What Shall I Do Now, Mother?" Elizabeth Williamson With illustration by the author F your child is recovering from an illness or has a cold and has to stay in bed, he will need something to do. He will be much happier if he is occupied, and if he is happy, you will be happy, too, and the affairs of the household will run more smoothly. Mother must be a nurse; she must keep her child physically comfortable and entertained, as well. She may also be the housekeeper and she will be responsible for the welfare of the other members of the family at th same time.: il The wise and thoughtful homemaker will find many ways to help solve her problems when there is illness in the home. Schedules work in hospitals, and many mothers in their homes have found that a general plan enables them to accomplish more work and also helps them to secure more rest than might be possible otherwise. However, all mothers know that they must adjust even the best schedule to fit the particular needs of their own families. In many cases, the mother must prepare the breakfast, pack the lunches, help other children get ready for school, and care for a baby, before she can finally turn her undivided attention to the child who must remain in bed. When mother is the nurse, and ready to give the child his bath, she will find that "animal" soap and bright-colored towels add to the interest of the bath. The frequent Page 754 changing of pajamas or nightgowns gives added interest. Gay printed flannelette will prove a favorite with the child, and material designed in bird patterns, or lambs, flowers, or fruit, will-also have great appeal. Attractively. Packaged cold creams and. Bath powders will help to lighten the monotony of the days for the bedridden child. Immediately after the bath has been given is a good time to change the bed linen. If the child must remain in bed, it is helpful to move him to one side of the bed and roll up the soiled sheet close to his back. Then tuck in the fresh sheet, folding the surplus down the center of the bed. The child is then rolled onto the clean side of the bed; the soiled sheet is withdrawn, and the clean one tucked in place. Two or three small pillows with bright-colored cases will delight the child, and he will enjoy placing them where they will give him the most comfort, When the child sits up in bed to eat his breakfast, a wedge-shaped pillow will give him good support. However, a little stool or a small chair with a pillow against it, will make a substitute back rest. A bed table or four-legged tray (one may be fashioned out of a pasteboard carton) is almost a necessity for serving meals, and it is useful, also, when the child is reading, drawing, or playing games. Bright-colored cloths and napkins add to the beauty and interest of the "WHAT SHALL I DO NOW, MOTHER?" tray. Paper napkins and cloth can be used, or the gay new plastic materials can be made into covers for the tray. These sets might be varied for each day, or even for different meals. Dishes with colorful and interesting designs will make your child happy. Let the little cream pitcher and the cereal dish, the plate, and the drinking glass be changed from time to time. The element of surprise is good for children. A fresh bouquet, a little figurine (a gay rooster, a little dog, a lamb) will delight your small patient. The busy mother may find it necessary to leave her child alone for certain intervals, especially during the morning hours. If the child understands the necessity of this procedure, he will be co-operative, and 755 he may even find pleasure in being left to his own devices. Much depends upon the attitude the mother takes toward her child and his illness. It is helpful for the mother to be outwardly calm and cheerful. She should realize that a large part of the healing process may be dependent upon her attitude and that of the family. Cheerfulness, courage, faith, are the "soul medicines" for daily use. If the child is well enough, he might enjoy some of the following activities: Jig-saw puzzles Paper dolls Pictures to cut from old magazines, such as animals, airplanes, flowers, food, fruits, etc. Scrapbook, in which to paste cut-out pictures. Arranging rooms in empty boxes, using spools, small boxes, bits of cloth for furniture; cut small dolls for the occupants Drawing, coloring, painting Simple sewing, knitting, crocheting It will help to relieve the day's monotony to serve fruit juices, milk, water, and other fluids in different types and styles of glasses. In one instance where the taking of fluid was essential, a child was allowed to drop a penny in his bank after each glassful. The lunch can be made attractive by varying the linen and the dishes, as was suggested for the breakfast tray. Elements of the unusual and the unexpected might be utilized by bringing to the bedside a tray of various kinds of fruit or a tray of different kinds of bread or rolls. Sandwiches can be cut in the shape of stars, crescents, animals, etc. Warm foods can be brought to the bed in covered, individual casseroles. The time spent by the child in rest periods and sleeping will leave the mother free to devote to the activities of keeping her household in order and for preparing the evening meal for the family. Perhaps, in the late afternoon, the mother, father, or the other children can play some games with the bedridden child, if his physical condition permits this much activity. Some simple game will be most enjoyed. "The Postman," an example of a guessing game, is played as follows: Question: "Is it a girl?" Answer: "No." Question: "Is it a boy?" Answer: "No." Question: ''Is it a woman?" Answer: "No." Question: "Is it a man?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Does he live in our town?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Do I know him?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Did I see him today?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Does he wear a gray suit?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Is it our postman?" Answer: "Yes." This game can be played with birds, flowers, buildings, cities, countries, or states for the subject material. A child who does not have enough energy to play a game will sometimes enjoy having some member of the family read to him. The reading might include poems, stories, or letters. Selections from the New Testament will appeal to older children. Simply told Bible stories will be of interest to even small children. Occasionally, the child will take delight in hearing some appropriate music over the radio or he may be entertained by phonograph records of children's music. Storytime, just before a child goes to sleep in the evening, is a ritual in many families, and the child who is ill will not want to be neglected in this respect. Illness and convalescence are usually trying periods both for the one who is ill and for the mother whose responsibilities and worries are greatly increased thereby. It is well to remember that discipline is even more important in times of illness than it is when the child is well. The mother must be considerate and kind, and vet must be firm in maintaining as near normal behavior habits as possible. It is surprising how much a planned schedule will help to make this possible and_ to make the days pass smoothly and pleasantly.