Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Canadian Mission. The Relief Society of the Winnpeg branch, a picture of which appears herewith, has an alert and active group of women as members. This little organization with a membership of 25 has furnished a sacrament set and assisted the branch in improving the baptismal font. The women purchased linoleum, curtains, and a small organ, to furnish the Relief Society room. In confomnity with the general plan, the second meeting of the month is a work and business sess'on. In order that the women may have an opportunity for a social hour, they bring to this meeting a luncheon which they enjoy after the meeting. In the social chat, gossip is not permitted. The president frowns on anything that approaches personalities. THE WINNIPEG RELIEF SOCIETY The Hamilton conference has three Relief Society organizations. The Hamilton Relief Society was organized three yéars ago with a membership of 6, and there are now 20 enrolled members. The Relief Society of this branch is always loyal to the missionaries. They have furnished the lady missionaries with dishes for their housekeep'ng rooms. The Brantford and Preston Relief Societies, although small, have been act: ve in the various phases of the work of the organization. In Toronto, where there are two organizations, the work has  been progressing satisfactorily. The Toronto Relief Society has the largest membership in the mission. A considerable amount of charity work has been done, and: during the summer the Relief Society has held meetings in the homes of those who were unable to attend.. In Ottawa, the cap: tal of the Dominion, there is now a nucleus for a Relief Society organization. Although not organized, the werk has been carried on during the year under the direction of the missionaries. Weekly meetings have been held and the outlined lessons have been presented. Assistance has been rendered to some of the needy fam/lies in Ottawa, by the Relief Society, including the distribution of more than one hundred articles of clothing. Malad Stake. The annual teachers' convention was held in the Malad First ward tabernacle on July 8, 1922. The visit of President Clarissa S. Williams was appreciated by all the members of the Relief Society. In her address she gave many valuable instructions and inspired the women to a greater love and interest in their work. The Washakie ward of the Malad stake held their Rel'ef 'Society conference early in August. With the exception of the bishop and his wife who is president of the Relief Society, the members of the ward are Lamanites. These Lamanite sisters are very energetic in their work and very considerate of one another in time of sickness. They are regular in their attendance at meciings, and they contr: bute willingly to the Relief Society cause. At their conference wonderful testimonies were borne, and several beautiful musical number were rendered, both in English and in their native tongue. The closing song, ""We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," sung in English, by four Lamanite women, was particularly pleasing. Twin Falls Stake. The Relief Society organizations in the stake have held weekly meetings, with the exception of one ward which has met twice a month. Although the stake is one of the smallest, there is an earnest and progressive sp: rit ever present among the women, A conference of the Twin Falls stake Relief Society was held in July. One of the features of the program was a demonstration of the right and wrong way of teaching. Following the afternoon session, an outdoor luncheon was enjoyed by the members present. In the remote scattered district of Roseworth, in Twin Falls stake, where the only center is two school rooms and a small store, the women have been recently organized for Relief Society work. This terr: tory is of local historical interest, for it is the place where of group of Brooklyn city-bred people located, but the settlement  dwindled away because the city folk became discouraged with the pioneer farm life. In order to reach Roseworth, a dugway more than two miles long, with a high towering rock on one side, and a precipice on the other, must be crossed. South African Mission. Four Relief Societies have been organized recently in the South African mission. These are the first Relief Society organizations to be effected in this mission. Mrs. Magdalen Sessions, in a letter to the Relief Society office, reports that she has just returned from a visit to the "up country" branches of this mission. She accompanied her husband, J. Wyley Sessions, who is president of this mission, on this trip. In her letter she states: "Since the first of January, 1922, we have been enjoying a thriving' organization at Cape Town, which seems to be succeeding in every way. The enrollment and attendance are gradually increasing. Regular meetings are being held and we are following as nearly as possible the outlined lessons. A system of Relief Society ward teaching is being carried out which is accomplishing much good by eliminating a great deal of misunderstanding and backwardness that existed among new members of the Church. We are studying the regular theological lessons, as published in the Magazine, once a month, and meeting in sewing meeting once a month. We also rendered some assistance to many families in distress. We had to devise some way of earning money, since gifts by contribution would be asking too much of most of our members who themselves are having! To struggle hard for a respectable living during these difficult times. I must tell you of our little scheme for raising money, for it is such a success. We hold a cooked food sale the first Thursday evening of each month after the Bible class. The members of the Society bring the cooked foods which are supposed to be practical and substantial, such as bread, relishes, meats, etc. The food is sold in quantities large enough to supply a family. Those who bring food inclose a slip of paper giving the entire cost of ingredients, and the food is sold at a higher figure so as to make a profit. The price is never more than the shop price. The cost of materials is returned to the maker; the Relief Society takes only the profit. We cannot supply the demand and the entire stock is disposed of in less than half an hour. The chief reason for the great success of the project is that most people here buy all breads, cakes, jams, pickles, etc., ready prepared. Very little cooking is done in the home. "While on the trip we organized a Relief Society at Johannesburg, Kimberley and Bloemfontein. The women seemed very anxious to meet regularly once a month and study definite work. NOTES FROM THE FIELD §93 "The Johannesburg branch meets twice a month and they alternate the lesson work with a sewing class. The meetings are held at the homes of members.: "At Kimberley we met an interesting situation. The women expressed a desire to learn more about genealogy. It was a surprise to me for it had not occurred to me to suggest the subject. Some of the women have already done considerable work and we have a brother in the mission who will be assigned to this work who will assist us. This brother is devoting all his spare time to genealogical research, and has rendered valuable service to people in Zion, and I know he will cooperate with us. "The Bloemfontein branch is composed mostly of Dutch speaking sisters, but they are delighted to know that they can belong to the Latter-day Saint women's organization. They will read such Church works and articles as can be provided in their language. Bloemfontein is almost entirely a Dutch speaking city. "I am inclosing a list of our officers: Johannesburg branch, Cecelia H. Brummer, president; Lizzie P. Muir, counselor and teacher; Cecelia Lowe, secretary and treasurer. Kimberley branch, Louisa VanWinkle, president; T. Clark, counselor; Aletta Campbell, secretary Bloemfontein branch, Magdalen Deady, president; Hester M. P. Grobbelaar, counselor and secretary. Cape Town branch, Florence Jenkin, president, Mary Stanley and Ruth Walsh, counselors; Beatrice Julian, secretary; Lillian Perrine, assistant secretary and treasurer." Tooele Stake. During the early summer months ward Relief Society conferences were held in the various wards. Interesting reports were submitted of the activities. One small ward had furnished rags and made more than eighty yards of carpet for their meetinghouse. Two wards had assisted materially in preparing lunches for school children during the winter months. Another ward reported that the time of several of their meetings was spent. After the business had been accomplished, in sewing for the mothers of small children who needed such help. One ward devoted the summer months to sewing in preparation for a bazaar to be held in the early fall. Recently a Relief Society has been organized in Ophir, which is a small mining town. Liberty Stake. On August 9, a program was given under the direction of the Homebound Committee of the Liberty stake Relief Society Board, at the Salt Lake County Infirmary. There were present fifty-five inmates of the Home, and their appreciation was expressed in smiles, tears, and hand-clapping. Similar meetings are  held at the County Infirmary the first Monday of every month, by the members of the Homebound Department of Liberty stake Relief Society. This division of stake work now having a working corps of twenty-five members, who visit each month the homebound members of the stake, the inmates of the Sarah Daft Home, and the County Infirmary, had its inception in 1914. Not until 1917, however, was the department organized, when, under President Lottie Paul Baxter, a chairman and secretary were set apart and fifteen sisters called to act as visitors. An average of three meetings a year were held at the County Infirmary. President Myrtle D. Shurtliff attended one of these meetings at the Infirmary, soon after taking up her duties as stake president, and was assured that this serv: ce was appreciated by the inmates, and so she arranged for meetings to be held there the first Monday of every month. These elderly people enjoy the efforts of the stake Relief Society workers and they cordially invite the visitors to "come again, come every week." Four women visit the infirmary each month, spending from six to ten hours singing, playing, and visiting with the aged men and women. Between sixty and one hundred hours are spent each month by twenty-one of the workers, visiting from fifty to seventy homebound families in the stake, A regular fund is maintained by one dollar a year from each ward and one dollar from the stake presidency. From this fund flowers, fruit and necessities are purchased to cheer and brighten the lives of the sick and needy. Mexican, Mission. According to a report received from Mrs. R. L. Pratt, president of the Relief Society of the Mexican mission, the various organizations are progressing nicely. Although the organizations are small there are now active branches of the Relief Society in Fl Paso, Texas; Manassa, Colorado; Mesa, Arizona; Brownsville, Texas; Atlautla, Mexico, Cuautla Morelos, Mexico; San Pedro Martir, Mexico; Tecalo, Mexico; and San Marcos Tula, Hidalgo, Mexico. These societies are very helpful to the missionary work, in assisting to teach the gospel to the Latter-day Saint sisters, and also to those not of our faith. In El Paso, about a third of those who attend are non-'"Mormons" but all take an interest in the lessons and also in the sewing meetings that are held once a month. During President Pratt's recent visit to the Republic of Mexico a Relief Society organization was effected at San Marcos Tula, in the state of Hidalgo, with Jesusita Monroy as president, Dolores Sanchez, first counselor, and Guadalupe Hernandez de Monroy, second counselor.  A visit was also paid to the Relief Society at San Pedro Martir, and it was found that the sisters were taking a keen interest in the work, some of them walking a distance of about two miles, barefooted, to attend their meet'ngs They had in their treasury a balance of about fourteen pesos ($7 American money) after having assisted in building a meetinghouse and buying lighting fixtures. Notwithstanding the fact that during the revolution they were driven from their homes, lost their household possessions and returned after the war in a state of poverty, and are even at this time very poor, they are accomplishing many things. Their work denotes a remarkable degree of faith and integrity. Wayne Stake. The Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of Loa ward of Wayne stake own a plot of ground. The members of the two associations, in consultation with the bishop, decided to convert the lot into a memorial park in honor of Harold Brown, the only soldier from Loa who lost his life in the World War. The citizens of Loa planted about 125 trees, and on May 30,1921, this grove was dedicated and given the name of Harold Brown Park. Every one in Loa participated in some way in preparing the grove or in arranging for the services. Sevier Stake. A very enjoyable and profitable Relief Society stake conference was held in August of this year. This year the conference was held at the Koosharem ward, which is a picturesque village way up in the tops of the mountains. The Relief Society met conjointly with the Sunday School for the morning session where the topic of "Moral Leadership in the Home" was discussed. The ward hospitably entertained the visitors during the day, serving an elaborate luncheon at noon. In the afternoon, members of the priesthood and the stake Relief Society board members gave invigorating and inspiring talks. Tintic Stake. The Tintic stake Relief Society conducted a temple excursion on September 6, to the Salt Lake temple. Forty-four days charity work was done, and $148 contributed to this work. At the Relief Society conferences which have been held in each of the five wards and one branch of the stake, an average attendance of 80% of the officers was attained. EDITORIAL  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Business Manager - - - - - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager - -Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop' 's 'Building, Salt Lake City, Utah  Vol. IX NOVEMBER, 1922 No. 11 SPIRITUAL STATUS OF OUR PRESENT-DAY WORLD Matthew Arnold in his SYanzas from the Grand Chartreuse, speaks of himself as "wandering between two worlds, one dead, the other powerless to be born." These lines rather aptly describe the spiritual condition that one meets up with not infrequently in the world today. This is not a time of many ideals; life has a tendency to run on a dead level, except for the freakish and abnormal, which appears to be considerably in the limelight. Some people feel that this upset condition of the world is the herald of a better day, the dark hour before the dawn, and yet others think it is as typical of a reconstruction period. The war seems to have robbed the world of much of its joy. The glory of the past fails to make appeal, and the fear of the future breeds restlessness and dissatisfaction. At the moment, such a world as meets the craving of the human soul seems powerless to be born. Many charge that the crass materialism of the age has already greatly interfered with the spiritual and intellectual progress of the world, and is at present threatening civilization. Professor Lovett, of the University of Chicago, in a recent essay on education, writes: "It is recognized today that progress in natural science has far outrun that in politics, social life, culture; therein lies the tragedy of the world. A few men of science have a knowledge of the means by which the human race can, be destroyed in a  brief space?and no statesmen, philosophers, or apostles of culture have the power to persuade the race not to permit it to be done." In an article by Herman Hesse, of recent date, appearing in the English Review, is the following statement: "Europe wants rest?Europe wants to be recreated, reborn." Everywhere we hear the call for a leadership that can give to society a social and spiritual rebirth. These quotations will give the reader an idea of some of the things men and women are thinking at this present day. Are we face to face with a condition where there is more fear in the world than hope? If so, are we not witnessing a fulfilment of the prophecy, "Men's hearts shall fail them for fear?" Against this background of gloom the Latter-day Saint must have comfort and reassurance in two thoughts: First, that God's ways and man's ways are at variance. On the very eve of the great conflagration, many of the worldly wise were insisting that war on a large scale could not again occur; now there are people who would have us believe that the human race is deteriorating so rapidly that decay and destruction are the only alternatives. We do not believe such things; we know that Zion shall be built on this continent, the earth be renewed, and made a fit abode for Christ. To be sure, individuals and groups of people, who live for the material interest of life apart from the spiritual, will in time be overcome. The scripture is full of warning and of condemnation of such living. The classic instance is that of Christ. When Satan appeared at the conclusion of the Master's long fast, the evil one tempted him by saying, "If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread," to which suggestion Christ replied, "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." A second fear, frequently voiced, is that the world has moved on at such rapid paces that religion is outworn and unable to cope with every-day problems. Such a belief may find lodgment in the minds of some religionists, and there may be grounds for such concern; but surely no such thought can enter the mind of a Latter-day Saint, for the gospel came as a setting to our presentday civilization, nearly all of the great inventions and discoveries having come into being since its restoration. Again, the very philosophy upon which the Church is based, that of continuous revelation, provides for growth and changing scenes. There is no danger of the gospel's becoming antiquated, because the gospel is the synonym of truth, and "Truth," said the old philosopher, "is ever new." No one ever tires of the sun, no one ever thinks it is going out,'no one doubts its power to flood the earth with light. So it  is with truth; truth that may be added upon by continual revelation; it is equal to every and any demand that may be made upon it. In the light of such belief and knowledge, surely the course of the Latter-day Saint is clear: to live so near to God that we may be sure of his constant guidance individually, and to support and uphold his authority placed on earth to reveal his mind and will unto the children of men. The Allied forces banded together to prevent the enemy from destroying the civilization of the world; Latter-day Saints can do no less than to stand together to prevent those who are full of doubt and unbelief from making inroads on the spiritual life. "They shall not pass," should be the watchword. The general Federation of Women's Clubs has taken up the problem of the Indian, and will not lay down on the task. The aim of the federation is to work out a simple basic policy, aimed primarily at the improvement of the Indians' economic condition. It hopes to cooperate with the government in a sustained effort toward keeping for the Indians the land which they still possess, and getting back for them some of the land of which they have been illegally dispossessed, and toward fostering the Indian arts and crafts.