IS LIFE WORTH LIVING By Miriam C. Bitner

Is life worth living? I asked a friend. Weary of toil and strife. He answered me thus: It will all depend On what you demand of life.

If pleasure is all you would have. Oh then, Life isn't worth living at all, For you will find at life's great end That pleasure is wormwood and gall.

If the gaining of riches great is your aim 'Tis a selfish game you play, And you may find as others have found, That riches will melt away.

If living the life of sin is your wish You are treading a dangerous path, For he who is master of all hath said: That the wages of sin is death.

But if you are living the best you can As you tread life's uphill road; If you are helping your fellow man And leading his steps to God;

If you go with a smile instead of a frown As you work to this great end, Of preparing yourself for eternity Then life is worth living, my friend.

TOTEM POLES AT THE ENTRANCE TO LOVER'S LANE MERRILL MONUMENT AND INDIAN CHILDREN

The Relief Society Magazine Vou. XXIII SEPTEMBER, 1936 No. 9 Sitka, the Enchanted City By Harrison R. Merrill T was on the longest day in the year and, I believe. The sunniest, that I first saw Sitka, the Enchanted City, the "Portal to Romance." On that day as we steamed down Whitestone Narrows, the sun glorifying the wooded islands and the cellophane waters of Sitka Sound, I could understand the feeling of the sailor who, watching a sunset on the Sound from a high point, exclaimed: "I never knew what was meant by the "Glory of God" until I saw the sun go down from the top of Sitka's Russian Hill." We had been for several hours steaming through Peril Strait when gradually the waterway widened and islands appeared as if floating upon the cellophane sea, a Xochimilco of the North. Between these islands were glassy vistas stretching away to the blue sky or to the feet of mighty mountains around whose summits were circlets of clouds like furs of ermine or polar bear. At last off to our right, Mount Edgecumbe arose from the sea, the Fujiama of Alaska, and we knew that the old Russian capital was close. It was not long after sighting Mount Edgecumbe that we rounded a cape and beheld before us the gleaming buildings of old Sitka lined up along the Sound and running back a little way up the slopes of the encircling mountains. As we drew up to the Fish Dock, I was eager to touch foot upon the land and feel the thrill of stepping upon the streets of what was once an American capital of a foreign country. Slim fishing boats rocked at peace in the harbor reminding one of old tales of whalers and hardy fishermen who had braved the dangers of the wild Pacific. Sitka is rapidly becoming Americanized. As the floods of tourists flow over its board streets and along its enchanted pathways, it will gradually become just another northern city. Now, however, many of the memories of the Russian occupation remain as do the marks of the native Indians who inhabited the coast long before Alexander Baranof, the little iron manager of the Russian company, came to America back in 1799. Sitka Sound has changed not at all in the past one hundred thirtyodd years, and certain landmarks have changed little since the Russians established a fort on the present site of Sitka about 1804, after their first settlement at Old Fort Sitka had been destroyed by the Indians. Baranof named the new town Archangel Gabriel and erected his castle upon the bluff upon which had 540 stood an Indian stronghold. From that castle made of logs overlooking the Sound he ruled the Russian colonies in America until he was recalled in 1818. The name New Archangel Gabriel was gradually changed to Sitka, the name of an Indian tribe that lived in the vicinity. Under the rule of the Russians the city grew and prospered becoming a metropolis of the northwestern coast of America. ITKA, in those days, was not a woman's town, although a few women horse-backed across Siberia and sailed over Bering Sea in order to accompany their husbands to this new land. "We fear neither God, man, or the Devil," boasted the Russian trappers when Baranof landed. "'I,' answered the quiet level-eyed Baranof, 'combine that trinity in myself.' And single-handed he began to put the fear of all three, not only in his rivals, but also in his subordinates." Quoted from Barrett Willoughby in "Sitka Portal to Romance." A lonely and half-savage country ruled by such a man would not be a lady's natural habitat and yet it is said that the Russians had some beautiful parties and lived an interesting social life. After Baranof's time more women came, among them the beautiful young princess Aglaida Ivanovna Maksoutova, wife of a Russian captain. She died in her twenty-eighth year in a room in Baranof castle and was buried in the old cemetery at Sitka. Her husband later became Governor of Alaska under Russian rule and was in charge when the transfer was made to the United States in 1867. It is said that a costly stone was carried across Siberia and the sea to mark the grave of the beautiful princess but that after the United States RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE withdrew her troops the Indians defaced the stone and carried it away. Later, it is said, a Lieutenant in the United States' Marine Service sought out the unmarked grave and set up the present stone upon which are these words: Here rests the body of Princess Aglaida Ivanovna Maksoutova Wife of a Captain of 2nd rank Born in the year 1834 Died Dec. 18th, 1862- There are old tales of tender romances and intrigues floating around Sitka, and as one stands and gazes at the old, old church and the old, old "Governor's Walk,' now Lincoln Street, he can dream them all over again. HE castle and the Princess are gone as are Baranof and the Russian governors who succeeded him in 1818, but history and tradition are peculiar; they cling to old cities and to old shrines like ivy to CHURCH OF ST.