MICHAELS BUILT IN 1817 SITKA THE ENCHANTED CITY a wall. As we strolled up the board walk to the main street of the town on that long day in June, the shadows of the past were thick around us making Sitka no mere city of the present, but a city of the romantic past—a City of Enchantment. The little Russian church now, as ever, dominates the city. Standing in the middle of the main thoroughfare, it acts as a breaker for the tides of tourists who, whenever a ship lands, pour up the little street. Usually they scatter through the curio stores lining the street, into the Post Office, the picture studios, and down the side streets to the shore where the houses grace the small islands reached by long, lumber drives laid on pilings. But a goodly number always enter the church of St. Michael to see the treasures of the years which have been garnered there. When the Russians first colonized America they had no church in this land, but they looked forward to the time when a father would come over the sea to care for the flock and to establish a place of worship. At last their prayers seemed about to be answered. They learned that a ship, the "Neva," was rounding the Horn on a world cruise to bring them a shepherd and various religious robes, pictures, and images dear to the Russian heart. It was in consternation, therefore, that on a stormy day in 1813 they saw a row-boat limping into the harbor manned by a few half-dead sailors who told them the sad story of the foundering of the little ship and the loss of the priest and most of those on board just when their goal was almost in sight. Baranof searched the coast, but few survivors were found; however, up from the sea, as if it had been miraculously preserved, came a precious silver image of St. Michael the Archangel. Baranof immediately set 541 about building a church. In 1817 it was finished, the battered image of St. Michael finding haven in its sacred precincts. It is there today revered by priests, natives, and tourists alike and along with it are almost countless other precious and sacred works of art. It is reported that J. P. Morgan once offered $25,000.00 for a single painting and was refused. We paused before the church. Here was tradition embodied. Here was history written in wood and bronze and old lace and silver. FROM the church, Mrs. Merrill and I strolled down a side street and soon found ourselves in front of a lovely home built upon one of the innumerable tiny islands in the Sound. It had its shrubbery and its flowers, the climate being in range about like that of Washington, D. C. It also had its touch of modernity—a garage reached by a plank roadway over the water. We returned to St. Michael's and took the walk to the right along the shore—the route often taken by Baranof and his Russian companions of a century ago as well! As by his hundreds of successors. This path led to the park and Lover's Lane, famous throughout the entire Northwest. As we walked along we saw a small group of young. People from the ship encircling a large flat stone. Upon our appreach they told us that it is the Blarney Stone of Sitka and that the tradition is if one will walk around it three times and then kiss its smooth surface, he will surely have speech and voice that will charm the birds from the trees. Furthermore, his wishes will come true. We obeyed, making the trip around the stone in single-file as two residents of Sitka stood by and watched the ° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE KISSING THE BLARNEY STONE ceremony, a smile of good-fellowship upon their faces. ESUMING our walk, we soon passed the Indian school and Museum and found ourselves approaching the park and the entrance to Lover's Lane. No automobile has ever yet desecrated the grove. Sitka has kept the place sacred to those who love the woods and find in their "venerable forms" inspiration and solace. At the entrance to the park are some magnificent totem poles placed there: by one who loved the North in its natural form—a Mr. Merrill, known in the region as the "Father of Pictures." This artist, a bird and nature-lover, according to a monument erected at the entrance to the park by an appreciative citizenry, died in 1932. I was sorry I had not gone sooner to this capital of the North, for the man had my name and I fancied, from pictures of him I had seen, a family resemblance. Ig was now late evening—it would have been pitch dark in Utah— but the sun was still slanting through the trees as we entered upon our quest for romance in Lover's Lane. This lane leads through the primeval forest between the boles of the trees of which glimpses of the glistening sound could be had. The ground was carpeted with mosses and was like velvet to our feet and like a delicate green rug to our eyes. We walked along reverently here, for the ghosts of thousands of lovers seemed to be with us in the dim woods—ghosts of Indians, Russians, Aleuts, Scandinavians, Englishmen, Spaniards, Americans. Occasionally we would come to a huge and high totem pole standing like an Indian guard of the distant past among the trees where it had been artistically placed by "The Father of Pictures." At last the lane opened up and we found ourselves beside the replica of a Russian block house gazing out SITKA THE ENCHANTED CITY upon the glistening Sound. Here truly was loveliness spread before us like a banquet. With the shadows deepening, we plunged back into the forest following another trail or the continuation of the same trail which had swerved here and turned back another way. We had gone but a short distance when we came upon a little circular clearing around which in solemn council stood several huge totem poles, their weird eyes gazing questioningly down at us from their forty feet as if we were trespassing upon sacred, native ground. We felt almost as if we should remove ourshoes and tread softly in the transparent-green shadows through which only occasionally now long, level lances of sunlight were thrust. The trail now followed a little creek and we soon came to a sort of suspension bridge beyond which, we were told by a sign, an auto road was to be found. At the end of the bridge, standing guard over the ancient forest trails was a most imposing totem pole with the head of a white man 543 incongruously pictured on its top. From this bridge we soon found our way back to the entrance to the park and to the fading sunlight. Y the time we had reached the city, the sun had left the Sound and was gilding only the peaks beyond. As I walked alone down the board road to the dock where the "S. S. Northwestern" lay, (Mrs. Merrill and the others having remained in the city to make last moment purchases) a great hush—an evening hush—was upon everything. The waves had now changed to mobile glass, transparent and yet having a color that made them look fragile and likely to break into pieces at a touch. A moon had been suspended in the deepening sky, a crescent of loveliness. The mountains had become shadowy tepees of the gods— calm, eternal, possessed of a great and an abiding peace. I stopped and looked back at the little church that has watched beside the sea for more than a hundred years and up to the peaks which were there when the Russians first came LOOKING ACROSS SITKA SOUND 544 to Sitka—Archangel Gabriel—and I thought how transitory is man; how eternal is the earth; how eloquent of God are sea and mountain peak. A blast from the ship's whistle suddenly shattered the tremendous silence. She was ready to leave port. I was glad, for I wished to remember Sitka, the beautiful, peaceful but visible there under the darkening peaks a pearl in a crystal of silver and blue. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE As we sailed south, the mighty Pacific washing against our bows and lifting us gaily and swinging us in long, easy arcs, the moon, somehow, found a place above the glistening white byow of Mount Edgecumbe and hung there in its deepening field of blue like a crescent of promise. The shadows grew long and deep; it was with a sigh that we left old Sitka behind in its setting of emerald and turquoise—the City of Enchantment.