Notes from the Field Julia A. F, Lund—General Secretary WEST JORDAN RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD West Jordan Stake "THE above picture represents one of our very excellent Stake Boards—West Jordan. The record of achievements of this fine Stake is one of the bright pages in Relief Society history. There will always be a note of sadness in contemplating the members of the Board as we recall the fact that Sister Delila Freeman passed away shortly after this picture was taken. Sister Freeman is the first member in the first row reading from left to right. She was the musical director of the West Jordan Stake, the Assistant Secretary and the Magazine representative. Being so versatile in her talents her loss is a very great one to the Stake, and the General Board condoles with Sister Pixton and the other members of the Board, as well as with Sister Freeman's family. Shelley Stake | NE of the very delightful entertainments of the Shelley Stake held before closing in the Spring of 1936 was when the Shelley Stake Board entertained the Ward Relief Society Officers and Class Leaders at a luncheon. This pleasant event was held in the Stake Tabernacle. During the entertainment reports of the recent conference held in Salt Lake City were given by the visiting members of the Stake Board. The scheme of gold and blue was carried out in the table decorations and in the favors. Very clever little programs in blue with yellow NOTES FROM THE FIELD flowers were souvenirs of the happy occasion. The guests were seated at three tables each of which was centered with a silver and blue basket of daffodils and blue candles in silver holders. The songs sang upon 579 the occasion by the Relief Society choir were composed for the most part by Relief Society women themselves. It was a never-to-be-forgotten event attended by about eighty enthusiastic workers. DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Danish Mission - HE above picture represents the sisters of the Danish Mission Relief Society Board. These enterprising women are responsible for the conduct of the work throughout the Mission, and have been most enthusiastic in following as closely as possible the activities of the organization. They have prepared themselves some of the lessons which have been found desirable in their Mission, and are very happy in all branches of the work. The President writes: "There is no greater joy than that which comes from service—service to our fellowmen and to our Father in Heaven. We are all His children, and through service we can show our love for Him and for one another."" The activities of the Relief Society have done much to do away with the prejudice against the Church and the sisters are received very kindly by most of the people whom they contact. Norwegian Mission "THE sisters of the far away Mission, Norway, certainly appreciate the organization, and are trying to show their appreciation for the Relief Society by participating in all of its activity. Most of the Societies of Norway celebrated the seventeenth of March by presenting the playlet "The Gate Beautiful," 580 which was translated into Norwegian, and the pictures show the result of their efforts. The Relief Society Mission President has been very active in visiting the organizaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tions, even in remote points, and the sisters are extremely anxious to do all they can to cooperate with the great program which is world-wide in its scope. RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION, TRONDHEIM Sacramento Stake ON Sunday, November 4, 1934, the Sacramento Stake was organized, and the Relief Society came into existence. Sister Olive O. Lindblad was sustained as President, and a fully organized board assumed their duties in humility and with a prayer for strength and wisdom commensurate with the responsibility entailed. Sister Lindblad held the Presidency until it was necessary for her to move from the Stake, when Sister Edith D. Sellers was appoint- NOTES FROM THE FIELD ed to take her place. This new Stake has always enjoyed very capable leadership. The first Relief Society convention held was Anniversary Day, and was most successful, at which time each Ward participated in the program. The first Relief Society exhibit was held in May, and each Ward participated in this activity. People were amazed at the number of articles displayed. During the exhibition a delightful musical program was rendered. This was followed by a reception and luncheon, where more than two hundred and fifty guests participated. During the year each Ward held a Relief Society Conference, the program of which has been to effectively por- 581 tray the work and varied program of the Relief Society in its human service. The monthly Union Meetings have been well attended, and serve as an excellent medium in bringing the Stake and Ward members into close contact thereby building up a strong Stake Relief Society spirit. During the Summer two Stake picnics have been held, and special attention has been given to those who live at some distance from the Ward centers. On September 29, 1935, the Stake Relief Society Conference was held. If a good beginning ensures a successful accomplishment certainly this Stake has much to hope for the future.