The Lure of Something Green By Mabel S. Harmer OR years I have tried to alibi myself out of keeping house plants. My south windows are inadequate to care for many plants. And I always have a guilty conscience when I deprive them of sufficient sunshine by putting them anywhere else. If I go away for a vacation they are harder to dispose of than either the canary or the children and I usually end up by bribing some kind neighbor to come in and give them an occasional drink and then I worry all the time as to whether she has remembered to lock the back door after her or if I shall come home and find all the silverware missing. What with babies, housework and itinerant scribbling, I really haven't time to take care of them properly, nevertheless, I simply cannot resist the lure of something green. Patricia has reached the dignity of six years and the first reader and now only once in a great while sends my favorite plant crashing to thie floor, but Alan will shortly be walking and I know with an awful certainty that he will exhibit the saime fondness for examining the soil in my flower pots that his older brothers and sisters have done with the same dire results to my carpets. And still I persist in putting things in pots or tin cans as the case may be and feeling an exaggerated sense of pride when they grow into presentable looking plants. Lately I have read that "houseplants are very essential units in modern home decoration" and since then I feel that my efforts are entirely justified. Nevertheless, I have a great deal of respect for the person strong minded enough to say, "No, I won't be bothered with house plants." There have been times when I have made resolutions to that effect myself but I have never kept them going. Just when things were going along nicely some kind soul was sure to present me with something or other in a pot and as long as I had one to care for I felt that I might as well have others and so the whole story would begin all over again. But then, there is probably that in all of us that sooner or later longs for the sight of something green and growing in the house. The difficulty, of course, is to keep it green and growing. Outdoor plants will, to some extent, shift for themselves but as soon as they are brought inside they depend upon you for water, for care and for the right amount of heat and sunshine. They are a tremendous responsibility. Having once taken them under your roof, they demand that you allow them to suffer no neglect. A GENERATION ago when steam heat was not so universally used and before fresh air was allowed generally to all rooms, house plants thrived wonderfully. They enjoy nothing better than a nice stuffy room where there is a lot of moisture to condense and run down the window pane. If one wishes to be very hospitable to plants, a home in a south window of a kitchen where there is a coal or electric range and where the air is moist from steam will be most appreciated. Unfortunately the kitchen isn't the place where one usually wants them nor can gas ranges be THE LURE OF SOMETHING GREEN tossed lightly aside for the benefit of the plants. Gas is the sworn enemy of the house plant and after that comes dryness of the air. The latter is easily overcome by merely keeping the earth in the pots watered. Plants, like people, breathe through their pores and the air in many homes is too dry for both of them. Some hot air furnaces have excellent humidifiers which helps to overcome this condition. Water pans kept on radiators will help to moisten the air to some extent. A better way to help the plants is to stand the pots in a shallow pan with about an inch of water in it, raising them on a layer of pebbles so that the water reaches only to the base of the pots. The constant evaporation will keep the air moist and the plants healthy. These pans need not be unsightly. A long narrow baking pan painted green is quite attractive or the flower pots may be placed in separate pottery bowls. When the air is moist, the plants will require less water for their roots. The expert can tell whether a plant needs watering by rapping on the pot with the knuckles; if it sends forth a ringing sound, the earth inside is dry. The inexperienced gardener, like myself, however, finds out by digging into the earth with her fingers. A plant that is flowering or making active growth needs more water than at other times. It is entirely possible to be too generous in this regard and give the plants more water than they require. One almost has to become acquainted with individual plants in order to learn their needs. If the leaves turn yellow and droop, too much water is being given. Even with water at their roots and 'water in the air, the plants are not yet satisfied. They like to have a good bath twice a week. It is best 551 to set them in a tub or deep sink and spray the leaves thoroughly on both sides with tepid water. Let the pots stand for about ten minutes in water nearly up to the rims so that the earth can become well saturated. Then take them out and drain them off, removing dead leaves and stems at the same time. The regular earthenware pot is not the best receptacle for a plant because it is porous and dries out very quickly. Tin cans are really preferable or old saucepans with the handles removed. Drainage holes must be provided, of course, and they should be painted in attractive colors. House plants soon become susceptible to drafts and cold air. The English Ivy will survive all sorts of weather out in the garden but once it has been taken under your kind protection in the house it will freeze if placed near an open window in zero weather. If it is necessary to open a window near where plants are kept, it is best to move them first to another part of the room. If the window is closed, a drawn shade will usually be protection enough for the plants but on very cold nights it is wise to use the extra precaution of placing several thicknesses of newspaper between the plants and the window. If the plant freezes in spite of all your precautions, move it to a cool place and let it stand for a few days without being watered. Then cut off all the shriveled leaves and stems. Even if the entire plant has to be cut away, it will usually grow again. A more disagreeable enemy to cope with than the cold is the army of small pests that seeks to find dwelling places in your plants. Aphids or green flies seem partial to many plants and then there is the horrid little white mealy bug that snuggles down into the hollows of 552 the stems. The aphids can be destroyed by spraying the plant frequently and thoroughly with soapy water followed by a clear water rinse. The mealy bugs have to be dislodged with a wooden sliver. Don't be too anxious to repot flowers. Unless a plant is very crowded it is best to leave it undisturbed. Instead of moving the entire plant just take out some of the top soil and replace with a fresh soil using a mixture of loam, leaf mold and sand. It is best to make any changes in the spring or early fall. Spring is also the best time to make cuttings or root divisions. Some plants, such as the geranium for instance, will give better results if fresh plants are started every year from the old ones. Perhaps you have wondered why the lovely plant which comes from the florist droops so quickly. This is because its growth has been forced in the greenhouse and all its strength used up. If it is a plant which will keep for another year it can be saved by cutting it back entirely after it is through blossoming and then allowing it to rest a few weeks without much water. Often fresh growth will start-again from the roots. If one does not care to go in very extensively for the raising of "proper" plants, there is something very fascinating about the process of taking a common vegetable or dull brown seed, putting it in soil or water and presently seeing a lovely green plant spring into life. Among the vegetables that lend themselves to gardening for beauty as well as utility are the carrot, beet, horse-radish and sweet potato. Each one of these will produce a plant worthy of a place in any living room. If your choice is one of the first three named, you cut away all but about one inch from the top of the root and place it in a dish filled with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fibre or pebbles and water. The carrot will provide a green fern-like plant, the beet will bring forth a glossy red and green foliage and the horse-radish will produce a tall, picturesque plant of vivid green. The sweet potato asks for nothing more than a bowl of water. It is best to use a small, fairly deep bowl. Toothpicks stuck in the sides of the potato and resting on the brim of the bowl will support the tuber so that it is half way in the water. Here again there will be a beautiful combination of red and green in the leaves and stems. The seed of an avacado will send forth leaves resembling those of a poinsetta when planted in a deep vase or a bottle of water. The seed stays at the top of the water. The seeds of gourds or of grapefruit will also make pretty growth. They require soil for their beds and respond gratefully to abundant water and sunshine. The woman who complains that "plants simply will not grow for me" usually just has another way of saying "I can't be bothered giving plants their proper care." She can still have something green around the house, however, by planting some vines. The English Ivy, for instance, will grow almost anywhere in the house and requires no care except a daily watering, which is little enough for any plant to ask. It is possible to create some very attractive effects by the use of vines. They can be placed at the top of the window on an especially built shelf and will form a most unusual and summery curtain. A trailing vine in a wall bracket is also delightfully effective. A clever new idea is embodied in the small white china figures, each with a receptacle for a tiny plant, © which can be purchased at the five and dime stores. Never have I seen THE LURE OF SOMETHING GREEN » anything more charming than the boy with the wheelbarrow containing one little violet plant. House plants, after all, are like children, music lessons and many 553 other worth while things. They are a lot of trouble and take quite a good deal of time but they repay many times over the efforts spent in their behalf.