Lesson Department (For First Week in November) THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson 2 CHRISTIANITY BEFORE THE CHRIST Helpful References In the Book of Mormon: I Nephi 10:1, 4-14, 22; 13:19-29; 17°15; II Nephi 25:26; Jacob 4:4-6: Mosiah 5:6-8; Alma 31:31-38; Ether 3:4-20. In the Doctrine and Covenants: 27: 11; 29:34-43; 107:1-4, 39-57: 84: 6-28. In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 5:5-15, 58, 59; 6:57-68; 7; 8:12- 30; Abraham 1:1-3, 31; 2:15. Smith: The Way to Perfection, Chapter 9. 1. In the previous lesson of this series we learned that Christ's ministry was foretold by the prophets One might surmise, without any knowledge of scripture, the need of knowing the reasons for His advent. It would be useless to predict the coming of a Savior if the plan of salvation was withheld from men. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches the somewhat unique, but nevertheless true, doctrine that Christianity—the Gospel, if you please—was taught from the earliest times, thousands of years before the Redeemer came in the flesh. Hence, the title of this lesson: Christianity Before The Christ. Many persons not of our faith may exclaim, "If the Gospel, as understood by you, was in the world before the advent of Christ, why does not the Bible indicate it? We hasten to say that it does in part. Unfortunately, for reasons to be considered, the Bible does not portray as clearly as we should desire, the point in question. Ina prophecy of Nephi the following remark is made: "Because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose that it contains all my words; neither need ye suppose that I have not caused more to be written." (II Nephi 29:10.) That statement is one key to the difficulty. Other revelations of the Lord, as: mplied above, are necessary to make up for the lack of clearness in the Bible record. An angel of the Lord on one occasion gave Nephi some information respecting a book to come in the latter days into the hands of the Gentiles. The book spoken of is our Bible. Nephi was informed that following the ministry of the Savior many parts of the Bible, originally plain and easy to understand, were taken therefrom. "For beheld, they have taken away from the gospel of the Lamb many parts which are plain and most precious; and also many covenants of the Lord have they taken away." (I Nephi 13: 26.) The implication is, of course, both the Old and New Testaments were similarly treated. The result, to use the words of the angel, was to "pervert the right ways of the Lord.. Blind the eyes and harden the hearts of the children of men." (Read carefully I Nephi 13:19-2°.) 2. Having indicated the reasons why our Bible has seemingly misled the world in a vital matter, we proceed to point out some contributions LESSON DEPARTMENT of modern revelation to the theme under consideration. When Adam, the Patriarch of the human race, was informed by an angel of God that the principle of sacrifice was "a similitude of' the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father," he received a fundamental Gospel principle. The divine messenger then proceeded to unfold other fundamental principles. "Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore." (Moses 5:8.) The sacred record adds the remarkable information that 'the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and Son, saying: 'IT am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed. And all mankind, even as many as will.' "' (Moses 5:9.) The doctrine of the resurrection was known to Adam, for he declared 'again in the flesh I shall see God." (Moses 5:10.) Adam and Eve, in a real sense, were the first missionaries. Many of their children departed from the ways of God and had to be called to repentance. (Moses 5:12-15; 6:57.) Father Adam, and doubtless manv of his children, received the ordinance of baptism for remission of their sins. (Moses 6:64-68.) Another early missionary was Enoch. Undoubtedly there was a church organization of some kind in his day. Because of the righteousness of the people over whom Enoch presided, they were translated. (Moses 7.) Noah, too, preached the Gospel to the inhabitants of the earth prior to the Deluge. (Moses 8:17-30.) 3. The Book of Abraham makes clear the fact that Abraham, the Father of the Faithful, was acquainted with the powers of the Priest- 587 hood and that he had a more or less successful Gospel ministry. "I became a rightful heir, a High Priest, holding the right belonging to the fathers." (Abraham 1:2.) When Abraham was commanded of the Lord to leave Haran and go to the land of Canaan, he did so, taking - with him some of his relatives, his property, "and the souls that we had won in Haran." (Abraham 2:15.) The quotation makes it certain that the souls of men were dear to his heart. What might be termed the "Church" records, fell into his hands. 'But the records of the fathers, even the patriarchs, concerning the right of Priesthood, the Lord, my God, preserved in mine own hands; therefore a knowledge of the beginning of the creation, and also of the planets, and of the stars, as they were made known unto the fathers, have I kept even unto this day." (Abraham 1:31.) 4. The Book of Mormon points out a Christian ministry before Christ came in the flesh. Jacob, writing for the benefit of those who should come after Him, declared: "For, for this intent have we written these things that they may know that we knew of Christ, and we had a hope of His glory many hundred years before His coming; and not only we ourselves had a hope of His glory, but also all the holy prophets which were before us. Behold, they believed in Christ and worshiped the Father in His name, and also we worship the Father in His name. And for this intent we keep the laws of Moses, it pointing our souls to him; and for this cause it is sanctified unto us for righteousness, even as it was accounted unto Abraham in the wilderness to be obedient unto the commands of God in offering up his son Isaac, which is a similitude of God and His Only Begotten Son. Where- 588 fore, we search the prophets, and we have many revelations, and the spirit of prophecy; and having all these witnesses we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken, insomuch that we truly can command in the name of Jesus and the very trees obey us, or the mountains, or the waves of the sea." (Jacob 4:4-6.) This scriptrue is so explicit as to make it scarcely necessary to add other testimony. We present, however, one more passage purely for its interest. Moroni, a Nephite general who lived about 73 B. C., prayed for "liberty to rest upon his brethren, so long as there should a band of Christians remain to possess the land—for thus were all the true believers of Christ, who belonged to the Church of God, called by those who did not belong to the Church. And those who did belong to the Church were faithful; yea, all those who were true believers in Christ took upon them, gladly, the name of Christ, or Christians as they were called, because of their belief in Christ who should come." (Alma 46:13-15.) We may sum up our lesson in the words of the Pearl of Great Price: "And thus the Gospel began to be preached, from the beginning." (Moses 5:58.) Questions 1. In what ways has the text of the Bible become corrupted in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE course of its transmission through the centuries? What has been the effect of this corruption? 2. Can you point to some texts in either the Old or the New Testament that imply a knowledge of the Gospel before the coming of Christ? 3. In what ways would the Church organization before the days of Christ differ from that set up during His earthly ministry? Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Read the statement made in Alma 46:13-15 (B. C. 73) relative to the Christians, and determine if it is in any way inconsistent with that made in Acts 11:26. 2. Name some great teachers among so-called heathen peoples, prior to the earthly ministry of the Savior. Discuss them in the light of the statement made in Alma 29:8. 3. Trace as far as possible the descent of the priesthood from the time of Adam until the present. 4, Did Moses teach the Israelites the Gospel, or the law of carnal commandments, immediately after leading them from Egypt? (Consult Acts 7:37-39; Hebrews 3:4-11 and Doctrine and Covenants 84:6-27.) 5. From whom did Abraham obtain his priesthood? What country do you suppose he was in when it was conferred upon him? TEACHERS' TOPIC TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR NOVEMBER, 1936 THE SOWER R EAD the parable. Matthew 13:1-9. In this as in other parables Jesus drew His figures from nature and the everyday life of the people. There were in Palestine as elsewhere different kinds of land under cultivation. In some sections there were well cultivated and marked out fields of fertile soil, but the LESSON DEPARTMENT narrow ridges and slopes of the hills were also cultivated. Some parts of the fields were strewn with stones and boulders while others had only a thin layer of earth covering the rocks. Thorns and _ thistles abounded everywhere and found sufficient soil in the clefts and crevices of the rocks in which to grow. A small, hard trodden path ran straight across the field which was designated in the parable of the Sower as the wayside. Thorny places were where the ground had not been cleaned. They contained roots and stones. Stony places were where the soil was shallow over stones and rocks. At the conclusion of the parable the Lord added, ''He that hath ears to hear let him hear." Christ gives the following explanation of the parable. (Matthew 13:18-23): "Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. - 589 "When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the wayside. "But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it: "Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for awhile; for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word by and by he is offended. "He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. "But he that receiveth seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it: which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundred-fold, some sixty, some thirty." LITERATURE (For Second Week in November) Lesson II ALICE FREEMAN PALMER ES, Alice Freeman was president of Wellesley, and there was work and responsibility ahead. But with a girlish heart she answered her parents' letter, who had been informed of her appointment through a letter from one of her friends. "T have been writing letters every moment today. None of them personal, you may be sure. Tomorrow I am invited to lunch with one of the Trustees, and all are as kind and cordial as possible. The girls and teachers too are so loyal and thoughtful that I am full of hope, even though I can never see my way a single day ahead. There is a great deal in it that is pleasant, but I have been obliged to get a good many things, warm things for winter and a few nice things suitable for the acting president. You see, I have to wear good clothes all the time now to compensate for my undignified appearance. How much I would give for a few gray hairs! I am glad you are glad at the promotion, and that Saginaw people are pleased. 590 Warm letters come from many friends." Now her work began in earnest. One of the first things she did was to organize courses on a college basis so that a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Science degree could be given. She built up the faculty, and as there were no schools that could be regarded as feeders for Wellesley she determined to do something about it. There had been a preparatory department attached to Wellesley; this she set free to do its own work. In various ways she was instrumental in bringing into being schools that would feed her institution, and in getting into sympathetic relations with others that could help. Yet another difficulty stared her in the face. Wellesley was away from any town. There was no way of housing the young women except through dormitories, so that unless new dormitories could be built the college enrollment could not increase. Each year many students were being turned away. Finally she opened a campaign and raised funds with which to build a new dormitory. A story is at hand showing the president in action while one of the dormitories was being built: "The contractors were late, the workmen dawdled. Finally she went to the director of the work and quietly said, 'We move into this building on such a day.' He answered, 'Impossible! It will not be finished.' 'We shall be sorry to inconvenience your workmen but we move on that day.' The director stormed, made remarks about ignorant women, unsexing themselves by trying to boss men, 'but wonders were accomplished,' said she, 'and on the day in question, we moved in with comparatively little left to be done.' " Her tact, humor, and abundant sympathy was constanly evidenced RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as she dealt with students, faculty, and the public. She was a disciplinarian, but her power came much from the love and confidence she inspired through personal contacts and the addresses delivered in assembly. The following story is revealing: "A gentleman tells me," says Mr. Palmer, "that when he attended a small New England college he found some of the regulations galling. On remonstrating he was told, "You had better go to Wellesley, where, whenever the little president raises her hand, the whole college hurries to obey.' Yet her authority did not rest on their will, on knowledge, rather, on sanity, poise, and a large way of handling business. "Incidental greatness characterized Her unconsidered ways." One thing is clear that in all her work she was a great inspirer. She filled her students with confidence in themselves and with the joy of life and all its promises. One woman had this to say of her: "Mrs. Palmer had a strange effect on me. When I saw her, I felt as if I could do things that I never dreamed of before. Even now, whenever I think of her, I have a sense of dignity in my life. I don't know what it is. It seems as if her appreciation of the worth of things puts a spirit into me that carries me along until the next time I think of her. I should not care to go on in a world in which she had not been." This personal influence was undoubtedly the secret of much of her power. And yet, this power came in part from her belief in her mission. She was saturated with the belief that the time had come when women should add to their domestic skill and grace something of the intellectual life. She said they were de- LESSON DEPARTMENT manding it. With the might of her precious soul she sought to have them acquire it in a manner which would enlarge their personality and help them in their family life. "She took her duties lightly and once exclaimed to the president of another college, 'Isn't it fun to be a president!' When I applied to her faithful secretary for information about the perplexities of these opening years, I received the following reply: 'The thought of Miss Freeman's feeling any perplexity in her position at Wellesley seems strange to me, who knew so well the inner life of the office. Underneath her cheerfulness, her keen sense of humor, her thoughtfulness for others, her joy in all that makes life lovely, there ran a current of confidence and unhesitating trust in her Heavenly Father. She consequently never appeared perplexed. The presidency of Wellesley was not a difficult position for her. In each emergency she saw by intuition the right course. To pursue.' "But that she," adds Mr. Palmer, "almost the first of woman presidents and with little in the past for a guide, should have possessed this instinctive discernment and youthful and ardent though she was, should have known that it is the plodding path which leads to glory, must, I suppose, indicate in her something like genius." Her work now was practically done. She had wrought a good many changes in the college. The whole course was made stiffer. There was a general rise in standards. "My informants tell me," says Mr. Palmer, "that the most marked change produced by Miss Freeman's coming was this new atmosphere of exactitude, work, and insistence on what a college should mean, succeeding a sort of boarding-house looseness. The girls no longer played at 591 going to college,—they really went."