Points of View By Eva Wangsgard VERYBODY is alright from k his own point of view," was a statement my father often used in explaining some action we could not understand. It is, of course, as true as most generalities and explains much that is difficult to comprehend. If people in a misunderstanding would endeavor to get the opponent's point of view, the difficulty would be very easily cleared up. That is another principle which the children have effectively proved for me. It began this way: For many years we left the townhouse each June and moved into a little old log cabin in the valley for the summer months. This cabin was more than sixty years old, made of logs squared by the broad ax. There was, attached at the rear, a lean-to of rough hewn timber. Water and other weathering agents had stained the grains in varying tints of brown, making pictures more or less distinct as the frost pictures used to be on the old farmhouse windows where I was reared. It was the children's habit, when they were ill or just resting from more active play, to lie on the screen porch bed and point out these pictures and comment on them. One day an intense dispute arose between two of them regarding a large dark brown stain. The girl insisted that it resembled a beautiful lady as you have heard people insist that they see a lady m the moon to one who cannot. The boy could see only a big ogre from a fairy tale. When the argument had progressed far enough to become annoying to the middle child he said, "Which one are you discussing?" They pointed it out to him, each explaining the merits of his, or her, point of view. "Oh," laughed Eldo, "that is my monkey. See here are his arms clinging to the limb. Here's his tail. Here's his funny face." They could all see the monkey and were very much amused by him. I thought, "How much like experiences in real life that is!" Those are, perhaps, the three commonest points of view. Let us say worry is the ogre among grown-up points of view, beauty, or seeing the blessing in disguise, is the beautiful lady, and a sense of humor is the monkey. How many near tragedies could be averted if the victim just could see the funny side, the monkey in the tree, as it were. After that, when an argument ensued among our flock, I often said, "Look more closely. Isn't there a monkey hidden somewhere?" There usually is, you know. It is usually easier to see the funny side of any disagreeable occurrence than to see the blessing in disguise. Either of them will slay the ogre, worry, easily. When we differ with some friend, next time, let us try to see his point of view and, perhaps, then we will agree with him; or failing that, perhaps, we can both see the monkey in the tree somewhere." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE FAITHFUL CLOCK By Ella J. Coulam I have a faithful household friend, Who serves me loyally— He counts out all the moments And prods me endlessly. When I am late, he rouses me And urges me to hurry; But for him, my reluctant feet Would cause me grief and worry. When I return again at night And hasten to unlock, The first to greet me at the door Is the tick of my faithful clock. Happiness Through Service Your Church University is dedicated to the principle that the highest happiness comes from efficient and faithful service. Therefore training for making a livelihood goes hand in hand with spiritual development: The aim is to develop both the will and the power to serve greatly. WELL-ROUNDED EDUCATION 1600 courses in 34 departments Colleges of Applied Science, Arts and Sciences, Commerce, Education, and Fine Arts. Graduate School. REGISTRATION FOR 62nd YEAR September 25, 26, 28 Write for Catalog Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH "Scholarship—Spirituality—Character" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices  , Utah WASATCH 80 L D S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. 68. Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 85c—New Style $.65 No. 500. Super Non-run Rayon, Short Sleeves and Knee Length o-o-cccccccccsssssseeses. 1.10 No. 70. Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton......... Ccsssscscsoecscscocsesscocsssesecscscssesssecesesesssessssesesssssseseess 1.00 No. 173. Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only........ 1.25 No. 64. Med. Wt. Combed Cotton............ Cccecccscssecesesecesesssececsscsesecessesecesessvessssseseceseterecesesseeee 1.25 No. 62. Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton 1.60 No. 56. Extra Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton o2.. Cccccsccscssssssscscssscessssessssesseserseeeese 1.98 NO. 82. 83 1-8% WoO] oucece.. Cescscseccsesscoesececsocccosececssssscsesesssessosssctessucccsescsecsuasessessssensvassvsssesnesee 3.15 No. 70. 10% Wool Silk Stripe occ cecccccecccsccccseseenencnenesemcmsenecsueceseusoeavecssneseesesisittstsacesese 2.26 Please state if for men or women, and if 3 old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. Postage prepaid. 20% extra for 48 P and over. Visit our smart new men's shop 36 So. Main St. When in Salt Lake. Headquarters for Est. 1877 missionaries. Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. No. 144. Light weight cotton, New No. 908. Heavy Weight Cotton Ecru or Old Style oe$1.00 Old or New Style eenesnereseseas$1.75 No. 83. Spring Needle. Lt. Wt. Cot. No. 472. Elastic Knit, Light Weight, New or Old Style... 1.25 New Style Only...............-couse No. 205. Fine rib. Med. Weight, New No. 609. Run resist rayon, Ladies' or Old Style......... Ececeeseeeee 1.35 New Style Only......--.-1.---- No. 405. Run resist rayon, New or No. 758. Ecru or White, Med. Heavy Old Style oo... Eects 1.35 Old and Men's New Style.... 1.65 No. 464. Rib. Knit, Med. Wt., New No. 498. Light Wt. Cot., New Style and Old Style........0..........--. 1.00 Only pan -65. Established in Marking 10c B A R T '@) & Cc O. Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Well, Isn't It Worth It? A few pennies a day is all it costs for this superior ELECTRIC ~ WATER HEATING METHOD about it UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. L. D. 5. Garment Our Specialty We carry a complete line in old and new styles. The following numbers will interest you. No. 1. Ladies' Ribbed New Style......$.60 cotton. Our double back No. 2. New Style ribbed lgt. Wet. Number. Men's new or old combed cotton, an excellent style 1.50 Ladies' number................200000.80 No. 6. Light weight garment, LaNo. 3. Old or New Style ribbed lgt. Dies' new style...00....... Cence 1.00 wet. Cotton, our standard No. 7. Ladies' Rayon in 4 grades, garment 1.00 $.80, $L.00 2. Eee eececceeeceeeceeeee 1.50 No. 4. Ribbed med. Wet. Cotton, No. 8. Men's Rayon, in 2 grades, bleached. Our all season $1.25 1.50 number. Men's new or old No. 9. Old or New Style 10% Wool 1.95 style 1.45 No. 10. Heavy, part wool, old or new No. 5. Ribbed hvy. Wet. Unbleached style 2.75 During Conference week we will mark the garments you buy of us free of charge. Make our store your headquarters. Nearest store in town to the Tabernacle and Temple. See our Virgin Wool Blankets, Men's Suits and Top-Coats, Ladies' Dresses and Suits. Factory to you.. Keep this Magazine with our adv. For reference. Original Utah Woolen Mills 24 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah One-Half Block South of Tabernacle South Gate When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 6S.) > Lbs. TRAINING PAYS! INDUSTRY OFFERS YOU... Employment— financial independence— responsibility— opportunity for advancement. Business training will qualify you for the better positions. Send for our catalog L. 0.5. Business College 70 North Main Wasatch 1812 x Salt Lake City — You Get Double Value— from your subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and other Church publications, when you preserve your magazines in permanently bound volumes. Send your back numbers to us now! During Sept. We will return them to you postpaid attractively and durably bound in cloth, stamped in gold. Relief Society Magazine......61.50 Instructor............ Ccce eee 1.50 Improvement Era.............--- 2.00 Children's Friend................ 2.00 per volume THE DESERET NEWS PR "PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS OF THE WEST" 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Should Mothers Plan the Life Insurance Program? Usually it's the father's life which is insured to protect mother and the children, but, after all, isn't it a mother's duty to see that an adequate insurance program is properly planned and the policies kept in force? It's the mothers and children who are most vitally concerned, for isn't most life insurance bought for their benefit? Beneficial Life Insurance Company will help any mother, ' or father, plan a scientific insurance program—without cost or obligation. Mothers—call on us for our help. If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best insurance you can buy. BENEFICIAL LIFE COMPANY HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BLDG.—SALT LAKE City, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT. PRESIDENT