The Relief Check By Sadie Ollorton Clark HE first time Elizabeth accepted the Relief check, she rushed to her bedroom and slammed the door behind her so that the children should not see her tears of shame and humiliation. Twice she almost tore the pink slip in half, but the knowledge that Melvin, her eleven-year-old son had no shoes for the approaching winter, and that Robert, seventeen, and the oldest of her seven children, could not finish high school without a little necessary money, kept her from it. Other people took it without any pretense of shame, and few had as many mouths to feed with as little to give them as she, although, she reflected bitterly, she was glad that she was ashamed. Somehow it set her apart from the mob that so regularly collected on the steps of the Relief Headquarters building. She was disappointed rather than surprised when her husband accept- - ed the check calmly enough. She handed it to him saying, "T suppose this is the first time a Galbraith ever accepted charity." But he said simply, "Well, other people get it and we need it worse than any of them. And if it helps your pride any, you can remember you aren't a Galbraith now. You're a Hardin." Tears sprang again to her red eyes and her temper flared. "Of course it isn't such a step down for a Hardin to take charity," she cried. "I suppose some members of your family have been on the city dole since the town was settled. Your brothers and your sister were the first to go on Relief here! They are all shiftless and poor! But | wasn't raised that way. I shouldn't have to be humiliated like this!" "That's just your Galbraith pride," he said evenly. "When you're poor you have to forget about things like that. As for my family, you must remember that your children are my family too!" "That's the reason I feel so badly. What will become of them? And it is just because you are lazy. You blame conditions instead of your own indolence when you don't want to work. Why haven't you plowed the land this year? Why have you let our best cows die from neglect this summer? Our land is mortgaged and we've hardly a herd of cattle left! Oh what is the use anyway?"? "There isn't any use with this drouth and the depression," he said soothingly, still refusing to quartel with her. "It doesn't do any good to work. Your brothers just have better luck than I do, and they have better land too. They never have liked me or they would help us now!" She turned from him quickly that she should not remind him of how the Galbraiths had felt when she married him. He had been such a fine boy then—so superior to any of his family, yet he was a Hardin and the family pride had suffered at the union. But, as the years rolled on, she had been so proud to hear the relatives say, "Elizabeth has made a man out of Harvey!" Running from the room she met Robert. "Why Mother, what is the matter?" he questioned apalously_- "You've been crying.' "Oh, r m—I'm just sort of worried son," she said hastily. 'We are 562 so poor and the farm and everything has run down so much this year. I don't know what we will do this winter." "Tf I could get a job I'd gladly stop school—" "Oh, no! Not that. You have just this one year and you must finish. We will manage somehow." "Tf we had gone to the ranch this summer we'd have had the cheese," he said, putting his books away. "Why, Robert, you know I'm not strong enough to milk and do all that hard work, and the baby is so little. What do you expect your Mother to do, kill herself?" "Well, you used to go up every summer and so did all the Galbraiths. You used to get a lot of money from the cheese too. You used to keep chickens and milk cows and keep a garden. We haven't done a thing this summer,' he muttered as he turned his face away. "T've had enough work to do, just keeping house for the family," she justified her lack of accomplishment as much to herself as to Robert. "I haven't felt like milking cows and making butter. It is so much work and bother to move up to the ranch every summer. None of the family go up there any more." "T know it," he mourned. "T just love to be up in the mountains, but they all think the work is too hard. Hardly any of the Galbraiths have gone to the ranch since Grandma died. Of course the rest of them can get along without the cheese money, but we can't! We need it now!" "T do all I can," she insisted as she left him. Everything we've ever had came from either me or my family." It was true, too. When her father died she had taken her growing family to the big old house to live with her Mother, and when her Mother too had passed on, not one of her many brothers and sisters questioned RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her right to continue there, even if she took her share of the farm inheritance too. She had learned soon after her marriage that Harvey would always rather get a two dollar a day job than work in the fields, but she had managed to make him keep everything going until the depression and the subsequent relief. Her own feelings of helplessness and inability only made it harder for her to do the tasks that she had once accepted as routine. The breaking point came when she first accepted the relief money. After that they barely managed, and each month the pink check became more and more necessary. She hardly knew whether to be relieved or worried when the wife of her wealthiest cousin took over the supervision of Relief work. Her pride took another blow when she saw the scorn in Eleanor Galbraith's eyes at her regular appearance at the Government headquarters. Yet she felt that Eleanor knew how to hold her tongue, and the knowledge of a Galbraith being on record would never go beyond the books. So the winter passed and spring came with the approaching close of school and graduation for Robert. He was an honor student and the president of his class, a fine, handsome lad, ambitious and proud. Elizabeth had warned Harvey not to tell him of the dole. She felt he would never finish school if he knew of her shame. If he ever saw her near the government building he could easily account for it because of the relationship as well as the friendship which has always existed between his Mother and her cousin. He realized her struggle with poverty and she recognized his embarrassment when one day he came to her with a list of his needs for graduation—sonie new clothes, money for various expenses. Elizabeth read THE RELIEF CHECK the items with desperation in her heart. There had been no income from any source but the Relief for months, and that check would never cover this additional burden. Would Eleanor see Robert's need? Perhaps, Elizabeth hoped, she might lend it to him herself and allow him to work for her to pay it back. That same afternoon she approached Eleanor in her office, but her cousin shook her head at the suggestion of a loan. "Why hasn't Robert been working and earning money to pay for these things? Other boys do." "Robert tried to get work, but he hasn't had much time. I wanted him to finish high school credibly and I just haven't pushed him." "He would have finished more honorably if he had helped pay for his education. I resolved when I took this work I would not give anyone a personal lean. I would have been penniless months ago if I hadn't taken this stand. The only thing I can do for you is to advance your monthly check. Do you wish me to do that?" Elizabeth nodded _ miserably. Eleanor started for the door to the outer room and as she touched the knob, Robert, rushing in from the outside almost fell over her. "Oh, I beg your pardon Aunt Eleanor," he gasped. "I was in such a big hurry and the clerk told me Mother was in here.- "Mother—could I get those white pants now? Bill Murray said he would let me drive the bus to the Ridgecrest dance tonight and give me my ticket as pay. I can't go if I don't have new trousers." Eleanor closed the door as suddenly as she had opened it. Elizabeth watched her turn deliberately to the desk and open a government checkbook. "Tf you are willing for your 563 Mother to take this, Robert, she could get you the things you want." But—but that is a Relief check. You wouldn't insult my Mother with a Relief check!" "She hasn't been them." "Mother!" he whirled on_ her, "you haven't—you couldn't have been taking dole?" Elizabeth's first reaction was of anger against her cousin. "You needn't have done this," she cried. But the boy rushed to her and shook her shoulders. "How could you take such money? Where is your pride?" She turned from Eleanor to Robert. ""Pride—what good is pride when you are hungry? You wanted to go to school didn't you? Have you ever thought where the money came from? Your father hasn't earned a penny for a year." "But the farm—hasn't it always kept us?" "You know how bad the drouth was last summer. Your father hardly attempted to work the farm." "But other people raised some crops. Uncle Ben has no more land than we and he wouldn't accept Relief, would he?" Eleanor spoke quickly. 'Your Uncle Ben," she said distinctly, "'is a Galbraith." "But aren't we Galbraiths too? He is Mother's own brother." "Your Mother, Robert, married a Hardin, and she has become one of them." "Oh I haven't Eleanor, I haven't," insulted by Elizabeth began to sob. "How can you say that?" "T've watched you, Elizabeth. You've let down these last few years. Even if Harvey has failed, why should you refuse to work? Where are your chickens that used to bring you an income besides supplying your own eggs? Where is the vege- 564 table garden? Where are the cheese?" "T've had seven children Eleanor. You've had only three. It takes all my time and strength to take care of them. You don't understand." "That sounds like Ed. Hardin's wife, Elizabeth. I know you have had seven children, but your Mother had nine. She was not as strong as you are, ever, but you know how much she accomplished. She ran the dairy ranch every summer, milked cows, made cheese and butter. She clothed all of you from this income. She milked cows all winter and sold the best butter in our little town. She almost kept her entire family in school through her own efforts. I know your father worked continuously, but it was all he could do to accumulate the estate he left his family. I've heard your Mother say that she never asked him for a penny for anything. Her idea of a wife was a help mate. What has yours been?" "But Harvey—" "You know Harvey needs some one behind him to push, Elizabeth. Have you done that? And even then, what he does shouldn't stop you. Youaren't old. Your children are all able to help. Why should you give them a heritage of humiliation instead of one of pride? I've wanted to say this for a long time. You don't have to accept this Relief check. Self respect is still yours if you would only work for it." Robert eased his sobbing Mother to a chair. "You are right Aunt Eleanor. And I've been as bad as Mother. Here I am, nearly grown and I asked her for money to buy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE me clothes—white trousers. I'm ashamed," he choked, "but we won't take that check. I'll make old Bill pay me a dollar for that drive tonight instead of a dance ticket. And I can get a job with Uncle Ben for a month, planting. We can manage until it is time to go to the ranch." "The ranch?" "Yes, the ranch. You'll have to go up there and cook for us, Mother. You won't have to make cheese. I know I can get cousin Benjy to go there and look after his cows and use his truck to haul the milk to the cheese factory. The ranch isn't as far away as it was when it took all day to reach it in a wagon." "But the house?" "Well, Bess, is fifteen, isn't she? You said Aunt Martha ran the house when she was thirteen. And Dad wil] be here. There's nothing wrong with Dad. He can run the farm himself if he has to. And Melvin and Margie are perfectly able to look after the garden." The garden! It was a patch of dry weeds and burs now. But suddenly in her mind Elizabeth could see neat rows of green, promising food for her meager table. "A virtuous woman," the words sprang to her mind. "Her price is far above rubies. She considereth a field—with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard." "You are right son," she said as she rose. "It will take about a month to get the garden ready before we can leave it. We must hurry home now and start to mend the fence tonight so that we will not have to worry about the chickens getting our seed." oN The "Patsy" Child By Virginia B. Jacobsen N the theater there is a slang | term "the Patsy." It is used to designate any subordinate actor whom an excitable and temperamental manager can use as a safety valve when he allows his temper to get the best of him. When such a director is annoyed with anything, he usually finds fault with 'the Patsy." What he wishes to shout or wail at more important actors, he shouts and wails at "'the Patsy." It frequently becomes the habit of the director, almost unconsciously, to ease his every fretful mood by turning upon "the Patsy" an intermittent fire of invective or sarcasm. As would be expected, it frequently happens that other members of the company gradually turn their criticism and petulance in the direction of this unfortunate individual, who through no fault of her own, has been cast for this painful role. Needless to say that in the theater "the Patsy" is almost invariably a woman or young girl. No man would endure the humiliation, even for the sake of a job. The position of the helpless "Patsy" becomes almost unendurably ignoble. She is an adult made to undergo the most shameful experience of childhood, that of the dunce badgered daily by a thin-tempered teacher in the presence of the class. No special sensitiveness is needed to break the self-control of anyone so continuously humiliated. IKE the temperamental theatrical producer, many tired and weary fathers and mothers lose all their pent-up feelings in biting criticism of a defenseless child. Sad to say, they usually choose the child who is docile and least apt to rebound. The theatrical producer, who gives vent to his irritability and in so doing forces the weakest member of his cast to suffer, is not half as base and cowardly as the parent or teacher who makes a safety valve of a defenseless child. On the stage, if "the Patsy" attempts to stand up for herself she is usually squelched or discharged from the company, but she always has the alternative of quitting her job. But, in the home or school room, if a child tries to defend himself, he is rebuked or punished for daring to speak to his parent or teacher in a disrespectful manner. Yet, no teacher or parent has a right to greater respect from a child than he or she shows for that child. Children are quick to sense injustice. There is no surer and quicker way to lose the respect and love of a child than to force it inte the role of "the Patsy." The actor thrust into this ignoble role usually continues to endure it through financial necessity; but the helpless child, who is a "Patsy" in his home or school, is forced to endure it because he has no choice in the matter. A few years ago a most deplorable example of the results of making a child a "Patsy" came to light. When an investigator of national repute endeavored to find out what lay at the bottom of the crime career of young Hickman, it was disclosed that an unjust teacher had accused him of throwing a spit ball which he disclaimed. From then on he became the "Patsy" of the school room. In his mind grew the desire 566 for revenge. The desire for "getting even" with everyone grew until it distorted his mind beyond the point of sane thinking. Of course, this is an extreme case, but it perhaps indicates the key to the solution of the trouble with many wayward girls and boys. WE hear so much today of the dangers of an inferiority complex in a child. Yet, there is no surer way of developing a lasting inferiority complex than by making a "Patsy" of a sensitive child.. If a child is constantly badgered and scolded, and reminded of his failures, it naturally follows that he will grow unsure of himself. Timidity of this type frequently grows into real fear; fear of not doing right; fear of criticism. No child can do his best if he is secretly harboring fear in his mind. The role of the "Patsy" is apt to have one of two serious consequences: It may develop a serious inferiority complex, as has been pointed out, making the individual weak and subservient; or it may make him revengeful, secretive, and often cruel. Only the very rare personality will rise above it to success. There are a few examples which point out how unthinkingly parents force a child into this role. John comes into the room where mother is entertaining guests. His face is dirty and he is untidy. Imagine his chagrin when he is greeted in the manner usually used under such circumstances. "John, for goodness sakes, go wash your face and tidy yourself. I am positively ashamed of you!" Nine times out of ten, as Johnny leaves the room he hears his mother making excuses for herself, not for him. "I just can't seem to make him have any pride in keeping clean. Mrs. Rich, how do you get RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE your little Reginald to keep so clean?" About this time, Johnny feels almost justified in doing violence both to mother and to dear little Reginald. If one of mother's lady guests arrived with a smudge of soot on her face, and her slip showing below her dress, Mother would quietly follow her into the bed room and say in a considerate whisper, "Jane, my dear, there is a tiny speck of soot on your face, and your slip shows a tiny bit." Or, the guest might be left to display her untidiness in total ignorance of her plight. Yet, the other guests would have paid far less attention to John's appearance than to Jane's untidiness. Doubtless you have seen this hap-. Pen more than once. A guest at the dinner table inadvertently tipped over a glass of water, completely ruining the looks of the carefully set table. Mother hastened to reassure the guest that no damage was done. Anxious to relieve the embarrassment of her guest, the whole episode is soon forgotten. The next morning, one of the children tipped over a glass of water on the breakfast table. Immediately the poor child is harshly scolded for being careless, thoughtless and a dozen other things. The child cannot help comparing the episode of last night with her own accident of the moment and senses the injustice of the situation. It is strange that most adults fail to realize the harm and injustice done to children under such circumstances. Parents frequently find some little © fault and continuously harp on that failure. One little girl of seven persistently bites her nails. Her mother has tried to help her over- 'come the habit by making her proud of her hands and with the promise of dainty leather gloves when her nails are long. What the mother THE PATSY CHILD might accomplish the father makes impossible by continuously scolding the child for biting her nails. If the child asks for a penny to buy candy, her father asks to see her hands. His remark is usually, "Girls who bite their nails don't deserve candy!" The father's harshness and lack of sympathy and _ understanding serve only to make the child more nervous. She is constantly in fear that she will arouse his anger or displeasure. When she becomes highly nervous or upset over something her first reaction is to bite her nails, and the damage is done before she 567 realizes it. She consequently plans all sorts of subterfuges to avoid having her father see her hands. He is losing his child's love, and she is developing undesirable habits, just because he is making a "Patsy" of her in this one matter. If parents are going to build noble citizens of their children, they must realize what delicate instruments they are dealing with. They must cease to consider them personal property on which they can give vent to their ire or displeasure any time anything goes wrong.