Too Much Freedom By Lucille Walker ANE ANDREWS came hurrying back to her mother who was sorting letters and papers beside an open trunk. "Tt's Miss Madsen, Mother. She wants to know if youll come to school tomorrow to act as judge in the school play try-outs." "Oh dear, I do wish no one would ask me to do another thing till I get out of this muddle! House cleaning is bad enough at best, but when you have to stop, dress up, and go somewhere everyday, it's positively maddening. But I suppose I'll have to go." And Mary Andrews wearily put aside the piles of letters and prepared to go to the telephone. "Why do you have to go, mother? Oh, I know how well you do those things, and all that, but what did the town do for some one to do all those jobs when you were a girl going to college? They ask you because they know you never fail to put over anything you attempt. If I were you I'd just say, 'Sorry! Can't do it.... Im housecleaning!' and hang up." Mary stared at her sixteen-yearold daughter. It did sound so easy when put that way. "All right," she said, "You tell her, and don't let her talk you out of it." Jane was back in a few moments. "Well that's disposed of," she said airily. 'Madsen was shocked and surprised, and whined a little, of course, but I simply said 'So sorry' and that was that. You know, mother, it makes me mad the way everybody works you—the M. I. A., the Relief Society, and the town. You're a peach when you have time to be. Do you remember how much fun we had when us kids were too young to leave, and you used to sing to us and tell us stories and play with us? But you hardly ever have time for Dad and us any more. It's lecture here, and teach a class there, put on a play or help with an entertainment—always something to worry you and wear you out. What time do you ever have to do things for yourself? Why you haven't painted a picture for years, and your writing—well the only time you do any of that is when you have to get a new reading, and can't afford to buy one. Jt makes me wild. I've just been reading this pile of stories you wrote a few years ago. You used to earn a little, writing for magazines, didn't you? I remember hearing dad tell how he nearly fell off the porch that time when he brought you a letter from some publishing house, and a slip of paper fell out of it. He picked it up and found it was a check for twenty-five dollars. Then there was the time you wanted new linoleum for that old house we lived in and you finally earned it by writing a story about it. Oh boy, if I could do that you wouldn't find me wasting my time just doing ordinary things for people." "Jane, I'm afraid I've neglected your education," her mother interrupted. "I should teach you the value of service." "T don't care. I think you could serve a lot more people by developing your talents. Look at this pile of poems. Why they're just as good as the ones we read in Literature class. I'm sure glad I stuck around to help clear out this old trunk. I'd forgotten what a clever mother I had. Our teacher says the only difference between a talented person TOO MUCH FREEDOM and a genius is that the genius doesn't let anyone or anything interfere with the development of his talent. Talent, which I probably haven't, I'll never give up till I reach the top!" "Why Jane, I had no idea you felt that way about things. Come on, we must hurry or these papers won't be sorted by dinner time." Mary Andrews' voice was quiet, with no hint of the tumult Jane's words had aroused. When the task was completed and the trunk lid was closed on the neat piles and bundles, Mary felt a pang of regret as if she had closed a door on dead hopes and ambitions. Later at dinner when Jane entertained her two sisters and brother with the discoveries of the old trunk, Mary tried to laugh, but found she wanted to cry. With an excuse of being tired, she went to bed early instead of studying as was her custom. It was good to be alone, to think over this new idea. It had never before occurred to her to wonder whether she ought to do the things people asked of her. Someone had to do them. But now she realized that life had been just one big struggle to squeeze in one more task than it was possible to do in a day. It was as if someone had turned on a light in the dark attic of her mind, showing the clutter, the needless things taking up space where important things should be. That phrase of Jane's, "You're a peach when you have time to be—" kept repeating itself in her active mind. But she felt that on that score she need not upbraid herself, because she knew that she gave of herself as freely at home as elsewhere. The children never asked for help of any kind without getting a ready response whether it were lessons or a party or a broken doll. "Of course I could be gayer if I had less on my mind, she thought. "A Believe me, if I have any: 569 woman can't do everything, and still be at her best—but there it is again, —TI don't have to do everything. Let someone else do some of the things, then I can take good care of my children and still have leisure to write. Perhaps it isn't too late. My mature experience should count for something. Maybe it's my duty to the children to make a name for myself. Would they think more of me if I were a successful writer, I wonder?" "Maybe I haven't talent enough to be a really good writer. But the English professor at the University encouraged me a lot, and the editor that bought my stories said I had possibilities. Queer how every time I've had a perfectly grand idea for a poem or a story, it's always been just when I couldn't possibly take time out to write it up— when I'm preparing a reading or rehearsing a play or something like that. It surely takes leisure to do anything creative, like writing. Oh, well,—" Mary never knew when thinking ceased and dreams began, but when she wakened her thoughts had somehow crystallized into a clear-cut determination to let nothing stand in the way of her talent. She hurried through her morning housework and then as though she feared time might weaken her resolve, she dressed and went forth to burn her bridges. Bishop Barnett was not inclined to take Mary seriously at first. "Why Sister Andrews—you don't mean you want to be released from all your duties in the ward! You are trying to frighten me, or else you are hurt about something." But even as he said it, he noticed Mary's determined face. "No Bishop, I'm not in the least hurt. It's just that I've decided I owe it to my children and husband to give them the best I have of time 570 and energy—and talent. I can't do that with all these outside duties. Please don't try to persuade me not to take this step." "But Mrs. Andrews, you can't leave us in the lurch like this! The winter's work is just begun. You know yourself, there is no one to put in your place. So few women have had your training and experience. Why we've always counted on your loyal unselfish service. It's been an example and an inspiration to us all. After all, don't you think you too have been benefited by your activities? I believe it is quite impossible to serve without receiving as much as one gives. I do wish you'd change your mind." "T'm sorry I can't do as you wish," Mary answered firmly. "This is not a hasty decision. For a long time I've wanted to try being free to enjoy the children and help them discover their abilities. Then I'd like to revive a few of my own hobbies. You'll find someone to carry on. No one is ever indispensable. Goodbye." Mary hurried off feeling as guilty as if she'd just passed by some helpless creature in distress. Even the thought of being free did not bring the feeling of exhilaration she had anticipated. That afternoon she made out a daily schedule for herself in which two hours of every day were to be devoted to writing, one hour to reading and study, one hour to the children's problems. After about two weeks of finishing up her public duties, she found herself trying to adjust to her new plan of life. Day by day she shut herself up and tried to write. She sharpened pencils and chewed them extensively. She scribbled and scratched out until her desk was littered with bad attempts. "How is the story coming?" her husband inquired one evening a few weeks later. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Tt's not coming,'' Mary admitted in disgust. "I haven't done one thing that's worth anything. Of course, I'm dreadfully out of practice. It will take a little while to get my brain shined up. Writing's like anything else that requires skill. It takes constant practice. And I'm going to practice." As the months went by, Mary became aware of certain unpleasant truths. She couldn't explain it, but the help she'd hoped to give the children had turned out to be disappointing. The two younger girls had been started with piano lessons, but they hated it, and made life miserable with their complaints. Queer how, when she was so busy, her brain had been full of ideas and plots for stories, and she'd had such a desire to write. Now it all seemed so flat. Try as she would, hour after hour, her mind seemed to be bare as the paper before her. "Whatever is the matter with me?" she asked herself. "I haven't done anything worthwhile all winter. I've written reams of stuff, but it all lacks something vital. Not one of my stories has been accepted. I did better than this last year when I was so busy with other things." Mary's chagrin became apparent in her attitude toward her family. She was often moody and silent. Then one day in the late spring, when she had sat all afternoon trying to write a poem for a contest, Jane came in from school, peeked in cautiously. Seeing her mother's head on her arms, she cried out: "Why, mother, what's the matter? Are you sick? Can I help you? You've been looking terrible lately!" Mary assured her daughter she was only discouraged. "Well, mother, Senior High is having a big entertainment on Friday and all the kids wanted you to read that funny one act play you TOO MUCH FREEDOM read at our ward that night in the Fall—you know the one we liked so much. The boys said it was better than goin' to the movies to hear you read that. I told them I didn't think you'd do it, 'cause you weren't going in for that sort of thing any more. They said to coax you hard. But I don't want to interfere with your career." "Jane dear, you big silly, I haven't any career but you children. Of course I'll do it if they want me to. This poem doesn't have to go in till next week." Mary plunged into the study of the play with all her old enthusiasm —glad of an excuse to drop that tiresome old schedule. When the youngsters came in to dinner she was humming happily. Friday found her a bit nervous as she waited behind the big velvet curtain of the High School auditorium. "What if I've forgotten how to read after all these months of not doing it! Suppose I get stage fright!" But she didn't. The gales of laughter told her the play was going over as it should. Afterward the boys and girls crowded around her. "Gee, Mrs. Andrews, that was great! We've missed you a lot this winter. What you been doin'? Come again and read for us." 571 Mary and Jane walked home arm inarm. The robin's song they stopped to listen to was not happier than the song in Mary's heart. Jane said rather shyly, "I'd forgotten how nice it was to have a mother who could leave her work and come to school when we needed her. Susan Perry says it's her ambition to be like you." Her mother smiled, but stopped short suddenly. "Jane, I've just thought of the loveliest theme for that contest poem. I've been trying to write all week. It's good! I believe I can win the prize with it. Funny how it came to me all of a sudden while the boys and girls were talking to me! Thanks for getting me to go. I've learned something today, too. You know Jane you can't win success by just shutting yourself up and working for success alone. You have to have all kinds of experience, and know lots of people, and see into their hearts before you can write what they will enjoy reading. I don't know why I didn't see that. I've been going at my writing all wrong. No wonder I've failed. It's only as we give ourselves to others that we really grow and get the vision that makes us great. Come on, let's hurry. I want to write, write, write!"