Edward was musical director of the Relief Society choir for nearly thirty years, Religious Verse of Alice Freeman Palmer By George H. Palmer* PRINT here a little group of I poems written by a busy woman of affairs. To most of those who knew her it will be a surprise to find that Mrs. Palmer was a poet. It was a surprise to me, perhaps to herself. For though a strange power of radiating light and warmth was felt by all who approached her, she devoted her brief years to occupations far from poetic, occupations calling chiefly for practical sagacity. Yet such work, too, she ennobled. Other persons engaging in it often become mechanical. It was precisely her distinction that she was never conquered by routine. Every day she brought fresh interest to each labor, and so maintained a rich personal life through all publicity. When in later years that life began to express itself in verse, one could see that the faith, romance, and passion for beauty, which here at hastily snatched moments received poetic form, had been all along the deep inspiration of commoner tasks. How multifold, however, and seemingly alien those tasks were, a brief enumeration will show. She took a leading part in organizing two large colleges, both experimental and of widely unlike types. For twelve years, as a member of the State Board of Education, she was engaged in reconstructing the Normal Schools of Massachusetts. She was for a time the president of a great missionary society. During the last third of her life she was associated on many committees with lawyers and business men seeking civic and social reform. In numberless ways she devoted herself to enlarging the opportunities for women to obtain a higher education. Asa speaker she was listened to with pleasure and - conviction. Her correspondence was enormous, for she was consulted by persons of responsible position from one end of the country to the other. In this advisory capacity she had steady need of watchfulness and tact to keep herself clear of schemers— sometimes of a selfish, more often of an unbalanced, sort—who were ever ready to hitch their rickety wagons to her auspicious star. Throughout all these complicated public duties she was still masterly in housekeeping, lavish in friendship, charming in all domestic and social graces. No one found her hurried, but peace and the blessed sunshine seemed ever to attend her. It is hard to see how a woman doing in this elaborate way the work of several men, and at the same time living with singular fullness the usual life of her sex, could find leisure to gain the technical training required by the most exacting of the arts. And probably it would have been impossible if it had not been for what I may call Mrs. Palmer's habit of instantaneous excellence. In small things or in large it was characteristic of her to take no wrong roads. She seemed to have the bird's instinct for finding her way through unknown regions to the significant spot. Rarely did work of hers have on it the fumbling marks of the amateur. Bring a bicycle to her door for the first time and she would ride it at once. Give her a camera, and her earliest photographs would be exquisite. The same easy mastery was hers in managing a refractory committee of the Legislature or in installing a heating plant. To forget *Published in "The Outlook" of January 16, 1904, used by permission of "The New Outlook." RELIGIOUS VERSE herself, to observe, to submit her mind to the conditions before her, to let her powers be invigorated rather than abashed by the presence of needs, and to hit nothing but the mark, these were daily habits which enabled her to accomplish astonishing results. Excellence was her province. She settled in it and made herself cheerfully at home there. From childhood she was fond of verse, and her acquaintance with the long line of English poets became extensive and critical. She loved much of the earlier poetry which is now little read. I was often surprised when reading with her to see how her hospitable and precise taste would discriminate the good from the middling in authors with whom she was only then becoming acquainted. Seldom was she misled by hazy thought or dazzling diction. She found poetry rather in situations than in words, and the true poet was he who could let her see those situations clearly. That she was in the habit of writing verse herself I did not know until the year before her death. On her last wedding anniversary in America she brought me a volume of twenty poems celebrating our happy life in the country. In Paris, a few days before her death, she told me she had intended to expand this into a sort of marriage cycle. Among her papers I found many such poems of Love and Nature, most of them too personal for publication. With them, however, were certain hymns and religious verses, which seem to me to possess a peculiar combination of simplicity, depth, and veracity. These qualities may give them general interest. Religious verse, strangely enough, is apt to lack veracity. Even when impassioned, it easily falls into conventional diction. The human mind has 559 difficulty in facing God alone, and offering to him its very feelings. In that august presence it inclines to lean on its fellows, and to employ general proprieties to help out its own special utterance. But Mrs. Palmer was herself everywhere. She had no society manners. Even toward superiors she used respectful boldness. In these poems there is, accordingly, a rare genuineness. They record the veritable ingredients of a single mood of mind. And this inner dignity often gives rise to felicity of phrase. There is, however, no curiousness. The lines are swift, of unimpeded flow; but freshness of thought marks the words, and leaves them singing in the ear after the line is ended. I am sure it would be much against her judgment to call these poems great, or even to have them printed. She told me that all she had written were but sketches, and had better be burned. But I believe that this selected exhibit of a collateral and occasional interest' in the life of one so widely loved is justified by the fair degree of technical merit, the naturalness and appealing power of the poems, and the support they are likely to afford to true religious feeling. I may add that several of those here given were written during an illness which followed a serious accident, and all of them during the last five-years of her life—(The Outlook, January 16, 1904.) Poems included in this article and found in our text book are: The Tempest. Nightfall. Acquaintance With Grief The Glory Of The World. On a Gloomy Easter. The Butterfly. A Communion Hymn.