In the place of a Wellesley Trustee, I dare say I should denounce this thievish Harvard professor pretty LESSON DEPARTMENT roundly. And yet I hold that at the present moment I am one of the great benefactors of Wellesley, one of the few who clearly see the direction in which its prosperity lies. "Great causes and great institutions are generally best founded or guided through crises, by a single leader. They are embodiments of him. His is their inspiration and his their wisdom. The service of them is personal allegiance. To him everything is referred, and his will takes for the time the place of all more minute law and organization. Wellesley has fortunately had this experience, first under Mr. Durant and then under the general of his choice. But the danger which besets such an institution is obvious: it does not acquire a life of its own. Everything is staked on the single leader; and even when that leader is perfect, there is something lacking in the spontaneous vigor of the institution." Miss Freeman continued her work until the Christmas vacation. She was married December 23, 1887, in the home of her beloved friends, Governor and Mrs. Claflin, in Boston. Mr. Palmer observes that they were married at half past eleven in 593 the morning. Up to that hour of the previous night she worked in her office at the college. Questions 1. To what characteristics do you attribute Alice Freeman's success with young women? 2. To what qualities do you attribute her success as a college president? She might have been successful as a Dean of Women without being a good college president, but she was both. To what qualities do you attribute this success? 3. State specifically the ways in which she improved Wellesley. 4, What evidence is there that she was deeply religious, and that she depended on her Heavenly Father for help? ' 5. Discuss the problem of her marriage: In view of the fact that she was performing such a notable service as president of Wellesley, should she have married or should she have remained with the college? What do you think about it? Note: For additional material consult chapters seven and eight of the "Life of Alice Freeman Palmer" by George Herbert Palmer. SOCIAL SERVICE (For Fourth Week in November) Lesson IT MEETING POVERTY Text: Civic Sociology by Edward A. Ross; Chapters XI and XIII. MONG the problems of social A welfare, poverty is of major importance. Both an understanding of the various causes which lead to its existence and some scientific knowledge of its relief are necessary for an intelligent approach to the subject. Effective alleviation necessitates an understanding of its causes and cures. One of society's greatest outlays of energy is the attempt to relieve poverty. But relief without an effort to help those who live in it to gain 594 a position among the socially efficient is futile. Always, there have been many people who have failed to earn the barest necessities of life. As society has advanced in its economic organization the problem of living has become increasingly complex, and the economically unfit have multiplied accordingly. The economic structure now requires greater capacity to meet its problems than ever before, but society has not provided the social machinery to give its relatively less capable members a chance to take their places in its set-up. With the exclusion of ever-increasing numbers from the ranks of economic production an abnormally large percentage of people have been thrown upon society for their care and upkeep. But this condition is only one of the causes of poverty. There are many: each leads to a different type; each has a definite place in the social relationships involved as the result of it, and all types must be considered for an understanding of the subject. This lesson is developed with a consideration of the following points: 1. The acquiring of a more sympathetic understanding of the underlying causes of povetry. 2. Cultivation of the approval of a standard of living which will lessen the prevalence of poverty. 3. An approach to the methods of alleviating the distress of poverty. An ideal society would be characterized by the absence of poverty and other forms of social maladjustment. Everyone would be able to make the most of his particular abilities and position. In life. If social institutions were ideally organized and governed, group welfare would consider all individuals; and if all people possessed the ability to meet the demands of the changing social order such a state could exist. HowRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ever, present affairs are far from any such Utopianism. Misery, crime, lack of adjustment, and poverty are overwhelmingly present. Special study is required to appreciate each of these conditions, and poverty presents an intricate problem. Its causes may be thought of under two general headings: First, that which originates among individuals; and second, that for which society is the causative factor. The problem of meeting both devolves upon organized society. To the first group belong those people who live in a state of poverty for biological reasons. They are the mentally unfit who, nevertheless, are expected to fulfil their obligations in society; those who are chronically unfit physically, and those who are naturally capable but who have been rendered unfit by severe illness themselves or who have had to meet more sickness in their families than they could possibly afford. Some authorities claim that sickness is the greatest single cause of poverty and that it accounts for 75% of the cases brought to the attention of agencies. Besides these, there is the great class of the unskilled and of those who are untrained for any vocation or profession. There are those who have failed to take their places because they are too lazy or too unstable to meet the requirements of their work. And there are those who seem to have a natural propensity for bringing unnecessary disaster upon themselves, such as fires and other losses from sheer carelessness. Then, there are those who are the object of endless grief because they do not know how to handle money. Improper budgeting of the family income is extremely common. In spite of good intentions many people fail to proportion intelligently their expenditures for food, clothing, LESSON DEPARTMENT shelter, education, pleasure, and additional items. Thus, incomes which should be sufficient are wasted or are used to disadvantage with the deplorable result that children are often. Deprived of proper preparation for life. Much needless suffering ensues, and no matter how much such people are helped, poor spending thwarts all efforts towards desirable adjustment unless a thorough reeducation takes place. Unwholesome appetites lead many to destitution. Liquor, tobacco, excessive and unwise use of leisure are all millstones of poverty. Improper diet which breaks down health is another cause. And when vanity leads to unwise spending, illicit dealings may follow. To the second group belong the vast numbers of poverty-stricken people who find themselves victimized by the economic and _ social structure; those who are left penniless by the misdemeanors and crimes of those who mishandle trust funds and companies, and those who are thrown out of work by the constant changes in industry and the mechanization of labor. Some people find it impossible to adjust to the changes in society, and many are excluded from work by the natural rise and fall of the economic curve. In addition to all these there are countless numbers who have been reduced to want through natural causes or unavoidable misfortunes, such as floods, drouth, earthquakes, fires, and other uncontrollable disasters. Among the first group are those whom we are inclined to call '"God's poor," or the worthy poor—those who have been deprived of their economic independence through no fault of their own— and also the noxious poor. The latter have been made the target for many a sarcastic 595 jibe and story; and truly, they present one of society's most difficult problems. We cannot feel the sympathy for such people that we do for the mentally or the physically unfit. They are the ones who take advantage of relief at the expense of their self-respect, and those who would take bread from the mouths of others rather than go to work, themselves. However, not all the people who find themselves in need of relief can be classified according to these definite lines and judgments. The matter is far too complicated for any such hard and fast division. During times of special economic stress such as the world has experienced in recent years, many have been plunged into financial distress and forced to accept temporary relief. Adjustments to the situation should be accomplished in a short time. Poor preparation for life is an enormous cause for poverty; its cure can come about only through better education in the home and the school. Although one of the greatest aims of the educational system is to prepare children for life, thousands are still leaving high schools and colleges unequipped to achieve any degree of independence. Lack of direction is one of the greatest reasons for this condition. The schools are attempting to overcome it with their plans for individual guidance, but direction in the home is also necessary. Preparation to take advantage of the opportunities offered in the schools begins long before children reach school age. Where poor home conditions lead to juvenile delinquency efficient guidance in the school is almost impossible. Although most secondary schools are handicapped by facilities which are too limited to - insure enough preparation for students to take positions in their chosen 596 vocation immediately after graduation, the opportunities offered do provide a good start towards nearly any kind of training desired. A study of the relief rolls of the past four years reveals the lack of thorough training ina chosen line. Inadequate and misdirected education will never cease to be a stumbling block in the way of becoming a good producer and provider. The lesson on health pointed out the direct relationship between an unsound body and poverty. While much sickness is preventable, much could be eliminated through preventive medicine. With proper training in childhood and youth, much of the poverty that arises for individual reasons might be gradually eliminated, although those cases which are the result of biological reasons are very difficult to solve. Improvement in environmental and social conditions requires effort which is beyond individual control—the community, state, and nation are here involved. Despite all the personal ambition in the world, opportunities for accomplishment are sometimes denied. Inadequate housing, unwholesome environment, faulty government, and abnormal economic cycles are some of the conditions which thwart individual effort and ambition. However, the control of such conditions is to be sought. The solution of such problems forms a large part of the burden of social education, and it depends upon the desire of the people. In considering the second purpose of this lesson, it must be recognized that inasmuch as earning capacities differ, incomes and standards of living must of necessity vary. But, inconsistency between income and standard almost always results in ulRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE timate poverty. The worship of wealth is not the goal of intelligent or composed living. The higher ideals of religion, spirituality, creative ability, modesty, and intellectuality all suffer because of such false worship. If people could cultivate contentment with what they could afford and relinquish the desire for the material things of life which are beyond their means, there would be less poverty. Certain commodities, such as an automobile to a physician, are necessities, while in other cases they are luxuries. If a luxury is justified by the income, well and good; if not, it should be eliminated from the expense account. At least peace of mind and more money for bread and butter will follow, even though the comfort and convenience of the luxury is given up. Effective production in goods and services is the goal which should be sought; and that standard of living which gives the largest margin of production over consumption is the efficient standard for both the individual and the nation. For one person it may mean an expensive level in monetary value, and to another it may indicate very small expenditures. Family expenses should contribute to the most efficient standard; and efficiency in maintaining one's work and service to mankind is the criterion. An extravagant outlay is a very real setback to many households. Goods and services of enduring value should not be sacrificed for transient values through lack of planning, haphazard buying, or giving in to momentary enticements, even though one might happen to have the money for such in hand. Relief of poverty is one of the most difficult problems with which society is confronted. It requires scientific study and administration. LESSON DEPARTMENT Each step towards the elimination of poverty requires widespread education in regard to its causes and a higher level of human judgment and accomplishment than now exists. But much can be done towards the relief and the prevention of poverty through consistent effort. The odd thing about relief is that much poverty is the direct result of unwise though well intentioned efforts to relieve its suffering. All efforts to help those in need should be preceded by a thoughtful consideration of the phases which follow in the wake of the relief. There are three points to keep in mind in all relief work: how to relieve, how to rehabilitate the dependent, and how to prevent poverty. Relief, when given, should be carefully supervised, and it should accomplish the purposes for which it is granted. Promiscuous giving is no longer considered a virtue. The spirit of the Latter-day Saints Church is devoted to the ideal of mutual help in enabling all to meet their problems, rather than the dispensing of charity for charity's sake. Two quotations from the Doctrine and Covenants illustrate this belief: "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." (D. And C. 42:42) "Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shall not have place in the Church except he repents and mends his ways." (D. And C. 75:29) There are those who would escape from social problems by resorting to new and untried, or radical forms of government, such as the communists advocate. Such an approach should be offset by the following statement issued by the First Presidency: "Communism is not a political party - 597 nor a political plan under the constitution; it is a system of government that is the opposite of our constitutional government, and it would be necessary to destroy our constitution before communism could be set up in the United States. Since communism, established, would destroy our American constitutional government, to support communism is treasonable." The problem of poverty requires the earnest attention of all who are interested in human welfare if the ideal of helping those who are capable of self-respect to achieve it is to be realized. Its relief should not be undertaken by those who do not understand the problem. Sympathy for the poverty-stricken should be saved for those who deserve it according to the best understanding of this unfortunate state. Activities 1, Evaluate the causes of financial difficulty in your own environment and determine how far an improper standard of living has contributed to the situation. This activity may be pursued as a community problem or as an individual one. 2. Make a model budget which would lead to your own financial security. 3. Through an interview with your bishop and the nearest governmental relief agent, determine the approximate number of people on relief in your vicinity. What proportion of the cases are due to personal causes, and what proportion are due to the present economic conditions? CHILD GUIDANCE Lesson 2 Can Motuers LEARN More Asout TRAINING THEIR CHILDREN? COMMON _ misconception held by parents is that they do not have to learn how to bring up their children, just as they must learn good manners, the use of the mother tongue, or the preparation of a good meal. They often imagine that Nature "takes care" of the rearing of children just as it does of begetting them. In the reproductive cycle of insects and some other very simple forms of life, each step in rearing the young seems to be definitely fixed by "instinct". There is very little evidence that these simple forms of life learn much about the business of being mothers. The case of the human family presents a strikingly different picture. The modern mother's education begins long before the child is born: she learns much about proper diets, calories and vitamins. After the child is born, she may learn many details of how the baby should be bathed, fed, and clothed. In fact she learns to love this squirming mass of life, her own child. The more she cares for it, the more she loves it. Before long, the baby becomes more than just a baby: it becomes a person for whom the mother begins to plan for satisfying feelings and attitudes. But much of this fondness is acquired through the intimate contact between the mother and the baby. Mothers do not have inborn ideas about the details of training their children. They probably for the most part learn their methods so far as they are at all definite, from their parents, grandparents, and nursemaids. Inasmuch as ideas about training childern are of human invention, we should not expect them to be more sound than human judgment. Now that modern psychology has shown that adults of middle age are almost as capable of learning new subject matter as their high school children are, parents need have no fear that they cannot learn the necessary facts to become artists at rearing their families. Parents are slow to improve their methods because they lack the desire to learn. Mature people have been known to increase their rate of reading a hundred per cent by simply persistenly trying to read faster. The quality of handwriting can likewise be improved, if there is a need for it. In most of our learned activities, we are apt to learn only enough to "get by". Parents in training their children usually do likewise. Many mothers are excellent practical psychologists in the sense that they understand the nature of children so intimately that they form the personality of the child as beautifully as the sculptor models his subject. However, by the help of science (which is simply more refined common sense), most mothers could improve their skill in child care and thereby avoid many defects in their children's personalities which might linger as handicaps throughout adulthood. We are taught through modern revelation to seek "diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith," and in another connection to "study LESSON DEPARTMENT and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people." (D. & C. 88:118; 90:15.) The Lord probably reveals to us only those things that we cannot learn through the ordinary means of study and investigation. The managers of famous race horses, hunting dogs, and prize fighters know that heredity without proper training rarely makes a champion. The arts of training sporting animals are highly developed. But in too many cases the much more important task of training children is extremely thoughtless. Burbank, the great experimenter who has produced so many new varieties of plants, once said, "If we had paid no more attention to our plants than we 'have to our children, we would now be living in a jungle of weeds." Little do we realize the permanence of some of the scars left in the personality of the child because of our poor methods. In fact, we might go so far as to say that most of the behavior difficulties of children are the outcome of lack of understanding by the parents. If parents would realize how many failures in adult life have their roots in poor management during childhood, how many marriages are unhappy because the partners were not taught as children to live cooperatively with others, or how many adults enter mental hospitals partly because their parents did not understand them when they were children —then the parents would more nearly realize the importance of making enlightened child management the noblest and most painstaking business in life. The proper management of children is an art which is so complex that precise rules cannot always be 599 stated. Each child must be regarded as unique and as requiring individual treatment. In the fourteen lessons to follow, no pretense will be made at answering all questions about the psychological care of children. Much will be accomplished, however, if certain general attitudes, principles, and practices are taught concerning some of the most frequently occurring problems. In the first place, we should learn something about heredity and training and how they interact in the development of the child. Methods of training are frequently seriously warped by wrong ideas as to how these two classes of influences affect the personality of the child. We should know, also, something of the problem of how fears grow in children, what their effect is on the personality. When they persist, and how they can be overcome. Likewise, anger constitutes an important problem for parents. What conditions make for anger outbursts? Why do children throw temper tantrums? How can they be overcome? One of the most common practical problems parents have is how to administer rewards and_ punishments. What are the dangers of whipping? How shall we know how to give praise? Emphasis will be placed on the importance of good relationships between the parent and child which is necessary for good discipline. What are some of the causes of persistent bad feeling between parents and their children? What happens to the personality of the child when he breaks faith with his mother? One of the most difficult adjustments children are required to make is that involving sex. In no field of child training has there been more bungling than in sex instruction. 600 Under this topic, we shall try to learn how children's questions may be answered, and what can be done to direct sex interest into wholesome activity. Attention will be given also to the reasons children tell lies, with particular emphasis on how parents unknowingly make their children lie. With a better understanding of what is back of children's lies, parents should be in a better position to set up the conditions that promote truthfulness for its own sake. Something will be said also about the orderly stages of social development, how children can be prevented from developing mistaken ideas of themselves, what can be done for the child who. Feels inferior, how the child who feels superior should be treated. Because in adolescence we reap the results of mistakes in childhood training, space will be devoted to describing some of the special conflicts of this period of life. When does a person become psychologically mature or truly grown up? What can parents do to make psychological weaning as pleasant as possible for themselves and for the adolescent? How do projected ambitions of parents make weaning difficult? What difficulties sresult from failure to grow up? An effort will be made to give some kind of answer to these and some further questions of more general scope. Better habits in children are posRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sible only through improving the habits of the parents. Child guidance begins with correcting the faults of the parents. This is manifestly a most difficult task. However, progress is possible if parents can be given the "will to learn" through being made to sense their responsibility as the real moulders of character. Problems For Discussion 1. What do you consider is the true place of special training in child care? Show how scientific knowledge of child nature is not an adequate substitute for a mother's loving interest in the welfare of the child. 2. State your opinion on the relative importance of some professional knowledge about training children compared with what is known about training animals. 3. In the light of modern revelation, what do you consider is the obligation of Latter-day Saint mothers to study subject matter other than the scriptures? How does this relate to her mission of parenthood? (Doc. And Cov. 88:118.) 4. Compare the amount of learning involved in being a successful human mother with the learning required for the mother robin to successfully rear her young. State a few facts about caring for your children you feel certain you have learned. Mention any elements in your work as mother you think came to you without learning. WE should cultivate a spirit of appreciation and gratitude for others and what they have done for us and mean in our life. Happiness does not consist of what we have but what we are,—Not in our possessions, but in our attitude toward them.—Laura Lim.