Everywhere in educational circles her work was recognized and was a subject of commendation and often wonder. She had done for Wellesley what James Burrell Angell had done for Michigan, John R. Park for the University of Utah, and Karl G. Maeser, for Brigham Young University. Further, she had helped lay the foundation for a world that would produce such notable speakers as appeared over a world-wide net work on September 6, 1935, in recognition of the anniversary of Jane Addams' birthday, pleading for peace and the abolition of war. The following women made addresses on that occasion: Dr. Mary E. Woolley, Pearl Buck, Caroline O'Day, Dr. Alice Hamilton, Mrs. Hannah C. Hull, Judge Florence E. Allen, A. Maude Royden, Gertrude Baer, Lady Aberdeen, Madeleine Rolland, Mrs. Israel Zangwill, and Mrs. Littlejohn. Alice Hamilton would not be serving on the Harvard faculty nor would Mary Woolley ever have been a college president, had the opportunity of college training been denied them. One of her successors, President Caroline Hazard, has told us something of the young president in the following lines: "We loved her for the loving thoughts which sped Straight from her heart, until they found their goal In some perplexed or troubled human soul, And broke anew the ever living bread. We loved the mind courageous, which no dread Of failure ever daunted, whose control Of gentleness all opposition stole; We pred herself and all the joy she shed. 592 O Leader of the Leaders! Like a light Thy life was set, to counsel, to befriend." She had been president of Wellesley for six years. Now another matter claimed her attention. In 1886 Professor George Herbert Palmer of Harvard University, had given a course of lectures at Wellesley. That summer Mrs. Governor Claflin and she visited Boxford, Mr. Palmer's country home. Says he, "from that time our intimacy ripened rapidly until on her thirty-second birthday, February 21, 1887, I brought her an engagement ring. With characteristtic audacity, she insisted on wearing it at once. When at our next meeting I asked if her girls had not remarked on it, she said they had on that very evening; but that when she had told them it was her birthday and this was one of her birthday gifts, she started a discussion over their respective ages and the subject of the ring disappeared. It did not disappear from her finger, however, necessary though concealment was." Immediately after commencement Miss Freeman told the Trustees of her engagement. "It was my hope," said Mr. Palmer, "that she would be set free from Wellesley at once and the wedding take place during the summer, but the Trustees could not be brought to an immediate decision. To lose Miss Freeman was in their view to imperil Wellesley, and uaturally enough they wished for time to look about and urged her to remain one year more during which a successor might be sought.... Unhappily, at a time when this call of the college was especially strong, I gave way and agreed to let her remain in service until Christmas."' Another plan of the Trustees in their dilemma was to have Mr. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Palmer go to Wellesley. This he did not think feasible, although he jokingly remarked that her salary was $4,000 while his was only $3,500. There was much stir in and about Wellesley. Many maintained that no man had a right to take from public life a woman so fitted for a position as Miss Freeman had proved herself. A letter written by Mr. Palmer to Mrs. Claflin, a mutual friend, is illuminating on this matter: "Dear Mrs. Claflin: "T hear from Miss Freeman that she has told you of our engagement. I am very glad she has. You would naturally be one of the first whom we would wish to tell. You have known us as few others among the Trustees have, and in the excited discussions that are to come there will be plenty of need of clear knowledge, in order to make people turn away from their hot momentary feeling and consider the real facts in the case. This great service of keeping people just and clear-headed you can now do for Miss Freeman. She will need such protection. She is greatly strained already. You know how sensitive she is to the disapproval of those she loves, even when she sees that their disapproval springs from nothing better than half knowledge. To hint that she is abandoning duty for selfish gains is to cut her with a knife. We all perceive that she is incapable of doing such a thing, but her pain is just as great as if she were. "On the other hand, that people will abuse me I anticipate, and I think it very proper that they should. Being of tolerably tough material, I can stand abuse very comfortably.