The Coveted "A" Class By Clara Perman T'S almost time for school, Bobby," I said to my young son who was looking out the window. "Here's your report card all signed and ready. Tell Miss Brown that your mother thought it was splendid." "Okay, mummy, I was just waiting to see if Patsy was coming. She was sure scared to go home, said her mother would be awful mad about her card. She had all III's and IV's—hbut, of course, she's in the "A" class and it's lots harder work there!" I knew that sooner or later he would realize that the "A" class did superior work; but I never wanted it to interfere with his happiness, the confidence he had in his own ability; so, as I took care of that stubborn top button on his coat, I said, emphatically, "But the "B" class is doing mighty fine work, too. Just think of all the things you have learned this term!" "T'll say!" he smiled back at me and dashed off happily. HE was no sooner out the door than Mrs. Hall, Patsy's mother, appeared all hatted and coated and ready to go some place. "ft wonder if you'd like to visit school with me this afternoon," she said, "Patsy brought an abominable report card home today and I'm going up there to see what's wrong." I remembered what Bob had said about Patsy—afraid to go home. Having taught school for several years, I thought I might be of some help to this new neighbor. I put on my wraps and we started out. She was all stirred up, I could see, and at once began to spill over, "You know, I'm going to tell that teacher a thing or two; she wants to put Patsy back in the "B" class. Now Patsy had the highest IQ of any in the group when she was tested and why don't her grades show it?" I knew of several reasons why this might happen; but she was so irate I felt that I would have to be very tactful. "How did you know about her 10?" I asked softly, "I thought they never gave out that information." "Oh, one of the students in the psychology class tested Patsy and told me. Of course, I had been teaching Patsy at home because I didn't want her to go up there and not know anything. So she got into the "A" class all right and, believe me, I'm not letting them put her back, either. I can help her at home so that she can keep up." I was beginning to see where the difficulty lay and my pity went out to the child to whom this grave injustice was being done; but I decided not to draw conclusions until I had visited the school. The "B" class was reciting first. Although Pll have to admit I would secretly have preferred that Bob 554 could walk out with the class that had tested a higher intelligence, I knew how small a part pure mentality really counts toward success. I certainly wasn't going to let it worry me or worry him, for the worry of the mother always reflects in the child. I saw him happy and interested in his work with a firm grasp upon all the material presented. He was developing a definite leadership without dominating, seemed to be well liked by his classmates. When the children were set to work by themselves, he attacked his job earnestly and intelligently. I was well satisfied. Then the "A" class was called. Patsy was decidedly embarrassed, nervous, which resulted in hysterical giggling. With absolutely no interest in her work she stumbled along showing an unmistakable inferiority to the other members in her group. As she could get no attention by good work she attempted to get it by annoying the other children and it was plain to be seen that they heartily disliked her. When she was called upon to recite, her face at once became drawn, strained; a deep wrinkle formed between the eyes. Patsy was a very unhappy child— and it was due to maladjustment because of a mother who didn't understand. Surely now Mrs. Hall could see that she had been wrong, I thought, but after school I found that she did not; but insisted that Patsy was just lazy and silly, should be made to stop that foolishness and get right down to business. "Well, we'll try her a_ while longer," said the teacher resignedly. I could tell that she disliked to put the child in a lower division, knowing the mother's attitude; for Patsy would at once be made to feel that she was in utter disgrace. An absolute stigma seemed to be attached RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE € to anyone working in the "B" class. I like to be friends with my neighbors and wanted to avoid any hard feelings, so as we walked home I was wondering just what I could say to this mother in order to avert the tragedy which I saw was overtaking little Patsy. In the first place Mrs. Hall had deliberately coached Patsy so that she would make a high IQ and be put in the coveted "A" class. This was her first injustice toward the child. "THE only possible value that can be attached to the IQ is its significance in the field of education, and here it is most certainly not to be discredited. The purpose of the test is to determine the original endowment of children. Each child is then placed in the school group where he can work to his maximum capacity without being unduly taxed or not sufficiently taxed. The slow child will not be humiliated by constant defeat because of unfair competition and finally give up in deSpair; nor will the superior child be allowed to develop that overbearing conceit which comes as a result of constantly comparing himself with the slower children. The fast child will not be held back by the slower one, which may cause the development of lazy habits for—'Even genius languishes when kept overlong at tasks that are tgo easy." Teachers take the IQ only as an indicator, not as a criterion. There is no test that tests native ability absolutely. The test measures intellectual capacity indirectly. It is really mental behavior that is measured and this is conditioned not only by native endowment but by experience and training. Now if the other children in Patsy's "A" class had been given the same training THE COVETED "A" CLASS that Patsy had been given previous to the test, they might have absorbed this same knowledge in a much shorter period of time and with much less effort. Naturally, in school they would soon overtake Patsy and in no time at all would be far ahead. The teacher in this case was alert to find any discrepancy in the grouping that might make for maladjustment but was hindered by a mother. Who would sacrifice her child's whole life because of her pride in that "A"' class rating. A mother may dislike to have her child changed to a lower division because of the keen disappointment she feels he will suffer. Her attitude will have a great deal to do with alleviating any such feeling. If she says quietly, "Miss and I have decided that you will be happier working with this other group," and passes it off lightly with no insinuations as to the disgrace of being put back he will feel it very litthe, and if at all, but a few days, then it is forgotten. He will be a much happier child, and be doing far better work. The feeling of the lower division toward the higher division is much the same that we have when we start for an outing in our little inexpensive car. A big Model de Luxe may pass us easily in all its splendor. For a moment we may look upon it with envy—but most certainly it isn't going to spoil our little picnic. There is happiness for everybody—if he is where he belongs. COACHING the child constantly in order to keep him with a higher group is unfair. Too much energy is exerted in study which should be used for play or rest. Both his physical and mental powers will be undermined rather than strengthened. All of this coaching does not add one iota to his mental endowtrained to give it. 555 ment. He hasn't the acumen for grasping ideas as quickly in class, and may begin to feel that he is not like the other children, something is wrong with him. This leads to loss of confidence, instability, and often a child is forced into a lonesome little dream world of his own, because he hates school. Laziness, of course, must never be tolerated. Every means should be employed to see that a child is doing his best work. However, it must be remembered that there is a maximum for each child and he cannot be forced to exceed it. It is often highly commendable that a parent help a child with homework, if it is done under the teacher's guidance. The parents can do much to arouse the child's interests, increase his powers of concentration and attention, keep him enthusiastic, spontaneous, thrilled with each new adventure. No child should be unhappy in this world where so much beauty and so many sources of joy have been bestowed. It is the child who goes through life looking through dull drab windows that is to be pitied. PARENTS often expect too much of a child because they have been informed of a high IQ which is erroneous. The Stanford-Binet Test, which is used extensively for finding the IQ, many times finds its way into the hands of those not sufficiently Yet the IQ will be given out glibly and taken seriously by the parents. Results from this test should never be considered valid until the method of procedure and scoring has been learned to the minutest detail; a general acquaintance with the nature of the test is by no means sufficient. Absolutely perfect conditions should be insured. Even then the problem of maturity of the eye, mathematical ability 556 rather than a readiness for reading may keep a very bright child from doing the type of work comparable with a high IQ during the first few years of school. HIS idea that pure mentality is of such importance has been greatly exaggerated. In the game of life the child's temperament, disposition, persistence, physical alertness all taken together make up a personality that will determine success or failure. Those of us whose children make up the "B" classes may glean a bit of satisfaction from the statistics which show the great number of successful business men, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prima donnas, artists, famous doctors, not to mention inventors now placed in the genius ranking, who have come out of a little "B" class. But we must ever keep in mind that they became successful because their enthusiasms and talents were not entirely killed by a constant insistence that they make the coveted "A" class. The talents have been distributed by a higher power than our own andwe must be content. It is the wise, judicious mother who sees that her child does not bury his talent under a load of censure, but finds joy in the "well done" which comes from getting the most from that with which he has been endowed.