9 Editorials Jeanette FRIENDS of Jeanette A. Hyde were surprised to read of her passing on August 8th in Honolulu, whither she had gone some months before, thinking the lower altitude would be beneficial to her. Her death was unexpected, as she seemed to be improving and well enough to attend a session of the Stake Conference, but died during the meeting. Mrs. Hyde was one of the most prominent women in Utah, having for many years been very active in - Church and political circles. For 19 years she was an officer in the Y. W. M. I. A. Of the 22nd Ward, Salt Lake City. On July 3, 1913, she was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, and she, with others, founded the Relief Society Magazine and for years acted as its Business Manager. She also was numbered with those who established the Burial Clothes Department and the Relief Society Home for women and girls. A. Hyde She was always interested in human welfare and especially in the well being of women and girls. She had foresight in seeing what would be interesting to the young and was instrumental in establishing homes and camps for their recreation. During the world war she was a member of the City and State Council of Defense, of the Liberty Loan Committee, and served as chairman of the Conservation Committee under Herbert Hoover. During the influenza epidemic she supervised the making of masks and personally assisted in the care of the influenza patients at the Judge Mercy Hospital. She had charge of the linen department there and worked untiringly until she herself became afflicted with the dread disease. She with others organized the Civic Center. Mrs. Hyde was always active in politics. She was one of the first EDITORIALS women to act as a member of the Republican National Executive Committee, having personal charge of the executive work involving the interests of Republican women. She served as a member of the Red Cross Chapter in Salt Lake County and as a member of the Social Welfare Committee of the County. At one time she was on the Board of Regents of the University of Utah. In April 1925 she was appointed Collector of Customs in Honolulu, a position no woman had ever held before. It is said that she gave the Port one of the most efficient administrations it had ever had. Because of her duties in this capacity, she re- 583 signed from the  , and Dr. Frank W. Hyde, Chicago, Illinois. Energetic, resourceful, deeply interested in people and events, Mrs. Hyde was always active until illness held her back. She had great ability in many fields. She was a most delightful conversationalist and her wit and stories have given great pleasure to those associated with her socially. We shall miss her sunny presence and deeply sympathize with her family in their great loss.