A Challenge By Eva K. Thomas OST of our Pioneer mothM ers have passed away but their memory should be enshrined forever in the hearts of mankind. It was our Pioneer mothers who worked wonders in making the West what it is—a land of plenty, happy homes, and smiling faces. It was they who glimpsed the future and saw just beyond the horizon a better day for their children and for their children's children. Their lives knew nothing but toil, days and nights of suspense, and in their hearts they realized they were living and acting for those to come after them; that some day the frontier they knew would be like the homes they left far to the East. The "Mothers of Men" long have been praised, but our Pioneer mothers too often seem forgotten. They were not only the mothers of men, but the mothers of the great wide west land, which today vies with the eastland in comfort, education, culture, wealth, and all those things that are modern and desirable. W ONDERFUL men invariably have wonderful mothers. Such a mother was Lucy Mack Smith. Perhaps no greater tribute was ever paid to a mother than was paid to the mother of Joseph Smith by the Prophet himself, when he sought her out and to her first of all confided that he had had a glorious vision and that he had been called to a great and marvelous work. She listened —believed, and had faith in her boy. He became a great Prophet, the son of a wonderful mother. Many Pioneer women left their lovely homes and friends, endured many hardships, gave their all—that we may enjoy this land—truly a glorious heritage. Even amidst toil and hardship, these women found time for many of the cultural things of life. Good books were prized, music loved and enjoyed, and the beauties of nature gave them inspiration. I BELIEVE Eliza R. Snow did a great deal to instill within our Pioneer mothers a desire for the better, the soul satisfying things of life. During her entire life she sought to better the community, to instill within all with whom she associated a desire to seek knowledge and to glorify womanhood. She was an active member of a literary society founded in 1854, the first of its kind on record in the United States. This society was to encourage education, and create a refined and intellectual atmosphere among the pioneer men and women whose fate had exiled them from such advantages. All through the study of pioneer life we find them striving for the better things. They realized the soul must be fed as well as the body. They accepted fully Christ's statement, that, ""Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." FLCONOMIC conditions are vastly different now. We have new interests in education and opportunities for development on every side. One of our present day problems concern the use of our leisure time, an unheard of thing in Pioneer days, and the proper use of this leisure A CHALLENGE time will determine its value to us. If we are to perpetuate the ideals of our Pioneer mothers we will use this leisure time to enrich our lives, that we may help enrich the lives of those about us. We are facing the task of developing a new philosophy that will change man's attitude toward himself through a new personal evaluation of life, toward his community and his country through a complete sense of individual responsibility. President Franklin D. Roosevelt in his inaugural address sounded a challenge for a new philosophy when he said, "Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of achievement. These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto, but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men." FROM the beginning, woman has personified the world's ideals. The finest conceptions of the human mind have always been expressed in feminine form. Today's crisis is not only political and financial. The very thing that has made human life sacred and beautiful is threatened. The disintegration of the family— the disregard of the marriage covenant. If these most holy institutions are threatened, is it not a hostile invasion of woman's own realm? Far more important than natural resources or national wealth is the question of how family life is led. The home is an institution and like every other institution, its value must be determined by its output. Dr. Fosdick says, "We may multiply our inventions and raise to a pinnacle the mechanized miracle of a civilization we have started here. We may make our industrial efficiency still more the marvel of the world and accumulate great wealth. We may even build great temples established for us. 575 dedicated to public worship and great schools dedicated to public instruction, but what this country is going to amount to in the end depends on what happens to its homes." Brigham Young said, "Mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of providence to guide the destinies of nations. It is through the teachings of their mothers that men are led to put their trust in God, and it is through the power of God that man fulfils his great mission on earth." At last the present age has sent its cry to woman asking her to come out from her segregation to restore spiritual supremacy of all that is human in the world of humanity. She has been aroused to remember that womanliness is not chiefly decorative, but it is like vital health which not only imparts beauty's bloom to the body but joy to the mind and perfection to life. Woman's leadership is indispensable in the present national recovery, just as it has been in all other crises in our national history. There is a challenge, in our present crisis, to every woman to fit herself that she may safeguard her home, the very foundation of this great country of ours. Then let us face these problems of ours with the same courage as our grandmothers did. Today more than ever before we need to hold true to the ideals our Pioneer mothers We must forever keep the home the sacred institution it was intended if our children are to carry on. Let us realize that we too are living lives for our children and our children's children. Weare only plowing, sowing now, making ready for the reaper. Then let us build true, level, square, and, deserve to be remembered. What kind of a heritage are we leaving for the coming generation?