Monument to Charles R. Savage A° a part of the festivities connected with the celebration of July 24th in Salt Lake City there was dedicated on July 23d a monument honoring Charles R. Savage, founder of the Old Folks' movement. The monument is placed on the southeast corner of Temple Block and was financed by popular subscription, by generous contiibution from the Covered Wagon Days, Inc., the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association, and the Cambrian Society. Charles R. Savage will ever be remembered by those who knew him as a genial, kindly man who not only was deeply interested in the well being of the old but also of youth. He was a patron of art and a great lover of flowers. His name will go down on history's pages, however, because he founded the movement to give the Old Folks some happy gatherings during each year. This is a unique service. Thousands annually gather to enjoy banquets, picture shows, etc., who look upon these occasions as red-letter days in their declining years. The monument will bring this movement to the attention of thousands of tourists. We look for other communities and churches to inaugurate Old Folks' days.  ""Charles Coulson Rich'', "PIONEER BUILDER OF THE WEST" HARLES COULSON RICH by John Henry Evans is a valuable addition to Western literature. It depicts a strong, outstanding, remarkable character who in his time played many parts. Mr. Evans says, "Charles Coulson Rich could preach a sermon, drill an army, shoe an ox, govern a college, build factories in the wilderness and run them on a dividend-paying basis, lay plans and make laws for a great commonwealth. As missionary he carried his religion through much of Europe and brought hundreds of converts overseas to the American Southwest." Not only in public life did Mr. Rich play his part well, but in his domestic relations he was outstandingly successful, for his biographer says he never had a quarrel, though he was the husband of six wives and the father of fifty children. The book has great historic value, for in reading its pages one sees "the Mormon movement in intimate detail; the persecution and violence in Missouri and Illinois; the martyrdom of the Prophet, Joseph Smith, and his brother Hyrum; the trek westward by covered wagon; the development of Utah and the Mormon settlements in California." This is a source. Book of valuable material because of the author's painstaking research into heretofore unpublished material in personal documents and in the archives of Utah and in Church manuscripts. It is well written and intensely interesting. It is a good thing lest we forget what it cost to subdue the wilderness and reclaim the desert, to read the life of Charles Coulson Rich again and again and other books dealing with pioneer life. If it is true that one cannot come in contact with a great character in any way without being raised thereby, all readers of this volume will receive not only information but uplift from perusal of its pages. Price $3.50. Published by The Macmillan Company, New York. *"Cash Relief" CASH RELIEF" by Joanna C. Colcord, Director Charity Organization Department Russell Sage Foundation, gives some valuable facts regarding cash relief. She tells that public relief in the form of cash grants is all but universal in Europe. This is followed by a history of the first cash grants in the United States. The objections to this form of relief are clearly stated and the arguments refuted by the experience of those who have tried the plan. The desirable results are enumerated. The book is divided into four parts followed by appendices. Part one gives the Genesis of Cash Relief; Part two, Detailed Exnerience With Cash Relief in Nine Cities; Part three, Summary of E-xperience With Cash Relief Experience in Nine Cities; Part 4, Coiparative Costs of Relief in Cash and in Kind. A book of this kind is very valuable to all who are grappling with the problem of relief, for it gives facts, not theories. Price $1.50 EDITORIALS 585 We Wonder Why WE wonder why— When hot days come, fashions shift from the collarless dress to the high collar of several thicknesses, Men choose very dark shirts for summer wear, For July 24th celebrations men wear brilliant green, yellow, purple shirts such as no Pioneer ever visioned, with bright neckerchiefs as an adornment, Compulsion should be used to force men to become uncomfortable by growing beards for July 24th celebrations, Some have so many kinds of food on the table at once that people are tempted to overeat, So many women tilt around on high-heeled shoes that are bad for health, for comfort and for grace, We act worst around home, We hurt those we love the best. Girls slavishly imitate others in make-up and dress rather than studying what would bring out their individual attractiveness, Girls paint their fingers nails red and make them look so startling. Cecil B. DeMille has said that when he sees a girl with her finger nails painted bright red, it reminds him of some one who has just killed a chicken, So many people when they get behind the steering wheel of an automobile lose their sense of courtesy and their law-abiding proclivities. LARGESS By Della Adams Leitner Proudly I look at them, the shining jars Of golden peaches, apricots and plums, The luscious berries and the purple prunes, The rich abundance that with summer comes. My shelves are filled with vegetables and fruits, My family's harvest for the winter's need, With some to share with those in cruel want, My blessing goes to all that this may feed. I think not of the hours or of the task It took to fill the jars. I only see Providing Love made manifest and I Acknowledge God's great bounty thankfully.