CONTENTS:

The Pioneer Mother Frontispiece
The Pioneer Mother Jennie B. Knight 233
Mrs. Kate Montgomery Barker (with portrait) Alice Louise Reynolds 236
The Childless Mother Estelle Webb Thomas 237
Mrs. Marcia Knowlton Howells (with portrait) Mary Grant Judd 242
The Inauguration Mrs. Vera S. King 246
Editorial—President Hoover's Prohibition Pronouncement 248
Utah Provides for the Care of the Feeble-Minded 249
Utah Law Prohibits the Advertising of Tobacco and Cigarettes 250
Absent Camilla Woodbury Judd 251
Mother Heart Nelle Allen Talmage 252
The Face in the Mirror Elizabeth C. Porter-Rissanen 253
Invisible Servants of Mankind Thomas L. Martin 258
Speaking of Girls Harrison R. Merrill 263
The Stork Mrs. Grace Woodbury 267
The Arrow of Chance Henry F. Kirkham 272
Pioneer Lois V. Hales 277
Cross-Sections of Utah History 278
Notes from the Field 282

VOL. XVI MAY, 1929 No. 5
EDITORIAL
President Hoover's Prohibition Pronouncement
Throughout the land there is joy and rejoicing because of the prohibition pronouncement of President Hoover in his inaugural address, delivered March 4, 1929, in the city of Washington, D. C.
Carlton M. Sherwood, in an article, "Prohibition's First Real Chance," says: "At last prohibition has a vigorous and outstanding defender in the person of the President of the United States. Since its inception, prohibition has needed moral support from the White House. This it has not had in the past in any real sense. Prohibition has succeeded exceptionally well despite this lack, but with such support it would have succeeded immeasurably better.
"In the ten minutes following his inauguration, President Herbert Hoover said more in support of the great national policy of prohibiting the liquor traffic than has ever been said by any President at any time. He did not evade. He recognized the issue. He put it first in his inaugural. As though to give redoubled emphasis to the message to his countrymen, at the close of his inaugural oath, he leaned over the Bible and kissed the well known eighteenth verse of the twenty-ninth chapter of Proverbs?'Where there is no vision, the people perish, but he that keepeth the law, happy is he'.
"In our judgment, Herbert Hoover will do again and again what he did in his inaugural address in bringing the vital import-
EDITORIAL 253
ance of this question to the mind and heart of all the people. In his first message, President Hoover drove home the fact that 'it takes two to make a bootlegger', to use the searching phrase of Professor Horace D. Taft, brother of the Chief Justice of the United States. Already there is a new conscience abroad in the land on the matter. Many more or less neutral individuals, who were left cold by appeals of temperance bodies or lesser personages, have caught the implication and challenge of the President's inaugural appeal. He undoubtedly will need to speak several times, emphasizing one phase and another of this question. He begins by urging obedience because it is the law. If he continues, he will need to emphasize obedience not alone because it is the law, but because it is a good law. Both emphases are important."
It is a source of gratification to all people who really believe in prohibition to know that President Hoover has already indicated that he expects to have Congress transfer the prohibition enforcement bureau from the Treasury Department to the Department of Justice, under the Attorney-General. As it exists at present, the authority is divided. Placing prohibition in the Department of Justice, will give to it a unity that has been lacking in the present system. "No one can imagine," says Mr. Sherwood, "Herbert Hoover tolerating either corruption or inaction in the prohibition bureau or any other branch of the government."
But with all of Mr. Hoover's qualifications and desires, he cannot accomplish this great work alone. It behooves all government officials at Washington to stand squarely behind the President in this matter, and then, back of official Washington, should come the united support of all honorable men and women throughout the United States. It is our supreme chance to show to the world that the spiritual leadership we have assumed in this matter can be realized. We are in hearty accord with Mr. Sherwood when he says: "What, then, is the duty of those citizens who believe in prohibition? First, to trust and believe in President Hoover and give him a fair chance to start on this matter. Next, not to overwhelm him with advice or to criticise him too quickly on minor matters. This does not eliminate friendly criticism on vital matters, but it does preclude hasty and petulant criticism on trivial questions. He may not always do the wise thing, but it is our conviction he will always do what he believes to be the right thing. Let us 'have faith in Herbert Hoover'."
Utah Provides for the Care of the Feeble-Minded
Congratulations to Relief Society workers, to the Utah Society for Mental Hygiene, and to all others intere