Invisible Servants of Mankind By Thomas L. Martin, Agronomist, Brigham Young Universsty In the soil there are a great many invisible servants of man. Among these are numerous little green bodies known as algae, which save nitrogen and ammonia for plants, add valuable gases to the soil, furnish oxygen to prevent certain plant diseases, absorb moisture, and help the soil and the plant to produce when drought comes during periods of low rainfall. THE LIFE OF THE SOIL These tiny servants have not always been known. In fact the science involving the study of soil algae is a most recent one; and the part that such organisms play in the economy of the soil is not all known yet. | What are these soil algae? They are microscopic plants with various forms. When viewed under the microscope, they remind one of little kidneys, links of sausage, small intestines of animals, pieces of asparagus, piles of coins, yeast bodies, or coiled springs. In describing the various forms, one may use an almost unlimited imagination. These plants are green, containing chlorophyll, as do all the regular plants of field and garden. Chlorophyll, as you probably know, is a substance used by all green plants in making starchy foods. The carbon dioxide of the air and the water of the soil are acted upon by sunshine, which has passed through this green coloring matter, thus making starch. This starch material, made by the algae, constitutes part of the organic matter so badly needed by soils. IMPORTANT Work of SOIL ALGAE It is estimated by investigators that there are about twenty-five to thirty hundred thousand of these algae in an ounce of average soil. This means that an acre of soil six inches deep, or about what is usually stirred in plowing, contains about ninety trillion organisms, a number-so large that the imagination fails to comprehend it. When one considers the important -work these tiny algae do, even if present in such enormous numbers in the soil, one must take an attitude of wonderment. They are not all active, however. They may be found at the surface of the soil, where they are responsible for the green tinge noticed at the surface of some of our soils. When in a bad physical condition, soils do not contain so many algae as do those in better condition. In fact, the more the soil is worked, the more organic matter it has INVISIBLE SERVANTS OF MANKIND 263 incorporated, and the better it is plowed, cultivated, and rotated, the more plentifully these organisms develop. It is a good thing to encourage the growth of these organisms for they add to the soil certain material that ls needed for good crop production. The following are some of the soil benefits derived from soil algae: Western soils are replenished with the organic matter they lack as a source of energy for bacteria. Nitrogen bacteria, essential to good plant growth, are supplied with large quantities of energy from the algae. Soil algae draw upon the carbon dioxide of the atmosphere and the water of the soil; then, with the aid of the sun, they make starch, which contains sun-energy. These starch bodies are later worked upon by the nitrogen bacteria. Thus, by aid of these algae, nitrogen and humus are added to the soil. ALGAE PRODUCE THE Precious NITRATES It is claimed by the Colorado experiment station workers that the nitre spots of Colorado, spots where the nitrates accumulate in such large quantities that they become alkaline in their effects, are due to nitrogen-fixing organisms. Some people criticize these workers for claiming that these nitre spots are due to bacteria rather than to alkaline accumulations; because, say the critics, from where would come the energy necessary to do so much work? The Colorado workers answer that the energy?the starch materials furnished by these algae?may easily be the source of the nitrogen _ bacteria. Be that as it may, students of soil algae feel sure that these green bodies aid in producing much of the organic matter needed by bacterial and growing plants. Nitrogen and ammonia are often in the soil in a form that is easily lost if growing plants do not use it immediately. The soil algae draw upon this easily lost nitrogen material and hold it for the plant to use later on. Certain diseases of plants flourish in the absence of oxygen, a disease of rice being very noticeable. In the regions where rice is grown, it has been found that if these little soil algae are encouraged to grow, the oxygen that is given off at the time the starch is being made by the green chlorophyll, mixes with the water in the spot where the rice disease is developing and kills the germs. (It may be that these soil algae are responsible, in at least a small way, for the freedom from disease among our ordinary plants grown on fertile soils where many soil algae are found. There are other reasons why plants resist disease a little more effectively on fertile soils than on non-fertile ones; but the algae probably accomplish much of this result. Soil algae absorb water quickly and lose water slowly. They even take advantage of the dew in the early morning, and in this  way increase the water of the soil. They may thus help the soil to be carried over short periods of drought. ALGAE AS Soil-MAKERS Another interesting thing about these little organisms is the fact that they are among the first agencies to attack rocks and start the decomposition which finally results in soil. We are told that after the great volcanic outburst of Krakatoa in 1883, the first organisms to attack the cinders wer? these microscopic algae. Algae are jelly-like and absorb much water. When they died, they remained attached to the cinders, thus providing a basis of organic material upon which other organisms of a higher nature could work, Finally, large plants grew, and broke-the rock-substance to pieces. It is really remarkable how many interesting bits of nature are at work. Our knowledge of the everyday world is indeed very limited. Particularly is this the case regarding the soil world. A little information at times regarding this all important substance, the soil, the stuff upon which all life depends, will not be unimportant if only to develop an appreciation of it. However, there is a practical phase to most of the important activities in nature. Consider the algae working for us. They are present in great numbers, and like the bacteria, they want man to make conditions favorable for their growth. They demand better cultivated soils, fall-plowed lands, well-manured soils, and crop rotations. The more we prepare the ground for plant growth, the more favorable it is for them. And if they are there and healthy they will do their part in making the farmer's crop a profitable one. A Carnation By E. Heloise Merkley Have you, O Florist, a carnation here, That's fair enough and sweet enough to tell My message unto her I love so well? One blossom, white and pure, for mother dear, Erect and tall and strong to symbolize The strength she's given me: yet dainty, so, And tender like her gentleness I know, With fragrance, sweet as love from her dear eyes. One blossom, white as her pure spirit's truth And beautiful as her soul's radiant youth, And richly green and strong of leaf and stem, The petals holding in the heart of them This tribute that my dumb heart aches with here, All reverence and love, for mother dear. Ordinary Mothers Make an Extraordinary Meeting By Alveretta S. Engar The wide-awake bishop of the ward sat on the stand in Sunday School, looking over the vast congregation, many of whom were mothers (as it was a special Mother's Day program), and deliberately selected from the group five mothers to give talks in the evening service of the regular sacrament meeting. At the evening meeting he said he thought mothers should take part in the meetings oftener, as when they were assigned to do anything it was prepared well and thoroughly; and though they were curtailed somewhat in public speaking, they amply made up for it at home. The first speaker was the mother of a family of little folks. She wondered if the bishop's words would stand unquestioned in her case, for what with preparing the meals for the family, tending to the needs of the children, supplying the demands of father, and entertaining company since Sunday School, she had managed to steal about five minutes time in which to prepare her talk. She was happy in her motherhood and was thankful that her mother did not decide she had all the children she could care for when her family numbered five or six, or seven or eight, or nine or ten, or ten or eleven; otherwise, she would not be here to bless us with her presence. She read several poems from Edgar A. Guest, appropriate for the occasion. A young mother, addressing the interested congregation, said that when she looked at those aged mothers who have been so loyal to their calling, she was proud of her motherhood and received daily inspiration from her mother's picture. It hangs over the kitchen sink, where so much of her time is spent. Then, a pioneer, a mother of sixteen children, arose, and related some of her experiences. She said, "When I was married, it took us four days with an ox team to go from here to Salt Lake. When we got home, we didn't have much of a home, nor much to go into it. We carded the wool, spun the yarn, and made our clothes. I had to make my husband's suit, too. It sure looked nice. When we went to a dance, sometimes the men had one pant leg up over their high topped boots, and one down, but we sure had a good time. I have had sixteen children and I am proud of them. I have been fifty-four years getting them off to school. If you should have gone to the door of our garage this morning and looked in, you would believe my children love
 
me, for there was a fine new car with a bow of ribbon stuck on it for Mother's Day." A little mother gave the following testimony with a decided foreign, though highly pleasing accent: "About twenty-five years ago, in Dresden, Germany, when I was just a young girl, I was very ill; the missionaries were around me praying that I might get well. The final word came that in order to get better, a change of climate was necessary; and then I realized the full extent of a mother's love, for a few months later my dear mother began packing up things for her only daughter to be sent seven thousand miles away, perhaps never to see her again.
"The day finally came, with the promise to return in ten years. My mother had pretty brown hair; but the day I left I noticed that there were streaks of gray, which made me realize what my mother must have gone through to let her only daughter go. I came out here, was happily married in the temple, and always planning when I could return to my mother. At times I would get quite homesick, so we would go up on temple hill, overlooking this beautiful valley, and would dream of the time when I could go back; and oh! What a happy reunion it would be. But, sorry to say, ten years later, when I was going to return, sadness had come into my life. My dear companion was taken, and I had three little children to take care of.