Pioneers
A LANTERN IN HER HAND?BESS STREETER ALDRICH
By Lais V. Hales
Bess Streeter Aldrich has written another pioneer novel. Her mother and father, who were pioneers of Iowa, were full of the experiences of those early days. Mrs. Aldrich was steeped in an "atmosphere of reminiscences of river floods, storms, drought, ox-team trails, log cabins, and snow drifting onto beds." One day Mrs. Aldrich remarked to her very aged mother how sorry she was that her mother had endured such a hard life in youth. Her mother replied, "Save your pity. We had the best time in the world." Suddenly it occurred to Mrs. Aldrich that she ought to write a novel embodying just that spirit?the hardships sustained by "courage and love and a sense of humor." So she wrote "A Lantern in Her Hand," which she says she would have written even had she known that not a single copy would be sold. It is her bit in honor of the pioneer mother.
Abbie Mackenzie was born in 1845 in the little village of Chicago, moving with her parents to Iowa, when she was eight years old. A combination of solid Irish and Scotch aristocrat, she had the physical attributes of the peasant and the mental traits of the aristocrat?the warm heart of the Irish and the steadfastness of the Scotch. In 1862 Will Deal went to fight for President Lincoln; and Abbie realized, as she said goodbye, that her heart went with him. When Will returned, they were married and went to Nebraska to live. Days of untold hardship and misery followed. But when spring came on the Nebraska prairie, Abbie went happily about her work, "one baby in her arms and the other at her skirts, courage her lode-star and love her guide,?a song upon her lips and a lantern in her hand."
Hard years filled with dreams, disappointments, disillusion, now followed. Then appeared the little school house and unpainted church; and the wagons now came west never to return to the East. Other children came to Abbie and Will; and as they grew, Abbie relinquished her many dreams and lived again in her children. In the promise of her children's accomplishments, she forgot her own disappointments. Then, one day, Will quietly died and the light seemed to pass out of her life. She recalled what Will had said of death when John was so dangerously ill. To him death was natural?"wild geese flying over?cattle coming home?birds to their nests?leaves to the winter mold?the last sleep. They were all natural; and yet of all
PIONEERS 277
of them all, we feared only the sleep." When she had told him that she couldn't stand it if he were taken away, he had replied, "Yes, Abbie girl, you could. It's the people who have loved and then lost their love?who have failed each other in some way, who couldn't stand it. Nothing could take away the past from us. If I were taken, I would go on with you, remembering all you have been to me." And now Will was dead.
After dark days and nights of doubt, hope and belief triumphed. Will came to seem very near and helpful. Time went on; there were years of almost uninterrupted success, and there were years when the "crops were still-born in the womb of nature." Abbie's children, growing to manhood and womanhood, went out into the world to live their varied lives. One day Abbie sat down to write of her feeling during all these hard years on the prairie, only to find that she must relinquish this dream along with the many others. The things she wanted to say, she could not. So she went about her home?the home that she and Will had so fondly built, making it more beautiful for the home comings of her children. For, thought Abbie, an old home ought to "stand like a mother with open arms."
At seventy, Abbie didn't feel narrow, even though she had hardly been out of her own yard. She felt broad; for had she not "seen cathedrals in the snow on the Lombardy poplars, the sun set when the clouds had been piled on the edge of the prairie?" She had married, borne children, and looked into the face of death; and when you've experienced all these things, your spirit has traveled far although the body has been confined. As Abbie thought about it all, it seemed to her that "love was a light that you carry. At first, childish happiness keeps it lighted; and, after that, romance. Then motherhood lights it and then duty?and maybe after that, sorrow. After that, service lights it." To Abbie, love was a "lantern in the hand of women."
Shortly before Abbie died, her children all gathered at the old home. Far into the evening they sat and talked. In their midst, "rocking and smiling, sat a little old lady who had brought them up with a song upon her lips and a lantern in her hand. All the years she had cooked, patched, and washed for them, she had dreamed dreams; and her children were fulfilling these dreams. They were doing all the things she had wanted to do and couldn't. Not only for her children, but, like all other true pioneers, she had dreamed dreams into the country. She had dreamed the towns, the cities, the homes, the factories, the churches, the schools, and they were all here now. And as Abbie looked back, she found that "some of the realities seemed dreams * * * * but the dreams, the dreams seemed all real."
One day something happened to Abbie Deal. Late in July on
 
a late afternoon, "while suppers cooked and children of the north end of Cedartown played 'Run, Sheep, Run' in her yard, old lady Deal died. A neighbor woman found her lying across the foot of the bed, fully dressed, while the slice of meat which she had been cooking, burned to a crisp."
This is Bess Streeter Aldrich's new story. It is told just as her other stories have been told?with simplicity, with beauty, with appreciation for the humble things and thoughts of life. Though Mrs. Aldrich senses fully and portrays truthfully the tragedy and soul-breaking hardships of pioneer life, her books are optimistic and uplifting. We feel that pioneer life was good and full of rich reward for those who lived it, provided they were full of cheerful courage and sturdy faith. Abbie Deal was the ideal pioneer woman and
"Because the road was steep and long, And through a dark and lonely land, God set upon her lips a song And put a lantern in her hand."