The Arrow of Chance
By Henry F. Kirkham
Jupiter, the chief god, slowly paced the golden room that looked forth upon the glories of Mt. Olympus. That his meditations were not productive of pleasant thoughts, was evident by the cynical glance he bestowed upon the others?the assembled lesser gods. Quoth he, "Nobody takes any stock in our pretensions, these days. Mars and Mammon are the only ones that really earn their salt. I ought to close out the corporation and shut up shop, for all the good we accomplish. But ere I do, I am going to have one more fling at omnipotence."
Reaching for the great bow of Diana, he dipped a silver arrow in the sacred fire. He then walked to one of the giant windows of the glittering palace, fitted the arrow to the bow, and, with a merry laugh, launched the missile into space. Higher and higher, the shining arrow sped, throwing a trail of flame like some bright shooting star. Higher and higher, until, as a single point of light, it disappeared within the blue vault of heaven.
Who, in that little village, nestling by the fair countryside of an Irish dell, could have even dreamed of the strange fate that thus drew nigh from the silent space of night?
Patrick O'Rooke was almost moved to tears as he pondered on the sad state of his love affairs. For not only was Patrick the butt of all the village wits because of his trick of day-dreaming; he was, also, afflicted with a certain unreadiness of speech, which rendered abortive all his attempts to wax eloquent in his attempt to win the heart of Mary Malone. Not that Patrick lacked charm in the eyes of the fair Mary. His curly hair and manly bearing could not fail to make an impression upon any romantic girl. But how could she openly surrender her love to one who was uniformly derided?
Now, this strange awkwardness of demeanor was altogether foreign to Irish traditions. Patrick's mother stoutly maintained that the whole trouble arose from Patrick's habit of roaming the nearby woods, when not hanging about the hut of the fair Mary. Certainly the sylvan denizens who live therein, watch for just such chances to ensnare the unwary and win them for the forest ways. Moreover, Patrick was in no wise troubled while wandering amid the woodland settings he so dearly loved. Not at all. Each
 
flower, each tree, each purring brook, spoke to him in the language of poetic fancy. The unnatural inhibition, which ordinarily dried the flow of his spirits, faded away in the solitude of his kingdom of dreams. Indeed, a perfect flood of delightful imagery often filled his being, in which he wove airy pictures of manful conquest untrammeled by the painful limitations of his usual life. Did this, in truth, prove the fairy spells for which his mother contended?
But, alas! In the company of his kind or more especially in the presence of his enamorate, all these enchanting powers vanished completely. He could not voice the words of love he so longed to express; he could only stutter in the manner of one who has lost his wits,?a manner that invited the laughter of others and the embarrassment of his beloved.
Hence the doleful appearance of Patrick as he contemplated the state of his fortune in the list of love. To make matters worse, there had entered those same lists one other suitor for the hand of Mary; no other, in fact, than Tim Flinn, the son of the richest man in the little Irish village. Also, Tim possessed all that Patrick did not in the matter of speech; and, in addition, Tim promised Mary the luxury of material things not in the power of poor Patrick to give?the visions of his woodland fancies, notwithstanding.
However, there were some who claimed that the intentions of Tim Flinn were anything but honest. Perhaps the virtuous Mary sensed this state of affairs, for she would give but scant comfort to Tim's ardent quest. Still, there was no telling what might have been the outcome of this unequal contest in the long run. The probable result of it was wormwood to the soul of Patrick. It drove him oftener to his kingdom of romance. There he could bend fate to a softer outline than the cold facts presented. In this delightful realm he could expel his hated rival with a jest, or sing such songs of love that not even a siren could resist. It is even related that, moved by the sight of fairies dancing in the moonlight, he was inspired to compose a tender bit of verse, which he tucked beneath the door of Mary. But unfortunately he overlooked the necessary signature, so that Mary credited the effort to the ready Tim, who made no attempt to set Mary right, you may be sure.
Yet, in spite of all these set-backs in his suit, Patrick clung steadfastly to his purpose. He had an inward conviction that in some mysterious way there would come a day of triumph?a day of vindication that would wipe away all the months of humiliation in one glorious victory. He knew that Mary really loved only him, could he but assert himself after the manner of other Irish people. He felt that for the transformation a sort of miracle was necessary, and continued to hope against hope that the miracle would presently happen.
THE ARROW OF CHANCE 273
And happen it did! Happen, moreover, under the most weird of circumstances?coincident with the natal day of the renowned St. Patrick, after whom the faithful Patrick was himself named. Of course the birthday of the Saint was justly celebrated in Ireland and in no place more joyfully than in this same Irish village. After the religious ceremonies, a fine ball was always on the program. To this ball came all the lads and lassies, dressed in their best finery; for it was truly a splendid opportunity to improve the affairs of the heart, and St. Patrick himself was reputed to have had a fondness for all true lovers.
Perhaps, in a measure, these facts account for the miracle that came to pass; albeit, the heathen gods seem to have had the major share in the results. It was customary, in this village affair, for all the young men and women to attend the ball separately. Consequently, a number of the swains, including Tim Flinn, had arranged to meet at a certain place near the crossroads and repair thence, jointly to the ball. But Tim, who, though he openly flouted the suit of Patrick, secretly had strong misgivings as to its outcome, had prepared a plan for this occasion that looked to the complete overthrow of his rival. It consisted of a clever snare that would make Patrick his own victim and executioner at the same time.
At a dark spot, previously selected for its muckiness, he caused to be planted a stout stake, attaching thereto a small rope with plenty of slack. Presently to this spot came Patrick, dressed in his best suit of clothes and lost, as usual, in a romantic dream in which the good St. Patrick and sweet Mary Malone were exquisitely blended. He was greeted by the conspirators effusively, "Hullo," shouted Tim. "You're just in time for a bit of sport. We've all agreed to run a race to the meeting house. The first one gets his pick of the lassies for the dance. I've been hearing that you're after boasting of your fleetness of foot. Now, here is a fine chance to show the lads and get Mary Malone for the first dance."
It so happened that Patrick was rather proud of his ability as a foot-racer. The note of scorn in Tim's voice decided him promptly to accept the challenge. Of course, while he set himself for the race, one of the party slipped the noose of the rope about his ankle. Naturally, while Patrick started well enough, he came to a rapid and ignominious end. With a crash that shook the breath out of him and a splash that covered his only decent suit of clothes with mire, Patrick landed full in the murky spot that had been so craftily designed for the purpose. With derisive shouts of laughter, Tim, and the rest of the plotters, sped away in the darkness, leaving the luckless Patrick to extricate himself as best he could.
Patrick had certainly touched the valley of despair. He had,
 
in truth, scarcely the spirit left to untie the rope that had been the cause of his downfall; for how could he now in his mud-bespattered garments, present himself at the ball. Still, the thought of his beloved Mary in the arms of his hated rival was the most bitter blow of all. It really seemed to him, as he lay stretched upon the damp earth, that life was a huge mockery, after all, and that henceforth nothing was worth while.
But, as Patrick thus bitterly meditated, out of the blackness of the night loomed a bright point of light. Like a splendid shooting star and with a humming note of exquisite beauty, the strange object darted downward, swift and sure towards the prostrate form upon the ground. In vain Patrick, noting the direction of its flight, sought frantically to avoid it. Squirm as he would, the descending missile followed, until, with one sure dive, it smote poor Patrick full in the breast.
Here, however, we have the strangest story ever told! Although transfixed by a great silver arrow, Patrick did not experience the slightest pain or discomfort. On the contrary, from the very moment of the impact, he thrilled to the very center of his being with such an access of bodily vigor and such a surge of exalted emotions as no mere mortal had ever known before. Indeed, he was almost suffocated by the tide of new sensations that encompassed him about as a golden cloud. All trace of diffidence, all awkwardness of demeanor, all impotence of language, vanished before the wave in the space of a moment, to be replaced by a sense of god-like power. He was full, nay, saturated, by the sacred fire from that far Olympus. Jupiter himself would have been satisfied with the results had he been present to observe the transformation.
With a cry of joy, Patrick leaped to his feet. More than this, he actually bounded several yards in the air to show his disregard of human limitations. He surely did cut a fascinating and unusual figure, for the outward metamorphosis had been as complete as the inward change. Gone were the mud-bespattered garments, replaced by as quaint a combination as could be well conceived?a sort of compromise between an Irish king and an ancient Grecian sovereign, the blue coat and green vest of the one and the purple robe and sandals of the other. In short, Patrick, the erstwhile village simpleton, had suddenly become akin to the gods themselves. He had entered, in fact, within the very portals of his kingdom of dreams.
In the midst of his wild capers, Patrick remembered both the ball and the Machiavellian work of his enemies. Now, indeed, he would have his revenge! What a sad awakening lay in store for Tim and his friends, could they but have seen the transformation of their victim. That the time of their rejoicing was near to an end, Patrick resolved as he plucked forth the arrow and held it aloft as a sort of scepter. With this resolve he sped, or rather
THE ARROW OF CHANCE 275
flew, towards the place wherein the conspirators in high glee awaited his appearance.
And you may be sure that the confusion was thorough and complete when, in place of the woe-begone and dilapidated halfwit they had been posted to expect, there stalked into the ballroom this most amazing creature?Patrick, to be sure, but oh! So magnificent a Patrick! No trace of timidity, no hint of restraint, marked his regal bearing as he strode through the dancers with the assurance of the manner born. Never before was so strange a spectacle seen in all Ireland. The music of the fiddlers came to an abrupt end as Patrick made his weird progress towards the huddled group wherein stood the astonished Tim, the fickle Mary reposing on his arm.
Patrick gave Tim but one withering glance of scorn, "A fine little joke you played on me, Tim Flinn," he chuckled, "but I know a better one. Out of my sight, you rogue, and may the devil fly away with you." Legend has it, too, that at this command, Tim fairly flew out of the window with some dark shadow at his heels. At any rate, he was no more seen thereabouts.
Moreover, legend further affirms that Patrick didn't stop at the discomfort of Tim. Not a bit of it! "On with the dance," he shouted, seizing Mary around the waist and swinging her high in the air. The rest of the dancers, under an enchantment they could in no wise resist, followed suit. Even the fiddlers fell beneath that mad spell, so that they played the wildest music that ever was heard. Wilder and wilder, they fiddled, and higher and higher the dancers danced. Indeed, they were, for the most part, nearer the ceiling than the floor. Finally they all whirled out of the room into the outer air, and so, on to the Fairy Ring in the woodlands, the beloved abode of Patrick's dreams.
There, under the silver moonlight, they continued the weird steps of the ballroom. It is said that they were even joined by those sylvan creatures so dear to the heart of all true Irishmen. Here, also, Patrick whispered sweet words into the willing ears of Mary Malone. Marvelous words they were, too, filled with all those delightful poetic fancies which Patrick had longed so vainly to express.
Perhaps they all could have been dancing beneath the moonlight to this day, if some of the older folks, left behind, had not bethought themselves of the good Father, and got him out of his cozy bed, and had him say the words that broke the unlawful spell. At any rate, presently, the bewildered dancers came trooping back from the woodlands. That is all but Patrick and Mary. Many contend that they dance there still. Others hold that they later paid a hurried visit to that same good Father, and thence across the seas to the fair country of America. But this is sure?Patrick had come to his Triumph at last!