State Welfare Workers Meet By Julia A. F. Lund.
The Utah State Conference of Social Workers, in conjunction with the American Red Cross Regional Chapter Conference, was held at the Newhouse Hotel, Salt Lake City, Thursday and Friday, October 1 and 2, 1925. It was most gratifying to observe, that at this, the first conference of the organization in the state, so many people with kindred enthusiasm. And the same purposeful spirit in the work, were assembled. Social workers employed by private agencies, schools, civic groups, the state, the Federal Government, and religious denominations, were represented. The Relief Society was justly proud of the large number of its workers present.
The opening session began with a short address of welcome by the conference president, E. J. Milne, who briefly discussed "The Conference Movement." Gov. George H. Dern followed with a very happy expression of hearty approval of the movement and of sincere desire to cooperate in the great social work so manifestly needed in Utah. He said that crime was the heaviest expense to the people, and he urged a campaign of education with prevention, rather than correction, its aim.
Rev. John E. Carver gave one of the most eloquent and inspiring addresses of the conference, on the subject, "The Spirit of Social Work." It was a most powerful plea for human fellowship. "The Goitre Survey in Utah," by Dr. James Wallace, completed the first meeting.
The joint luncheon with Red Cross on Thursday was a very profitable as well as enjoyable event. The outstanding feature of this was the very able discussion of "The American Red Cross in Time of Peace," by A. W. McMillen of the National Red Cross.
On Thursday afternoon the Red Cross Regional Chapter Conference met for its first session. "The National Red Cross as it Functions in Disasters," was treated by Miss Maria Johnsen, Field Representative for Utah and Nevada. "Duties and Place of Organization of Local Preparedness Committees" was discussed by Miss Kate Williams of the Salt Lake A. R. C. Mrs. J. G. Falek of Weber county A. R. C. closed the session with a comprehensive talk on "Organized Volunteer Service," and the utilization of this service in the peace-time program of the Red Cross.
The Thursday afternoon session of the Social Service Workers was particularly interesting. The subjects were vital and were treated by experts in their various lines. "Public Institutions and Agencies" was the main topic divided into "Juvenile Court in the Rural Community," presented by Judge Arthur Q. Nielson. "Woman's and Children's Labor Conditions in Utah," by Mrs. Irene M. Fowler, and "The Unemployment Problem," by Nephi L. Morris.
The evening meeting of the conference was given over to a discussion of "The American Indian," by Mr. John Collier, of California. Mr. Collier has given all his time to a study of the subject, and he presented many interesting and startling facts relative to the Indian. It is his hope to challenge the conscience of the American people to serious and proper consideration of the cause of the Indian.
Friday morning was a joint session with the Red Cross, and was one of the most interesting of the conference. The program itself suggests this: "Community Organization," by A. W. McMillen of the National R. C., "Minimum Family Budget," by Miss Jean Cox, and "Constructive Work with Families," by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.
Supt. G. N. Child presided at the joint luncheon on Friday. The subjects treated were "Local Aspects of Junior Red Cross Program," by Mr. J. B. Driggs, and "World League of Children," by Mrs. G. H. Green. As these subjects were ably presented, the listeners felt "here with this international work among the children is the foundation for a world league for peace."
Friday afternoon the conference again divided into two sections. One was devoted to a discussion of Child Welfare Problems. Dr. F. J. Curtis gave a masterly paper on the "Social Treatment of Mental Disorders." Miss Dora Mabin spoke on the "Pre-School Child," and Miss Charlotte Stewart on "Recreation and Child Development." Mr. Richard Burton gave an outline of "American Legion Welfare Work," and the meeting concluded with a discussion of the "Standards of Child Placing." The address was given by Mrs. E. H. Burdick, followed by remarks from Judge Hugo B. Anderson and Dr. T. B. Beatty.
The closing session of the Red Cross was given over to a consideration of plans for the Ninth Roll Call, and a discussion of First Aid and Life Saving as the suggested objectives in a plan of organization of a Life Saving Corps. After the report of the Resolutions Committee, the meeting adjourned to the Deseret Gymnasium, where a life saving demonstration was arranged by Charles Welch, Swimming Instructor at the Deseret Gymnasium, and a first aid demonstration was arranged by Dir. Charles G. Plummer.
The officers of the conference, elected at the preliminary meeting held in July, were voted in again for the coming year.
It is impossible to overestimate the effect for good these conferences and the efforts of these serious, highly-trained workers have on the country as a whole. It will certainly be through the efforts of such that we shall come to realize the ideals of our great social Democracy.
Welfare work, as we understand it, includes everything which is done by society for the benefit of those who are not in a position to compete on fair terms with their fellows. The advice of our prophet founder was to seek knowledge wherever it is to be found. And truth is a part of the gospel, so we are ever prepared to see it and grasp it. Our complex economic and industrial life is forever presenting new and changing problems which can only be solved by constant study, keeping abreast of the times, meeting the forward-looking people, and first, last, and all the time, honoring every truth by use.
A Christmas Carol By Phillips Brooks.
Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night! Christmas in lands of the fir-tree and pine, Christmas in lands of the palm-tree and vine, Christmas where snow peaks stand solemn and white, Christmas where cornfields lie sunny and bright, Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
Christmas where children are hopeful and gay, Christmas where old men are patient and gray, Christmas where peace, like a dove in its flight, Broods o'er brave men in the thick of the fight. Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
For the Christ-child who comes is the Master of all, No palace too great and no cottage too small; The angels who welcome him sing from the height: "In the City of David, a King in his might." Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
Then let every heart keep its Christmas within, Christ's pity for sorrow, Christ's hatred for sin, Christ's care for the weakest, Christ's courage for right, Christ's dread of the darkness, Christ's love of the light, Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
So the stars of the midnight which compass us round Shall see a strange glory, and hear a sweet sound, And cry: "Look! The earth is aflame with delight, O sons of the morning, rejoice at the sight." Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Magazine 
Editor - - - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. XII DECEMBER, 1925 No. 12
EDITORIAL