[Vol23 | May 1936 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: for 1936-]
duties secures ample means and time. Stake workers should plan a schedule or tentative program for the year and great benefits will also come to the ward officers who make yearly, monthly and weekly plans. This combined with the monthly Union Meeting discussions and instructions will make the wheels of Relief Society revolve perfectly and will give joy and progression to all.

A story is told that when the radio was introduced the ear expressed itself as being the most important part of the face. However, the eyes, and mouth proved their importance, for without them radio programs could not be produced. Every officer and all departments are important, and each must prove its importance by planning and cooperating to make one grand general plan.

The Washington Monument is one-third under ground. The preparation not seen is probably the hardest part.

Some stakes prepare a printed program, outlining the events that take place each month during the year with suggestions and reminders that will be helpful to each Relief Society organization.

In Utah Stake a yearly report is given each ward at the close of the year including the following items: Number of families in Ward; Ward Relief Society enrollment; % of families of ward enrolled; Average attendance of enrolled members; % of membership attending; Number of Magazines taken by members; % of enrollment taking the Magazine.

With this comparative report of all wards, each one is able to see its weak and strong points and build according to its needs. A monthly check on some of the previous items is also given besides including the following: Number reading the Relief Society Magazine; % of teachers' visits and talking the topic; and number prepared or having read the lesson for the day.

To increase membership and attendance of members, a membership committee checks on all absentees after three times consecutive absence. They also invite new members to join the Relief Society and especially try to interest young mothers in joining.

Magazine Drives well planned by the stake is "First Aid" to the ward agents.

Suggestive Social Activities may be planned for the year and details worked out as the scheduled month arrives. Plan play and diversion. Play is an important part in education.

Early in the year, know the date of your Ward Relief Society Conference and prepare the program to be used early enough for the ward to make a fine presentation.

Anniversary Day plans: Planning for obtaining 100% membership dues; 100% teachers' visits and talking the topic; plans for better class leadership and getting members to read the lessons, so that better class participation will result; definite procedure plans of your meetings so that your reception committee is at their post, new members are made acquainted and welcome, preliminary music, songs that correlate with the theme of the day, time budgeted so that the ones who present the lesson have ample time and also limit themselves to their portion of the time; and last but not of least importance, prepare yourselves so that the spirit of love and prayer abides in your heart, for the spirit of good will and harmony is indispensable to every meeting.

We must not become discouraged if we cannot acquire the results we should desire with the interferences