[Vol23 | May 1936 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business Meeting]
Work and Business Meeting, to teach this constructive principle. In a school district here in Salt Lake, a project in. Adult Education was instituted. Most of the women who came wanted to learn to sew. Many of them were entirely ignorant of how to do even the simplest mending or sewing. This school district included two or three Wards, and many of the women were L. D. S.
Have you any women in your community who do not know how to sew? A fifteen-year-old girl came to the Relief Society office last Fall. She had no mother, but was herself trying to mother some little brothers and sisters on a very meager income. This fifteen-year-old girl had been invited to go on a camping trip with a Mutual group, but her coat lining was so ragged, she was embarrassed to go. Are you sure there are no motherless girls in your Ward whose coat linings are embarrassing? With very little imagination one would think the bedding in this home would require attention as well as the underwear of the children. The report came to our office only a short time ago that three little girls were sleeping in one bed because of insufficient bedding, and one of these children has Tuberculosis. I visited a Relief Society Ward Conference and heard the Secretary read the report of activities. Two quilts were made in that organization in the year 1935. There may, 315 of course, be no need for quilts in that Ward, but if little children sleep cold or go to school in ragged and insufficient clothing, the Work and Business of that Ward is not functioning. The challenge is to Presidents and Work and Business Supervisors to - find the need. Human interests are most vital and appealing. There will be no lack of response if leaders will realize the rich opportunity of service to "the least of these." The call for service is as great today as in the time of Alma, or when the Saints were in Nauvoo. The responsibility is ours. Relief Society has never shirked a duty. Let us pray for ability to succor those in need, that the cries of the widows and orphans may not ascend to our Father in Heaven against us. As Relief Society women may we hear the stirring call of the Servant of the Grail, when he aroused the young men about him: "Come let us thank our God that we have the power to hear the call of Life, and power to answer as the duty calls." MAGAZINE DEPARTMENT Counselor Kate M. Barker, Chairman HIS very interesting Department was held in the Ladies' Gym, Deseret Gymnasium, at 1:30 p. M., on Thursday, April 2, 1936. This was the first time a Department for the Magazine had been held during the Relief Society Conference, and it was a most inspirational gathering. Instructions bearing upon the special work of the Magazine Agents MARY C. KIMBALL, Editor of the Relief Society Magazine, pointed out the value of having a printed voice and that every effort were given under the different headings. Earl J. Glade gave one of his delightful and characteristic addresses on "'Salesmanship." Special attention should be called to the presentation of Magazine awards by President Louise Y. Robison. The response of the prize winners to the subject ""How We Won," embodied many interesting and constructive suggestions. Was put forth to print in the Magazine wholesome, uplifting, helpful material of as fine a literary standard and of as great variety as possible. 316
She also pointed out that many biographical sketches come in of very fine women who have served in the organization for a long period of time. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of such women and it is impossible to print sketches of the lives of all of them. Each biographical sketch submitted should have a general appeal and not be of interest only to those who know and love the subject of the sketch.
The space in the Magazine is very limited. Hundreds more articles are submitted than can be used. Very often poems or short articles are sent in that have been written for some special occasion, the setting and spirit made them very much enjoyed, but they are often not of enough literary merit to be worthy of publication in the Magazine and often they appeal only to the people of the ward or stake where they were given. PLACE OF THE MAGAZINE IN OUR EDUCATIONAL WORK Counselor Kate M. Barker "THE RELIEF SOCIETY is one of the greatest schools for leadership training. It is training for leadership in the home, and for this purpose a broad educational program is outlined and lessons written. These lessons are published in the Relief Society Magazine. Just as the chart and compass are necessary for the sea captain, so the Magazine is necessary for every officer and teacher. But the organization is a cooperative society. All are training for leadership and leadership is only developed by action. Every member needs the Magazine that she may contribute to the lessons. But there is still a broader field of educational work for the Magazine. One of the great responsibilities of the Relief Society is to aid in "Developing Christian homes in which Christian personality may develop." One of the greatest tasks in which any organization may engage is that of helping parents lift their family life to a higher spiritual plane. Most parents take their responsibility seriously. They are eager for help and more and more are coming to realize that children are shaped mentally and spiritually by the atmosphere of the home. Manners, personal views, prejudices, ideals?all make for the spirit of the home?become part of all, as naturally as the air we breathe. The spirit of the home is determined largely by what we read and what we talk about in the home. Literature is judged by its content and its form. Judged from the former standard the Magazine is good literature. It is wholesome from cover to cover. Adults and children alike need such reading material. Character is not something gained and then enjoyed forever. Character is growth and growth means ideals and most of us are short on ideals. Conversation in the home must be guided but not "preachy." If it is not guided, it is apt to be aimless or degenerate into gossip. To guide the conversation so that the spirit of the home is right, there must be worthwhile subjects to talk about. The Magazine in its editorials, stories, and articles furnish such material on a wide range of subjects. There are many women whom the Relief Society has not yet reached. The Magazine may be one way of converting them to the value of membership. There are many young mothers who are not affiliated with the organization. They may be reached through the Magazine. The last number had three splendid articles of especial interest to these young mothers and home makers.
No work in Relief Society is more important than getting Church ideals into the homes through the Magazine. Our agents should have a high conception of their task. The success 317 of their work is not to be counted alone in the tangible results of subscriptions obtained, but rather in the intangible help given and ideals planted in the homes. PROBLEMS OF THE CIRCULATION MANAGER Kate M. Newman, Circulation Manager, Relief Society Magazine N mailing the Magazine, we desire to give you the best possible service, and ask your cooperation in helping us to be able to comply with the Post Office requirements, as they will not deliver the Magazine to you unless we do so. It is very necessary to have the name and proper address written plainly and correctly. Sometimes we receive a name and address that is almost impossible to read or copy. Do not abbreviate streets such as "Was." It can mean either Washington or Wasatch. Give the correct address and do not guess at numbers. We have hundreds of renewals each year with one figure different than it was the previous year, such as 742 or 746
East 2nd South. Now we are at a loss to know which is correct, and can not imagine so many people move such a short distance. Be exact: For example, I received a subscription with the name ''Sarah Jones Rush." We mailed the Magazine to this name but it was returned marked "no such person."' We then referred to the list, wrote to the agent and waited for a reply which came telling us that the name was Sarah Jones and the word "rush," although written with a capital "R" with no separation from the name, meant to rush the Magazine to her. We have lists of 3 or 4 names sent to us, for example, we will say from Warren, Arizona. We mail the Magazines, but later receive a complaint that one lady has not received hers, We write to the agent and finally learn that she lives in Bisbee instead of Warren, Arizona, although there was no indication of this on the list sent in to us. Also among a list of about 60 names from a large city with street numbers, such as San Francisco, California, will be one name with no indication that it does not belong with the others. It is returned to us, and we write to the agent and find the lady's address is Logan, Utah instead of San Francisco, Cal. In the meantime the lady is waiting for her Magazine, the fault not being with the mailing department. Sometimes we receive subscriptions without the name of the town, only the name of the ward given. This is not sufficient. I have a record of one sent this way, and it took 2 months for me to locate the subscriber, as there was nothing but the name of the ward on it to indicate where it came from. If you do not receive your magazine at the regular mailing time, don't fail to notify us at once. By doing so, as a rule, we are able to supply you with one, locate the trouble and rectify it immediately. When one waits six months, or as we have had them do, come to us after one or two years time, it is hard to correct a mistake of this kind. We cannot make good or replace Magazines after six months. On several occasions, we have a name and address sent to us and we mail the Magazine for several months, then receive a notice that the 318
Magazine is going to the wrong person, and that it should be sent to some one else. In the meantime the lady who has received the Magazines has failed to take care of them, so they cannot be returned to the rightful owner. She, having paid for them, is entitled to her full number, so the office replaces them and is the loser. One very important matter which is an expense to the Office and needs the help of the agent, is the duplication of Magazines to a subscriber. If every agent would keep the stub on her receipt book filled out correctly when giving a receipt to her subscriber, she would have a record to refer to when filling out a renewal subscription blank, and it would eliminate the sending of 2
Magazines for the same month to many women. It is customary in the office when a subscription comes in and does not state which month to commence with, to mail the current number. It is impossible for us to look up each subscriber and see if their renewal is for the current month. I personally feel that it is a part of the agents' work to state which number to commence the subscription with. Be as accurate as you can, and do not let us mail the Magazine for two or three months, then write and say you did not want them to commence until later. We have this happen occasionally and when on a list of about fifty names, it is quite a loss. Occasionally we receive a check or money order without any name or address. Please advise agents that we will gladly furnish subscription blanks and would be pleased to have them send all subscriptions in on these blanks with the complete name and address given. It is felt that Stake and Ward Magazine agents can help to eliminate extra work and expense as well as dissatisfaction among subscribers, by cooperating with the Magazine office. We do appreciate the interest taken as well as the service given by all concerned, and hope to give service to all that will be satisfactory in every way possible.
CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT Ida Peterson Beal, Chairman
The theme for this Department was: "The Union Meeting?What it can do for Choristers and Organists." From far and near Choristers and Organists had gathered to obtain instructions that would make them more efficient in their labors. From their enthusiasm, and the many questions asked, it was evident that they realize their responsibility in placing music on the same high plane as that of the wonderful work developed by the class leaders of our educational program. Definite and helpful instructions were given by Ida Peterson Beal, Elise B. Alder and Alta B. Cassity. Charlotte O. Sackett used the major portion of the time in giving valuable and constructive suggestions on the problems pertaining to group singing, breathing, tone quality, rhythm, etc. The songs selected for the year's activity are the following: "The Morning Breaks," Evan Stephens; "Zion Stands With Hills Surrounded;" "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief;" "On the Bend of the River," (Words, Ruth May Fox; Music, Frances W. Champ); Trios: "In the Time of Roses"?Old German Melody; "The Old Refrain," Fritz Kreisler.
WHAT THE UNION MEETING CAN DO FOR THE ORGANIST Janet M. Thompson, Member of General Board
The Union Meeting is essentially a preparation meeting. It serves as a point of contact for definite instruction and help. It functions as a guiding and directing force. It permits of discussion of uniform as well as special problems. The Music Section affords opportunity to improve our work?to develop yearly, monthly and weekly objectives. This department can?Inspire, encourage and help organists to secure practical knowledge and skill. Keep them informed as to the needs, the strength and weakness of music in Stake. Seek suggestions from Ward organists in order to unify work. Challenge the interest of the class. Renew enthusiasm, build for more efficient service and constantly stimulate in order to avoid indifference. A wise musician will study the life story of the composer. A well-planned music department will develop the spiritual and educational background of all music used. If possible organists should have ten minutes at each Union Meeting for discussion of their problems. Probably one of the common problems is the preliminary music. It has much to do with the spirit of the meeting?it should prepare us for thought and reflection?stir devotion and transmit a spiritual message to the congregation. The organist brings the first message of the day with preliminary voluntary. Does it create the proper atmosphere for the meeting?does it add dignity to the occasion? How carefully have we planned the first message? They should consider what to play and how to play it. Choice of music has a great deal to do with the success of the meeting. It involves three requirements?it must suit the congregation, suit ourselves, and must be fitting to the occasion. The playing of music should be a positive element?the congregation is receptive and ready to be influenced. John Ruskin said, "Technique is only skill, art is mystery and spiritual power. The performer's task is to bring out the special quality of beauty that lies in music."
PRESIDENTS' BREAKFAST President Louise Y. Robison, Presiding
This very important gathering of the Relief Society was held in the Recreation Room of the Lion House, Friday morning, April 3, 1936. The tables were bright with Spring flowers in the gold and blue tints. The menu was delicious, and the entertainment of a most unusual character. Selections from the operetta "One Eternal Round," written by Gertrude O. Keeler and Nell S. Hatch, of Juarez Stake Relief Society, were directed by Mrs. R. A. Brower of Wells Stake. The occasion was delightful in every respect, and memorable from the resolution which was proposed by Jennie B. Knight and passed unanimously.
RECRUITING OUR RANKS Jennie B. Knight, Member of the General Board
Dear Presidents: The members of the General Board are deeply impressed with what you and your groups have accomplished, and like you, they are vitally interested in the future responsibilities of this very important organization. You select women, are pace-setters, and upon you depends the success of our unparalleled program for the betterment of the family which is still the most important agency of civilization. There is some indifference to our cause among the women of the Church, and time's relentless stream is bearing many of those we love away, and as always, there is need of recruiting our ranks in order that the work may go steadily on. We encourage you in the methods you have adopted in increasing your membership and wish now to call your special attention to a rich source from which to recruit new members?namely, our daughters. To this end it is proposed that we inaugurate a Daughters' Day in all the Relief Societies of the Church. The event has two purposes: first, to magnify the blessing of Motherhood; second, to have daughters, who are not members of the Society, give the program, as a means of interesting them in the activities of the Society so that later they will be anxious to join our ranks. It is desired that you do not change the programs for this event, but that those outlined in the Magazine be used. After the regular business of the day, the entire program, including special music or other features, should be given by the daughters as "guest artists." It is proposed that the day to be set apart as Daughters' Day should be the anniversary of the birth of the General Relief Society President who has given the most daughters to the world. Upon investigation we find this falls upon the anniversary of the birth of Clarissa Smith Williams, the sixth General President, who was the mother of eight daughters. The day is April 21st. It would be a gracious thing if some of the members, the visiting teachers, or neighbors, would occasionally volunteer to care for the little children so that daughters may attend and participate in the activities of the organization. After favorable comment by the Stake Presidents, it was voted unanimously to adopt this plan.
FIRST GENERAL SESSION
WHAT RELIEF SOCIETY MEANS TO THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Radie O. Hyde, Pres. Ensign Stake Relief Society
First, may I ask this question, "What does the Relief Society mean to its members?" It means service in its noblest sense; service to God's children, therefore service to God. And through that service rich opportunity for development of self. "I was an hungered and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger and ye took me in, naked and ye clothed me; I was sick and ye visited me; I was in prison and ye came unto me."
Thus spoke our Savior in ancient times, but in our time, that same cry of gratitude and thanksgiving has sprung from the throats of thousands of our people and too, the strangers within our gates, who have been fed and clothed and released from prisons of doubt and despair by a great band of Relief Society women engaged in Christ-like service In the early days of the Church when the people were so persecuted, when sickness was rampant with no adequate facilities for combating it, when immigrants were arriving almost daily who must be fed and housed until they could provide homes of their own, the women of the organization had little time for anything but welfare work; however here was a wonderful opportunity for service and because they gave it, and gave it willingly, they came to love it. No night was too long to sit by the bed side of a sick friend or neighbor and minister to his needs and no disease was so dangerous but these same women willingly performed those last loving services of washing and preparing for burial their dead. The educational field has not been neglected. In those first early days even when the women met and planned their welfare work, they discussed current topics of interest and did much to promote faith in each other through testimony bearing; however in reading of the growth and development of the Relief Society we find that many constructive and educational movements, each of particular interest to the women of their time, were undertaken, some of which were national and international in scope.
Various other activities too numerous to mention, called for service of a high order.
