Notes From the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
The beginning of the year, the time of good resolutions, brings to mind the fact that the annual dues are again to be paid. The value of paying dues promptly has been demonstrated; and it is most gratifying to the Relief Society to note the manner in which the sisters respond to constructive suggestions. The dues for 1929 should be sent to the stake secretary not later than the last of February, and the portion due to the General Board should reach the General Secretary by March 31.
It is a matter of regret that we have not space to print all the fine reports of Relief Society work from every quarter of the field. We aim to make the scope as wide as possible, expressive of the varied forms of activity claiming the attention of our organization, practical, progressive and, as one educator has said, full of soul. The reports of lesson work, of civic campaigns, of teachers' conventions, of ward conferences, bazaars, flower shows, health campaigns, are all eloquent of this spirit. During the past year, the class leaders' conventions have been outstanding in the development of leadership and of improvement in the fine art of teaching; they will bear abundant fruit.
Millard Stake. On July 17, 1928, a class leaders' convention was held in the Fillmore ward chapel, President Hattie Partridge presiding. "Teacher-training," "Better Methods of Teaching," and "Better Teachers," were the subjects for discussion. At 2 p. M. Departmental work was held by the following groups: presidents, secretaries, visiting teachers, class leaders, choristers and organists, literary, theology and social service workers. President Partridge asked the wards to endeavor to have 100% in attendance. One ward came to that standard and all were represented.
North Sanpete Stake. In North Sanpete stake, on August 24, 1928, the Relief Society board conducted a class leaders' convention for workers in all ward organizations of the stake. President Elizabeth D. Christensen was in charge. Elder Guy C. Wilson, the principal speaker, discussed "Better Teacher-Training, Better Qualified teachers, and Teaching."
Benson Stake. Perhaps the largest number of people to attend a convention in Smithfield was that of the Relief Society convention of Benson stake on August 21, 1928. By 9 a. M. The meeting was filled to an overflow. Two sessions were held under the direction of President Effie A. Green. At the close of the afternoon meeting art work was displayed in the quilt contest; each Relief Society entered a competing quilt. The afternoon program was completed by a rug show and a flower show.
Maricopa Stake. This stake, on September 25, 1928, held a very successful class leaders' and visiting teachers' convention. After the opening exercises and roll call showing 130 present, the workers divided into two departments. The visiting teachers, under the care of President Mary A. Clark, considered, with discussions, subjects of interest presented to them by stake officers and others. Class leaders were under the immediate care of stake class directors. Approved methods of presenting lessons were set forth by Professor J. C. Anderson of the Mesa High School.
Tintic Stake. The Tintic stake class leaders' convention was held on September 9, 1928, President Elizabeth Boswell presiding. There were present 75 officers, teachers and members, also representatives of the Priesthood. An address, "Adult Education," was given by Dean L. John Nuttall of the Brigham Young University. Musical numbers were furnished by the Eureka ward Relief Society. Ninety were in attendance at the afternoon session, which included Relief Society workers and members of the Priesthood. Departmental work of presidents, secretaries, choristers and organists was held. Dean Nuttall met with class leaders and members and lectured on "The Beautification of the Home." He also demonstrated, from the Child Study Course, the social service lesson on "How the Child Learns to Express Himself in Language." Musical numbers were rendered by the Mammoth and Goshen ward Relief Societies.
Woodruff Stake. The Woodruff stake Relief Society held class leaders' convention on September 20, 1928, a splendid representation from the different wards of the stake being present. Sixty-five were at the morning meeting, all wards but one being represented. Professor Guy C. Wilson, who is in charge of teacher-training for the Church, was the principal speaker. The keynote of his address was that the Church exists only to serve. "When effective service ceases, the Church is dead. The Church is thoroughly wide awake to the needs of better teaching methods. The basic law of all growth is activity."
Boise Stake. Under the direction of the stake class leaders, an enthusiastic group of Relief Society workers gathered for the Boise stake class leaders' convention, which was held on September 15, 1928. An interesting program was rendered and those present regarded the convention a pronounced success.
Rigby Stake (Lewisville Ward). The Lewisville ward has made a record with the visiting teachers, having 100% in visits for seven years. In such a large and widely scattered ward, this is an accomplishment worthy of real pride. Roosevelt Stake. In the early autumn the Relief Societies of Roosevelt Stake held a flower show. All Relief Society sisters were interested in this project, many exhibiting their flowers. No one else was more anxious that her flowers should look just right than was a Lamanite sister, 87 years old. She had planted flowers in early spring and had carried water to them during the long, hot, dry summer. When the September days came, she was rewarded with splendid blooms; her efforts had not been in vain. In the flower show she had fifteen different varieties on display. Solicitous that these blooms should be arranged just to her special liking, she had traveled eighteen miles on horseback to give them the proper arrangement. Little wonder that she was awarded the first prize. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 99 REORGANIZATIONS Since the publication of the last "Notes from the Field" the following changes have been made in stake organizations: Carbon: Mrs. Margaret E. Marcusen has been released as Secretary-Treasurer and Mrs. Belle John has been chosen to succeed her. North Sevier: Mrs. Malissa Crane was appointed Stake President. Pocatello: In the reorganization the following ex-officers were sustained: Martha Pugmire, President; Lillie Reddish, First Counselor; Ellen D. Walton, Second Counselor; Gladys R. Hall, Secretary and Treasurer. Parowan: Reorganized, November 25, 1928. All officers were released. Barbara M. Adams, President; Nellie M. Clark, First Counselor; Maude M. Dallon, Second Counselor; Anna Rasmussen, Secretary and Treasurer.