PRIMARY REUNION.
	A reunion of the P. A. of Grouse Creek
was held at that place May 20th, at 3 p.m.,
Coun. Elizabeth Atkinson presiding. After
the opening exercises, the programme was ren-
dered as follows. An Essay, by James Batter-
age, entitled, "Tattling;" Song, Mary E. Barlow
and Camma Atkinson, entitled, "Strike, Strike
for Victory;" Recitation, Frances Toyne, "The
Complaints of the Poor;" Song, Henry and
Willard Hales, entitled, "Remember Poor
Mother at Home;" Essay, Emily Paskett, "The
Busy Bee;" Song, Alice and Fanny Kimber,
"Dry Your Tears, Dear Mother;" Recitation,
Etta McLaus, entitled, "Ah, No;" Song, James


Simpson and company, "Sabbath School;"
Dialogue, Lottie Paskett and Annie Kimber
"A Foolish Habit;" Song, Mary E. Toyne and
company, "Write me a Letter From Home;"
Song, Mary E. Barlow and Camma Atkinson,
"Touch not the Wine Cup, my Boy;" Recita-
tion, Hattie Fletcher, "Guilty, or not Guilty."
There were several others very good, but too
lengthy to put all the names down.
	Bro. P. Paskett, Coun. E. Atkinson, Alice
Kimber and Sister Betterage each made en-
couraging and interesting remarks; also Sister
P. Hales.
	Coun. E. Atkinson spoke of the coming of
June 1st, to be celebrated as May day, as it
was out late President Brigham Young's birth-
day, and said we had better celebrate that day;
selected three as a committee to take charge
and make out a programme. Closed by bless-
ing the children.
	Meeting closed by singing, "Dearest Child-
ren." Benediction by Coun. Alice Kimber.
	Members thirty-three, visitors twenty-one."
				JAMES BETTERAGE, Sec.
				------
		PRIMARY CELEBRATION.
	A grand celebration was held in Rexburg,
on June 1st, celebrating the late President
Brigham Young's birthday. The programme
was rendered as follows: Singing by the Rex-
burg Primary Choir. Prayer by the Chaplain,
Earnest Ricks. Singing by the choir. Open-
ing remarks by Bishop T. E. Ricks, in behalf
of the children. The May-queen, Marintha
Norris, was then crowned by the Archbishop,
Charles Fogg, and an appropriate song was
sung by the maids of honor.
	Coun. Wm. F. Rigby spoke with power, and
gave some excellent advice, that will be
cherished in after years.
	A recitation by Jannie Holman, and a song
by the Misses Elliots.
	Bro. Fogg then addressed the congregation.
In his remarks he spoke of the good our late
President Brigham Young had done, and the
love the Latter-day Sains had for him. A
song was then sung by the maids of honor,
and a declamation given by Mrs. S. A. Barnes.
	Prest. T. E. Ricks then addressed the
audience and spoke well. He was filled with
the Spirit of the Lord, and his remarks sank
deep into the hearts of all present, to bud and
bloom in future years. A song was then sung
by Mrs. Emily C. Anderson, and a declamation
given by Miss Fannie E. Paul.
	Bro. James Unsworth spoke of the goodness
of the Lord, and felt pleased to take part in
the celebration of Prest. Brigham Young's
birthday, and gave many good and interesting
instructions. A song was then sung by the
maids of honor.
	Coun. Emma Paul thought we had indeed
had a treat in having our beloved Prest., T. E.
Ricks, and his Coun., W. F. Rigby, in our
midst; felt that a good influence had prevailed.
A song was then sung by Rosetta Anderson.
	Prest. S. A. Barnes then arose and tendered
a vote of thanks to the committee that had got
out the material and put up the swings for the 
entertainment.
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by
the Chaplain.
	The children were then formed in procession
and marched down Main St. The children
sang several songs while marching. Prest.
Ricks gave them what candy was in his store,
Bro. Wm. Paul gave several hundred marbles,
which were divided among the boys, and Bros.
Durrans and Winters gave each child a sack
of candy and nuts as they were passing their
store. The children then marched back to the
meeting house, where the picnic was prepared.
The afternoon sports consisted of games,
swinging, and a dance for the children. The
day's entertainment closed with a grand ball
in the Rexburg hall.
		S. A. BARNES, Prest,
		EMMA PAUL,
