OUR PRESENT SITUATION.

	The present time is one of vast importance
to the youth of Zion. The old, and those who
have borne the burden and hardship of intro-
ducing the Gospel to this generation, are pass-
ing away, and the continuation of the work,
they have begun will fall upon the shoulders
of their "sons and daughters;" and the questions
of to-day are, "Are they prepared for the great
responsibilities that will rest upon them?" "Do
they realize the magnitude of the undertak-
ing?" "Have they embraced the opportunities
for learning that have been given them from
time to time, and sought to obtain a knowledge
for themselves." The Lord says He will have
a pure people, a people that are free from the
evils of the world, that are willing to bear the
scoffs and jeers of the ungodly, all for His sake,
who died to redeem and bring us back into the
presence of our Father.
	How will we be able to stand unshaken, un-
less we know for ourselves, unless we live
prayerful and humble, pure, virtuous lives, be
chaste, honest and long suffering, seeking the
Lord with mighty faith? If we do not know
for ourselves that the Lord has truly spoken in
this our day, seek diligently with a contrite
heart, or we cannot stand the trials that are
before us in the near future. The "Lord has
seen fit to withdraw from the midst of His peo-
ple" their leaders and mighty men, and, as it
were, they are left to themselves for a season,
to try their integrity to see if they will still
cling fast to the iron rod.
	But it will be no trifling thing to be a Saint in
very deed in the future. The adversary
has great power over the people, insomuch that
many are falling by the way, and cannot stand,
even some that have had great manifestations
of the power of God. Then, how important it
is that we should be on the watchtower, that
we may be prepared for anything that may
come, that we may not be taken by sur-
prise, that our lamps may be full of oil, that
when the Bridegroom comes we will be ready
to receive Him.
	Our associations are organized for the pur-
pose of learning the principles of the Gospel,
and the sciences of life and health, and, in
fact, everything that tends to elevate, instruct
and ennoble the sons and daughters of Zion,
and prepare us for the great events and re-
sponsibilities that will rest upon the young in
the near future.
	Then, my dear sisters; let us strive to be one,
for the Lord says unless we are one we are not
His. Let us try to build each other up; put
away all evil from our hearts, and seek to do
good. Let us pray for our young sisters of
the presidency, that the Lord will inspire their
hearts, that wisdom and understanding may be
given them, and that the power of speech and
language may be theirs, so that they may be
able to impart the instruction necessary for
the advancement of our society.
	Praying for the blessings of God to rest
upon all who try to build up Zion, I remain,
	Your sister,
		S. A. FULLMER.
Y. L. Manuscript Paper,
	Orangevile, Emery County.


