OLD FOLKS' EXCURSION.

	The regular annual excursion of the OLD FOLKS
of this city and adjacent towns and settlements,
came off on Thursday, July 12, under the manage-
ment of the "Old Folks' Committee," that has
made such a complete success of these excursions,
year after year, and has given the aged so much
real enjoyment in tho declining years of their
lives. The destination this time was Lehi, and
right here we cannot forbear repeating the expres-
sion made by Elder George Goddard on the last
memorable occasion, both on account of its origin-
ality, and also that our readers may know to whom
the idea was first suggested, that has since de-
veloped so much benevolence and reverence for
those whose days are sad and sober, and who are
watching the sunset of life, more than the morn-
ing of its rising. Bro. Goddard remarked, in ad-
dressing the audience at Lehi: "When I pass be-
hind the veil, my first work shall be to inquire for
the good angel who first whispered to my colleague,
C. R. Savage, the idea of these excursions."
	Bishop Cutler, of Lehi, and a large number of
brethren and sisters, had made every preparation
possible beforehand, that the old folks might have
an enjoyable time. The grove where they met is
only about 200 yards from the U. C. depot. The
ground was cleared and the shade made complete;
one thousand feet of table room was constructed
and provided with seats, also extra seats; a fine
shower in the morning had laid the dust, so that
all was as comfortable as possible. The com-
mittee on decorations had ornamented the tables
with flowers, and flags, banners, mottoes, etc.,
were profuse. The Lehi brass and silver bands
were on hand, playing their sweetest strains.
	Besides the old people, the committee and visi-
tors, His Excellency, Gov. West, accompanied
the party. First on the programme after the arrival
was the serving of the picnic, the bands playing
during the time.
	At one p.m. the exercises commenced by the
singing of the Old Folks' Choir, "Ere the Sun
goes down." Prayer by Elder George Goddard.
Music by the band. Address of welcome, Bishop
T. R. Cutler, who thanked the committee for
bringing the party to Lehi, and expressed himself
pleased at the Governor's presence. Music on
bagpipes, W. C. Dunbar, and by the bands, "Hail
Columbia. Bro. Savage introduced Gov. West,
whose speech we give as reported:
	"This, to me, is a very novel experience, but a
very agreeable one. I have often met with gather-
ings of young people, but never before with
gatherings of the old. When first I came to Utah
I heard of this yearly movement, and was struck
with its beauty and benevolence, but had no idea
of its extent. This is the first time I have met
with you—I hope it will not be the last, I think

[Column 2]

there is not in the world such a beautiful and lov-
ing custom. I know not to whom we are first in-
debted for its beginning, but I understand it is to
a gentleman here present. I believe I can say for
him, that if he has never done another good act
in his life, this act should entitle him to a place in
heaven. All titles of honor here to-day are titles
of age only. The commandment is, "Honor thy
father and thy mother." To-day you are manifest-
ing love, honor and obedience for the old. What
have these gone through the last forty years? All
remember that forty years ago this spot was a
desert. Through the labors of such as these, we
have to-day our beautiful and comfortable sur-
roundings. The young who are here to-day are
also beautiful because of the truth, 'It is more
blessed to give than to receive.' I rejoice to see
you all so happy and contented. I hope you will
continue to be blessed and prosperous, and that
as long as the sun shines and the breezes blow,
this happy and appropriate custom may con-
tinue."
	Three cheers for the Governor was heartily re-
sponded to. Bro. Dunbar sang one of the favor-
ite songs, "My Old Wife and I," and the Lehi
choir, also Bros. Goddard and Willis, furnished
vocal music.
	Father Bergen, 96 years old, spoke a few words.
Mrs. Julia Silverwood and the Old Folks' Choir
sang, "Dear Heart We're Growing Old."
	Prest. A. O. Smoot, of Utah Stake, himself a
veteran, as well as a pioneer and colonizer in the
Territory, addressed the assemblage. Alluded in
his remarks to the presence of the Executive, and
said, "It is good for governors and rulers to be
acquainted with their people, and see them in their
homes and home-lives."
	Bro. Savage, with some witty and suggestive
sayings, presented a gold medal, given by Swaner
& Bro., of Salt Lake City, to Bro. Samuel Mul-
liner, who tanned the first leather in the valley
from which has descended the old-time phrase
used so commonly in the past, and applied to so
many things, and even to the young ladies—"Valley
Tan." "Auld Lang Syne" was sung by the choir,
and then Bro. Goddard spoke to the people, tell-
ing them it was the 13th anniversary, and that
there were 600 people on the grounds over 70
years of age. Three cheers for Bro. Savage were
given, and he responded, saying: "We have a gold
medal here for the man who turned the first sod in
Utah—M. C. Carter. He is now in the Peniten-
tiary, but we will send him the medal. You can
see the plow in the museum." Bro. Carter, let us
explain, is serving a term of imprisonment for
conscience' sake. Geo. Openshaw, over 70, gave
a recitation in Lancashire dialect.
	Bro. H. W. Naisbitt spoke a short time, and
alluded to what faith had accomplished in connec-
tion with works in turning "these once deserts
into fruitful fields." Bro. Goddard called for the
owner of the grounds, and was told he was
present; his name is Robert Gilchrist. He blessed
him and said "the place should be sacred from
now on." Old Folks' Choir sang, "Leaf by Leaf
the Roses Fall." One hundred prizes were then
distributed according to the best judgment of the
committee. Prizes were then awarded to each of
the four Utah pioneers who were present, viz.:
Millen Atwood, E. D. Barnham, Jacob Weiler
and Royal Barney. A variety of gifts were dis-
tributed to old people in the congregation. There
were a number of the members of the Mormon
Battalion present.
	It is estimsted that there were 3,000 people on
the grounds. The affair was a most enjoyable one
throughout, and will be long remembered by the
good people of Lehi, as well as the old folks who
participated in the day's enjoyment.
	Thanks to the Old Folks' Committee, and to all
who contribute from time to time to give the aged
honor, reverence and comfort, and once a year to
accord them a season of recreation and the oppor-

[Column 3]

tunity of seeing each other and greeting brothers,
sisters and friends.


