PIONEER DAY.

     If there is one day in the year that appeals to
the patriotism of the citizens of Utah more
strongly than another, next to Independence Day,
it is the day when the first company of Pioneers
arrived in this valley, on the 24th of July, 1847.
Though in poverty, yet with an indomitable will
and strong faith in God, they faced crude nature
in all its forbidding aspects, and laid the founda-
tion of one of the grandest States on the Ameri-
can continent, which Utah, the “Queen of the
West,” is sure to become in the near future.
     It is therefore but a fitting tribute to the memory
of the Pioneers who have died and also a tribute
of honor to those now living, that the following


programme of exercises be carried out next Tues-
day in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City.
	In addition to the Pioneers' entrance to Utah,
it is also desirable to perpetuate the memory of
the Pioneer Sunday Schools in 1849,
in the Fourteenth Ward of this city, by
Richard Ballantyne, and its wonderful growth to
the present time:—Ex.
PROGRAMME.
	Music, Sixth Ward Silver Band; Song, "Our
Mountain Home so Dear," Sunday School Chil-
dren; Prayer by Assistant General Superintend-
ent George Goddard; Song, Tabernacle Choir;
Opening Address,by President Wilford Woodruff;
Organ Solo,Professor Jos.J.Daynes;Five minutes'
Address, Brother Richard Ballantyne; Song, on
page 24, "Beautiful Zion," Sunday School Children;
Sentiments by General Superintendent George Q.
Cannon; The Soldiers' Chorus, McIntyre's Glee
Class; Speech by one of the Pioneers; "Hail
Columbus," Brass Band; Remarks about the
Plow that turned the first sod in Utah; Solo, Mrs.
Agnes Thomas; Xylophone Solo, "Andante and
Polka," A. Beesley; Song, Tabernacle Choir;
Sentiments; Song, "Utah the Queen of the West,"
Sunday School Children; Benediction.
	George Goddard, C. F. Wilcox, John C. Cutler,
Thos. C. Griggs, W. Willes, Thos. E. Taylor and
J. W. Summerhays, general committee.
	Thos. McIntyre, E. Beesley and Jos. J. Daynes
committee on Music.
	Lorenzo D. Young, C. R. Savage and Francis
Cope, committee on Pioneers.
	James Dwyer, W. C. Morris, Priscilla Jennings,
Matilda Barratt and Priscilla Staines, committee
on decorations.
	An invitation is extended to those outside of
Salt Lake City to be present on the occasion.
	The exercises at the Tabernacle will commence
promptly at 10 a.m. The south and west gates of
the Temple Block will be open at 8 o'clock.


