OBITUARY.
	A sad and terrible accident occurred within a quarter of
a mile of Antonito, in this county (Conejos).  On the 27th
day of June, Sister Maria Gertrude Peterson accompanied
her husband, who was going to the county seat on business,
and upon returning, about a quarter of a mile from
Antonito, Sister Peterson raised her parasol, which
frightened the horse so that he ran away.  Sister Peterson
was determined to jump out of the vehicle in spite of the
entreaties of her husband, who was trying to quiet her as
well as to stop the frightened horse; she fell upon the


ground. Bro. Peterson soon obtained control of the horse,
and returned to find his wife lying on her face, almost
senseless. She was soon conveyed to the town of Antonito,
where two doctors and many friends did all in their power
to save her, but it was unavailing; she passed away from
this life at half-past eight in the evening, to join her two
children, who died of whooping-cough in 1872, sixteen
years before. She was born in Mara, New Mexico, on the
7th of Sept., 1850. She was married to L. Marcos
Peterson, February 17, 1863. In the year 1875 she accom-
panied her husband to Utah, where they embraced the
Gospel; they were baptized by Apostle Erastus Snow. They
returned to their home in Colorado, and gathered with
others of the Lamanite people, who had embraced the
truth through their preaching, to Savoia, New Mexico.
From there they came to the San Luis Valley, where they
have lived ever since. Sister Peterson was of the true
blood of Israel, and devoted to her religion. She was
reserved and lady-like in her appearance; was a woman of
good judgment, and was a bright example to her sex; she
was greatly beloved by all her native people, and also by
all the Latter-day Saints with whom she was acquainted.
She was hospitable and kind; to know her was to love her;
when once her friendship was gained it was lasting and
true. The love and esteem in which she was held by the
community was shown by the hundreds who attended her
funeral, from different parts of the county. The services
were held in the Manassa meeting house, June 29, 1888.
The speakers were Prest. John Morgan and Prest. S. S.
Smith. After the ceremonies were over she was laid to
rest, to await a glorious resurrection with the just. She
leaves a sorrowing husband, mother and brother, and many
friends, who look forward to that happy time, when we
shall all meet again, where we shall be free from dangers,
sickness and pain.
