CONSOLATION.
I lifted the curtains of the morning, 
And I opened the windows of day, 
Peering thro' dim shadows of dawning,
That darkened the heavenly way;
I longed and I watched, for some token,
To heal a poor heart, that was broken.

I felt that some angel of pity,
Might have paused at the gateway of light.
Ere she entered the beautiful city,
Where there is no sorrow nor night,
And standing where sunlight was streaming, 
On the threshold in vision half-dreaming, 

In her beauty and loveliness glowing,
With the goal of her hopes just in sight,
Her white robes all gracefully flowing,
And dazzled with splendor so bright—
Gaze backward, beholding our grief,
Filled with yearning to give us relief.

Remembering the clouds and the darkness,
That had shrouded our earth-life below,
That mortal probation must know,
Retrospection would surely awaken
Regrets for the loved ones forsaken.

I listened, half-conscious of something,
A presence that beamed on my sight,
And I wondered if angels were noting
The rapturous joy and delight,
That gladdened the face of the woman
as she wafted a sigh for the human.

I pondered in fond expectation,
Of a message from regions above,
And I bowed in intense supplication,
In humility, meekness and love; 
But I heard only sighing and sobbing,
Tho' the great pulse of nature was throbbing.

I knew, by an inward suggestion,
That a presence of angels was near,
And a feeling, no language could question,
Thrilled thro' me and banished all fear,
As I thought of a promise once given,
When we spoke of our parting and heaven.

The mist on the mountain was fading, 
And the vision, so sweet, fled away,
And with it, the soft, sombre shading,
That encircled the earth, cold and grey;
And the sun, in his splendor arising,
The world with fresh light was baptizing.

The poet, now fully awakened,
Soliloquized, "What of the night?
Aye, what had the vision betokened,
That vanished so quickly from sight?"
But the morning broke forth into singing,
And the welkin with music was ringing.

The world was awakened to gladness, 
And the voices of night were no more; 
But the echoes of sighing and sadness,
Had pierced to a far distant shore;
And the Father, with infinite feeling,
Had poured out the balm of His healing.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]

[For the Exponent.]
