DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I came from Manti fully intending to make


an extra exertion in regard to writing for the
EXPONENT, but I find the truth of the adage
"Man proposes, but God disposes." I had
only been at home one day, and that was Society
conference, when a poor boy came to me, sick.
To make it intelligible, I must go back and
tell who he was or is. A small company of
nine members, came from Palestine last fall;
converts who had been baptized by our son.
They are all Germans or Russian Germans,
and very fine people. The rest got work, and 
left us but this young man, eighteen years old,
who remained most of the time with us, and,
owing to his natural abilities and kind disposi-
tion, we became much attached to him. He
called us "pa and ma." He went away to work
this spring, and came back sick, as we supposed,
with rheumatism and fever, but the doctor said
it was scrofula, and he would die of blood
poison. We have stood over him night and
day, and I hope never to witness such a thing
again.
	My object in giving this to the public is not
to tell about the poor boy's sufferings, but to
draw a moral, if I can properly express my
feelings, and tell my sisters how little we know
of the world, its sins and sufferings—that the
sins of the fathers shall be visited on the child-
ren is a terrible curse. Nevertheless the fiat
has gone forth, and it is unchangeable.
	One of the Palestine brethren tells us that
such things are common in that country, and
that the Arabs rot and die in, if possible, a
more terrible way. The crime for which
Sodom was destroyed is rotting them down
when mere boys.
	People will dare to criticise the Bible, and
say it must be a terrible God who would order
whole nations to be slain, sparing neither
women nor children. But God knew their
natures, and knew that wherever the seed came
in contact with Israel it would pollute them.
God knows many things, which we ignorant,
short-sighted mortals cannot understand, nor
do not dream of. What do those living in
pure homes, with healthy children around
them, know of rottenness and corruption? It
does not come under their observation; their
imagination cannot embrace it. We hear of
the wickedness of the world, but from the pure
atmosphere of our home circles we do not
trouble ourselves about the sins we do not have
to answer for. Our husbands are virtuous,
and our children are pure, and we grieve that
God should have laid a commandment on His
people to keep them so.
	He says, "If I will that I shall raise up a
pure seed unto myself, I will command my
people." Individuals are rotting, nations are
rotting, and disease and death are strewn
broadcast and transmitted to posterity.
	If we could visit the hospitals, we would see
sights to make the strongest shudder, for our
own fair land is not free from this terrible curse,
nor the crime that breeds it. And yet the
country is indignant that men should marry
and raise pure children, and throw the protec-
tion of God's law about the family circle.
Men must be persecuted and thrown into prison
for carrying out the laws of God, and protect-
ing their wives and children, while bagnios
are licensed for the "protection of respectable
people."
