EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THB Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th Ward in this city,
held an interesting meeting in the Ward Assembly
Rooms, Tuesday evening, July 10 Mrs. Mary P.
Young, Prest of the Association, and Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. The hall was handsomely
fitted up for the occasion, and roses and bouquets
of lovely flowers were scattered here and there,
giving a soft, sweet tone to the effect of the decor-
ating, at the same time, suggesting the refinement
and culture of those who had the management of
the affair. There were quite a number of visitors
present by invitation. The singing and music
was excellent, the selection of the songs also
testifying of the good taste of the young ladies.
The exercises of the meeting were of a high order
and gave good promise of the intellectual and
spiritual improvement and growth of the Associa-
tion. During the evening one of the young sis-
ters, a visitor arose and sung inspirationally "A song
of Zion," such as we have never heard before
since the death of our dear mother Whitney. Her
voice was clear and musical and the highest notes
were full of melody. It was in answer to prayer,
and was the out-pouring of the Holy Spirit in such
rich draughts that all present felt the effect there-

[Column 2]

of. After the meeting was over ice cream and
cake were served, and all felt they had enjoyed a
season of refreshing from on high. The culti-
vation of spiritual gifts lifts the soul into the higher
atmosphere of thought and feeling and helps one
to attain to the perfection which is the aim of
every true Latter-day Saint.
	A NEW stimulus is likely to be given to sericul-
ture in the Territory of Utah, and as there are
many throughout the valleys of this fruitful region
who have made great efforts in this direction, we
feel sure they will be glad to learn that there is
likely to be renewed exertions made by those who
will aim to make success of the undertaking.
Senator Chandler has introduced a bill into the
Congress of the United States, asking for an ap-
propriation for $150,000 to establish silk stations
for the encouragement of this important branch
of industry in the United States. Father Graves,
of Provo, who has for years been laboring untir-
ingly in this enterprise, has written to the Agricul-
tural department in Washington, and laid before
them some details of what has been done, and
what can be done in Utah in this direction. Now
he is anxious to obtain further statistical informa-
tion, that he may more perfectly present the sub-
ject to Congress, and obtain such help as is needed
for Utah. Bro Graves wishes to obtain positive
information of the number of mulberry trees in
Utah, and this can be done more readily by the
sisters reporting to the Relief Society in each
ward and Stake. He also wishes to ascertain the
number of persons that have been in the past, or
who are now engaged practically in seri-culture in
any of its various departments. All this can be
done systematically through the Relief Society,
because of its perfect organization throughout
the Territory. Bro. Graves assures us that the
Governor of the Territory is backing him in this
project, and also the Chamber of Commerce, but
as the Relief Society has been active in the work
of seri-culture, it will be a most interesting fact to
know what has really been done by the sisters
in this home industry. It is to be hoped that the
Relief Society everywhere in Utah will respond
as soon as convenient to this request. Presidents
of all the branches of the Relief Society in Utah
are requested to lay this matter before the sisters
in their first meeting after receiving this notice,
and urge upon the secretaries the importance of
collecting these statistics. Please make your re-
port from each branch to the president or secre-
tary of the Relief Society of the Stake in which
you are located, and after these reports are ex-
amined by the Stake President and her board, she
is hereby notified to forward them to this office,
addressed to Mrs. E. B. Wells, Salt Lake City,
(Corresponding Secretary of the Central Board of
the Relief Society). The Cor. Sec. will then pre-
pare a suitable and full report for Bro. Graves
to send to the Agricultural Department at Wash-
ington, and also as a record of woman's work in
Utah, which should be published in the EXPON-
ENT, in connection with other matters.


