ANNIVERSARY MEETING.

	On Thursday, July 19th, there will be an Anni-
versary Meeting in Ogden, at the Tabernacle, to
commemorate the last visit of Prest. Brigham
Young to that city, and also to celebrate the first
appointment of a President to preside over the
sisters' organizations in a Stake capacity. Prest.
Young, at the meeting in the Ogden Tabernacle,
July 19, 1877, appointed Mrs. Jane S. Richards
President over the Relief Society and Young
Ladies' Associations in all Weber Stake, and said
quarterly reports were to be given of the condi-
tion of each Society, and gave much valuable in-
struction at that time. This was the example
Sister E. R. Snow Smith followed out in organiz-
ing the sisters' Associations in the several Stakes
of Zion, and which has been made so uniform
since throughout the Church. Prest. Brigham
Young, Elder John Taylor, Elder Franklin D.
Richards, and other brethren gave excellent in-
struction on that great occasion.
	Prest. Young in his remarks said, concerning
the mothers: "Mothers are the moving instru-
ments in the hands of Providence to guide the
destinies of nations," and he exhorted mothers to
teach their children not to make war, but to teach
them peace. He asked the question, "Who gives
the key to the nations of the earth? It is the
mothers, and not the fathers!" Prest. Young on
that occasion expressed himself pleased with the
way in which the sisters had responded to his
counsel in regard to the storing of grain.
	His instructions were most fatherly, and it
seemed as though every one present felt the influ-
ence thereof. It was the last time he spoke to the
Relief Society and Retrenchment Associations,
and it seems most proper to commemorate the
event.
	It was the intention of Mrs. Richards, last sum-
mer, whom he then appointed, to have held an
anniversary at the end of the ten years, but the
severe illness of Prest. John Taylor last year,
caused her to postpone it till this year. It is now
eleven years since the time, and it is expected
that it will be a general rejoicing. There have
been elaborate preparations made for a dinner
party by the sisters in Weber County, and 
as they have been so very successful in times past
in matters of this kind, there is no doubt that all
things will be done in order, and the utmost har-
mony. The dinner will be served in the Third
Ward Meeting House, from 12 to 2. Services
commence at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
	There are a large number of people from Salt
Lake City going to attend the meetings. Several
of the Apostles are expected to be present.


