WOMEN IN LITERATURE
	"Such a superiority do the pursuits of litera-
ture possess above every other occupation, that
even he who attains but a mediocrity in them

[Column 2]

merits the pre-eminence above those that excel
the most in the common and vulgar profes-
sions."—HUME.
	The field of literature is delightful, full of
refreshing draughts, beautiful scenes, melodic
sounds.
	There are many delightful paths in life,
where one can wander at one's will and breathe
and live and learn, almost without an effort,
but there is a fair, beautiful, winding path,
tempting to the soul, which leads into a broad
and glorious field, where the multitude fain
would revel, but only the choice few can enter.
The field of literature. In this charming place
all the senses are awakened, and tho' the body
may be in calm repose, the soul will still, in
the keenest sense, enjoy all the pleasures and
delights of life. In sweet meditation the
silver linings peer through the dreary clouds
and reveal the brightness and glory of the
heavens; the quiet, sombre dream blends with
the deepening day, revealing the faintest, fair-
est tints and shades; the sea waves wash on the
sandy beach in grand and eloquent music, the
rivers flow and the brooks ripple in rhythmic
tone, the winds whisper and sigh through the
woods and waves, the birds carol in their happy
flight, and in their blending songs all breathe
the most melodious chorus ever heard on earth;
the lives and thoughts of the flowers are told
through their perfumes in most exquisite lan-
guage, and dreams and thoughts and visions
become most real. Oh, the elysian field! how
we fain would linger there forever, and yet 'tis
with the most cautious, fearing step we even
dare stray along the path and glance only a
moment within. Oh, to be lost in such a
place, where all that annoys and sorrows mankind
is forgotten, and the delicate imagery of life be-
comes a fair reality.
	Life is too real for many to dare venture
into this path, and among the Mormon women
there has, until later days, been too much need
for practical work and labor for them to devote
much time in this field, but genius and talent
will thrust itself forward, in spite of all obsta-
cles, and we claim, among the women of Utah,
some very thoughtful, sensible, beautiful and
bright literary workers.
	It seems so natural to refer to our dear, de-
parted leader, Eliza R. Snow, as the first Utah
woman who published a book. She it is who
has precedence in almost everything pertaining
to woman's advancement among her people.
Fortune favored her in every way for a public
life, and all her surroundings and opportunities
seemed to urge and encourage her into the
path of literature. So much has been written
in the columns of the EXPONENT of this noble
lady's work, that it would be a futile attempt
to strive to add more. Her work is before the
people like an open book, and every page dis-
closes deeds and thoughts, the noblest, the
purest, the grandest one can conceive. Her
history is interwoven with the history of the
Church in all their wanderings, their sojourn-
ings, their adversity, their prosperity. It is
useless to try to pay tribute to such a character,
she is beyond the pale of all that we can say.
As a writer, "Sister Eliza" (for so we love best
to call her), ranks in the highest class. Her
early poems and letters were published in the
Deseret News, and as early as 1856 she pub-
lished her first volume of poems. Her songs
were sung by the Saints in their wanderings on
the plains, and inspired and encouraged them
on their weary way. She wrote the sweetest
and dearest of hymns—"[-]Oh, my Father, Thou

[Column 3]

that dwellest"—and all who sing or hear it
sung, feel indebted to her for the beautiful
doctrine revealed through the precious inspired
lines. The Deseret News used to be the only
medium through which the early writers could
express themselves to the people, and the very
old numbers show some of the prettiest and
choicest verses from the pen of Sarah E. Car-
michael, a young and most gifted girl. She,
some few years later, while residing in Califor-
nia, gathered her poems together and published
them in a small neat volume. Not a verse
therein which did not stamp her a poet, one to
be recognized anywhere. Miss Carmichael
gave every promise of becoming one of the
most gifted poets of the century, but, alas for
fate, a cloud more dreadful than death fell
upon her, and "her thoughts were combinations
of disjointed things," and "the glance of melan-
choly is a fearful gift."
	As Miss Snow and Miss Carmicheal found
space in the News to publish their poetic
thoughts, so did our much honored and loved
sister, Hannah Tapfield King. Mrs. King
herself says: "From a child I had been accus-
tomed to write much, and in my early married
days wrote two books, one for my girls and
one for my boys; I also wrote considerable
poetry all my life." In June, 1853, Mrs.
King left her dear England for the wilds of
America. One almost dreads to think of a
soul full of learning and poetry, reared among
the "classic shades and bowers" of Cambridge
parting forever from all the fond associations
to enter an unknown land. She knew not
what awaited her, perhaps—not even a home,
certainly not the culture and comfort among
which she had been reared, and for which her
noble nature yearned, but conquering all feel-
ings of pride and reluctance, laying such on
the altar of her faith, she bade farewell to Eng-
land, and embarked on the ship Golconda for
her new home; like so many others of our
people, giving up worldly blessings for the hope
and belief that greater blessings would be be-
stowed upon her, and they were, and have been,
and now that she has passed from earth with a
most perfect, unfailing Faith, who knows, who
would dare to estimate the heavenly, eternal
joys that are hers.
	Her lofty soul soon found, even in this re-
mote, uncultivated land, food for the mind,
and it was Mrs. King's delight to give her
thoughts to the people. Her works are mostly,
whether prose or verse, of an historic nature,
and she leans to the sublime and grand more
than the simple and beautiful style. She pub-
lished, "Women of the Scriptures," "Songs of
the Heart," and "An Epic Poem," which was
historical of the Church. Her life was pure
and good and true; she aimed to be a perfect
woman, as her own beautiful words can tell:

		"I fought the battle all my life,
		Of outward foe and inward strife,
		The strife which flesh and spirit feel,
		As keenly as the barbed steel;
		For, oh! my soul has longed to be
		A perfect thing for God to see!"

	The reading public miss and mourn for Mrs.
King, and especially do the readers of the
EXPONENT, for her lines so often illuminated
its columns, and we miss her socially. Her
conversation was full of wisdom and entertain-
ing knowledge; she possessed a superior judg-
ment on literary works, and was not only an
apt and good critic, but a most pleasing and
interesting friend.


[Column 1]

	We have another English woman poet, who
wrote in early days for the News, and whose
style is rather similar—Emily Hill Woodman-
see. Adversity, injustice and hostility always
seem to urge Mrs. Woodman[---] to call her
Muse, that she may express her feelings; and
great events and anniversaries also call forth
her poetic fire. The journey of Mrs. Wood-
mansee to these valleys was enough to kill
within her all desire, all aim to become any-
thing, almost all desire to live, for she journeyed
on foot twelve hundred miles, pushing along
a handcart, which held her bedding and pro-
visions. What will! What indomitable courage
for a young woman to undertake such a
journey, and what sublime faith she must have
had! A verse of Mrs. Woodmansee's own
can better tell her nature as a woman, her style
as a poet:

	"Keep a brave heart, tho' the waves roll high,
		Let thine aim be true as the magnet's steel;
	Look unto God, with a steadfast eye,
		And trust Him always, in woe or weal;
	Man may deceive, but God is true;
		Mortals may pander to love of pelf,
	Life angels' visits, firm friends are few;
		Trust thou in God! and thyself."

	Mrs. Woodmansee writes very little at pres-
ent for the public, but seems more engrossed in
business matters, but her nature sometimes
finds rest in pouring forth her feeling thoughts
in rhyme.
	Times becoming more prosperous, and peo-
ple advancing in every way, there came a de-
mand for more publications, and publishing
houses, and the Juvenile Instructor and Morn-
ing Herald were started. To the columns of
the Instructor Miss Lula Greene sent some
charming productions, and shortly afterwards,
in 1872, it was decided to establish in Utah a
woman's paper, and Miss Lula Greene, the
grand-niece of Brigham Young, was installed
as the Editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	This was a new era for the women of Utah.
The field, the beautiful elysian field was opened
unto them all. The EXPONENT has called
forth and urged all who wished to enter the
arena of literature, to pour their thoughts into
its columns, and to be refreshed by the draughts
of inspiration and learning which its pages
reveal.
	The Mormon women know it has been a
great boon and blessing unto them. The sisters
are, through its columns, made acquainted with
all the works of the societies and pleasures of
their reunions, the achievements of women in
all lines, here and elsewhere.
	The EXPONENT has also been a brave de-
fender of the women of Utah, and a most un-
answerable argument against the false accusa-
tions made concerning the serfdom and bond-
age of Mormon women, Miss Greene, now
Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, is one of our
sweetest poets, and though her editorial
work on the EXPONENT ceased in 1877,
she has ever since been a frequent and most
welcome contributor to its columns. Mrs.
Richards, better known as Lula, should cer-
tainly collect her poems and publish them. A
volume of them would grace the most choice
library. Lula's style is beautiful, simple and
pure, yet full of strength and principle. She
writes a great deal for children, both prose and
poetry, and seems in her happiest mood when
writing a song, a fable, an enigma or a story
for their amusement. As every one knows,
this style is most difficult, from its necessary
symplicity, but it is the style most fitting Mrs.
Richards. She aims at symplicity, and follows
it out in her life as well as her writings. It is
scarcely necessary to quote from Lula's poems,
they are so familiar in the homes of the Saints.
Our children sing her songs, work out her
enigmas, recite her poems and repeat her stories.
It is to be hoped that she may live many years,

[Column 2]

and in after time, when her family cares de-
crease, and her time may be given more to the
pleasure of writing, we may claim among us a
star, in that happiest phase of writing—Child-
ren's Literature—as bright as Louisa May
Alcott, which, though expressly for the young,
composed delights alike for all who care to read.
	In 1875, Mrs. Richard's family cares increas-
ing, she found it necessary to have an assistant
editor to the EXPONENT, and among her con-
tributors the present editor, Emmeline B.
Wells, came to her aid as a co-helper. Mrs.
Wells, though devoting much time to the
women's organizations, the grain saving, the
political and missionary work, is an indefatig-
able writer.
	When only eight years old she composed
verses which need not cause her to blush now
in later years, for they breathe the true essence
of poetry.
	Her literary work is confined almost entirely
to the EXPONENT, though a poem or a sketch
occasionally appears in the Contributor or
Tullidge's Magazine, and her verses, sketches
and criticisms are often copied in papers and
periodicals outside of Utah. Mrs. Wells has
had many flattering offers to contribute to
magazines, but has preferred to devote her
time and talent to her own people, only writing
an occasional article in defense of Mormon
women to publications elsewhere.
	Her work compels her to write on all sub-
jects, and in all styles, but her happiest style is
the ideal, the picturesque and the poetical.
When time allows, she grants herself the
pleasure of returning in imagination to her
New England home, and through the sketches
she produces we roam the dear old woods, go
blackberrying or nutting, gather ferns and
lilies from the winding brooks, and taste and
 scent the pleasures of a sadly sweet and pen-
sive childhood. Her poems are of a retrospec-
tive nature, and a memory full of the loveliest,
sweetest, dreamiest, happiest, saddest things
supplies her poetic nature with the material re-
produced in her touching verses. Mrs. Wells
has done a great deal towards bringing out
other writers, whose lack of confidence held
them from publishing worthy articles. She
also has written much for children, and her
songs are sung in the Sunday Schools and
Primaries. Her work in different ways is very
extensive, and all her time now is given to the
public; it is her greatest delight to help others
and aid in the advancement of women.	*
*	*	*	*	*	*	Mrs.
Wells' correspondence would form a very
entertianing and pleasing volume. Her letters
always contain the most interesting views, the
most delightful descriptions and the most
pleasant conversation. She is the recipient of
charming letters from many notable people,
such as the poet Whittier, Monsigneur Capel,
Madame Le Vert, Helen Hunt Jackson, and
many others, both poets and authors known to
the world.
	One of the most frequent and pleasing con-
tributors to the EXPONENT is Augusta Joyce
Crocheron, full of poetry, romance and song.
A strangely sweet writer, but a most perfect
and concise one.
	The first poem from her pen that touched my
feelings was those beautiful lines, "My Heart
and I." It reminded one very much of Mrs.
Browning, as do many other of her poems, but
they do not in the least copy after her; it is
only that same beautiful, mystic tone. Mrs.
Crocheron has had much to contend with, but
she never allows herself to lose the poetic muse,
and her prose writings are full of poetry. We
have written mostly of poetical work, but
Mrs. Crocheron has been one among the Utah
women to venture in another path. After
publishing her poems in the pretty volume
known as "The Wild Flowers of Deseret,"
and her biographies, called "Representative

[Column 3]

Women of Deseret," she turned her attention
to romance, and has three times claimed the
prize and medal offered by the Contributor
company for the best Christmas story. We
would fain say more of this gifted woman, but
space will not allow, for as we write so many
names appear before us worthy of mention
under this heading. Among the early volumes
of poetry published was one by Emily B.
Spencer, called, "Prose and Poetry," and one
since, entitled, "The Rose of Deseret," and this
lady has also contributed choice pieces to the
EXPONENT. Her style is similar to that of
Mrs. Woodmansee.
	A beautiful volume lies before me, its title,
"Autobiography and Poems by Hannah Corn-
aby."
	I never appreciated the work until a summer
some five years since, when in Spanish Fork,
this lady's home. She was beautiful in her
little quiet home, reminding one of a perfect
Saint, so quiet, so patient and so sweetly sad.
She led me through the oldest, oddest garden,
with a wicket gate and winding paths, and tall
lilacs, and hollyhocks, and roses, and weeds,
and herbs, and fruit trees, and currant bushes;
one might know the possessor of such a garden
was a poet; and her tone and voice and con-
versation only convinced me the more that she
was not only a poet but a saintly woman. Her
Autobiography is very poetical, and yet con-
tains such testimony and truth as to convince
one of the Gospel she espoused. There have
been some very interesting letters and remis-
cences contributed to the EXPONENT from the
pen of Helen Mar Whitney, and Mrs. Whitney
has also published books, one called
"Plural Marriage as Taught by Joseph the
Prophet," the other, "Why We Practice Plural
Marriage." Her writings are eagerly read,
and often call forth questions and discussions
from abroad, they contain such strong testi-
mony and doctrinal truth. Mrs. Mary J.
Tanner has published a neat volume of poems,
entitled, "Fugitive Poems," and is one of the
most interesting correspondents to the EX-
PONENT. Her "Leaves From my Journal,"
continued through several numbers, give
pleasing and cheering descriptions of different
sights in the Eastern States.
	Among the younger and most delightful
writers, we must certainly mention Lu Dalton,
whose inspiring and beautiful verses grace the
pages of the EXPONENT and Contributor.
Her poetry is of the highest rank, and also of
the most beautiful style. In the last number,
July 1, is contained a sublime poem from this
lady's pen, entitled, "Arise! Shine! For Thy
Light is Come." Of the lady herself I know
little, not even her name, but through her
correspondence and poems, I feel to know her
soul. The EXPONENT, I am sure, is proud of
such a contributor.
	Susie—Homespun—we had almost forgotton
you; no, not forgotten, but overlooked you,
because you have been so long silent. Do your
cares and missionary work keep you from tell-
ing us your experience in your gay, homely
way?
	Susie Young Gates, the daughter of Prest.
Brigham Young, is a literary light among our
young women. Her stories are full of life and
wit and pathos; her poetry is sweet and tender,
and her sketches are as amusing and interesting
as her bright conversation, which is all that
can be said. She should write more often, and
cultivate the talent so liberally bestowed upon
her. Oh, time! Oh, space! if only I could
command and control you for awhile! Here
I have written all the day, and such a host of
names are yet unmentioned.
	Ruby Lamont—Mrs. Maria Miller Johnson
—whose Christmas poem, published last winter,
was an Idyl of the sweetest kind—her style is
lofty, and approaches that of Mrs. Heman's
Miss Sarah E. Russell, a poet whose verses


have been publshed for years in the woman's 
repository, the EXPONENT, over the signature
of Hope.  Her sister also possesses in a large 
degree the poetic fire—Mrs. Belle Russell
Johnson.  Her poems published in the EX-
PONENT are signed, "Millicent."  She, like her
sister, is too modest to use her own name.  And
let me not forget to mention one whose verses
are always comforting and inspirational—Mrs.
Esther A. Bennion—whom, like some of the
others, I have never seen, but know and appre-
ciate their poetic taste.  I have not mentioned all
whose names are familiar to me, thro' bring a
reader and worker in the editorial rooms of
Mrs. Wells' office, but I should like to tell of
many others, and one more name I will speak
of here—Lillie Freeze—whose writings are
tender and full of fine feeling, revealing a
pathos that touches sensitively the inner soul
of woman.
	Of others who are entering the beautiful
field, pardon me, that I do not say more, but
write on, and your own works will tell your
story.


