A BISHOP'S LAST SERMON.

	"The following most remarkable sermon of
this century is reported to have been preached
on Christmas last by the Bishop of London,
England."
	Text—"Go to now, ye rich men, weep and
howl for your miseries that shall come upon
you. Behold, the hire of the laborers, who
have reaped your fields, which is of you kept
back by fraud, crieth; and the cries of them
which have reaped down are entered into the
ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. Ye have lived
in pleasure and have been wanton; ye have
nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter.
Ye have condemned and killed the just and he
doth not resist you."—James v; 1, 4, 5, 6.
	Fellow citizens—The text which I have just
read you, and from which I shall preach the last
sermon as bishop that I shall ever deliver from
this pulpit, is one which is probably as unfamiliar
to you comfortable, well-to-do people, as it is
familiar to all those who, since it was originally
penned, have toiled and suffered for humanity.
Although it is read sometimes in the ordinary
course of our church service, yet judging by
your conduct, your ears have been deaf to its
terrible denunciations. From the days when I
was an humble curate until now, I have had a
large and varied experience of cathedrals,
churches, preachers and sermons, but I have
never yet heard a discourse based on these
words, and I cannot learn from any of my
brother bishops or priests, that they have ever
used them, or heard them so used.
	I can see by your uneasy demeanor that you
are asking yourselves why, on this Christmas
day, when, in accordance with custom, I should
be preaching smooth things to you, I should be
mad enough to offend your delicate susceptibili-
ties by quoting the sayings of one of the common
people--words written eighteen centuries ago,
which might have done very well then, but
which cannot possibly be applied to you and
to your class to-day; you who come here, clad
in purple and fine linen, who, some of you,
live in king's houses, who fare delicately every
day, and who consider that you have fulfilled
every moral obligation when you have dropped
a coin into the collection box, before you step
into your carriage to be driven into your lux-
urious homes. It is because that I believe
that not only James, but Jesus Christ Himself,
if He could stand in my place to-day, would
hurl these words at you with a force and a
passion of which we, in this nineteenth century,
have but little conception. Not as a bishop,
but as a man, I repeat them to you, hardly
hoping that they may touch your hearts, but
more as a justification for my new and strange
position.
	For years I have been one of you. My
home has not been where Christ's home was,
with the masses, but with the classes. I have
an abundance of this world's goods. I have
lived with the fashionable, with the wealthy,
and I have been a dignitary of a church which
is the church of the rich, and not the church
of the poor. Without a protest I have mixed
in society with men and women, whom Christ
would have denounced as bitterly as He de-
nounced the Scribes and Pharisees. In the
House of Lords I have silently sat side by side
with whoremongers and adulterers, and as
silently have I welcomed as my personal


[Column 1]

friends high born women—some of whom I
see before me to-day—with whom no decent
workingman would allow his wife or daughters
to associate.
	I have seen among you, spreading  like a
canker the lust of the flesh, and the pride of
life, and instead of reproving you, as Christ
would have done, I have taken refuge in gener-
alities, and have not dared to denounce your 
individual sins. And all this time there has
been going on around me, in this huge city,
and throughout the land, the surging, toiling
life of humanity, the sorrow, the suffering, the
poverty, the disease, the sin and shame, which
I realize but dimly, as something altogether
apart from my own existence, but for which, I
at last see clearly, you and I have been, up to
the present time, mostly to blame. We and
our class have kept back by fraud the hire of
the laborers who have reaped our field; we
have lived in pleasure on the earth and
been wanton; we have nourished our own
hearts while we have starved the bodies of
those to whom we owe the very bread we eat,
and the clothes we wear, and now we are con-
demning and killing at our very gates the peo-
ple whose inarticulate cry is entering into the
ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, whose faithful
servants we pretend to be.
	My fellow-citizens—I know not how it may
be with you, but for me this careless, selfish
life is ended. Little by little I have awakened
to the fact that all my days I have entirely
neglected my real duty to my fellow-men, and
at last I have come to know that my proper
place is not here, as the well paid bishop of a
church which, in its present condition, is utter-
ly opposed to everything which Christ taught,
but among the poor, to whom He declared
that the Gospel should be preached among the
laborers whose hire we have kept back by
fraud.
	Too long have I neglected the miserable
social facts of our so-called Christian civiliza-
tion. Too long have I spoken to you smooth
things, and cried peace when there was no
peace. I have known by repute that there was
misery among our people, starvation in our
midst, and prostitution upon our streets. But
hitherto I have taken these as something for
which you and I were not responsible, but
which were really due to the inherent wicked-
ness of nature
	But now I have learned that our pleasures
and our wantonness have been built upon this
hideous foundation, and have learned this—
as you may also learn if you will—I have re-
solved that from this Christmas day my new
life shall begin. To-day I lay down my robes,
I give up my bishopric, my palace and my
income; I give up my pleasures of society and
of the world; I give up my seat in the House
of Lords, and at last I take my place as a man
among men.
	It is, I know, a bold step I have taken, but I
have counted the cost. Resolved no longer to
live on the labors of others, I shall probably
have to join the great army of the unemployed.
To-morrow I shall attempt to preach my first
sermon to them in Trafalgar Square, from the
same text that I have used here to-day, and it
is likely that I shall pass to-morrow night in a
police cell.  But there I shall be no worse off
than Jesus Christ would be,if He attempted to
enter this abbey (Westminster) now, for He
would be arrested and locked up as a vagabond
without visible means of subsistance. To you
and to your class He would simply be a laborer
whose subsistance you have kept by fraud. To
the abolition of that fraud, and of the misery
and degradation which result from it, I shall
henceforth devote my life. It will be no easy
task; not near so easy as being Bishop of Lon-
don, but the reward of a good conscience and
of noble work well done, is better far than a 

[Column 2]

palace and ten thousand pounds ($48,400) a
year.
	In this place I shall probably never speak
again. But when Freedom shall have opened
out her arms and gathered all men into her
wide embrace, when Justice and Truth shall
have taken the place of oppression and fraud,
some man of the people shall stand in this tem-
ple of the dead, and inspired by the best tradi-
tion of the past, the noble aspirations of the
present and ideal hopes of the future, shall
send ringing through these lofty aisles that
loving Christmas message, which till then can
never have its full significance—"Peace on
earth and goodwill to men."
