DEAF MUTE INSTITUTE.

	There may be among the readers of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT some mothers who have,
unfortunately, deaf mute children growing up
without any knowledge, and who may never have
heard of the new Territorial Institution for the
education of deaf mutes, established by the
Legislature; it will not, therefore, be amiss to say
something of the purposes and aims of this institu-
tion.
	It consists of two departments, a school and a
home. At the school, the pupils are taught to
read and write at first, and then, after they are
sufficiently advanced, they are taught such useful
branches of knowledge as are commonly taught
to children in the district schools, composition,
arithmetic, grammar, geography, history, etc. A
course of instruction in speech and lib-reading
will also be given by an experienced teacher in all
cases where the pupils show an aptitude for it.


In the home, the pupils are cared for as well as
they would be by their own mothers. Such a 
home is necessary on eccount of the distance
from which the pupils come, and where they must
have a common shelter. The girls will be taught
to make themselves useful in the house, so that
they may be able to help their mothers at home.
They learn hand and machine sewing, plain cook-
ing, baking, making of cakes and pies, ironing
and other housekeeping duties, all taking turns
every week. Some of the girls thus taught have
become good cooks, to the delight of fathers and
brothers at home. The Institute employs a regu-
lar cook to do all the work, and instruction in
household duties is given by the Matron out of
school hours, so that neither inteferes with the
other. The young lady teacher, who teaches
articulation and lip-reading, will reside at the
Institute, and have general supervision of the
girls out of school hours.
	Board and Tuition will be charged at the rate of
$5 per week, to those who are able to pay, and to
others who reside outside of the Territory, but in
case of inability to pay that amount, the applicants
will be admitted free of charge, as the Legislature
has provided liberally for their free education.
This applies only to residents of the Territory,
and none such need be debarred from coming to
school.
	The requisites for admission are, that the appli-
cants should possess a sound mind in a sound
body. The age of admission begins at six years,
but is not limited upward at present. A three
years' course of instruction is provided for those
who cannot spend more than that number of years
at school. Even one year of training has done
wonders, and much good can be done under such
influences as surround the Institute.
	Books and clothing only must be paid for by the
pupils. Board, lodging and tuition are free. Two
plain, but strong changes of clothing are all that
is necessary.
	The next term begins on the 3rd of Sept., 1888,
and continues—with a two weeks' vacation between
Christmas and New Year—until the middle of
June, after which the pupils go home for a three
months' vacation.
	It is to be hoped that no deaf mute of suitable
age, out of the two hundred or more now in the
Territory, will neglect the opportunity of an edu-
cation thus afforded them. The Institute is at
present located at Captain Hooper's beautiful
mansion in Salt Lake City.
	All communications should be addressed to Dr.
J. R. Park, President of University of Deseret.


