CORRESPONDENCE.

		LEES CREEK, Alberta, JUNE 19, 1888.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—As we have a temporary Relief
Society organized, and our honored Sister and
President, Zina D. H. Young, having arrived here
and met with us, we thought, perhaps, the minutes
of our first meeting after her arrival would not be
amiss.
	May 24th the sisters of Lees Creek met at the
residence of President C. O. Card, Prest. Mary
L. Woolf presiding. Singing, “O, my father,’
etc. Prayer by G. L. Farrell. Singing, “Do what
is right.” Minutes of previous meeting read and
accepted.
	Prest. Mary Woolf made a few opening remarks;
rejoiced that our dear sister had the privilege of
coming to this land, and could meet with us; anti-
cipated a good time. Prayed that the Spirit of
the Lord would be with us, that all might be dicta-
ted by the same
	Coun. Annie Layne felt weak in speaking, but
rejoiced in being here among so good a people;
felt very thankful that our honored sister could be
with us; felt willing to do her part in rolling on
this work.
	Sister Sarah Daines was pleased to meet with
our brethren and sisters on this occasion; said we
were blest in having Sister Young with us; desired
to do good and assist in the work before us.
	Sister Z. Y. Card rejoiced to meet with us, and
her dear mother; could not express the joy she
felt in having her mother with her at this time.
Compared our meeting with others she had at-
tended, all being present that had their names en-
rolled. Spoke of the relief given to the poor,
although administered by the sisters it came from
the head of the family. Said our sisters at home
were deprived of the care and support of their


husbands, and we should all remember them in
our prayers. "He is the Comforter; we should
all put our trust in Him." Said our example and
and influence here was for good, of which those
that were not of us would testify. Desired the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us at all times.
	Sister Zine D. H. Young said this meeting
brought to mind many bygone days. Felt that
the Spirit of the Lord was with us, and with His
Saints wherever they were located. Referred to
remarks made by the Prophet Joseph to the sisters
—"You have no conception of the greatness of
the work you are laying the foundation of." Said
every sister was paid for coming to meeting;
mothers were strengthened to perform their labors
and better prepared to instruct their children.
"Some of our sisters are not taking the right
course." Felt we enjoyed a good spirit in our
labors: nothing gave us more joy than to see our
young people taking hold of the principles of the
Gospel. Assured us that this colony was remem-
bered and prayed for in the Temple. Prayed that
the choicest blessings of the Lord might ever at-
tend us.
	Bro. Cheeney said he had had many reflections
while listening; was pleased to see all attending
meeting; if any needed to be encouraged or ex-
cused it was the mothers; was pleased to see the
willingness of the sisters to perform all duties.
"When people apostatize they first neglect small
duties; many have stumbled; it is necessary that
we are shield edfrom this by performing our duties
in this Church. May God bless our labors and
increase the Spirit of the Lord upon us."
	Bro. R. Smith had embraced the Gospel and knew
of its truth, and hoped to live faithful to the end.
"There is a great work before us; we need to
watch and pray. Two of our sisters are in prison,
and the way they are treated is not calculated to
make me feel good." Many of our brethren felt 
depressed, and longed for the time when our
brethren could speak to them; they could not
comfort each other concerning their religion, nor
speak of the principles of the Gospel, which were
so dear to them; the singing of the sisters had
been much appreciated by them. Prophecy had
and would be fulfilled. Prayed God to help us to
be faithful and worthy of the many blessings we
receive.
	Bro. Daines felt grateful for this privilege; said
that a good portion of the Spirit of the Lord was
with us. Could testify of the benefit of the Relief
Society; had attended many good meetings here.
	"We all have our trials, but they will be for our
good; we cannot be perfected without them." All
felt to appreciate the blessing of having Sister 
Young with us; hoped that we would continue to
be united, that we might be prepared for all that
may come.
	Bro. Farrell said he was glad to be with us and
enjoy the good spirit in our midst; what had been
said was true. Spoke of the mustard seed being
scattered; we had come here because the Lord
wanted us here; we had been blest while here;
those of the world admired our industry and im-
provements; it would help to preach the Gospel; 
we should be united in all things. Said, "If we
do right the Lord will bless us, and we will con-
tinue to enjoy a peaceful spirit. The world can-
not do anything against, but for the kingdom of
God; if we are diligent the Lord will enable us to
do a good work in this land." Asked the Lord to
bless Sister Young and all the sisters.
	Prest. Card said it always afforded him pleasure
to meet with us; had listened with pleasure to the
remarks made. "Unless we continue to labor we
may not always enjoy the blessings of God. We
must seek for wisdom." Was pleased that we
could have Sister Young with us; she was now
President of all the Relief Society. "We can-
not court too much the Spirit of the Lord; that we
may enjoy peace and happiness we must be wise in
all things. The Lamanites are not all true; our

[Column 2]

neighbors judge us by our outward appearance."
Asked the peace and blessings of the Lord upon
us.
	Sister Mary Woolf had been edified; knew the
Prophet Jospeh had been inspired to organize the
Relief Society; was always strengthened for her
duties in attending meeting. "We need this
strength to rear our children in the ways of the
 Lord; had been trained to do right, and had tried
to do so.
	Singing, "Who are these arrayed in white?"
etc.
	An invitation was then extended to all the
brethren to attend a picnic prepared in honor of
our President, Sister Young, at 6 o'clock, at
which time twenty-eight of our brethren and sis-
ters sat down to tables well filled with some of the
good things of Canada. As it was also the
queen's birthday, and we forming part of her do-
main, we thought we could not celebrate it in a
better way.
		SARAH H. DAINES. Ass't Secretary.


