		PRIMARY CONFERENCE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Minutes of a conference of the Primary As-
sociations of Paradise, Hyrum and Millville
wards. The Conference met at Paradise, June
20, 1888, commencing at 11 a.m., Coun. Pike
presiding over the meeting. Opened with
singing. Prayer by Bishop J. D. Hirst.
Singing. Minutes of the last conference, which
met at Millville, were read by Sister Crowther
and adopted. A recitation, "Keep out of
Debt," was rendered by Emma Norris, of the
Paradise Ward.
	Prest. Hannah Olsen, of Paradise, reported
the Primary of that ward. "There are enrolled
about 100, average attendance 50."
	"The Old Wooden Rocker, That Stands by
the Wall," was sung by Edith Gamble, of the
Millville Ward.
	The Millville Ward was then represented by
Prest. Sarah Gamble; the enrollment was 85,
average attendance 30.
	Prest. Hansen, of Hyrum, reported the 3rd
district of that ward. The speaker thought
the parents should take a little more interest
in the matter.
	Mary Obray, First Counselor to Sister Olsen,
of Paradise, was honorably released, and a vote
of thanks tendered for her labors.
	The Paradise Primary Association was then
reorganized, with the following officers: Hannah
Olsen, President; Louisa Smith and Isabell
Obray, Counselors: Josephine James, Secretary;
Caroline Larsen, Ass't Secretary; Ida Obray,
Treasurer.
	Bishop James D. Hirst made a few remarks;
showed the advantages and the necessity of
kindness; encouraged all to pursue a course
that would be approbated of God.
	A recitation, "Little Jim," was then given
by Danford Bickmore, of Paradise; a card
exercise on "Good Behavior," was rendered by
a class of little ones of the 1st district, Hyrum,
conducted by Martha Allen.
	Prest. Martha Allen reported the Association
over which she presided. "There are between
80 and 90 enrolled, and an attendance of about
20. The children were  encouraged to bear
their testimonies, and some had without being
asked.
	Sister Crowther, of Logan, addressed the
meeting; said she was very much pleased with
the boys for coming to the front, and made
excellent remarks.
	A duet, "All together," by Priscilla and
Laura Humphreys of Paradise; a dialogue, "A
Place for Everything," by Carrie Obray and
Julia Bradshaw; a song, by Annie Johnson
and Edgar Wing.
	Father David James addressed the meeting.
He said he was nearly eighty-five years of age,
and this was the first Primary Conference he
had attended; he said many good things. A
recitation, "Little Lallie's Wish," by Hallie
Yates.
	Elder Robert Pearce of Paradise, spoke a
short time on the principle of obedience.
	Sister Pike stated that Sister Molen, Prest.
of the Primary Associations, was absent on ac-
count of severe sickness. She had sent a letter
in which she sent her love to all the little
boys and girls, and prayed for the choicest
blessings of the Lord to rest upon those who
attended this conference. Sister Pike wished
the children to say Amen when a speaker con-
cluded his or her remarks. Admonished the
children to be kind to their parents and the
aged.
	Lavina Anderson, of Hyrum, gave a recita-
tion, "Keeping His Word." The Association
sang, "Around the Throne." Closing Prayer
by Elder Jacob Larsen.
	A good orderly spirit prevailed throughout
the meeting; the selections were well rendered
by the little ones, and all seemed to depart
with a feeling of kindness.
				Yours,
			JOSEPHINE JAMES, Secretary.


