[Column 2]
three miles down the river. The Connecticut
valley is lovely, and their log cabin! with ex-
quisite fire-place, worthy the grandest old back-
log and fore-stick, beautiful polished floors,
and the lunch served by a Springfield caterer
in most approved modern style, not that of our
dear old Grandmother’s. After the tables
were cleared, Mrs. Whiting called on me for
a talk, which I proceeded to give them for
another hour, of which Mrs. Whiting writes
me the enclosed! The other day was spent in
driving up the lovely valley six miles to Mount
Holyoke Seminary, going through the various
buildings, seeing the girls, over two hundred
of them, and in the great old kitchen looking
upon neat plateaus of beautiful light sweet-
smelling bread, biscuits, and cake, all made by
the girls during the morning. Two hundred
dollars gives a girl all the advantages of this
school, and each one must do a certain amount
of the work of the house. Now the coarser
and heavier parts of it are done by hired wo-
men, but still there is plenty for them to do;
making the beds, sweeping the rooms, ironing
their own clothes, setting and serving the
tables, washing the dishes, etc, and all is done
in the memory of the sainted Mary Lyon,
whose monument stands under the grand old
trees that surround the buildings.
	Then on Sunday I went to Cheshire, to dine
with my mother’s dear cousin, Mrs. Anna
Jenks Richardson, 95 years of age, bright and
cheerful in her on-look. She and her husband.
Ira Richardson, and my grandfather Read,
were Universalists in the long ago when it cost
much more not to believe in eternal torment
than it does Brother Briggs now. Then I
hied me to the house of my grandfather
Anthony, who lived in it from the day of his
marriage with Hannah Lapham in 1792, to
his death at the age of ninety-six years. There
I met the two youngest brothers of my father
seventy-three and eighty-three; thence with
my cousins, I drove to Bowen’s Corners, on
one of which, my father and mother built their
house the year they were married, where their
three older girls and eldest son D. H. were
born. Old Graylock Mountain rears its head
on the West and Green Mountain chain for-
tifies the East, while Hoosick River winds its
way northward to the Hudson, with factories
of all sorts lining its banks. The scenery is
more beautiful than I can describe, and now
clothed in its June dress, it is simply lovely!
	Accompanied by my cousins, I spent Monday
morning in going over the immense print
works of Arnold and Company, in North
Adams, and such things of beauty of all pos-
sible colors and figures as they bring forth
from the plain unbleached muslin are simply
miraculous. The next day I spent driving up
the Battenkille, on which are the towns of
Battenville and Center Falls, where we lived
from 1827 to 1845. There I went through
from garret to cellar the two very old houses
in which we lived and enjoyed, and the new
large brick house that my father built in
Battenville, in 1832, the large old school-room
over the wood-shed, in which we, and our
neighbor’s children were taught by the best of
teachers those days afforded. Well I lived
over the olden times, though but very few of
the older people were there. On that evening
went to Saratoga Springs, and took a drink
from the Old Congress Spring, and on Wednes-
day evening reached home at 9:30 and on
Thursday evening the paper tells you what
happened, and now I am enjoying all the
good will of all my dear friends of today.
Lovingly yours,
