[Column 2]

	For many a year now passed away,
		We've had this glorious treat.
	To spend with friends a summer’s day
		And glad each other meet!
	From quiet homes, not often left
		Because of weary years,
	By car or team and reil, so kept,
		That smiles oft turn to tears!
				CHORUS.
	Here's three-score ten and four-score years,
		Beyond this, quite a few,
	Who all enjoy their annual out,
		And thank their friends so true!

	We've Governors had and Judges too,
		As year by year hath fled;
	The Utah Centeral, U. P. now,
		in this good work long led;
	To-day upon the Rio Grande
		We take this looked-for spin;
	God bless this fresh and liberal hand,
		Which thus our hearts could win!–[Chorus; 
	Our Committee have toiled and tried,
		In every needed way
	To make our long or shorter ride,
		A grand high holiday!
	Their faces and their voices speak.
		In sympathetic tone.
	They're brethren, sisters for they seek
		The aged and the lone!—[Chorus.

	Then presents we have had, galore,
		From many a thoughtful hand,
	Who vied in giving, more and more
		Than Old Folks e’en could stand,
	Without a heartfelt prayer to God
		That such may e’er be blest
	With plenty on the earth's green sod,
		And then with Heaven’s own rest.—[Chorus.

	Since first the Old Folks found good friends,
		To give their time and means,
	'Tis deemed that neighbor love extends,
		Which everywhere redeems!
	And many a tired and patient soul
		Who at the first came out,
	Has reached the other shore, the goal
		With glad triumphant shout!—[Chorus

	We’re passing on with stumbling feet,
		Our ranks are breaking down. 
	New faces—badges hence will greet
		And wear the Old Folks’crown.
	They’ll have their friends, as we have had,
		While soul in Utah stirs;
	Her towns in rivalry make glad,
		These special guests of hers!

	Song hath its charm, and oft our choir  
		Have sung the old songs o'er;
	Now we can catch the same true fire,
		And join as ne'er before;
	God bless each one who lends a hand,
		To make this well known day.
	And when they’re old; may thousands stand
		With welcome and hurrahl—[Chorus.

	Brother Goddard and the Old Folks’ choir sang
“Hard Times,” and Bishop W. B. Preston ad-
dressed the old folks in a particularly happy man-
ner. The committee distributed some gifts, with
which they are always well supplied on such oc-
casions by the liberality of the public, to the aged
people of Springville. Brother C. R. Savage
held up a band-box and called out for an old
lady who had not had a new bonnot for ten years
but did not find one, then for five years etc., and
then for one who had to wash for her living, and
no one replied, so he presented the bonnet to the
old lady who had composed the poem that was
read in the morning— Lucretia H. Mower. Philo
Dibble, aged 85 well known in Mormon history
from having been shot through the body in the
times of the early persecutions of the Church,
was given a nice arm chair, also Sarah Parrish,
80; Matilda Streeper, 87; Hannah Shepherd, 78;
these were all invalids, and Anna E. Harper, 75;
dress patterns, fancy baskets with contents, china
ware, gloves, and collars, were given to other old
ladies of Springville; and canes, slippers, etc., to

[Column 3]

the gentlemen: Hannah M. Dibble, 82; James
M. Peirce, 77; Neman Bulkley, 74; Andrew
Larsen, 73; Eliza A. Mendenhall, 81; Hailey P
Averett, 76; Noah Packard, 80; Polly P. Childs, 
76; Orson Hulett, 76; Tobias Dallen, 85; Abram
Taylor, 73; Hannah Harrison, 73; James Wis-
combe, 76; Ann Bramall, 70; Charles Avery, 72;
Mary Ann Rayland, 82; Eliza Devenish, 72;
Agustus Cox, 74; Ann D. Bringhurst, 70; Lausen
Roundy, 73; Mary Snelson, 73; Mary A. Doug-
lass, 78; Rachel Spafford, 85; Martha Stephen-
son, 77; William Cranmer, 77; Jeduthan Averett,
75; Jacob McCurdy, 73; Eliza Deal, 75; Lucretia
H. Mower, 72; Benjamin W. Brindle, 73; Sarah
Brindle, 70; Mary A. Herbert, 73; Jacob Houtz,
76; Wm. Mendenhall, 76; Sarah L. Mendenhall
73; Harriet Kindred, 74; Wm. Giles, 70; Ann
Giles, 70; Margaret Parrish, 82; Cyrus Sanford,
76; Richard Bird, 70; Catherine Boyer, 74;
Edward Pentington, 71; Elizabeth Whiting, 77;
James Chadwick, 81; Cerina Johnson, 70; Hila
Nelson, 74; Joseph Allen, 73; Mary Ann Full-
mer, 75; Solomon Johnson, 74; Caroline John-
son, 71; Shephard Hutchings, 73; John Hatfield,
72; Jane James, 76; Hyrum W. Clark, 72. The
announcement was made by the Committee, that
the presents would be given to the aged people on
the train as they were returning home.
	President Wilford Woodruff spoke a short time,
he stated that in all his extensive travels he had never seen an assembly that impressed him so
forcibly and pleasantly, or made him feel better
than this assembly. He felt thankful that we
were alive and had been strengthened to endure
the vicissitudes through which we had passed,
and had been able to redeem this desert land, and
make it blossom as the rose.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke with reverential feeling
of the aged veterans and felt to appreciate the re-
spect shown to the Old Folks by the citizens of
Springville. The President is himself 84 years
of age, and so well preserved, that he shows none
of the signs of old age, either in his appearance,
his voice, or his walk, he walks as erect and firm
as a young man. There are few men in the world
at his age could speak as well, in fact there are
very few young men that can be heard so clearly
and distinctly in the large tabernacle, or in an
outdoor meeting as he can.
	Elder W. C. Dunbar amused the assembly very
much by playing his Scotch bag pipes. Brother
Goddard who has a remarkably clear voice for his
age sang “Maggie’s by my Side.” Elder C. R.
Savage spoke in his usual happy style, thanking
the Springville people and calling the place, the
Old Folks’ banner town, he thought the reception
surpassed any heretofore accorded the old folks.
The benediction was pronounced by Bishop
Packard, of Springville and the company began
to disperse, many going to the cars; others im-
proving the opportunity in conversing with old
friends, etc. The committee who had charge of
the affair at Springville were Nephi Packard, H.
M. Dougall, Don, C. Johnson, L.D. Franton and
F.C. Boyer.
	Elder Jacob Gates, now senior President of the
Seventies,stated that it was the anniversary of his
baptism into the Church, fifty-seven years before,
at St. Johnsbury, Caledonia Co., VL, by Elder
Orson Pratt, and that he was confirmed on the
same day by Orson Pratt and Zerubbabel Snow,
better known as Judge Snow. Brother Gates is
now over 80, hale and hearty, traveling and
preaching among the seventies, most of his
time.
	On the trip homeward there was more singing
by the Old Folks’ choir, more lemonade cakes,
candies, and oranges distributed, and suitable
presents given to all the Salt Lake Co., old folks,
and every one seemed pleased and satisfied with the
day;nothing having occurred to mar the enjoyment
of the happy occasion. The management of the
train was perfect, and the coaches were the finest


the old folks have ever had. The officials of the
Denver and Rio Grande Western Railway de-
serve special praise for their generosity, con-
sideration and attention. The Committee con-
sisting of Presiding Bishop Preston, Elders
Geo. Goddard, C. R. Savage, Wm. Eddington,
Wm. Naylor, W. L. Binder, John Kirkman and
Bishop Nelson A. Empey did everything possible
for the old folks and watched over them constantly
with tenderness and untiring vigilance.
	There were about nine hundred people on the
train, of these there were of those from 70- to 80-
235 men and 280 women, total 515; from 80 to 90,
42 men and 33 women, total 75; from 90 to 95,
there were four men and no women making in all
a total of 594; this does not include those in
Springville or Utah Co. Altogether it is a very
pleasant thing to be able once or twice a year to
bring together so many of those whose lives are
more or less lonely and monotonous; the care
and the happiness, of those who are descending
the hill of life ought to be considered, and this is
a beautiful custom inaugurated by this committee;
Brother Savage was the good angel who first
originated the idea which has been so well de-
veloped and perpetuated and has resulted in so
much enjoyment for this class of citizens for the
last sixteen years. All honor to the old folks and
to those who contribute to their happiness.


