[Column 1]

﻿their visitors repaired to the residence of the Presi-
dent, where they found preparations for supper—
the tables profusely decorated with lovely flowers
and the large dishes of cherries and strawberries
added to the fine appearance of the tables and the
fragrance of the feast of good things. It was
a happy occasion and one long to be remembered
from the interchange of thoughts and senti-
ments.
	The Western Association of writers have sent
us a very polite invitation to be present and par-
ticipate in the literary and social enjoyments of 
their Sixth Annual meeting to be held at Warsaw,
Ind. At this meeting a large number of important
questions are to be discussed by some of the
ablest scholars and thinkers in the country. A
choice miscellany, literary, musical and elocu-
tionary will add to the interest of the occasion
supplemented by numerous pleasure excursions,
boating, sailing etc. The Convention will be
held at Warsaw, Ind., with a Reception at Eagle
Lake Hotel on Monday evening July 6th, and
close with a Banquet on Friday evening July l0th.
Daily sessions will be held at the Tabernacle, 
Spring Fountain Park, with one day’s session in
the Pavilion at Lakeside Park. Each afternoon
will be devoted to rest and recreation and it will
doubtless be a delightful week at this summer
gathering, and for "literary fellowship.” 
	The Agricultural College established at Logan
is in a flourishing condition, and especially so
considering the short time it has been in active
operation. It is as stated in the Annual,"an edu-
cational departure,’’and what would formerly have
been considered an absurdity to actually teach
farming as a science but it has come to this.
"First and prominently it will teach such branches
of learning as relate to agriculture and the
mechanic arts.” Fancy some of the old farmers in
New England a century ago being told how to
farm from books or newspapers? How indignant
they would have been and yet it has come to pass.
It is the fashion, the custom of the day in fact, the
world has come to this understanding of doing
things in order and in the season thereof. There
is much interesting reading matter in the Annual,
and we noticed with much satisfaction the follow-
ing clause, "The young women of the Territory
attending the College will be put on an equal
footing with the young men for obtaining a special
education for their sphere of life.” Judging from
the pamphlet issued for 1891 and 1892, it would
seem that the look out for the future is hopeful
and its success pretty well assured. It is certainly
a great blessing to have a college for agricultural
purposes and pursuits in a Territory depending
so much upon the tilling of the soil for the sus-
tenance of life.
	Tuesday, June 16th, the Relief Society of the
22nd Ward held an annual meeting, the second
since the organization, in the new and handsome 
Ward meeting house, to which the Relief Society
has contributed generously. Mrs. Rachel Whipple
presided; she was formerly President of the 19th
Ward, which included both wards now known as
19th and 22nd, but as population increased and
spread out over a wider district of country, it be-
came necessary to divide into two wards. The
house is very handsomely finished inside as well
as out and at this meeting the sisters had brought,
several handsome bouquets of flowers, that al-
ways add to the attractiveness of any assembly
or gathering. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Stevenson and the writer were
visitors on this occasion, and each made a short
speech, dwelling upon the significance of the
times and the position of woman, the training of
children, and the need of faith and a testimony of
the Latterday work.  After the meeting there was
a sort of banquet at the residence of Mrs. M. L.
Nebeker one of Mrs. Whipple’s Counselors,where
all the active members of the Society were in-

