[Column 1]
and the rest so essential to the ardent worker
comes unsought as though some good angel had
his welfare at heart and made the necessary
arrangements.  Sometimes wealth inclines its
fortunate possessor to seclude himself from the
“dear five hundred friends” that throng around
and fawn and smile upon him, and with a
favored few he resorts to some locality where
he is unknown, that he may be for a short time
at least at his ease, and act himself without the
restraints of “polite society,” in the sense that
Madam Grundy applies the term.
	Then another class still must strain every
nerve in order to afford the time to take a run
out of town, to clamber over hills, or sit by the
side of the winding stream to fish a little, mus-
ing meanwhile, and only starting into remem-
brance of the occupation when there is a bite;
working harder for weeks and days beforehand
to get ahead with business, and after returning
to make up for what is termed “lost time.” To
such the pleasure scarce compensates for the
toil, and yet it is after all, a change from the
constant monotony of everyday work.  Happy
are they who have means and opportunities to
spend a few weeks of the dry summer months
in some pleasant manner, that will awaken
latent powers, refresh memory, and develop
greater activity and freshness of body and
mind, thus prolonging life and increasing use-
fulness.  Why should we not make the most
of our life here upon earth?  It is in this wise
if we live nobly, that we will fit ourselves for
the greatest and highest advancement hereafter.
We are told by students of health, hygiene, and
philosophy, that we must take plenty of rest
and out door air as well as exercise, to store
our minds with knowledge and intelligence, for
we all know how incapable of accomplishing
any great good is a person deprived of healthy
activity, with a positive lack of nerve force
and the innate power to overcome difficulties
and to rise superior to misfortunes or unhappy
circumstances.
	Country air is healing, generally speaking,
and the great contrast to city life is so widely
apparent that one soon feels the difference.
The habits of country people, their “sweet
simplicity” and homely ways are so genuine
and natural, that one feels much benefit from
the contact, and an experience in studying
character that develops another phase of
human life, and adds to the stock of information
on a subject which is always interesting. 
	It is said everywhere, and it seems to me by
everybody, that this is a fast age, things move
rapidly and the people seem more in a hurry.
It is the age of new and strange inventions
all of them tending to rapidity, and approach-
ing a greater degree of excellence in attain-
ment to whatever they represent.  Yet though
much of the hard labor once done without
machinery of any kind, can now be accom-
plished by some of these new inventions, and
thus much human strength saved; yet there
seems to be plenty of work for all the workers,
and people seem quite as weary nowadays as
formerly.  It makes one wonder what it all
means.  I suppose there must be just as much
time as there ever was, that is, days are twenty-
four hours long, and every hour contains sixty
minutes, and each minute sixty seconds, but
one can scarcely believe it when this spirit of
hurrying gets possession of him.  There are
to be sure a good many idlers, not those who
need rest, but who live idle lives all the year
around, and perhaps this is one of the reasons
why the diligent laborers have so much more
to do, and can seldom get even a summer
vacation of a week or two.  Idleness is a vice
but not considered a crime, that is, before the
law (and law is gospel in these days, so some
people think), although it often leads to it, but
some people live a long life of idleness at the
expense of faithful industry on the part of
relatives or friends.  Referring to the country
