[Column 2]
even though she may think it only her rightful
heritage.
	The sleep that has fallen upon the race, women 
as well as men, has been so deep and ab-
sorbing that they only awaken as from a night-
mare, alarmed at the growth of ideas and it will 
take time to bring them out of the stupor back
to their primeval condition. Some have awakened 
early in the morning of these changes, and these
are the pioneer workers men and women bringing
to pass the revolution in politics and morality,
that is to redeem society from the evils under
which it has been laboring so long. 
	Co-operation will be essential, the united and
organized effort of both men and women. This
will be the lever that will move the great ob-
stacles out of the pathway of legitimate progress
in all that will tend to the advancement of the
state or the nation and the purification of the
home, and of society. Men and women do their
best work together, for as the Scriptures tell us
“Man is not without the woman nor the woman
without the man in the Lord.” Neither can one
do any important work without the other, the 
physical and the spiritual forces must both har-
monize and be properly adjusted, if any great
struggle is on hand.
	Our readers will remember in this connection 
the story of the deliverance of Israel by Borak
when he refused to go to battle without Deborah
and said unto her “If thou wilt go with me, then I
will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, then I
will not go.”
	‘‘And Deborah went up with him.” All who
read the Bible know the result of this enterprise
and how they praised the Lord in song afterwards
and it was called “the song of Deborah and
Barak.”
	It is true the argument is brought forward that
this was an exceptional case, and that Barak was 
a coward to want a woman to go up with him to 
battle, but she prophesied unto him nevertheless,
and the Lord inspired her to do this great work;
in the 7th, verse of the 5th chapter of Judges it
reads “The inhabitants of the villages ceased,
they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose
that I arose a mother in Israel.”
	Who does not know at a later time the history 
of Joan of Arc?
	And yet men in this nineteenth century bring 
up the paltry plea against woman suffrage, that
they are the protectors of women.
	In thousands of instances men need women to
protect them, and prevent them from committing
grievous wrongs?
	It is the restraining influence from evil that
women possess that protects men and it is an ele-
ment that is needful in political as well as
social life. It is not necessary to go into details to 
prove this fact, the proofs are all around if one is
not blind to see.
	As to the significance of the times when in
twenty-six states of this union women are allowed
to vote on some questions, and almost every day
brings news of some victory for woman in the 
direction of progress, what may not be expected
and what will be the ultimatim? It will be
equality before the law, and that will bring about 
many radical changes for the better, and woman’s
place will be by the side of man, his counselor,
his helpmeet, his companion, as much in the
political as in the social world.
	The day is hastening on, and although the
women of Utah may deem the time afar off be-
cause of the peculiar conditions existing here,
yet in the time when “a nation shall be born in a
day” what may not transpire in other respects?
There is something important expected of woman
in this day, or she would not have wakened to
the conflict and felt the need of pushing forward
to the issue, as it is manifest she has done. So
we conclude there is special work for women, and
their best efforts must be brought into exercise to
[Column 3]
accomplish it. This spirit to educate the masses
to the idea that a few have received, as it were by
revelation, is fast gaining ground; slowly and 
surely the seed is being sown and the harvest
will be a surprise to those of little faith.
	Meantime women should work diligently, and
silently if necessary, to prepare themselves for
the issues at hand whether local or national, and
seek to comprehend the great questions that are
agitating the political world. Many women are 
ignorant of the simplest laws relating to their own 
individual rights and the rights of property.
Somebody brings them a paper to sign asks them
for their signature, and even without reading the
article or agreement and regardless of the conse-
quences the pen is taken and the name written,
when perhaps by simply witholding the signature,
the most serious consequences might have been 
averted.
	This is not an idle tale but a stern reality, a 
stubborn fact. Women do not look into these
matters as they should, the writer knows of an 
instance where the husband and father of a family
when on “a drunken spree” sold the cow one day
and the next day the home; the wife was sitting
milking the cow when the man who had bought
her came to take her away and she was utterly 
powerless to prevent it; the next day, men came 
to tell her that she must leave the house, they 
had bought and paid for it, she remonstrated, but
to no purpose, and before that man (husband and 
father) had come to his senses again, the wife and 
children were homeless; in the state where this 
circumstance transpired the law has been materi-
ally changed through the intercession and peti-
tioning of woman suffragists. And yet with
these facts staring them in the face, women will
say, they do not want the ballot, they are willing
to leave such matters in the hands of men.
Whenever we hear women reason thus, we know
that they are ignorant of the conditions of women
at home and abroad; such women should be edu-
cated if possible in that which pertains to the
social and moral well-being of womankind, and
they would then see the actual necessity that
exists for woman’s help in the great stride that is
being made to advance in the scale of human 
progression.


