[Column 1]

﻿that spirit of liberty that brought you to our shores;
you have been upon the borders of civilization
most of your lives; to your efforts we owe our
grand mountain home; to you is due the credit
for the homes we enjoy. You who are crowned
with the star of a hundred years are almost as
old as that glorious flag which waves over our
heads. Today many of you can remember when
but thirteen stars graced its tri-colored folds, but
now it bears proudly forty-four stars, each repre-
senting a sovereign State; her colors stream
proudly in every clime, it is respected by all
nations; from Alaska’s ice bound shores to the
southern land of flowers it waves majestically
over a people free, independent and progressive.
Upon every sea it waves a token of free men, free
women and free institutions. From the Arctic
sea to the land of the southern cross, America’s
shipping, displays the Stars and Stripes. It is
flung free to every breeze and is emblazoned upon 
the crest of every surging billow. All of you are
older than the railway train which moves like a
rolling palace on its steel causeway, bringing you
in luxuriant comfort and ease to us today. All
of you have seen the old crooked snath, with its
two nibs and five fingers, give  place to that
chariot of progress, the mowing machine. In
your time the old hand loom has yielded to the
power fabricators of modern science, the flail and
threshing floor of scriptural times to the grand
steps of modern improvement. You have seen the
birch canoe and flat boat fade before the head-
light of the steamboat. In your day the Indian
trail and old emigrant road have been obliterated
by the railway track; the grassy plains for 2000
miles are transformed into fields and orchards,
cities and towns; and to you we give thanks for
these changes. May the residue of your lives be
one continual jubilee, and such a jubilee as only
your descendants know how to give. And when
you make your exit behind the curtain which
separates us from our veteran fathers and mothers
who have gone before, tell them of us and our
work, and determination to walk in the paths of
honor, truth and patriotism which they marked
out for us,—that when we have arrived at the
silver period of our existence we may be counted
worthy to be numbered with the Old Folks.
	The Old Folks, our Old Folks-dear
	We greet you all with kindly cheer,
	Our vales and mountains honor thee;
	To your grey hairs we bow the knee
	The only sovereigns to whom we bow
	We render willingly homage now,
	To Old Folks all we vote three cheers,
	And the honored crown of a hundred years.
			P. C. J.
	Music by the brass band followed the address
and Elder George Goddard made one of his
characteristic speeches and presented the oldest
veteran present, Father J. B. Lewis of this City,
aged 95, who was given three cheers by the as-
sembly. Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas rendered in
her own sweet way “The Old Folks at Home,”
she always charms with her melodious strains.
Dinner was next announced, and a sumptuous
banquet it was indeed; the good people of Spring-
ville were most generous in their hospitality, and
there seemed no lack of variety or abundance.
The handsome young people who served the
company were specially attentive and under the
delightful shade of the waving boughs, it was a
picture for an artist. The clouds rolled up and
thunder was heard in the distance and a soft
gentle rain began to fall, but it soon passed over
and the sun shone out again.
	After returning to the grove the band played
some lively airs and Moses Johnson recited a
humorous selection “The Old Tiner.” Elder W.
C. Dunbar whose singing always pleases every-
body,rendered the song written expressly for the
occasion by Elder Henry W. Naisbett, the choir
joining in the chorus:

