BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The conference of the Relief Society of the
Bear Lake Stake of Zion convened in the
new tabernacle at Paris, May 30, and 31.

[Column 3]
there were present on the stand Stale Pres.
J. P. Linsdsey and Counselors Elszabeth
Collings and L. M. Hart, Pres Annie E.
Laker, Pres. Nancy E. Pugmire, also Counselor
J. S. Richards of the Central Board of the
Relief Society, Sister Sarah Jane Cannon,
Pres. Louie Felt of the P. A., Apostle F. D.
Richards, Pres. Wm. Budge, and Pres. J. H.
Hart.  Meeting commenced by singing
“Praise to the man.” Prayer by Pres. Wm.
Budge Singing “Hail to the Prophet."  Roll
was called and minutes of the previous con-
ference read and approved.
	Stake Pres. of R. S., J. P. Lindsey, made a
few opening remarks, expressed her pleasure at
having the visitors from Salt Lake City with
us, and hoped we would all be greatly
benefited by their coming:  The branches of
Relief Society were reported as follows.
Paris first and second wards, Bloomington
St. Charles, Fish Haven, Ovid and Montpelier
all as being in good condition.  Coun. Jane S.
Richards was pleased to meet with the Sisters
of Bear Lake Stake under such favorable
circumstances.  Thought the first duty of the
Relief Society was to look after the poor and
sick and to be a comfort to one another in
times of trouble; said this is a progressive age,
the rising generation had a better chance for
improvement than the older ones had in their
day and ought to be qualified to fill the places
of trust and honor when we had passed away.
Thought it very necessary that the Relief
Society hold testimony meetings often.  Spoke
on various subjects in a kind motherly way
that will long be remembered.  Sister Cannon
made a few very encouraging remarks.
	Pres Wm. Budge esteemed it a great
privilege to meet with the sisters, had been
exceedingly well pleased with their remarks;
the words of the sisters were so kind they
should have an excellent effect and he hoped
they would reap the fruits of their good labors.
	Pres. Louie Felt had enjoyed the meeting
invited the parents and and all to attend the
Primary Conference, that they might see the
improvement the children were making. 
Stake Pres. J. P. Lindsey addressed the 
congregation for a short time, gave many
words of counsel and encouragement.  Felt
to thank the sisters for their visit and prayed
that the Lord would bless and protect them
on their journey home.  As Mrs.  Lottie
Price was unable to act as Cor. Sec’y any
longer,Miss Sylvia Broomhead was appointed
and sustained by unanimous vote to act in
that office.
	Apostle F. D. Richards thought the Relief
Society of great importance, realized they were
doing a great amount of good.  The statistical
and financial reports were then read.  Confer-
ence adjourned until Nov. Singing “0
Praise Ye the Lord.  Benediction by Apostle
F. D. Richards.
			LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec'y


