OLD FOLKS’ RED LETTER DAY.
          
	The Rio Grande Western Railway with their
usual generosity gave free transportation to the
Old Folks to and from Springville for the annual
“outing,” and early Thursday morning June 18,
fourteen coaches and a baggage car decked with
the stars and stripes left the Denver depot en-
route for their destination. At the stations south
as far as Draper aged people were taken on the
train. The run to Springville was very smooth,
and a happier company was seldom if ever seen,
than were on board that train. The Committee
were kind and assiduous in their attentions to all
and the “Old Folks’ Choir," sung in each car for
the entertainment of the veterans, “The Con-
tinental Railway.” 
When the train reached Springville there was
a most inspiring sight greeted these aged people;
the crowds of happy faces both of children and
grown people with cheers of welcome, and the
Springville band playing national airs to welcome
and honor their aged visitors. The walk to the
grove was strewn with new mown hay, a most 
delightful aroma, and there was an archway at
the entrance, decorated with bunting and ever-
greens with the words “Veterans Welcome.” On
thp right of the path were the young men and
maidens in line, dressed for the occasion with red
white and blue turbans the same color of rosettes
or floating ribbons on the right arm, they made
quite a pretty showing and behind them were the
tables tastefully laid out and ornamented with
flowers, in rich profusion, fairly “groaning with
the weight of the feast.”
 Packard’s Grove where the company assembled
is a delightful place, beautifully shaded with the
soft graceful foliage of the tall and handsome
trees, and everything had been made ready for
the comfort and convenience of the assembly. A
stand with a large and commodious platform and
seats, sufficient for the purpose, where very soon
Presidents Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon, Bishop W. B. Preston, Presidents
Jacob Gates and George Reynolds of the Seven-
ties, and Presidents Angus M. Cannon, Joseph E.
Taylor, and Charles W. Penrose of the Salt Lake
Stake, also Pres. A. O. Smoot of the Utah Stake
and Bishop Packard of Springville with quite a
number of ladies, committee, choir, and reporters
were seated. The stand was draped with the
stars and stripes and streamers floating in the
breeze. There were hanging around mottoes of
the differents states with the date of their admis-
sion into the union.
	The exercises, conducted by Don C. Johnson
begun with patriotic music by the band, after
which the Springville choir sang,
