[Column 1]

aged 15 years, doll settee and chairs cut wood-
work; Charles Madson 4th Ward, 13 years
old, small lounge made and upholstered; stone
work carving of letters, by Eddie aged 11 and
Elias Ashton aged 10, 15th Ward, Ray Jacobs
17th Ward 10 years old, paper weight and
penholders cut from cigar box and gilded very
tasteful; hearth rugs and woolen patchwork
by Ralph Grames 3rd Ward, aged 9 years,
bedstead for doll, Geo. J. Fox 14th Ward aged
13, a very complete miniature pile driver by
Johnie Bowers 7th Ward, he also melted the
lead and shaped it. Brackets and scroll work
Walter Wallace 7th Ward, 13 years old, Ray
Williams Mill Creek, double harrow 12 years
old, Forestdale in miniature by Alma
Bullock of the 16th Ward, 10 years old was
the most attractive piece of work made by any
of the little boys. It was perfect in ap-
pearance though very small, streets laid out,
shade trees, houses exact even to the sign and
advertising, the proportions were all good it
was made principally of pasteboard and painted
in imitation of Forestdale itself. It was quite
a novel idea. Lee Richards of the 20th ward
had a very handsome satin banner on exhibi-
tion, ornamental painting and letter-
ing, certainly very creditably done and
artistically finished off for a little boy. showing
considerable talent in this direction.
	The work of the little girls was in very
great variety and it is impossible to more than
give a passing notice to a few of the most
uoticable. One quite attractive little thing
was a large bunch of paper snowballs hanging
pendant so true to nature that several of the
visitors thought that they were real, these
were made by Chloe Hunter aged 9 years,
water lilies in waxwork, Annie Gundson aged
12 years, Ardelle Cummings aged 12, had
several specimens of drawn needle work that
were very pretty and quite creditable for a
child. Sophia Youngberg, Draper, aged 14
had some very fine plain hand sewing, work
on ribbon done in arasine very handsome and
fine work, Phronia Nelson Draper. aged 11
years, Gertrude Winder aged 13, handsome
lamp-mat made of ribbon fastened with cord
of chenille, May Gilbert banjo and mandolin
silk work, covered pasteboard, there were
very odd and quite pretty. Rhoda Miller,
Mill Creek, aged 10, babies bibs worked neatly,
Edna Jackson paper platting very nice aged
7, Olive Cushing 11th ward, 7 years old
woolen scarf crocheted. Louie Coulam 11th
ward 9 years old stocking darning very neat.
Sophia Youngberg aged 14, yarn' home spin-
ning, very fine, Evelina Youngberg 7 years old,
very fine darning. Fannie Coulam 11th ward
12 years, old cut fitted and made a dress waist
sewing very good, button holes well made.
Hannah Thatcher 9 years old, cut fitted and
made in goodstyle a doll's dress. Pearl Carlisle,
Mill Creek, 15 years old, large, heavy table cover
embroidered on felt in chenille, arasine,
riberdine. very elaborate in design and quite
elegant as a whole, showing talent, patience,
and neatness. Birdie Carlisle younger sister,
a table scarf handsomely embroidered. Belle
Weiler 4th ward, 13 years old a pretty apron
made by hand trimmed with novelty lace and
insertion done very neatly. Free hand draw-
ing by Alice Clawson 14 years old, these
copies and drawings showed considerable
talent; cross stitching on gingham by little
girls six and seven years old, horse shoe
watch case, covered and filled in with silk
filled and wound round with ribbon. This
was a very attractive article and as it hung
attracted considerable attention. Laura Jones
16th ward, large sofa cushion of silk, pieced
log-cabin pattern. Janette Pitt aged 9 years,
carriage robe, made of woolen pieces in form
of rosettes raised and worked in colors. Ella
Keyting 17 years old elegant silk banner,
ornamental, delicately painted and mounted.

