MESA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Mesa
Stake was held March 20th, 1891.  Opened
with prayer by Noah Brimhall.  Pres. Sarah
M. Pomeroy presiding, who said if we meet with
the proper spirit we shall be blessed and bene-
fited—take the step that lays open before us,
and another will be presented and so on till
our work is ended. 
Coun. M. A. Hakes reported the Mesa Ward
having till recently been Pres. of that branch,
she had taken great pleasure in her labors
therein, found the sisters faithful saints, had
visited with the sisters and found other wards
much the same.
	Sister Louisa Harper reported the Lehi
sisters as being faithful and willing to do all
the good they could, with a desire to improve
every opportunity for building up the kingdom
of God on the earth.
	Sister Lovina Brimhall reported the Nephi
Ward.   The saints there were in a scattered
condition but were trying to be one with other
organizations in bringing about the purposes
of the Almighty.
	Pres. Susan Savage said since the high
water they had had no Lamanites to their
meetings but previous to that time there had
been a good attendance.  Felt the loss of their
faithful co-laborer, Thankful Harmon, but felt
to submit to the decree of the Almighty, said
she had been a faithful, energetic worker in
the Indian mission.
	Pres. Lizzie Macdonald felt rather depressed
having just returned from the funeral of Sister
Harmon whom she felt had had an especial
call in the Lamanite labor; thought it very
important we should teach our children to be
meeting goers.
	We had good speaking and teaching by
Coun. Sarah Ann Robson,  Addie Passey,
brothers E. Ellsworth; Brimhall and Stewart
also Bishop Wm. Passey.
	Sister Barbara Lang who had been chosen 
as President of the Mesa Ward spoke briefly.
	Pres. C. I. Robson spoke a short time upon
the duties and privileges of motherhood; ex-
horted the mothers to use the time well while
the children were around their knee in infancy,
to make lasting impressions upon them and
teach them to do right, because it is right, and
shun evil because it is evil.  Closing remarks
by Pres.  Sarah M. Pomeroy. Benediction by
E. Ellsworth, adjourned for three months.
 
