IN REMEMBRANCE OF HANNAH T. KING.

A few of the very particular friends of Mrs.
H. T. "King (deceased) spent a very pleasant
afternoon at the residence of Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball on Wednesday June 17th. The object
was to observe the day in memory of that
venerable lady, authoress, and poet, who had
contributed so much for the enjoyment of
others. The idea originated with Mrs. Kimball
the hostess, she communicated it to Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard, and they confered together
cards of invitation were issued to twelve ladies,
and meantime Mrs. Kimball made the neces-
sary preparations. The afternoon was spent
in reminiscences of Mrs. King, the reading of
interesting letters she had written to the ladies
present, poems, fragments of poems, sketches
etc., these with conversation concerning her
life and friendships occupied the time, until
dinner was announced at five p.m. Vases of
beautiful flowers, roses predominating orna-
mented the table and beside each plate an


artistically arranged bouquet of the choicest
and most fragrant blossoms and leaves, a
double card tied with white ribbon with the
name of the lady on the outer card and open-
ing underneath was a motto to Mrs. King and
a verse from one of the Psalms for each per-
son. Mrs. Kimball made this a sort of tri-
bute, to Mrs. King’s memory as she was
specially fond of the Psalms. Mrs Kimball
opened- the Bible for each of the ladies and
wrote the verse on which her eye rested.
	After the dinner, which was a sumptuous
one with ice cream and strawberries for desert
by request of the hostess each lady read her
card and each one seemed to feel she had an
appropriate verse. Then Mrs. Kimball taking
the lead the ladies rose, and before leaving the
table each in turn made a little speech allud-
ing to their association with the one in whose
honor they had met together, and it was, de-
cided to meet again next year at the home of
one of the ladies present.
	After dinner conversation upon the same
subjects was continued and other literary
papers of Mrs. King’s were read, it was a very
enjoyable and exceptionally agreeable party,
and the ladies were very grateful to Mrs. Kim-
ball for her unique tribute to the memory of
one so dear to them all. It was a day never
to be forgotten by those present.
	The names of those who responded to the
invitation were Mesdames -Louisa Spencer,
(Mrs. King’s daughter), M. Isabella Horne,
Elizabeth Howard, Fewson Smith, Elizabeth
Mc’Farlane, Alice Weinel, Emily H. Wood-
mansee and Emmeline B Wells.
	E. B. W.


