[Column 2]

And we wish on this occasion
Pure goodwill to show to all.
 
Gratefully we all remember 
  Honors that to you we owe,
You have passed the life’s December
 And our love we wish to show.

We would so reveal affection,
 While you stay with us today,
That from mutual recollection
It may never fade away.
 
When our mortal lives are ended, 
 When we pass to other spheres,
May our pleasure be extended
 Through unending happy years.
	WILLIAM CLEGG.
Prayer was offered by the chaplain, Bishop  
Packard.
	Hon. F. C. Boyer delivered an address of wel-
come; in which he praised the originators of the
movement and congratulated the visitors on the 
great harmony that existed even though there
were differences of views and opinions among 
them. He also read a welcome in verse written
by Lucretia H. Mower an aged lady of Spring-
ville.
	Pres. Geo.Q. Cannon who was called upon to re-
spond to the address of welcome, in the course of 
his remarks said that the honor paid to old age 
was a test of the civilization of a people an evi-
dence of their advancement. Expressed his 
pleasure in seeing religious and political differ-
ences banished for the time and all meeting as 
members of the great human family. Thought it
would indeed be a red letter day to the people of
Springville as well as the Old Folks, invoked
upon the assembly the blessing of heaven. 
Mrs. Lillie Boyer Gleason sang “Bring Back
the Old Folks,” she has a fine voice and excellent 
expression, her singing was very sweet and en-
joyable. The following address was then de-
livered by Mrs. Geo. E. Andersen, the lady has 
a full clear voice and forcible in tone and man
ner.
THE OLD FOLKS
	What memories cluster around this hallowed
name; the names of parents now with  us and
those departed to a better land ! They always
have the warmest corner in our hearts, the holiest
shrine in our memories.
	Our old folks, whom we honor today, from the
septuagenarian to those hoary locks crowned
with the star of a hundred years, where else upon
the broad earth can such a sight be witnessed?
Veterans from every clime,patriots from all lands,
here seated beneath the cool shade of Utah’s 
verdure, swept by the vivifying breezes from 
Utah’s grand mountains, bending above us the 
bluest of blue skies. Here co-mingling with each
other, is seen the type of many nationalities; the
sturdy Briton, who first saw the blue Albion vales 
the land of Shakespeare, Hampden and Crom-
well, coursing in their veins is the blood of the
Plantagenets, they have brought to our glorious 
America, and infused into our blood, that liberty
loving spirit so prevalent in the breasts of loyal
Americans. Some present here today first
breathed the air in bonnie Scotland, the land of
Scott, Livingstone and Burns, the home of the
blue bell and heather. Natives of Scandinavia
swell the ranks of our Old Folks’ party today,
the freedom loving spirit of the old Norsemen
burning in their veins; Denmark’s low sea girt
isle furnishes of her sons and daughters to make
up the numbers of our Old Folks’ jubilee. The
sons from the “ould sod” swell our numbers in
honor of this jubilee.
	Sunny France, classic Italy, romantic Spain
and many other nationalities are represented by
the Silver Grey veterans before us, honored
by all. We feel proud to do you honor; we look
to you as pioneers of human progress; it was


