[Column 2]
	I am positive that weak, frail, and as im-
perfect as I am, I have been blessed with a 
foreknowledge of something to my benefit, but
it came in a night vision and not with an
audible voice; and I was left to watch for the
result. It was comforting when it came, and
I felt to say the Lord does hear and answer
prayers today as He did anciently. Did He
not say in the last days He would pour out
His spirit upon all flesh. Then if we do not
obtain those blessings which He has promised
it is our fault, not His. I sometimes think
we are very much like children at school. I
am told that those the most bright and intel-
lectual are not always the best students. They 
think, oh, I can grasp taht intelligence when I
give attention to it, but now wish to do some-
thing else. When the next time arrives they
are not so well prepared to give their minds to
it But the dull student feels the need of this
intelligence and applies his mind and every
energy of his soul to grasp the same, and
asks the aid of his teacher to accomplish it,
because he knows how much he is in need of
the knowledge and appreciates it as he
would gold.
	I believe the Prophet Joseph to be one of
this class, an earnest, faithful student when he
saw the importance of the work; feeling his
own weakness, he sought earnestly the aid of
Divine assistance; and as we are told that God
is a spirit and those who worship Him must
worship in spirit and in truth. Such He de-
lights to bless.
	Joseph Smith was born in 1805, accordingly
he would be 85 in the year 1890. We are
told in Sec. 30 and 3rd verse that the work
of the Lord is never frustrated, but the work 
of man. The fourth verse reads: "For al-
though a man may have revelations and have
the power to do many mighty works, yet if he
boasts in his own strength, and sets at naught
the counsels of God, and follows after the
dictates of his own will, and carnal desires, he
must fall and incur the vengeance of a just
God upon him.
	We learn since this great work of the Dis-
pensation of the fulness of times is going on
that it behooves us all to watch and pray. Not
only so but to study the Scriptures that we may
have oil in our lamps, and not be like the
foolish virgins; I am inclined to believe the
Savior's work is now about to begin with the
blood of Israel the Jews; and it seems that the
year 1890 is to be the commencement of that
portion of the work.
	I remember that Apostle Orson Pratt once
said we were Gentile Saints. If so we must
improve upon that we have learned, and re-
member the Jews are to be saved and do a
work in the last days; and perhaps be more
zealous in the cause than we are today, for we
find ourselves overwhelmed by the cares of
this world many times, that we neglect the im-
portant lesson of "Seek and ye shall find,
knock and it shall be opened unto you."
	May we not become weary in well doing, for
in due time we will reap if we faint not. This
we can learn from Holy writ. But if we become
careless and indifferent in keeping the laws of
our Father, we will certainly lose our reward,
and darkness and confusion take the place of
light and truth.
	Let us therefore watch and pray, lest we
enter into temptation, and lose our reward.
	M.E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 22, 1891.


Love is a method of protracting our greatest
pleasure.—Goldsmith.
	The most distinguished literary woman in 
Rome is the Countess Lovatelli, who lives in 
a palace at St. Angelo,


