[Column 2]

Table cover from the 17th ward Primary
intended for the Logan Temple, embroidered
in the four corners. Louie Groesbeck 12,
corner marguerites, Cathie Dougall sun-
flowers, Geneva Ellerbeck, poppies; Stella
Jacobs, fuchias, Alice Taylor 17th ward,
10 years old darning, mending, marking,
tucking, in fact of all kinds of needle work,
very good indeed. Ray Grant 13th ward,
handsome handkerchief case made when
eleven years old. Edith Dinwoody 7th ward,
aged 14, painting on China very well executed.
Ray Chamberlain 8th ward, 6 years old,
paper cutting kindergarten work very pretty.
Bessie Frost 8th ward, 13 years old, apron
hand sewing, neatly done, crochet trimming
fine and even. Eva Sheets 8th ward, 14
years old a handsome bunch of artificial
roses. Minnie Oakey, 8th ward, aged 12, 3
owls on a thorny branch very natural attracted
a great deal of notice.
	Bessie Binder [--]th ward, 13 years old, a
child's white dre[--] hand sewing with 23 tucks
all even and ne[--] stitches. Clara Hanson 7
years old croche[-] work: cream colored scrim
apron and croche very odd and pretty, pillow
shams worked in birds and snnflowers crochet
lace very deep, edged with colored floss to
correspond with the embroidery, sofa pillow
and head rest, embroidered with chenille and
arasine, in moss roses and pansies several
specimens of penmanship, and dozens and
scores of other things too numerous to mention.
Machine embroidery a swan in the water
among the rushes was quite pretty; this was
by Lutie Ashton 9 years old. There were
only two essays notwithstanding the call made
through the papers and the offer of a prize.
	There were some very well executed paint-
ings in oil by Kate V. Moris 15 years old, 15th
ward. The best was a copy of Conway
Castle in North Wales; Scene in the Yellow
stone Park painted when she was only 13
years old; Council Bluffs a copy from one of
Fred Pierce's paintings taken when she was
14. Two plaques painted in flowers, one of
roses, leaves just falling. and one of poppies;
also a larga piano cover painted quite
elaborately.
	In addition to these there were many other
things well deserving mention if our space
would permit, besides cooking of an excellent
quality and in great variety. The Fair
was a success in every respect and the children
deserve great credit.
			E. B. W.


