[Vol46 | May 1959 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty Years Ago
Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1899
"For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS"

OBEDIENCE WITHOUT SEVERITY: Law is the governing force of the universe.... Nevertheless there are persons who hesitate to compel obedience lest they might injure the child's will power. But we think this is not so. Too frequently where there is strong will power displayed it is a manifestation of selfishness. Children do sometimes have strong instinctive desires in the right direction; therefore their motives should be most cautiously considered.... A stubborn, unconquered child is sure to develop into a man so self-centered and determined to have his own way that he will forego pleasures and even success rather than retract, and will be as he was when a child, his own greatest enemy..
—Amy Brown Lyman

EDUCATION AND MOTHERHOOD: The knowledge stored in days of youth can be brought forth from time to time, to enrich the minds of the children. 'They must look up to the mother; feel that she possesses the very acme of wisdom; then they are willing and respectful subjects. Mothers, live with your children, answer all their manifold questions... You must retain and add to the education of early years. The education obtained in school days, is only the foundation on which to erect the life structure.
—Lydia D. Alder

Am el "LC a
Religious freedom on thy soil,
Was born 'mid struggling bands,
And Liberty to light the world,
In New York harbor stands.

Shine on thou incandescent light,
Nor let thy rays grow dim,
Bring joy to earth's inhabitants,
With thy effulgent gleam.
—Lucy A. Clark

A FLOURISHING BRANCH: San Diego, California. In this far off, beautiful southern city of between twenty and twenty-six thousand, there is a little band of Saints organized, numbering probably thirty-five souls, all told.... The Relief Society is under the able management of Sister Amelia Jewell, at whose home the sisters convene... For the purpose of testifying of God's goodness and blessings, and to lend themselves physically for the relief and succor of those in need.
—Rhoda Celestia Nash

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY: This society is so perfectly organized that it is comparatively easy to carry out any plan formulated by the General Board.... Thus there are divisions and subdivisions of the society, which consists at present of thirty thousand members and more than six hundred branches scattered through this and other countries and on the islands of the sea.
—r. B. W.