[Vol46 | May 1959 | Sequence: 12 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial: Books—Recorders for the Ages | Author: Vesta P. Crawford]
ee DIT ORIAL m2 VOL.  NO. 5

(Books — Recorders for the Ages...

Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:11:18).

AN it be that the wide and wonderful world of books is being lost to many of our generation? Each year more and more good books become available—the thoughts and researches, the conclusions of great minds of our time, and innumerable new editions of the classics of the past. History, science, literature, books on art, volumes of sacred scriptures are easily secured. Books are being circulated through libraries in towns and cities, and, in some areas, bookmobiles distribute books even in isolated regions. Books on myriad subjects, suitable for all age groups, are available at small cost. Books, the recorders for the ages, companions of all generations, encompassing the tablets of the past and foreshadowing the future, are within reach for our information, our entertainment, our inspiration, and our spiritual advancement.

Yet there are many homes which lack this illumined acquaintanceship, and which seem to be unaware of these treasures of knowledge. Perhaps we value lightly the opportunities which are abundant. Our fathers and our mothers, our grandparents, many of them rejoiced in the few books they owned and the ones they were able to borrow. Books of poems, histories, Bibles, were brought in covered wagons and in handcarts to the valleys of the mountains, and the books were read by evening firelight, by flickering candles; they were read on Sabbath afternoons, on long journeys; and they were read by the farmer at noontime rest beside his field; mothers read to their children in shade of poplar trees and on the cabin porch. Isolation became union with a world of faraway people and places. Pioneer families on lonely ranches companioned themselves with books.

Rejoicing in her measure of such companionship, was a teenage girl, living all summer at her father's sheep camp on the mountain range. Only one book was available, a small, paper-bound book, filled with words of lasting strength and beauty "the light shineth in darkness... The voice of one crying in the wilderness.... There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water a well of water springing up into everlasting life." 'There were twenty-one chapters in the little book, and each chapter was divided and rationed, read over and over again, so that there would be a little reading for each of the long summer days that stretched slowly to evening on the high blue ridges. 'The small, paper-bound book was the Gospel of John, and when the girl became a woman she still loved books and rejoiced when other books and other scriptures opened for her the illimit- able vistas of this world and the worlds to come.

If we lose for ourselves the world of books, we lose much of our heritage; we lose the selectivity that may be exercised in choosing those volumes that will embellish our thoughts and our ways with treasures proved through the long years, and new delights that come to us in poem and story, in travelogues, in new light on ancient places, accounts of the widening panoramas of change. The myriad rooms of wonderment that books open are available to us and to our children. The books we read to our little ones in this their day of tender impressions will be their memories tomorrow, and they will hold in high esteem and with a lasting love, that mother or father, that grandmother or grandfather, that kind companion who sat beside the child and turned the pages of a book, opening for him the glorious world of experience and inspiration —the world that is so wide and so wonderful, and yet so small that books can capture much of it, for books are the recorders of the ages.
—V. P. C.