[Vol46 | May 1959 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V46_05_00_Misc]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp President First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - a. I See Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young

Vol. 46 MAY 1959 No. 5

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Editorial and Business Offices: 76

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 20,449 chars) ===

North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 283 Abraham Lincoln A STUDY IN ADVERSITY A. Hamer Reiser Assistant Secretary to the First Presidency made me, I have not made them." This is attributed to Abraham Lincoln as an explanation of himself. As a creature of adverse circumstances, Abraham Lincoln and his life offer a rewarding study. It is instructive to make a tally of the successes and failures of his life, to total them, and then to strike a balance and ponder the outcome. Another way to see him is as one wrestling with the dramatic forces of conflict inherent in his times and circumstances, to observe the preponderance of hindrances and the tardy achievement of success. If he had been notable for moral cowardice, self-pity, or neurosis, he would have succumbed early, drowned in the deluge of adversity which constantly washed over him. He stood, however, like a seabattered rock, lashed by storms of hurricane force, and survived the elements of defeat. He reduced himself to his lowest terms and has survived to the greatness of one who would "lose his life"' and save it. He wrote: "I was born February 12, 1809, in Hardin County, Kentucky. My parents were both born in Virginia, of undistinguished families — second families, perhaps I should say. My mother, who died in my tenth year, was of a family of the name of Hanks, some of whom now reside in Adams and others in Macon County, Illinois. My paPage 284 66 eet) ae have ternal grandfather, Abraham Lincoln, emigrated from Rockingham County, Virginia, to Kentucky about 1781 or 1782, where a year or two later he was killed by the Indians, not in battle, but by stealth, when he was laboring to open a farm in the forest. His ancestors, who were Quakers, went to Virginia from Berks County, Pennsylvania. An effort to identify them with the New England family of the same name ended in nothing more definite than a similanty of Christian names in both families, such as Enoch, Levi, Mordecai, Solomon, Abraham, and the like. "My father, at the death of his father, was but six years of age, and he grew up literally without education. He removed from Kentucky to what is now Spencer County, Indiana, in my eighth year. We reached our new home about the same time the State came into the Union. It was a wild region, with many bears and other wild animals still in the woods. 'here I grew up. There were some schools, so called, but no qualification was ever required of a teacher beyond readin', writin', and cipherin', to the rule of three. If a straggler supposed to understand Latin happened to sojourn in the neighborhood, he was looked upon as a wizard. 'There was absolutely nothing to excite ambttion for education. Of course, when I came of age I did not know much. Still, somehow, I could read, write, and cipher to the rule of three, but ABRAHAM LINCOLN that was all. I have not been to school since. 'The little advance I now have upon this store of education, I have picked up from time to time under the pressure of necessity. "T was raised to farm work, which I continued till I was twenty-two. At twenty-one I came to Illinois, Macon County. 'Then I got to New Salem, at that time in Sangamon, now in Menard County, where I remained a year as a sort of clerk ina store. 'hen came the Black Hawk war, and I was elected a captain of volunteers, a success which gave me more pleasure than any I have had since. I went the campaign, was clated, ran for the legislature the same year (1832) and was beaten— the only time I ever have been beaten by the people. The next and three succeeding biennial elections I was elected to the legislature. I was not a candidate afterward. During the legislative period I had studied law, and removed to Springfield to practise it. In 1864 I was once elected to the lower House of Congress. Was not a candidate for reelection. From 1849 to 1854, both inclusive, practised law more assiduously than ever before. Always a Whig in politics; and generally on the Whig electoral tickets, making active canvasses. I was losing interest in pollitics when the repeal of the Missouri compromise aroused me again. What I have done since then is pretty well known. "If any personal description of me is thought desirable, it may be said I am, in height, six feet four inches, nearly; lean in flesh, weighing on an average one hundred and eighty pounds; dark complexion, with coarse black hair and gray eyes. 285 No other marks or brands recollected." THE foregoing was written by Abraham Lincoln himself in 1859 to a friend, Jesse W. Fell, of Bloomington, Illinois, who wanted the information to promote his champion among his friends in the Fast. They had become curious about the homespun debater who had aroused the people during the epoch-making Lincoln-Douglas debates. Fell had told his friends: "We have two giants in Illinois; Douglas is the little Giant, and Abe Lincoln is the big one." The debates with Stephen A. Douglas mark a convenient meridian before and after which Lincoln's life can be divided. Before the debates, observe how the tally of adversity versus good fortune appears. His ancestry and parentage he described as "undistinguished." At eight he was taken by his fortune-hunting, land-hungry, farmer father, into the Indiana wilderness, where he grew up, with a minimum benefit of school and without the normal amenities of children. At ten he was orphaned of a mother, and for a time was mothered by an older sister, Sarah. In his book Abraham Lincoln, James Daugherty describes the lonely cabin where the sweet spirit of Nancy's love seemed to linger in the midst of a sorrow that was slow to heal. Yet, the children, without the tender munistrations of their mother went unkempt and undirected, except for the efforts of Sarah Lincoln, only fourteen years old. Tom Lincoln, sometime after Nancy's death, left the children in the Indiana woods and returned to 286 Kentucky where he found a friend of his youth, Sarah Bush (Johnston) then a widow. She became the children's stepmother. Abraham Lincoln throughout his life, in simple, thoughtful ways and visits expressed his gratitude to this compassionate woman for the care she gave the forlorn children. By 1830 the growing family was beginning to scatter. Sarah married and died in childbirth. Other Lincolns and Hanks had found fairer fields in IJlinois and 'Tom, ever the wanderer, sought greener fields. At twenty-one, Abraham was emancipated and on his own. He hired out to run a flatboat down the Mississippi to New Orleans for Denton Offut and later returned to be Offut's storekeeper at New Salem. It was on the flatboat voyages that Abe suffered the shock of observing the slave market where men, women, and children were bought and sold. During the New Salem days, Abraham Lincoln's popularity grew. His friendly good humor and his seemingly natural gift as a storyteller and spinner of tall tales won him a reputation which advertised him and brought him easy and attentive audiences wherever he went. 'This should be counted on the "asset" or "advantage" side of the tally sheet in this battle of adversity versus advantage. Good storytellers have a natural affinity for politics; or politics has magnetic power to attract tellers of tall tales. Abraham Lincoln's natural affection for people and his sincere interest in the well-being of his fellow men made him a natural champion of the rights and benefits of man in the arenas of law and politics. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 "THE story of his subduing the bully, Jack Armstrong, affords another glimpse of the force which won him respect among the hardy frontiersmen of the western wilderness. Self-taught Abraham, now an adult, acknowledged guidance and encouragement in learning from — Mentor Graham, the frontier schoolmaster; John Allen, the country doctor; Old John Berry, the revivalist preacher; Judge Bowling Green, and of Jack Kelso, Robert Burns, and William Shakespeare in about equal proportions. From such as these, Abe gleaned the rudiments of a love of learning. Abe was defeated in the first election at which he sought an office in 1832. Offut's store failed and Abe tried storekeeping in partnership with young Berry, the minister's son. They borrowed money to buy out Bill Greene, but the business was scant and the mounting debts inexorable. Adversity drove his partner to drink and early death, and left Lincoln in debt and out of business. For fifteen years he struggled to pay off the debts of his lone venture in business. He was appointed postmaster of New Salem and later deputy county surveyor. In 1834 he was elected to the State Assembly of Illinois. Here he had his first contact with the boisterous buffetings of frontier politics and democracy on the loose. The following year, legend says, Abraham Lincoln and _fair-haired Ann Rutledge, daughter of James, the mill owner, the tavern keeper, became engaged, but sudden, fatal illness took her away and thrust Abraham into the gloomy depths of despair. ABRAHAM LINCOLN It was in this era of his career that he began the practice of law as junior partner to Judge Stewart and in 1841 to Judge Stephen T'. Logan. The next year, November 4, he married the ambitious, much soughtafter Mary Todd, who had vowed that she would choose for her husband "the one that has the best chance of being President." In 1860, eighteen years later, her estimate was fulfilled, when he was nominated to run for the office of President of the United States. Amidst the rejoicing of his friends, he said: "There is a little woman at our house who is more interested in this dispatch than I am." In November, after the election returns were in, he announced to her, "Mary, we're elected." Joy to her; gloom and sorrow for him. He could discern the darkness of civil strife by that time, and the gathering storm clouds on_ the horizon. For one term — 1847-1849 — Lincoln was a Representative from [linois in the House of Representatives. Mary and the family had a brief taste of what life was in the Nation's capital. Here he was thrown into the midst of the political conflicts seething around the issues of slavery. His outspoken opinions on the subject brought his defeat and froze his immediate political future in [linois. He returned to the practice of law in Illinois. For nine years following 1849 he devoted himself to his profession and built his fame as a lawyer, riding circuit. The Missouri Compromise of 1850 he thought would "lay the ghost" of the slavery issue until by moderate, gradual means of educa- 287 tion and freeing the slaves by Government purchase the issue could be permanently buried. THIS idea of "gradual emancipation" of slaves by Government purchase had evidently become a deep-seated conviction with him. Repeatedly he tried to win his supporters to the idea. In February 186s, he made one last great attempt to use the principle to avert the further disaster he could see for the country. ~ To his cabinet he proposed that "Congress be asked to appropriate $400,000,000 to compensate the owners of slaves in such of the Southern states as should have ceased resistance by April 1," but the proposal was unanimously disapproved by the Cabinet. He was defeated again. Among his papers was found a note dated February 5, 1865: "Today these papers which explain themselves, were drawn up and submitted to the Cabinet and unanimously disapproved by them. A. Lincoln." Twenty-one years earlier, May 1844, in Illinois, less than two years after Abe had married Mary, and while he was practicing law in Springfield, another young man in Illinois, just four years Abe's senior, was nominated by his friends for the Presidency of the United States. He had announced as one of the principles of his political faith "to rid so free a country of every vestige of slavery and give liberty to the captive by paying the Southern gentlemen a reasonable equivalent for their property, that the whole nation might be free." In his address to the American people on that occasion, among other things, he said, "Pray Congress to pay every man a reasonable price for his slaves 288 out of the surplus revenue arising from the sale of public lands, and from the deduction of pay from the members of Congress" ("History of Joseph Smith," D. H. C. VI, pp. 197-209). The great debates with Stephen A. Douglas brought Lincoln before his countrymen where he expressed in simple, clear, and forceful language the convictions of millions that the extension of slavery would cause the collapse of Government of, by, and for the people. It was the essence of the betrayal of that principle of government, he thought. The Supreme Court decision of 1857 in the Dred Scott case, and the repeal of the Missouri Compromise by the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act projected him again into the political strife, which achieved its clearest expression in the debates with Douglas. Hf these debates are to be appraised as furtherances or hindrances to his career, it is well to consider that the outcome of the presidential election, though nominally a victory for him, showed that he had _ received 1,866,452 of the popular vote: Douglas, 1,375,157; Breckenridge, 847,953; and Bell, 590,631. 'Though he received a plurality, he was nearly a million votes short of a majority. He profited this time by the split in the Democratic party. His political career to this point had been notable for defeats and now at its peak, he barely squeezed through. Ahead rose the specter of bloody civil war with embarrassment, rebellion, calamity, and military reverses. 'These are the connotations of Fort Sumter, of the Battle of Bull Run of July 1861; the vacillations of General McClellan; the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 usurpation and premature actions of General Fremont in the West; the Trent incident, and the resulting embarrassment of making amends by the return of the Confederate envoys Mason and Slidell on the demand of Great Britain. E had painfully and impotently awaited inauguration in 1861, I while the Union was disintegrating under the bungling and inaction of President Buchanan, who turned over to him a Government and country in the shambles of rebellion. For four bitter, dark years the menace of the disruption of the Union haunted him and the American people. He was to taste the bitterness of defeat in the outcomes of the battle of Manassas, near Bull Run; of the campaigns of Stonewall Jackson in the Shenandoah Valley; Lee in the defense of Richmond; the empty victory of Antietam; the slaughter at Fredericksburg; the shock of Lee's victory at Chancellorsville; the desperate and costly triumph at Gettysburg, and the escape of Lee, to fight again. When the tide began to turn with the success of the Union Armies under Grant at Vicksburg, and later with the congregation of victorious Union generals at Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge, the stage was setting for the fall of Richmond. Yet there were tense days of awful suspense while Sherman's army assaulted Kennesaw Mountain, then marched through Georgia, disappeared for thirty-two newsless days, and at last reached the sea. Final victory at a staggering cost came with the fall of Richmond and Lee's surrender at Appomattox, April 9, 1865. Victory in sight, political conflict, bitter criticism, and opposition ABRAHAM LINCOLN swelled to a loud crescendo. The Nation, exhausted, spent, and destitute, in mourning, and crushed by the ravages of civil war, in the South, harbored the bitterness of defeat, and in the North and everywhere, empty victory and staggering losses, which rebellion and successful resistance had brought. The bleeding, sorely wounded Nation gasped its way painfully and slowly back to life. Abraham Lincoln had been renominated and re-elected, this time by a popular vote of 2,330,552, to McClellan's 1,835,985. The war was over. Armed resistance had ceased. 'The destruction of war was everywhere, in the lives of the people, in the cities, and in the war-torn countryside. Grief had visited millions of homes. 'The bitterness of defeat and the widespread suffering had taken heavy toll. Sorrow and sacrifice had drained the spiritual reserves of the people. When President Lincoln was inaugurated the second time he expressed the spirit and purpose now well known throughout the world, in the classical statement of good will: 289 With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the night, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan — to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations. In a moment of relaxation when he was about to take up the tasks of rebuilding the shattered and broken parts of the sundered Nation, an assassin took his life. Adversity again snatched away his opportunity, but spared him the knowledge in mortality of the tragic madness which followed his Mary to her grave. Though stalked by hardship, failure, defeat, and tragedy through the greater part of his life, with preciously meager respite in a few successes, Abraham Lincoln, the American Job, is remembered and_ revered throughout the world for vast patience, good will, and affection for mankind, and for monumental firmness in the night as God gave him to see the right. These everlasting qualities have survived the hatred of men, the havoc of war, and death. Ae: compassionate service which Relief Society women universally render so generously and stoically must bring them constantly into situations where adversity of many kinds is suffered by the people they serve. I expect that they observe that adversity has a mellowing effect upon some people and an embittering effect upon others. 'The reaction of people to adversity, I have long thought, is a manifestation of spiritual maturity. Abraham Lincoln is one of America's most eminent examples of the spiritual power required to overcome adversity. Joseph Smith is America's pre-eminent example. I offer this as an explanation of the reason for writing about Abraham Lincoln in the somber, tragic vein of this essay. I think his life is a classic of inspiration for all of us who must at some time face adversity in some degree. —A. HAMER REISER She astern States ll lission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Eastern States Mission may be said to be the oldest mission in the Church. Shortly after the Church was organized, in April 1830, missionaries were sent out and branches were established in New York, Pennsylvania, and in the New England States. In January 1832 Orson Hyde, Samuel H. Smith, Orson Pratt, and Lyman E. Johnson were called to preach the gospel "in the eastern countries." When the Twelve Apostles were called in 1835, they filled their first mission in the Eastern States. In 1837 a branch of the Church was established in New York City by Parley P. Pratt. In May 1839 John P. Greene was appointed by the Prophet Joseph Smith "to go to the city of New York and preside over the Saints in that place and in the regions round about." From that time on active missionary work in the Eastern States was continued, until the coming of Johnston's Army to Utah in 1857, when all the Utah missionaries in the United States were called by President Brigham Young to return home. 'Then, following the Johnston's Army episode, came the great Civil War, which prolonged the crisis. In fact it was not until 1893 that a new mission president was appointed for the Eastern States, Elder Job Pingree of Ogden, who established headquarters in Brooklyn.
