[Vol46 | May 1959 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Home | Title: Recipes From the Eastern States Mission | Author: Florence S. Jacobsen]
Recipes From the astern States Mission
Submitted by Florence S. Jacobsen

FROM THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH RECIPES

In the early years of the eighteenth century, nearly all the first settlers in Eastern Pennsylvania came from the Palatinate in Germany. They brought with them Tecipes of famous German cooks. Life was hard in America, and it was not always possible to

SAUERBRATEN (Pot Roast)
4 pounds beef (chuck, rump, or round)
1 bunch carrots, cut in strips
1 pint vinegar
6 onions, sliced
water
1 tbsp. Sugar
4 bay leaves
10 gingersnaps
12 peppercorns
salt and pepper
4 Cloves

Wipe meat with damp cloth and then sprinkle thoroughly with salt and pepper. Place in earthen dish and add vinegar and enough water to cover. Add the bay leaves, Peppercorns, and cloves, and let stand tightly covered for 5 days in a cool place (refrigerator). Put meat in a Dutch oven and brown well on all sides, Add the carrots and onions and 1 cup of the spiced vinegar. Cever tightly and cook over low flame about 3 hours or until meat is tender. When meat ls cooked, add the sugar and crum.- bled gingersnaps and cook for 10 minutes. This makes delicious gravy. If necessary, more of the spiced vinegar may be added.

LEMon Tarts
Sweet Pastry Dough
1 c. Flour
% c. Butter or other shortening
"2 ©. Sugar
Y2 tsp. Baking powder
egg yolk

Mix flour, sugar, butter, and baking powder together. Moisten ingredients using enough beaten egg yolk to make a dough just stiff enough to handle. Roll thin and line two small tart pans (small pie tins) with dough. Prick the bottom with a fork and bake in hot oven 260 minutes (400°),

Lemon Tart F illing
2 tbsp. Cornstarch.
Grated rind of % lemon
1 c. Brown sugar
juice of 1 lemon (large)
2 c. Boiling water
butter, size of walnut
72 Cc. Molasses (mild)

Mix cornstarch and sugar together and slowly add to the boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook until mixture thickens. Add molasses, butter, lemon tind, and juice. Cook one minute longer. Cool slightly and pour into baked pie shell. Serve warm or cold. Serves 6-8,

APPELSTRUDEL
2% c. Flour
1 c. Brown sugar
1 tsp. Salt
"2 ¢. Seedless raisins
2 tbsp. Shortening
"2 ¢. Chopped nuts
2 eggs, slightly beaten
3 tbsp. Melted butter
"2 C. Warm water
"A tsp. Cinnamon
5 c. Sliced apples
grated rind of a lemon

Sift flour and salt together. Cut in the 2 tbsp. Shortening, then add the eggs and water. Knead well, then throw or beat dough against board until it blisters. Stand it in a warm place under a cloth for 20 minutes. Cover the kitchen table with a small: white cloth and flour it. Put dough on it. Pull out dough with hands very carefully to thickness of tissue paper. Spread with mixture made of the sliced apples, melted butter, raisins, nuts, brown sugar, cinnamon, and grated lemon rind. Fold in outer edges and form a roll about 4 inches wide. Bake in a very hot oven (450°) for 10 minutes, reduce the heat to moderately hot oven (375°) and continue to bake about 20 minutes. Let cool. Cut into slices about 2 inches wide. Serve warm or cold.

SHOOFLY PIE
Make favorite pastry recipe and line two pie tins with dough rolled very thin (makes filling for two 8-inch pies).

Crumbs for Pie
3 c. Flour
1 C. Sugar
pinch salt
"2 ¢. Shortening
% tsp. Grated nutmeg

Liquid for Pie
1% tsp. Soda
small amount cold water
1 c. Light molasses
1 c. Boiling water

Mix crumbs ingredients into a crumbly mixture. Take out handful of crumbs and reserve for top of pies. Mix soda with a small amount of cold water. Mix hot water and molasses until thoroughly dissolved. Add soda. Pour molasses mixture into the crumb mixture. Mix thoroughly and pour into unbaked pie shell. Sprinkle the spare crumbs on top and bake in a moderate (350°) oven about 60 minutes.

FROM THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY
ECONOMY PRUNE CAKE
"2 ¢. Fat
1 ¢c. Nuts
1 c. Sugar
2% c. Flour
1 tsp. Vanilla
1 tsp. Cinnamon
2 tsp. Soda
% tsp. Salt
2 c. Cooked prunes cut fine, and enough
" tsp. Cloves
juice to fill measuring cup
7 tsp. Nutmeg

Cream fat and sugar together. Add vanilla. Add soda to prunes and juice. Mix dry ingredients together. Add nuts and pruncs to creamed fat and sugar, and stir thoroughly. Last add dry ingredients. Bake in greased cake pan at 300° F. For 60 minutes. (May bake in layers if desired — requires less baking time.)

WHIPPED CREAM FROSTING FOR PRUNE CAKE
2 tbsp. Flour
% c. Shortening
Y, ¢,. Milk
Yc. Butter or butter substitute
"A Cc. Sugar