[Vol46 | May 1959 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Would]
Would You Write Poetry? Sylvia Probst Young ATCHING a setting sun \¢ streak the summer sky with crimson and gold, a friend exclaimed, "If I could put such beauty in a poem!" "Have you ever tried?" I asked her. "Once," she told me, "but it didn't sound right." A good poem is never written with one trial. If you would write poetry you must know what to strive for, and then practice and practice with the technique you have gained. To be a writer of poetry, I believe that one must first of all be a reader of it. Read the poetry of the ancient writers, the poets of the Bible, early English literature, Shakespeare's poetry and other Elizabethan masterpieces, poetry of the romantic period, the great flowering of Victorian literature, American literature, from colonial times to current poetry. Analyze the types of poems appearing in great variety in modern magazines — literary pubhcations, women's periodicals, and Church magazines. Try to find the elements which make poetry appealing and significant — find the secrets of the art of poetry writing. Poetry, you will find, makes many kinds of appeals, through the pictures it creates; through the feelings it stimulates; through its rhythm and sound. It is a kind of window that has power to illuminate the commonplace. It is a lifting, inspirational thing, and through reading it, many of our own thoughts are born. The inspiration or idea for a poem comes first; it precedes everything WOULD YOU WRITE POETRY? Else; and every day brings inspiration for poetry writing. It is all around us, in the most ordinary things — a baby's shoe, a favorite chair, a child's upturned face. It is in remembered experiences, and those of which we have read. The thoughts for a poem may come through emotions we have experienced, and, most surely, from the fabric of imagination. "Sometimes I have such beautiful thoughts for poems," a neighbor once confided. "But when I get time to write them down, I've forgotten what I wanted to say." Get your idea down on paper, don't let it slip away, if you have to turn off the iron or even get out of bed at three a. M. Write it as it comes to you, don't worry about the meter or rhyme, you will come back to that. I like to keep paper and pencil always with me because I never know just when the idea for a poem might be born. After the inspiration, a poet must transform the raw material for a poem into a poem itself. FURST, let us ask, "Does the poem I am writing have substance?" A poem should tell something. It should give a new light on something people already know. It must be more than a description. It should reflect life. Could anyone possibly say after having read it, "Well, what of it?" "Does this poem have beauty?" is the next thing we might ask. It should be beautiful in its selfless sincerity, a clear, crystal showing of what has been experienced. It should satisfy and content the heart by the precision of its wording. 295 Emily Dickinson's choice of words is one of her greatest charms. And she often chooses words that have become worn to a shadow in minor verses, but she reveals them in new strength, and allows them to perform duties which the poets have not assigned to them for years. I would recommend her works for your reading. Many times in The Relief Society Magazine I have found poetry that gave me heart contentment by the beauty of its wording. Mabel Law Atkinson's "December Violets," The Relief Society Magazine, December 1958, is such a poem: Love does not wait till blue wings flash To bid the heart to sing; Till fluting larks and swelling buds Announce the proof of spring, Love knows no season boundaries, Gives lilacs in November And gathers April violets In crystal-cold December. A good poem never generalizes. Mrs. Atkinson does not say "Gives flowers in November," she says "Gives lilacs." She does not say "fluting birds," but "'fluting larks." Be specific. When you say tree you mean silver birch or oak. It makes a significant difference whether you see in your mind's eye a wisteria or an ivy when you say vine. Strength in a poem is often diminished because the author is too fond of adjectives. How overworked and trite are many of the adjectives we use day by day—stately lily, endless eons, winning ways, azure sky, beautiful day. These are but a few of the timeworn expressions that will brand your poem as the work of 296 an amateur. 'Try something new! Much better than roaring stream ls furious stream. Better than pale moon is chalk-white moon. Red wings of dawn is better than crimson dawn. Whenever possible substitute an adjective with a verb. Verbs give a poem strength, they put subject material into action. Choosing the tight verb is very important, too. Freshness of conception makes itself known by our choice of verbs. Look at these two lines from the song, "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot': A band of angels comin' for me, Comin' for to carry me home— Leave out the verb carry and use take instead. At once you will see that take does not have a tenth the power that carry has. Robert Louis Stevenson's "Windy Nights" is a very good example of the power of verbs in a poem. Nouns are necessary in a poem, adjectives — sometimes. "But by their verbs shall ye know them." Outdated words should never be used in a poem; they will brand it as the work of an amateur. Guard against such words as 'tis, 'twas, 'bide, o'er, yon, neath. Your poem will gain in effectiveness if you let it speak the natural language that you and your readers understand. [MAGERY is another means of making poetry poignant and appealing. Note the use of imagery in these lines from Vesta P. Crawford's prize - winning poem "Drought" (The Relief Society Magazine, January 1935.) And hollow like the dry and wrinkled fruit, I grew to be as withered as the field. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Beholding the desert that leered untamed After its ancient way and gave no yield. Images are always based on memory. Ask yourself, "Of what does it make me think?" There are three musts in imagery: 1. Images should be true, true to what most of us would feel under similar circumstances. 2. Images should be vivid. To make them vivid is to make them appeal to the five senses, five senses, not just sight alone. Give your readers not only pictures to look at, but sounds to hear, fragrance to smell, textures to touch, and even things to taste, and they will enjoy your poems with compounding interest. How appealing to the sense of smell is this little poem by Grace Barker Wilson (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1951): FRAGRANT MEMORIES Remembered things are poignant as today: The scent of violet, The young, green odor of a fresh cut lawn, Essence of mignonette; Elusive sweetness from the orchard trees When apples are in flower, The clean smell of a forest glade After a summer shower. 3. Images should also be concrete; no generalization is successful as an image. By using similies and metaphors, we can make our images interesting, vivid, and concrete. HE reader's point of view is very important to the writer of poetry. Ask yourself, "How will the reader interpret this?" When you are trying for a solemn mood in the reader avoid words which have gay connotations. Many times a word which jars in a line is merely a word in the wrong place. WOULD YOU WRITE POETRY? Repetition of pleasing vowel and consonant sounds is an effective way to attract attention to a particular phrase, and provides a compelling, haunting quality. Note the repetition of sounds in these lines: The singing of a swallow on the summer air. Above the ruffles of the surf Bright striped urchins flay each other with sand. But do not overuse repetition in your poem or the mind of the reader will be carried only on the surface of the sound. Rhythm, we are told, is fundamental to all the arts. In poetry the thythmical pattern consists of various arrangements of stressed and unstressed sounds. 'The meter, or measurable rhythm of a line of poetry, is characterized by a repeated pattern of stressed and unstressed sounds. A stressed sound combined with either one or two unstressed sounds in called a foot, and a description of a line of poetry is given in terms of the basic metrical foot and number of feet in the line. The rhythmical pattern of poetry must be studied to be understood. You can teach yourself this technique. Any good book on the art of poetry writing (I have recommended several at the end of the article) contains practical information. If you are willing to study and practice, you can learn to count the feet of your poem and make it rhythmically patterned. The rhyme scheme of a poem may fall into any one of many patterns, from simple couplet rhyming to complex stanzas, and a poet may try 297 almost any pattern that seems to suit her subject material, and which harmonizes with the mood and effect she wishes to convey. While rhyme is an important and effective embellishment of poetry, care must be exercised in the selection of rhyme words. Do not permit the rhymes to falsify the message of the poem. Be very careful of inversions, and do not use them for the purpose of achieving rhyme. When we say meadows gay, instead of gay meadows, the reader knows that we were forced to make the inversion for the sake of rhyme. Then is the time to revise. Omit the entire stanza if necessary and try another rhyme pattern, but do not use the inversion. Obvious thyming makes a poem commonplace and uninteresting. Such thymes as dove and love, wing and sing, bliss and kiss, have grown stale from overuse. Many significant and enduring poems have been written without regularly recurrent rhyme, without any rhyme, and without definite metrical pattern or stanza form. Poems written "free of traditional limitations" are somewhat loosely classified as free verse. 'The great poet Milton (1608-1674) referred to this type of expression as "thoughts that involuntary move in harmonious numbers." Some moderm poets have spoken of their "free'"" compositions as the "inevitable movement of emotion and meaning." Many unpatterned poems rely for their effect upon cadence, or phrasing within the poem. 'The Englishman, Matthew Arnold, wrote some of his best poems in free verse, and Walt Whitman, in America, is often cited as an example of pro- 298 ficiency in the wide range of free verse. Others who might be studied in this connection are: Amy Lowell, Archibald MacLeish, Conrad Aiken, T. S. Eliot, and Carl Sandburg. The Biblical Psalms, the Song of Solomon, parts of Isaiah, the magnificent chapters thirteen and fifteen from First Corinthians, and many other parts of the Bible are written in free flowing poetry of great strength and spirituality. However, the amateur poet, who is interested in experimenting with free verse, should be sure of his background in poetry, and sure of his purpose in a particular poem. Writing free verse does not give a poet license to express his thoughts in prose and call it poetry. Free verse, in spite of its freedom, places great responsibility upon a_ poet, and makes demands which are less RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 definable and perhaps less easy to attain than the well-defined requirements of traditional patterns. If you would write poetry, you must be willing to study, to accept the disciplines it involves; to be critical of your own work; to revise and revise, until you express to the full intensity and creative rhythm. That which you felt. Never ask yourself, "Is what I've experienced important enough to write about?" Of course it is! Poetry writing is soul satisfying, and an effective poem in print ls worth all of the effort involved. Why don't you try it? Of the books I have found helpful, I would most particularly recommend How to Revise Your Own Poems. It is a practical and helpful book on poetry writing. With it you can begin to teach yourself. REFERENCES Briacxmuir, R. P.: Form and Value in Modern Poetry, Doubleday Anchor Books, 575 Madison Avenue, New York City 22, New York, $1.25. Foucnaux, Mapeine: First Aid for Limping Verse, Camas Press, P. O. Box 3857, North Hollywood, California, 75c. Hamitton, ANNE: How to Revise Your Own Poems, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $1.50. Hittyer, Rosert: First Principles of Verse, Writer's Digest, $2.00. > So My Daughter Camilla Woodbury Judd I have grown old, my daughter, since you went away, Missing the radiance of your shining hair, Missing your face of heavenly sweetness, cameo chiseled; Your skin like velvet flower petals, Your laughing eyes, your lips so tender; The saucy tilt of your nose, the little dent in your forehead; The long expressive hands, so deft and beautiful; Your arms about me — your rare, sweet confidence. Missing all these so much, My heart grows young again at your returning. What's in a Story? Norma A. Wrathall HY don't you write a story \\) for The Relief Society Magazine Short Story Contest? Maybe you have already started one. Or maybe all you need is to get started. Let us begin with a definition, and then consider some of the ingredients of the short story. A short story has been defined as a prose narrative which depicts characters in processes of struggle and complications. 'The narrative usually centers around a principal character, with a special problem, against a specific background. A dominant purpose or theme should be in evidence, and the effective short story is marked by dramatic interest, involving significant human experience. In every story, six elements are present: setting (place); persons (characters); events (plot); idea (theme); emotion; and style. I have not listed them in order of their importance, for in any given story one element may predominate over the others. But in every story, all are present to some degree. There are three main steps in building the story: (1) finding the story; (2) building the plot; and (3) developing the narrative. Perhaps you have noted an expression on someone's face showing great joy, strong anger, or deep sorrow. 'The emotion seemed so intense that you kept thinking about it. You wondered what could have caused anyone to feel that way. You may remember a similar feeling in yourself, and recall the circumstance. You may wonder what events might have led to it, what had happened to the person to cause him to react in that way. And you have the germ of a story. Or, you may know of a series of events in which everything worked out rather smoothly, eventually turning out as planned. But you might wonder, what if something had happened to change those plans? What if, at a certain point, things had gone wrong? What then? And you would begin to have a story; you would think what the people (characters) might have done in the emergency, how each would have reacted to disappointment; what would have been the outcome. Or, you may have visited a place that fairly teemed with a story, such as a remote house; an abandoned farm; a seemingly peaceful village with an undercurrent of turmoil. Or, you may have a belief that you want to portray in dramatic action. I have read much discussion as to whether one should begin with theme, character, or plot. It is like trying to decide the old question of the chicken or the egg? As far as we are concerned, perhaps we should begin with the element that suggested the story in the first place, and then build in the other parts. This means that if we start with character, we decide on a certain characteristic in the person (such as truthfulness). We then portray this quality by presenting the character in incidents to which he will react to reveal this quality. If we start with plot, we have in mind a series Page 299 300 of significant incidents, then decide what characters would be necessary to bring to pass these events. In the same manner, one might begin with theme or setting. We can't have a story at all without people. N the short story, there is room for only one leading character. This person must be in focus most of the time in the story, if not in actual fact, then by reference. He should be rounded out as much as possible by his thoughts and feelings, his reactions to certain events, his reactions to other people, his appearance, the way he moves, walks, and talks. One or two minor characters, not so fully characterized, may be used to bring out the main character. But they must always be subordinate to him. Don't have any "scene stealers" in your dramatic situations. If you do, the story will be muddled and the reader confused. The character should be made sympathetic to the reader, so that the reader can identify himself with the story-person, and will care what happens to him. And before you can cause the reader to identify with the character, you, the writer, must identify with him yourself. You must be able to feel as he feels, think as he thinks, before you know how he will react to certain situations. Make your character natural and human. Even an evil character must be shown in such a way that the reader will think, "Well, I guess that's what I'd do, if I were that kind of person!" Everything that you write about the character must bring out the characteristic that you are trying to portray. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Here are some steps in character development: (1) Seleet an outstanding characteristic and show (as early in the story as possible) how the character acts to portray that quality. (2) Characterize by telling or showing the thoughts and feelings of the person. (3) Develop character in dialogue, ° which includes the speech of the characters in conversation, and also what other people in the story say about the main character. In writing dialogue, train your car to listen to your characters speak. Speech is one of the most difficult things in writing. For it one is not careful, all the characters will be talking alike, and chances are, in the same way as the author! (4) Appearance is important, especially so if appearance can be made to show, by comparison or contrast, the inner feelings of the person. For example: Aunt Sade's hair had always been held tightly at the sides by two brown combs. It wound into a smooth coil at the back, always in the same place, with the same thickness and smoothness. A lock had never been known to escape either of the combs and curl upon her high white forehead; it would not dare! (5) You can individualize your character by some little trait— such as pulling at his ear while thinking. (6) Movement is a language in itself, and sometimes shows far more than any of the other ways. Examples: Diana's bare toes skimmed over the dew-wet grass, a naughty elf fleeing from the prosaic morming ritual of getting dressed. Old Ernst placed one foot ahead of the other with such calculated economy of motion that one had to watch him a moment to know if he really moved. Remember, you cannot characterize your actor and then have done with it once and for all. You must keep on characterizing him right up to, and including, the end of the story. Now that you have the idea for your story, and the characters WHAT'S IN A STORY? Well in mind, it is time to begin on step two, building the plot. Don't believe it if someone tells you that she is not interested in plot. As well try to bake a cake without a recipe, or sew a dress without a pattern. The plot is the framework of the story, the skeleton upon which is placed flesh and skin and coloring. It consists of a series of dramatic happenings, arranged in climactic order, and containing struggle or complication. The first part of the plot is the situation. It contains the want of the principal character, and the problem which seems to prevent him from getting it. This part may end with the dramatic climax (the point at which the character despairs of attaining his desire). 'The second part is the solution, in which the character brings about, by his own effort or decision, the solving of the problem. To avoid a "forced result," it is well to have treated in the situation every factor used in the solution. 'The want should be introduced as early as possible in the story. It must be strongly motivated, so that the reader will be interested in knowing how it turns out. By complication is meant not merely a series of obstacles or stumbling blocks which can be rather easily overcome. For instance, we might be writing about a young girl who is going to college. We give her a strong motive for wanting to earn her degree in June. To do so, she must get credit in French. She is not linguistic, and the subject is hard for her, but by studying late at nights, and taking many notes, she thinks she can pass. But she loses her notebook just before the test. However, she finds it again in time 301 to "cram" for the exam. These things would hinder her, but they would not be complication. Suppose that when the girl found her notebook at the last minute, she stayed up nearly all night to study. But she was so tired and unnerved that right in the middle of the test she began to weep and ran out of the room, thus flunking the course. So, according to the rules, she would not be allowed to graduate in June. Now, based upon what you might have shown about her, what will she do? Will she accept meekly the ruling of the committee? Or will she find some way out of the dilemma? 'This would be complication, because it would change the course of action, and it would involve emotional conflict in the leading character. SOMETIMES the character may attain his original want, only to find that it is not what he needed or wanted after all, and a substitute goal is found. 'This usually grows out of, or is a variant of, the original want; it may be in the nature of a decision. Sometimes the struggle exists almost entirely in the mind of the character, and a decision is the outcome. But in any case, the pattern is the same: the well-defined want; the complication which seems to prevent its attainment; the solution to the problem. Write out your plot in outline form, in whatever way you like. I usually write in short sentences, double-spaced typing, then go over it and see if the incidents lead logically into each other. After I have written my outline, I often write the end of the story, rapidly, just as it comes to me, and 302 sometimes the first two or three paragraphs of the beginning of the story. Then, even with all the interruptions which happen to my writing, I can go back and get into the mood of it again. Each writer must decide what is the best way for her. Now we have finished for the time being with steps one and two. We are ready for the final step, the actual writing. Well, nearly ready. Who is to tell the story? If a character tells it, you will write in first person—the "I' story. If the author tells it, you will write in third person. 'Think it out in several ways. Now write your story. Write. Keep going, to the end, if possible, without thinking of wording or construction or technique. When you have finished, put the story away for several days, or even weeks. Forget it. This step is just as important as any part of the writing. When you are ready to begin again, read it entirely through from beginning to end as if you had never seen it before. Now you begin the real work of writing, the revision. Be sure that you have your writer's tools at hand, including your Roget's 'Thesaurus, a good dictionary, and a book of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 English grammar and composition for reference. Ask yourself these questions about the story: (1) Would the narrative move along just as well and be just as true and interesting without this incident? If so, leave it out. (2) What is the purpose of each incident? Does each one carry out, or lead toward, the general purpose of the story? (3) Is each incident, and the act of each character, properly motivated? (4) Does the story have suspense and emotional appeal? Cutting and shortening the story are also a part of revision, for you will always have to meet certain word-length requirements. As you see, there are many things to consider. But the best way to learn to write is by writing. Read published stories, and see how our principles of the short story are carried out by the authors. Read and study good reference books and articles in writers' magazines. And be sure to keep a notebook of ideas and characterizations, scribbled in quickly as they come to mind. Now put this article away. Write your story. You will work, and dream, and despair over it.