[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | January | Issue: 7 | Title: MARICOPA STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

		MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held Nov. 23rd, in
the Mesa R. S, Hall, commencing at 2
o’clock, with First Counselor Melissa
Hunsaker presiding. Attendance of 36
officers and members and two brethren of
the Stake presidency.
	After opening remarks, Prest. Florence
A. Dana reported the Mesa ward to be in
good condition. They have nearly fin-
ished the mothers’ work program. Prest.
Sophronia Stewart said the attendance at
the Alma ward was not as good as she
would like. They have reading from the
Doctrine and Covenants and mothers’
work lectures. Counselor Hunsaker said
all the wards had been visited and all
were striving to do right, Stake Secre-
tary Anna E. Fuller reported the Pine
ward in good condition both spiritually
and temporally. They have the mothers’
work lectures. Coun. Parmelia Horne
had visited the Mesa and Lehi wards
since returning home, but Lehi held no
meeting.
	Coun. Wm. J. LeBaron said that faith
without works is dead. Helping others
awakens in the human heart a love of the
Lord. The good results of the labors of
the Relief Society are truly felt when we
are in need, and the good we do comes
back to us in blessings; many opportuni-
ties are lost by those who are not organ-
ized in their wards for Relief Society
work. Other denominations are follow-
ing in our footsteps. Let our example be
worthy for them to follow.
	Coun. Isaac Dana said we will be judged
by our works and the records we make
here. The riches of eternity are gained
by the faithful.
	Stake Missionary Sarah M. Pomeroy
said that those who do not take hold in
this work are the losers. She rejoiced in
the gospel and was glad to help the
needy. Eliza Leavitt and Sarah Vance
bore testimony. Alice Richens said she
never forgot meeting days, and felt it to
be our duty to carry on this work. Bar-
bara Lang was glad to meet with the sis-
ters again. Had greatly enjoyed her visit
with relatives in the East, and had ob-
tained some genealogy and hoped to be
able to do some work for relatives who
are dead.
	Counselor Hunsaker made a few closing

[Column 2]
remarks and thanked the brethren for
meeting with us.
	Singing and benediction. Conference
adjourned.
