[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | January | Issue: 7 | Title: REORGANIZATION 22ND WARD, CITY. | Author: Unknown]

REORGANIZATION 22ND WARD, CITY.
	A special meeting of the 22nd Ward
Relief Society was called June 14, 1904.
Bishop Alfred Solomon presided. On
the stand were Bishop Alfred Solomon,
Counselors John L. Nebeker and Arthur
Winter, also Counselor Georgina Fox
Young of the Salt Lake Stake Relief
Society and Coun. Elizabeth H. Davis of
the 22nd Ward Relief Society.
	Bishop Solomon stated the purpose of
the meeting. He spoke of the good work
President Rachel Whipple had done.
She had been faithful and true to the pos-
ition she had held. He also spoke of the
faithfulness of her Counselors.
	President Rachel Whipple and Coun-
selor Maria L. Nebeker were honorably
released with the best wishes and love of
all. Bishop Solomon said the duties of
the Relief Society are great and urged
the sisters to visit the homes of those who
are bowed down with sorrow. He said
he hoped that the sisters would be willing
to accept and sustain those who would be
placed before them for their accept-
ance.
	Sister Elizabeth H. Davis was then
chosen to be President of the 22nd Ward
Relief Society with Mary L. Solomon as
her first and Harriet Maria James as her
second Counselors. All were unanimous-
ly sustained.
	Counselor John L. Nebeker spoke of
his regret at not seeing more of the sis-
ters present. Said he regarded the posi-


tion of a Relief Society teacher as a great
responsibility.
	Counselor Arthur Winter spoke for a
short time on the good that the Relief
Society had done in the Church. He
said he considered it second to none of
the auxiliary organizations. Sister Geor-
gina Fox Young of the Stake Relief
Society spoke of the wisdom in reorganiz-
ing. We can gain much by doing charity
work. Sisters Elizabeth Davis, Mary L.
Solomon and Harriet M. James each ex-
pressed a willingness to fill the positions
assigned them. Sister Lula Winn was
then chosen to act as Secretary, and ex-
pressed her willingness to act in the posi-
tion.
	The above sisters were then set apart
to their various positions under the hands
of Bishop Solomon, Counselor Arthur
Winter and Elder John Kingdon. After
singing and benediction, meeting ad-
journed.
		HARRIET JAMES, Secretary.


[Column 1]
