Arizona Temple | By Fay Ollerton, M. A. Five years ago the temple grounds at Mesa, Arizona, were part of an irrigated tract, close to the desert mesquite and cactus; and the interior of a "Mormon" temple was an enticing mystery to the uninitiated. Today a building, beautiful in its classic simplicity and gleaming walls of white terra cotta, stands in the center of green lawns, brilliant flowers, and slender cypress trees; and thousands of tourists pass weekly through the temple portal. They go in, many of them inclined to be amused, and afire with curiosity. But when they exit through the entrance door, with its inscription, "Holiness to the Lord," the questioning look is gone, and they walk with unseeing eyes through the long foyer of comfortable seats and vases of flowers and out of the hallway, as if they, too, had received some longed for understanding. If they come out not temple worshipers, they are at least impressed and silenced by the beauty they have witnessed. The Arizona temple has been open many months to all who throng the highway. And the highway, for the "Mormon" building lies on the south side of the old Apache trail, now a smooth band of cement. In less than two years 150,000 tourists, three-fourths of whom are non-Church members, have been guided through the temple, either by Elders Irvin King and Raymond Stewart of the California mission, or volunteers from the Maricopa stake. At the time of this writing, a little less than a month before the temple will be forever closed to chance visitors, the tourists are flocking in by the hundreds and thousands daily. On the third Sunday in September more than fifteen hundred of them thronged the building, one group following on the literal heels of another. 
 For some time, Tuesday has been the only week night open to visitors outside the Church, but so great has been the demand that every night for a month previous to the dedication, the gates will be opened. The devotees come, not as they did to temples of old, on camel back and bearing gifts; instead they ride in cars: rattling rusty ones of the modern hobo, camp-laden ones of the vacationist, and the upholstered purring limousines of the wealthy. In place of the gifts they ride laden with questions, and they do not leave the sacred building until their interest has been fed. Every week an average of thirty-three states and two or three foreign countries are registered. It is rather a strange fact that of all the races, the negroes seem to be the most interested. Practically every negro in Arizona, and Arizona, considering her small population, has a large number of them, has visited the temple at least once. They go through the building in specially conducted groups, and they listen intently to the explanations given in the lecture rooms. _ It is to James W. Lesueur, many years head of the Maricopa stake, and present assistant to the chief official in the temple, that honor goes for first suggesting the building to President Joseph F. Smith. Mr. Lesueur has been one of the voluntary guides and has taken many interesting persons on his rounds. Descendants of the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon have gone through with him; Oliver Cowdery's grandson from Cleveland, the grandson of David Whitmer, and Lehi Harris, worker on the temple and grandson of Martin Harris. Through cooperation with the railroads and automobile companies, the visitors have been made acquainted with the temple. Governor Lowden spent several interesting hours with Ex-president Lesueur. John Galsworthy came to Mesa, prepared to stay until his curiosity concerning the ""Mormons" was satisfied. He was in the temple more than three hours, carefully questioning his guide. "He took little interest in the building itself," Mr. Lesueur said, "he wanted to know about our belief and philosophy, and how we managed to keep our contacts with the young people of the Church." Another noted visitor was Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. One day thirty financiers and professional men, some of whose names are household words, were in the temple for an afternoon. Among them were Mr. Curtis and his wife of the_ Saturday Evening Post, and their interest rivalled that of the English novelist. MULTITUDES THRONGED ARIZONA TEMPLE 531 A woman came to the temple one afternoon with the announcement that she had read of the Mesa building in a Buffalo paper, and had straightway crossed the continent. "I've always wanted to see the inside of a 'Mormon' temple," she confessed, "and I decided this would be my one chance." Harold Bell Wright, for many years an inhabitant of Arizona, has written to know the latest date of the temple's closing, and if he may be admitted. Equally anxious is the Contractors' and Builders' Union of the Pacific Coast. This organization recently requested the officials to allow them to inspect the building one day after its official closing on October 16. Perhaps one of the most prolific days in Church history came when a car with eight persons stopped on the Apache Trail long enough to inquire about the new building. They lingered in the temple for several hours and returned later. Not long after, they were all baptized. "It is a fact, " Expresident Lesueur said, "that more than a hundred baptisms in this county alone can be directly traced to the influence of the temple." And so the visitors continue to pour in. The members of other churches in the surrounding country, who. Have long been familiar with "Mormon" tenets, show greater interest in the building, the missionary guides say. They want to know what the panels on the outside walls represent, the significance of the beautiful baptistry resting on the twelve terra cotta oxen, and the interpretation of the picture representing the creation of the world. Visitors from more distant parts appreciate the loveliness of the rooms, but question the guides as to beliefs and customs. Yet there are two rooms, the last to be visited, that invariably haunt the tourists with a desire to return. The first is the room typifying the future, beautiful in its chaste ivory lines, and the other the celestial room, its simplicity relieved by hangings of rich red velvet, Persian rugs, and especially designed furniture and mirrors. Opening from this room are the two small chambers where marriage is performed, and the visitors are always agog with curiosity when they step onto the soft rugs and smell the flowers from Salt River Valley gardens. "Ts it true,' one interested matron asked, "that all 'Mormon' children over twenty-one have to obey their parents when they have been sealed to them?" She looked as if she would immediately. Become a member of that faith if the guide answered in the affirmative. As yet the plans for the dedication have not been defi- 3? 532 RELIEF SOCIETY iMAGAZINE nitely announced. It is thought that the dedicatory services will be held two or three times daily for a week, and that most of the Church authorities will be in attendance. A special anthem has been written; it, with the prayer, will be given at all meetings. Ten choirs will be present, one Indian choir from the Papago ward. The Los Angeles and Hollywood choirs will sing early Sunday morning "from the roof of the temple. Mesa with its charm of broad streets shaded by drooping peppers, lacy tamarisks, and inviting palms, is making itself even more beautiful for the event. The inhabitants expect more visitors than have yet come at one time during the last six months that the temple has been completely furnished. These visitors, while they will not, in a sense, be more welcome than the preceding ones, will be those who have long. Looked forward to the day when the Southwest will have its own gathering place. Their welcome will be one of completer understanding, for they, with the Latter-day Saints in Maricopa stake, are happy in the thought that the young people will not have to make the expensive journey northward, and that the older members can realize desires of spending their fading years in one of the temples. Dedicatory week, beginning on October 23, will be joyful days for the visitors and the dwellers of the desert oasis. Thanksgiving By A. Henderson We thank thee for the winds that sing, The gentle rain, that tinkling falls, The purple dawn, the frosts that cling, The voice of love that thrilling calls. We thank thee for the ripened grain, Hope's harvest gathered into sheaves, For those who labor less for gain, Than for the good their spindle weaves. - We thank thee for a faith restored, 'We thank thee for the faults confessed, And when life's harvest, too, is stored, 4 We thank thee God for rest. MRS. INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN Member of General Board Inez Knight Allen Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, well-known to a host of friends in Relief Society circles, was called to the General Board. Of that organization, August 17, 1927. She is a woman of outstanding ability and personal charm, praticularly gifted as a leader. She was born on a ranch near Payson and is the eldest daughter of Jesse Knight and Amanda McEwan Knight. The ranch had to adjust itself to practically all the needs of the family, consequently father and mother had to be teachers in addition to all the other. Duties exacted from parents on behalf of their children. Here Inez learned to write and spell and recite the multiplication tables. In the evening the ranch was regaled with visits from farm boys, who joining with the children of the Knight family, held good, lively spelling matches. To this, home training was added two terms spent in the Payson public schools. The Knight family now moved to Provo that the children might have better educational advantages. As a result, Inez -ntered the preparatory department of the Brigham Young Academy in 1889, remaining until 1896, when her course of tudy was completed. Her Church work began with the teaching of a Sunday School class in 1896. In 1898, this work was suddenly brought to an end by a call for a mission to England. This was somewhat startling to neighbors, as prior to this time women had 'een called on missions only in connection with their husvands. Mrs. Allen shares the honor with her sister-in-law, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, of being one of the first unmarried women to be called to do regular work in the mission field. While performing her mission she attended the session of the International Council of Women. While on her mission she assisted in conference work all over England and Wales, did six months work in Bristol, and eighteen months in the London district. While touring the continent she visited France, Germany, Switzerland and Holland. On her return from her mission she acted as matron of the Brigham Young University for two years, a position comparable to that of Dean of Women. At the same time she sérved her father as secretary, at a period when his business was daily reaching larger and larger proportions. On June 11, 1902, she married R. E. Allen, son of President Thomas L. Allen of Summit stake. Five sons have ' INEZ KINGHT ALLEN 535 been born to their union, the third while his father was serving aS a missionary in the British Isles. Three of the sons - have been called on missions. Two are at the present time in the mission field, while the two younger sons are doing college work in the Brigham Young University. Mrs. Allen's Relief Society work began in the office of secretary, a position which she held from 1904 to 1905. At the same time she taught the first parents class organized in the first ward of Provo, the ward in which she has lived since her marriage. On January 10, 1906, she was called to be a counselor to Martha B. Keeler, President of the Utah Stake Relief Society. She has always valued her connection with Mrs. Keeler, for with her. She became initiated into Relief Society work, During this period Mrs. Allen acted as chairman of a committee of the Utah Stake Board, to whom was committed the work of preparing and publishing a five year outline of study, a pamphlet which was used throughout Utah stake and in a number of other stakes, by permission of the General Board. This was before the General Board published outlines of study. Utah Stake had used some outlines prior to this time, prepared by President Martha B. Keeler. Mrs. Allen's. Work was a continuation in this line. When, in 1918, Mrs. Keeler saw fit to retire as President of the Utah stake, Mrs. Allen was appointed president, a position which she held from February, 1918, to January, 1924. Her term of office was a very progressive term. The method of doing charity work was in a sense revolutionized. A trained social worker was engaged and installed in the office and a community welfare system taking into account modern scientific methods of doing welfare work, was inaugurated. The progress made in this work, which was new and exceedingly difficult, marked Mrs. Allen as far-sighted ana as a leader of tact and insight. She has always been interested in public affairs. She was the chairman of the Utah County Council of Defense and Liberty Loan Committe during the World War. During Mr. Mabey's incumbency as governor, she acted on the State Welfare Board. She was vice-chairman of the County Red Cross, a position which she filled in a notable manner. She is the only woman in Utah county who has received the nomination on a ticket for the State Senate, and in 1924, she served her party as a delegate in the National Convention, which was held in New York City. She has inherited great sympathy and understanding of human'kind from her parents and possesses in a very marked degree the philanthropic spirit of her father. She comes to 
 the General Board well prepared for the work, gifted as a speaker, with a breadth of vision and depth of feeling that makes her intelligent in her judgments aaa sympathetic and tender in all her contacts. Pies Ida Peterson Beal. The Junior member of the General Board of the Relief, Society is Ida Peterson Beal. In her womanhood she reveals all the charm that her girlhood promised. She was born in Ephraim, Sanpete county, and is the youngest daughter of the late President Canute Peterson and Charlotte Eckstrom Peterson. Her home is described, by one who is well acquainted with it, "as a good, old-fashioned, hospitable home where every stranger found a welcome." Her early education was received in the grade schools at Ephraim and later in the Snow Academy, from which she was graduated. Following her work at Snow Academy she attended the Brigham Young University, where she remained nearly three years. She specialized in music in that institution, and under the able training of Professor A. C. Lund, made rapid advancement. While at the Brigham Young University she had one of the most musical and truly beautiful voices that has ever been heard in the institution. She will be remembered by those who recall her work there as one of the first of Professor Lund's students to receive general recognition and admiiration because of her unusual gift of song. She took the leading role in the first opera staged by the music department, playing opposite to Oscar A. Kirkham, Executive Secretary of the Young Men's organization. On her return home she taught two years in the grade schools of Ephraim, later marrying T. A. Beal, son of President Henry Beal, who was then serving on the faculty of the Snow Academy. This ambitious young couple continued their work first in the University of Utah and later at Columbia Uni- 'versity, New York City, Three years were spent in the eastern metropolis, where Mrs. Beal was enrolled for special work. Q ' On her return home she was called to the presidency of the stake Primary Association, a position which she undoubtedly filled with delight to the children, as she is just the type 'of person to whom children are instinctively drawn. ~But her time was not solely taken up by the Primary Association, for Member of General Board MRS. IDA PETERSON BEAL 
 the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Relief Society each claimed a share. In 1913, her husband accepted a professorship at the University of Utah, which established her in Salt Lake City. Since her residence in Salt Lake City she has served both the Y. L. M. I. A. And the Relief Society in an official capacity. About four years ago she was called to be a member of the Liberty stake Relief Society Board. A year, covering part of 1925 and part of 1926, was spent in Europe, where she took advantage of opportunities offered in the cities of Heidelberg and Berlin—cities noted for their cultural advantages. While abroad she came in contact with different auxiliary organizations of the Church, to whom she bore her testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work. On August 17, 1927, she was called to be a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She is active in civic Organizations as well as Church organizations. At present she is the secretary and treasurer of the Woman's National Republican Federation, also president of the Faculty Women of the University of Utah. All her work has been done joyously, and all who have come in contact with her have felt radiating from her a spirit of delight that characterizes only those who love deeply and — sincerely the work they are doing.