Abraham Lincoln in Modern Poetry
The vogue of Abraham Lincoln among modern poets is extraordinary. The agreement as to the nobility and magnificence of his character, and the work he accomplished, both in life and in death, should be gratifying to all who love the American Republic, and rejoice in its growth.
Edwin Markham tells us that the Norn Mother came down: "To make a man to meet the mortal need. She took the tired clay of the common road?" and made a man: "to hold against the world, a man to match the mountains and the sea." Further on, Markham tells us: "And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down As when a lordly cedar, green with boughs, Goes down with a great shout upon the hills, And leaves a lonesome place against the sky."
Edwin Arlington Robinson's poem, dedicated to Lincoln, is a poem of great dignity and deep sentiment. He tells us in this poem, which he calls "The Master" that: "He came when days were perilous And hearts of men were sore beguiled; And having made his note of us, He pondered and was reconciled. Was ever master yet so mild As he, and so untamable? We doubted, even when he smiled, Not knowing what he knew so well."
In Vachel Lindsay's popular poem "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight," he describes Lincoln as: "A bronzed, lank man! His suit of ancient black, A famous high top-hat and plain worn shawl Make him the quaint, great figure that men love, The prairie-lawyer, master of us all."
Edgar Lee Masters has given us a poem on Abraham Lincoln through "Anne Rutledge," his sweetheart. We include the poem:
Out of me, unworthy and unknown, The vibrations of deathless music; "With malice toward none, with charity for all." Out of me the forgiveness of millions toward millions, And the beneficent face of a nation Shining with justice and truth. I am Anne Rutledge who sleep beneath these weeds, Beloved in life of Abraham Lincoln, Wedded to him, not through union, But through separation. Bloom forever, O Republic, From the dust of my bosom!
Noble in life, and noble in death, whether a subject of bronze statue, or the theme of the poet, Lincoln's personality stands out in rugged magnificence and humane glory.