Norway and Sweden May Booth Talmage; Our few hours voyage from Denmark to Sweden left impressions vivid and delightful. A lovely sea reflected the bluest of skies, and brilliant sunshine glinted the seething foam formed by the ploughing boat. All too soon we sighted land again but the approach to shore held much of interest. One lone dwelling, built high upon a barren boulder on the promontory, raised a query as to what life tragedy had sent its owner to seek such isolation. Fourteen government warships were anchored in the Swedish harbor. Were they there for proud display only, or did they foreshadow trouble? One knew not, but the sight was most impressive. Two smiling lads—elders I mean, who nevertheless looked like lads—Forsberg and Larsen by name, were waiting for our boat to land at Gothenburg. They escorted us to the modest conference home and assisted nobly in sharing its responsibilities with good old Branch President August Hedberg, who cannot speak or understand English. Following the public session that evening, and the subsequent Priesthood and Relief Society meetings, we were privileged to greet the members of that splendid little branch, and with the magic that is wrought by the gospel spirit they at once ceased to be strangers and were transformed into friends. An early missionary meeting next morning, a short car ride through the streets of that interesting old city, another of the inevitable farewells that always seem to come too soon, and we were once more speeding on our journey, this time to the nation's capital, Stockholm. A nine hour's ride through a country of never ending lakes and trees and flowers and rivers with a gorgeous sunset as we approached our destination, at 9:20 o'clock brought us indeed to the "end of a perfect day" so far as beautiful scenery could make it such. We were welcomed here by President John A. Anderson and a number of his associates who were awaiting our arrival. Our days in Stockholm were filled to the brim with activity. While there we were the guests in the hospitable home of Brother and Sister Einer Johansen. The comfortable chapel owned by the Church was a veritable garden of Eden, made so by its festoons of greenery, potted palms and flowering plants, and its profusion of exquisite cut flowers, bewildering in variety and color. This fragrant loveliness spoke welcome in louder tones than beat of drum or blast of trumpet could have done and produced a feeling of appreciation in our hearts too deep for words to adequately voice. NORWAY AND SWEDEN 63 te fondhjem. Stiftsgaarden; ms Audiénssaien. DINING ROOM IN KING'S PALACE AND DRAWING ROOM OF KING'S PALACE, TRONDHJEM, NORWAY The success of previous conferences held in other lands was again repeated; the same strong testimonies borne; the same excellent music rendered, and the same spiritual uplift at its close. How can one describe in cold English, events that are chronicled only in the language of the heart? » Lack of time prevented much sight-seeing in Stockholm and lack of space precludes a description of any but the outstanding features of what we saw. An interval between two sessions of the 
 missionary meeting gave opportunity for some of the visiting elders and myself to see the world-famed Statshalle (City Hall). Herein we saw some beautiful decorative art wrought by the brother of the crown prince. The latter, by the way, was at that time a guest in Utah. It was quite difficult to believe that the bright rich tapestries which decorated the walls in one room were not entirely new, instead of being the products of by-gone centuries, as we were assured. Our attention was challenged by the unique lighting arrangements in another stately hall. Large mirrors formed the wall panels and into the center of these were fitted the candelabra wrought in the form of beautiful crystal sprays, which were' reflected in the mirrors, producing an effect of indescribable loveliness. The most gorgeous room was the one with walls done in gilded mosaic. At intervals, scenes were wrought out in colors which depicted important events in Swedish history. Another spacious room, used, we were told, for large conventions, official balls, and the like, contained an organ said to be among the world's best. The legislative hall was wonderfully beautiful with its old-rose, deep-piled carpets brought from England, and its luxurious Italian tapestries. It is not strange that the people are proud of this great monument of cultural beauty. We found much of interest in our visit to the King's Palace. The state dining room was different from any we had seen, in having six large built-in china cabinets at intervals down one side of the room. These faced the six large windows down the opposite side, and each was filled with one kind of rare china—Dresden china from Germany, Royal Crown Derby from England, etc. The room in which the King and his cabinet hold weekly session was worthy of its royal occupants, yet less beautiful, we thought, than the main office of the Presidency of our Church. Outside the building we watched the changing of the King's guard, an affair of great ceremony and which about two thousand people had gathered to witness. On Tuesday, while the mission presidents were engaged in consultation, the missionaries accompanied me to see Gripsholm, the luxurious vessel made famous because it conveyed the Swedish royal couple to America. It had been brought from Gothenburg into the harbor for the first time, and people were lined up for a long distance from morning until night waiting for small boats to convey them across to inspect the great liner. Our time was much too valuable to waste in waiting, so we dropped out of line and. Visited a splendid: museum instead, and then returned to the mission home for luncheon, where our dear Relief Society sisters came each day to prepare a meal for all the missionaries who were attending the conference. We appreciated their efforts and their kindness in this hospitable service and were glad to learn that their devotion to the regular Relief Society work was constantly manifest on the same efficient lines as were so clearly demonstrated in NORWAY AND SWEDEN 65 their manner of providing delicious meals for so many guests. On Tuesday night we left for Norway, having held another public meeting, on the preceding evening. A large number of missionaries and some of the Relief Society members came to the station to bring us flowers and say good-bye. As we boarded the train and turned to bid hearty farewell the entire group said in English, "God be with you till we meet again." Our hearts were. Deeply touched by this act of thoughtfulness.. By noon next day we were in the capital city of Norway, formerly Christiania, now Oslo. On our first evening in Norway we were delighted to visit a regular session of the M. I. A. Again the language was strange but the spirited way in which things moved along, the fine singing, the capably rendered program, and ww L. D. S. CHAPEL IN STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN, SHOWING POSITION OF DECORATIONS lively discussion left no room for doubt as to the type of work being done by that organization. President Martin Christopherson, who had been in Bergen, arrived after the meeting, and so far as was in his power gave us the keys to all of Norway—thus hearty was the welcome he extended. With him we visited the Royal gardens where as a boy he was employed as assistant gardener. It was a rare privilege to listen to his reminiscences of those far by-gone days and to see his face light-up as he pointed out this spot or that of special interest. The flowers, though gorgeous as befits a king's garden, were "not quite as lovely as of yore." One could just see - merge) pictures unfolded in his mind that day—a rare treat indeed! We went also to see the ancient viking ship, and lived for half an hour in the atmosphere of the brave Norsemen of olden days. 
 A visit to one or two good museums and a drive to the top of a hill from which was obtained a fine view of the surrounding country— through a mist—are some of our pleasant experiences in Oslo aside from those connected with Church duties. Of the latter, the first was a really splendid party given on July 24 to honor the pioneers. The hall was decorated with the flags of Norway and America and the long tables were strewn with sweet-pea petals between clusters of cut flowers. An excellent program suited to the occasion was thoroughly enjoyed. The conference held on Sunday, the 25th, was marked by a spirit of great earnestness. One of the three general sessions, that of the afternoon, was given over entirely to Relief Society interests. Sister Borghild Nielsen, the efficient mission secretary, is responsible in large measure for the up-to-date work done by these organizations in Norway. A Relief Society officers' meeting and a special Priesthood session were also held between times so we were delighted with the opportunities thus afforded to give more specific help., Our last hour in Oslo, before retiring on Monday night, was spent with Mrs. Riter, Mrs. Jennings, Miss Van Cott and Miss Cannon, who had just arrived from a trip through the fjords. We were due to leave early the following morning, so we made a special effort to see our friends, although the hour was late. We shall always be glad for that opportunity because the next word we heard of them reached us after our trip to the far north, and on arriving at Liverpool a home paper conveyed to us the news of Mrs. Riter's death. The fourteen-hour train ride from Oslo to Trondhjem in company with the mission president and secretary was full of interest. The Norwegian scenery is entirely different from that of Sweden yet not less beautiful to me. This day we climbed and climbed to the summit of a mountain watching the river, which was large at the bottom, diminish gradually until it was only a tiny stream; and then as we descended on the other side we watched another, tiny at its source, but continually fed by springs and numerous waterfalls, until it developed into a good-sized river at the base. The Norway spruce and pine and juniper; the neat log cottages dotting the hills; the little patches of garden, and the bright touches of color in children's clothing, made a charming picture. Visitors to the branches of our Church in these far northern countries are far from common, so although the missionaries are few the welcome extended was genuine indeed. We were invited on this day following our arrival to share in a delicious supper at the home of the Relief Society president, Sister Radke, whose birthday was the occasion for the little party. This was followed by a public meeting with the usual good results. Before the boat left the next day there was opportunity to visit NORWAY AND SWEDEN 67 the historic Dom Kirke in which all the kings of Norway have been crowned, a long journey to take from the capital, but the tradition is sufficiently strong to preserve the custom. Also we went through the king's palace in Trondhjem; seldom used, it seemed to us, between these coronation times. However, the caretaker informed us that His Majesty was recently there for one night only, while enroute to Boda, to open an exposition. A long frame building is this palace with wall jutting on the street, white flower-strewn blinds, stoves and chandeliers that were made about the time of the American Revolution, ingrain carpets in many rooms, and yet there was an "air" and a quiet dignity that gave it charm. The hotel at which we stayed was beautiful, but so crowded we were able only to have a sitting room with beds brought in for the night. In the supper room the air was dense with smoke. Nearly all the men and women smoked and chatted and drank wine, going to the adjoining ball room for a dance between times; the women were richly dressed and the whole scene might have been in the heart of London or Paris instead of in that northern Norwegian town. It all seemed so remote from our little gatherings with the Saints—we were aliens in spirit as well as is nationality to all that was before us and the thought came very forcefully that the time had come when men would be "heady, high minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God," and we were thankful again for the gospel. On July 29, before departing on the little boat that was to take us on a three-days' journey into the arctic region, we held an hour's meeting in the little cabin with the Relief Society sisters who came to see us sail. This was made possible because the starting was delayed but we all appreciated that quiet hour together. Again my space is filled so the visits to Narvik and Bergen must await attention in one more article.