Women Hold Second Peace Conference
In 1922 we attended a conference of women, in Baltimore, at which Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and Lady Astor were the outstanding personalities. In a speech full of warning, Mrs. Catt said in substance, all our achievements of the past will be of no avail unless we can find a way to stop war. It is the only thing that can hinder our playing a losing game. Women are the greatest sufferers in war, consequently they should be the most interested in its abolition.
Just two years ago the first conference of women was called to consider "The Cause and Cure of War." This conference held its second session during the early part of December, 1926. Delegates from nine women's national organizations met and discussed information assembled during the two years intervening. It is most fortunate that the women have as chairman of their peace committee a woman as able and as enthusiastic as Mrs. Catt. Recently she issued a statement which follows:
"We have now, after two years of study, a pretty clear understanding of the causes of war. We believe that all war causes may either be removed entirely, or kept under control, and are now certain that it is the business of all governments that call themselves civilized to find the way."
The organizations included are: The American Association of University Women, General Federation of Women's Clubs, National League of Women Voters, Young Women's Christian Association, National Council of Jewish Women, Women's Christian Temperance Union, Woman's Trade Union League, Council of Women for Home Missions, and Federation of Women's Boards of Foreign Missions in North America.
One of the outstanding fields of public service for Christian women, at the present time, is that of striving to have nations settle differences rationally and amicably, instead of in the barbarous way which has been the wont of the world for centuries. Movements for peace have as their essence the desire to make the world a better place to live in, and to bring about that time when God's will shall be done on earth even as it is done in heaven, consequently we welcome the women's move towards peace, as we also welcome the setting apart of a peace Sabbath, such as the second of January of the present year. We should hold in mind, always, the beautiful memory of the angel choir that announced the coming of our Lord as one who would bring peace on earth to men of good will.