	THE VENICE ASSEMBLY.

	There are many ideal summer resorts in
this country at the present time, but for
novelty and genuine attractiveness nothing
has ever been built which will surpass Ven-
ice, which is now being completed on the
Southern California coast just south of
Santa Monica. Nature has done much for
this delightful spot, but during the past
year the finest architect and landscape
gardener and the best engineer have been
busy, and the result is a modern Venice
with miles upon miles of salt water canals,
stately Venetian palaces, business blocks
and places of amusement; and while it will
not be completed until the first of June, the
work is so far advanced that a fair idea of
the rare attractiveness of the place is ob-
tained by any who go to visit.
	Venice is easily accessible, being but
thirty minutes’ ride from Los Angeles on
a modern electric railway. Besides its
many attractive features which will be
maintained all the year round, arrange-
ments have been made for a great assembly
to be held during July and August of 1905,
in a pavilion seating 3,000 people, on the
pier some 300 feet from the shore, beyond
the line of breakers, where the breezes are
always cool and where everything conspires
to make every hour pleasant. Benjamin
Fay Mills, whose name is known wherever
the English language is spoken and who
has recently become Permanent Minister of
the Los Angeles Fellowship, has been elected
President. The Secretary is the Hon. Dana
Burks, while the Vice-Presidents who have
accepted their election include the Hon.
George C. Pardee, Governor of California;
the Hon. George C. Perkins, U. S. Senator
from California; the Hon. Thomas R. Bard,
the Hon. Franklin K. Lane, the Hon.
William E. Smythe, founder of the Nation-
al Congress of Irrigation, and Abbott Kin-
ney, Esq.
	The plan includes first a series of national
sociological congresses on a scale never be-
fore attempted in America, except at the
World’s Parliament in Chicago during the
World’s Fair.
	A feature which will command attention
is a Summer University at which all the
lighter branches of general culture are to
be taught, including a School of Music, a
School of Modern Languages, a School of
Nature Study, a School of Ethics, and a
School of Expression.
	The plan provides for a series of lectures,
dramas, concerts, and other entertainments
of the highest class, participated in by lead-
ing people in their line in this country.
	One of the finest concert bands in the
country has been secured to give two pro-
grams a day. Entertainments will be fur-
nished by the amateur dramatic society, ex-
hilarating recreation will be provided in the
form of pure and ennobling amusements,
and a general effort made to promote good
fellowship.
	The spiritual department will not be
overlooked. Every Sunday morning a
great undenominational service will be held

[Column 2]
in the auditorium with the finest sacred
music, sermons being delivered by repre-
sentatives of all the great religious beliefs.
	No better idea could be given on the
scope of the work outlined than through a
more detailed analysis as planned for the
first division, which will be known as the
World’s Parliament. Under this head it is
planned to hold nine great assemblies or
congresses, beginning July Fourth with a
California Congress, at which it is expected
Governor Pardee will preside. Others in-
vited include U. S. Senators Perkins and
Flint and the Hon. William E. Smythe.
	A Patriotic Congress will follow to con-
sider national and inter-national interests.
The President of the United States will be
invited and strong hopes are entertained
that he will consent, as he expects to attend
the Portland Exposition. Secretary Taft
will be invited to speak on “Our Colonial
Problems,” and the presence of other
speakers of national prominence secured.
	Another great assembly will be known
as the Reform Congress, to which Mr. Al-
bert Shaw, Governor Alva Adams, Miss
Ida Tarbell, Senator La Follette of Wis-
consin, Mr. Thomas J. Lawson, Mr. Clar-
ence Darrow, and others are to be invited.
The other six congresses are to be as fol-
lows: One of Universal Peace, another to
be known as the Economic Congress, an-
other the Congress of Religions, then a
Philanthropic Congress and a Congress of
Psychic Research will follow in the order
named, at all of which speakers of world-
wide fame and of varying views will be in-
vited to give free, courteous expression to
their various opinions, the congresses clos-
ing on the first day of September, making
two months of greater activity along edu-
cational lines than has ever been enjoyed
at any summer assembly in the world.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw writes: “I see by 
the papers that in the report of the resolu-
tions passed by the Woman’s National
Council it is stated that ‘I led the attack’
on certain resolutions, and that I said when 
the race was not worth reproducing women 
should practice race-suicide. As a matter 
of fact, I left Washington Thursday noon,
and the resolutions were not presented till 
Friday, and there was no mention of race-
suicide. The reporters were determined to 
get some expression from us on the subject,
and we refused to be interviewed. But it
seems to make no difference whether you 
talk or not; they make up an interview or a
discussion.”


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

