IMPORTANT PERIOD OF TIME.
	The important times in which the people
of this age are living call for moral cour-
age and great strength of character, in ord-
er to withstand the pressure brought to
bear by the momentous events transpiring;
in fact, one cannot help feeling that the
powers of evil are increasing in force, as
truth mighty and strong makes its march
onward more powerful. 
	Surely perilous times have come, accord-
ing to the prediction of ancient Apostles,
who said, “In the last days perilous times
shall come,” and men’s hearts shall fail
them because of the dreadful calamities that
will overtake the world. 
	Not only in the prophecies uttered by the
disciples of old, but by Joseph Smith, the
modern Prophet, who when given the vis-
ion of the judgments that were to come, in
the last days, were shown to him, asked the
Lord to close the vision, for it was more
than human nature could bear. 
	Every day seemingly increases the sum
of accidents by sea and by land, and without
the wars that are raging in foreign lands,
and the loss of life and property through
all these agencies, and added to this the ter-
rible diseases that come in many instances
because of the devastation by war and
bloodshed grow more and more horrifying,
and sometimes heartrending even to read. 
What must it be to be in the midst of scenes
so revolting to the human soul. 
	Yet knowledge increases and science
ploughs its way along all the old ruts giv-
ing newer methods of dealing with every-
thing that pertains to life and health, and
yet people are not happier though every
atom is explained with the minutest ac-
curateness, either by one ’ology or another,
but wisdom said to be the twin sister of know-
ledge has not kept pace with science and phil-
osophy or the world would not be left in such
darkness as it is with its great learning. 
The Bible says, seek wisdom and under-
standing, but wisdom comes from above and
is not learned from books and to obtain it one
needs to be clothed with humility and
meekness, and then the Holy Spirit may
enlighten one’s mind to a degree surpassing
the doctrines and precepts of even college-
bred men.

[Column 2]
	When the Prophet Joseph was only a
boy and did not know even how to ap-
proach the Lord he read in the Bible, “Ask
and ye shall receive” and he accepted it
literally and those who have read his his-
tory know the result of his faith and hum-
ility.
	This is the implicit faith needed in the
present day, to be able to endure that which
is transpiring round about, and that which
is within the borders of Zion, by living near
to the Lord and keeping in his confidence,
and in such accord with the whisperings of
His Spirit that one may get wisdom from
the fount of all intelligence.
	Job says in chapter 28, beginning with
verse 12; “But where shall wisdom be
found? And where is the place of under-
standing?” The verses following this text
explain the value of wisdom placing it far
above jewels and fine gold and continues;
“Whence then cometh wisdom? And
where is the place of understanding?” The
last verse gives the subject in plain terms.
“Behold the fear of the Lord that is wisdom
and to depart from evil understanding.”
Therefore if one lives a life of purity and
keeps aloof from all that would contami-
nate, the Lord will give wisdom and under-
standing according to his need, and even
if he be poor and lowly and without great
knowledge he may be filled with the light
of truth that will keep him from the dan-
gers and besetments that surround men and
women of the present time for as know-
ledge and learning increases, more and more
the evil one takes advantage to lead away
the unwise and unwary from the path of
rectitude and uprightness. Paul says, 1.
Cor. 17., “But to preach the Gospel, not
with wisdom of words, lest the cross of
Christ should be made of none effect.” In
verse 24 after comparing the Jews and the
Greeks he says; “But unto them which are
called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the
power of God and the wisdom of God.”
	Judging from the words of the Bible and
of the Prophet Joseph in this dispensation,
one can plainly see that if men trust in
their own great knowledge and ability and
have not the fear of God and the love of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ continually before
them, there is danger, but ever and always
prayer and humility are greater safeguards
than wealth or worldly knowledge. 
	The warning given in scripture applies to
us now “Let him that thinketh he standeth,
take heed lest he fall.
	And above all in times when there is
great opposition to truth and evil influences
abound, it certainly needs something more
than knowledge such as the world affords
to be able to cope with the powers of dark-
ness that at this time assail the Saints of
God. Paul said on one occasion; “Watch
ye stand fast in the faith quit you like men
be strong.”


