ELIAS:
		AN EPIC OF THE AGES.
	Such is the title of Bishop Orson F.
Whitney’s latest and most wonderful poem.
	When, about two years ago, a few friends
—fifty, perhaps, in number—were invited
to the home of Col. N. W. Clayton to
listen to the reading of a new poem by
Bishop Whitney, they little dreamed of the
great and unusual pleasure awaiting them,
this pleasure turned to wonder and deeper
admiration as they began to realize the
meaning of this invitation,—that Bishop
Whitney would himself unfold to them a
work, the fruit of many months’ labor, em-
bodying his deepest thought and inspira-
tion, displaying in its fullest his poetic
genius and spiritual nature.
	This first reading lasted several evenings,
sometimes interspersed with music appro-
priate to the theme dwelt upon, and as
the friends listened, their wonder and ad-
miration grew.
	It was the story of the world in its differ-
ent ages and phases as the Latter-day
Saints know it, told in rhythmic verse.
	The rich deep voice and impressive man-
ner of the author as he read to his friends
verse after verse of his poem, unfolding to
them the thoughts of his mind, was like
the leaves of a flower unfolding to the sun,
disclosing the heart therein.
	The readings became one of the social
events of that winter, and so much interest
in the work was awakened, that later in
the winter Bishop Whitney’s friends, by
the courtesy of President Joseph F. Smith,
arranged for a second series of readings to
take place in the beautiful parlors of the
Bee Hive House.
	The audience this time was much larger
and included many of the most prominent
men and women of the church and state.
The readings were quite dramatic in char-
acter, while the music was most appropri-
ate and beautiful.
	Following these readings was a desire by
the author’s friends to possess a copy of the
poem themselves, and steps were immedi-
ately taken to have it presented to the
public in fitting form, the result being that
a most beautiful edition de luxe, consisting
of a limited number of copies, was issued
for subscribers, while a very handsome but
cheaper edition is now ready for the public
	A review of the work in detail is scarce-
ly necessary. It is a religious epic in
twelve cantos, and is the only work of the
kind ever published by a Utah writer. The
poem throughout is graceful in style, pro-
phetic in theme, and in the thought, sub-
lime. It realizes the dream of the anthor,
for “assuredly that harp is now thine own.”
Now that tire poem in beautiful illustrated
volumes is launched on the public sea, may
it have a successful voyage and bring the
author rich returns for his work.
