A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY.

	On Monday March 27, 1905, a few of
the relatives and friends of Mrs. Martha G. 
Wells assembled by invitation at her home 
in this city. The parlors were very prettily
decorated and the guests all seemed deligh-
ted to honor one so universally admired and
so highly esteemed as "dear Aunt Martha"
as she is affectionately called by the "dear
five hundred friends."
	Quite a number of tokens of love and 
affection were presented to her by the
guests and others who were not present.
The party was not formal in any sense,
there were no speeches but many hearty 
congratulations, and sincere good wishes
were expressed for the honored lady, and
social conversation was freely indulged in 
by the goodly company.
	The five o'clock tea was handsomely
served on small tables and at each plate a 
card, with name of guest and flower; jon-
quil,yellow being the color of flower, ribbon
etc. The menu was of the choicest variety
and served in the daintiest style, with cut
glass, silver, and the finest china, but the 
most delightful part of all was the social
feeling that seemed to permeate the gather-
ing. A blessing was asked upon the food
when all was ready by Sister Elizabeth J. 
Stevenson. During the afternoon Miss
Mary Wells sang very sweetly one or two
favorite songs accompanied on the piano by
Miss Alice Wells, her cousin, little Geneva
Wells also sang very sweetly; all grand-
daughters of the hostess.
	The success of the party was in a great
measure due to the ingenious tact of the
young women, who so carefully arranged
every detail that could add to the enjoy-
ment of the hostess and her friends, Mrs.
Edna Wells Sloan and Mrs. Briant H.
Wells.


It was a day to be remembered by those
present particularly because of the renew-
ing of old-time acquaintances, who meet so
seldom socially nowadays on the great high-
way of life. The writer extends sincerest
congratulations to Mrs. Wells and may her
days be lengthened out.and all her ways be
smooth and peaceful as the years roll on-
ward.


