		UINTAH STAKE.
	Morning session. Minutes of a Relief
Society conference of Uintah Stake of Zion-
held at Vernal September 17, 1904. Presi,
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding. 
	Opening exercises as usual. Three stake
and seven ward officers present, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp of the General Board also present
	President Sarah M. Colton was sorry
there were so few present, but it was a busy
time. Said we should call in the young
mothers in the Mother’s Work and help
them raise their families, for they are the
ones that will have to carry on this work. 
	Sister Hannah Odekirk reported Vernal
ward. Sister Mary Jane Hardie reported
Glines ward. 
	Nancy A. Colton felt glad to be able to
meet with the sisters, thought we could ar-
range our home duties so we could come to
conference; if we would come we would be
blessed of the Lord and our work would be
easy. Spoke of the Savior, thought we
should follow His example. 
	Sister Addie Longhurst reported Naples
ward. Sister Edna Cole reported Moun-
tain Dell ward.

[Column 2]
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp, one of the General
Board from Salt Lake City, felt well to meet
with the sisters and to hear the reports,
knew if we would trust in the Lord He
would bless us. Spoke of the mission that
we are placed upon the earth to fulfill, we
should be patient with our children, for the
Lord was patient with us, if we would at-
tend to our duties the Lord would bless us;
urged each and every one to be prayerful;
we were blessed above all people on earth,
and we should follow the example of
the Savior; asked the Lord to bless all. 
	Sister Trimm made a few remarks. 
Brother Edward Longhurst felt well in
meeting with the sisters; said this was the
first time he had been able to speak since
he had regained his speech. We should
live as the missionaries do in the world; re-
lated some of his experience as a mission-
ary; spoke of what a grand work the Re-
lief Society had to do; bore a faithful testi-
mony. 
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks. Conference adjourned
until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session. President Sarah M. 
Colton said we had met to continue our
conference; we should not leave work un-
done; told the sisters their duties in the
Relief Society, and to observe the Sabbath
day, we should not make excuses for not
doing our duty that is placed upon us;
bore a strong testimony. 
	The names of the general and local offi-
cers were sustained. Some instructions
from the General Board were then read. 
	Sister America Orser reported Jensen
ward. Sister Rosetta Pearce reported
Maeser ward.
	Sister Ellen Karren was pleased to meet
with the sisters, it was the first time she
had met with them since her husband’s
death. She felt lonely and had been away
from home, and while gone did not have
the privilege of going to meeting, for there
was none where she was; said one does
not know the difference until they are
placed in such circumstances; urged the
sisters to be careful about speaking lightly
of the authority placed over them; we should
store our minds with useful knowledge so
that when we go to visit the sick the
Lord will bless us and also them. 
	Sister Maud Partridge spoke of the evils
that would lead to apostacy.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp felt like endorsing
what she had heard; told of the blessings
we might receive in the Relief Society;
spoke of the time that the Prophet organ-
ized it and of the grand work that was
placed upon woman; spoke of the power
there was in prayer and of teaching the
young, virtue and purity and of what a good
name was worth, and for all to respect old
age; asked the blessings of the Lord upon
the assembly
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
remarks and spoke of Dr. Shipp’s nurse
class which she had been teaching, that it
would be a blessing to us all, and of the
sisters gathering grain and taking care
of it. 
	Appointed next conference to be held at
Maeser ward, the date to be announced
later. Singing. Benediction by Sister
Flora Collett.
