IN MEMORIAM. 
PHEBE CAMPBELL ATKINSON. 
Sketch and resolutions of respect to the mem-
ory of Sister Phebe Campbell Atkinson, who de-
parted this life at Bountiful October 21, 190 4
Sister Atkinson was in her 96th year, and her 
living descendants number 450 souls. She had 15
children, 77 grand-children. 329 great-grandchil-
dren, and 39 great-great-grandchildren. Sister 
Atkinson was born at New Brunswick, Canada, 
October 9, 1809. Her marriage to Bro. Atkinson 
occurred in 1834. She emigrated to Utah in 1853, 
settling in Bountiful, Has been a faithful mem-
ber of the Church from that time till her death. 
Sister Atkinson was a member and officer of the 
Relief Society from the time it was organized in 
Bountiful, and at the time the ward was divided 
in 1877, Sister Atkinson was appointed president 
of the South Bountiful Relief Society January 26, 
1879. In that capacity she worked faithfully, al-
ways striving to do her duty, and at the end of 15
years resigned on account of ill health, having 
gained the love and respect of all who were as-
sociated with her. She was a woman of great 
faith and integrity to the Gospel; her testimony 
was always bright. She was not ashamed to de-
fend the principles of her religion, and was true 
to every principle of the Gospel, including that of 
celestial marriage. She died as she had lived, 
firm in the faith, and with a sure hope of a glori-
ous resurrection. 
RESOLUTIONS.
Therefore be it resolved, that we, the officers of 
the Relief Society, do sincerely sympathize with 
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one who 
was in every respect worthy of our love and es-
teem. 
Resolved, that in her death we recognize the loss 
of a true Saint and a faithful worker; but she 
has fought the good fight and kept the faith, and 
there is a crown of righteousness awaiting her in
the kingdom of God. 
Resolved, that these resolutions be placed upon 
the records of the South Bountiful Relief Society 
and that they be published in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and a copy be given to the bereaved
family.

MARY A. PAGE, President. 
SARAH P. MOSS, Secretary.


