THE DOME BERLIN.

	On Feb. 27, 1905, in Berlin, the grand
building known as the “Dome,” was dedi-
cated, in the presence of the Kaiser, Kaizer-
ine, members of the royal household, a rep-
resentative from each country, a minister
from each Christian denomination except
one, and some invited guests. Immedi-
ately on the entrance of the Kaizer into the
building, all the church bells of Berlin,
Charlottenburg and other suburbs rang
their clanging sound, filling the air for some
minutes. About an hour afterwards, when
the dedication was over, the ringing was
resumed, this time louder as with rejoicing.
	Two social functions, given by the Em-
peror, in the White Hall of the Imperial
Palace, followed. The first on the evening
of the same day, was a dinner in honor of
the representatives and clergy. The other
was a military ball.
	On Wednesday, March 1, the Dome was
thrown open to the general public for four
days, from 11 a. m. until 2 p. m., after
which it was first decided it would be closed
indefinitely, it being said it would require
five years in which to finish it. Since then
it has been decided it shall remain open.
The base of the outside walls is of granite;
this is surmounted by a dark gray, smooth
stone, it is said a manufactured article. The
edifice presents a fine appearance, being
richly ornamented on turrets and dome, by
crosses of gold and other golden and stone
decorations.
	The papers criticize the building rather
severely, say its design is from all styles of
architecture, consequently has none, and is
of a dead color. Be that as it may, there
it stands in the Schloss Platz (castle place),
on the banks of the Spree, an imposing
monument to the Hohenzolleran dynasty.
The interior is divided into three churches
or chapels. The first one entered is to be
used for marriage, the clasped hands on the
ceiling designates this cerem ny. The up-
per walls and ceiling are beautifully painted,
the colors suitable no doubt to the purpose
for which the room was designed. The
altar unadorned, seems colorless, the gray
brown of the outer walls looking dingy on
the inside, but the final embellishments will
no doubt harmonize and express the design
of the artist.
	The center part is the main church and
will seat in the neighborhood of four hun-
dred people. The altar is unfinished, but
the three windows of stained glass above it,
situated in the circle of the dome, are ex-
quisitely colored. The center one is that
of the crucifixion, but the beautiful tints
mercifully rob it of the agony usually de-
picted on the face of the Redeemer. The
window on either side shows a delicate
blending of the richest colors, especially the
purple of the robe worn by Christ; the
gallery, facing the altar, is for the use of
the Kaizer and family, and is on a line with
the windows before described. Some royal
insignia denotes who are its occupants.
	Immediately over the door leading into
the crypt room is the organ, also on a line
with the gallery and windows and rising


another story above them, making a beauti 
ful appearance.
	Then comes the burial chapel. This is 
of spacious dimensions, a stone sarcopha-
gus in the center denotes where the casket
is to rest while the funeral rites are being
solemnized. A wide, elegant stairway leads
down to the crypts where it is said the finest
work of the building is to be seen. The
crypt is built, perhaps on the ground level,
the building being high enough above it to
admit of this. Also this may be necessary,
as the back is built on the bank of the river
Spree.
	This chapel is very large and in a most
unfinished condition. The Dome is the
outgrowth of a desire of the Hohenzollerans
for generations to erect a suitable place for
the royal dead. It is thus far realized. What
Westminster Abbey is to England the Dome
will be to Germany. It is said the Kaizer
himself is to be its first occupant. When
properly finished with inside decorations and
hangings, it will be magnificent.
	Thousands of people weie admitted each
day that it was open. At times the line ex-
tended from the entrance around and
down the whole length of one side, four
abreast. Many policemen kept order, and
divided the line, so that about forty were
admitted at once. It happened that the line
was drawn right in front of the Utah party,
who thus lead the contingent, then going
through.
	Of course compared with Westminster
Abbey, the building is modern, but this
fault will be corrected in time when perhaps
the Abbey is no more. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Berlin, March, 1905.


