WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF SISTER
ELLEN SEMMIONS HARRISON.
	Ellen S. Harrison was the daughter of
George and Charity Walles, and was born
the 5th day of March, 1859, at Keymore,
near Brighton, Sussex, England. Sister
Harrison was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
year 1869, by her father, who was at that
time President of the Sussex branch of the
Church. 
	Sister Harrison's mother died when Ellen
was between the ages of 13 and 14 years.
In the year 1875, she in connection with
her sister, Charity, emigrated to America
and settled in Salt Lake City, Utah, where
she went to live with Sister Joshua K.
Midgley, and there remained until the 8th
day of July, 1880, when she married Edwin
D.Harrison. In 1881 she in connection
with her husband left Salt Lake City, and
took up their residence in the city of Logan,
Cache County, Utah, where she immedi-
ately identified herself with the Relief So-
ciety of the Third Ward, of said city.
Shortly after going to Logan her husband
was called to fill a mission to Great Britain,
thus leaving Sister Harrison to provide and
care for herself and seven children, which
she nobly did for over two years.
	In June, 1898, she and her husband with
their children moved to the Pocatello ward,
where she at once began an active work in
Relief Society. On the 6th day of July, 
1899, she was called and set apart to be
Second Counselor to Sister Regina Pond,
President of the Pocatello Ward Relief So-
ciety, which position she held until May,
1900. On the last named date Brother L.
John Nuttall re-organized the society and
Sister Harrison was set apart to be its
President, which position she nobly filled
until September 22nd, 1903, when she was
honorably released to become the Second
Counselor to the Stake President of the 
same organization, which position she was
honorably filling at the time of her death,
which occurred on the 27th day of January,
of this year (1905).
	Sister Harrison is the mother of nine
children, eight of whom are now living.
Three sons and five daughters. These
children, in connection with an affectionate
husband, are left to mourn her demise.
She was a loving wife, a devoted mother
and was beloved by all who knew her, and
has gone to receive her glorious reward.

