CEDAR CITY ITEMS.
Editor Exponent:
	The sixty-third anniversary of the organ-
ization of Relief Society was celebrated
here in the usual manner with meeting at
2 o’clock at which a well rendered program
was presented and appreciated by all pres-
ent. In the evening a dance for old and
young was enjoyed to its fullest extent and
a lunch was served in the course of the
evening.
	On February 4th, at the business meet-
ing, a reorganization of the Presidency of
our Relief Society was made. The retiring
President and Counselors, Sisters Thorley,
Armstrong and Jones, were desirous of be-
ing released, they having fillled the position
for eight years, and faithfully performed all
duties devolving upon them. Also the Sec-
retary, Sister Violet Urie, having been ap-
pointed to preside over the Primary Associ-
ation. Accordingly the following sisters
were chosen:—Relief Society Sister Amy
Webster Leigh as President, with Sisters
M. A. Heyborne and Maria Bullock, coun-
selors; Sister Kate Ryan, Secretary, Sister
M. A. Parry being retained as Treasurer.
The retiring Presidency have worked faith-
fully, both for the needy and for the bene-
fit of the Society.
	Financially the organization is in good
condition. The storing of grain for time of
need is one of the main features that the
Sisters feel interested in. We have up-
wards of 1000 bushels of wheat on hand at
the present time and as the people have
realized the benefit of it in the past a great-
er interest should be manifested in this un-
dertaking in time of plenty. For the past
few years there has been a scarcity in the
yield to the farmers on account of drouth
and last year on account of floods, but
when we reap a more bounteous harvest it
is hoped that we remember the time of
need and help to increase our storage.
	We have a large up-to date granary in
the course of construction, anticipating its
completion by next harvest.


The Mothers’ Work commenced some
time ago is greatly appreciated and it is
quite encouraging to note the increase in
attendance at the meetings.
	On the 22nd of February the teachers of
the Society gave a very pleasant Social to
the retiring Presidency at the home of Sis-
ter Thorley, presenting these Sisters with
tokens of esteem, purchased by donations
given by the teachers. Our teachers are a
body of energetic workers and as a rule ful-
fill their duties in a very creditable man-
ner.
	It has been a considerable length of time
since any report of our Society has been
sent for publication so that I take the pres-
ent opportunity of doing so in connection
with the report of celebration of annual an-
niversary.
			J. P. MACKELPRANG,
						Cor. Sec’y.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ference convened at Panguitch, September
15, 1904, at 10 a. m. Commenced in the
usual manner. Three wards were reported. 
Sister Priscilla Smith of Salt Lake City
gave some very good instructions to the
sisters. Brother Giles gave an instru-
mental selection. Sister Clawson of Salt
Lake City spoke very good, giving good
instructions. 
	Stake President David Cameron spoke a
short time and President Elizabeth De Long,
and Counselor Hannah A. Crosby conference
was then adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by Patriarch Joseph L. Heywood.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., com-
menced in the usual manner. Speakers in
the afternoon being Sister Margaret H. 
Clark, Sister Mary Houston, Bishop James
B. Heywood and Sister Smith. Congrega-
tion sang a song, followed by the following
speakers: Sister Clara L. Clawson, Sister
Hannah I. Henrie, Sister Priscilla Smith,
Brother James Houston and Prest. Eliza-
beth De Long. Conference was then ad-
journed. Benediction by Elder John S.
Crosby.
	ELIZABETH DE LONG, President.

