IN MEMORIAM.

	In memory of Sister Kirsten Forgerson Anderson
who departed this life, March 18th, 1905, at her
home in Koosharem. Sevier Co., Utah.
	She was born in Norway, May 5th, 1828. She
became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in the early 60’s, and emi-
grated in 1877, arriving in Ephraim Sanpete Co ,
Utah, July 24th of the same year.
	The following August she removed to Koos-
harem, then in Piute Co , with her husband, An-
drew Anderson, two sons and two daughters, as
follows. Mrs, Josephine Nielson, of Richfield,
Sevier Co., Utah, Mrs. Malvina Johnson, of
Deweyville, Box Elder Co., Utah, Theodore An-
derson, Koosharem, Sevier Co., Utah, and Parley
Anderson, who is Bishop of the same place.
	On the 1st of August 1878, a Relief Society of
the Koosharem ward was organized with Margaret
Anderson as president, Eliza Rust 1st counselor,
Sabra J. Hatch. 2nd counselor. Sister Kirsten was
sustained as teacher, an office which she faithrully
filled for two years, when our ward was divided,
taking Sister Rust from us.
Sister Kirsten was then sustained as first coun-


selor, which position she held up to the time of her
death.
From August 1880 till March 1905, this chain has 
never been broken, till God in His infinite wisdom 
saw fit to take one of its brightest links home, 
where she will continue her labors of usefulness 
and love. 
For nearly a quarter of a century she has served 
us faithfully and well. She was a kind and de-
voted wife and mother, devoted to her family, her 
friends and her God. And as much as we regret 
the separation, we rejoice in the thought of the 
glorious reception she will meet in the mansions 
of our Father. And we know that the closing of 
her life here, is the beginning of another which 
shall be far more glorious and eternal. 
RESOLUTIONS. 
Whereas our esteemed sister has been called to 
her heavenly home. we, her sisters, who know of 
her faithful life, desire to acknowledge her labors 
and ministrations of kindness love and assistance 
as a counselor of our Relief Society, and also as a 
friend and neighbor in the best sense of the term. 
Therefore be it 
Resolved, that we do testify that humility, char-
ity and faith were leading traits of her in character,
and that her devotion to her family, her friends 
and her God is an example which we should all 
strive to emulate. 
Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in 
our Relief Society record and also published in the
Woman’s Exponent.
Margaret Anderson, Pres. Koosharem Ward; 
Sabra J. Hatch, Counselor; Sarah Crawford, 
Secretary.


