MARCH SEVENTEEN.
	The seventeenth of March is regarded now
among the Latter-day Saints as Relief So-
ciety day, being universally celebrated by
that organization. As the people of course
know this day, March seventeenth, is the an-
niversary of the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
	There were on that day, sixty-three years
ago, but eighteen members and the oldest
woman present—Elizabeth Ann Whitney—
was just forty-one years old, while Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, our present president
was only nineteen. This fact will proba-
bly be a new idea to some of our women,
who think they have to be old ladies before
it is time to join the Relief Society. The
first organization, although young women
and many of them unmarried, did a great
work among the people in Nauvoo, both
charity and temple work, and the Relief
Society increased in numbers very rapidly;
in good works of course the progress was
marked, as the name and the object of the
Society are one and the same. The women
of Zion are greatly blessed in having this
organization, for it has been, and is of un-
told benefit to them in many, many ways,
intellectually, spiritually and socially as
well as helping those who need.
	The seventeenth of March is the
social occasion for the Relief Society.
How interesting it would be, if one had
the power, on that day to look at
all the different branches and see how
widely and delightfully the day was
being spent. Not only in Zion but in
the different cities in Europe, the Sand-
wich Islands, New Zealand, Australia,
Mexico, Canada, the Eastern, Southern and
Western States, and everywhere in the
world where the Latter-day Saints have a
branch of the Church there the Relief So-
ciety is keeping this day. Perhaps it is
an old time party, or a dramatic entertain-
ment, or a banquet, or a concert it mat-
ters not, so the day is remembered and a
good time prevails.
	The Relief Society on the seventeenth,
of March, 1842, numbered eighteen, on
the seventeenth of March, 1905, it
numbers thirty-three thousand. Success
to the Relief Society and may it continue
to increase in numbers and good works, and
may each seventeenth of March be a glori-
ous day for the women of Zion.
						A. W. C.


