	E. R. SHIPP.


[column 1]
	BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH. 
	RELIEF CRAM ATWOOD. 
	Biographical sketch of the life of Relief
Cram Atwood daughter of Josiah Cram and 
Deidamia Dutton Cram, born Jan. 17, 1820, 
Stodard, New Hampshire.
	My parents were honest praying people 
belonging to the Baptist Church and lived 
according to the best light they had received. 
They had twelve children (I was the tenth)
six sons and six daughters and they taught 
them to love and fear the Lord, and keep 
His commandments. From my earliest re-
membrance I had the fear of the Lord be-
fore me, the Bible was my favorite reader. 
When young I joined the Presbyterian 
church, but soon became dissatisfied with 
my baptism and was baptized by immersion. 
Soon after the Second Advent people came 
preaching the second coming of Chr st was
near, and when the Latter-day Saints came 
I was fully prepared to receive it. I shall 
never forget the sensation I felt the first 
sermon I heard, it thrilled through me like 
electricity. My mind was enlightened and 
I received the word joyfully. I was bap-
tized on the 10th of January, 1843. 
At my confirmation I received a testi-
mony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of 
God. I rejoiced greatly that a communica-
tion was again opened between heaven and 
earth. Every princip e that was revealed I 
believed. I saw everything so plain and was 
so thoroughly convinced of its truth, that 
I prayed the Lord to take me away should 
anything be revealed to hard for me to un-
derstand, rather than reject truth. 
When the Word of Wisdom came, I was 
already in the practice of it; had kept it for 
many years, and have ever since. When I 
found the Church was organized after the 
ancient pattern it reminded me of a dream
I had when a very little child. It made a 
lasting impression on my mind. I dreamed 
the Lord came to me and took me in His 
arms and showed me a building, He was 
about to establish. It came to my mind 
with great force, as the Church of Christ is 
compared to a building. 
I was born in Jan. 1820, and Joseph
Smith had his first vision early the next
spring. My father and mother and brother 
and four sisters soon followed me into the 
waters of baptism. 
In the fall of 1845 I left my home, friends 
and native land and came to Nauvoo with 
my eldest sister and family with four other 
families from the Peterboro Branch in New 
Hampshire; when we reached there the 
Saints were all in confusion getting ready 
to leave for the wilderness, and the people 
were passing through great trials and many 
of the Saints apostatized and our enemies 
were threatening to drive us out, and my 
sister and family with three others who 
came with me from the same Branch turn-
ed and went back from whence they came. 
My sister and family tried to persuade me 
to go back with them but could not prevail 
upon me to go. To think of going forward 
into the wilderness looked dark but to go 
back looked darker, The spirit of prophecy 
came upon me, and I told my brother-in 
[column 2]
law in the name of the Lord, if he went back 
before one year passed by he would mourn 
and lament. He went and when about half 
way back he was taken sick,—too sick to 
proceed on his journey and one year elap-
sed before he was able to reach home, and 
everytime I heard from him he was lament-
ing that he ever left Nauvoo to go home; he 
died in about two years. No principle of 
the Gospel has ever tried me in the least. 
For I knew that I had the right spirit when 
I first heard the truth and all I heard look-
ed pure and Godlike. I am thankful that 
I never raised my voice against any of the 
principles taught by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	After my sister went back East I made 
my home with her husband’s brother and 
family that remained; in the following win-
ter I received my endowments in the Nau-
voo Temple. In the spring I sold what 
things I could spare and bought three cows; 
one of them I sold and bought what seem-
ed most needful for the journey. One 
cow I had yoked in a team, and the other 
for milk, and with the family proceeded on 
my journey into the wilderness. 
In the summer of 1846, we reached Win-
ter Quarters on the Missouri river and re-
mained there until the return of the Pio-
neers from Salt Lake valley. In Winter 
Quarters I became acquainted with the fam-
ilies of Brigham and Joseph Young, I 
found employment in the family of Joseph 
Young as seamstress. While there I was 
taken very sick with pleurisy and winter 
fever. President Young’s family were near 
by and hearing I was sick he sent for me 
and I was taken in an arm chair to his 
house, and tenderly cared for until I recov-
ered and was able to resume my work. Dur-
ing the winter I made the acquaintance of 
Millen Atwood, who was in the employ of 
President Young. He was called upon to 
go with the Pioneers to the valley and 
after his return we were married by Presi-
dent Brigham Young for time and all eter-
nity, in fulfillment of a dream that I had 
some time previously. 
In the spring of 1848 we set out in the 
company of Brigham Young and family. 
After a journey of four months we arrived 
in the valley of Great Salt Lake being the 
19th day of Sept. 1848. We found it a wild 
and desolate region with scarcely a tree or 
shrub except sage brush. My husband went 
to work and with his own hands made the 
adobies and being a mason by trade laid up
two small rooms. By some means he got 
lumber to cover the roof and plastered for 
a neighbor by candlelight and got six brok- 
en lights of glass for a window. Our floor 
was fastened down with wooden pegs in-
stead of nails. We moved in on the 25th 
of Dec. By this time the snow had fallen 
to the depth of a foot or more and the 
hungry wolves came down into the valley 
for food. One night they came and took a 
chicken from the back of the wagon where 
they were sitting. We slept in our wagon 
nights and staid in the house of a friend 
days, who had been more fortunate in get-
ting his house finished sooner, until we 
could finish our own. Our flour was nearly 
all gone; my husband worked and got a


[Column 1]

li[-]tle musty corn that did not ripen which 
served to help out our flour. In the spring 
we ga[-]thered buck wheat for greens to help 
us to subsist
	In the winter of 1849-50 my husband 
went with a company to Provo against the 
Indians who were making a raid on our 
cattle, he [-]eturned after a skirmish of three 
weeks with a load of squaws and children 
which were distributed among our people 
to care for. We kept one little boy five or 
six years old, until an Indian came and 
claimed him as his brother, and we were 
counseled to let him go, and some others 
were called for also. 
In the spring we planted a garden and I 
carried water from City Creek to water it, 
while my husband was tending a five acre 
lot which he had plowed and planted. The 
ground was as dry as an ash heap to the 
depth of a foot or more. He came home 
one evening tired and hungry, and some-
what dis[-]ouraged After partaking of our 
scanty meal we knelt by our bedside to offer 
up our evening prayer. After a few words
he broke out in an unknown tongue. I was 
electrified and was given the interpretation. 
It was a reproof for our lack of faith and to 
encourage us to renewed diligence by a pro-
mise that if we would put our trust in Him 
our land should yield bountifully, and our 
table hould be loaded with the best fruits 
of the earth. It did inspire us with new 
courage, and we saw that promise verified 
to the letter. I [-]et out fruit trees and in 
due time we had the choicest fruit in abund-
ance and our garden and field brought forth
bountifully
	In 1852 my husband was sent on a mis-
sion to England. I was left with one little 
girl and myself to care for. My first little 
girl having died a few months previous from 
the effects of a burn, and I came very near 
going out with her. After my husband got 
his "fit out" he had 80 cts. left which he 
gave me. 
	I took a few little children into my house 
to teach in order to help me to live. After 
a time the grasshoppers came in great 
abundance and destroyed the crops, so that 
breadstuff was very scarce I had a little 
patch of wheat on my city lot and the 
grasshoppers came and lit down on my 
wheat. I knew that it would soon be de-
voured unless something was done. The 
thought came to me to take my school
children and let them join hands and walk 
through the wheat. They did so and the 
grasshoppers arose enmasse went up in the 
air in another direction and disappeared 
over the mountains and never returned. 
My wheat [-]rew and ripened so I had some 
twelve bushels to help myself with and my 
neighbors 
When my husband returned from his 
mission to England he brought a sister with 
him whom he afterwards married. I had 
made it a subject of prayer that if he thought 
proper to take another wife I might be
reconciled, and do the things that were 
right by her. I dreamed that he had an-
other wife and that I was perfectly willing 
to divide what I had and that was but very 
little. My husband's wife Esther Young 
died in 1858, we had always lived together 
like sisters and were very happy. 
	My younge[-]t sister came to the valley 
and married Brother Jesse Haven accept-
ing the order of plural marriage and always 
lived comfortable and happy. 
	In those days we were obliged to make 
our own clothing principally or go without. 
I took wool on shares prepared it and made 
[Column 2]
it into yarn, cleaned it and colored it, got 
it ready for the loom had it woven, and 
made it into dresses, three different pieces 
at different times, also several pieces for 
men's wear; made the yarn and knit our 
own stockings, and socks, we also made 
our own soap and candles. 
When the Sabbath School was organized 
I had a class for many years, I was present 
at the organization of the Relief Society in 
the 13th ward, Salt Lake City, became a 
member; shortly afterwards was made a 
teacher and had that position until 1874
when I was made treasurer, and acted in 
that office until the year 1860 when my 
husband died and I soon left the Ward 
where we had lived so many years. In the 
year 1873 I went back to visit my friends 
in the home of my childhood, and in other 
places in New Hampshire, Vermont, and 
Massachusetts. I found a great change in 
twenty-eight years of absence my father and 
mother were both dead, one sister and two 
brothers dead, three brothers and two sist-
ers living. They were very glad to see 
me, and treated me with the utmost kind-
ness and so did my nephews and nieces. 
They listened to all I had to say about my 
religion. Before I left home Sister Zina 
Young and the officers of the Relief Society 
laid their hands upon my head and blessed 
me. Sister Zina Young told me that I 
should be filled with the Holy Spirit and 
my words should be convinc[-]ng. and I 
would allay a great deal of prejudice; that 
was all fulfilled to the very letter. On one
occasion I had been talking on some of the 
principles we believe in and was so filled 
with the good Spirit that when I took up 
the Book of Mormon to read I could see to 
read without glasses perfectly as well as 
ever I could. I had been obliged to use 
glasses for three or four years. I was told 
repeatedly that they believed and that some 
day they should come out to Utah but they 
never have as yet. It was like beholding 
their natural face in the glass; and when I 
left to come home, the Spirit and influence 
I had came with me, and had no lasting im-
pression. I still hope it will be like casti[-]g
bread upon the waters after many days I 
shall find it; since my visit I have been 
writing and sending them letters, tracts and 
sermons and church works and they are 
there still, but I cannot give them up, I 
believe they are of the House of Israel. 
	I had a dream many years ago, that a 
white sheet was held up representing my 
father's house, saying they were a righteous 
branch of the house of Israel. I know this 
work in which we are engaged is true, I 
have seen the signs following the believer, 
I have received testimony after testimony; 
I know it as well as I know the sun rises 
and sets, and the greatest desire of my 
heart is that myself, my children and grand-
children may all keep the commandments 
of God and prove faithful to the end. 
	My husband who had been Bishop of the 
13th Ward several years died December 17, 
1890 and it was after his death we moved 
from that ward to our present home. 
	Our children were Relief Eleanor born 
January 25, 1849, and died May 11, 1852.
Abbie Angenette born September 30, 1850, 
married John Sermon; Rosalia C. born 
October 18, 1858, married Lewis A. Kelch. 
Millen M born December 6, 1863, mar-
ried Mary Bird and is now and has been 
for some years, Bishop of Sugar House 
Ward, Salt Lake county. I have quite a 
large number of grand children.
	I have done work for my dead kindred,

[Column 3]

in Logan, and Salt Lake City Temples, in a 
line of ancestry for six or seven generations, 
and enjoyed it so much that it was among 
the happiest days of my life. I am now in 
my eighty-sixth year well in health and 
comfortable in circumstances and still able 
to enjoy my meetings with the Saints. 
