A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	A very pleasant party of ladies assembled
by invitation, March 7th, at the new resi-
dence of Sister Augusta W. Grant in honor
of Sister Rachel R. Grant, (the mother of
Apostle Heber J. Grant, now presiding
over the European Mission.) It would
not be possible to give the names of all the
sisters present on this happy occasion, as
there were probably eighty of them. The
parlors and hall were artistically arranged
and decorated, many beautiful flowers and
plants in bloom having been sent in as
gifts. Among others were the seven dozen
white carnations from the First Presidency
of the Church, who could not attend in
person.
	The gift was not only a token of the es-
teem and respect of these brethren for this
sister in the Church, but the white bloss-
oms were symbolical of her pure life, and
their fragrance was typical of her good
deeds, that have wafted sweetness into many
hearts and homes in Zion.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth read for
the entertainment of the company a bio-
graphical sketch of the late President Jedi-
diah M. Grant, husband of the lady whose
birthday was being celebrated; the reading
was much enjoyed and brought to mind
many incidents connected with past history
in which some of those present had partici-
pated.
	Interesting remarks were made compli-
mentary and congratulatory to Sister Grant
by Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isa-


bella Horne and Susan Grant—after which
some vocal music by the young ladies of
the household, Mrs. George J. Cannon
sang several sacred songs assisted by her sis-
ters Misses Florence,Edith, Anna, and Mary
Grant, and piano accompaniment. Sister E.
B. Wells offered her congratulations
and alluded to her intimate acquaintance
with brother Grant and family in the exo-
dus from Nauvoo, and in Winter Quarters
where they were neighbors; she also spoke
of being one of the old Tabernacle choir
selected to sing at his funeral and in the
cemetery at his burial.
	Sister Grant responded very sweetly to
the congratulations and honors conferred up-
on her, spoke briefly of her early life in the
Church and the troublous times in Nauvoo,
and how some of her relatives insisted on
her leaving the Church, but rejoiced that
she had remained faithful and that she had
received so many blessings, and although
she had not been able to hear for many
years, yet she had been very happy.
	The gathering of old friends and some
young people was happily intermingled.
Sweet young girls served dainty and appe-
tizing refreshments and altogether the char-
acter of the party was sort of sacred and
uplifting.
	Sister Grant is certainly beautiful in her-
self, her features remain placid and serene
and her intellect bright, she is well pre-
served in every respect and her friends join
in wishing her many happy returns of the
day in the enjoyment of peace love and
the good fellowship of the Saints.


