			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine stake was held at Ameri-
can Fork Jan. 20, 1905, President Rebecca


[Column 1]
Standring presiding. The stake presidency
were present, also the Relief Society stake
board and a majority of the ward presidents.
After the opening exercises, President
Standring greeted the sisters; was grateful
to see so many present, and wished all a
happy and prosperous new year. We
have passed through many trials and sor-
rows in the past year, but the Lord has
blessed us abundantly, and all He asks of
us in return is to give Him our hearts. He
will be with us and sustain us if we do our
duty. Reminded the sisters that our An-
nual day, March 17, was approaching, and
the fee is needed, for it is a great expense
to send missionaries to Mexico and Canada
and other distant places; she also spoke of
the Memorial building, and hoped the sis-
ters would contribute for that purpose this
year.
	The presidents were then called upon for
reports, and all the wards were represented
except Cedar Valley; all reported as in
fairly good condition, quite a number have
been helping to build and furnish meeting
houses, some granaries have been added
to the number, and the sisters have been
very busy waiting on the sick, helping the
poo[-], and working hard in many ways.
Meetings have been held regularly, with
good attendance and the Spirit of the Lord
prevailing.
	Connselor James H Clarke addrəssed the
meeting. Spoke of the evil of allowing
the children to be on the streets at night
who ought to be at home. Numbers of
parents seem careless as to the whereabouts
of their children at nights; these boys see
and hear many things that are detrimental
to them. Get them interested in reading
the Juvenile Instructor and other Church
publications; there is an influence about
these papers that is good for the children.
We are benefitted by good maetings and
good books, let the reading be pure and
good and it will have its effect upon your
children. Do not let them ling[-]r around
the doors of saloons or read improper liter-
ature. Keep them home at night and have
them retire early. Let us make the society
better that our children associate with.
	Singing. Benediction by Counselor An-
nie C. Hindley.
	Afternoon session.—Sisters re-assembled
at 2 o'clock. Opened by singing, prayer,
minutes, etc.
	President Standring felt doubly grateful
to see so many present. A question had
been asked whether those sisters who do
not attend meetings nor contribute to the
society should be continued on the roll.
The answer was, that their names should be
kept on the roll, unless the sisters desired
to have them removed. Spoke of the wheat
gathered by the society; the money donated
for wheat should not be used for any other
purpose, nor be kept on hand, but take the
money and buy the grain and take care of
it, for the day of famine will come, not from
the shortage of crops, but from the great
influx of people to this country. Arrange
circumstances so that the grain will be un-
der your own supervision, and ask the
blessing of the Lord upon it. Let us not
neglect our duties and the Lord will bless
us.
	President Stephen L. Chipman[-] The
best of us make mistakes, but it is a very
nice thing to work in harmony. We
should each of us understand our calling,
and not come in contact with another's
duty or privilege. The bishops feel that
the Relief Society is one of the strongest

[Column 2]
auxiliaries that they have for working
and helping to care for the poor. Sister
Standring is an old and efficient worker
in the Relief Society, and she is fully
able to counsel and direct the sisters. The
Presidency are well pleased with the la-
bors of the society, and are in accord wth
Preside nt Standring, and she is rightin
her instruction concerning the grain being
properly garnered and taken care of, and
the e should be no trouble in this direction.
President Chipman also gave s[-]me instruc-
tions in regard to the fast offerings; was in
favor of the Relief Society handling the
fast offerings as well as the Relief Society
funds.
	Sister Emma Rushton, of Idaho, sa[-]d,
Women who do not belong to the society
are behind in many respects, they are not
so capable and cannot apply these good
teachings, because they do not hear them,
an[-] cannot be so successful at home.
	Counselor Abel J. Evans.—We have a
right to receive inspiration. Let us be
loyal and true to each other, to our breth-
ren, to our country and to our religion. It
is a very serious thing to betray a trust,
for there are none who are held in contempt
like a traitor; let us not be carriers o[-] stor-
ies to the detriment of our neighbors. When
you find a Mormon that is true to his reli-
gi[-]n you may trust him. May the peace
of our Father be upon you in all your la-
bors.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley desired to
apply to her own good the teachings that
had been given. The remarks have been
timely and excellent and given in the prop-
er spirit. Spoke of the children and
thought they had too much liberty. We
know that bad company is fascinating to
our yo[-]ng people, and should do our best
to keep th[-]m in the path of virtue and
righteousness. Thought we were not as
true as we should be to each other.
	Sister Zina Chipman, missionary, said
our reward is sure if we continue or labor
of love. It is not alone taking care of the
poor and sick, but it is the principle of obe-
dience that we must learn. What has been
said today has been for our good; we must
set an example before our children, by
which they will gain inform[-]tion and in-
struction that will make them useful men
and women. If we can only be proper
teachers of our children they will receive
that spirit that will make them wise unto
salvation.
	Stake Treasurer and Cor. Sec. Emma J.
Roberts made a few remarks upon the hab-
its of children, and read the financial report
of the stake for the year ending December
31, 1904, which was unanimously accepted.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing, prayer by Counselor Harriet
Jacobs.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
Secretary.


