A BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
		SISTER E. B. WELLS.
	On February 25th the Utah Woman’s
Press Club and Reapers’ Club met conjoint-
ly at the home of Mrs. C. F. Wilcox to ex-
press their love and best wishes to their
much esteemed leader, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
There were present as guests, their beloved
Sisters Bathsbeba W. Smith, and Julia C.
Howe. Much regret was expressed at the
absence of Sister M. Isabella Horne, who
was unable to attend owing to feeble
health.
	A presentation was made by Sister Ruth
M. Fox, in the name of the Press and
Reapers’, of a handsome spectacle case, set
in silver engraved with Mrs. Wells’ initials
and the names of the clubs, who donated
it.
	Some very appropriate and complimen-
tary words were spoken by Sister Fox in a
poem form composed by her for the oc-
casion.
	A fine program had been prepared—Miss
Ellis Shipp recited in excellent style, “Little
Orphan Annie,” by “Riley.” and Miss Olea
Shipp sang “Let Me Love Thee,” by Ar-
ditta, and the English ballad, “The Kerry
Dance.” Master Stevenson Wilcox played
several musical selections.
	Three of Mrs. Wells’ poems from her
book, “Musings and Memories,” were
given. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, in a musical
voice, read “In the Garden of my Dreams.”
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts read, very ex-
pressively, “The Wife to her Husband,”
and Mrs. Lillian L. Maeser, in her excel-
lent style, read “The Voice of the Moun-
tains.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
her long acquaintance with Sister Wells
and the close friendship extending over
many long years. Mrs. Maria Frances
spoke of her deep love and great admiration


for her; paid a glorious tribute to her work
for women. Sister Wells responded very
briefly. The flowers were simply sweet and
lovely and everything in the way of decor-
ating was dainty and beautiful.
	The refreshments under the direction of
Sisters Wilcox and Candland were excellent
and a credit to them as caterers, several
sweet young women assisted in serving
also little Claire Wilcox and Miss Eva Jen-
son
	There were about eighty persons in all
and it was a very delightful afternoon
gathering.
