			ENSIGN STAKE.
				HOME.
	“He is happiest, be he king or peasant,
who finds peace in his home.”

Lecture I.—The Newly Married Couple.
	a. Beginning life in a home by them-
selves. b. Getting acquainted with each
other. c. Relation of husband and wife.
Respect each others’ feelings. d. Finan-
ces: Simple beginning. Personal allow-
ance for wife. Home expenses and saving.

Lecture II.—Hospitality in the Home.
	“Not the furnishings, but the friends
that adorn the home.”
	a. The unexpected or chance guest. The
invited guest or guests. b. Simplicity in
entertaining. c. Prize giving. Honesty in
gaining prizes.

Lecture III.—Idealism in the Home.
	“Hitch your wagon to a star.”
	a. Have high ideals even though you are
certain you may fall short. b. Industry
and system: “Laziness grows on people; it
begins in cobwebs and ends in iron chains.
The more business a man has to do the
more he can accomplish; for he learns to
economize time.” c. Cheerfulness and con
tentment. “The most manifest sign of
wisdom is continued cheerfulness.” “A
contented mind is a continual feast.”

[Column 2]
Lecture IV.—Idealism in the Home (contin-
	ued.
	a. Atmosphere of peace and rest. “Peace,
the offspring of power.” “Peace rules the
day where reason rules the mind.” b
Spirituality: Bible lessons with children.
Memorizing passages. c. Sabbath after-
noons. Value of prayer. d. Living the
truth. Honoring contracts  Give quota-
tions.

Lecture V.—Relation of Parents and Chil-
	ren.
	a. Home a Republic and not a Mon-
archy. b. Family Councils. c. Evening
Recreations. d. Family Loyalty. c. Pre-
varication and Deception. Give quotations.

Lecture VI.—Who is the Wise Mother?
	a. The over-domestic mother. b. The
“tea” going or sewing-club mother. c.
The meeting going mother. Where are the
children while the mothers are following
their fads?

	“The instruction received at the moth-
er’s knee, and the paternal lessons, together
with the pious and sweet souvenirs of the
fireside, are never effaced entirely from the
soul.”
	Committee: Sarah S. Stewart, Margaret
C. Roberts, Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
	Margaret A. Romney, president; Annie
K. Hardy, secretary.

SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (continued).

Lecture 7.—Infancy.
	(a) Physical care and training of chil-
dren during infancy or the first three years
of life. (b) Necessity of careful feeding af-
ter the weaning period, especially through
teething. (c) Food should be nourishing,
avoiding meat and pastry. (d) Piecing to
be avoided as much as possible. (e) Plenty
of fresh air; clothing should be suitable for
season. Thick soled shoes for outdoor
wear.

Lecture 8.—Mental and Moral Training.
	(a) Children hould be taught early to
respect each other’s rights and not appro-
priate indiscriminately the rights belonging
to others. (b) Should also be taught obed-
ience by kindness and firmness. (c) A
stubborn child should be antagonized as lit-
tle as possible till it reaches the years of 
accountabiilty. (d) Be quick to praise and
slow to blame. (e) Avoid corporal pun-
ishment till all other means fail. Necessity
of self-control for the mother. (f) Patience
one of the chief virtues.

Lecture 9.—Home Life of Children.
	(a) Necessity of making home pleasant.
(b) Every mother should have time to
teach and play with her children. (c)
Teach them early to pray and ask the

[Column 3]
blessing on the food; also to be helpful and
unselfish. (d) Require them to put away
their own playthings, mistaken kindness
to give them too many toys. (e) Allow
them to have simple little parties occasion-
ally, thus training them in unselfishness,
hospitality and good manners. (f) Import-
ance of religious training and regular at-
tendance at Sunday school.

Lecture 10.—School Life.
	(a) School life of children from six to
ten. (b) Teach them to respect their teach-
ers and avoid criticism in their hearing.
(b) Train them early to do everything pos-
sible for themselves in getting ready for
school. (d) Impress upon them the neces-
sity of neatness, punctuality and obedience.
(e) If it is necessary to take lunch, see that
it consists of nourishing, healthful food,
that their minds and bodies may be strong
and active. Teach them that purity of
thought and action is essential.

Lecture 11.—Training.
	(a) Training of children during the criti-
cal period between the ages of ten and six-
teen. (b) Emphasize the moral and relig-
ious training previously given. (c) Warn
them of the dangers of evil companionship.
(d) Encourage them to confide their trials
and temptations to you. (e) See that they
have innocent amusements at proper times
and places. (f) Keep them off the street at
night, (g) Avoid late hours and late sup-
pers. (h) Mothers should be especially
patient with children of both sexes dur-
ing the period of puberty. (i) The im-
portant changes going on in their systems
causing them to be irritable and unreason-
able. (j) We should also be careful in
teaching the girls to take proper care of
their bodies and the danger of exposure to
cold. (k) Make companions of both boys
and girls, and encourage them to trust and
confide in you. (l) Wise and judicious
mothers are the hope of the nation.

Lecture 12.—Summary of Previous Lec-
	tures.
	(a) All the most important points to be
reconsidered. (b) Mothers should never
be too busy or too worried to listen to their
children’s troubles or answer their ques-
tions. (c) Should always remember the
priceless privilege of training immortal
souls.
			ALVIRA L. COX,
		President Relief Society.


