AUNT EM’S BIRTHDAY PARTY!
	The party given on February 28 (as
there was no 29), 1905, the sisters of the
General Relief Society Board and mission-
aries at the residence of Sister Phebe Young
Beatie, was a perfect success in every par-
ticular, as far as elaborate decorations, gifts,
flowers and refreshments could make it.
The many intimate friends of the one
whom they met to honor were a joy to her
and to each other, and the choice senti-
ments of affection and friendship that were
given amounted to an ovation, to say the
least Beside delicate china, books and
flowers, dress patterns, gloves and handker-
chiefs, there was an elegant satchel, and a
magnificent birthday cake surmounted
with winged cupids and lettered, etc. The
cake contained a gold ring, silver thimble,
money and button (we may guess at its
meaning). There were some songs by Sis-
ter Margaret C. Hull and Maria Winder at
the opening of the exercises, and Miss Olea
Shipp accompanied on the piano, this young
lady also played “The Star-Spangled Ban-
ner” while the gifts were being presented.
Afterwards Miss Shipp sang “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior,” one of Sister Wells’
compositions.
	These good, goodly ladies assembled on
this occasion in the hospitable home of Sis-
ter Beatie all looked very glad and happy,
as well as beautfful, and the event was a
sort of triumph to the donors; for there is
more pleasure in giving than in receiving,
	There were too many present to mention
by name, but suffice to say it was a fair
company of “fair women.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith and Honorary
President M. Isabella Horne were present
and spoke a few words of love and greeting,
and it was sincerely regretted that Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards was not well enough
to attend the gathering. These three sis-
ters are veterans in the Relief Society and
in the Church; they were members of the
society in Nauvoo, although only Sister
Bathsheba Smith was present when it was
organized. Sisters Horne and Richards
joined the society afterwards. These wom-
en are historic characters. 

	The harpstrings may be shattered,
	And the rose leaves may be scattered.
		But the memory remaineth;
	And the love that we have cherished,
	And the hope that we have nourished.
		The immortal soul retaineth.


Carmen Sylva, Queen of Roumania, who
has just celebrated her 60th birthday, opened
a refuge for old people and invalids to com-
memorate the event.


