	GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Seventy fifth Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, held in the great Tabernacle, com-
mencing at 10 a m. on Thur[-]day, April 6,
1905 was certainly one of the largest, if not
the very largest that has ever been conven-
ed in the history of the Church, and was
assuredly one of the most enjoyable and will
make one of the most memorable of these,
events ever recorded in history.
	Everything connected with the Confer-
ence passed off in a manner appropriate to
such momentous occasions.
	It was indeed an imposing spectacle to
witness the stands and platform filled with
men holding the highest authority in the
holy priesthood. First Presidency, Apostles,
Patriarchs, First Council of Seventy, Presi-
dents of Stakes, Presiding Bishops: and the
Tabernacle choir seats crowded with the
sweet singers of Israel, and eminent musi-
cians to discourse sacred music inspiring
the souls of all present in that vast congre-
gation to higher, holier and purer aspira-
tions, as sacred music always does.
	When one recalls that this great body
of people in the General Conferences of the
Church have come hundreds, and even
thousands of miles in some instances, to at-
tend the meetings and listen to the teach-
ings from men inspired by the Holy Spirit,
to give both spiritual and temporal advice
and counsel to the hosts of men, women
and children assembled, it thrills one with
joy and gratitude to hear and to witness
what the Lord has done in the age in which
we live for the benefit of those who will
accept the divine message of this the last
dispensation of the fulness of times revealed
from heaven through the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Truly it is a wonderful work and how
can doubt enter into the minds of the Saints,
when they contemplate what has been done
for Zion through the instrumentality of the
men raised up from time to time to carry on
this marvelous work.
	Besides the great gatherings in the Tab-
ernacle overflow meetings were held in the
Assembly Hall adjacent, and out-door
preaching in the Temple yard for the ac-
commodation and edification of the crowds
who could not gain entrance in either house
of worship.
	The people generally will look forward
to receiving the newspapers that publish
full discourses and to the pamphlet contain-

[column 2]
ing the entire proceedings of this extraord-
inary Conference, for such it really was in
many respects. The Latter-day Saints are
very apt to say after each Conference, that
it was the very best ever held, but this
April Conference was a significant one for
many reasons, the peculiar condition of the
people at the present time, that indicates
stirring events that must be met with the
greatest wisdom this people are capable of
exercising, otherwise serious consequences
must inevitably follow. The Saints have
been warned and forewarned of the perilous
times and should be diligent in season and
out of season to every religious duty, as
well as temporal things; and hearken to the
still small voice that whispers to all who
are seeking to live right and serve the Lord
and help build up and establish truth and
righteousness in the earth and save man-
kind so far as possible from degradation
and sin.
	It is customary among the Latter-day
Saints to talk of being saviors upon Mount
Zion but we should one and all who love
our fellow-men labor to save our own, and
do all in our power to sustain those who
stand at the helm, to guide the great ship
Zion in safety for the salvation of all who
will stay on board and listen to the voice
of the Good Shepherd.
	After all the instruction given by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and other inspired
men who have spoken during this grand
and glorious Conference, surely there will
be an awakening among the people who de-
sire to stand fast for the cause in which
they have enlisted, and they will be more dili-
gent in keeping the commandments of God
and fulfilling the covenants made in the
house of the Lord in holy places and in
solemn assembles. If the Saints would do
this no good thing could be withheld for so
He has said whose word cannot be broken.


