WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS. 
From President Roosevelt's Address to the Congress 
of Mothers. 
“No piled-up wealth, no splendor of ma- 
terial growth, no brilliance of artistic de-
velopment, will permanently avail any peo-
ple unless its home life is healthy, unless 
the average man possesses honesty, cour-
age, common sense and decency, unless he 
works hard and is willing at need to fight 
hard; and unless the average woman is a 
good wife, a good mother, able and willing 
to perform the first and greatest duty of 
womanhood, able and willing to bear, and 
bring up as they should be brought up, 
healthy children, sound in body, mind and 
character, and numerous enough so that the 
race shall increase and not decrease. 
There are certain old truths which will 
be true as long as this world endures, and 
which no amount of progress can alter. 
One of these is the truth that the primary 
duty of the husband is to be the home-
maker, the bread-winner for his wife and 
children, and that the primary duty of the 
woman is to be the helpmeet, the house-
wife and mother. The woman should have 
ample educational advantages; but, save in 
exceptional cases, the man must be, and 
she need not be, and generally ought not 
to be, trained for a lifelong career as the 
family bread-winner; and, therefore, after a 
certain point, the training of the two must 
normally be different, because the duties of 
the two are normally different. This does 
not mean inequality of functions, but it 
does mean that normally there must be 
dissimilarity of function. On the whole, I 
respect the woman who does her duty even 
more than I respect the man who does his. 
No ordinary work done by a man is either 
as hard or as responsible as the work of a 
woman who is bringing up a family of 
small children; for upon her time and 
strength demands are made not only every 
hour of the day, but often every hour of 
the night. She may have to get up night 
after night to take care of a sick child, and 
yet must by day continue to do all her house-
hold duties as well; and if the family means 
are scant she must usually enjoy even her 
rare holiday taking her whole brood of chil-
dren with her. The birth-pangs make all
men the debtors of all women. Above all, 
our sympathy and regard are due to the 
struggling wives among those whom Abra-
ham Lincoln called the plain peo-
ple, and whom he so loved and trusted; for 
the lives of these women are often led on 
the lonely heights of quiet, self-sacrificing 
heroism. 
Just as the happiest and most honorable 
and most useful task that can be set any 
man is to earn enough for the support of 
his wife and family, for the bringing up 
and starting in life of his children, so the 
most important, the most honorable and de-
sirable task which can be set any woman is 
to be a good and wise mother in a home 
marked by self-respect and mutual forbear-
ance, by willingness to perform duty, and 
by refusal to sink into self-indulgence or 
avoid that which entails effort and self-sac-
rifice. Of course, there are exceptional 
men and exceptional women who can do, 
and ought to do, much more than this, who 
can lead and ought to lead great careers of 
outside usefulness in addition to- not as 
substitutes for- their home work; but I 
am not speaking of exceptions; I am speak-
ing of the primary duties, I am speaking of 

[Column 2]
the average citizens, the average men and 
women who make up the nation." 
Inasmuch as I am speaking to an assem-
blage of mothers, I shall have nothing 
whatever to say in praise of an easy life. 
Yours is the work which is never ended. 
No mother hns an easy time, and most 
mothers have very hard times. and yet 
what true mother would barter her experi-
ence of joy and sorrow in exchange for a 
life of cold selfishness which insists upon 
perpetual amusement and the avoidance of 
care, and which often finds its fit dwelling 
place in some flat designed to furnish with 
the least possible expenditure of effort the 
maximum of comfort and of luxury but 
in which there is literally no place for chil-
dren. 
The woman who is a good wife, a good 
mother, is entitled to our respect as is no 
one else. but she is entitled to it only be-
cause, and so long as, she is worthy of it. 
Effort and self-sacrifice are the law of 
worthy life for the man as for the woman; 
though neither the effort nor the self-sacri-
fice may be the same for the one as for the 
other. I do not in the least believe in the 
patient Griselda type of woman—of the
woman who submits to gross and long-
continued ill-treatment, any more than I 
believe in a man who tamely submits to 
wrongful aggression. No wrongdoing is  
so abhorrent as wrongdoing by a man to-
wards the wife and the children that should 
arouse every tender feeling in his nature. 
Selfishness towards them, lack of tender-
ness towards them, laek of consideration 
for them, above all, brutality in any form 
toward them, should arouse the heartiest 
scorn and indignation in every upright
soul.
I believe in the woman’s keeping her 
self-respect just as I believe in the man’s
doing so. I believe in her rights just as 
much as I believe in the man’s, and indeed 
a little more; and I regard marriage as a 
partnership, in which each partner is in 
honor bound to think of the rights of the 
other as well as of his or her own. But I 
think that the duties are even more im-
portant than the rights, and in the long 
run I think that the reward is ampler and 
greater for duty well done than for the in-
sistence upon individual rights, necessary 
though this, too, must often be. Your duty 
is hard, your responsibility great; but 
greatest of all is your reward. I do not 
pity you in the least. On the contrary, I 
feel respect and admiration for you. 
Into the woman’s keeping is committed 
the destiny of the generations to come after 
us. In bringing up your children, you 
mothers must remember that while it is es-
sential to be loving and tender, it is no 
less essential to be wise and firm. Fool-
ishness and affection must not be treated 
as interchangeable terms; and besides 
training your sons and daughters in the 
softer and the milder virtues, you must seek 
to give them those stern and hardy qualities 
which in after life they will surely need-
Some children will go wrong in spite of 
the best training, and some will go right 
even when their surroundings are most un-
fortunate; nevertheless, an immense am-
ount depends upon the family training. If 
you mothers, through weakness, bring up 
your sons to be selfish and to think only of
themselves,you will be responsible for much 
sadness among the women who are to be 
their wives in the future. If you let your 
daughters grow up idle, perhaps under the 
mistaken impression that, as you yourself 

[Column 3]
have had to work hard, they shall know 
only enjoyment, you are preparing them 
to be useless to others and burdens to them-
selves. 
Teach boys and girls alike that they are 
not to look forward to lives spent in avoid-
ing difficulties, but to lives spent in over-
coming difficulties. Teach them that work 
for themselves, and also for others, is not a 
curse, but a blessing; seek to make them 
happy, to make them enjoy life, but seek 
also to face life with the steadfast resolution 
to wrest success from labor and adversity, 
and to do their whole duty before God and 
to man. Surely she who can thus train
her sons and her daughters is most fortu-
nate among women. 
There are many good people who are 
denied the supreme blessing of children, 
and for these we have the respect and sym-
pathy always due to those who, from no 
fault of their own, are denied any of the 
other great blessings of life; but the man 
or woman who deliberately foregoes these 
blessings, whether from viciousness, cold-
ness, shallow-heartedness, self-indulgence, 
or mere failure, to appreciate aright the dif-
ference between the all-important and the
unimportant—why, such a creature merits 
contempt as hearty as any visited upon 
the soldier who runs away in battle,or up-
on the man who refuses to work for the 
support of those dependent upon him,
and who, though able-bodied, is yet content 
to eat in idleness the bread which others 
provide. 
The existence of women of this type 
forms one of the most unpleasant and un-
wholesome features of modern life. If any 
one is so dim of vision as to fail to see 
what a thoroughly unlovely creature such 
a woman is, I wish they would read Judge 
Robert Grant’s novel,“Unleavened Bread,”
ponder seriously the character of Selma, and
think of the fate that would surely over-
come any nation which developed its aver-
age and typical woman along such lines. 
Unfortunately, it would be untrue to say 
that this type exists only in American nov-
els. That it also exists in American life is 
made unpleasantly evident by the statistics 
as to the dwindling families in some localit-
ies. 
It is made evident in equally sinister fash-
ion by the census statistics as to divorce, 
which are fairly appalling, for easy divorce 
is now, as it ever has been, a bane to any 
nation, a curse to society, a menace to the 
home, an incitement to married unhappi-
ness and to immorality, an evil thing for
men,and a still more hideous evil for wom-
en. These unpleasant tendencies in our 
American life are made evident by articles 
such as those which I actually read not
long ago, in a certain paper, where a clergy-
man was quoted, seemingly with approval,
as expressing the general American atti-
tude when he said that the ambition of any 
save a very rich man, should be to rear two 
children only, so as to give his children an 
opportunity “to taste a few of the good 
things of life.”
This man, whose profession and calling 
should have made him a moral teacher, ac-
tually set before others the ideal, not of 
training children to do their duty, not of 
sending them forth with stout hearts and 
ready minds to win triumphs for themselves 
and their country, not of allowing them the 
opportunity and giving them the privilege 
of making their own place in the world, 
but, forsooth of keeping the number of chil-
dren so limited that they might “taste a


few good things!’’ The way to give a child
a fair chance in life is not to bring it up in
luxury, but to see that it has the kind of
training that will give it strength of char-
acter. Even apart from the vital question
of national life, and regarding only the in-
dividual interest of the children themselves,
happiness in the true sense is a hundred
fold more apt to come to any given mem-
ber of a healthy family of healthy-minded
children well brought up, well educated,
but taught that they must shift for them-
selves, but win their own way, and by their
own exertions make their own positions of
usefulness, than it is apt to come to those
whose parents themselves have acted on
and have trained their children to act on
the selfish and sordid theory that the whole
end of life is “to taste a few good things.”
The inelligence of the remark is on a par
with its morality, for the most rudimentary
mental process would have shown the
speaker that if the average family in which
there are children contained but two chil-
dren, the nation as a whole would decrease
in population so rapidly that in two or three
generations it would very deservedly be on
the point of extinction, so that the people
who had acted on this base and selfish doc-
trine would be giving place to others, with
braver and more robust ideals. Nor would
such a result be in any way regrettable; for
a race that practiced such doctrine—that is,
a race that practised race suicide—would
thereby conclusively show that it was unfit
to exist, and that it had better give place
to people who had not forgotten the prim-
ary laws of their being.
To sum up, then, the whole matter is
simple enough. If either a race or an in-
dividual prefers the pleasure of mere effort-
less ease, of self-indulgence, to the infinitely
deeper, the infinitely higher pleasures that
come to those who know the toil and the
weariness, but also the joy, of hard duty
well done, why that race or that individual
must inevitably in the end pay the penalty
of leading a life both vapid and ignoble.
No man and no woman really worthy of the
name can care for a life spent solely or
chiefly in the avoidance or risk of trouble
and labor.  Save in exceptional cases the
prize worth having in life must be paid for,
and the life worth living must be a life of
work for a worthy end, and ordinarily of
work more for others than one’s self.
The man is but a poor creature whose
effort is not rather for the betterment of his
wife and children than for himself, and as
for the mother, her very name stands for
loving unselfishness and self-abnegation,
and, in any society fit to exist, is fraught
with associations which render it holy.
The woman’s task is not easy—no task
worth doing is easy—but in doing it, and
when she has done it, there shall come to
her the highest and holiest joy known to
mankind; and having done it, she shall
have the reward prophesied in Scripture,
for her husband and her children, yes and
all people who realize that her work lies at
the foundation of all national happiness and
greatness,shall rise up and call her blessed.”


