TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER C. S. WILLIAMS
	The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society,
on November 15, 1904, paid a fitting trib-
ute to the retiring president, Clarissa S.
Williams, after her appointment to preside
over the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake.
	The hall was profusely decorated with
chrysanthemums and the Stars and Stripes
conspicuously draped made a very pleasing
appearance. After singing, prayer was
offered by Sister Julia C. Howe, and the
new president, Fidelia Jacobs gave an


[Column 1]
address full of inspiration and love towards
the Guest of Honor; a solo was beautifully
sung by Sister Gwendolyn Lewis Little,
“If there’s sunshine in your heart today.”
Sister Abbie H. Cowly read very sweetly
the poem, “It is sweet to be remembered,”
Counselor Sophia Y. Nuttall, in a few well-
chosen words, presented Sister Williams
with a handsome and valuable book entitled
“One Thousand and One Gems of Poetry
and Songs,” and spoke feelingly of the
many gifts and graces possessed by the late
president, her modesty, honesty, loyalty
and sincerity of purpose, etc.
	Sister Williams responded by telling the
good things she really knew of her fellow-
workers in the ward, where she had presided
seven years and had been secretary three
years previously, spoke of their forbearance
when she first took up the work, and how
she had enjoyed being associated with them
in the duties of the society.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox, who had been
secretary some years while Sister Williams
presided, was glad to see the familiar faces
—it was a perfect joy to her. She referred
to Sister M. I. Horne, and her so often
quoting scripture to the sisters, how she
always enjoyed it. Sister Rachel Folland ex-
pressed her love for Sister Williams, they
had been girls together and always close
friends.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith had
thought much while listening to the sisters’
remarks, she remembered when they had a
little girl born in the house, and thought
the little girl had always been appreciated;
said how happy she was when she (Sister
Williams) was made president of the stake.
She knew all these sisters, and many more
who were not here, was pleased with the
remembrances made to Sister Williams. She
blessed all and asked the Lord to give them
His Spirit and guidance.
	Singing, “Too late! too late!”
	Expressions of love and esteem by Sister
E.B. Wells. Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde
made a very good talk on the work of
the Relief Society and her desire for pro-
gress and advancement.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker said had she been
called to labor as counselor with anyone
except Sister Williams, she would have
shrunk from the responsibility, and referred
to many pleasant visits made in the stake.
	Miss Afton Wright recited very daintily
“My Mama’s Precious Little Girl,” and
for an encore the “Forget-me-not.” Sister
Marcia Hyde spoke of the early days in the
ward, and her interest in the charity work.
She had been a teacher in the society ten
years, and was glad of the experiences.
	Sister Williams felt she wanted to be-
queathe some of her hopes and aspirations
to the present officers. She had, while
president, such an ambition to remodel the
Relief Society house; dreamed as it were of
doing something to the building. Referred
to the money taken, and told what the
Bishop’s idea was in this regard, and made
some statements of her own calculations as
to how the improvements should be made.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke
briefly about the drawing of the plans for
remodeling of the house, and how she had
looked forward to it.
	President Jacobs had felt blest with what
had been said to those who were not mem-
bers to enconrage them; thought that
while she nad been counselor in Heber City
seven years, they had helped the Bishop a
hundred dollars or more.
	Sister Georgiana Fox Young felt glad

[Column 2]
that her attention had been called in this
direction (as counselor to Sister Williams).
When a child she had gone to the Relief
Society and helped to braid straw. Re-
ferred to Sister M. Isabella Horne as an ex-
ample for all women in the great work she
had done, also some other sisters.
	Sister Alice K. Smith was glad to be in
the Seven[-]eenth Ward; before she had not
taken an active part, conditions of going to
the meet ng were not favorable. Spoke
very feelingly of the Bishops of the Nine-
teenth ward, especially Bishop James Wat-
son, who was indeed a father. Sister
Smith expressed great emotion while
speaking on account of the death of her
beloved aunt, Amanda Kimball.
	Singing, Doxology; benediction by Sister
Sarah E. Smith.

[checkmark written by hand]


