WAYNE STAKE.

	Wayne Stake Relief Society Conference
was held Jan. 14, 1905, at Thurber R. S.
Hall, Pres. Jane S. Coleman presiding;
after the usual opening exercises Pres. Cole-
man wished all present a happy and pros-
perous New Year; thought the minutes
just read were of an elevating nature, re-
ported Stake labors, that there was perfect
union in the Stake Board. Counselor M.
E. Hanks could not be present, her babe
being sick. Counselor Sarah Forsyth
had been honorably released and was now
in Canada, which left a vacancy in the
Stake officers, spoke very highly of her
good words and deeds, that she would al-
ways be held in loving remembrance by her
sisters in the Wayne Stake; Sister Bathshe-
ba Grundy was chosen to act as Second
Counselor, received a clear vote. The
duties of the officers and members were
spoken upon and that the Relief Society
was especially for looking after the poor
and sick and those who need warming up
in the faith of the Gospel.
	Loa Relief Society, reported by Coun-
selor Elizabeth Jeffrey; Lyman, Counselor
Orilla Chappel; Thurber, Pres. Sarah E.
Meeks; Teasdale, Counselor Angeline Cole-
man; Torey, Pres. Mary E. Perry; all were
in good condition, they all had gathered up
a good donation of wheat for storing; all
made good remarks upon Relief Society
work.
	Counselor Bathsheba Grundy felt that
the Spirit of the Lord was in our midst,
was desirous to do that which would be re-
quired of her as a Stake officer.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison was truly grate-
ful to enjoy this conference, said much good
can be accomplished by the Relief Society
teachers, to cheer the down cast, visit the
sick and by being active members it made
us better wives and mothers.
	Elder Joseph Eckersley felt the Relief
Society was a tower of strength, said Pres.
Coleman was faithful and untiring in her
efforts, that Counselor Mary E. Hanks’
heart was in the work, that Counselor
Sarah S. Forsyth’s presence would be
missed, spoke highly of her faithful labor

[Column 2]
in the Wayne Stake, thought Sister Grundy
had proven her interest in Woman’s work,
in other associations, and she could be de-
pended upon; paid tribute to the lovely,
genial character of the late Sister Lucinda
Brown who had recently passed from this
life, advised teaching purity of life to our
sons and daughters, try to seek for the
Spirit of the Lord and have discernment to
choose the good and refuse the evil, and
understand the spirit of the time; be true
to your covenants, honor your callings, and
the blessing of the Lord be upon you.
	Benediction by Elder Gastian S. Bastian.
	Afternoon session. Pres. Jane S. Cole-
man read the yearly financial statement.
Spoke about what had been accomplished
in silk culture, the sample of cocoons sent
to the division of entomology at Washing-
ton D. C. were pronounced very good by
the chief of the bureau and graded firs
class, said it was very pleasing to know our
trees were of a good quality, felt we were
favored by having the Stake Presidency
at our conference.
	Elder G. S. Bastian spoke on looking
after the poor, that none should suffer, also
that parents should study the natures of
their children, to teach them purity and
reverence, mothers prepare their children
for Sabbath school, their influence was the
greater in the home, they were always pres-
ent with the children, would have liked to
see more of the brethren present, many of
the sisters had come from a distance which
showed interest in the work, prayed the
blessing of the Lord upon the Relief Society.
	Sister L. C. Ostberg, missionary, enjoyed
the excellent spirit of the conference, spoke
to mothers upon the responsibility resting
upon them to teach honesty, truth, and
other virtues.
	Sisters Kingstrup, Eliza Brinkerhoff,
Flora Russel, Bathsheba Grundy, all made
remarks encouraging to young mothers,
urging them to live up to the teachings of
the Gospel, and bore their testimonies to
the truth of the work of the Lord, and all
had kind words to say of Counselor Sarah
S. Forsyth who had left the Wayne Stake.
	Bishop George Stringam had enjoyed
listening to the remarks of the brethren and
sisters, did not know how we could get
along without the Relief Sociely sisters,
said the Relief Society is a good help in the
Church.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Viola
Brinkerhoff. Conference adjourned for six
months.

