EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Utah
S, S. D. R. was held in room 508, Temple-
ton building, Thursday, Feb. 16, 1905,
Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie in the chair. An
excellent paper by Mrs. W. H. King, con-
taining valuable information and a de-
scription of Mount Vernon, the home of
Washington. Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith
read a paper on Martha Washington
prepared by Mrs. Florence Scholes, now in
New York City. Considerable business was
transacted, and a good time enjoyed by
those present. 
	The March meeting of the D. R., Thurs-
day 16th, inst., was a good one, the Reg-
ent, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, in the chair.
Vice-Regent, Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber, was
also present, and as guest, her mother, Mrs.
Charlotte F. Richards. After the transac-
tion of miscellaneous business, and the elec-
tion of Mrs. Florence S. Sears as delegate to
the D. R. Convention to be held in South
Carolina in May, 1905, the death of Mrs. 
Israel Evans, of Lehi, one of the D. R. 
members, was mentioned, and a Resolution
of condolence and sympathy to the family
offered and a committee of two appointed to
write and express the sense of the meeting
in the great loss sustained by the Society
and family, and the community in which
she resided. The papers were Major Peter
Schuyler, by Miss Catharine Wells, and
General Montgomery, by Mrs. Mary A. H.
Cannon, both interesting topics and excel-
lently well given. The meeting was very
enjoyable. 
	We have lately looked over carefully the
book, “School and Fireside,” by Professor
Karl G. Maeser, who was for years con-
nected with the schools of Utah, and later
was General Superintendent of L. D. S. 
Church Schools. His varied experience in
the wide field of scholastic education, and
his broad views as a man of superior intel-
lectual talents and ability, entitle his works
to a high and conspicuous place in the liter-
ature of our own time, and make them of
immense value to the student, whose aim is
to excel in the best methods of instruction
for a higher education and in all that pertains
to a better and more useful life for the world
of mankind. The extreme modesty of Prof. 
Maeser placed him almost at a disadvantage
during his lifetime, but like many other
men of great mental power he may yet be-
come more highly appreciated. The book
mentioned in this brief notice is for sale,
and the writer takes great pleasure in rec-
commending it as suitable for the homes
and firesides of the Latter-day Saints, as
well as for the Church schools. It contains
an abundance of information carefully di-
vided into subjects or topics, and one must
necessarily, feel mind and thought enriched
after the perusal of such choice reading mat-
ter. The spirit of the work is congenial to
a true Latter-day Saint, and one feels re-
reshed and invigorated, as well as grown
much wiser after feasting upon its contents. 
	We have received from the Neale Pub-
lishing Company, New York City, some
books suggesting reviews or notices, and
we feel quite willing to give favorable
mention of the books received. “The Grif-
fins,” by Mary Stuart Young, of Savannah,
Georgia, recommends itself in its dedication
to a large number of patriotic American
women. It is charmingly written, and its
subject of the colonial times and treating


of “My Lord Fairfax” of Virginia, and also
of many historic characters, both men and
women, is positively delightful. The book
gives one a good insight into London soci-
ety of that period, more than a hundred
years ago, and also of the Colonial people
of America interesting. The pages are
full of characteristic instances of
loyalty and also of strategy. It is replete
with vivid pen pictures of romantic scenes
and adventures, treating of love and war.
Altogether a safe and pleasing book for
young people, and can scarcely be called
light reading. It talks of old-time Christ-
mas dinners in Virginia and the South, and
of old-fashioned after-dinner songs.
	“The Yellow Jasmine.” This is a sweet,
pretty Southern story, and though entirely
different in tone and style from the Griffins,
is far above the ordinary in language and
sentiment. It is really an attractive little
volume, and one may conscientiously rec-
ommend its perusal. It shows Southern
life in vivid realistic pen pictures. The
moral tone of this story is healthful, and
one need not be afraid of the tendency; the
language is choice, and there is nothing to
incite anything but the noblest feelings. It
ought to sell well for public or private libra-
ries. The Neale Publishing Company,
New York and Washington.


