VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.
	The Presidency of the St. George Stake
Relief Society left St. George May 2nd, and
in the afternoon met with the Relief Society
of Leeds where Bishop McMullin met with
us and we reorganized the Society.
	Sister Susan Harris, the former president,
has moved to Wyoming, and Helen Mc-
Mullin takes her place as president. Ada
McMullin and Mary Olsen counselors. The
sisters were well pleased with our visit.
Sister Mary G. White, Stake president of
the Primary was with us and the Primary
was also reorganized. Caroline McMullin
president, Mrs. Frank McMullin and Emma
Angel counselors; we had a nice meeting,
and went on to Toquerville where counse-
lor Mary D. Batty presided at meeting of
the Relief Society as president Spilsbury
could not attend. There was a full attend-
ance and the organization was complete.
The next morning at 8 a. m. held primary
and just before the meeting closed the
school bell rang and the children ran from
the meeting like a flock of sheep, for the
school room. We then went to Virgen by
the “twist” which is a hard road, and held
Relief Society at 2 p. m. with President
Hilton presiding. We had an enjoyable
time. The sisters appreciate the yearly
visits. We here appointed Primary meet-
ings to be held as we returned.
	We went on to Grafton where we had a
general meeting. So few people live there
that it is hard to keep up the associations,
but they are striving to do right. We spent
the night with Lottie Russell and others.
Went to Rockville on the 8th and had
meeting at 10 o’clock Mary L. Stout presid-
ing: she is the mother of 15 children and
quite a young looking woman, another lady
there has had the same number. “Utah’s
best crop,” is exhibited here. We met with
77 children in the Primary association Sis-
ter Farnes presiding.
	At the close of the meeting we went on
to Springdale and spent the night at the
Bishop’s. The scenery here is grand and the
fresh mountain air is very invigorating.
	At 10 o’clock a. m. met with the Relief 
Society, Bishop Oliver Gifford met with
us. At 2 p. m. met with Primary and re-
turned to Rockville, where we spent the
night with Sister Ida Miller a widow. 
	We went to Virgen on the 6th and met
with the Primary, many of the mothers met
with us, Sister Stratton presided, we had a
nice meeting and returned to Toquerville,
and held an officers meeting with the Relief
Society.


Went to Leeds on the 7th and had Pri-
mary meeting, Caroline McMullin presiding,
a lot of well behaved children live here.
We went on to Harrisburg and met with the
people there, had a good time.
	We returned to St. George having been
gone 6 days, held 13 meetings, traveled 90
miles and enjoyed ourselves very much,
visiting with the Saints.
