WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. TRY US 

[Column 2]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
stetrics on Monday, Oct. 9, 1904, at 
her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake 
City. Those desiring to attend will 
please communicate personally or by 
letter. 
Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said 
interest Semi-annually. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
No. 1 Main Street. 
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY 
AND NURSING.
Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her 
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904. 
One student free. Write for particulars. 
This class recommended by the General 
Board of the Relief Society.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM
Sister Martha Proctor, who departed this life 
after a lingering illness, on March 22, 1904, was an 
efficient teacher for many years in the Union 
Ward, Jordan Stake Relief Society, which position 
she filled with honor, till failing health caused her 
to cease her labors. She was a woman of sterling
qualities. 
When a girl she was a mother to her father's 
motherless children, and came to the valley in the 
early fifties, and lived at the home of Squire Wells, 
where she was married from to David Proctor.
She leaves a husband, five children, twenty-four 
grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren.
The speakers at her funeral were many, includ-
ding Brother Rulon S, Wells. All testified to her 
integrity and great love for her family and friends. 
The singing by the choir was lovely and appropri-
ate. The opening prayer was offered b Elder 
John Sharp, the closing one by Elder Henry Brown 
of South Cottonwood. 
The ward meeting house was beautifully draped 
and the lovely flowers showed the esteem in which 
our beloved sister was held by her many relatives 
and friends. 
The pall bearers were her grandsons. She was 
tenderly laid away In a vault at South Cottonwood, 
the grave being dedicated by Elder James Proctor. 
M. A. SMART, Pres. R. S. 
SISTER AGNES CUTLER. 
The grim reaper, death, visited the Jordan Stake 
Relief Society on March 9, 1904, and took from us 
our faithful and beloved stake counselor, Sister 
Agnes McGregor Cutler.
Sister Cutler was born August 13, 1843, at Bon-
hill Dumbarton, Scotland. Emigrated to America 
in 1849 with her parents, William and Ann Mc-
Gregor, crossed the plains with ox teams to Utah 
in 1852, and endured all the privations of pioneer 
life and settled in Salt Lake City. Married Broth-
er Harmon Cutler of West Jordan, December 19, 
1857; was the mother of five children, three sons 
and two daughters, one daughter and two sons 
survive her of the Cutler family. Harmon Cutler 
died in the year 1868, and she married Frederic A. 
Cooper, of West Jordan, in 1870. They had three 
children, two sons and one daughter, one son now 
living. She left three sons, one daughter, twelve 
grandchildren and hosts of relatives and friends to 
mourn. She died in Salt Lake City, at her sis-
ter's Mrs. Sarah Mitchell, on March 9, 1904. 
Sister Cutler was a natural Latter-day Saint, 
and was always an active and earnest worker and 
was noted for kindness and hospitality, and she 
never was so happy as when administering to the 
wants of the poor and comforting the down-
hearted. 
When the West Jordan Relief Society was or-
ganized in January, 1868, she was chosen one of 
the first teachers, which position she held until 
May 6, 1868, when she was elected second counse-
lor to President Althea Gardner. She was chosen 
first counselor to President Louise Egbert on Dec-
ember 12, 1880. She filled that position until July 
6, 1891, she was then chosen president of the West 
Jordan Relief Society, which position she filled 
with honor until the ward was divided in 1896; 
she was honorably released from being president 
of West Jordan and appointed president of East
Jordan, which office she held until Jan. 21, 1900;
she was then chosen second counselor to President 
Marinda Bateman in the Relief Society of the Jor-
dan Stake of Zion. 
Although we miss her kind and loving face from 
our midst, we know that our loss is her gain, and 
that she will be welcome on the other side by 
many loved ones, she has seen much sorrow and 
we feel that her death was hastened by the shock 
of hearing of the death of her dearly beloved son, 
Edward, who was accidently killed in a mine in 
Park City about three months before her death. 
Another cause of regret was the absence at her 
bedside and funeral of her only daughter, Eliza-
beth Williams, who was in Idaho, and could not 
be reached in time. 
Through all her trials and sorrow she was al-
ways cheerful and pleasant and never complained 
and died as she had lived, a true Latter-day Saint.
We mourn her absence, but rejoice in her rest, 

[Column 2]
for we know she will receive the reward of the 
faithful. 
MARINDA BATEMAN, Stake Pres.
