WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL QUINQUENNIAL. 
(CONCLUDED.) 
A Third very important proposition seeks 
to secure the proper representation not only 
of different nationalities, but of different
races in the official corps of the Council. It 
is proposed that the constitution be so 
amended as to prohibit the International 
Council from having any two of the five 
chief executive officers from the same coun-
try and also from having any two of the 
five chief executive officers from the same 
race. 
It is evident from the propositions that 
have been sent in that there will be work 
enough to fill full the week of mornings 
and the half week of afternoons or evenings 
that have been reserved for business. 
As has before been announced, there are 
to be three Public Sessions of the Conncil.
For the first of these the program in gen-
eral will be as follows:—
a) Welcome by the President of the Ger-
man Council.
b) Brief response by the President of the 
International Council who will then intro-
duce the General officers, the Presidents of 
Affiliated National Councils and the Hon-
orary Vice-Presidents representing countries 
where Council organization is in progress.
Each of these will present a brief greeting 
after which the address of the International 
President will be given. 
The Second Public Session will occur on 
the evening of Thursday June 9th when 
each of the Affiliated National Councils will 
be represented in a speech of six minutes 
by a person specially elected for that purpose. 
The "Speaking Representative" for the 
United States will be Mrs. Ellen A. Rich-
ardson of Boston who will be present as will 
also her Alternate Mrs. Isabella Charles 
Davis of New York. The list of "Speaking 
Representatives" for this occasion will be 
furnished later to the papers. 
The Evening of Friday June 10th will be 
devoted to the advocacy of Peace and Arbi-
tration, when speeches will be delivered in 
the three official languages of the Council; 
Lady Aberdeen delivering the address in 
English, Madame Bogelot of France, that 
in French, and Baroness Bertha von Sutt-
ner that in German. 
So long and full a program of business 
as will be presented at the Executive cannot 

[Column 2]
be given in detail here. This outline will 
be sufficient to indicate its character and the 
interest which will attach to it. 
The week following the Council will be 
occupied by the International Congress con-
vened under the auspices of the Interna-
tional Council. Of this the complete pro-
gram upon which the German Committee 
has been working assiduously for many 
months is almost complete and later will be 
published in its entirety. At this writing, 
it is sufficient to say that the four sections 
into which, as previously announced, the 
Congress is divided will hold simultaneously 
six sessions each on the successive morn-
ings of that week, while the program for 
the evenings when the Congress will be 
assembled as a whole, instead of in sections 
will be as follows:—
Monday, June 13th—“The Present Stat-
us of the Woman's Movement in all Organ-
ized Lines." 
Tuesday, June 14th—“Frauen lohne.”
Thursday, June 16th—“The Relation of 
the Woman's Movement to Political Parties 
and Religious Sects." 
Friday, June 17th — “Woman’s Suff-
rage." 
Saturday, June 18th—“The Underlying
Principles and the Aims of the Woman's 
Movement." 
In relation to social functions concerning 
which I have received many inquiries, so
far as the Council is concerned, there will 
be an official reception given to it by the 
German Council on the evening of June 
8th, and there will be many other official 
and non-official social affairs from June 6th 
to June 11th, inclusive, while the evening
of Wednesday June 15th has been chosen 
by the German Committee of Arrangements 
for the official reception to the Congress. 
The President is in receipt of information
which leads her to believe that the Inter-
national Council will be received with the
greatest possible hospitality at the German 
capital, but it is premature at this time to 
announce with more definiteness anything 
concerning the social functions. 
In reply to many inquiries, I will say 
that it is not in accordance with the Ger-
man custom to charge an admission fee, to 
sell tickets, rent boxes or anything of this 
kind for such public meetings, so the public 
meetings will be free to all. 
During Council week, there will be, of 
course, only one meeting at a time in pro-
gress excepting when the meetings of 
Standing and Special Committees are con-
vened, and as the more distant countries 
will very likely be represented by the same 
woman on more than one such committees 
an attempt will be made to make even these
meetings successive rather than simultan-
eous in so far as is possible. 
The Business Sessions of the Council are 
not open to the public. In reply to many 
inquiries as to who are eligible to sit in the 
Executive Sessions of the Council, I will 
say that those who are entitled to a vote on 
the Executive are only the following:—
(a) The General Officers. 
(b) The President of each affiliated Na-
tional Council or her Proxy. 
(c) Two delegates from each affiliated 
National Council or their respective Alter-
nates.
Although these are the only ones with a 
constitutional right to vote, there may also 
be present the following: —
(a) Chairman of all Standing Commit-
tees. 
(b) Honorary Vice-Presidents.


(c) International Patrons. 
(d) The special member appointed by 
each Council to represent it on the Com-
mitee of Arrangements. 
The classes above enumerated have a con-
stitutional right to be present with or with-
out a vote as indicated. 
The President of the International will 
also invite to be present: 
(a) The Speaking Representatives from 
each Council where such representative is 
not included in any of the foregoing lists. 
(b) All members of all of the five Inter-
national Committees. 
(c) All Proxies and Alternates for the 
voting members of the Executive even 
though the latter be also present. 
(d) Also the four members elected or ap-
pointed by each affiliated National Council 
to attend the Quinquennial and Congress as 
"Hearers." 
It will easily be seen that with twenty
countries already in the Council, there is a 
possibility for a very large assembly of wo-
men each of whom will have some vital offi-
cial relation to the Council. 
There has been some anxiety expressed 
by Americans lest the German papers might 
not give a helpful degree of publicity to the 
proceedings of the Council and Congress. 
No anxiety need be felt upon this point. It 
has been already arranged with the great 
German newspapers that they shall send 
competent reporters to all meetings that are 
open to the public, while to the other pap-
ers in Germany and to papers outside of the 
Empire official reports will be forwarded. 
The preparation of these reports will be en-
trusted to a commission of a few skillful 
journalists to be selected by the German 
Committee of Arrangements. 
As for the American contingent, as nearly 
as I can judge from letters received, there 
will be in the neighborhood of a hundred 
and fifty women in attendance upon the 
Council and Congress at Berlin. Many of 
these have already sailed, having gone over 
in little groups from time to time for a 
month or two of travel prior to the opening 
of the Council. From present advices, I 
think, that in the neighborhood of fifty 
Council women will sail on Friederich der 
Grosse on May 19th. 
Having tried to reply as briefly as poss-
ible in order to clear up all the perplexity, 
which seems to hang about this subject, 
with many of my correspondents, I now so-
licit further letters of inquiry from anyone 
who may read this article, who desires in-
formation not herein furnished. To promote 
"The New Internationalism" that "Inter-
nationalism" which is co operative instead 
of competitive, peaceful instead of bellige-
rent, and which results in honest friendship 
instead of jealous rivalry, is the object of 
the International Council whose President 
believes that this object will be almost im-
measurably promoted by the meetings that 
will occupy the time from the 6th to the 
20th of June 1904. 
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL. 
President of the International Council of 
Women.


