					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
DISCIPLINE AND DEVELOPMENT.
	“Obedience to parental command was
Heaven’s first law”. It is no less important
now than it was at the beginning of man’s
career on the earth.	Happy indeed is the
home where a proper discipline is main-
tained; with Paul we say “Children obey
your parents in the Lord:” for it is right.
“Honor thy father and mother;” which is
the first commandment with promise that it
may be well with thee and thou mayest live
long on the earth. And ye “fathers, provoke
not your children to wrath, but bring them
up in the nurture and admonition of the
Lord.” I consider the foregoing very ap-
propriate in the lesson of mother’s work.
Parents should exercise proper control over
the child.	And in order that we mothers
may find out better the way to properly
control our children, I wil endeavor to bring
out a few points. Why should the parent
control the child? Why not let him follow
his own inclination? I think we can all
readily see what kind of a household that
would be; instead of the home being one of
peace and order that it should be, just the
opposite would be the result, Secondly:
that proper ends may be accomplished with
the least effort. The third reason, for the
sake of character development, which is a
very good reason; for if a child is left to
grow up in this world where there is so
much sin without some one to watch and
guard him and point out to him both the
good and the evil, and whenever the least
tendency toward evil is shown, to check it
at once; he is apt to develop much more of
the evil than the good. 
	One of the first lessons to the child should
be that of prompt and willing obedience to
parents. And the very best way to obtain
this result, is never to require or ask a
child to do anything that is beyond its cap
acity; and we should consider all the cir-
cumstances surrounding it. And then after
the requirement is made, always see to it
that the child obeys the request. Now in
this connection a great deal depends upon
how we speak to a child when we ask him
to do anything. If we speak in a command-
ing or harsh tone of voice, and at the same
time call him lazy or something similar it
is no more than natural that the child rebels
and refuses to obey. While on the other
hand if he is spoken to in a gentle tone of
voice, and at the same time calling him by
some pet name, he will almost invariably
jump up and run to do the mother’s bid-
ding. And let me say to you mothers,when
your child does this, never forget to repay
him with a smile, a gentle caress and a
pleasant thank you.

[Column 2]
	Parents should get the child’s confidence.
This is very true, and a very improtant fac-
tor in helping to guide the child right.
Mothers should encourage their children in
telling about the little incidents that hap-
pen to them when out of her company.	I
have seen mothers when their little boy or
girl has come full of excitement about
something that has happened; instead of
that mother listening and taking a lively
interest in both the joys and sorrows of what
the child has to relate, she will possibly give
him or her a push, and say “Oh dont both-
er me, I dont care anything about that.” A
child treated in this way a few times soon
becomes reticent and don’t bother to tell
mother of the little troubles of everyday life,
and in that way the mother loses her op-
portunity of giving her counsel when it
would be of the most benefit. And as the
girl and boy grow older instead of making
mother the confidential friend and advisor
that she should be, their confidence is placed
somewhere else, and in some instances the
counsel they receive from others, instead of
leading them right has just the opposite
effect.
	There is another view of thls subject. A
parent’s every action should be such that
the children will have the utmost cofid-
dence in them. I consider the practice that
some parents indulge in of deceiving their
children and making promises to them that
they never intend to fulfill the worst kind of
discipline. Parents should be very careful
about making promises to their children;
they should consider all the circumstances;
and then, after the promise is given, always
see that it is fulfilled: unless it is impossible
for reasons that the child himself can under-
stand. While on the other hand a parent
that is continually making and breaking
promises soon loses the confidence of the
children and as a consequence the power of
control is weakened. In a family we find
different characteristics in each child and
for that reason no special rule can be laid
down; different methods may be necessary
for the training of each child. Therefore,
how necessary that parents should do all in
their power to gain that knowledge necess-
ary to rear their children, so that they may
become noble men and women. And how
thankful we should be that we are so situa-
ted that we can avail ourselves of good
teachers for our children. Our brethren saw
the necessity of this; therefore the different
organizations in the church for the benefit
of the young. All churches have the Sunday
School but that is not sufficient so in ad-
dition to our Sunday School we have the
Primary and Religion classes and Improve-
ment Associations. If a child is sent regu-
larly to these different organizations as they
get old enough, and they learn the lessons
there assigned to them, there is not much
danger of their going very wrong.	But
some parents say I can’t get my children to
go, they will go to Sunday School occasion-
ally and quit that altogether when they are
sixteen or thereabouts. What’s the matter?
well there are different reasons; but do you
know that I think that the greatest fault lies
with the parents. Sometimes they are kept


[Column 1]
at home for some trifling thing, and they
lose their interest; and sometimes they
have lessons assigned them, and instead of
the mother helping her boy or girl in
preparing that lesson If it should be a little
difficult, they will perhaps not give them
the necessary time in which to prepare the
same. And as we all know it sometimes
takes a very little thing to discourage a
child. But if they once get out of the habit
of going, Oh, how hard it is to get them
started again. So for that reason, we should
be on guard and when any inclination is
shown of not wanting to attend meetings,
use every endeavor to overcome their objec-
tions. I dont believe in forcing a boy or
girl to meeting or threatening them with
punishment if they don’t go, but kindly
show them the good that they will derive
from attending. Now while we are on the
subject of good teachers, I would like to say
a few words in favor of sending our boys
and girls to the Church schools, for I know
as well as I want to, that it is one of the
greatest of all helps to parents in making
good Latter-day Saints of their children.
When boys and girls are about sixteen or
eighteen we all know that it is about the
hardest time for the parents to get them to
attend to their religious duties; but if we
place them in a Church school about that
time and keep them there for a few years,
and at the same time give them the proper
example and training at home, I think that-
in ninety cases out of a hundred they will
come out good Latter-day Saints, besides
being prepared in other ways for the battle
of life.
	Parents should be united in the govern-
ment of the child. I think we will all agree
on that, for it would certainly be an uphill
business in training any child where the
parents were not united in their methods of
government. One parent should never in-
terfere with the other while the child is be-
ing corrected or punished, but if you feel
that the correction or punishment is unjust,
wait until the child is out of hearing before
finding fault in any way; and then try to
harmonize ideas for the benefit of the child.
Parents that have the habit of finding fault
with each other before their children cannot
expect anything else but that they will
grow up quarrelsome with each other and
their playmates; and not only that, but they
lose the reverence and respect for their par-
ents that they should have. Another reas-
on why one parent should not interfere with
the other, is that it is apt to make the child
feel that he is being unjustly dealt with.
	The next question, what condition of
mind should the parent be in while admin-
stering punishment? The answer should
be, never punish in anger. I wonder how
many there are of us that follow that rule,
I dare say that none of us do it altogether.
But it is a true principle nevertheless.
Some of the best thinkers and writers tell
us that we should never whip a child while
angry. Now I should like to know how
many mothers would whip unless they were
angry. I think there are very few, but we
don’t like to acknowledge that we whipped
our child because we were angry. Oh no,
we say, it was because he had done some-
thing for which he deserved a thrashing.
But I would like to ask; does whipping do
any good anyway? We can all answer that
for ourselves, but I am decidedly of opinion
that it does more harm than good every time.
Then you might say, what are you going
to do to correct your child when he does

[Column 2]
wrong?, the answer is this. The home
should be as far as possible, natural, and of
such a nature, that the child himself will
feel that the correction is just. For instance,
if a child tells a falsehood, and it becomes
known to the rest of the family, he should
be made to feel that he has done that for
which he deserves the suspicion of the whole
family. All eyes shou'd be turned upon
him with a pitying distrust. Or if your little
boy whittles your furniture with his new
pocket-knife and you give him a slap for it
perhaps as soon as your back is turned he
will only do it again. But if you deprive him
of the use of his knife for a few days, he
will have time to realize the loss of it, and
he will not be very likely to repeat the
offense.
	I don’t think that any good ever came
from telling a little child; “The bad man
will get you if you don’t be good" or that
“There’s a big bear out there” or similar
expressions. In fact very bad effects follow
such practices. In the first place the child
is frightened, and is apt to grow to be of a
nervous disposition; but that is not the worst
of it. It will not be long before the child
finds out that he is being deceived, that the
mother to whom he has always looked as
being perfect has actually been telling a
falsehood. Mothers did you ever think of
it in that way before? did you ever stop to
realize that you were teaching your little
child the first lesson in deception. It is just
such practices and others that I have tried,
in this lecture to show the evil effects of, that
tend to weaken parental control. I have
already given you my opinion of whipping
children as a means of punishment and as
I said before, it not only does no good
but causes a feeling of resentment, and has
often been the means of causing children to
tell falsehoods; and what more could we ex-
pect than that a child who gets a whipping
every time it does wrong; naturally tries to
evade that kind of punishment, even if he
has to tell a falsehood to do so.
	I have [-]ndeavored in my weak way to
follow the subject of this lecture; and to
sum it all up. we find that the main points
to be remembered are. Unity of parents.
Kindness but not indulgence. Firmness but
not harshness. And above all let the ex-
ample be such that when our everyday life
is reflected in the actions of our children,
that they may bring joy and happiness to
us instead of sorrow and remorse. May
this be our happy lot is the sincere desire of
