MOTHERS’ WORK.
SOUTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Pre-natal life and hints to prospective
mothers.

	Lecture I.— The first great command, “Mul-
tiply and replenish the earth”
	(a) Necessity of faith in God as a guiding
star to expectant mother. (b) Urgent ne-
cessity for a knowledge of the sin and
danger of destroying pre-natal life. (c)
Danger of marking children greatly exag-
gerated, mothers should not permit their
thoughts to dwell on unpleasant and disa-
greeable things. (d) Duty of mothers to cul-


tivate the qualities they wish their children
to possess.

Lecture II.

	(a) Necessity of society, one’s proper com-
panionship for pregnant women. (b) Pro-
priety of going out during this period. (c)
Folly of false modesty. (d) Dress hygienic
and becoming. (e) No corsets or tight
bands. (f) Clothing suspended from the
shoulders. (g) Rubbing with oil to relieve
tension of abdominal muscles.

Lecture III.

	(a) Abundant exercise. (b) Daily walks.
(c) How to avoid constipation by correct
diet. (d) Plenty of fresh fruit and pure
water. (e) Abstain from tea, coffee, and
all drugs and stimulants, live according to
nature.

Lecture IV.—Heredity.

	(a) Grave responsibilities of parents. (b)
Injustice to children who are forced to in-
herit disease and sin. (c) Necessity of a
prayerful united effort on the part of parents
to overcome tendencies, whether physical,
moral or mental, that they may not be trans-
mitted to their children. (d) Rights of
children to be well born. 

Lecture V.—Care of Mother after confine-
ment.

	(a) She should insist on perfect ventilation
and scrupulous cleanliness. (b) Also abso-
lute quiet and freedom from care. (c) Mild
and simple diet of such a nature as will pre-
vent constipation. (d) Tea and coffee are
harmful in their effects. (e) No stimulants
unless ordered by a competent physician.
(e) No callers should be permitted.

Lecture VI.—Care of the Infant.

	(a) No water for the first bath. (b)
Thorough rubbing with oil applied with a
soft cloth followed by careful wiping. (c)
No food except the contents of the mother’s
breast and warm water which has been
previously boiled. (d) Don’t waken a child
to exhibit to visitors. (e) Avoid strong light,
tight bands and too much clothing. (f)
Also clothes unnecessarily long. (g) Give
frequent and thorough rubbing with the
hand, (h) Regular nursing is important.
	ALVIRA L. COX, President R.S.


The U. S. D. R. met May 16 at the home
of Mrs. George A. Smith. The rooms
were elaborately decorated with the Stars
and Stripes, Society colors, pictures and
the flags of nearly all the European coun-
tries. Regent Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney
Sears presided and after the usual prelimin-
aries Mrs. Sears read an entertaining sketch
of the life of Nathan Hale of revolutionary
fame. Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth followed
with a poem to his memory written by a
daughter of the Revolution Virginia Frayer
Bayle, Miss Wells gave the courtship of
this celebrated hero. There were present
as guests Mrs. Charlotte F. Richards, Mrs.
Lucy Smith Acomb and Mrs. Charles W.
Nibley. The meeting was very enjoyable
and after adjournment delicious refresh-
ments were served to all in a dainty fashion
and a social hour was made particularly
pleasant.


