		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.

Lesson VII.—Employment for Children.

	“From toil he wins his spirits light
	From busy day the peaceful might.”
								GRAY.
	(a) A busy life cannot well be otherwise
than cheerful, (b) Let the child assist his
parents in the home at a very early age and
help him to feel that his aid is necessary
and appreciated, (c) Cultivate a desire in
the child to work his way honestly and
bravely, (e) All labor that is honest is
honorable too. (f) Parents do wrong in
keeping their children too much sheltered
and enervated by parental indulgence.

Lesson VIII.—Amusements.

	(a) Have them adapted to both the ment-

[Column 2]
al and physical development of the child,
(b) Teach him to invent games and be will-
ing for him to invite other children in to
participate. (c) Do not let amusements in-
fringe upon the sacredness of the Sabbath
Day or upon the rights and property of
others, (d) Avoid excesses particularly in
dancing (Ref. Juvenile Instructor page 246,
Vol 37.

Lesson IX.—Politeness

	“Politeness is to do and say
	The kindest thing in the kindest way.”
	(a) Proper respect for the rights and
privileges of one another at home and
abroad. (b) Politeness is the result of good
sense and good nature. It is a pait of good
morals. (c) Levity of manner unbecoming,
(d) Americans are afflicted with pretension.
Let the Latter-day Saint mother seek to
eradicate the evil. (e) “A graceful be-
havior towards superiors, inferiors and
equals is a constant source of pleasure.”

Lesson X.—Make Home Attractive.

		“Let Love Abound,”
	(a) A gilded palace is not a home, it is
not a formal school of staid solemnity and
rigid discipline that constitutes a home. (b)
“’Tis there the twig is bent.” (c) Encour-
age music both vocal and instrumental. It
induces children to spend their evenings at
home. (d) Pictures of a proper character
have a refining influence. (e) Flower gar-
dens cultivated by both boys and girls.

Lesson XI.—Make Home Attractive. (con-
tinued).

	“You may break, you may shatter the vase if you
		will.
	But the scent of the roses will hang’round it still.”
	(a) Family devotions. No child can fail
to be impressed where all is sincerity. (b)
Good books are as necessary as good com-
pany. They are an evidence of culture. Let
them be adapted to the capacity of the
child. (c) Make a specialty of church
works. (d) Baneful effects of dime novels.
(Ref. Juvenile Instructor page 274-586,
Vol. 37).

Lesson XII.—Habits of Children

	“Habit in a child is at first like a spider web if
neglected it becomes a thread of twine next a cord
of rope finally a cable—then who can break it?”
	(a) Habit is a man’s best friend or worst
enemy. (b) All the virtues or vices, all the
actions of mind or body may be chained by
its despotic power. (c) The importance of
forming only good habits. (d) Bad habits
are broken only by perseverance and earnest
prayer. (e) The importance of mothers
watching the habits of her children from
earliest infancy, (e) Regularity in diet,
sleep, work, play etc.
	Emma S Smith, President; Sarah Driggs,
Mary J. K. West, Counselors; Della F.
Smith, Secretary; Janet M. Smith Treas-
urer.


Fort Madison, Ia., boasts having as one of
its most respected and patriotic citizens
Mrs. Rachel Albright, who is a grand-
daughter of Betsy Ross, who made the
first American flag. Mrs. Albright was
born in the home of her grandmother,
Betsy Ross, in Philadelphia, June 16, 1812
and was brought up under Mrs. Ross’ care.
She there learned the art of making flags
at her grandmother’s knee, and Mrs. Al-
bright still carries on this work.


