A PLEASANT PARTY.

One of the most congenial meetings of
dear friends and renewing of acquaintances
was at a party given by Dr. Margaret C.
Roberts in the spacious parlors of her new
home on C. street in this city, Thursday
May 5, at 2. p. m. It was in every respect
a restful gathering, as we remember it was
called a Kensington, but only a few of the
very industrious ladies had work in their
hands. The rest of us were only talking
to and admiring and complimenting each
other and the hostess, who had made it
possible for us to have this rare opportun-
ity under such favorable circumstances.
About fifty ladies were invited, and per.
haps forty were present. The decorations
were roses, carnations and lilacs, and the
entire suite of rooms were simply beautiful;
The musical part of the entertainment was
delightful to all lovers of good singing.
Mrs Leslie W. Snow sang in her most
charming way “Tell Me” and “For All
Eternity,’’ afterwards, Mrs. Maggie Freeze
Bassett,one of our favorite singers rendered
in a sweet voice “My Rose Marie,’’ and
“The Old Man’s Dream.” Miss Larson
a very popular soloist, gave in her clear
melodious voice “O, Dry Those Tears,”
“Speak Love”“Cavellieria Rusticana” and
Jenny Lind’s Swedish song by which she
gained such popularity. The music added
greatly to the enjoyment of the afternoon.
Dainty refreshments were served on small
tables the ladies being congenially seated


though nearly all were friends of long
standing, and the social intercourse was the
real charm of the gathering, and over the
teacup or over the chocolate it is expected
ladies express their views freely. However
one need only say the entire affair including
conversation, music, vocal and instrumental
tea and service and all the accompaniments
from going inside the door to the leave tak-
ing “speed the parting guest,” was an
afternoon to be remembered for years after-
wards, and the writer often thinks serious-
ly in these gatherings of our sisters, shall
we who are here today all ever meet again?
Let us hope however, that we who assem-
bled at the Doctor’s party may meet again
as happily as on that day. It seems formal
to add that common-place saying;

‘‘Blest be that spot, where cheerfnl guests retire,
To pause from toil around the evening fire
Blest that abode where want and pain repair,
And every stranger finds a ready chair.”


