BIRTHDAY GATHERING.

The nineteenth of April ult., was the
81st anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Margaret Pierce Young, wife of President
Brigham Young, and herself a pioneer of
1847, coming into the valley in the famous
company that followed the pioneers in May
1847, and located the “Old Fort” on Pio-
neer Square. Her father and mother, Bro-
ther and Sister Pierce, also brought with
them in company with their daughter Mar-
garet, Sister Eliza R. Snow, companion for
Sister Margaret, her own sister Mary hav-
ing died in Winter Quarters.
Margaret P. Young was born in and
reared in Chester Co., Penn, of Quaker par-
entage and still retains much of that native
simplicity of manner and speech always no-
ticable and pleasing. Aunt Margaret as
she is familiarly called by those who know
her intimately, is still active in mind and
body, and is fond of company and of society
and able to do her own cooking and enjoys
household employments. She is also a work-
er in the Salt Lake Temple.
The evening of her birthday, about forty
or fifty guests, relatives and friends assem-
bled at the residence of her son, Elder B.
Morris Young (by invitation), Sister Young
has resided, since leaving the famous “Lion
House” where she spent most of her life,
in the house with her son; the rooms were
all opened for the occasion and prettily dec-
orated with flowers and plants. Among the
guests were President Joseph F. Smith, Dr.
Seymour B. Young, President Frank Y.
Taylor, Bishop Millen C. Attwood, Patri-
arch McGee, Elders Louis Kelch, George
Crismon and Counselor Noah S. Pond of
Pocatello Stake and other brethren. Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith of the general
Relief Society, Sisters Julina L. and Edna
L. Smith Amelia F. and Lizzie Riter
Young, Annie Taylor Hyde and several
other sisters, old friends and true, and many
other women. There was some good music
interspersed with conversation which was
mostly of a reminiscent character, old times
and doings of other days.
Sister Margaret was the recipient of a
number of presents and of many warm con-
gratulations and good wishes for years to
come. The feeling of genuine hospitality
was delightful and the coming together of
old friends is always a sort af inspiration
and the hours flew swiftly by. The refresh-
ments prepared and served by Sister Ar-
meda S. Young were delicious, and the


geniality of spirit that characterized the
whole affair was restful and most enjoyable.
The writer on her own account and as ed-
itor of this little paper adds her congratula-
tions and good wishes, having known Aunt
Margaret intimately for many long years
and in joy and in sorrow has always found
her the same loyal friend.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
The April conference of the General Re-
lief Society was held in the Assembly Hall,
in this city, Saturday, April 2, meetings
commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as
usual. The stand was prettily decorated
with plants and the elegant Relief Society
banner hung on the organ looked very ap-
propriate.
President Bathsheba W. Smith and all
the general officers and several members of
the General Board were on the platform.
President B. W. Smith presiding.
Conference opened with the hymn: “How
firm a foundation.” etc. Mrs. Maggie C.
Hull, leading, Miss Lottie Owen, assist-
ing, Mrs. Maria Francis, accompanist.
Prayer by the secretary, Sister E. B. Wells,
Singing, “Guide us, O, Thou Great Je-
hovah.”
President B. W. Smith addressed the sis-
ters.
“My dear sisters, I greet you with a
happy greeting, this is a fine looking con-
gregation, I love the Relief Society and I
pray the Lord to direct our efforts in the
labor of love in which we are engaged,
laboring for the sick, the poor and the
needy, and may we lay up treasures in
heaven, and none ever step aside from the
path of truth and righteousness. I pray
the Lord to direct every word that shall be
spoken. We will have to make our speech-
es short, and we must condense our
thoughts. I believe in short speeches and
short prayers. May the Spirit of the Lord
be in this assembly. Amen ”
President Rebecca Rawlins Benson
stake: In our stake the poor have been
especially well looked after in our wards the
past winter. The Mother’s work has been
a great help in bringing out many. We
sent three nurses to the last nurse class, and
that has only made us feel that we
need more The doctors found them very
efficient helps. The more we do the more
we find to do.
President Susannah P. Booth, Box Elder
Stake: We are working in love and union.
We number nineteen branches. The
president at Park Valley died this last
winter. We have not yet started to visit in
the outside settlements, but intend starting
as soon as the weather will permit. We
have been called upon to make 150 yards
of carpet for the Logan Temple, also our
president of Box Elder Stake wants us to
make 150 yards for our Tabernacle in
Brigham City. We joined with the Y. L. N.
M. I. A. to buy the carpet for the Taber-
nacle. Mothers cannot always leave their
little folks to go to meeting, and we sym-
thize with the mothers who cannot get to
the meetings.
President Mary A. Sorenson, Emery
Stake: We have a noble band of workers.
We have started the mothers work. We sent
our outline to be approved and have had it
back again and scattered copies among the
sisters, and the Y. L. M. I. A. are helping
their mothers. If we find aged sisters who
cannot attend the meetings we take the

[Column 2]
meetings to them. We sent two nurses to 
the class in Salt Lake and wished we could
do more. The sisters are doing much good
in charity with their cash and merchan-
dise, and we are working in union. The
Bishops meet with us and the Presidency
of the Stake also.
Counselor Elizabeth S. Critchlow, Hy-
rum Stake: We have visited all our
branches, and we hold officers’ meetings
monthly; have not started our Mothers’
work, but have had our outline printed, it
will bring in a great many young moth-
ers. We have our wheat stored in a good
place. Sometimes the meetings are taken
to the homes of the sisters who cannot at-
tend, and it seems to do good.
President Artemissia S. Seegmiller,Kanab
Stake: Our stake is fully organized, and
all are doing good work. We are just
getting started in the Mother’s work. Our
young mothers cannot attend meetings
much during the school year, and the
young people generally are occupied with
Mutual Improvement and Sunday school
work. We are not storing grain as we do
not raise in that locality what we consume.
May the Lord give us the spirit of this
work.
President Marinda Bateman, Jordan
Stake: We are doing all we can in taking
care of the poor and the sick and in stor-
ing grain, and we sent three competent
nurses to be trained, and we are anxious to
have quite a number more. We are trying
to do every duty and keep pace with others
in the work.
Sister Hull and Sister Burton sang a
duet which was very beautiful.
President Annie S. Musser, Liberty
Stake, felt weak in her new position, she
had called two meetings, had worked with
the Y. L M. I A. for the last five years,
but her sympathies had always been called
out to the poor. She felt to do the best she
could, relying upon the Lord in the per-
formance of her duties.
President Williamina Erickson, North
Sanpete Stake; We are trying to fulfill all
requirements, and I am happy to say that
the young sisters are much interested in
the Mother’s work; our older sisters are
laboring and doing all they can for the
sick, they are doing a noble work in this
direction. We visit through the stake once
a year, and we are all united.
Counselor Jane Holt, Davis Stake: We
have commenced the Mother’s work, and
are doing all we can in other directions in
storing wheat and in caring for those who
need assistance. We have not done much
visiting of late on account of the sickness of
Brother Grant. We hope to be diligent
and faithful in all things.
President Louisa B. Benson, Oneida
Stake: The Stake Board and workers are
united with each other. Our attendance
has improved since we have had the Moth-
er’s work, and the work has been beneficial.
We have some grain stored, and we are
contributing towards the Woman’s Build-
ing, and the sisters are all anxious and try-
ing io enlarge the subscription for the EX-
PONENT. We have it in each ward in our
meetings, on our tables, so that the sisters
can get all the instruction possible.
President Elizabeth DeLong, Panguitch
Stake: We are working in perfect har-
mony, our branches are fully organized,
but we have long distances to travel and
cannot visit any in the winter, it is so very
cold and dangerous even for men. Our
main object is charity and Mother’s work


[column 1]
secondary, but we are interested in it. We
read from the Church works and the EX-
PONENT in our meetings, and try to carry
out the instructions given for our benefit.
	Sister Margaret Hull then favored the
audience with a solo beautifully rendered,
“Sometime, Somewhere.”
	President Alvira L. Cox was especially
pleased to hear the sweet music of the
singers of Zion. Reported the stake all in
good running order. Hold conferences
once in three months. It is very interesting
to hear the uniformity of the reports given
here. Mother’s work has been the means
of bringing out many young sisters. In
our stake some branches are building more
granaries, for our granaries are full to over-
flowing. The presidents are always at
meetings unless detained by sickness.
	Mary Swindle, secretary Monroe Stake:
We have a good band of sisters. Ours is a
large stake, nineteen branches. We al-
ways visit once a year. Our meetings are
very well attended. We have testimonies
first and then the lectures on Mother’s
work. We have quite a large quantity of
wheat and considerable money on hand to
buy more.
	Sister Julina L. Smith addressed the sis-
ters briefly, had been called upon unex-
pectedly. Mentioned her pleasure in hear-
ing the good reports from far away stakes,
realized the sisters were faithful and dili-
gent, wished there was time to hear from
all, felt we were greatly blest in this good-
ly land.
	Sister Margaret Salmon reported for Sum-
mit Stake. Stated that the president, Ce-
lestia Y. Pack her board and assistants made
a point of going around visiting all branches,
they worked in perfect harmony. In the
Mother’s work they had taken up literary
subjects and lectures on the Women of the
Bible. We had a nurse class taught in our
stake, and have a number of very efficient
nurses.
	Counselor Susie M. Wilson, Teton Stake:
We endeavor to visit our branches twice a
year, and the sisters are united and are
greatly blessed in their labors; we have not
a large amount of grain on hand; our stake
is somewhat new, but we are trying to
serve the Lord, asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all present.
	President Annie R. Duke, Wasatch Stake:
Our sisters are united and all the branches
are in good working order, our Mother’s
work is splendid, many young sisters are
joining; still our main work is looking af-
ter the sick and the needy; we have con-
siderable grain stored, the Lord has abun-
dantly blest us, we visit our stake twice a
year.
	Sister Leah Blackburn, Wayne Stake,
made a good report, especially in regard to
the grain on hand, and said they visited
among the sick and needy.
	President Sarah Tyson, Woodruff Stake:
This was her first report, the stake had
been reorganized last summer; she had
visited all around since, traveled over six
hundred miles but found them all in good
order; she had been traveling two nights to
come to the conference; was pleased to be
present; had not yet begun Mother’s work,
but they were ready to do so.
	Congregation sang, “Zion stands on hills
surrounded,” dismissed with prayer by
President Emma S. Woodruff. Meeting
adjourned until 2 p. m.
_______

	Afternoon session: President B. W.
Smith presiding. Singing by members of

[column 2]
the Temple choir, Prof C. J. Thomas lead-
ing, duet “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing.” Prayer by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, sing-
ing “Sometime, Somewhere,” Sister Maria
B. Winder and Sister Lottie Owen.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde was the
first speaker. It is quite an inspiring sight
to see so many present, and I am sure that
it will be an inspiration to our president to
have so many gathered together, we have
been trying to get a little closer together
this time, by giving a luncheon today, try
to love each other more and become better
acquainted with one another, we should
criticize ourselves, and try to improve, have
a system and work and plan ahead. The
Lord will ask us to give an account of the
way in which we train our children. This
planning and arranging beforehand will
help us to progress, and we must not stand
still. Sister Hyde asked the blessing of
the Lord upon all and peace, love and con-
tentment to abide with us.
	Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang in her
sweet voice “Ave Maria,” accompanied by
Mrs. Kate Romney Stewart, the music was
very uplifting.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, after
speaking of her desire to get nearer to the
sisters, she related the story of the devotion
of a young girl and of the amphitheatre at
Rome when so many of the saints were
thrown to the hungry wild beasts to be torn
in pieces, how she was entreated by her
father, how he plead with her to give up
her faith that she might be spared to him,
he was old and feeble and gray-headed, and
he needed her, and after his persuading and
beseeching her, she said, “Yes, she could
give it up but the spirit within her could
not.” It is the spirit within us that helps
us to be diligent and faithful and zealous
in the Lord’s work. Charity, what a great
word it is, how much it conveys to us all,
who are engaged in the Relief Society
work; spoke of a conversation she had recent-
ly with a strange lady about our organiza-
tions and how astonished she was to learn
what we were doing. Sister Dusenberry
believed in strewing flowers in the pathway
of our workers, and not waiting until they
are dead to do them honor, their lives may
be barren of pleasure, let us show our ap-
preciation while they still live.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams said this was
a magnificent audience; we are all working
for our salvation in the heavenly kingdom,
striving to be true mothers and true wives.
The Ave Maria that Sister Pugsley sang
appeals to me; how many of us have sent
up that prayer to our Heavenly Father.
“Humility is one of the chief things to
help us to obtain favor and blessings;” she
also dwelt upon unity, her prayers were
constantly for the Relief Society, for our
Father in heaven to direct us by His Holy
Spirit to do right.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox felt if we were
to separate here and go to our homes, we
had heard so much it would be a feast; so
many songs that had been uplifting to our
spirits, so much in the music, and in the
words; this great audience is a witness of
the interest in this Relief Society work.
The maternal instinct is developed by the
work we have undertaken in the Society,
even in those who have not children of
their own, and those who are denied this
world's good, the rich poor, and the poor
rich. Our Father does not give us these
longings, not to have them realized, “Some-
time, Somewhere.” The practical work of
the Society will so extend that many more

[column 3]
will feel its benefits. Referred to a society
where they made plain clothes for children,
thought it a very useful thing, many
mothers would be glad to buy good plain
clothing, when they could not have time to
do the needle work.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little felt it a pleasure
to meet and shake hands with those who
came twice a year to the general assem-
blies; “The veterans who belonged to the
generation that preceded us have made such
untold sacrifices and practiced such self-
denial for their religion that their descend-
ants should have some of it in them,” re-
lated some striking incidents of personal
self-sacrifice and spoke of attending a fu-
neral recently of a sister who had presided
over a society 35 years and in all that time
had never refused a call made upon her.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon loved the Re-
lief Society and had always loved it, was
proud to think of the great work that had
been accomplished, and the growth of the
organization now numbering something like
33,000. “I am glad that my mother has
been engaged in this great charity,” related
the story of a Captain’s widow and two
little children, who was sick with consump-
tion the Relief Society cared for her and at
her death took care of the children, what a
comfort it was to the dying woman to know
they would be provided for. Sister Cannon
spoke of the Mothers’ Congress here some
years ago and the woman who came ex-
pressly to teach patriotism to our children;
but found there was no occasion whatever
for her teaching, the speaker felt that in
the Mother’s Work we should teach patrio-
tism and good citizenship, it was always in-
teresting to the little ones to talk of the flag,
its thirteen stripes and forty-five stars.
	Sister Cannon also spoke of the nurse
class felt it to be an important step in the
right direction.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne said it is
always a pleasure to commune with the
saints, dwelt upon charity and the need we
have to exercise it, thought we should drop
our sorrows and cease repining, we must be
more companionable to our children, we
have to contend with the spirit of darkness;
we should be stronger than any other wo-
men, because our husbands have to go
away upon missions and we need more
strength than others. We must save our
strength so we can give some of it in our
Relief Society to help the work. Sister
Horne spoke upon the home and what it
should mean to our children.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth thought
we as mothers did not appreciate the advan-
tages of the age in which we are living.
The mother begins the process of training
with the infant in her arms she fills her
children with the principle of love; as mem-
bers of the Relief Society, we have every
opportunity to gain the confidence and love
of our sisters. I pray that we may go on
in this way and instruct our children not
only in the Gospel, but in patriotism; we
know we are descended from the makers of
this great union, and our boys were among
the finest soldiers in the Phillipines, and we
have every reason to be proud of their rec-
ord, let us do our duty faithfully to our
families, and our Relief Society.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, spoke of the re-
ports given in the morning, how systematic
and business-like they were made; thought
our sisters showed their ability; spoke of re-
porting the Relief Society at the Nation’s
capital, referred to the woman who came
here to teach mothers and was now the


[Column 1]
prime mover in the Smoot case; related the 
story of the woman who made great pre-
paration for a distinguished guest and re-
fused to help those, who came to her dur-
ing the day because of expecting this great 
man but when she was worn out with work 
and waiting and had retired for the night, 
he visited her and she asked him, why he 
did not come as he had said he would, and 
he answered, that he had visited her three 
times during the day and each time had 
been turned away; the good we can do for 
others is the greatest good we can do; she 
thought the way to make our children love 
us is to let them help us. 
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie said she had been 
asked to speak of the nurse class, she felt it 
had been a great success this last year and 
hoped it would accomplish even more this 
year, and that the Presidents of Stakes will 
try to get good, virtuous, high-minded young 
women to take the nurse course of training; 
said you all remember Aunt Zina how 
night after night and day after day she 
visited the sick and the dying and brought 
comfort into hundreds of homes. Let us 
emulate her example and be comforters and 
do good as she did, and let us learn how to 
do these things well. 
President Jane S. Richards felt we had 
enjoyed a great feast here today, it does me 
a world of good to think we can meet and 
give each other a greeting; spoke beauti-
fully of visiting the humble, some are not 
so well off in this world's goods, but that 
don't need to make any difference, try and 
hunt up those that no one else finds and 
seek to do them good even if they do not 
belong to the church. "I know a woman 
who goes to see every one that is sick and 
poor and don't get a chance to go to meet-
ings and she hires a carriage and takes them 
out riding; she don't go visiting and take 
tea with her neighbors, but she does do 
good to those in need; Sister Richards spoke 
of President Young coming in once when 
she was sick, had been sick over a year and 
what comfort the visit gave her; there was 
an old couple she always sent for twice a 
year to her home and they always had a 
little meeting. Afterwards spoke of the work 
of the Society in her own stake and the good 
feeling that existed there and closed by say-
ing, "May we live faithful and not be 
afraid to go home when we are called is my 
prayer." 
Sister E. B. Wells felt more then delight-
ed to see such a magnificent congregation, 
said it is a compliment to our President her 
associates and to the organization itself. 
Some of the sisters have been detained at 
home by sickness, Sister Horne has been 
ill all winter, and Sister Susan Grant one 
of our best Presidents who should have 
spoken here today, has a very sick son. 
Speaking of doing good to each other made 
her think of the love feast given in Kirtland 
by Bishop N. K. Whitney and his wife 
when they invited all the poor and lame 
and afflicted to the feast and the Prophet 
Joseph Smith came and sat at the table with 
them and partook of the hospitality extend-
ed to them, and he blest and comforted them 
greatly. 
President Jos. F. Smith was invited to 
come to this conference but was too busy,
—the great pressure of business prevent-
ed him. It is a great thing to preside over 
the Relief Society, the sun never sets on the 
Relief Society it extends around the world. 
Our President wishes me to present the 
names of the general officers to be voted up-
on here. 

[Column 2]
The secretary presented them and they 
were sustained unanimously. 
Sister E. J. Stevenson said, "I love this 
work I have been greatly interested today 
in the excellent things we have heard, the 
Lord bless you my sisters and may His 
spirit be with you all. If I had twelve 
daughters I would want every one of them 
to take the course in nursing. May peace 
and union and charity dwell among you is 
my prayer. 
President B. W. Smith, made a few clos-
ing remarks hoped all had time enough 
to talk, was glad and rejoiced to see so 
many at the conference; blest all with peace 
and invoked the blessing of the Lord upon 
the congregation. 
Singing, "Praise God from whom all 
blessings flow" dismissed with prayer by 
Sister Priscilla Jennings. Conference ad-
journed for six months. 
E. B. WELLS, General Secretary. 
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, 
Secretary pro tem.


