OUR LITTLE PAPER.

This number of the paper completes the
thirty-second volume of the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, and we cannot but congratulate
the women of Utah in having had a voice
in the press of this Western land so many
years. It is the oldest woman’s paper in
the West and has done good service for the
Rocky Mountain region in standing for po-
litical equality, and the higher education of
women, as well as for her moral, social and
industrial advancement; not only these, but
for the principles of truth and righteous-
ness, as contained in the Blble, also in the
Book of Mormon, and the revelations given
in this last dispensation through the Proph-
et Joseph Smith and other inspired men.
The paper has been a potent factor in
helping forward the organizations of women
in many lines; formerly it was the only
paper to stand for the asoociations, and in
looking over the early numbers one finds
much of interest pertaining not only to the
Relief Society, the Retrenchment Associa-
tion, the Primary, the Kindergarten, the
Silk Association, the Deseret Hospital, the
Woman’s Cooperative Store, and so on; and
it contains almost a complete history of
woman’s work in Utah, and matters per-
taining thereto.
It has done good educational work for
the people young and old; some of our best
writers today made their first appearance in
the columns of the Woman’s Exponent.
Although we have many other papers taking
up the different subjects in special lines, yet
the Woman's Exponent is as much needed
as ever it was, for where we only had a few
people to read, we now have many, and
a great variety is needed to meet the de-
mand. And while we may acknowledge
that it is not all that we could desire it to
be, let us try to make it better and more ac-
ceptable by giving it substantial support.
That is exactly what is needed.
If the sisters in the Relief Society would
urge the members everywhere to take the
paper and pay for it, there would soon be a
very radical change in its appearance and
the regularity of issues each month.
Much space has been taken in publishing
the Outlines of Lectures since the com-
mencement of the mother’s work in the
society and other matters have been left
out, but as much care as possible has been
taken by the editor in adjusting copy satis-
factorily. We have not been able to give as
much space for reports as heretofore,but hope
we can do more in the future. And here we


may perhaps explain that it is impossible
to publish even brief reports of all the Stake
conferences held during the year. In the
future we shall be obliged to condense re-
ports of meetings more than ever before
because we have more Stakes of Zion, more
missions, more meetings; and we must
necessarily have a few other things to make
variety.


