EDITORIAL NOTES.

We are happy to be able to state that our
beloved mother in Israel, Sister M. Isabella
Horne, is very much improved in health,
and we hope and trust will soon be well
enough to visit among the sisters and speak
in the Relief Society conferences of the new
stakes of Zion recently organized, because
of the division of the Salt Lake Stake over
which she presided more than a quarter of
a century.
Since the April conference the General
Board and missionary sisters have visited
several Stake Conferences of the Relief
Society. Blackfoot (a new stake) was vis-
ted by Emily S Richards and Priscilla
Smith; Cache and Hyrum Stakes by Mary
Alice Lambert and Elizabeth J. Stevenson;
Benson and Oneida by Sarah Jenne Cannon
and Rebecca E. Little; Beaver by Sophia
T. Nuttall and Elizabeth S. Wilcox; Malad
Stake and Washakie by Elizabeth J. Steven-
son; Jordan by Phebe Y. Beatie and Carrie
S. Thomas; Box Elder by Mary Alice Lam-
bert; Emery, Elizabeth J. Stevenson and
Carrie S. Thomas; Taylor and Alberta in
Canada, by Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Louise L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY PARTY BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	A very pleaaant party was given in the
parlors of the Bee Hive House (the official
residence of the President of the Church) in
honor of the 82nd anniversary of the birth-
day of the General President of the Relief
Society, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. The
arrangements of the affair as we understand
were in the hands of her nieces, and some
of the Temple sisters. The decorations
were mostly carnations and roses, of these
82 carnations were given by the sisters as-
sociated with her as their President in the
Temple; other ladies gave a variety of
beautiful flowers and a number of other
presents, useful and ornamental.
	Sister Smith is very widely known and
dearly loved, she is a pioneer woman in ex-
perience and practical economy in all the
departments of home life. In carding, spin-
ning, dyeing and weaving in early days
here, she was an adept, and in cutting and
making all household wearing apparel,
table and bed linen, carpets, etc.—no one
surpassed her in skill and ingenuity as far as
we know. In the organizations among wo-
men old and young she has had an active
part and though both temporal and spirit-
ual in character has maintained an even bal-
ance, and yet has always been a good equal
suffragist. Like her illustrious husband,
who was one of the foremost men of his
time, she believed in equal rights, and in
doing things, more than in talking about
doing things.
	The day was not auspicious so far as the
weather for it rained, rained, rained, and
literally poured at last, reminding one of
Longfellow’s Rainy Day:

[Column 2]
“The day is cold and dark and dreary,
It rains and the wind is never weary,
Thy fate is the common fate of all;
Into each life some rain must fall,
Some days must be dark and dreary.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, the honored
guest, looked like a queen among her
“maids of honor," ladies of the court, and
the sisters vied with each other in bestow-
ing honor on one so worthy, as this venerable
woman of more than four-score years, whose
countenance beamed with love and good-
will towards all.
	The conversation was general and there
were some charming musical selections
given on the piano by Miss Roberts—Miss
May Merrill, grandaughter of the guest of
honor gave a humorous recitation “Wo-
man’s Rights.” Miss Priscilla Smith also
recited one of a similar style.
	Dainty refreshments were served by
young girls and the President Joseph F.
Smith and his Counselors John R. Winder
and Anthon H. Lund came in for an hour
or so and partook of the repast and partici-
pated in the social conversation. President
Winder pronounced the blessing.
	The hearty congratulations, good wishes
and blessings Sister Smith received during
the afternoon, and the love expresed for her
amounted to an ovation rarely given to any
one, and it was all genuine in tone and sen-
timent, truly she deserves it all and far more.
Her long life has been one of devotion to
duty and full of integrity to the Gospel and
the cause of Zion. May she live yet many
years to enjoy the love and friendship of
those among whom she has labored so long,
and to see Zion redeemed, and the dearest
wishes of her heart realized, and may her
life grow brighter as time goes on, for she
has earned rich blessings.
“Who soweth good seed shall surely reap;
The year grows rich as it groweth old;
And life’s latest sands are its sands of gold.”


