[Vol4 | September 1917 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Another Government loan, this time for $5,000,000,000, is to be asked from the American people in September or October. The drouth of 1917, following a long, hard winter, has had a damaging effect on crops in the United States, especially on grain. German insurance companies have been forbidden to do business in the United States for the period of the war, as a precaution against American government secrets reaching the kaiser. Two thousand aeroplanes, to be built in the United States during the next twelvemonth, are expected to be an important factor in deciding the war against Germany. The draft for drawing American troops for compulsory service was held on July 20. It is anticipated that thereunder an army of at least 5,000,000 men, if necessary, may be obtained in a short time. Automobile accidents have shown a considerable increase in number in Utah during July, chiefly the result of reckless driving, and this not always on the part of the victims. An embargo on the shipment of practically everything except cotton that can be of value to the enemy governments has been declared by President Wilson, under the new law. The Jews in Russia are to be given equal rights with other citizens there, by the new government, when the latter gets into real control of the situation. The European war developed much severe fighting on the western battle front during July, with little change in the relative positions of the combatants. The German Chancellor, Von Bethmann-Hollweg, who termed the treaty with Belgium merely a "scrap of paper," resigned in July because of the peace agitation against him; but his successor, Dr. Michaelis, is as much of a war advocate as was the retired premier. 
 Two American wives of German war prisoners confine d at Fort Douglas, I tali. Mrs. I. von Elpens and Mrs. Eleanor Geb hard, are in Salt Lake City, where they may visit their husbands occasionally. Prohibition went into effect in Utah on August 1. with practically little change in the outward aspect of affairs further than of larger commendable cities. disappearance of drunks" on the streets Siam is the last of the nations to recognize a state of war with Germany. Now the nations are all in. in one form or another, even to those ostensibly remaining neutral, who suffer more than some of the active war participant 3. Great Britain has an ample food supply for the present year, according to official announcement, notwithstanding' the German submarine campaign. The supply for 1918. owing to crop shortage, now is the cause of worry. Tin-: Belgian war commission to the United States, which made a trip to the Pacific coast in July and stopped at Salt Lake City enroute homeward, was both pleased and encouraged by the evidences of practical friendship received in America. Food control in the United States, by the national government, is now to be demonstrated as to its practicability. The first step is a new army of government officials and employes to be paid by the people who remain in the fast-depleting ranks of the producers. American troopships crossing to France were attacked by a fleet of seven German submarines, and some of the vessels narrowly escaped destruction. Six of the submarines were destroyed and the seventh disappeared. The Russian czar was accused of favoring a separate peace with Germany. The new Russian government, by its factionalism, seems to favor the transfer of a large portion of Russia to German domination. Labor strikes, where the strikers resort to violence and require control by military force, have had a serious development in Arizona, Washington. California, Montana, and other States in the United States, in July: coming at a time of war, they indicate a regrettable lack of patriotism among their promoters. CURRENT TOPICS. 519 Women in the British army, as carpenters, chauffeurs, and mechanicians generally, are being utilized to such an extent that many thousands of men thereby are released for active duty on the firing line. Suffragist pickets at the White House in Washington were sentenced in July to sixty days in jail, although they had not created any real disturbance. The "severity of the punishment was such an outrage that President Wilson was impelled to pardon the sixteen women thus sentenced. At Ogden. Utah, the county farm board advocated the training of the city school teachers there, by giving them six weeks of real farming, under pay, for the practical benefit of the pupils. The teachers objected, and there will be no such training. Germany may be short of food, as alleged by her antagonists, but the almost overwhelming defeat of the Russians by the Teutons in the last week of July shows that Germany is not yet on the verge of collapse or defeat, and that the war is likely to go on a long time yet. Race riots at East St. Louis. 111., in the early part of July resulted in the death of a considerable number of persons, both of negroes and white people. The action of both men and women in the white mob was quite as brutal as anything of that kind charged against the negroes. Many American troops, particularly those from the Pacific States, have been sent over the Pacific Ocean to Honolulu, which probably means that ultimately they will reach the fighting line on the Egyptian front, that is. in battle with the Turks in Syria. A soldier's pride. Mrs. Hazel Rlauser Carer, donned an army suit and succeeded in accompanying her husband from Douglas. Arizona, to Prance, from where she was returned to the United States. The chief effect of her exploit was to have her husband reduced from a corporal to a private. Premier A. F. Kerensky was made dictator in Russia in the latter part of July, in the hope that he could restore order and unity there. The Muscovite revolution has developed the fact that, whatever may be the theories of the social democracy there, practical demonstration of the system show5; the weakness of "i-on nom: bell-wethers."