[Vol4 | September 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IV. SEPTEMBER, 1917. No. 9. SEPTEMBER TWENTY-FIRST, EIGHTEEN TWENTYTHREE. There is an old phrase which was often on the Losing One's lips of the Pilgrim Fathers, and Mothers  Self in Christ those stern non-conformists and religious Jesus, enthusiasts who trained themselves and their children in the school of self-repression, hard work and rigid spiritual discipline. It was the advice to "lose yourself in Christ Jesus!" To forget self and selfish pleasures, self-aggrandizement, while constantly seeking the welfare and happiness of others. The phrase lost much of its original genuineness as the drift of religion lost its savor and integrity; and it finally became, as it were, a stock-worn religious platitude. At no time in the world's history has the wo Modern ship of Self attained more prodigious propor Individualism. tions than exists all around us today. The selfmade man is the modern god. I, me. mine, thr are the shibboleths of the present. Enlarged somewhat, the worship includes my father, my wife, my child. Societies for the extolling of parents who have in any way distinguished themselves, multiply in the land. Sons and daughters of every conceivable character rise up and flatter themselves by telling about their won drous forebears. The beauty and value of the germinal principle in all this ancestor worship  that of shaping youthful character by proper pride in honest ancestry  is too often lost under the verbiage of cheap oratory and the tawdry social climbing begotten of class distinctions and exclusive social groups. Imagine, if you can, the consternation of our Pilgrim fore-parents if they could behold some of their fashionable descendants of today. The social ideal of the true Latter-day Saint The Whole is a happy combination of the best there is in Greater than individualism and communism. To respect any Part. self enough to live on the highest plane, and to love all men enough to seek the good of the whole community rather than the pleasures of the individual is the aim of every Saint. Add to this practical ideal the spiritual parallel, and you have fertile ground for the planting of the principles of redemption for the dead. There is no visible reward, no outer commendation, for the man or the woman who seeks after his or her dead. No one rises up to bless, none voice their gratitude, and no earthly gifts repay the zealous toiler for the dead. What a day for Saints to remember; what a The 21st of vision for Saints to recall. The open door for Sept., 1823. the prisoner, the eyesight for the blind; the procession of devout readers had read Malachi for centuries and never knew 'till the Angel Moroni taught the youthful Prophet to read understanding^, the promise made to the fathers. The hearts of the children shall turn to the fathers, said the angel. Who can doubt its fulfilment! If we would know the joy, the bliss of the true follower of Christ Jesus, we must respect self, family, living friends, and still love our ancestors sufficiently to lose ourselves in the work and mission of our Savior. He gave His whole life living, and His body on the tree, to save others. All the words we speak, all the acts we perform, that tend to save souls are Christ-like. When we are actually the means of converting some loved one, how supreme is our joy! Then how great is the labor that opens the prison door for hundreds  nay thousands, of spirits, which are helpless without that vicarious assistance. Beautiful day in a beautiful month that brought so beautiful an opportunity to mortals to lose themselves in Christ Jesus while finding themselves at life's close safe in His ineffable companionship. We honor thee, the twenty-first day of