Eva Willes Wangsgaard 84

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions $2.46; Editorial Dept. $2.45. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THEVOL. 35, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1948 Abraham Lincoln (1809 - 1865) "Let us have faith that right makes might; and in that faith let us to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it." "Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people?" ".. That from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause..." "The world has never had a good definition of the word liberty, and the American people, just now, are much in want of one." ",.. To do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among... All nations." "Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away." "Among free men there can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet..." "If we do not make common cause to save the good old ship of the Union on this voyage, nobody will have a chance to pilot her on another voyage." "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." "At what point then is the approach of danger to be expected? I answer if it ever reach us it must spring up amongst us; it cannot come from abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we must live through all time or die by suicide." "Character is like a tree and reputation like its shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing." "What is conservatism? Is it not adherence to the old and tried, against the new and untried?" The Cover: 'Twelve-Mile Canyon, Near Gunnison, Utah. Photograph by Grace T. Kirton. Copyright by Eugene A. Perry STATUE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN By Augustus Saint-Gaudens Lincoln Park, Chicago, Illinois