Eva Willes Wangsgaard 84

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions $2.46; Editorial Dept. $2.45. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THEVOL. 35, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1948 Abraham Lincoln (1809 - 1865) "Let us have faith that right makes might; and in that faith let us to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it." "Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people?" ".. That from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause..." "The world has never had a good definition of the word liberty, and the American people, just now, are much in want of one." ",.. To do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among... All nations." "Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away." "Among free men there can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet..." "If we do not make common cause to save the good old ship of the Union on this voyage, nobody will have a chance to pilot her on another voyage." "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." "At what point then is the approach of danger to be expected? I answer if it ever reach us it must spring up amongst us; it cannot come from abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we must live through all time or die by suicide." "Character is like a tree and reputation like its shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing." "What is conservatism? Is it not adherence to the old and tried, against the new and untried?" The Cover: 'Twelve-Mile Canyon, Near Gunnison, Utah. Photograph by Grace T. Kirton. Copyright by Eugene A. Perry STATUE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN By Augustus Saint-Gaudens Lincoln Park, Chicago, Illinois "Seek Ye First the Kingdom of God" Edith S. Elliott Member, Relief Society General Board (Address Delivered at the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1947) SINCE the beginning of time man has had the opportunity to be guided in his conduct in thought and action by our Heavenly Father. "God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them." The mere fact that man is a product of God's creation assures us that he had an interest in the achievement or he would not have gone to all the necessary work for the ultimate accomplishment. With the creation of man our Heavenly Father's interest in his well-being remained ever-constant, as witnessed in the holy scriptures and the revelations given for us in our day. Because of his knowledge of universal and eternal laws, he has been anxious for his earthly children to reap the rewards gained by knowledge of and obedience to them. These laws function with undisturbed accuracy. Like temporal laws when, if not kept, punishment and regret follow. Our Heavenly Father wants us to be happy and enjoy life in its fullness. He has told us that "man is that he might have joy." In order to experience the joy and happiness in store for us, the Savior explained the pattern. For us to follow in chapters 5, 6, and 7 of the gospel of St. Matthew. There is a repetition in Luke, part of which I would like to quote from chapter 12, verses 22 to 32: And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment. Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; which neither have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much more are ye better than the fowls? And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit? If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest? A Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, they spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothe the grass, which is today in the field, and tomorrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith? And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind..; For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you.; Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Page 75 WHEN the gospel was restored in its fullness through the Prophet Joseph Smith, it returned unchanged. All of the laws, commandments, and penalties remain the same. We are plainly told in a revelation recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants that "there is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." This quotation is a reminder of what we must do to gain salvation. The early saints who accepted the message of the latter-day Prophet and sought first the kingdom of God saw a literal fulfillment of the promise, "All these things shall be added unto you." When they faced the wilderness, no one could say, "O ye of little faith," because it was their faith in and love of God that sustained them through the desert and, later, the mountains, when they sought peace in a forbidding wasteland. Here they sought first the kingdom of God and during these past ten decades all these things have been added unto them. Let us think back over some of "these things" of the past one hundred years. This year 1947 is the Centennial year for the settlement of Utah. All members of the Church, as well as Utah's citizenry, have taken pride in recalling the unbelievable attainments made in the State, the Nation, and the world during this period. Since the restoration of the gospel, the whole world has had an outpouring of the favor of our Heavenly Father. It has been as the leaven to the lump. This past century has been the most wonderful that the world has ever known in the fields of medicine, mechanics, inventions, science, and many others. Freedom of speech, of the press, and of religion have reached heights never before known. Exertion of individual freedom has made for more liberal forms of government and democracies. Indeed, the Lord has kept his promise. THE century is over poems, songs, stories, and monuments honor the deeds of the faithful. Will future generations take the seeds from their harvest and produce as abundantly as they?

Let us consider the words of the great Emancipator, which I feel apply here: It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion.... Those of us privileged to witness the dawn of a new century are grateful that we have roots nourished by the fertility of so glorious a past. Let me repeat, we are witnessing the turn of a century. Let us pause for a few moments of stock-taking. We are part way up the hill of progress and can look back on what has gone before, and ahead with faith in the future. Unless we choose to go on, we retrogress. We can make our choice. It will take no effort, vision, or imagination to roll backward. It will take all of these and plenty of them to go forward. According to C. F. Kettering:  "SEEK YE FIRST THE KINGDOM OF GOD" You can send a message around the world in one-seventh of a second, yet it may take years to force a simple idea through a quarter-inch of human skull. Our safety in the future requires us to keep in tune with our Heavenly Father's wishes so that his inspiration can penetrate our beings and move us to noble achievements. Our conduct as individuals is what influences world movements and we could have heaven on earth the minute we all would follow the second great commandment: "Love thy neighbor as thyself." Consider the blessings that can be ours by obedience to the laws decreed in heaven. In 1 Corinthians 3:9 we read: Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. Therefore, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you." FOR SOME APPOINTED REASON Berta Huish Christensen Time will not wait; for some appointed reason, It moves with swift precision and is lost. The rose that bares its beauty beyond season Will find its velvet brittled by the frost. Though we would stay the falling petals, keep The harvest bough that leans on autumn's gate, Or healing moments at the edge of sleep, As solace for our tears, time will not wait. But love will stay through the long years turning, From the first frail bud to the severed leaf, Shielding its flame to a constant burning Through the winds of loss and the snows of grief. And only love will wait with patient breath, Beyond the somber interim of death. Spiritual Security for the Family Leone G. Layton Member, Relief Society General Board [Address Delivered at the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1947] Dear Sisters, it is good to partake of the spirit of this great gathering of the sisterhood of the Relief Society. As Relief Society workers, we are all vitally concerned with building the home and family. Latter-day Saint homes should be the happiest in all the world, homes where the spirit of our Father in heaven can abide and his influence direct. Latter-day Saint mothers are all anxious to foster such conditions in their homes, knowing the peace, happiness, and security they bring to the family, for, like Father Lehi, we desire to share with our families the fruits which we have found good. He tells us in the Book of Mormon of his dream-vision of the tree whose fruit "was desirable to make one happy. And it came to pass that I did go forth and partake of the fruit thereof; and I beheld that it was most sweet, above all that I had ever tasted.... And as I partook of the fruit thereof it filled my soul with exceeding great joy; wherefore I began to be desirous that my family should partake of it also...." We all know the story, how Sariah, Sam, and Nephi came and partook and Laman and Lemuel refused to heed the call of their father; how, in looking for them, he saw the river leading to the tree, the narrow path beside it, and the rod of iron which secured the way for those who clung to it through the mists of darkness. We are fortunate that Nephi was given the interpretation of this dream, for through him we know the sweet fruit was a representation of the "love of God which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men," and that the iron rod represents the word of God. We who are striving to ensure the future security and happiness of our families today, have ready access to the revealed word of the Lord. We have no need to go far to grasp this iron rod of safety, but can, in our own homes, direct our children to the straight and narrow path leading to spiritual security and happiness, and set their feet thereon. We are fortunate, also, in having certain definite markers given us by which we may be sure our course is right, and by which we may judge our progress. I would like to point out a few of these markers which are of special importance to us as wives and mothers. "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me" (John 5:39). As mothers, then, is it not our place to search the scriptures that we may teach them to our children so they will love them and learn to turn to them for guidance in their daily lives? How many great men have told of learning to love the Bible at their mothers' knees! We would none of us think of planning a long journey without consulting the guidebooks and road maps to be sure of the best way to reach our destination. How important it is, then, that we should be conscious at all times of this marker and "search the scriptures" that we may learn of our Heavenly Father, our heavenly home, and the way we must take to reach it.... Love him and serve him, the only living and true God.... If we love our Heavenly Father, we will keep the commandments which he has given us, and we will delight to serve him by doing his work here in his earthly kingdom. This marker is of special importance to the homemaker, for it is in the home that patterns of living are set. Little things sometimes influence future attitudes greatly, and a mother who sets aside her desire to see a certain movie or other entertainment that her husband may be free to fill his ward-teaching assignment may be giving her children a lesson in service values that will stay with them throughout their lives.

What understanding support comes to a husband from having a wife who honors the Priesthood and its calls. The sons of such a mother will never take the possession of the Priesthood lightly. Surely, if we place first in importance in our homes obedience to authority and a desire to do all we are called upon to do, we shall have marked the way to loving service for our families and set in motion those forces which will bring to them eternal happiness and satisfaction. 79 "Pray always, lest you enter into temptation...." As we search the scriptures and serve our Father, we appreciate anew the part prayer plays in dispelling the mist of darkness and helping us cling to the rod. This is the very first marker we are conscious of giving our little ones. How soon they sense the security of a kind Father watching over them as they sleep at night! Then, as they kneel with the family, and, in turn, voice thanksgiving for blessings received and ask for those now needed, a sense of "belonging," of family solidarity, is born within them. Family prayers are, of course, the responsibility of the Priesthood, but I am sure that in homes where the mother sees clearly the many strengthening values of the family praying together, this commandment is never forgotten. I remember one of the brethren saying once, "We could never forget family prayer in our home. When we came to breakfast we found our chairs all turned away from the table, and, without a word, we were reminded that the first order of the day for our family was to approach our Father in heaven, to thank him for his many blessings and to ask for his protecting care and guidance through the day." "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." Was there ever a time when mothers of the Church were more concerned with keeping their families "unspotted from the world"? Here, in this marker, we are told plainly the way to accomplish our desire. In the 50th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we read of the Sabbath: And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full.... And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances... The fulness of the earth is yours.... I always feel that this revelation is directed to women, especially this part. We manage the homes. We can plan our food for the day with singleness of heart and go with the family to Sunday School and sacrament meeting, and partake of the spirit with them. I know of nothing we can do to bring a more united family spirit than appreciating the privilege of partaking of the sacrament together. I know of no way that we can bring security and happiness to our families more than to set them in the way of obtaining the "fulness of the earth." Sisters, we have our Father's word that "the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards," are promised to those who observe his day as he would have them observe it. Read this section often. The promises given herein are explicit. The earthly and spiritual security which we so desire for our families is clearly set forth, and the way pointed out whereby they may be learned. In today's world of uncertainty it seems that, truly, mists of darkness do cover the path ahead, and yet, even as we grope, our hearts are made glad, for we see the light from the fountainhead and testify afresh that by clinging fast to the rod of iron spiritual security for our families will be won and, together with them, we shall partake of the fruit of the tree, which is sweet above all other fruit, which fills our souls with exceeding great joy.   HOME FIRES Grace Sayre Over the hill from the valley I walk at the end of day, Watching the far lights brighten Along the blue canyon way. I see thin home lights gleaming As they prick the darkness through, And I search for one good beacon - That points me home to you; You who keep lights burning, Oh, hope of my heart's desire! I return with a surging gladness In the thought of my own home fire.  Elen Louise Wallace Madsen Called to the General Board Lillie C. Adams Member, General Board of Relief Society "The glory of God is intelligence, or in other words, light and truth" ELEN LOUISE WALLACE MADSEN has been conscious of the truthfulness of these words. She has constantly pursued a study of not only the gospel of Jesus Christ, but of literature, the sciences, and history. Since her graduation from the L. D. S., University and attendance at the University of Utah, she has had extension courses in English, literature, history, and law. School. She has, since her marriage, been a member of the Mt. Ogden Stake Primary board, a teacher in Junior Seminary, leader of the Twelfth Ward (Salt Lake City) Gleaner Girls, when her husband was bishop of that ward, Relief Society literature class leader, Emigration Stake Relief Society theology class leader. Persistent, Positive, and perfect Performance in the gospel brings forth goodly fruits. Again she was called to assume a position of responsibility as president of Emigration. She manifests devotion to all her Church duties, realizing that the gospel "enlighteneth the mind, quickeneth the understanding, openeth the heart, prepareth the hand in the execution of good deeds," Truly, she seeks to keep the two. Her faith and fortitude are her strongholds, and she does not allow disaster or defeat to dampen her enthusiasm for the work of the gospel (Continued on Page 126) Page 8] Aleine Margetts Young Called to the General Board Velma N. Simonsen Second Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society LEINE MARGETTS YOUNG was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, December 10, 1947. Her appointment brings to the organization a woman of ability and experience, a woman who is admired for her leadership, her good judgment, and her poise, and who is loved for her friendliness, her cheerfulness, her sincerity, and her willingness to work. - Aleine's father, the late Charles P. Margetts, was bishop of the Twenty-seventh Ward, Pioneer Stake, Salt Lake City, for twenty-three years. Her mother, Catherine Rigby Margetts, was a woman of charm and refinement and a wise counselor to her husband. When Aleine was fifteen years old she began teaching in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and has continued to give constant, faithful service in these organizations.

She has served as a teacher in Relief Society, Sunday School, the Primary, and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, both in a ward capacity and as a member of the stake boards of these organizations. Sister Young is endowed with unusual executive qualities and with the ability to get things done. She is an excellent public speaker and delivers the gospel message with great sincerity. She has been president of Yale Ward Primary, president of Aleine Margetts Young Bonneville Stake Y. W. M. LA., first counselor and president of the Bonneville Ward Relief Society, and for the past year she has served as president of the Bonneville Stake Relief Society. On September 17, 1920, she was married to Lorenzo S. Young, great-grandson of Brigham Young. She spent the next four years with her husband in New York and Philadelphia, where Mr. Young was studying architecture. While in the East they were both active in missionary work, helping the missionaries in holding cottage meetings and street meetings. (Continued on page 126)

Relief Society Building News

Society sisters everywhere in regard to collecting funds for the erection of the Relief Society building. Those who have actively entered upon the collecting of the Toney express themselves as finding joy and satisfaction in working for this cause. While some ward Relief Societies are uniting to raise in one fund-raising activity their quotas, the great bulk of the money is coming in from individual donations earned by the sisters through that close and dear friend of Relief Society "Hard Work." Many have made and sold bread, cake, pies, flowers, aprons, and other articles for eating and wearing. With the present high prices, it does not take too long to earn $5, each Relief Society member's quota. The General Board feels that in approving the year October 1947 - October 1948 as the time for collecting this great sum of money, wise guidance was given by the General Authorities of the Church. It is a most favorable time. Many wards have held off the fund gathering until after the Christmas season, but expect to bend every effort to collect their quotas in the near future. It is always a satisfaction to complete an assignment, and such an assignment as this one brings joy and blessings to those who aid in its accomplishment. In making their individual contributions, the women of the Church feel that they receive great personal blessings. An example of the joy that comes from this effort is reported by the family of Mrs. Annie Forrester Willardson. This dear sister, a member of Hollywood Ward, Los Angeles Stake, has been almost blind for several years. Recently, at the age of eighty-three, she tried to sign a check for her contribution to the new building. The pen slipped in her hand and part of her name was written off the check. Finally, with the help of her daughter, Della Mortensen, Sister Willardson was able to complete the signature. This was one of the last acts of her life. She passed away very soon after making her contribution. However, she enjoyed the satisfaction of knowing that her name would be included with the thousands of others who are providing for the erection of a building for the women of the Church.

Long a loyal and devoted worker in Relief Society, Mrs. Willardson served in several capacities in ward and stake organizations in her native Sanpete County, Utah, before moving to California. Her large and faithful family are helping to carry forward the work of the Society and they, also, have made their individual contributions.

Stakes Which Have Sent In 100% Building Quotas

South Idaho Falls Stake Ammon, Idaho Falls Third, Sixth, and Eighth Wards.
Idaho Falls Stake Idaho Falls Second, Fifth, and Ninth; Iona, and Lincoln Wards.

First Stake to Complete Its Building Quota
South Idaho Falls Stake and Ward Relief Society Officers and Members of the Priesthood Front row, left to right: Stake Relief Society officers, Florence W. Orme, Second Counselor; Edna J. Kindred, First Counselor; Elenna B. Allen, President; LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop; Cecil E. Hart, President, South Idaho Falls Stake; Vera P. Hart, Secretary, Stake Relief Society; Uarda Whiting, President, Ammon Ward Relief Society.
Second row, left to right: Officers of the Sixth Ward Relief Society: Anna Jensen, Second Counselor; Mamie Edwards, First Counselor; Elzie Elkington, President; Officers of the Third Ward Relief Society: Julia Felt, Secretary; Harriette Woolley, Second Counselor; Katie Hess, First Counselor; Martel Williams, President; Dean Judy, Second Counselor, Ammon Ward Relief Society.
Third row, left to right: Norma Kennedy, Acting Secretary, Sixth Ward Relief Society; Larue Merrill, First Counselor, Stake Presidency; Reed Blatter, Second Counselor, Stake Presidency; A. W. Naegle, High Council Advisor; Allen O. Johnson, Bishop, Eighth Ward; Vern E. Bitter, Bishop, Sixth Ward; Clifford Judy, Bishop, Ammon Ward; Arthur Thompson, Bishop, Third Ward; Jewel Parker, Second Counselor, Eighth Ward Relief Society; Eva Dick, President; Ruth Hogge, Secretary; Dora Holm, First Counselor, Ammon Ward Relief Society.

President Eleanora B. Allen of South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, Hands 100% Quota Check to Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards At Stake Quarterly Conference, November 30, 1947

Second Stake to Complete Its Building Quota
Idaho Falls Stake and Ward Officers Who Assisted In Fund-Raising Project Front row, left to right: Mrs. J. W. Stoddard; Mrs. J. H. Denning; Mrs. Orson P. Davis; Mrs. Jesse Croft, Stake Relief Society President; Mrs. E. Milton Christensen; Mrs. J. J. Wise; Mrs. Ralph O. Waddoups.
Second row, left to right: Mrs. Glen Spracher; Mrs. W. J. O'Bryant; Mrs. B. L. Harris; Mrs. C. A. Thurman; Mrs. N. H. Peterson; Mrs. Vera Thomas; Mrs. A. W. Schweider; Mrs. Verl Bodily.
Men in the picture are: Stanford Blaylock; George Bitter; Oscar W. Johnson; Stake President William G. Ovard; D. William Cook.

Relief Society Building News 85 

Wards and Branches (In Stakes) Which Have Sent In 100% Building Quotas
Beaver Ward, Beaver Stake (Utah)
Bedford Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming)
Bennington Ward, Montpelier Stake (Idaho)
Blackfoot Second Ward, Blackfoot Stake (Idaho)
Boise Fifth Ward, Boise Stake (Idaho)
Clear Creek Branch, North Carbon Stake (Utah)
Eighth Ward, Liberty Stake (Salt Lake City)
Erda Ward, Grantsville Stake (Utah)
Joseph City Ward, Snowflake Stake (Arizona)
Kilgore Ward, Yellowstone Stake (Idaho)
LaSal Ward, San Juan Stake (Utah)
Linda Vista Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
Marion Ward, South Summit Stake (Utah)
Mexican Branch, Temple View Stake (Salt Lake City)
Pleasant Green Ward, Oquirrh Stake (Salt Lake County)
Pleasant View Ward, Sharon Stake (Utah)
Provo Thirteenth Ward, East Provo Stake (Utah)
Riverside Ward, Blackfoot Stake (Idaho)
South Shore Branch, Chicago Stake (Illinois)
Star Ward, Burley Stake (Idaho)
Valencia Park Ward, San Diego Stake (California )
Vernon Ward, St. Johns Stake (Arizona)
Veyo Ward, St. George Stake (Utah)

Erda Ward, Grantsville Stake (Utah), First Ward to Submit Quota
Ward officers, left to right: Gilda Cochrane, First Counselor; Amy Palmer, Second Counselor; Georgia Warr, Secretary-Treasurer; Annie S. Droubay, President.

District Note.
Tral Ore Ranch, Northern Montana
Central Oregon District Bank Branch
Yakima District Vancouver, B.C.

Branch (Independent Branch) White Salmon Bra Winlock Branch, Yakima District Winlock Branch (Independent Branch) Woodburn Branch, Oregon District WESTERN STATES MISSION Bridgeport Branch, Scottsbluff District LaMar Branch, Pueblo District NOTE: All the reports herewith included in the Relief Society Building News were compiled as of January 9, 1948, when the Magazine went to press.

Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Answer Janath Russell Cannon JANATH RUSSELL CANNON THE afternoon shadows were beginning to lengthen across the lawn; they crept up the porch steps and almost touched the feet of the girl sitting motionless in the late autumn sun, an open, unread book in her lap. How slowly they move, she thought, watching the shadows, like the days how slowly they drag by. The sun's rays lay lightly on the black dress and the thin, almost transparent hands. Mrs. Anderson came out of the house with her accustomed briskness, drawing on her gloves and adjusting her hat with firm, capable fingers.

Page 88

She was a small woman, completely unlike her tall, dark daughter and her three strapping sons. At the sight of Mary sitting quietly with half-closed eyes, she paused; and her manner became less assured, almost tinged with despair.

"Mary Dear, are you sure you wouldn't like to come to Relief Society with me this afternoon? You really should start getting out again, you know."

"No, thank you, Mother. I'd rather stay here."

The voice was mechanically polite, the dark eyes did not look up. Mrs. Anderson sighed, hesitated a moment, then hurried on.

After the meeting, she waited until the room had cleared and then approached the work director, Sister Jamieson. Sister Jamieson put a big, warm hand on her shoulder and said gently,

"You look worried, Sister Anderson. Is it Mary?"

"Yes, I'm at my wits' end, Sister Jamieson. She eats hardly anything, and just sits on the porch all day."

"Let's see—it's been three months since Ken was killed, hasn't it?"

"Yes." Mrs. Anderson shuddered.

THE ANSWER

"That horrible accident! It's hard to understand that Ken should go all through the wat without a scratch, only to be snuffed out in a second, by a drunken college boy in a flivver. And the baby!"

Tears stood in her eyes. "Ken and Mary were so happy about that baby. It would have been born this month, you know."

"I know." Mrs. Jamieson patted her arm. "Sometimes the ways of the Lord are hard to understand."

"That's what worries me most. Mary keeps asking why the Lord didn't take her, when he took away her every reason for living. If she could only find something do you suppose Brother Jamieson could help? She enjoyed teaching under him that year before she was married."

"Yes, he always said any principal would be glad to have Mary as a teacher. Do you think she's strong enough now?"

"Doctor Carter says she needs a job." Sister Jamieson gathered up her purse and books with a decisive gesture.

"I'll speak to Tom about it tonight."

THE next afternoon as Mary sat on the porch reading, the quiet was shattered by a joyous cacophony of sound. Public School Number Five, just around the corner, was dismissed for the day. A stream of shouting, bright-sweatered youngsters eddied and swirled down the street.

With a sigh, Mary closed the book and rose to go into the house.

They're so terribly alive, she thought, with an ache in her throat.

"Wait a moment, Mary," said a pleasant voice; and she turned to see Mr. Jamieson coming up the walk. 89

A rare smile lighted the girl's somber face.

"Hello, Mr. Jamieson," she greeted him warmly. "What brings you this way?"

"Business, Mary. Shall we go inside, where we can hear ourselves talk? I swear, these youngsters get noisier every year."

He led the way, talking easily.

"Your third-graders were unusually well-behaved when you taught them that one year. You have a real teaching knack, Mary; it's a pity to waste it."

She started to speak; a tiny frown had replaced the welcoming smile.

But the principal continued,

"We need teachers, Mary. You could be a great help to us and it would do you good, too."

"Please, Mr. Jamieson," Mary interrupted him. "I'd really like to help you, but I'm afraid I can't. I just can't."

"Of course, I realize we can't offer you much in the way of salary. It's the intangible rewards that make teaching worthwhile. I wouldn't blame you if you decided to look elsewhere for a job."

"I hadn't thought of getting a job." Under the man's direct gaze, she felt a slow flush creeping into her cheeks.

"After all," she said defensively, "I haven't exactly been in a position to work lately."

"You're well enough to work now," said the principal, his bluntness softened only by the kind tone. "I talked to Doctor Carter just this morning. He says you need to get out and be busy if you don't stop just sitting around this house, you'll turn into a vegetable."

There was no answering spark in Mary's eyes.

"At least vegetables have a kind of peace," she said in a low voice.

"No. I'm sorry, Mr. Jamieson, but I just don't feel like working. I couldn't do a good job, feeling the way I do."

The principal rose and picked up his hat.

"All right, Mary, if that's the way you want it." He hesitated for a moment, then went on firmly,

"But let me tell you this. Ken Foster was as straight-thinking a boy as I've ever known. He always said that a man ought to pull his own weight in this world—yes, and a woman, too. I think he expects his wife to pull her weight in the world as long as she's here."

Mr. Jamieson's sharp blue eyes softened a little.

"I know the separation's hard to bear, Mary. But have faith, Child—if that accident didn't take you along with Ken and your baby, it must have been for a purpose. Won't you take the job?"

Mary looked at him soberly.

"The only job I'm interested in is being Ken's wife and having his children. When I was in the hospital, I prayed to die. I still do. Do you think I want to teach little children, feeling like that?"

Without a word, the principal bowed his head in defeat and left the house.

Poor kid, he thought, Ken was the breath of life to her. I guess she's been in love with him ever since she was old enough to know what the word meant. What can a mere man do against grief like that?

But that evening when he answered the phone, he recognized Mary's voice.

"I'm sorry about this afternoon, Mr. Jamieson. I've been thinking it over. You were right about Ken; he would want me to pull my own weight. I'll try it, anyway. When do you want me to start?"

THAT winter was long and hard. The wind blew the snow into great drifts higher than a man.

The children's heavy overshoes and snowsuits dripped puddles of dirty water that threatened to flood the cloakroom, and the third grade was so crowded some of the pupils had to double up in the cramped desks. Discipline was not easy to maintain. Although she made an honest effort, Mary could not summon back the enthusiasm she had once put into her teaching; and the children seemed to sense her indifference. By the time she plodded home in the desolate winter twilight, she was bone-weary, brain-weary, and the sum total of her desires was for a hot bath and sleep. She could hardly keep her eyes open long enough after dinner to correct the day's papers. Mrs. Anderson watched her daughter anxiously. "You're sure she's not overdoing?" she asked Doctor Carter as they chatted on the street corner. "You know Mary is inclined to go to extremes." "She'll be all right," said the doctor heartily. "There's nothing like hard work to mend a broken heart. That's my prescription every time." He repeated the cheerful axiom to Mr. Jamieson a few days later, but the principal shook his head. "Sometimes I'm afraid Mary's heart is just withering away, instead of mending. She works hard, but she's like an automaton. I don't think I've seen her smile all winter. Frankly, Doctor, the work cure isn't having quite the results I had hoped." Grandmother Ellis also shook her head. "It takes a new love to bury an old one," she said sententiously. "Aren't there any eligible young men in the ward these days?" All during the winter, Mary had pleaded weariness as an excuse for refusing the occasional invitations to a movie or a lecture. But finally she accepted. "Everyone keeps telling me this is what I need," she thought grimly as she bathed and slipped into a fresh dress after school. "And Grandmother Ellis will pester the life out of me if I turn Eric down again." But afterward, as she sat at her dressing table and stared into the mirror with dull eyes, she thought. "It's no use. I'm still Ken's wife. I only want to be with him. Why can't they let me alone? Why doesn't the Lord let me go?" Spring finally came; and as Mary walked wearily home after school one afternoon, she saw the first kite, leaping and dancing against the rain-washed sky, tugging madly at the invisible string that held it earth-bound. The excitement of it caught at her throat and she stopped short. For the first time since Ken's death, she was aware of the world around her and its beauty; and the numbness in her heart was swept away in an inexplicable tide of joy. She drew in a deep breath of the cool earth-and-rain-scented air. "It's spring," said her heart, exultantly. But the next moment she was half running, her vision blurred with stinging tears, clenching her teeth to hold back the agonizing sobs until she could fling herself down on her bed at home. "Oh Ken, Ken, I miss you so!" But in spite of the pain, she felt alive in every fiber, and spring was in her blood like a tonic. The next morning she walked briskly to school and arrived earlier than usual. But someone had been there before her. On the scarred surface of the desk lay a bunch of violets, painstakingly tied together with a pink hair bow. Underneath them she saw a folded piece of ruled notepaper. She untied the ribbon and read the note: "Dere Miss Mary," began the childish scrawl. "You are so bewtiful and so sad I think maybe you are lonsum like me. Its awfull to be lonsum. I wish you were my techer. I love you." There was no signature. Mary laid the paper down thoughtfully. "Its awfull to be lonsum," what a bitter truth for a child to have to learn! What kind of parents could the child have, she thought indignantly. Then, since the first trickle of students had begun to straggle in, she slipped the note and the flowers into the top drawer. But the pitiful little note haunted her thoughts, and the sight of the compositions to be corrected that day gave her a sudden impulsive idea. That handwriting looks like one of Miss Kissinger's fifth-graders, she thought, I wonder if I could recognize it in a composition. That night, Mary sat down to a pile of fifth-grade papers. The subject, repeated in a variety of sprawled, childish handwriting, was "My Best Friend." Curiously she scanned the pages of ruled copy paper. Most of the compositions described playmates, a favorite uncle, a dog. Then came a first line that stood out from the rest. "I have a friend and his name is Henry. He is a mouse." Eagerly Mary read on: "He is sort of brown and his nose wigles. I put bred crums on the floor for him to eat and I talk to him. I wish I culd have a kitty to pet. My aunt says they are too much trubble. She doesn't know about Henry." Hastily, Mary compared the writing with the note that had come with the flowers. It was the same. The name was printed at the top of the composition Emily Dale, in precise, painstaking letters. Miss Kissinger was not above the enjoyment of a bit of gossip. When Mary returned the papers and inquired in an offhand manner about the child whose best friend was a mouse, the older woman gave a delicate snort. "Clotilda Beach would burst a stay if she knew about that mouse. She's so proud of being an immaculate housekeeper. Emily's her only sister's child, you know. Susan Beach she was a beautiful girl. I think Clotilda was always jealous of her. But when Susan and her husband were both drowned, there was no one left to take the child but Clotilda." Miss Kissinger smiled grimly. "She didn't accept the situation very gracefully. If she hadn't been afraid of what people would say, I think she'd have sent the child to an orphan asylum." Mary's eyes widened. "Dreadful woman!" "No, my dear," said Miss Kissinger. "She's just lived to herself for twenty years. Besides, Emily is an uncommonly homely child—sallow skin and a wide 'What a mouth,' stringy hair. She has the misfortune to resemble her aunt more than her mother. Strangers are always telling Clotilda how much her daughter resembles her; naturally, this annoys Clotilda immensely." "But surely the child must have some friends," persisted Mary. "Her schoolmates and neighborhood children." Miss Kissinger pursed her lips reflectively. "Children are cruel. They live by herd instinct, and Emily isn't one of the herd. Clotilda never did have good taste in clothes; even I can see that. Her idea of a suitable outfit for Emily is a middy and skirt, and it's the same thing every day. And I don't imagine she's encouraged to bring any other children home with her, even if she had any friends to bring."

She's bright in school having no outside distractions, I suppose, and that doesn't endear her to her classmates either." "Poor child," said Mary softly. The older woman patted her arm, and her voice was suddenly kind. "Each of us has his own brand of loneliness, my dear. Emily isn't mistreated; there are millions of children worse off than she." "I know." Mary couldn't explain, even to herself, why she should feel such a burden of responsibility toward a child she had never even seen. But it was awful to be alone with the pitiful little scrawl haunting her. "All the same, I think I'll ask her over for a little visit this evening." AFTER the last bell had rung, Mary closed her desk hastily and went to the door of the fifth-grade room. She had no difficulty in recognizing Emily. There was the inevitable middy and skirt; there was the stringy hair and the shy, unhappy expression she had expected. But Mary also saw a pair of long-lashed eyes with a sudden eager look in them as the child caught sight of her. "Hello," smiled Mary. "You're Emily, aren't you?" "How did you know?" asked the breathless little voice. "Oh, a little mouse named Henry told me." A radiant smile lighted the small, homely face, then disappeared. "Oh, did you read my composition? I shouldn't have written it. I've been so scared Aunt Clotilda would find out." Mary put her arm around the small figure. "I wouldn't tell, Emily. I thought it was a very nice composition. In fact, it was so good I thought you might be able to help me with something of mine. Would your aunt let you come over to my house tonight for supper and a little visit?" - Emily's hands clenched in excitement. "Oh, Miss Mary, could I? Do you really want me to?" "Yes," said Mary seriously. "I'm writing a textbook on grade-school grammar, and I think you can help me." It was a half-truth; at least she had started such a book once. "I'll walk home with you now and ask Aunt Clotilda." Mary's eyes were sparkling as she watched the excitement in the little girl's face. They looked at each other and began to laugh with delight. Mrs. Anderson was a good cook, and Emily ate her meal with such obvious relish that the good woman's heart was completely won. "You could stand a lot more flesh on you, Child," she said, eying Emily's bony shoulders. "Mary will have to bring you to dinner often." The time passed swiftly, and as Mary noticed the darkness outside, she exclaimed, "Goodness, it must be late. I told your aunt I'd have you home before dark; she'll be cross." The sparkle in Emily's eyes faded, and a frightened look appeared. "Oh, Miss Mary, can't I stay with you tonight? Aunt Clotilda will be cross. Please, Miss Mary!" "Why, Honey, I can't do that. I'll walk home with you and explain to your aunt. Surely she won't do anything dreadful." The look on the child's face was distressing. "Does she—does she spank you?" "No," said Emily dully. "She locks me in my room and takes the electric light bulb out." Feeling baffled and helpless, Mary took the child home. Miss Beach accepted her explanation of their lateness with a curt nod of her iron-marlled head. "I dare say she'll remember next time," she said coldly, as Emily backed into the house with a last entreating look. "If there is a next time!" All the way home and as she was getting ready for bed, the pitiful look persisted in Mary's thoughts. "It's none of my affair," she told herself. "Why should I feel responsible for her?" But she did feel responsible. All too clearly, she could see the inevitable march of Emily's destiny—a frustrated, anguished adolescence, followed by the dreary process of getting older, unloved; working, caring for a tyrannical old woman while life passed by. Her aunt would see to it that she never married, and would never let her forget the burden of gratitude she should carry. Mary shuddered. What if it were my little girl, that I might have had? For a long time she sat on the edge of her bed, almost in a daze. Then, as if a voice had told her, she knew what she must do. With a light heart, she lay down to sleep and felt that Ken was close beside her, approving her decision. The next morning she went to her mother, eyes shining. "Mother, I'm going to adopt Emily and go back to the little house Ken and I built." "What!" Then, seeing the urgency in her daughter's dark eyes, Mrs. Anderson hesitated. Something told her this was no whim, but the long-sought answer to a great need. "Well," she said thoughtfully, "it might be a good idea—a home, and someone you love to look after. Yes, it might be a very good idea." To Mary's surprise, everything went smoothly. Miss Beach, after a moment of astonished disapproval, was obviously glad to be relieved of an unwelcome burden; the adoption. Officers were sympathetic; Mr. Jamieson assured her she could go on teaching as long as she wanted. And Emily—her plain little face glowed with such ecstasy that Mary was startled. "Oh, Miss Mary, do you really want me? Are you sure?" Any lingering doubts Mary might have had were dispelled in that moment. She took Emily's small cold hands in hers and drew her close. "I think Heavenly Father must have known we needed each other," she said simply. "Shall we kneel down and thank him?" Janath Russell Cannon (Mrs. Edwin Q. Cannon, Jr.), contributes the following brief sketch: "I am afraid my literary accomplishments are meager. The only other story I have ever submitted for publication was entered in The Atlantic Monthly's annual contest for college students, when I was a junior at Wellesley College in 1938. It was awarded third prize. Our family consists of my husband, myself, a daughter Ann, who celebrated her first birthday in January, and a red, hound dog named Pete. My other activities include singing in the Tabernacle Choir and acting as first counselor in the North Twentieth Ward (Salt Lake City, Utah) Relief Society." FEBRUARY ORA Pate Stewart The fence is stretched like a quilting frame Round the lawn where the grass used to grow, And sparrows are having a quilting party Making stitches. In the snow.  _ Windy Hilltop Ezra J. Poulsen CHAPTER 1 66 THIS chilly wind ruins my complexion," Anne Raines often complained. "Well, it's clean, and if your complexion is real, the wind won't hurt it," her husband, Joe Raines, habitually bantered. There was no argument over such a trivial matter; in fact, more often than not, there was laughter, for Joe and Anne were young and much in love.

Nevertheless, there were basic strains of difference in their make-up, which made it hard for them to adjust especially for Anne to adjust to the environment of their homestead tucked away in the foothills. She was thinking of this as she walked corral, where her husband had just driven in with the drill, after finishing the spring wheat planting on the dry farm. She had something on her mind to say, more likely than not to prove as explosive as a bombshell. Her shapeless straw hat askew over her abundant flaxen hair, together with her pink cotton dress, gave her a youthful, rakish appearance, which was heightened by her buoyant step and slender form. A crisp little smile played about the comers of her sensitive mouth, but a shadow lurked in her eyes, presaging a deep inner struggle.

"Hello, Honey," greeted Joe, turning his grimy face toward her with a teasing smile, as he began unhitching the tugs on his three-horse team. "Well, I got done. The last round's planted, and we now have fifty acres of wheat to tussle for with the squirrels and the drought."

"That's fine, Joe Dear, but your face is so dirty I can hardly see what you look like. It's really a shame the drought and squirrels have a two-to-one chance to win," Anne said.

"Now, Pessimist, don't start pre-"

"Oh, I'm not; I merely recall the past three lean years."

Her lips set a trifle. He uncoupled the sweating horses and let them go single file into the small slab stable in their clinking harnesses. Joe Raines was a tall, athletic young man with a determined, angular face and a hardy smile, which, at the moment, made his teeth glisten in their framework of dirty, stubby beard.

"It's all ready, and I have a letter. Della's coming in a couple of days. She's going to spend her vacation with us."

"Vacation!" His voice suggested the incredible. "You mean she's coming to work on you to go back."

"Well, you must be nice to her, Page 95; you know Della. She means right. Besides, don't you think her arguments are rather sound?" Anne proposed this question with hopeful sincerity.

"Oh, yes, very sound, and how convincing!" he retorted good-naturedly. "I can hear her greeting already. It'll run something like this: 'Joe Raines, if you don't get your wife and children out of this forsaken hole, I'll shoot you!'"

Anne couldn't help smiling at this dramatic flare.

They had discussed the situation many times but had come to no agreement. He loved the homestead, but she loved the city. A loud creaking and vibrating sound from the hollow north of the wheat field shocked their ears. Anne gave a startled cry. Joe muttered something under his breath, ran to the stable, reappeared a moment later on one of the horses, and rode hurriedly away. No explanation was required; the range cattle were again breaking through the fence. That was one of the routine problems on their frontier farm.

Anne went to the chicken coop to gather the eggs. Happy, childish voices floated up from the creek bottom below the garden. The sounds were like music to her ears. She called, and in a few moments Dick, her six-year-old son, and Betsy, her three-year-old daughter, answered.

"Supper's ready."

Their shouts of approval indicated their healthy appetites as well as their physical abundance of life, as they ran towards her. There was no doubt about their loving the farm; the complete freedom of their environment affected them as it might a pair of young fawns, making them blithe and beautiful.

But Anne admitted to herself, rather sadly, that lonesomeness was almost overwhelming her. She heard Joe yelling at the cattle up in the hollow. Again, the wires snarled and sang, and the posts creaked. The cattle would be over the hill in a few minutes, and Joe would be mending the fence. The sun was almost down to the ridge above the dry farm, and long fingers of shadow were creeping into the gullies and ravines above the edges of the valley.

A cat zoomed across the bridge down at the creek; a mourning dove cooed on a distant fence; the sweet smell of spring floated up from the willows and alfalfa fields below the ditch. But Anne was positively unresponsive. She was thinking of a neat little cottage in town, her most persistent dream.

"You don't really mind about Della coming, do you?" she asked at the supper table, laughing apologetically. "She thinks she can possibly stand it a week."

Joe took the news with a good-natured grin, as she had expected, though she knew there would be a barbed remark about the event.

"Wonderful," he declared. "I think I can put her to work digging a ditch, so she won't have time to get on your nerves by telling you what a terrible place this is. Ugh, I can hear her now, if a coyote happens to howl."

"That's not fair, Joe. You know Della's always lived in the city," Anne said.

"Just like her sister," he replied affectionately. "Really, my one major sin is bringing you out into this wilderness; and, if you'll forgive me, Honey, I'll take you away soon. That's my most important postwar plan. But right now everything's uncertain. What with strikes and food shortages. Anyway, after being in the army, I love this freedom."

"Now would be a good time to begin looking for a job. Maybe in the fall there won't be any," Joe said.

"And leave our grain and alfalfa?" A pained flicker shot into Joe's gray eyes.

"And I want to get that ditch out," Anne remonstrated, "if you're going to sell?"

"Well, it'll make the place worth more." He grinned sheepishly. "You win. I've been hoping we could keep the place. I guess I'm just naturally a farmer."

He said this as if it were a confession of weakness.

"In other words, Joe, you don't ever want to sell the farm, do you?" Thus pinned down, he resorted to another grin; and, after a long, reflective silence, he kissed his wife and started out to do his chores.

"I don't want to, but I will. By the way, Sam Hadfield made me an offer today. He'll take everything, crop, livestock, and all, if I'll sell."

Anne was more in a mood for reflection than discussion; consequently, she made no reply, and when Joe left the house, she busied herself washing the dishes and getting the children off to bed. She could feel a rift growing between them, which seemed to flourish on many little quirks of circumstances, altogether simple yet quite uncontrollable; and, with a feeling of growing helplessness, she realized they both possessed fixed attitudes from which there seemed to be no retreat.

Anne had met and married Joe in the city, where she had always lived, and where she had a promising position with a utility company.

Early in their acquaintance, he had told her he owned a homestead on the outskirts of the valley in which he was born, and that he had increased it somewhat by purchase. This had been wonderful news. It showed Joe's sense of practical understanding; and when he had asked her, half playfully, if she would like to live on it, she had answered affirmatively. 'The whole thing seemed like a youthful adventure, then. But the hard work, the loneliness, and the crop failures had been bitter disillusionment. Her folks had objected from the first, especially her sister Della, who declared she would expect her home within a week. This had started the antagonism between Joe and Della, and now that Della was coming, there would be some new flare-ups.

The sun was fully down when she saw Joe coming up the path, and went out to meet him. 'Well, Honey, I think we'll sell the place," he said testingly. "I think we'd better take Sam's offer. He wants me to stay, though, till fall, because he can't spare any hands from his ranch till after haying." "How much has he offered?" "Oh, well, to be exact, he hasn't set a price. Neither have I. He'll probably pay as much as anyone." "Joe, you've changed your mind suddenly." "It's what you wanted, isn't it?" He slipped his arm around her in a playful mood. "You're going to have a nice little home exactly where you want it where there's no sagebrush, and no dust, and not too much wind."

"You're making fun of me, Joe. But it's all right. Keep on. I like it. Now, let's run up to the point and take a look at the valley as it gets dark. You know, I must see the lights to make sure there're still other people on earth. I challenge  ? You." She was already running. Her slender form seemed graceful and fairylike to him. He followed, and in a few minutes they reached the top of the hill back of the house, where the cool breeze struck them in the face.

"Oh, I won," cried Anne, throwing herself down on the flat rock which they both agreed was officially the top. The breeze cooled her flushed cheeks and scattered wisps of her blond hair. "Yes, but you can't get away from me," he declared almost fiercely, taking her in his arms and kissing her.

Shortly, the lights in the village several miles away began to twinkle like big fireflies, and the bold outlines of the main range towered against the crimson skyline, setting off the green and black patchwork of farmlands. For a time they sat and drank in the scene. Its familiarity made it none the less impressive. The light slowly faded, and the breeze piped up a trifle harder.

"I miss our hilltop rendezvous more than anything else," admitted Anne soberly. Joe gave her a swift glance. "So will I—ill imagine the memory of it will be very bright when I'm an old man—the hilltop and you." "Oh, I'd love this place," she made a dramatic little gesture back toward the cabin home, with the rolling hillside and small patch of valley bottom which they called their own "if if it wasn't so tying."

"Now, that's a confession," he picked up the note vigorously. "Maybe you don't want to sell." Anne was very serious. She quickly sensed a threatening climax, but she was calm. "I'm thinking of the future: yours, mine, Dicky's, Betsy's. Yes, Dear, I want to sell."

"I'll see Hadfield at once," he decided with finality.

HEN Della Olsen, Anne's sister, came, there wasn't a dull moment. Della and Joe fought it out over farming as a way of life. In the past, Joe had not always been good-natured in these clashes, but now he was really surpassing himself. And, besides, Della, convinced that a move back to town was certain for her sister and family, abandoned her usual critical, fault-finding attitude, and showed an unusual enthusiasm for everything around her.

Even a log cabin, she admitted, could be rather attractive and somewhat homelike when located on a gentle slope near a ditch, surrounded by a garden, and possessing an attractive natural view. "It can be," she qualified, "when you are about to move away. But in the long run, give me plenty of people; I'm afraid of too much space."

WINDY HILLTOP

Joe, who was waiting in the car to take the family down to the village for some groceries, overheard Della. "We'll hurry and get you to the crossroads, so you can see a human being or two enough to last for the night."

"Della's going to help me in the garden next week while you work on the ditch. Then, if you're really a thoughtful husband, you'll take us all to the city a few days when Della goes back home. I want to see mother and the folks," she declared, as they all piled into the car, including Dick and Betsy, and began rolling down the long field road toward the front gate.

The first stop was at the post office where Joe ran into Sam Hadfield. He was inside an unusually long time. When he came out, his face was serious. "Well, I've sold the farm. Hadfield is going to take it this fall. I'm to stay until harvest is over."

"Wonderful," cried Della, "the most sensible thing you ever did, Joe. But it's a long time till fall." "Only five months." "Yes, we can stand it that long," declared Anne, fearing her older sister might start a new crisis.

Della, however, was an assertive person. "Joe, you'd better run into town as soon as possible and see about a job. I think you can get your old one back if you let them know you'll come soon. The manager of the electric company asked me about you only a few weeks ago."

"But, Della, for goodness sake, at least leave me in peace for the summer. I can't go now. There's no one to milk the cows." "Oh, you can get somebody. Can't he, Anne?" 99

Anne hesitated. "Why—no. Help is almost impossible now, Della. But, listen, Joe, I can milk for a few days. Why don't you go?"

She spoke with a sudden flash of enthusiasm. "Yes, it will certainly be wise for you to go to town and try to arrange for a position in advance." "But you haven't milked very much!" "Oh, yes, I have. I can handle the cows. I can take care of everything."

The little car swung into the lane from which they could see the gold of the sunset sweeping across the dry farm. "Well, Honey, if you insist, I'll go," he said, lifting his eyes to the hills. "But I hate to leave you." "But you must go," she insisted.

O Anne, those words proved to be the most fateful she had ever uttered, especially since they were repeated frequently during the next few weeks.

Della had gone home, and Joe seemed content to work around the place, putting off the trip from one time to another. "Oh, do hurry, Joe, we'll be here when the snow flies, with no place to go if you don't act," she complained. "Very well, then, I'll go this very day." There was a tartness in his voice she didn't like, but she firmly held to her point. "It's just a matter of good business, Joe, you know it is, and while I realize how you hate to leave, I'm certain it doesn't do any good to put off what has to be done!" "Honey," he spoke impatiently, "will it be all right if I leave immediately after dinner, or shall I go before?" He strode toward the little shed where they kept the car, his long, energetic steps leaving no doubt that his mind was at last made up. Quickly repentant for her sharp words, Anne tried to call him back, but she seemed incapable. A moment later she heard the motor start, and she hurried into the house to fix dinner while he tinkered about the car, getting it ready for the journey. It seemed an amazingly short time before she stood in the yard watching him drive away. He had denied that he was angry, as he had kissed her and the children. "Do be careful, Honey, around the cows and horses. I'll be back as soon as possible." "And you be careful, Joe," she cried, suddenly shaken by an uncontrollable emotion. "Drive ever so carefully." As she watched the car disappear, a vague dread began to clutch her heart. Had she been wrong in demanding to be taken away from the homestead? Had she been still more wrong in her impatience? For the first time, she admitted a tinge of regret at the thought of leaving the farm. After all, they had lived there most of the time for more than three years; and now, she felt as if it clung to her, and dared her to leave. She thought of the garden, the chickens, the cows. Loneliness overwhelmed her as she called in the children and began to busy herself with the chores. Even then, there was no relief. The loneliness grew into a dread, and she became frightened. If she could have called Joe back, she would have done so. She wasn't half so sure of her ability to take care of the cows as she had made him believe. "Oh, dear me," she said anxiously to Dickie, "I do hope Daddy doesn't stay away long." But Dickie could offer no solace. He was about ready to cry himself. And that was but the beginning. Darkness brought new terrors. Then came dawn, bringing a shock that consumed everything else.

TOO FRAIL A LUTE
Eva Willes Wangsgaard

If I could have you in my arms again, I'd have no need of sun or moon or stars.
Such common lights are meant for lesser men,
And you and I would walk the luminous bars
Of everlasting morning.

Should I wake
To feel again your shoulder firm and strong
Against my cheek, my heart would all but break
Too frail a lute to bear so grand a song.

If I could feel your kiss upon my throat
Or catch familiar love themes in my ear,
Bluebirds would sing and apple blossoms float
Above a hedge of roses all the year;
And grief would be a dull, discarded feather
Lying unruffled in the summer weather.

The Magic Word: Efficiency
Lucille C. Richards

MOMIE, will you read me a story?"
"Yes, Jimmie, just as soon as I get this work finished."
And so it goes on and on, Jimmie waiting for a story, and Momie busy with the house.
How can we make this house a home?
Just what does the hoe need to provide?

The problem given to mothers and homemakers is to organize their households in a manner that will release a larger portion of time and strength for devotion to the higher welfare of the family. This higher welfare is concerned with the development of happy, healthy, and clean-minded human beings properly equipped for the fulfilling of their responsibilities to one another, to the community, and to the race.

In mastering this task, the home-maker's satisfaction will be deeper and more keen if she performs her work swiftly and perfectly, with the greatest possible economy of time and effort. This can be accomplished only through the magic word efficiency. That person is efficient who finds and follows the easiest and most effective way of doing anything. Efficiency will enable the housewife to work more swiftly, and with less fatigue. It will give her increased leisure for things more important than mere mechanical routine. It will cure the habit of hurry and worry, and it will promote happiness and harmony in the home.

The keynote of efficiency is interest. If we could adopt the child's point of view and approach our problem in the spirit of play, mountains would be leveled, difficulties vanish before the concentrated power of interest. We should learn to see in the management of a home, not a routine governed by many formulas, but a fascinating field for investigation and experiment, whose boundless possibilities furnish scope for the exercise of all the initiative, ingenuity, creative ability, and knowledge we possess.

The bulwark upon which efficiency rests is planning. Plans are necessary to success under all conditions of life and in every trade and profession practiced by man, but nowhere are they more essential than in the profession of homemaking. To work without a plan is to work aimlessly and to accomplish little. The housekeeper finds herself at nightfall overwhelmed with the consciousness of tasks unfinished or wholly neglected.

It is well to plan the entire day's program and, in most cases, the best results will be obtained by planning the entire week in advance, taking care not to overcrowd any one day. In planning the general routine do not feel obliged to follow the traditional order of washing on Monday, ironing on Tuesday, and so on. Sunday should be a day of cessation from household cares, so far as can be arranged, and it is a mistake to devote any part of it to sorting clothes, mending, and soaking clothes, or in any way preparing them for the wash on Monday.

By postponing this work of preparation until Monday, and doing the washing Tuesday, additional leisure will be gained on the day of rest, and there will be time on Monday for the extra cleaning which is always needed after Sunday. Plan daily the doing of some extra piece of work, not a part of the regular routine, such as special cleaning of a bedroom, scouring the bathroom, doing the kitchen, ironing, or polishing silver. If the rooms are gone over thoroughly once each week, doing one or more each day, and merely "tidying" up on the other days, the housekeeper need not worry about her house being clean.

Page 102

In planning for the ironing, a great deal of time and effort can be saved by handling articles a minimum of times. The ironing can be done the day it is washed, except, perhaps, for some of the starched things.

The simple and plain articles can be taken from the line and ironed immediately if they have been hung up straight and free from wrinkles. They can be folded and put away nearly as quickly as they can be crumpled into a clothes basket and kept to be ironed a day or so later. Keep the washing and ironing "done up," and do not let them "stack up."

Not only do we need to have a plan as a working basis for this efficiency, but also a schedule, a definite hour for the assigned task. Begin with the big things and schedule them for the periods which are most fruitful of accomplishment. Do not fritter away your time on trifles, leaving the important task untouched. Prompt dispatching of the task leads to a household run smoothly and efficiently.

Planning, scheduling, and dispatching will cure procrastination, strengthen will power, increase leisure, and promote happiness and harmony in the home. The schedule presented here may be adjusted to the needs of each individual homemaker.

SCHEDULE

MONDAY: 7:00 = Arise and dress Prepare breakfast
8:30 - Serve breakfast for members of the family leaving home at different times.
While breakfast is extending over this hour, the homemaker may assist the smaller children to dress, put up lunches, wash dishes and allow time for extras. With the older children off to school, the mother can turn her attention to at least three good hours of work until lunchtime at 12:00.

9:00 - Straighten front rooms
10:00 - Room may be cleaned routinely.
12:00 - Lunch

1:00 - Dishes and kitchen
2:00 - Rest

11:30 - Bedrooms straightened and beds made for those who cannot make their own. Special work: scrub bathroom thoroughly.

On other days of the week, the bath- 2:30 Each day one or two of the following tasks may be accomplished in the afternoon: shop, mend, visit school, clean basement, attend meetings or clubs, spend part of each day with the children, cook, etc.

TUESDAY: 7:00 - Same as Monday
8:00 - 12:00 Do the washing
12:00 - Lunch

Attend Relief Society meeting at 2 o'clock on this day or on the day on which it is held in the ward or branch. The late afternoon may be used for folding clothes and putting them away, dampening those to be ironed, and beginning the ironing. (Some women may prefer to iron in the evening when there is more time for such a slow task.)

WEDNESDAY: Add to the regular schedule the completing of the ironing, and if there is time, clean one of the bedrooms.

THURSDAY: Clean kitchen thoroughly, including range, refrigerator (defrost), drawers and shelves (a few each week). Continue with cleaning of the bedrooms.

FRIDAY: Thorough weekly cleaning of living room and dining room. Straighten remainder of the house.

SATURDAY: With the children home from school, Saturday should belong to them. It is a good time to train the children to assist with the housework, although, of course, they should have their little daily responsibilities. To get a child to help in the home we must first of all work for his co-operation. This can be cultivated by showing interest in his experiences and enjoyment in his companionship. Begin early to allow him to help, no matter how young. Do not look for perfection. Ask him rather than command him. Make him self-reliant by not waiting on him. Allow him to complete his task without interference from you. Do not lecture him or scold, continually charging him with lack of love and appreciation for all you have done for him. Show your appreciation for the slightest consideration as this will help to build co-operation.

It is desirable to work out, with the family together, what appears to be fair and just. Have the child feel a share of the responsibility of the home. Do not burden Saturday with heavy special cleaning that demands your close attention and entire time. The children can spend half the day with their tasks. The older ones can press and mend their clothes, and do the lunch dishes. The boys can help with housework or work in the yard. Half the day should be allowed them for relaxation music, dance, or other cultural lessons or just time of their own. The children should be on hand to assist with dinner in the evening.

There are many good housekeepers whose tastes and talents are far from domestic, but they have objective in mind and method. Their hoes run like clockwork. They are conscientious with an eye on the purpose for which a hoe is run, and are not diverted. They are able to find time for books and music and other diversions, so that their mental and moral selves are satisfied and they feel blessed.

THE MAGIC WORD EFFICIENCY 103

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1888
"For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ALL Nations"

ITEMS FROM ARIZONA: Once more I have taken up my pen to give your readers a few items from this far off place. The pleasant weather of autumn is past, and winter, grim and cold, is with us, and it has been bitter cold for this usually mild climate.... Our numbers are few here at the present time.... Our Indian neighbors are still quite friendly.... Those who have learned some of the beautiful truths which the gospel teaches are full of faith and have perfect confidence that their sick will be healed through the administration of the elders.... It is quite a curiosity to see the women at work weaving some of the pretty blankets they make. White women would scorn to use such a rude loom and the many little bits of wood with the fancy colored yarn wound on them. The designs are very pretty and so evenly arranged that it seems almost incredible.

Mary S. Burnham

NOTES AND NEWS: Mrs. Eliza Garfield, the late President's mother, who has just died at Mentor, Ohio, age eighty-six, was born in New Hampshire, and moved to Ohio, with her husband, in 1830. A log cabin was built and a farm partly cleared; but her husband soon died, and Mrs. Garfield was left to struggle with many difficulties. She faced them heroically, refused to send her elder children out to work among the neighboring settlers, toiled with her own hands to keep them together under her own eye, and from her they received the first rudiments of an education.

SELECTED STAMINA: To write an article for the paper requires some stamina; to read an article to an audience requires more stamina. To deny ourselves pleasure, to fulfill a promise, requires stamina. To do just right, when very much tempted to do wrong, requires stamina. To get up early on a very cold frosty morning to perform duties, requires stamina....

Some people are like a piece of cloth that is deficient in both warp and woof; they have no stamina. E. S. Barney

WHY STAIN THE SILVER CROWN?
My own locks now are turning gray,
I do not take it hard;
Near forty years of life on earth
Should merit such reward.
And when a few more years have passed,
And faded all the brown,
When I have earned it, let me wear
My own bright silver crown.

Lula

INTERESTING PARTY: Marion, Idaho, is a part of the country better known as Goose Creek. Our Society has been organized about a year.... We have many good times together and excellently well-attended meetings. We take the Exponent, and reading from its columns forms a feature of our gatherings. We wish to tell you of a happy time we recently enjoyed, the occasion being that of a surprise party given Sister Susan K. Greene. A little before noon sixteen members of the Relief Society alighted from their vehicles at Sister Greene's door, laden with lunch baskets and cheery smiles. After the greetings were over and all seated, a hymn was sung, after which a poem composed for Sister Greene was read.... The sisters presented Sister Greene a token of love and appreciation in the form of a purse and its contents.

Fanny Gorringe
Page 104

Woman's Sphere
Ramona W. Cannon

We cannot but feel that the hand of destiny guided the early history of America, a sacred land which was being prepared for the consummation of a sacred plan, the coming forth of God's kingdom in the latter days. George Washington was a key figure in that history. Yet, had it not been for the love he bore his mother, he would probably have been fighting on the British side in the Revolution. Influenced by his older brother Lawrence, an officer in the British Navy, he was ready to depart from his home to become a midshipman in the British Navy. However, seeing his mother grief-stricken at the thought of parting with him, the youth gave up his desire, remained with her, and became a patriot when the war broke out.

Mrs. Washington had been a widow since George was eleven years old.

At the Pacific International Livestock Exposition, held in Portland, Oregon, in October, four Salt Lake County 4-H Club girls won blue ribbons, and for all of them it was the third time to receive this honor. They are: Aileen Fowler, Crescent; Karen Wright, Midvale; Charlene Lind, Midvale; and Donna Mae Feulner, Magna.

At the recent National 4-H Club Congress, Elaine de St. Joer, seventeen, Pleasant View, Utah, was named national 4-H Club winner in home improvements, receiving a scholarship of $200.

At the "Girls' State" Camp in Logan sponsored by the American Legion, girls were taught citizenship by taking over the reins of government. This is a most useful enterprise.

Pauline Jensen, of Hyrum, was Utah delegate to "Girls' Nation," the national camp, held in Washington, D.C.

Nikoline's Choice, Margaret Maw's autobiographical story of pioneering in Utah, published by the Oxford Press, is having good nationwide sales. An educator herself, Mrs. Maw knows the art of making a story so vivid that the reader immediately identifies himself with the young protagonist. Pioneer skills used in daily living are made lucid and fascinating. Written for girls of eight to thirteen, the book is equally interesting for adults.

The story relates circumstances where one struggle follows on the heels of another, with eventual triumph.

For several successive years Mrs. Maw was president of the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, and of the Western Federation.

ISS
Mary Rose Allen, Executive Secretary, Utah Association for the United Nations, was an observer for Utah in several meetings of the United Nations delegates at Lake Success. She found Madame Pandit, of India, one of the most intelligent and interesting members.

Editorial

Vol. 35 February 1948 No. 2
Women and Their Apparel

THE moving stream of human aspirations carries the individual woman along a tide over which she often exercises little control. Dazzling advantages seem to beckon to those who follow, without question, decisions which govern the majority. Often there is little apparent benefit to be secured from the integrity of individual decision. Yet each woman is faced with the vital necessity of achieving for herself a harmony between group attitudes and her own evaluation of proper procedure.

A question of great importance in a woman's life is her selection of apparel. Changes in fashions are nearly always radical and sudden, and the woman who follows the extremes of a my mode will, therefore, find herself in a most embarrassing situation. If skirts have been short, they become long; if they have been tight, they become full; if they have been overly ornamented, they become plain and severe. The purpose of this abrupt turn-about is obvious: all the clothing which constitutes a woman's present wardrobe must be made to appear so old-fashioned, and therefore undesirable, that she will feel the necessity of having a complete new wardrobe. Such a decision may be disastrous to the family budget, and often the woman who thinks that she must make the change immediately so that she will be in the vanguard of those who have hastily espoused the "new" look, is so disturbed that the problem may seem overwhelming.

The folly of woman's dress does not lie in her desire to make herself beautiful, but rather in her ignorance or distortion of the true and lasting principles of beauty, and in her lack of recognition of the inescapable relationship between utility and beauty. It is evident that a set of dependable values is necessary for women to recognize before they can decide what to accept and what to discard among the bewildering choices which are placed before them.

The suitability of a dress depends upon the occasion for which it is to be worn. A long, trailing hostess gown, although in so-called style, most certainly is not fitting to wear for garden work, for cooking, or for housecleaning. Long, loose sleeves are a real menace around a washing machine or a stove. Moreover, voluminous clothing is more expensive, due to increased yardage, the longer time required in the making, and the difficulty in keeping it clean. Clothes which are plain and simple, and yet loose enough to permit freedom of movement, are more suitable.

Regardless of the mode of the moment, the beauty of a dress depends upon fabric, line, and color. Velvet is still as beautiful as it was when worn by the Elizabethan ladies. Knee-length skirts have never improved the appearance of any woman, and they have done much to detract from feminine grace and modesty.

The ethics of a woman's wardrobe should be governed by a recognition of her financial status, the needs of her family, and the needs of others for whom she should feel a responsibility. Motives of competition, rivalry, and exhibitionism in the selection of clothes are certainly not becoming to any woman, and often result in unhappiness.

There is nothing which should compel a woman to discard her entire wardrobe at the first appearance of radically different styles. There is wisdom in the saying, "Be not the first by whom the new is tried, nor yet the last to lay the old aside." There is even greater wisdom in being able to retain the customs of the past which are of proved worth, and to accept from the present only that which enhances one's appearance or one's comfort, and that which is in harmony with an individual's financial and social status, and in keeping with one's responsibilities to those who are in need.

V. P. C.

Congratulations to President Amy Brown Lyman On Her Birthday February 7th

RELIEF Society women throughout the Church are happy to unite again in wishing health and joy to President Amy Brown Lyman whose devoted service to womanhood is greatly appreciated. This year, particularly, members of Relief Society wish to express their gratitude to Sister Lyman for the excellent biography of Alice Louise Reynolds A Lighter of Lamps which has recently been printed by the Deseret News Press. The book is a beautifully expressed tribute and life story.

Sister Reynolds, a dear friend and close associate of President Lyman, was a member of the General Board of Relief Society from 1923 to 1930, during which time she served as associate editor and, later, as editor of TheAn outstanding and delightful keen analysis and deep appreciation of the character of Alice Louise Reynolds, a dynamic leader of women, a student, teacher, traveler, lecturer, writer, and loyal and beloved friend.

Prefacing the biography, Elder Bryant S. Hinckley expresses appreciation for Sister Lyman's careful and inspired work on the biography: "Reading it has been a delight all the way through; for you have told the story of this noble woman with a fidelity and an understanding that you, and only you, could do." This book is a further contribution of Sister Lyman to the preservation of the record of the work and accomplishments of Latter-day Saint women.

Notes to THE FIELD Bound Volumes of s Temporary Binders Available

RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1947 issues of Thebound may do so through the office of the General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $1.75; including the index. Substantial temporary binders, into which single copies of the Magazine for one year may be inserted or removed at will, are available for $1.20 postpaid. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1947 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. No Magazines for binding are available at the office of the General Board.

Watch This Month wees the month stamped along with your address on every copy of the Magazine you receive. It shows the month in which yoursubscription expires. By watching this month, you can renew your subscription early enough so that no issues of the Magazine will be missed. Renewal subscriptions must be received at this office one full month in advance of expiration in order to avoid missing an issue.

PRAYER FOR A SON

LeRoy Burke Meagher
Give me a son who loves to run With life full in his face, Likes dogs and lanes and quiet rains And kites the breezes race; Who knows the creed of earth and seed, And tends the precious flame Of faith with care, by daily prayer In Jesus' holy name.

Page 108

The Parking Lot Home Sweet Home Gail Johnson
WATCHING the delicate old lady rock in the creaking chair, and seeing the gray head of the man leaning forward as he concentrated on a piece of wood he whittled, callous newspaper correspondent that I was, f was suddenly embarrassed. "There's not much we can do about it, Miss. That board of men thinks we're fightin' Irishmen holdin' out for a higher price. They just don't seem to understand." He held the piece of wood eye level, scrutinizing it carefully.

The silence blended with uncertain shadows cast against dark walls, and no sign of summer sunshine found its way into the bleak and dreary room. At last he went on, "Sire I'd be glad to sell the house, only it's like I told them, it's all we have. The insurance We get gives US enough to get by on, but this house is our home.."

"When we built this house forty years ago," he continued, looking at me closely, "there were other houses here, too, but now we've the only one left, and the heart of town is around us." The gray head moved from side to side. "Have changed since then."

"They offered you $2,000 for this strip, didn't they? Couldn't you buy another place with that?" My suggestion sounded not only feeble, but impertinent, once it was voiced, and I regretted speaking.

"We raised seven children in this house and two of them were taken from us under this very roof." Maggie McRae's voice was as fragile as her veined, slim fingers which toyed with the cameo at the high neck of her black sateen dress. "We just can't part with the happiness and tears of a lifetime for any price. Those are things we couldn't sell."

Her eyes smiled toward her husband, and, without knowing why, that glance between them made me understand.

The deep voice took up the recital, "When that big company bought this block for a department store and parking lot, some men came here and tried every way to make us see their point of view. That was simple enough, but they didn't seem to be able to see outside of it." The house is on the forty-five-foot line. Guess you know the rest, about how they built the wall across the pack and along the two sides of the house."

Yes, I knew the rest. When the big corporation's plans to dismantle Mike and Maggie McRae's home for the construction of a parking lot had gone awry, the corporation had built a brick wall, roof high, around three sides of the little dwelling.

The too severely they had thousands of dollars invested in their new building and a forty-year-old house nestled in the middle of their concrete parking lot looked preposterous. As a reporter, I knew this, but my heart went out to this helpless couple destined to spend their few remaining years in a dusky glow.

When I left them that morning to go back to the paper, I carried with me thick notes for the human interest yarn for which I had been sent, but my pity erased the feeling of a job well done.

My only thought was of the McRaes in their parking-lot home. During the ensuing ten months the McRaes often touched my thoughts, and I recalled them with tenderness and concern. At each remembrance my uneasiness about their welfare became more personal. Finally, my desire to know how they were faring came near to becoming an obsession. In my memory the lines and features of the aged face of Maggie McRae were as finely chiseled as the expert workmanship of the gold encircled cameo pinned against the high neck of her dress. The silver hair, coiled in a circular roll atop her head, I recalled, was the smartest of coiffures of today. I felt, however, that she had been childishly unaware of any claim of being modern. During my visit she had had eyes only for the knitting needles, expertly propelled by her veined hands. I pictured the house and the people so well, so clearly. Ike was equally a part of the picture. His thick white hair encircled by a halo of futility brought a lump to my throat as I recalled his need for a warmer sweater or sturdier carpet slippers. At last my feature writing career gave me the opportunity of returning to Montana for a follow-up story the next year. My editor ordered an assignment on the old Broadwater Hotel in Helena, near where the McRaes lived. Broadwater had been the Saratoga of the West and the solid gold doorknobs, of which it had boasted, had been turned by early statesmen. Our rooms still held dusty, frayed elegance of the last decade. Because of these musty fragments, I found myself again aboard a plane, covering the miles toward Montana and the McRaes. Two days later, the assignment finished and sent on its way to the office, I was on my way to Great Falls.

"I'm going to see what has happened to the McRaes at last," I said to myself. From Helena, by air, it is a scant half-hour trip. I was no sooner settled in my seat than the light instructing all passengers to fasten their safety belts was flashed.

WHEN I had finally been deposited at the hotel by the airline limousine, had checked into an air-cooled room, and had freshened up, I started for the street to see with my own eyes the house with the wall, silently praying that I would find it as I had left it the year before.

As I paused at the hotel desk to leave my key, it would have been simple to inquire of the clerk or Mr. Walter, the hotel manager, as to the whereabouts of the McRaes. Yet, somehow, I had become sentimental about the dwelling and the people inhabiting it and didn't want to discuss it, for fear I'd be told it was gone. So, I smiled in response to the desk clerk's greeting and said nothing.

Strolling seemed preferable to hurrying to my destination. I wasn't sure if it was because I wanted to window-shop or because I dreaded, now that I was nearly there, what I might find.

At last I stood still, seeing in real life that building and home which had been in my mind for the past year.

Yes, the wall still stood, but the gray house was gone!

The strip of ground leading to what I had come to see was now as if measured from a giant bolt of green velvet! A wire fence, the height of the adjoining brick wall ran on both sides of the strip and across the front, along the street where I stood. A swinging gate was the sole entrance to the enclosure and seemed to invite me to enter, as did a white house with green shutters, meeting my stare of disbelief.

I pushed the gate half open, then paused. It was changed, perhaps I'd regret going farther.

Suddenly I had to know, and the gate swung behind me. The grass was smooth and well-kept and flowers bloomed. I stopped before the house. There hadn't been a porch before, I remembered clearly, but now three steps led onto a small veranda. Half reticently, my knuckles rapped the door.

A shuffling sound from within told me the door would soon be opened. It was, and there stood Mr. McRae. Leaning a shade forward, he squinted, trying to recognize me in the early dimness of evening.

Relief held me silent, but finally released the reins of tension, and I spoke. "Remember me, Mr. McRae?" I asked. "I was here last summer from the Midwest Magazine?"

Tears were in the way of both my vision and my voice.

His Irish face lighted up and he extended a gnarled hand, pulling me over the threshold.

My eyes clung to his sweet smile and I was unaware of another presence until I felt an arm around my waist. Looking down at the kindly old lady, I couldn't resist kissing the wrinkled forehead.

BETWEEN them I was drawn into an old-fashioned room, but it was no longer dreary and threadbare. Ruffled tie-back curtains replaced the beige lace previously covering the panes, and soft green walls added warmth.

I blinked amazed eyes, and my ears were deaf to what their voices were saying as I heeded the changes in the cozy room.

What has happened? I asked myself.

Finally, Father McRae's voice broke through my preoccupation. His blue eyes were dancing. "Here is another story, Miss?" he asked. I nodded, too amazed to speak. "Sure'n we've got one for you this time," he continued, "all thanks to you and that story you wrote about us the last time you were here." Like lights on a Christmas tree in an otherwise darkened room, his face fairly twinkled. The old, dejected look was gone, and I knew the sadness had disappeared forever.

"You just settle yourself right here and Mike will tell you all about it," said Mother McRae. "I'll fix you some milk and a piece of cake. It's delightful to see you again, my dear, and we owe you so much." Mrs. McRae patted my shoulder, then left the room.

"Really, I can't believe what I see," my head indicated the whole room. "It's wonderful, and you both look so well and happy. As a matter of fact, you look quite dapper in that sport sweater you're wearing, Mr. McRae." The smile I felt on the inside was bursting forth on the outside.

"Oh, I can't tell you how happy it makes me to find you like this!" "No more happy than it makes us to know you've remembered us, Miss," he replied. "You know, things seemed to change for us from the minute you were here. Now that you're back we have to celebrate. That's why Mother is fixing us a party." He half-whispered, as though it was our private joke.

IKE McRAE spread a newspaper at his feet, and picking up a piece of wood and his jackknife, whittled as he began, "Shortly after you left, Miss, the corporation offered us $3,000 for our strip, but in spite of it we just couldn't sell. Like we told you, money could never buy the years we have invested here." And so the story unfolded. Curiosity seekers had begun coming to their door to see what strange species of mankind lived within the arms of the brick wall. Tourists had come to make it as much a "must" on their list of what to see as they had the Giant Spring, pouring forth its gallons of water every minute, or the smelting plant of the Anaconda Copper Mining Company. Days that had been uneventful, now became something to anticipate, and anticipation had become a vitamin. Miniature wooden animals Mike had carved were bought and sent over the country. Knitting needles had created bed jackets and baby sweaters to fill the lagging days of old age. As the days passed those handmade articles sold for a tidy sum, and the stiffening fingers had many orders to fill. "Guess somebody wanted to be more'n good to us." He was silent for a moment, but, realizing that his story wasn't finished, I waited. "That's the cake part of it," he finally continued, "now for the frosting. People used to leave their kiddies in their cars while they went in and did their shopping. Y'know what?" His eyes crinkled in amusement, and he pointed the carving he held in his hand toward me. "Some of those cute little tykes could just barely toddle and others were nearly grown youngsters, but they all began coming over to take a peek at the house with the wall. It fascinated them. It got so Mother was making cookies nearly every day so we'd have a treat on hand for our little guests. Finally, lots of the mothers came with them and the same ones came time after time. Sure'n they would. Before long Mr. Elwood, he's the manager of the store, called us again. Mother just laughed, because now so many nice people came here every day, we'd never sell." His pause was only a second long. "Y'know, people write us letters and we get postcards, too, something every day. We like the colored postcards best, though. We even had one sent to us from England and one from Mexico City." He hesitated again, wondering if I was duly impressed. I was! "Anyway, back to Mr. Elwood. We told him we still wouldn't sell. Well, not fifteen minutes later, who do you suppose knocked at the door? Sure'n it was Mr. Elwood. This time his proposition was different." Now he settled back and ceased his carving. "He offered to plant the grass and put the fence around the property; besides, he said he'd pay us $65 a month, if people who came to his store to shop could leave their 3 children here while they were in the store. Mother, right off, said 'yes.' "We've gotten so we like Mr. Elwood real well. He often drops over in the afternoon to pass the time of day and have a glass of milk or a cookie and talk to any of the little folks calling on us. Y'know, we even get a discount on everything we buy in Mr. Elwood's store!" Plainly life was being good to the McRacs, and I was relieved of the mental cross I had borne concerning them. As if from a distance, I heard Mike's voice again and it was steeped in wonderment. "Sure'n because 'we couldn't get around that brick wall it brought us more happiness than we ever dreamed was possible." His head swayed from side to side as he resumed his whittling. Again, I lost all semblance of my profession and my eyes felt tear-trouble coming on again. My heart was beating overtime for the oldsters in the "Parking-Lot Home Sweet Home."

FOR THE YEARS AHEAD
Beatrice K. Ekman

I dreamed of you last night,
I felt your kiss
Laid in a mute caress upon my lips,
And time rolled back.
Love knows no artifice;
Your arms became my haven.
Storm that whips
My little venture boats to Charybdis,
Imperils me no more, nor sinks my ships,
When dreams can bring to me such armistice
To bridge the years, to bridge the years, like this.

And when on lonely roads my feet are set,
Your love will be my brimming cup, my bread.
Your name shall be a sacred amulet
To give me courage for the years ahead.
Your faith in me is white, consuming fire
To keep my heart from all but pure desire.

ADOPTED
Dorothy II. Porter

Adopted yes!
But, oh that word
Means all the world to me,
It puts the rainbows in my sky,
And white sails on the sea.
In every hour of every day,
I strive to let them know
How very much they've changed my life,
Because they love me so.

The "Home" just wasn't home to me,
My childish heart so longed
To have a mother of my own,
A place where I belonged.
So when folks say, "Adopted?"
I proudly cry, "You see,
They didn't have to have me,
They picked me specially."

SHALL NOT WALK ALONE
Evelyn \Wooster Viner

1 shall not walk alone
Through all the coming years;
I shall not falter at the load,
Nor mind too much the salty tears
Upon my lips.
Though you should need to sail
The seven storm-lashed seas;
Though you should slip beyond the veil,
Into the great mysterious unknown,
Whence none return, I still would hold the precious jewel
Of your love;
No time nor space could dim the bliss
Of our good life, however brief.
I still should feel eternally your kiss
Upon my lips.

Page 114

Collecting Antique Chairs