Home Sweet Home Gail Johnson
WATCHING the delicate old lady rock in the creaking chair, and seeing the gray head of the man leaning forward as he concentrated on a piece of wood he whittled, callous newspaper correspondent that I was, f was suddenly embarrassed. "There's not much we can do about it, Miss. That board of men thinks we're fightin' Irishmen holdin' out for a higher price. They just don't seem to understand." He held the piece of wood eye level, scrutinizing it carefully.

The silence blended with uncertain shadows cast against dark walls, and no sign of summer sunshine found its way into the bleak and dreary room. At last he went on, "Sire I'd be glad to sell the house, only it's like I told them, it's all we have. The insurance We get gives US enough to get by on, but this house is our home.."

"When we built this house forty years ago," he continued, looking at me closely, "there were other houses here, too, but now we've the only one left, and the heart of town is around us." The gray head moved from side to side. "Have changed since then."

"They offered you $2,000 for this strip, didn't they? Couldn't you buy another place with that?" My suggestion sounded not only feeble, but impertinent, once it was voiced, and I regretted speaking.

"We raised seven children in this house and two of them were taken from us under this very roof." Maggie McRae's voice was as fragile as her veined, slim fingers which toyed with the cameo at the high neck of her black sateen dress. "We just can't part with the happiness and tears of a lifetime for any price. Those are things we couldn't sell."

Her eyes smiled toward her husband, and, without knowing why, that glance between them made me understand.

The deep voice took up the recital, "When that big company bought this block for a department store and parking lot, some men came here and tried every way to make us see their point of view. That was simple enough, but they didn't seem to be able to see outside of it." The house is on the forty-five-foot line. Guess you know the rest, about how they built the wall across the pack and along the two sides of the house."

Yes, I knew the rest. When the big corporation's plans to dismantle Mike and Maggie McRae's home for the construction of a parking lot had gone awry, the corporation had built a brick wall, roof high, around three sides of the little dwelling.

The too severely they had thousands of dollars invested in their new building and a forty-year-old house nestled in the middle of their concrete parking lot looked preposterous. As a reporter, I knew this, but my heart went out to this helpless couple destined to spend their few remaining years in a dusky glow.

When I left them that morning to go back to the paper, I carried with me thick notes for the human interest yarn for which I had been sent, but my pity erased the feeling of a job well done.

My only thought was of the McRaes in their parking-lot home. During the ensuing ten months the McRaes often touched my thoughts, and I recalled them with tenderness and concern. At each remembrance my uneasiness about their welfare became more personal. Finally, my desire to know how they were faring came near to becoming an obsession. In my memory the lines and features of the aged face of Maggie McRae were as finely chiseled as the expert workmanship of the gold encircled cameo pinned against the high neck of her dress. The silver hair, coiled in a circular roll atop her head, I recalled, was the smartest of coiffures of today. I felt, however, that she had been childishly unaware of any claim of being modern. During my visit she had had eyes only for the knitting needles, expertly propelled by her veined hands. I pictured the house and the people so well, so clearly. Ike was equally a part of the picture. His thick white hair encircled by a halo of futility brought a lump to my throat as I recalled his need for a warmer sweater or sturdier carpet slippers. At last my feature writing career gave me the opportunity of returning to Montana for a follow-up story the next year. My editor ordered an assignment on the old Broadwater Hotel in Helena, near where the McRaes lived. Broadwater had been the Saratoga of the West and the solid gold doorknobs, of which it had boasted, had been turned by early statesmen. Our rooms still held dusty, frayed elegance of the last decade. Because of these musty fragments, I found myself again aboard a plane, covering the miles toward Montana and the McRaes. Two days later, the assignment finished and sent on its way to the office, I was on my way to Great Falls.

"I'm going to see what has happened to the McRaes at last," I said to myself. From Helena, by air, it is a scant half-hour trip. I was no sooner settled in my seat than the light instructing all passengers to fasten their safety belts was flashed.

WHEN I had finally been deposited at the hotel by the airline limousine, had checked into an air-cooled room, and had freshened up, I started for the street to see with my own eyes the house with the wall, silently praying that I would find it as I had left it the year before.

As I paused at the hotel desk to leave my key, it would have been simple to inquire of the clerk or Mr. Walter, the hotel manager, as to the whereabouts of the McRaes. Yet, somehow, I had become sentimental about the dwelling and the people inhabiting it and didn't want to discuss it, for fear I'd be told it was gone. So, I smiled in response to the desk clerk's greeting and said nothing.

Strolling seemed preferable to hurrying to my destination. I wasn't sure if it was because I wanted to window-shop or because I dreaded, now that I was nearly there, what I might find.

At last I stood still, seeing in real life that building and home which had been in my mind for the past year.

Yes, the wall still stood, but the gray house was gone!

The strip of ground leading to what I had come to see was now as if measured from a giant bolt of green velvet! A wire fence, the height of the adjoining brick wall ran on both sides of the strip and across the front, along the street where I stood. A swinging gate was the sole entrance to the enclosure and seemed to invite me to enter, as did a white house with green shutters, meeting my stare of disbelief.

I pushed the gate half open, then paused. It was changed, perhaps I'd regret going farther.

Suddenly I had to know, and the gate swung behind me. The grass was smooth and well-kept and flowers bloomed. I stopped before the house. There hadn't been a porch before, I remembered clearly, but now three steps led onto a small veranda. Half reticently, my knuckles rapped the door.

A shuffling sound from within told me the door would soon be opened. It was, and there stood Mr. McRae. Leaning a shade forward, he squinted, trying to recognize me in the early dimness of evening.

Relief held me silent, but finally released the reins of tension, and I spoke. "Remember me, Mr. McRae?" I asked. "I was here last summer from the Midwest Magazine?"

Tears were in the way of both my vision and my voice.

His Irish face lighted up and he extended a gnarled hand, pulling me over the threshold.

My eyes clung to his sweet smile and I was unaware of another presence until I felt an arm around my waist. Looking down at the kindly old lady, I couldn't resist kissing the wrinkled forehead.

BETWEEN them I was drawn into an old-fashioned room, but it was no longer dreary and threadbare. Ruffled tie-back curtains replaced the beige lace previously covering the panes, and soft green walls added warmth.

I blinked amazed eyes, and my ears were deaf to what their voices were saying as I heeded the changes in the cozy room.

What has happened? I asked myself.

Finally, Father McRae's voice broke through my preoccupation. His blue eyes were dancing. "Here is another story, Miss?" he asked. I nodded, too amazed to speak. "Sure'n we've got one for you this time," he continued, "all thanks to you and that story you wrote about us the last time you were here." Like lights on a Christmas tree in an otherwise darkened room, his face fairly twinkled. The old, dejected look was gone, and I knew the sadness had disappeared forever.

"You just settle yourself right here and Mike will tell you all about it," said Mother McRae. "I'll fix you some milk and a piece of cake. It's delightful to see you again, my dear, and we owe you so much." Mrs. McRae patted my shoulder, then left the room.

"Really, I can't believe what I see," my head indicated the whole room. "It's wonderful, and you both look so well and happy. As a matter of fact, you look quite dapper in that sport sweater you're wearing, Mr. McRae." The smile I felt on the inside was bursting forth on the outside.

"Oh, I can't tell you how happy it makes me to find you like this!" "No more happy than it makes us to know you've remembered us, Miss," he replied. "You know, things seemed to change for us from the minute you were here. Now that you're back we have to celebrate. That's why Mother is fixing us a party." He half-whispered, as though it was our private joke.

IKE McRAE spread a newspaper at his feet, and picking up a piece of wood and his jackknife, whittled as he began, "Shortly after you left, Miss, the corporation offered us $3,000 for our strip, but in spite of it we just couldn't sell. Like we told you, money could never buy the years we have invested here." And so the story unfolded. Curiosity seekers had begun coming to their door to see what strange species of mankind lived within the arms of the brick wall. Tourists had come to make it as much a "must" on their list of what to see as they had the Giant Spring, pouring forth its gallons of water every minute, or the smelting plant of the Anaconda Copper Mining Company. Days that had been uneventful, now became something to anticipate, and anticipation had become a vitamin. Miniature wooden animals Mike had carved were bought and sent over the country. Knitting needles had created bed jackets and baby sweaters to fill the lagging days of old age. As the days passed those handmade articles sold for a tidy sum, and the stiffening fingers had many orders to fill. "Guess somebody wanted to be more'n good to us." He was silent for a moment, but, realizing that his story wasn't finished, I waited. "That's the cake part of it," he finally continued, "now for the frosting. People used to leave their kiddies in their cars while they went in and did their shopping. Y'know what?" His eyes crinkled in amusement, and he pointed the carving he held in his hand toward me. "Some of those cute little tykes could just barely toddle and others were nearly grown youngsters, but they all began coming over to take a peek at the house with the wall. It fascinated them. It got so Mother was making cookies nearly every day so we'd have a treat on hand for our little guests. Finally, lots of the mothers came with them and the same ones came time after time. Sure'n they would. Before long Mr. Elwood, he's the manager of the store, called us again. Mother just laughed, because now so many nice people came here every day, we'd never sell." His pause was only a second long. "Y'know, people write us letters and we get postcards, too, something every day. We like the colored postcards best, though. We even had one sent to us from England and one from Mexico City." He hesitated again, wondering if I was duly impressed. I was! "Anyway, back to Mr. Elwood. We told him we still wouldn't sell. Well, not fifteen minutes later, who do you suppose knocked at the door? Sure'n it was Mr. Elwood. This time his proposition was different." Now he settled back and ceased his carving. "He offered to plant the grass and put the fence around the property; besides, he said he'd pay us $65 a month, if people who came to his store to shop could leave their 3 children here while they were in the store. Mother, right off, said 'yes.' "We've gotten so we like Mr. Elwood real well. He often drops over in the afternoon to pass the time of day and have a glass of milk or a cookie and talk to any of the little folks calling on us. Y'know, we even get a discount on everything we buy in Mr. Elwood's store!" Plainly life was being good to the McRacs, and I was relieved of the mental cross I had borne concerning them. As if from a distance, I heard Mike's voice again and it was steeped in wonderment. "Sure'n because 'we couldn't get around that brick wall it brought us more happiness than we ever dreamed was possible." His head swayed from side to side as he resumed his whittling. Again, I lost all semblance of my profession and my eyes felt tear-trouble coming on again. My heart was beating overtime for the oldsters in the "Parking-Lot Home Sweet Home."

FOR THE YEARS AHEAD
Beatrice K. Ekman

I dreamed of you last night,
I felt your kiss
Laid in a mute caress upon my lips,
And time rolled back.
Love knows no artifice;
Your arms became my haven.
Storm that whips
My little venture boats to Charybdis,
Imperils me no more, nor sinks my ships,
When dreams can bring to me such armistice
To bridge the years, to bridge the years, like this.

And when on lonely roads my feet are set,
Your love will be my brimming cup, my bread.
Your name shall be a sacred amulet
To give me courage for the years ahead.
Your faith in me is white, consuming fire
To keep my heart from all but pure desire.

ADOPTED
Dorothy II. Porter

Adopted yes!
But, oh that word
Means all the world to me,
It puts the rainbows in my sky,
And white sails on the sea.
In every hour of every day,
I strive to let them know
How very much they've changed my life,
Because they love me so.

The "Home" just wasn't home to me,
My childish heart so longed
To have a mother of my own,
A place where I belonged.
So when folks say, "Adopted?"
I proudly cry, "You see,
They didn't have to have me,
They picked me specially."

SHALL NOT WALK ALONE
Evelyn \Wooster Viner

1 shall not walk alone
Through all the coming years;
I shall not falter at the load,
Nor mind too much the salty tears
Upon my lips.
Though you should need to sail
The seven storm-lashed seas;
Though you should slip beyond the veil,
Into the great mysterious unknown,
Whence none return, I still would hold the precious jewel
Of your love;
No time nor space could dim the bliss
Of our good life, however brief.
I still should feel eternally your kiss
Upon my lips.

Page 114

Collecting Antique Chairs