Title: Elizabeth
Author: Williamson
Page: 115
Section: SPECIAL FEATURES

Elizabethan ladies. Knee-length skirts have never improved the appearance of any woman, and they have done much to detract from feminine grace and modesty.

The ethics of a woman's wardrobe should be governed by a recognition of her financial status, the needs of her family, and the needs of others for whom she should feel a responsibility. Motives of competition, rivalry, and exhibitionism in the selection of clothes are certainly not becoming to any woman, and often result in unhappiness.

There is nothing which should compel a woman to discard her entire wardrobe at the first appearance of radically different styles. There is wisdom in the saying, "Be not the first by whom the new is tried, nor yet the last to lay the old aside." There is even greater wisdom in being able to retain the customs of the past which are of proved worth, and to accept from the present only that which enhances one's appearance or one's comfort, and that which is in harmony with an individual's financial and social status, and in keeping with one's responsibilities to those who are in need.

V. P. C.

Congratulations to President Amy Brown Lyman On Her Birthday February 7th

RELIEF Society women throughout the Church are happy to unite again in wishing health and joy to President Amy Brown Lyman whose devoted service to womanhood is greatly appreciated. This year, particularly, members of Relief Society wish to express their gratitude to Sister Lyman for the excellent biography of Alice Louise Reynolds A Lighter of Lamps which has recently been printed by the Deseret News Press. The book is a beautifully expressed tribute and life story.

Sister Reynolds, a dear friend and close associate of President Lyman, was a member of the General Board of Relief Society from 1923 to 1930, during which time she served as associate editor and, later, as editor of The Relief Society Magazine. An outstanding and delightful keen analysis and deep appreciation of the character of Alice Louise Reynolds, a dynamic leader of women, a student, teacher, traveler, lecturer, writer, and loyal and beloved friend.

Prefacing the biography, Elder Bryant S. Hinckley expresses appreciation for Sister Lyman's careful and inspired work on the biography: "Reading it has been a delight all the way through; for you have told the story of this noble woman with a fidelity and an understanding that you, and only you, could do." This book is a further contribution of Sister Lyman to the preservation of the record of the work and accomplishments of Latter-day Saint women.

Notes to THE FIELD Bound Volumes of 1947 Relief Society Magazines Temporary Binders Available

RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1947 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through the office of the General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $1.75; including the index. Substantial temporary binders, into which single copies of the Magazine for one year may be inserted or removed at will, are available for $1.20 postpaid. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1947 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. No Magazines for binding are available at the office of the General Board.

Watch This Month wees the month stamped along with your address on every copy of the Magazine you receive. It shows the month in which your Relief Society Magazine subscription expires. By watching this month, you can renew your subscription early enough so that no issues of the Magazine will be missed. Renewal subscriptions must be received at this office one full month in advance of expiration in order to avoid missing an issue.

PRAYER FOR A SON

LeRoy Burke Meagher
Give me a son who loves to run With life full in his face, Likes dogs and lanes and quiet rains And kites the breezes race; Who knows the creed of earth and seed, And tends the precious flame Of faith with care, by daily prayer In Jesus' holy name.

Page 108

The Parking Lot Home Sweet Home Gail Johnson
WATCHING the delicate old lady rock in the creaking chair, and seeing the gray head of the man leaning forward as he concentrated on a piece of wood he whittled, callous newspaper correspondent that I was, f was suddenly embarrassed. "There's not much we can do about it, Miss. That board of men thinks we're fightin' Irishmen holdin' out for a higher price. They just don't seem to understand." He held the piece of wood eye level, scrutinizing it carefully.

The silence blended with uncertain shadows cast against dark walls, and no sign of summer sunshine found its way into the bleak and dreary room. At last he went on, "Sire I'd be glad to sell the house, only it's like I told them, it's all we have. The insurance We get gives US enough to get by on, but this house is our home.."

"When we built this house forty years ago," he continued, looking at me closely, "there were other houses here, too, but now we've the only one left, and the heart of town is around us." The gray head moved from side to side. "Have changed since then."

"They offered you $2,000 for this strip, didn't they? Couldn't you buy another place with that?" My suggestion sounded not only feeble, but impertinent, once it was voiced, and I regretted speaking.

"We raised seven children in this house and two of them were taken from us under this very roof." Maggie McRae's voice was as fragile as her veined, slim fingers which toyed with the cameo at the high neck of her black sateen dress. "We just can't part with the happiness and tears of a lifetime for any price. Those are things we couldn't sell."

Her eyes smiled toward her husband, and, without knowing why, that glance between them made me understand.

The deep voice took up the recital, "When that big company bought this block for a department store and parking lot, some men came here and tried every way to make us see their point of view. That was simple enough, but they didn't seem to be able to see outside of it." The house is on the forty-five-foot line. Guess you know the rest, about how they built the wall across the pack and along the two sides of the house."

Yes, I knew the rest. When the big corporation's plans to dismantle Mike and Maggie McRae's home for the construction of a parking lot had gone awry, the corporation had built a brick wall, roof high, around three sides of the little dwelling.

The too severely they had thousands of dollars invested in their new building and a forty-year-old house nestled in the middle of their concrete parking lot looked preposterous. As a reporter, I knew this, but my heart went out to this helpless couple destined to spend their few remaining years in a dusky glow.

When I left them that morning to go back to the paper, I carried with me thick notes for the human interest yarn for which I had been sent, but my pity erased the feeling of a job well done.

My only thought was of the McRaes in their parking-lot home. During the ensuing ten months the McRaes often touched my thoughts, and I recalled them with tenderness and concern. At each remembrance my uneasiness about their welfare became more personal. Finally, my desire to know how they were faring came near to becoming an obsession. In my memory the lines and features of the aged face of Maggie McRae were as finely chiseled as the expert workmanship of the gold encircled cameo pinned against the high neck of her dress. The silver hair, coiled in a circular roll atop her head, I recalled, was the smartest of coiffures of today. I felt, however, that she had been childishly unaware of any claim of being modern. During my visit she had had eyes only for the knitting needles, expertly propelled by her veined hands. I pictured the house and the people so well, so clearly. Ike was equally a part of the picture. His thick white hair encircled by a halo of futility brought a lump to my throat as I recalled his need for a warmer sweater or sturdier carpet slippers. At last my feature writing career gave me the opportunity of returning to Montana for a follow-up story the next year. My editor ordered an assignment on the old Broadwater Hotel in Helena, near where the McRaes lived. Broadwater had been the Saratoga of the West and the solid gold doorknobs, of which it had boasted, had been turned by early statesmen. Our rooms still held dusty, frayed elegance of the last decade. Because of these musty fragments, I found myself again aboard a plane, covering the miles toward Montana and the McRaes. Two days later, the assignment finished and sent on its way to the office, I was on my way to Great Falls.

"I'm going to see what has happened to the McRaes at last," I said to myself. From Helena, by air, it is a scant half-hour trip. I was no sooner settled in my seat than the light instructing all passengers to fasten their safety belts was flashed.

WHEN I had finally been deposited at the hotel by the airline limousine, had checked into an air-cooled room, and had freshened up, I started for the street to see with my own eyes the house with the wall, silently praying that I would find it as I had left it the year before.

As I paused at the hotel desk to leave my key, it would have been simple to inquire of the clerk or Mr. Walter, the hotel manager, as to the whereabouts of the McRaes. Yet, somehow, I had become sentimental about the dwelling and the people inhabiting it and didn't want to discuss it, for fear I'd be told it was gone. So, I smiled in response to the desk clerk's greeting and said nothing.

Strolling seemed preferable to hurrying to my destination. I wasn't sure if it was because I wanted to window-shop or because I dreaded, now that I was nearly there, what I might find.

At last I stood still, seeing in real life that building and home which had been in my mind for the past year.

Yes, the wall still stood, but the gray house was gone!

The strip of ground leading to what I had come to see was now as if measured from a giant bolt of green velvet! A wire fence, the height of the adjoining brick wall ran on both sides of the strip and across the front, along the street where I stood. A swinging gate was the sole entrance to the enclosure and seemed to invite me to enter, as did a white house with green shutters, meeting my stare of disbelief.

I pushed the gate half open, then paused. It was changed, perhaps I'd regret going farther.

Suddenly I had to know, and the gate swung behind me. The grass was smooth and well-kept and flowers bloomed. I stopped before the house. There hadn't been a porch before, I remembered clearly, but now three steps led onto a small veranda. Half reticently, my knuckles rapped the door.

A shuffling sound from within told me the door would soon be opened. It was, and there stood Mr. McRae. Leaning a shade forward, he squinted, trying to recognize me in the early dimness of evening.

Relief held me silent, but finally released the reins of tension, and I spoke. "Remember me, Mr. McRae?" I asked. "I was here last summer from the Midwest Magazine?"

Tears were in the way of both my vision and my voice.

His Irish face lighted up and he extended a gnarled hand, pulling me over the threshold.

My eyes clung to his sweet smile and I was unaware of another presence until I felt an arm around my waist. Looking down at the kindly old lady, I couldn't resist kissing the wrinkled forehead.

BETWEEN them I was drawn into an old-fashioned room, but it was no longer dreary and threadbare. Ruffled tie-back curtains replaced the beige lace previously covering the panes, and soft green walls added warmth.

I blinked amazed eyes, and my ears were deaf to what their voices were saying as I heeded the changes in the cozy room.

What has happened? I asked myself.

Finally, Father McRae's voice broke through my preoccupation. His blue eyes were dancing. "Here is another story, Miss?" he asked. I nodded, too amazed to speak. "Sure'n we've got one for you this time," he continued, "all thanks to you and that story you wrote about us the last time you were here." Like lights on a Christmas tree in an otherwise darkened room, his face fairly twinkled. The old, dejected look was gone, and I knew the sadness had disappeared forever.

"You just settle yourself right here and Mike will tell you all about it," said Mother McRae. "I'll fix you some milk and a piece of cake. It's delightful to see you again, my dear, and we owe you so much." Mrs. McRae patted my shoulder, then left the room.

"Really, I can't believe what I see," my head indicated the whole room. "It's wonderful, and you both look so well and happy. As a matter of fact, you look quite dapper in that sport sweater you're wearing, Mr. McRae." The smile I felt on the inside was bursting forth on the outside.

"Oh, I can't tell you how happy it makes me to find you like this!" "No more happy than it makes us to know you've remembered us, Miss," he replied. "You know, things seemed to change for us from the minute you were here. Now that you're back we have to celebrate. That's why Mother is fixing us a party." He half-whispered, as though it was our private joke.

IKE McRAE spread a newspaper at his feet, and picking up a piece of wood and his jackknife, whittled as he began, "Shortly after you left, Miss, the corporation offered us $3,000 for our strip, but in spite of it we just couldn't sell. Like we told you, money could never buy the years we have invested here." And so the story unfolded. Curiosity seekers had begun coming to their door to see what strange species of mankind lived within the arms of the brick wall. Tourists had come to make it as much a "must" on their list of what to see as they had the Giant Spring, pouring forth its gallons of water every minute, or the smelting plant of the Anaconda Copper Mining Company. Days that had been uneventful, now became something to anticipate, and anticipation had become a vitamin. Miniature wooden animals Mike had carved were bought and sent over the country. Knitting needles had created bed jackets and baby sweaters to fill the lagging days of old age. As the days passed those handmade articles sold for a tidy sum, and the stiffening fingers had many orders to fill. "Guess somebody wanted to be more'n good to us." He was silent for a moment, but, realizing that his story wasn't finished, I waited. "That's the cake part of it," he finally continued, "now for the frosting. People used to leave their kiddies in their cars while they went in and did their shopping. Y'know what?" His eyes crinkled in amusement, and he pointed the carving he held in his hand toward me. "Some of those cute little tykes could just barely toddle and others were nearly grown youngsters, but they all began coming over to take a peek at the house with the wall. It fascinated them. It got so Mother was making cookies nearly every day so we'd have a treat on hand for our little guests. Finally, lots of the mothers came with them and the same ones came time after time. Sure'n they would. Before long Mr. Elwood, he's the manager of the store, called us again. Mother just laughed, because now so many nice people came here every day, we'd never sell." His pause was only a second long. "Y'know, people write us letters and we get postcards, too, something every day. We like the colored postcards best, though. We even had one sent to us from England and one from Mexico City." He hesitated again, wondering if I was duly impressed. I was! "Anyway, back to Mr. Elwood. We told him we still wouldn't sell. Well, not fifteen minutes later, who do you suppose knocked at the door? Sure'n it was Mr. Elwood. This time his proposition was different." Now he settled back and ceased his carving. "He offered to plant the grass and put the fence around the property; besides, he said he'd pay us $65 a month, if people who came to his store to shop could leave their 3 children here while they were in the store. Mother, right off, said 'yes.' "We've gotten so we like Mr. Elwood real well. He often drops over in the afternoon to pass the time of day and have a glass of milk or a cookie and talk to any of the little folks calling on us. Y'know, we even get a discount on everything we buy in Mr. Elwood's store!" Plainly life was being good to the McRacs, and I was relieved of the mental cross I had borne concerning them. As if from a distance, I heard Mike's voice again and it was steeped in wonderment. "Sure'n because 'we couldn't get around that brick wall it brought us more happiness than we ever dreamed was possible." His head swayed from side to side as he resumed his whittling. Again, I lost all semblance of my profession and my eyes felt tear-trouble coming on again. My heart was beating overtime for the oldsters in the "Parking-Lot Home Sweet Home."

FOR THE YEARS AHEAD
Beatrice K. Ekman

I dreamed of you last night,
I felt your kiss
Laid in a mute caress upon my lips,
And time rolled back.
Love knows no artifice;
Your arms became my haven.
Storm that whips
My little venture boats to Charybdis,
Imperils me no more, nor sinks my ships,
When dreams can bring to me such armistice
To bridge the years, to bridge the years, like this.

And when on lonely roads my feet are set,
Your love will be my brimming cup, my bread.
Your name shall be a sacred amulet
To give me courage for the years ahead.
Your faith in me is white, consuming fire
To keep my heart from all but pure desire.

ADOPTED
Dorothy II. Porter

Adopted yes!
But, oh that word
Means all the world to me,
It puts the rainbows in my sky,
And white sails on the sea.
In every hour of every day,
I strive to let them know
How very much they've changed my life,
Because they love me so.

The "Home" just wasn't home to me,
My childish heart so longed
To have a mother of my own,
A place where I belonged.
So when folks say, "Adopted?"
I proudly cry, "You see,
They didn't have to have me,
They picked me specially."

SHALL NOT WALK ALONE
Evelyn \Wooster Viner

1 shall not walk alone
Through all the coming years;
I shall not falter at the load,
Nor mind too much the salty tears
Upon my lips.
Though you should need to sail
The seven storm-lashed seas;
Though you should slip beyond the veil,
Into the great mysterious unknown,
Whence none return, I still would hold the precious jewel
Of your love;
No time nor space could dim the bliss
Of our good life, however brief.
I still should feel eternally your kiss
Upon my lips.

Page 114

Collecting Antique Chairs
Elizabeth Williamson

If you are a collector of antiques, you know by past experience what you want and how to go about finding it. If you are a beginner, you are probably a little in doubt as how to go about collecting. The simplest way to begin is to absorb the best information around you. Visit museums and historical societies, study the fine pieces, read the magazines which contain interesting and authentic articles dealing with the households of our ancestors. Libraries, and your friends who collect, will help you. There may be a historical house in or near your city which is famous, and furnished with well-preserved pieces, typical of a particular period. You can carefully observe the pieces of antique furniture exhibited in stores, and you can go to auctions. A good antique will be at home in almost any setting. Whether it is an amusing mustache cup, or a beautiful Hepplewhite console, it can lend charm and distinction to your home. Period chairs are always attractive additions to your home. They can be used in the hallway as extras, and occasional chairs may be added to the living room.

Other possibilities are placing these chairs at desks, in bedrooms, at the piano, in the den, and in the sunroom. Rocking chairs are quaint and most welcome if your kitchen is large. By careful observation you will be able to recognize the good lines and the authentic design of an antique chair, and you will become enthusiastic over the romance and the beauty of historic furniture. Ignore the old upholstery; it can be removed and beautiful new fabrics can be used, which will blend with your color scheme and surroundings. However, try to use the fabric which belongs to the period. Each period of history is marked by certain characteristics of design and construction in furniture, and the patterns reflect the spirit of the times, as well as the ideals and activities of the people.

Colonial America, not yet an independent nation, was greatly influenced in its furniture design, as well as in its other customs, by the European mother countries. Nevertheless, the construction of the furniture revealed the simplicity and sturdiness of pioneers and the economic conditions under which they lived. Local woods, such as pine, oak, birch, and maple, were the principal materials, and the upholstery fabrics were, for the most part, homespun materials, although some of the wealthy colonists imported more luxurious fabrics from Europe.

The Pennsylvania Dutch designs of the eighteenth century followed conservative patterns, using simple and useful construction of native woods and homespun fabrics, but some decorative features of painted birds and flowers were added. During the eighteenth century, also, particularly in that period of national development during and following the Revolutionary War and the establishment of the Constitution as the supreme law of the land, English designers still dominated furniture patterns for well-to-do Americans. Thomas Chippendale, the most famous cabinetmaker of England, who died in 1779, while using some of the substantial designs and expert workmanship of earlier furniture makers, added many variations. Using dark mahogany wood, without and working under both "Chippendale marked by sumptuously carved and interlaced lattice work in the backs, and many of them with boldly curved legs, intricately carved. This style, exceedingly popular in Europe, was quickly adopted in America.

A contemporary of Chippendale, George Hepplewhite, whose aim was to blend "elegance and utility" in his designs, developed a style characterized by light, graceful lines, with painted or inlaid decorations of festoons, wreaths, flowers, and musical instruments, in satinwood and mahogany. Hepplewhite's distinctive chair designs exhibited slight, tapering legs, the spade foot, and the distinguishing feature of the shield back. He is credited with having originated the winged chair. Hepplewhite designs are greatly prized by collectors as they are both rare and very beautiful.

Duncan Phyfe is known as an American cabinetmaker, although he was born in Scotland, and did not come to our country until 1783. His designs have had a profound influence on furniture-making in America, and many details, not actually originated by him, can authentically be attributed to his patterns of workmanship.

COLLECTING ANTIQUE CHAIRS

The Salt Lake Tribune

HEPPLEWHITE CHAIRS AND CONSOLE IN ADAMS DESIGN

The chairs are upholstered in eggshell and rose damask. Note the straight legs of the chairs and the shield-shaped backs.

He made, principally, chairs, sofas, settees, tables, and sideboards, using solid mahogany, mahogany veneer, satinwood, maple, and rosewood. His first designs were characterized by excellent proportions, graceful curves, often accented by parallel rows of reeding, simple ornaments, well placed and carved with the greatest precision, and decorative motives, such as the lyre, the acanthus or oak leaf, and other graceful arrangements. Later, under the influence of the French Empire styles, he made furniture that was heavy, over-ornamented, and largely characterless.

Victorian styles in furniture came to America during the time of westward expansion, the Civil War, and the development of the United States as a powerful nation of great extent and unlimited resources. Victorian furniture was marked by many and varied influences and much of it was solid, heavy, and ponderous. Elaborate "over-stuffing" was introduced during this period.

The accompanying table outlines some of the principal furniture types and lists some of the favorite materials and designs used in upholstering.

FURNITURE TYPES

Furniture Style: Early American (First settlements to the Revolution) Origin: Influenced by Mother countries Characteristics: Since the people were pioneers in a new land, the workmanship was simple, well-made and serviceable. Wood: Local woods: Pine, Oak, birch, maple Fabric: Homespun, or material brought from England.

Tent bottoms

Furniture Style: Pennsylvania-Dutch (1700-1800) Origin: German, Swiss, and a few Dutch peasants, settled in Pennsylvania. Were influenced a little with a European peasant style influence. Characteristics: Used traditional design and forms, simple and useful. Painted with decorations—birds, flowers, etc. Wood: Native wood: Pine, walnut, fruit wood, and wood from other native trees Fabric: Homespun

Furniture Style: Chippendale (1718-1779) Origin: Thomas Chippendale, the famous cabinet maker and designer of England, greatly influenced America and Europe. Characteristics: Baroque, rococo style, influenced with King XV of France, Chinese and Gothic. Gilded and lacquered. Strength and solidity. Beautiful. Wood: Mahogany, rosewood Rosewood Fabric: French Brocade, petit point, Morocco Damask, satin, taffeta, haircloth, brocade, taffeta

Furniture Style: Hepplewhite (died in 1786) Origin: English-born designer, collaborated with Chippendale in America. Characteristics: Curving lines influenced by French Neo-Classic period. Beautiful decoration and painting. Wood: Mahogany, rosewood, tulip wood, carved woods Fabric: Brocade, petit velvet, silk

Furniture Style: Sheraton (1750-1806) Origin: English-born cabinet-maker (more of a designer), greatly influenced Duncan Phyfe in America Characteristics: Classic, champion of the straight line. French influence. Inlays, veneering, painted and inlaid. Dignity and refinement. Wood: Mahogany, satinwood, beech, maple, tulip, holly, ebony and inlay Fabric: Brocade, damask, silk, satin

Furniture Style: Duncan Phyfe (1768-1854) Origin: Duncan Phyfe, born in Scotland, came to America at the age of 16. His furniture "American Sheraton." Characteristics: Developed finest American empire style, influenced by Sheraton, Hepplewhite, and Sheraton. Wood: Mahogany, rosewood Fabric: Brocade, damask, satin, silk

Furniture Style: Victorian (1819-1901) Origin: In a search for the unusual, copied French Rococo, French Gothic, Egyptian, Turkish, Venetian styles. Characteristics: Marble top tables, carving, overstuffed chairs and sofas. Heavy Wood: Oak, walnut, mahogany, satinwood Fabric: Haircloth and durable fabrics.

BLIND
Dorothy J. Roberts
Upon the darkened canvas of her years, And through the lifted prism of her imagery, She paints her course, an upward trek from tears To the lighted stratum of serenity.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for October 1946.
SINGING MOTHERS CONCERTS AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
Photograph submitted by Rosella F. Larkin
MOUNT OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), TWELFTH WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY 
SINGING MOTHERS IN PIONEER COSTUME ASSEMBLED IN FRONT OF THE UTAH STATE FLAG, March 18, 1947
Standing at the right in the back row, Rosella F. Larkin, President, Ogden Twelfth Ward Relief Society; third from right, Second Counselor Nana HI. Cole; fourth from right, Secretary Claire J. Child; fifth from right, organist Olive P. Thomas; seventh from right, assistant organist Stella C. Smith; seventh from left, stake board member Emma M. Gilgen; tenth from left, Mary J. Wilson, member, General Board of Relief Society.
This flag was placed in the Twelfth Ward chapel on the occasion of the Relief Society anniversary party, and the presentation was made significant by pioneer stories and music.
Sister Larkin submits the following description of the Utah State Flag, as it was officially approved by the State Legislature in 1933:
"The State Flag of Utah shall be a flag of blue field, fringed with gold borders, with the following device worked in natural colors on the center of the blue field: The center of the shield; above the shield and thereon the American eagle with outstretched wings; the top of the shield pierced with six arrows arranged crosswise; upon the shield under the arrows the word 'Industry' and below the word 'Industry' on the center of the shield, a beehive; on each side of the beehive, growing sego lilies; below the beehive and near the bottom of the shield, the word 'Utah,' and below the word 'Utah' and on the bottom of the shield, the figures '1847'; with the appearance of being back of the shield there shall be two American flags on flagstaffs placed crosswise with the flags so draped that they will project beyond each side of the shield, the heads of the flagstaffs appearing over the face of the draped flag below the shield; below the shield the flags and upon the blue field, the figures '1896' (the year of statehood); around the entire design a narrow circle in gold."
Adaleine B. Bailey is president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Leona B. Sonne
EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT CONFERENCE OF MISSION PRESIDENTS, MALMO, SWEDEN, July 1947
Left to right: Ethel E. J. Bloomquist, Swedish Mission; Jane Wunderlich, West German Mission; Margaret Petersen, Norwegian Mission; Martha Toronto, Czechoslovakian Mission; Leona B. Sonne, European Mission; Adrianna Zappey, Netherlands Mission; Nida Taggart, Swiss-Austrian Mission; Eliza Petersen, Danish Mission; Gladys Boyer, British Mission; Kate Barker, French Mission.
The women are assembled in front of the beautiful building recently acquired and renovated as the meeting place and branch headquarters of the Malmo District of the Swedish Mission. The building and grounds have been made very attractive by the labors of the missionaries and the saints laboring and residing in this beautiful city in the extreme south of Sweden.
Leona B. Sonne, President of the European Mission Relief Society, contributes the following interesting report, under date of August 14th, 1947:
"At the conference of mission presidents held at Malmo, Sweden, July 16th-19th, I had the opportunity to meet all the sisters who have charge of the Relief Societies in the European Mission except Sister Stover, who had returned to Salt Lake City, and Sister Sharp who could not be present. Sister Petersen of Denmark, Sister Toronto of Czechoslovakia, and Sister Wunderlich of the West German Mission, who has not been able to enter Germany yet, had but recently arrived and had not become acquainted with conditions in their respective missions. Sister Sharp of the South African Mission sent a very interesting report of her work, which was read and appreciated.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121
The sisters met with the mission presidents in all of their sessions where each gave a report of Relief Society activities following the report of the mission president on conditions in his mission. A separate meeting of the sisters was also held, at which each one reported in regard to her problems and as to her plans for the future.
Finland
The work is just getting started, and the missionaries are giving the lessons to the sisters from the Book of Mormon. Translation into Finnish is a problem at the present time.
British Mission
There are forty-two Relief Society organizations in the British Mission. Activity during the war was limited and some discontinued their meetings during the extremely cold weather. Sewing lessons are being substituted slowly in place of fancy work. Home canning is being encouraged.
Czechoslovakian Mission
During the war the Relief Society met in the homes. Activity was very limited and no definite program was followed. Prospects appear good.
Danish Mission
There are 247 sisters enrolled in the Relief Society in the Danish Mission, of whom 200 attended regularly. A Singing Mothers' group has been organized and gave several selections during the recent conference held in Copenhagen.
East German Mission
The Relief Society did very little during the war. They are now being organized and are becoming interested in the work. A capable sister has been called on a mission to teach the sisters how to remodel clothing for those who are in urgent need.
French Mission
The Relief Society sisters are encouraged to make over old clothing as new purchases are impossible in France. The organizations are functioning well in Belgium, especially in visiting teaching. The sisters have tried valiantly to keep track of their members. Canning has not been encouraged due to a lack of pressure cookers.
Netherlands Mission
The Relief Society organizations were kept alive during the war. For several seasons they studied "The Way to Perfection." It was difficult to introduce current lesson material. The lessons outlined by the General Board are published in the mission paper and are one year behind on account of translation delays. Meetings are held throughout the year, and attendance is constantly increasing. The sisters have made over old clothing and prepared baptismal clothes.
Norwegian Mission
Well-qualified women are in charge of the work throughout the mission. There are twelve organizations. District boards have been organized, instead of a mission board which cannot function because of the long distances. Recently the Bergen Branch completed the first quilt made in the Norwegian Mission.
Swedish Mission
There are thirteen organizations in Sweden. The sisters are making baptismal and burial clothes and are also working on layettes. Two clothing drives for Norway and Finland have been conducted. Meetings are held regularly. "The attendance is good. Lessons are published in the mission paper. The Malmo Branch Relief Society prepared and served the noon meals for the mission presidents' conference. They deserve high praise for the manner in which this work was done."

122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948

Swiss-Austrian Mission
The Relief Society in this mission is in excellent condition. In Austria, the sisters carried on in a most commendable manner during the war. New lesson materials are looked for and will be appreciated. The sisters are enthusiastic and very interested in the work.

In March, 1947, a successful convention was held in Bern, Switzerland, attended by about 200. Evening entertainments were conducted throughout the mission by the Relief Society organizations to collect funds for an Austrian family whose home had been destroyed by fire.

West German Mission
Relief Society meetings were forbidden by the Hitler regime, but the work is being revived as fast as possible.

South African Mission
Cooking demonstrations conducted by Sister Sharp have increased attendance at the meetings. The sisters are anxious to learn American cooking methods and recipes. Bazaars are held annually in several branches. There are 120 Magazine subscribers in the mission. In the Mowbray Branch, monthly visits are made, and this work is getting under way in the Johannesburg Branch also.

Photograph by Hankins, Hartsville, South Carolina
Submitted by Effie Meeks

SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE SINGING MOTHERS WHO SANG AT THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STAKE, October 19, 1947
Standing at the right in the back row: Rosella F. Larkin, President, Ogden Twelfth Ward Relief Society; third from right: Second Counselor Nana H. Cole; fourth from right: Secretary Claire J. Child; fifth from right: organist Olive P. Thomas; seventh from right: assistant organist Stella C. Smith; seventh from left: stake board member Emma M. Gilgen; tenth from left: Mary J. Wilson, member.

General Board of Relief Society.
This flag was placed in the Twelfth Ward chapel on the occasion of the Relief Society anniversary party, and the presentation was made significant by pioneer stories and music. Sister Larkin submits the following description of the Utah State Flag, as it was officially approved by the State Legislature in 1933: "The State Flag of Utah shall be a flag of blue field, fringed with gold borders, with the following device worked in natural colors on the center of the blue field: The center of the shield; above the shield and thereon the American eagle with outstretched wings; the top of the shield pierced with six arrows arranged crosswise; upon the shield under the arrows the word 'Industry' and below the word 'Industry' on the center of the shield, a beehive; on each side of the beehive, growing sego lilies; below the beehive and near the bottom of the shield, the word 'Utah,' and below the word 'Utah' and on the bottom of the shield, there shall be two American flags on flagstaffs placed crosswise with the flags so draped that they will project beyond each side of the shield, the heads of the flagstaffs appearing over the face of the draped flag below the shield; below the shield the flags and upon the blue field, the figures '1896' (the year of statehood); around the empire design a narrow circle in gold."

Adaleine B. Bailey is president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Leona B. Sonne

EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT CONFERENCE OF MISSION PRESIDENTS, MALMO, SWEDEN, July 1947
Left to right: Ethel E. Bloomquist, Swedish Mission; Jane Wunderlich, West German Mission; Margaret Petersen, Norwegian Mission; Martha Toronto, Czechoslovakian Mission; Leona B. Sonne, European Mission; Adrianna Zappey, Netherlands Mission; Nida Taggart, Swiss-Austrian Mission; Eliza Petersen, Danish Mission; Gladys Boyer, British Mission; Kate Barker, French Mission.

The women are assembled in front of the beautiful building recently acquired and renovated as the meeting place and branch headquarters of the Malmo District of the Swedish Mission. The building and grounds have been made very attractive by the labors of the missionaries and the saints laboring and residing in this beautiful city in the extreme south of Sweden.

Leona B. Sonne, President of the European Mission Relief Society, contributes the following interesting report, under date of August 14th, 1947: "At the conference of mission presidents held at Malmo, Sweden, July 16-19, I had the opportunity to meet all the sisters who have charge of the Relief Societies in the European Mission except Sister Stover, who had returned to Salt Lake City, and Sister Sharp who could not be present. Sister Petersen of Denmark, Sister Toronto of Czechoslovakia, and Sister Wunderlich of the West German Mission, who has not been able to enter Germany yet, had but recently arrived and had not become acquainted with conditions in their respective missions. Sister Sharp of the South African Mission sent a very interesting report of her work, which was read and appreciated. The sisters met with the mission presidents in all of their sessions where each gave a report of Relief Society activities following the report of the mission president on conditions in the mission. A separate meeting of the sisters was also held, at which each one reported in regard to her problems and as to her plans for the future.

Finland
The work is just getting started, and the missionaries are giving the lessons to the sisters from the Book of Mormon. Translation into Finnish is a problem at the present time.

British Mission
There are forty-two Relief Society organizations in the British Mission. Activity during the war was limited and some discontinued their meetings during the extremely cold weather. Sewing lessons are being substituted slowly in place of fancy work. Home canning is being encouraged.

Czechoslovakian Mission
During the war, the Relief Society met in the homes. Activity was very limited and no definite program was followed. Prospects appear good.

Danish Mission
There are 147 sisters enrolled in the Relief Society in the Danish Mission, of whom 200 attended regularly. A Singing Mothers' group has been organized and gave several selections during the recent conference held in Copenhagen.

East German Mission
The Relief Society did very little during the war. They are now being organized and are becoming interested in the work. A capable sister has been called on a mission to teach the sisters how to remodel clothing for those who are in urgent need.

French Mission
The Relief Society sisters are encouraged to make over old clothing as new purchases are impossible in France. The organizations are functioning well in Belgium, especially in visiting costumes. The sisters have tried valiantly to keep track of their members. Canning has not been encouraged due to a lack of pressure cookers.

Netherlands Mission
The Relief Society organizations were kept alive during the war. For several seasons they studied "The Way to Perfection." It was difficult to introduce current lesson material. The lessons outlined by the General Board are published in the mission paper and are one year behind on account of translation delays. Meetings are held throughout the year, and attendance is constantly increasing. The sisters have made over old clothing and prepared baptismal clothes.

Swedish Mission
There are thirteen organizations in Sweden. The sisters are making baptismal and burial clothes and are also working on layettes. Two clothing drives for Norway and Finland have been conducted. Meetings are held regularly. The attendance is good. Lessons are published in the mission paper. The Malmö Branch Relief Society prepared and served the noon meals for the mission presidents' conference. They deserve high praise for the manner in which this work was done.
Swiss-Austrian Mission
The Relief Society in this mission is in excellent condition. In Austria the sisters carried on in a most commendable manner during the war. New lesson material is looked for and will be appreciated. The sisters are enthusiastic and very interested in the work. In March, 1947, a successful convention was held in Bern, Switzerland, attended by about 500. Evening entertainments were conducted throughout the mission by the Relief Society organizations to collect funds for an Austrian family whose home had been destroyed by fire.
West German Mission
Relief Society meetings were forbidden by the Hitler regime, but the work is being revived as fast as possible.
South African Mission
Cooking demonstrations conducted by Sister Sharp have increased attendance at the meetings. The sisters are anxious to learn American cooking methods and recipes. Bazaars are held annually in several branches. There are 120 Magazine subscribers in the mission. In the Mowbray Branch monthly visits are made and this work is getting good results.
Photograph by Hawkins, Hartsville, South Carolina Submitted by Effie Meeks
SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE SINGING MOTHERS WHO SANG AT THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STAKE, October 19, 1947
Front row left to right: Vera Lesser, chorister; Beulah Wilson, Maurice Lawrence; Georgia Woods; Mildred Jensen; Effie Meeks, President, Southern States Mission Relief Society; Grace Replogle; Doreen Melson; Thelma Flowers; Margaret Watson; Gladys Watson.
Second row, left to right: Lucille Smythe; Ruby Farmer; Clema Tate; Beverly Sayre; Arlene Carlson; Clara Watson; Jewel Brunem; Zelba Stone; Mae Anderson; Floridia Gouch; Louise Petty; Malcolm Fagan.
Third row, left to right: Marian Topham, second counselor in former district presidency; Alice Vowles, Relief Society district president, newly appointed; Breda McBride, first counselor in district presidency.
This photograph was taken August 30, 1947, preceding the organization of the stake.
Photograph submitted by Florence W. Orme
SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE, WELFARE SEWING EXHIBIT September, 1947
Work directors of the four wards in South Idaho Falls Stake and the stake work director, as pictured with their completed Welfare assignment, all of the articles of which were beautifully and carefully made.
Left to right: Anna Jensen, Sixth Ward; Fannie MacKay, Eighth Ward; Florence W. Orme, Second Counselor and work director, South Idaho Falls Stake; Sybil Ball, Third Ward; Vera Lee, Ammon Ward.
Photograph submitted by Grace Bullock
ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), WEST WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED IN BEEHIVE-BRANCH CHAPEL FOR MUSIC FESTIVAL, July 6, 1947
Seated at the piano, Nemmie Pearce, accompanist.
Front row standing, left to right: Vera Christian, conductor and violinist; Lillie Atkin; Jane Laraper; Evla Andrus; Marie Robins; Marcia Crawford; Marie Mangum; Dohn Kenworthy; Karma Bunton; Marie Meeks; Mary Atkin; Dona Judd; Belle Randall.
Second row, left to right: Ann R. Pace; Emma Hemenway; Doris Sorenson; Rosalind Cannon; Grace Bullock; Pearl McCallister.
Leila R. Atkin is president of St. George Relief Society.
124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 Photograph submitted by Ella R. Croxford COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH), SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR CONCERT, April 25, 1947
Ella R. Croxford, President, Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, reports that this concert was the Singing Mothers' contribution to the observance of Utah's Centennial year. Under the leadership of Ada R. McDonald and Daisy H. Belliston, 126 women sang in the chorus and each of the seven wards presented a special number. The hall was filled to capacity and the concert was a great success, both in the spirit of the singers and the appreciative audience, and in the fine musicianship of the presentation.
Photograph submitted by Viola Brower
YELLOWSTONE STAKE, ASIITTON WARD (IDAHO), SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT POND'S LODGE, July 31, 1947
Front row seated, left to right: Bodil Richey, First Counselor; Ethel Cordingley, Second Counselor; Myrtle Bonner, President.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 Mildred Brower, chorister, is seated second from the left in the second row; Ruth Murdock, organist, stands in the third row, second from the left. This chorus sang at Pond's Lodge by special request of the Idaho Women's Camp. Elva Swensen is president of Yellowstone Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Ined N. Fryer
FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO), RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND BABIES October 23, 1947
Left to right: Reva W. Wilson, theology class leader; Mildred D. Whittle, Second Counselor; Ined N. Fryer, President; Ada J. Chatterton, chorister; Genevive H. Hawkes, Magazine representative.
During the eleven months from April 30, 1946, to April 1, 1947, four potential Priesthood members and one future Relief Society worker were born to members of Franklin Stake Relief Society Board. With one exception, the sisters were able to attend all but one or two monthly meetings and to keep their ward appointments.
ARE YOU WATCHING THE EXPIRATION DATE OF YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE? ORDER YOUR RENEWAL ONE FULL MONTH BEFORE EXPIRATION, SO THAT YOU WILL NOT MISS ANY OF THE MAGAZINES 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948
Elen Louise Wallace Madsen (Continued from page 81)
of Jesus Christ. Faith and works have paved the way for her successful career as a splendid teacher of the gospel. With all her Church activities, she has maintained a high degree of efficiency in her home, not permitting anything to mar or divert her from the highest of all callings, that of wife and mother. She has the rare gift of companionship with her husband and children. She manifests at home love, loyalty, gentleness, meekness, patience, and practically all womanly virtues. The Book of Mormon speaks of being born of goodly parents. This great gift was bequeathed to Louise, for surely she has a noble heritage. Her father was Ashley Harper Wallace, youngest son of Patriarch Henty Wallace. Her mother, Claribel Louise Woods, was a granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt.
On June 1, 1928, in the Salt Lake Temple she was married to Francis Armstrong Madsen, son of Richard W. Madsen and Mary Armstrong Madsen, and grandson of one of the most prominent early pioneers, Francis Armstrong. Her four lovely children are Francis A. Jr., sixteen, Mary Louise, fourteen, Robert Ashley, twelve, and Richard Harper, right.
Sister Madsen's untiring service fits her into the pattern of service, as expressed by Micah in one of the most exquisite definitions of religion: "He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" (Micah 6:8). Sister Madsen truly tries to exemplify these wonderful virtues in her life.
Aleine Margetts Young (Continued from page 82)
Brother Young is a capable architect, a kind husband and father, who will give full support and co-operation to Sister Young in her new calling. Together, they have built a beautiful home where love and harmony dwell. They have four splendid children, Richard, who is a missionary in the Central States, Renee, Jane, and Bobby.

Sister Young accepts this new position with humility, but her devotion to Relief Society, her many gifts of personality, her experience, and education are qualities that will make her a beloved and useful member of the General Board.

**TASKS Christie Lund Coles**
I do my simple daily tasks,
Sweep the floor and make the bed.
Reward seems part of every deed,
As fragrance part of new-baked bread.

???LESSON
ELDEPARTMENT Theology

The Life and Ministry of the Savior
Lesson 8 "Lord of the Sabbath"
"The Chosen Twelve"

Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ (Chapters 15 and 16), by Elder James E. Talmage)

For Tuesday, May 4, 1948

Objective: To show that the Sabbath is distinctively sacred to the people who accept the Lord as their guide. Also, to show that Jesus does have a specific calling in the Priesthood to which he delegates the power to carry on his work in the earth.

After the creation of the earth, the Lord himself rested on the day he hallowed and made sacred. It is therefore perfectly logical and reasonable that he would expect his followers to "keep sacred" that holy day. Surely, one day in seven is not too much for men to rest, and turn their thoughts to worship and how best to serve their Creator.

The great powers of Jehovah were impressively shown at Sinai. Israel must not forget the law that was written by the hand of the Lord on that memorable occasion. The preparation was complete to indelibly impress Israel with the necessity of keeping God's law. Next, after the commandments concerning God and the sacredness in which his name should be held, comes the divine injunction: "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy."

During Israel's travels in the wilderness, in fact, during the entire exodus, this law was strictly enforced. On the day preceding the Sabbath, they were commanded to gather sufficient manna for the extra day. By nearly all of the prophets, prior to the coming of the Messiah, either the desecration of the Sabbath was forcefully condemned, or the blessings promised those who would keep it were reiterated with inspired fervor. However, there was no requirement that the "keeping of the Sabbath" was to be a burden to the people. It was to be a day of rest, a day of spiritual enjoyment, a day when people might come together in love and fellowship and pay respect and homage to their Maker. Excessive fasting was not required. In short, it was to be a sweet, holy day during which man and beast were to rest. Man was to worship and experience the peace and joy of being near to God.

How much we do need such a day now!

Anciently, every seven years the Lord also prescribed a year of rest. Even the land was to rest every seventh year; its fertility was to be increased. Every fifty years, or seven times seven years, there was to be a year of jubilee. It was to be a year of rest. Debts were to be forgiven and general relief extended to all people in distress. All of these periods of rest were for the benefit and blessing of the people.

Ezekiel, a pastor to homeless exiles, stated that the Sabbath was a "covenant between the Lord and the people of Israel." He earnestly rebuked those who violated this day of rest and worship. Long before the coming of Christ, the rabbis and priests had led the people away from the true spirit of the Sabbath. They had created rules, and given them the sanctity of law, which completely changed the meaning and purpose of the Sabbath. Sabbath requirements became a burden, and the Savior, at his coming, found a distorted, unjust set of rules that were obnoxious and unworkable.

Jesus soon found himself confronted with charges of Sabbath-breaking. In the fifth chapter of John is related one instance which will illustrate the absurdity of rabbinical formalism. There was a certain spring near one of the markets in Jerusalem, the waters of which were reported to possess curative values. Many afflicted people bathed there.

CHRIST AND THE FISHERMEN 128

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
FEBRUARY 1948

LESSON DEPARTMENT

The waters would well up and then recede. There was a tradition that "whosoever first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had" (John 5:4).

One Sabbath day, Jesus visited this pool, or spring. He saw there, a man who had been afflicted for thirty-eight years. The poor fellow was so helpless that he could not get into the water first. Someone else always crowded in ahead of him. When Jesus saw the situation, he said to the invalid: "Wilt thou be made whole?" The answer, of course, was in the affirmative. The Master spoke to him: "Rise, take up thy bed, and walk." The Great Healer had made the cripple well. No doubt, his great heart was full of pity when he saw the unequal struggle, and mercy was extended.

Later, when Christ saw the man in the temple, he said unto him: "Behold, thou art made whole; sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee." Probably the man's sickness was the result of his own transgression. This miracle was performed on the Sabbath day. The Jews were so bitter that they sought to put him to death because, they claimed, he had violated the Sabbath. Think of the inconsistency! He had only spoken, but the afflicted man had carried his bed into his own house. They claimed Jesus had caused the man to break the Sabbath.

Jesus boldly met his accusers. He said: "My Father worketh hithereto and I work." The Jews protested that Jesus sought to make himself equal with God. The Savior, in effect, admitted the charge. In the language of Paul: "Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God." He then proceeded to explain the powers which had been given him of the Father. As the Father had power to raise the dead, so would the Son have such powers. Speaking of those powers, he said: Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, and shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation (John 5:28-29).

He did proclaim himself the literal son of God and was Lord of the Sabbath day. Had written concerning J

But they could not, or would not, believe. If they would not believe the Lord's words, who had ordained the Sabbath was the same as the One now speaking to them.

The disciples of were also accused of violating the Sabbath day, but the Lord defended them with equal boldness.

The Chosen Twelve
In the text we are studying, considerable time and space are devoted to a description of each of the Twelve Apostles, whom Jesus called and ordained.

To learn of them, one should read Chapter 16 of Jesus the Christ. Our discussion will be more general. It is specifically stated by Jesus: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you" (John 15:16). Paul, who later became one of the Twelve, speaking of the callings in the Priesthood, said: "And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron" (Heb. 5:4). The Lord revealed to Moses, the head of his work, that Aaron was to be called into the service (Ex. 4:14-16, also Ex. 28:1).

The scriptures plainly teach that the apostleship is the Priesthood of Presidency in the Church which the Lord established. A few quotations will suffice to show this:
And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues (I Cor. 12:28).
And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the Lord and his apostles (Eph. 2:20).
Eph. 2:15, 21, and 22 should also be read. The Church is likened unto a building. The foundation is built upon the Lord and his apostles. If we study carefully Ephesians 4:8-14, we learn of the work of these apostles and that they are to remain in the Church, wherever established, "for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God.

Those who teach that apostles are no longer necessary should read carefully these scriptures. The apostles constitute the very foundation of the edifice of Christ's Church.
The men called to these high and sacred positions by the Savior were men whom he had already demonstrated their faithfulness. They believed in him and had, before they were ordained, openly testified that he was the Son of God. They were men who later forsook all and followed the head of the Church wherever he sent them. They were his servants: "they were not chosen from the ranks of the rabbis and the scribes. They were not men learned in the Jewish laws and rabbinical formalism. They were chosen by the Master, he ordained them. They were promised the gift of the Holy Ghost.

But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you (John 14:26).
God was to reveal things unto them. The testimony that Jesus is the Christ is a revelation: " . . . no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost" (I Cor. 12:3).

The Lord gave to the apostles of his Church the "keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven" (Matt. 16:19). Do apostles still hold, or have, those keys? We solemnly affirm that the apostles in the true Church do have those keys and exercise them in the places which God has ordained for their use. The Lord did not give to his servants useless keys. He did not give keys which were to be used only in one period of the world's history. God is unchangeable. The Church he established while he lived upon the earth has been re-established in this, our day. The same keys, blessings and privileges enjoyed anciently are enjoyed by the faithful in this day. Christ's Church is upon the earth. If anyone seeks for it, he can find it.

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion
1. Why is it logical to believe that the Lord expects his followers to observe a sacred Sabbath? What is the true spirit of the Sabbath? Discuss its reasonableness.
2. In what way had the rabbis and Jewish priests completely changed the true spirit of the Sabbath? Tell of the miracle performed on the Sabbath day at the pool near the market place.
3. In what way did Jesus admit his Godship?
4. To what council did Jesus delegate the authority to carry on the work of the ministry? Give Bible quotations to show that the apostleship is the authority of presidency in the Church of Christ.

Visiting Teachers' Messages
Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 8 Beautification President Amy Brown Lyman
For Tuesday, May 4, 1948
Objective: To become acquainted with pioneer plans of beautification of homes, churches, and communities, in order to appreciate fully the realization of those plans a century later.

Almost as soon as a Camp was established in the Valley, the pioneers began to plan their city, which was to be the center of the new empire eventually its capital. Modeled after the designs and ideas of Joseph Smith for the "City of Zion," it was to be laid out as a perfect square, divided into ten-acre blocks with streets eight rods wide and sidewalks twenty feet wide, and to contain a park for beautifying and recreational purposes. It was to be surrounded by fields and farms, and each family was to be given a city lot of approximately one acre, and a field varying in size according to the needs and the ability of the family to care for it. Such was the original plan for Salt Lake City, which in time was partially carried out, and which would today, after one hundred years, be hard to improve upon. The city was to be a thing of beauty, set in the heart of a desert, and such it has proved to be.

This plan also served as a pattern for the villages and towns subsequently established in the intermountain region. Building for beautification as well as for permanency, the pioneers adopted styles of architecture and fine interior wood finishings in their public buildings which have been and still are the admiration of students of art and architecture; and in their private homes, many of which were humble and simple, they strove also for dignity and harmony in design. Coming, as many of them did, from old communities in Europe where they had been familiar with fine buildings and gardens, they were influenced by overseas' architecture and landscaping. Others, coming from older and more developed communities in the United States, brought with them ideas and ideals in construction and design which they naturally adopted.

Brigham Young, himself a carpenter, cabinetmaker, and builder, with the assistance of such architects as Truman O. Angell and others, spared no pains in making and caring out, as far as possible, extensive plans for a building and a beautification program. Although handicapped in the beginning by lack of building materials and by irrigation problems, they set about at once to overcome these handicaps.

In a few years, they were sawing timber, making adobes and bricks and cutting stone, which enabled them to erect substantial, permanent buildings; and, through the successful system of irrigation that they established, they were able to beautify the surroundings of their buildings. Handcraft work, for both men and women, was encouraged, with the result that many churches and public buildings, and homes as well, could boast of wood-carved cornices, panels, and mantels. Exquisite, handmade furniture, which has not since been surpassed in beauty, adorned many homes. Some of the specimens of exquisite wood carvings are to be found in the Salt Lake Temple, the Beehive House, and in the moldings of the cornice around the Salt Lake Tabernacle; also in the St. George Tabernacle, the St. George, and Manti Temples. The stairway in the Manti Temple shows excellent workmanship. The Assembly Hall on Temple Square in Salt Lake City is notable for its unexcelled masonry. Women contributed their part of ideas and the work of their hands in helping to improve the interior of buildings and yards. They saw to it that the inside walls of churches, schoolhouses, and homes were whitewashed; and that the church aisles were carpeted with home-woven strips. The old parlors and bedrooms in the homes were covered with artistically striped, homemade carpets, and braided rugs adorned the scoured kitchen floors. They planted shrubs and flowers about the homes, such as hollyhocks, pinks, daisies, sweet william, and herbs from seeds which, in the beginning, they had carried with them across the plains. These they watered mostly by buckets and hand sprinklers. Nothing could be lovelier than were those rows of old-fashioned flowers which lined the walks, and the flower beds which hugged the houses and centered the yards. 'There were few homes which could not boast of a neat flower garden.

A person with an eye to beauty will not fail today to be impressed with the setting and architectural stateliness of many of the pioneer buildings erected a century ago; and with streets and avenues, laid out at the same time, many of which provide four-lane highways. Suggestions for Discussion Some of the teachers might contribute to the discussion by reporting examples of community beautification with which they are familiar and by suggesting future projects.

132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT 133

Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)
Lesson 7 Plackets and Zippers Jean Ridges Jennings
Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter XVIII, pp. 122-123, 133, 138

For Tuesday, April 13, 1948

THOUGH there are various types of plackets and zipper closings for garments, they all serve the same purpose. Their function is to allow plenty of room to easily put clothing on and off and still have it fit well. A placket should, therefore, be made to fit as smoothly as a seam if one hopes to retain the perfect fit of one's dress.

We will first consider the zipper closing. Many women find that they encounter difficulty putting in zippers, so that the garment will fit just as they want it and the seam will be perfectly flat and smooth with no bulging or puckering at the bottom of the opening. Frequently, after the zipper is sewed in, one finds that the waistline is either too loose or too tight. To avoid this distressing result care must be taken to properly fit the garment and mark the opening accurately so there is no guesswork when sewing the zipper in.

Put the dress or skirt on, right side out, and pin the seam in place, folding the front edge under so that it is closed exactly as you would like it to be when wearing it. Place pins at right angles to the seam and about one half inch apart. When this is carefully done, and the side seam is absolutely smooth and straight, mark with chalk or a basting thread on both front and back of the garment the exact spot where the two edges of the seam meet. The pins can be removed and there is left an accurate line to follow in finishing the closing.

If the seam allowance is not wide enough to completely cover the metal of the zipper, an extension of seam tape or material will need to be added. Using the markings as a guide, temporarily sew up the opening using the largest stitch on the sewing machine or a small running hand stitch, being careful to have the waistline seam meet accurately. The zipper is now sewed into the closed seam by first making a fold 1/2 inch wide in the back half of the seam, keeping the right side of the material up. Baste and stitch this as close as possible to the metal of the zipper. This is done with the dress wrong side out.

Next turn the garment right side out and baste the front edge of the seam down just beyond the metal of the zipper, being careful not to pull the edge of the seam over. Stitch on the machine in a straight line ending with a diagonal to the seam at top and bottom. The temporary stitching may now be removed and the closing is finished.

By using this method the seam can be made to be perfectly flat with the zipper completely covered and only one stitching showing.

Zippers are not always the best closing for all types of garments. A regulation placket can be made in dresses and skirts and held closed with snaps or hooks and eyes. In this case the preliminary fitting is done in the same manner as for zippers. For light weight or sheer materials, for lingerie, for children's clothing, and straight gathered skirts, a continuous placket is used. For sleeve and neck openings where there is no seam, a faced placket is used. Hemmed plackets are also common for children's clothes and underwear.

Space does not permit detailed instructions for all of these plackets but methods can be found by referring to the textbook listed at the beginning of this lesson, the Butterick Dressmaking Book, or The Singer Dressmaking Guide.

Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)
Lesson 8 Make-Overs Jean Ridges Jennings
Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter XXXIII

For Tuesday, May 11, 1948

REMODELING, altering, or making-over clothes is a very important part of wardrobe planning in any family with a limited income. Quite frequently clothes become shabby or out of style, or one grows tired of wearing them before they are worn out. Often this is the case when there is still a great deal of good to be found in them. Sometimes they are worn too much for further service to one member of a family but can be used profitably for some other person. And sometimes one can even utilize the usable parts of garments for purposes other than making clothing.

The field of remodeling and re-using clothing is one of endless possibilities and offers a challenge to everyone.

We all of us want to get as much good as we can out of things we have on hand so must make an effort to put clothes to the best possible use. Even though garments are worn and can only be used for some make-over project, they should be thoughtfully and carefully made. One must strive to conceal the original identity of the garment and certainly to avoid giving the remade article a made-over look. Often when fabrics are shabby and shiny from wear, they can be turned and re-made wrong side out. This is especially true of woolens and materials with a nap that wears off. One of the commonest and easiest ways to make new clothes from old is to combine two worn articles to make a new one or to combine new material with the old to change the style, for trimming, or to supply enough material to complete the garment. Care and good judgment must be used in utilizing new 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT material to refinish an old dress or suit. One must make sure that the fresh, new cloth does not make the old look older and more shabby. Sometimes one's effort to utilize old clothes can lead to unhappy consequences financially. It should always be kept in mind that the cost of new material used in making over old clothes must not be so great that it outweighs the value to the wearer of the completed garment. Expenditures for new fabrics to be combined with old ones should be kept as low as possible. Otherwise, we may find to our sorrow that it would have been better to spend a little more and make a whole new garment. The time involved in these projects should also be carefully considered. Anything we undertake to do ought to be worth the effort 135 spent. So once again careful thought should be given to the project beforehand and to help decide whether or not the finished article will justify our work. Keeping these thoughts in mind, make a survey of clothing on hand with a view to using everything that can be re-made successfully. The lessons for the coming year will take up at length the possibilities to be found in old clothes with specific suggestions for making over all types of clothing into all manner of new articles. Our aim, then, will be to help every homemaker get the most good from clothes on hand, whether they be dad's, mother's, big or little brother's or sister's. We'll have suggestions for using old coats, suits, party dresses, lingerie, or whatever is available. Our motto from now on is, "Make the most of what you have."

Literature
Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 8 Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, May 18, 1948 Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of values to be received from the Lord's word, THROUGHOUT the study of the Doctrine and Covenants this year, the literary values of this modern scripture have been stressed. It has been our purpose to appreciate the beauty, as well as the truth, of the Lord's word in our day. In all studies of literature there is need at the end of a course to enjoy, to appreciate, to remember. This can well be done in what we may call a literary recital of the choice passages from the Doctrine and Covenants studied during our lessons. In the main, these passages have divided themselves into longer and shorter readings. The longer ones may be illustrated by the following: Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principle of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true, but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distill upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever (121:34-46). Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. And the voice of warming shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them (1:1-5). Therefore, verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you.

And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith. Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God; that your incomings may be in the name of the Lord; that your outgoings may be in the name of the Lord; that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with uplifted hands unto the Most High. Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings. Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let not all be spokesmen at once; but let one speak at a time and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be edified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege. See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires. Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated (88:117- 124). Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full. Therefore, care not for the body, neither the life of the body; but care for the soul, and for the life of the soul. And seek the face of the Lord always, that in patience ye may possess your souls, and ye shall have eternal life. 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT When men are called unto mine everlasting gospel, and covenant with an everlasting covenant, they are accounted as the salt of the earth and the savor of men; they are called to be the savor of men; therefore, if that salt of the earth lose its savor, behold, it is thenceforth good for nothing only to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men (101:36-40). A great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men. Behold, I am God; give heed unto my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my words. Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap, let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God. Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God. Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion; Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (6:1-7). He that ascended up on high, as also he descended below all things, in that he comprehended all things, that he might be in all and through all things, the light of truth; which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was made. As also he is in the moon, and is the light of the moon, and the power thereof by which it was made; as also the light of the stars and the power thereof by which they were made; And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you stand. And the Light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings; which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things (88:6-13). For the shorter selections these may be cited: Treasure up in your minds continually the words of life (84:85). For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (25:12). Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in no wise lose their reward (58:27-28). For this is a day of warning, and not a day of many words. For I, the Lord, am not to be mocked in the last days (63:58). 1, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (82:10). Yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study and also by faith (88:118). And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasure; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen (89:18-21). For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple. The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth (93: 33-36). 138 Activities and Readings for Appreciation For the hour let the recital take two forms of activity. First, allow time for a reading and discussion of the truth and beauty to be found in the longer passages, references for more of which may be found below. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 Second, call upon each class member to recite from memory one or two shorter passages. There need not be any comment or discussion for such readings.

It is enough to know that the words of the Lord have been remembered. Additional readings from the Doctrine and Covenants: 63:49-54; 4324-30; 84:81-85; 128:19-25; 110:1-6; 121:1-6; 27:15-18; 84:99-102; 133:36-64; 122.

Home Training Lesson 7 Reverence Elder Joseph Jacobs
For Tuesday, May 25, 1948

Objective: Beginning of time.

VERENCE is profound respect or honor for a holy being or place or an exalted thing. One of the innate characteristics of human nature is that of reverence and respect for divine power—a power greater than that of man. There is something within the breast of every human being which instinctively reaches up for contact with his Maker, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind." This is the first and great commandment (Matt. 22:37-38). This is the true spirit of reverence.

From a quotation in the Doctrine and Covenants we learn that immortal as well as mortal beings give reverence and devotion to Deity: "And thus we saw the glory of the celestial, which excels in all things where God, even the Father, reigns upon his throne forever and ever; before whose throne all things bow in humble reverence and give him glory forever and ever" (76:92-93).

How Should We Treat the Name of the Lord?
Even the name of the Lord is to be treated with great reverence. "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain" (Exodus 20:7). From Clark's Commentary we read: This precept not only forbids all false oaths, but all swearing where the name of God is used, or where he is appealed to as a witness of the truth. It also necessarily forbids all light and irreverent mention of God, or any of his attributes; and we may safely add to all these, that every prayer, ejaculation, etc., that is not accompanied with deep reverence and the genuine spirit of piety, is here condemned also. Whatever the person himself may think or hope, however he may plead in his own behalf, and say he intends no evil, etc.; if he in any of the above ways, or in any other way, takes the name of God in vain, God will not hold him guiltless; he will account him guilty and punish him for it.

Jesus said, as recorded in Matthew 5:34-37:
"But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne: Nor by the earth, for it is his footstool: Neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King. Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black. But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil."

The name of Deity is so sacred that it should not be used frequently. This is the reason the name of the higher Priesthood was changed. There are in the church two priest-hoods, namely, the Melchizedek and Aaronic, including the Levitical Priesthood. Why the first is called the Melchizedek Priesthood is because Melchizedek was such a great high priest. Before his day it was called the Holy Priesthood, after the order of the Son of God. But out of respect or reverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to avoid the too frequent repetition of his name, they, the church, in ancient days, called that Priesthood after Melchizedek, or the Melchizedek Priesthood (D&C 107:1-4).

How Should We Revere Sacred Places?
Reverence for sacred places has been recognized from early Bible days. We read in Genesis:
"And Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran. And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And, behold, the Lord stood above it, and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed; and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. . . . And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place; and I knew it not. And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had set for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. . . . And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, if God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace; then shall the Lord be my God: And this stone which I have set for a pillar shall be God's house" (Gen. 28:10-22).

The story of Moses and the burning bush also depicts reverence for a sacred place:
"Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian; and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, a bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground" (Exodus 3:1-5).

It is likely that from this occurrence the nations of the East have come to perform their religious rites barefooted. The Greeks did so in ancient times and some sects, including the Mohammedans, still observe this custom.

Tourists visiting in the Near East who wish to go into a Mohammedan mosque today may do so provided they remove their shoes, or they may be furnished with slippers which have been previously blessed, to slip over their own shoes, thus preventing any pollution of sacred ground. The temple of Solomon was regarded as the most sacred edifice in all of Israel. Even while it was being built every precaution was taken to keep it so. Note the following passage: And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made ready before it was brought thither; so that there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building (I Kings 6:7). We read about the Court of the Gentiles in the temple of Herod, which indicates that gentiles were permitted to enter only a portion of the temple area. The Holy of Holies was the most sacred part of the temple into which the high priest was permitted to enter. An incident recorded in II Samuel shows in what reverence the Ark of the Covenant was held: And when they came to Nachon's threshing floor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it; for the oxen shook it. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of God (6:6-7). An incident which demonstrates the feeling of Jesus toward practices carried on in Herod's temple which were contrary to the sacred character of the temple, is recorded in Matthew 21:12-13: And Jesus went into the temple of God, and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves, and said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves. How Should We Regard Our Temples Today? Just as in ancient times, so in our day, the dedicating and sanctifying of holy temples are most carefully observed. Note the following excerpts taken from the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple, given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by revelation: And now we ask thee, Holy Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of thy bosom, in whose name alone salvation can be administered to the children of men, we ask thee, O Lord, to accept of this house, the workmanship of the hands of us, thy servants, which thou didst command us to build. For thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation; and out of our poverty we have given of our substance to build a house to thy name, that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people. That thy glory may rest down upon thy people, and upon this thy house, which we now dedicate to thee, that it may be sanctified and consecrated to be holy, and that thy holy presence may be continually in this house; And that all people who shall enter upon the threshold of the Lord's house may feel thy power, and feel constrained to acknowledge that thou hast sanctified it, and that it is thy house, a place of thy holiness. And that this house may be a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of glory and of God, even thy house; that all the incomings of thy people, into this house, may be in the name of the Lord; that all their outgoings from this house may be in the name of the Lord; And that all their salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with holy hands, uplifted to the Most High; and that no unclean thing shall be permitted to come into thy house to pollute it. We ask thee, Holy Father, to establish the people that shall worship, and honorably hold a name and standing in this thy house, to all generations and for eternity; that no weapon formed against them shall prosper; that he who diggeth a pit for them shall fall into the same himself; that no combination of wickedness shall have power to rise up and prevail over thy people upon whom thy name shall be put in this house; and if any people shall rise against this people, that thine anger be kindled against them; and if they shall smite this people thou wilt smite them; thou wilt fight for thy people as thou didst in the day of battle, that they may be delivered from the hands of all their enemies. O hear, O hear, O hear us, O Lord! And answer these petitions, and accept the dedication of this house unto thee, the work of our hands, which we have built unto thy name; and also this church, to put upon it thy name. And help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining seraphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing Hosanna to God and the Lamb! And let these, thine anointed ones, be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy. Amen, and Amen (D&C 109:4 ff.). From the dedicatory prayer of the Salt Lake Temple, given by President Wilford Woodruff, we read: O Lord, we regard with intense and indescribable feelings the completion of this sacred house. Deign to accept this the fourth temple which Thy covenant children have been assisted by Thee in erecting in these mountains.... We come before Thee with joy and thanksgiving, with spirits jubilant and hearts filled with praise, that Thou hast permitted us to see this day for which, during these forty years, we have hoped, and toiled, and prayed, when we can dedicate unto Thee this house which we have built to Thy most glorious name. One year ago we set the capstone with shouts of Hosanna to God and the Lamb. And today we Dedicate the whole unto Thee, with all that pertains unto it that it may be holy in Thy sight; that it may be a house of prayer, a house of praise and of worship; that Thy glory may rest upon it; that Thy holy presence may be continually in it. These, and numerous other quotations which could be cited, show that various places and buildings have been pronounced sacred and due reverence for them is enjoined.

ROEBUCK AND CO.
January

WHITE GOODS SALE
It's the season for savings at Sears. Quality is at its peak. While prices hit money-saving lows.
SEARS Main or State at 8th South Dial 5-6651

Professional Social Stationery
COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS
PAPER RULING
DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah

No places on earth are more sacred than our temples, and certainly anyone entering a house of the Lord should be clean both within and without, both in his mind and in his body. What Is the Responsibility of the Home in Teaching Reverence? The home has the first responsibility of instilling in children their earliest feelings of reverence; hence it is important that a reverential example be set in the home. The observance of family prayers, morning and evening, the blessing on the food, the reading of our Church works, are all helpful ways of teaching reverence to our children. Reverence for the Priesthood should be observed in the home. There should never be any criticism in the home against the Authorities of the Church. While these men are recognized as human beings, still they are individuals who have been chosen by God our Heavenly Father as his servants. In the army, even a second lieutenant is saluted by the enlisted soldiers because he holds a commission from the President of the United States. How much more respect should be given to those holding commissions from God.

The famous EASY-TO-READ Crystal Clear NATIONAL BIBLE No. 452. Leather, limp, gold edges. No. 453. Overlapping covers with Concordance QUALITY & MADE KING JAMES VERSION National pipes SINCE 1863 AT YOUR: BOOKSTORE Go "All-Electric"! It's the Modern Way BUY FROM YOUR DEALER (A Utah Power & Light Co.)

Message
142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948

LESSON DEPARTMENT

The whole Church should the holder of a commission from God be accorded. Not only the President of the Church, but every one who holds the Priesthood possesses a commission from our Heavenly Father. President Brigham Young stated: Whenever there is a disposition manifested in any of the members of this Church to question the right of the President of the whole Church to direct in all things, you see manifested evidence of apostasy or a spirit which, if encouraged, will lead to a separation from the Church and to final destruction; wherever there is a disposition to operate against any legally appointed officer of this Kingdom, no matter in what capacity he is called to act, if persisted in, it will be followed by the same results.... When a man begins to find fault, inquiring in regard to this, that, and the other, saying, "Does this or that look as though the Lord dictated it?" you may know that that person has more or less of the spirit of apostasy. Every man in this Kingdom, or upon the face of the earth, who is seeking with all his heart to save himself, has as much to do as he can conveniently attend to, without calling in question that which does not belong to him. If he succeeds in saving himself, it has well occupied his time and attention.

What Is the Responsibility of Parents in Teaching Their Children Reverence for Ward and Stake Buildings? Parents can do much to increase

143 On the Right Track! Are you "on the right track" to economical food buying? The track which leads you to your nearest O. P. Skaggs System Store? There you will find quality foods at prices that will please you.

0. P SKAGGS Efficient Service System STORES i USIC CO. 5-5881 SUMMERHAYS M 17 W. First So. AND SELDON N. HEAPS are widely and i a dependably known. Let Mr. Heaps help you. For 25 years he has been helping others. Get acquainted with him. He will give you person- al attention.

WURLITZER ORGANS "Music's Richest Voice" PIANOS Finest makes including SPINETS. VICTOR, DECCA, & CAPITOL RECORDS Choral numbers for the Relief Society and Choirs ae and foster respect for our houses of worship. Little children who attend meetings with their parents should be taught and shown by example the proper conduct to observe in the house of the Lord. They should be taught that reverence calls for quiet attention, and that boisterous or frivolous conduct is out of place. It is not becoming nor courteous for children or adults to leave a meeting before it is concluded, except in an emergency. It is observed, especially in general conference, that many people leave the meeting before the last song and prayer. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave us the following instruction in this regard: It is an insult to a meeting for persons to leave just before its close. If they must go out, let them go half an hour before.

No gentleman will go out of a meeting just at closing (D. C. H., pp. 338, 339).

SURI OULEEE Porter Walton's GARDEN BOOK FREE FLOWERS The new and better annuals, perennials, bulbs, shrubs and trees. See them in our catalog and have them in your own garden. Their beauty and fragrance will give you thrills of satisfaction.

VEGETABLES Big savings on family food costs and fresher, tastier, more healthful meals can come from your own garden. Plant a "Freedom Garden" to help increase America's food supply. You'll get biggest yields and extra flavor if _ plant "Mountain Grown seeds." Porter-Walton Co. P. O. Box 1619 Salt Lake City 11, Utah.

Only LESTER builds the famous BETSY ROSS SPINET FIRST OF ALL RELIABILITY 2 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH

144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 HELP... IDEAS.. INSPIRATION! For Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants teachers and classes Excellent chapters on THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS in SEVENTIES COURSE IN THEOLOGY By B. H. Roberts Numerous selected passages from THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS in By Judge Henry H. Rolapp Related and compared with other scripture.

DESERET BOOK COMPANY "BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" SALT LAKE CITY 10, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine GOSPEL QUOTATIONS 44 East South Temple Street $1.25 P. O. Box 958

Three Significant Gifts
"WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS 2" The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age BY President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.

An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. $1.50 postpaid. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society.

THE OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN Blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid gold front with 24 carat gold-plated back, bearing the motto and seal of Relief Society.

(Postpaid) $1.20

K Ke a "A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY" An illustrated history of the organization and achievements of the Society through the first hundred years.

SEND ALL ORDERS TO GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY  
28 Bishop's Building  
Salt Lake City 1, Utah
