Title: Literature: Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading
Author: Elder H. Wayne Driggs
Page: 135
Section: Work Meeting Sewing: Lesson 7 Plackets and Zippers Jean Ridges Jennings 133

Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, May 18, 1948 Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of values to be received from the Lord's word, THROUGHOUT the study of the Doctrine and Covenants this year, the literary values of this modern scripture have been stressed. It has been our purpose to appreciate the beauty, as well as the truth, of the Lord's word in our day. In all studies of literature there is need at the end of a course to enjoy, to appreciate, to remember. This can well be done in what we may call a literary recital of the choice passages from the Doctrine and Covenants studied during our lessons. In the main, these passages have divided themselves into longer and shorter readings. The longer ones may be illustrated by the following: Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principle of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true, but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distill upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever (121:34-46). Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. And the voice of warming shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them (1:1-5). Therefore, verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you.

And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith. Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God; that your incomings may be in the name of the Lord; that your outgoings may be in the name of the Lord; that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with uplifted hands unto the Most High. Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings. Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let not all be spokesmen at once; but let one speak at a time and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be edified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege. See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires. Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated (88:117- 124). Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full. Therefore, care not for the body, neither the life of the body; but care for the soul, and for the life of the soul. And seek the face of the Lord always, that in patience ye may possess your souls, and ye shall have eternal life. 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT When men are called unto mine everlasting gospel, and covenant with an everlasting covenant, they are accounted as the salt of the earth and the savor of men; they are called to be the savor of men; therefore, if that salt of the earth lose its savor, behold, it is thenceforth good for nothing only to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men (101:36-40). A great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men. Behold, I am God; give heed unto my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my words. Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap, let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God. Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God. Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you. Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion; Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (6:1-7). He that ascended up on high, as also he descended below all things, in that he comprehended all things, that he might be in all and through all things, the light of truth; which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was made. As also he is in the moon, and is the light of the moon, and the power thereof by which it was made; as also the light of the stars and the power thereof by which they were made; And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you stand. And the Light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings; which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things (88:6-13). For the shorter selections these may be cited: Treasure up in your minds continually the words of life (84:85). For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (25:12). Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in no wise lose their reward (58:27-28). For this is a day of warning, and not a day of many words. For I, the Lord, am not to be mocked in the last days (63:58). 1, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (82:10). Yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study and also by faith (88:118). And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasure; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen (89:18-21). For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple. The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth (93: 33-36). 138 Activities and Readings for Appreciation For the hour let the recital take two forms of activity. First, allow time for a reading and discussion of the truth and beauty to be found in the longer passages, references for more of which may be found below. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 Second, call upon each class member to recite from memory one or two shorter passages. There need not be any comment or discussion for such readings.

It is enough to know that the words of the Lord have been remembered. Additional readings from the Doctrine and Covenants: 63:49-54; 4324-30; 84:81-85; 128:19-25; 110:1-6; 121:1-6; 27:15-18; 84:99-102; 133:36-64; 122.

Home Training Lesson 7 Reverence Elder Joseph Jacobs
For Tuesday, May 25, 1948

Objective: Beginning of time.

VERENCE is profound respect or honor for a holy being or place or an exalted thing. One of the innate characteristics of human nature is that of reverence and respect for divine power—a power greater than that of man. There is something within the breast of every human being which instinctively reaches up for contact with his Maker, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind." This is the first and great commandment (Matt. 22:37-38). This is the true spirit of reverence.

From a quotation in the Doctrine and Covenants we learn that immortal as well as mortal beings give reverence and devotion to Deity: "And thus we saw the glory of the celestial, which excels in all things where God, even the Father, reigns upon his throne forever and ever; before whose throne all things bow in humble reverence and give him glory forever and ever" (76:92-93).

How Should We Treat the Name of the Lord?
Even the name of the Lord is to be treated with great reverence. "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain" (Exodus 20:7). From Clark's Commentary we read: This precept not only forbids all false oaths, but all swearing where the name of God is used, or where he is appealed to as a witness of the truth. It also necessarily forbids all light and irreverent mention of God, or any of his attributes; and we may safely add to all these, that every prayer, ejaculation, etc., that is not accompanied with deep reverence and the genuine spirit of piety, is here condemned also. Whatever the person himself may think or hope, however he may plead in his own behalf, and say he intends no evil, etc.; if he in any of the above ways, or in any other way, takes the name of God in vain, God will not hold him guiltless; he will account him guilty and punish him for it.

Jesus said, as recorded in Matthew 5:34-37:
"But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne: Nor by the earth, for it is his footstool: Neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King. Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black. But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil."

The name of Deity is so sacred that it should not be used frequently. This is the reason the name of the higher Priesthood was changed. There are in the church two priest-hoods, namely, the Melchizedek and Aaronic, including the Levitical Priesthood. Why the first is called the Melchizedek Priesthood is because Melchizedek was such a great high priest. Before his day it was called the Holy Priesthood, after the order of the Son of God. But out of respect or reverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to avoid the too frequent repetition of his name, they, the church, in ancient days, called that Priesthood after Melchizedek, or the Melchizedek Priesthood (D&C 107:1-4).

How Should We Revere Sacred Places?
Reverence for sacred places has been recognized from early Bible days. We read in Genesis:
"And Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran. And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And, behold, the Lord stood above it, and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed; and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. . . . And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place; and I knew it not. And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had set for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. . . . And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, if God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace; then shall the Lord be my God: And this stone which I have set for a pillar shall be God's house" (Gen. 28:10-22).

The story of Moses and the burning bush also depicts reverence for a sacred place:
"Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian; and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, a bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground" (Exodus 3:1-5).

It is likely that from this occurrence the nations of the East have come to perform their religious rites barefooted. The Greeks did so in ancient times and some sects, including the Mohammedans, still observe this custom.

Tourists visiting in the Near East who wish to go into a Mohammedan mosque today may do so provided they remove their shoes, or they may be furnished with slippers which have been previously blessed, to slip over their own shoes, thus preventing any pollution of sacred ground. The temple of Solomon was regarded as the most sacred edifice in all of Israel. Even while it was being built every precaution was taken to keep it so. Note the following passage: And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made ready before it was brought thither; so that there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building (I Kings 6:7). We read about the Court of the Gentiles in the temple of Herod, which indicates that gentiles were permitted to enter only a portion of the temple area. The Holy of Holies was the most sacred part of the temple into which the high priest was permitted to enter. An incident recorded in II Samuel shows in what reverence the Ark of the Covenant was held: And when they came to Nachon's threshing floor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it; for the oxen shook it. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of God (6:6-7). An incident which demonstrates the feeling of Jesus toward practices carried on in Herod's temple which were contrary to the sacred character of the temple, is recorded in Matthew 21:12-13: And Jesus went into the temple of God, and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves, and said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves. How Should We Regard Our Temples Today? Just as in ancient times, so in our day, the dedicating and sanctifying of holy temples are most carefully observed. Note the following excerpts taken from the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple, given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by revelation: And now we ask thee, Holy Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of thy bosom, in whose name alone salvation can be administered to the children of men, we ask thee, O Lord, to accept of this house, the workmanship of the hands of us, thy servants, which thou didst command us to build. For thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation; and out of our poverty we have given of our substance to build a house to thy name, that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people. That thy glory may rest down upon thy people, and upon this thy house, which we now dedicate to thee, that it may be sanctified and consecrated to be holy, and that thy holy presence may be continually in this house; And that all people who shall enter upon the threshold of the Lord's house may feel thy power, and feel constrained to acknowledge that thou hast sanctified it, and that it is thy house, a place of thy holiness. And that this house may be a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of glory and of God, even thy house; that all the incomings of thy people, into this house, may be in the name of the Lord; that all their outgoings from this house may be in the name of the Lord; And that all their salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with holy hands, uplifted to the Most High; and that no unclean thing shall be permitted to come into thy house to pollute it. We ask thee, Holy Father, to establish the people that shall worship, and honorably hold a name and standing in this thy house, to all generations and for eternity; that no weapon formed against them shall prosper; that he who diggeth a pit for them shall fall into the same himself; that no combination of wickedness shall have power to rise up and prevail over thy people upon whom thy name shall be put in this house; and if any people shall rise against this people, that thine anger be kindled against them; and if they shall smite this people thou wilt smite them; thou wilt fight for thy people as thou didst in the day of battle, that they may be delivered from the hands of all their enemies. O hear, O hear, O hear us, O Lord! And answer these petitions, and accept the dedication of this house unto thee, the work of our hands, which we have built unto thy name; and also this church, to put upon it thy name. And help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining seraphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing Hosanna to God and the Lamb! And let these, thine anointed ones, be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy. Amen, and Amen (D&C 109:4 ff.). From the dedicatory prayer of the Salt Lake Temple, given by President Wilford Woodruff, we read: O Lord, we regard with intense and indescribable feelings the completion of this sacred house. Deign to accept this the fourth temple which Thy covenant children have been assisted by Thee in erecting in these mountains.... We come before Thee with joy and thanksgiving, with spirits jubilant and hearts filled with praise, that Thou hast permitted us to see this day for which, during these forty years, we have hoped, and toiled, and prayed, when we can dedicate unto Thee this house which we have built to Thy most glorious name. One year ago we set the capstone with shouts of Hosanna to God and the Lamb. And today we Dedicate the whole unto Thee, with all that pertains unto it that it may be holy in Thy sight; that it may be a house of prayer, a house of praise and of worship; that Thy glory may rest upon it; that Thy holy presence may be continually in it. These, and numerous other quotations which could be cited, show that various places and buildings have been pronounced sacred and due reverence for them is enjoined.

ROEBUCK AND CO.
January

WHITE GOODS SALE
It's the season for savings at Sears. Quality is at its peak. While prices hit money-saving lows.
SEARS Main or State at 8th South Dial 5-6651

Professional Social Stationery
COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS
PAPER RULING
DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah

No places on earth are more sacred than our temples, and certainly anyone entering a house of the Lord should be clean both within and without, both in his mind and in his body. What Is the Responsibility of the Home in Teaching Reverence? The home has the first responsibility of instilling in children their earliest feelings of reverence; hence it is important that a reverential example be set in the home. The observance of family prayers, morning and evening, the blessing on the food, the reading of our Church works, are all helpful ways of teaching reverence to our children. Reverence for the Priesthood should be observed in the home. There should never be any criticism in the home against the Authorities of the Church. While these men are recognized as human beings, still they are individuals who have been chosen by God our Heavenly Father as his servants. In the army, even a second lieutenant is saluted by the enlisted soldiers because he holds a commission from the President of the United States. How much more respect should be given to those holding commissions from God.

The famous EASY-TO-READ Crystal Clear NATIONAL BIBLE No. 452. Leather, limp, gold edges. No. 453. Overlapping covers with Concordance QUALITY & MADE KING JAMES VERSION National pipes SINCE 1863 AT YOUR: BOOKSTORE Go "All-Electric"! It's the Modern Way BUY FROM YOUR DEALER (A Utah Power & Light Co.)

Message
142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948

LESSON DEPARTMENT

The whole Church should the holder of a commission from God be accorded. Not only the President of the Church, but every one who holds the Priesthood possesses a commission from our Heavenly Father. President Brigham Young stated: Whenever there is a disposition manifested in any of the members of this Church to question the right of the President of the whole Church to direct in all things, you see manifested evidence of apostasy or a spirit which, if encouraged, will lead to a separation from the Church and to final destruction; wherever there is a disposition to operate against any legally appointed officer of this Kingdom, no matter in what capacity he is called to act, if persisted in, it will be followed by the same results.... When a man begins to find fault, inquiring in regard to this, that, and the other, saying, "Does this or that look as though the Lord dictated it?" you may know that that person has more or less of the spirit of apostasy. Every man in this Kingdom, or upon the face of the earth, who is seeking with all his heart to save himself, has as much to do as he can conveniently attend to, without calling in question that which does not belong to him. If he succeeds in saving himself, it has well occupied his time and attention.

What Is the Responsibility of Parents in Teaching Their Children Reverence for Ward and Stake Buildings? Parents can do much to increase

143 On the Right Track! Are you "on the right track" to economical food buying? The track which leads you to your nearest O. P. Skaggs System Store? There you will find quality foods at prices that will please you.

0. P SKAGGS Efficient Service System STORES i USIC CO. 5-5881 SUMMERHAYS M 17 W. First So. AND SELDON N. HEAPS are widely and i a dependably known. Let Mr. Heaps help you. For 25 years he has been helping others. Get acquainted with him. He will give you person- al attention.

WURLITZER ORGANS "Music's Richest Voice" PIANOS Finest makes including SPINETS. VICTOR, DECCA, & CAPITOL RECORDS Choral numbers for the Relief Society and Choirs ae and foster respect for our houses of worship. Little children who attend meetings with their parents should be taught and shown by example the proper conduct to observe in the house of the Lord. They should be taught that reverence calls for quiet attention, and that boisterous or frivolous conduct is out of place. It is not becoming nor courteous for children or adults to leave a meeting before it is concluded, except in an emergency. It is observed, especially in general conference, that many people leave the meeting before the last song and prayer. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave us the following instruction in this regard: It is an insult to a meeting for persons to leave just before its close. If they must go out, let them go half an hour before.

No gentleman will go out of a meeting just at closing (D. C. H., pp. 338, 339).

SURI OULEEE Porter Walton's GARDEN BOOK FREE FLOWERS The new and better annuals, perennials, bulbs, shrubs and trees. See them in our catalog and have them in your own garden. Their beauty and fragrance will give you thrills of satisfaction.

VEGETABLES Big savings on family food costs and fresher, tastier, more healthful meals can come from your own garden. Plant a "Freedom Garden" to help increase America's food supply. You'll get biggest yields and extra flavor if _ plant "Mountain Grown seeds." Porter-Walton Co. P. O. Box 1619 Salt Lake City 11, Utah.

Only LESTER builds the famous BETSY ROSS SPINET FIRST OF ALL RELIABILITY 2 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH

144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948 HELP... IDEAS.. INSPIRATION! For Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants teachers and classes Excellent chapters on THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS in SEVENTIES COURSE IN THEOLOGY By B. H. Roberts Numerous selected passages from THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS in By Judge Henry H. Rolapp Related and compared with other scripture.

DESERET BOOK COMPANY "BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" SALT LAKE CITY 10, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine GOSPEL QUOTATIONS 44 East South Temple Street $1.25 P. O. Box 958

Three Significant Gifts
"WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS 2" The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age BY President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.

An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. $1.50 postpaid. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society.

THE OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN Blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid gold front with 24 carat gold-plated back, bearing the motto and seal of Relief Society.

(Postpaid) $1.20

K Ke a "A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY" An illustrated history of the organization and achievements of the Society through the first hundred years.

SEND ALL ORDERS TO GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY  
28 Bishop's Building  
Salt Lake City 1, Utah
