Howard S. McDonald Appointed President of B.Y.U. THE First Presidency announced on Wednesday, March 14, 1945, following a meeting of the board of trustees of the Brigham Young University, the appointment of Howard S. McDonald as the new president of the Brigham Young University to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of Dr. Franklin S. Harris who resigned to become president of the Utah State Agricultural College at Logan. Mr. McDonald has served as superintendent of schools in Salt Lake City since July 1 of last year. In that short period of time he has made an outstanding record of achievement in this position. Previous to that appointment he was deputy superintendent of San Francisco schools.
President McDonald is a devoted member of the Church. He was a missionary in the Eastern States, a stake M.I.A. and Sunday School officer in both the Cache and San Francisco Stakes, and served as counselor in the San Francisco Stake for five years before becoming president of that stake. His wife is the former Ella Gibbs of Brigham City. They have two daughters.
The General Board of Relief Society extends its congratulations both to President McDonald and also to the Brigham Young University on his appointment.
Relief Society members appreciate the opportunity of sending their sons and daughters to a college where not only courses in higher education are offered but, in addition, a training and association are provided which are not found elsewhere and which may prove a potent force in the lives of their children in strengthening and increasing their testimonies of the gospel.
?M.C.S.
 ERRATUM MARY SMITH ELLSWORTH NOT RELEASED An error was made in a statement in The, page 185, wherein it stated "Mary Smith Ellsworth, recently released president of Relief Societies of the Northern California Mission..." It is deeply regretted that this mistake was made and apologies are extended to Sister Ellsworth for any embarrassment which this misstatement may have caused her. Sister Ellsworth is continuing her splendid work as the president of the Relief Societies of the Northern California Mission,