He's Coming Home, Let's Spruce Up! The Honorable Earl J. Glade Mayor of Salt Lake City Prepared at the Request of the Church Beautification Committee WITH 30,000 of Salt Lake City's sons and daughters scattered to the far reaches of the wide, wide world, and sacrificing their comforts of home and their associations with loved ones, and sometimes giving their very lives, it is indeed difficult for us on the home front to focus our thinking on the centennial celebration for 1947. A grateful Utah capital city is earnestly praying that, surely by then, this crushing, devastating war will be over, and our own brave boys and girls will be right here again in the old home town. But ours must be an alert home town! It must be not only on its toes; Salt Lake City must be on its tip-toes! If the 173,218 Salt Lakers will all just catch the spirit of homecoming, it will not be such a Gargantuan job to make a brilliant centennial showing. Here's How: Every home owner should take a 1945 spring inventory of "dress-up musts" and give them the works! New parking to be seeded; new concrete walks to be laid; a new roof for the home; two coats of fresh paint all around. Aged and decaying trees should come down. Alleys should be cleaned. During 1945 and 1946, neighborhood should vie Page 282 with neighborhood in this great home-coming dress-up! We shall be doing it for our own ?the best youngsters in the world! What we say for Salt Lake City, of course, goes also for every town in the State. The proposed 1947 centennial might well catch the spirit oi a great homecoming celebration/ Just as the pioneers in 1847 found their haven in Salt Lake valley, so, too, will our own young men and young women in the armed services be grateful?yes, unspeakably glad to be home. Business and Industry on the Job, Too! Just as each home must step out and dress up, so, too, must business and industry?new store front, new display windows, new interiors, new and finer signs. Down with shacks and dumps! Out with rubbish and junk! City, county, and State administrations must tie in with each other in selling their respective communities as being good places in which to locate new industries. Surely, by 1947, there will be some determinations regarding Geneva Steel which, if good fortune breaks just right, may prove the basis of an entire new economy for the Inter-mountain Empire. The newly electrified Northwest of Seattle and Portland will want Utah steel for their rapidly growing manufacturing industries, which will also undoubtedly help largely to supply a new China and a new Russia, as well as the great new Westl Salt Lake City Also to the Front! HE'S COMING HOME, LET'S SPRUCE UP! 283 The city corporation must also bend every effort to meet this call for a home-coming spruce-up. To the very utmost of our finances must our highways be put in shape. The incumbent administration is devoting its energies to getting the city out of debt and at the same time carrying on municipal improvements every way in its power. This is a Herculean task! At this time, new, large feeder water mains are being laid to take care of the homes on the higher east and north bench elevations. Salt Lake City parks are being put in the finest shape in their history. The mile track in Liberty Park, for instance, is being paved this year. And an ambitious paving program, together with extensive improvements, is also proceeding in the City Cemetery. Salt Lake City seriously needs an auditorium of ample capacity. Such a structure would provide the locale and facilities for many new community achievements. The easy way to finance this vital need would be to go in debt for it, by bonding. We are hopeful of being able to find another way, for borrowing would just add to our financial slavery. Our present bond retirement plan is a courageous one, and if strictly adhered to, will get our city reasonably out of debt in a few years. Utah's capital city must do its share to prepare for the great centennial home-coming. By getting the utmost out of every dollar expended, great achievement in city beautification can be wrought. Possibly, pending developments in municipal financing on which we are earnestly working, will help us also to meet the perennial community stumper: "Well, Mayor, what are we going to use for money?" Maybe, one of these days, we'll surprise the man who throws that question at us, by having an answer ready that will be an answer. Let's just see!