All-Year Care of the Rose Beds Hazel D. Moyle "A rose is a rose is a rose is a rose? says that woman poet, Gertrude Stein, meaning, no doubt, that to say it is a rose is enough, for does not all mankind acknowledge the rose as the acme of perfection, the queen of all flowers! The back-yard flower gardener might, however, be inclined to add a more practical word or two to this poetic roundelay. Well do we know that roses do not grow in such obliging and supreme beauty unless we follow a few rules and regulations. We may purchase the finest and newest modern rose bush, guaranteed to be bigger and better than any other ever seen, but if we do not give that plant a little regular care, its blooms may prove to be disappointing. Roses do demand certain attentions, but few other flowers give such generous returns for the little they do demand. The plants often live and flower abundantly each year for a lifetime, requiring no replanting, resetting or dividing. The modern hybrid tea rose, which is the type now planted so universally in our gardens, blooms not once a year, but it often sends out two, three, and even four crops of flowers in a single season. Fall roses rival those of June in our Utah gardens, some rose lovers actually claiming that they excel the earlier crops. With the cooler weather, their colors are even richer and more brilliant than during the warm June days. Page 284 The attentions that roses demand are simple, the important point is, they must be given regularly. First of all comes the job of uncovering the plants in early spring (that is, if you live in a cold section where they need winter protection). Begin loosening the coverings as soon as the hard freezing is over, but do not actually remove it on the first warm day. Gradually uncover so that the tender wood which has been covered all winter can become accustomed to air and cooler temperatures. Likewise, do not cut the long old wood back until the buds begin to swell. Go slowly, even though you are impatient to begin work, because of late cold snaps of weather. But do not put off pruning until the top buds are actually growing actively, for this will take much of the stored-up strength of the plant which will then be lost as the plants are cut back. Consider all these conditions well, then use your best judgment as to the best time to begin. In pruning the hybrid tea roses, cut out all the weak and crooked branches at their base, preserving only the heavy strong canes. Cut out also any that grow toward the center and interfere with sun and air. Then shorten those you have selected to remain from eight to twelve inches. Sometimes winter has already done this and we have no choice but to cut away the dead wood down to the remaining plump buds. In colder sections the entire top growth may have been killed, but be comforted and cut away the dead wood even so, for fresh new growth will soon spring from the roots and you will still reap roses come year. A later, but perhaps an even better crop.
CLIMBING roses need little pruning in early spring except the cutting away of dead wood ... and be warned that it is often difficult to detect just how much is actually dead. Leave your climbers strictly alone until growth actually begins so that you can be spared the sad experience of finding that you have removed branches that would otherwise be sporting a crop of lovely roses when June comes.
The best time to trim the climbers is just after they have bloomed. Such varieties as "American Pillar" and "American Beauty Climber" should have the old canes that have just bloomed cut away at the base to make room for the vigorous new shoots that will be found springing up from the root. These old canes of this type of climber do not bloom again and merely encumber the plant with dead wood. Get them out of the way as soon as possible after they have flowered. Such strong, large-flowered climbers as "Silver Moon" and "Dr. Van Fleet" need only the removal of the oldest wood occasionally after they have become established, to prevent the plant from spreading and also to keep it vital and alive. If left too long without this attention, it becomes almost impossible to remove old dead branches that will gradually choke it to death. These varieties need restraining as they mature (after two or three years' growth).
A thorough cultivation of the soil of the rose bed is of the greatest importance as soon as it is workable in spring, and this will bring to light many pests that have buried themselves during the winter. Many claim that this is the best defense against the rose beetle, most devastating of all rose pests. Cultivate and stir right up to the base of each plant and stir in any mulch of manure that you may have been able to apply over the winter.
And now we come to that subject of regular care which roses demand throughout the entire summer: cultivation, watering, and spraying. Of these three, cultivating comes first. We must keep the soil from getting hard and baked and firm, for the plants must have air, food, and moisture. Water will not penetrate unless the surface is kept loose and open, and our plants will then sulk and produce poor, slimy blooms. By beginning early and cultivating regularly the day following each watering, when the soil will again have sufficient aeration, this task is made easy, and it will at the same time prevent all weeds from growing.
Use a long-handled, three-pronged cultivator, or any other convenient small tool that will suit your taste, but wield it often and regularly so that your soil will remain loose and open. A mulch of either old, well-rotted manure or of peat moss, or even of lawn clippings can be a great help in keeping the soil from baking, and this will also keep the ground cool and prevent weeds and conserve moisture. If we are fortunate enough to be able to put a two-inch layer of manure, then this will also act as a mild and steady feeding, as well as making an excellent mulch. Roses need rich fare, and they especially thrive on manure. Chemical fertilizers can be applied, too, if the manure is not easily procured, but these must be used strictly according to directions of the brand you select. In using this type of fertilizer, first loosen the top soil, then scatter the fertilizer in a circle about each plant, then apply a deep watering immediately. Such an application can be applied in the spring, and repeated two weeks after the first crop of bloom is over. Rose plants need plenty of moisture, although water should be applied by soaking deeply instead of sprinkling. Remove the nozzle from the hose and allow to run until the ground is well saturated. Then leave the beds until they begin to dry out before applying more moisture. Such a watering will last for a week's time if it is followed by a cultivation the following day. Pest control is also a regular requirement. The best control is to apply one of the all-purpose sprays available at all nursery stores, beginning with an early application as soon as the leaves have begun to open well, and continuing at two-week intervals during the growing season. By sucha program, one can prevent the many ills and pernicious pests from getting started. Remember that no matter what chemical spray or dust you use, it must be applied from underneath so that it reaches the underside of the leaves as well as the upper parts, for it is there that most of the creatures hide out. And the entire plant must be covered to catch any of the chewing insects no matter where they attack. Should your plants show signs of mildew?our most common plant disease, which manifests itself in a grayish, powder-like substance coating the leaves, use Massey dust, also secured at the nursery store, and if this is not procurable, apply dusting sulphur with a dust gun, coating the entire plant and repeating the application until the trouble disappears. There is one pest for which we have as yet found no cure. The villainous rose beetle appears in early June, just as your most lovely roses are coming into full flower, and it thrusts its terrible, long proboscis or beak into the very heart of the flower, despoiling and completely ruining its exquisite perfection. You must hand pick this creature if you would be free from its devastation. Arm yourself with a small pail of water and a little kerosene, then go forth to battle. Shake or flip each black, small bug (you will find them sitting stupidly among your treasures), into the water where it will drown. Its only redeeming feature is that the rose bug does not remain long, but eventually disappears, digging itself into the ground to lay its eggs for another generation of trouble for the next year. The early cultivation of the soil which we advised above will bring to light and destroy these new generations of this pest Active cultivation and feeding of the rose plants should stop after mid-August so that the wood may ripen and harden to withstand winter. New, soft growth will not withstand hard freezing. Winter pro-(Concluded on page 320)