			NAAMAN. 

	The tableaux of the Bible are all brief, but
they are sublime and beautiful, and always
edifying. They leave on the mind that reads
them, meditatively and understandingly, a 
lingering pathos, a desire to imitate the
characters that compose them, and a love and
reverence for the same. 
	That of Naaman has ever impressed me
as one from which much instruction may be
derived; it seems that no one can read his
dreadful affliction, his marvelous blessings, and
restoration to perfect health, even "as a little
child," and all through the instrumentality of
a little captive maid, without lingering over it,
again and again, with a feeling of deep re-
flection and of love and beauty pervading the
mind. Naaman, we are told in the sacred
history, was greatly in favor with the King of
Syria, being captain of the host, and was
honorable, because by him the Lord had given
deliverance into Syria; he was also a mighty
man in valor; but—he was a leper!
	Now, the Syrians had gone out in companie,
and, had brought away captive a little maids

[Column 2]
and she waited on Naaman's wife. Now here
is left a wide space for the imagination of
the reader—how much is contained in these
few words; all prelude is entirely omitted, but
the sequel assures us that this lady was a noble
woman, and had taken the little maid under
her care and had excited in her mind a love
for her employers, and that her young heart
had thought over and commiserated the afflic-
tion of her master. Though young and a 
captive, brought from her home and friends, 
the kindness of her mistress had excited her
warm sympathy, as no doubt she saw daily
how sad the affliction of her husband made
her. It would appear that some allusion had
been made to this great affliction, for the
words seem to rush from her heart to her lips,
and she breaks out, "Would God, my lord
were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for
He would recover him of his leprosy." What
a simple assertion! and yet what decided faith
is in every word of it; what reverence and de-
votion to her employers; how rare, but yet how
beautiful.
	The narrative goes on to say, "These words
were told to Naaman"—most probably by his 
wife—and the great officer of state must have
had a noble, unprejudiced mind, to listen to an
asssrtion from the little captive maid! but
affliction is generally accompanied by humility,
and a promise of relief in such severe suffering,
even from so humble a source, was attractive,
for she had spoken positively, and her words
were thrilling; she had preached one of the
principles of the Gospel, and we know the
power of God goes with them. Probably he
had been impressed with the serious, devout
mind of the child, which would naturally give
weight to her words, and he pondered upon
them. It appears that the words of the child
had been told to the King of Syria, and di-
rectly he determined to send a letter to the
King of Israel with a handsome present, and
said in the letter he had written, "I herewith
send Naaman my servant unto thee, that thou
mayst recover him of his leprosy!" But when
the King had read the letter, he rent his
clothes and said, "Am I God, that this man 
doth send unto me to recover a man of his
leprosy? See how he seeketh a quarrel against
me."
	Elisha heard that the King of Israel was
much excited over the letter, and he went to
him and said, "Wherefore has thou rent thy
clothes? Let him come now to me, and he
shall know that there is a prophet in Israel."
	So Naaman went with his horses and char-
iots, and waited at the door of the house of
Elisha; and Elisha sent a messenger to him,
saying, "Go wash in Jordan seven times, and 
thy flesh shall cleave unto thee, and thou shalt
be clean."
	But Naaman turned away in anger; his
pride was wounded; he thought that Elisha
himself would surely have come out to him, 
one of the most favored officers of the King,
that he would have drawn "his hand over the
place, and so recovered" him; he also thought
that the Jordan was too insignificant a stream
in which for him to wash; why, said he, not 
wash in one of the noble rivers of Damascus?
So "he turned away in a rage."
	Now again we see a display of the lurking
humility of Naaman's character, for the
historian goes on to say, "His servants came
near and spake unto him and said, 'My Father
if the Prophet had told thee to do some great
thing, wouldst thou not have done it? How
much rather, then, when he saith to thee, wash
and be clean.' Then he went and dipped
seven times in Jordan, according to the saying
of the man of God, and his flesh came again
like the flesh of a little child's, and he was
clean."
	Then he returned to Elisha and said, "Now
I know that there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel," and he desired to make him a

[Column 3]
handsome present, but Elisha said, "As the
Lord liveth, before whom I stand, I will take 
nothing." Then Naaman declares that hence-
forth he will offer neither burnt offering nor
sacrifice to any God but unto the Lord; but he
entreated Elisha to pardon him when he 
should have to attend to the King when he went
to "worship in the House of Rimmon, and
would have to bow himself down with the
King; the Lord pardon thy servant in this
thing." And Elisha said to him, "Go in
peace." So he returned healed and blessed to
his own house. We read no more of Naaman,
nor of the little maid who was the instrument
in the hand of God of bringing about that
glorious result; her name is not even given; her
sex and occupation is all that she is designated
by; but the meditative mind will draw her
picture as a pure, affectionate and appreciative
child of God, and it is sweet and beautiful in
its brief simplicity, and is a subject for con-
templation, especially for the young of every
age, as an example to them to follow and imi-
tate. The Scripture says "she was of the
land of Israel." Hence, of course, she was of
Hebrew blood, and this will account for her
great knowledge of the prophet of God. Her
education had evidently been carefully at-
tended to, and her young character evinced
faith, reverence, affection, gratitude, with
dignity and seriousness of mature age. I re-
quest my young friends to read this history of
Naaman and the "little maid"—they will find
it both interesting and instructive. It will be
found in ii Kings, chapter v. In the same
chapter they will read of Gehazi, the servant
of Elisha, who, hearing his master refuse the
rich present offered him by Naaman, deter-
mines to bespeak it for himself, and having
procured it, returns and stands before his
master, who is severely angry with him, and
says to him, "The leprosy of Naaman shall
cleave unto thee forever, and he went out from
his presence a leper as white as snow."
				HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City.


