A GLIMPSE OF NEW YORK CITY.

	Arriving late on Sunday night, or early Mon-
day morning was rather an awkward entre into a
greatcity, and most provoking, too, when one
was desirous of seeing to the best advantage this
place of great renown.
	Morning dawned, however, and as soon as pos-
sible we were out upon Broadway, and gazing up
and down at the crowds of people hurrying to and
fro, hither and thither, without cessation, as
though some great event had just transpired to
bring a crowd together. This was holiday week,
and a good time to see New York in holiday attire;
everywhere brilliant and gorgeous colors were
displayed, and fancy goods of all descriptions in
the greatest abundance, and, in fact, everything
useful, substantial, ornamental and decorative.
We learned afterwards that it was very confusing
even to those accustomed to shopping in this great
city. The display made at Tiffany's was dazzling,
and one could not help being a little dazed with
the elaborate showing, as also at the enormous
prices. After rambling around awhile alone, and
n and out of two or three bookstores, and look-
ing over a directory, we took a car and went in
the direction of Governor's Island. Arriving at
the landing, we crossed over in the boat which
plied regularly for the accomodation of the service,
and on reaching the port, made inquiry of a
guard, or a soldier on duty, for Lieut. R. W.
Young's residence. We found the handsome and
fascinating young Lieut. tending the new baby
and his charming wife and himself both very glad
to see someone from home. We had a long chat
over affairs in Salt Lake, lunching meantime, and
then the Lieut. offered to escort Aunt Em around
New York the remainder of the day. We went
first to Battery Place, then took a good look at
Castle Gardens, and from thence to the elevated
railway, and rode along some of the principal
streets, the Lieut. pointing out, as we passed
them, many places of special interest. After this
we went to the Produce Exchange Building, as
from its top the Lieut. thought we could see as
much of New York as could be taken in at one
view. The ground floor is occupied mainly for
offices—a branch of the New York Post Office in
one part. Taking the elevator, we reached a
gallery where we could look down into the Ex-
change business hall, and see the crowd of men
below, who were, apparently, very much excited
over the transactions, in which they were, no
doubt, from their manner, intensely interested
financially. It was all quite unintelligible to one
not initiated into the method of proceedings.
They were grain merchants transacting daily
business, etc. To a stranger it was a sort of
noisy Babel. Leaving this part of the building,
we ascended in the elevator to the very top of the
campanile, a distance of two hundred feet, and
walked out upon the roof, where we had a good
view in all directions of the city and its surround-
ings, and the shipping as well. One of the
novelties of this scene was the trains of cars be-

[Column 2]

ing ferried over in boats. The Produce Ex-
change is a splendid new building on Bowling
Green; it covers a whole square, and is very
grand and imposing in its appearance. It is con-
structed after the manner of the Italian Renais
sance, considerably modified, however. The ma-
terial used in the structure is brick and terra
cotta, with granite porches and base; the average
height of facade is one hundred and twenty-five
feet. The main Exchange Hall on the second
floor, where the Produce Exchange members
make their rendezvous, is sixty feet in height.
This organization is said to be "the largest in the
world. Its membership is limited to 3,000, which
is now full." The upper stories are divided into
three hundred offices. The Produce Exchange
is considered one of the finest architectural fea-
tures in New York.
	St. Patrick's Cathedral is the church of churches
in architectural beauty and magnificence. When
we entered the music made a great impression, it
seemed so heavenly, and after a few moments
we understood why; it was children's voices, and
they were practicing in the organ gallery for the
Christmas exercises. The structure is not yet
completed, although in use. Of the seventy
windows that light the building, thirty-seven are
memorial to saints and sacred subjects; they
were made at Chartres, France, and presented by
parishes and individuals. All this is beautiful in
design, and indicates refinement in art and culture,
but a Latter-day Saint could scarcely help solilo-
quizing on the subject of empty forms and cere-
monies such as present themselves in a place of
Catholic worship. While we were there admir-
ing the workmanship and ingenuity that had
planned this handsome edifice, one after another
the worshipers came in and knelt for a moment at
some one of the many crosses that were in the
body of the cathedral, or dipping their fingers in
the elegant basins of holy water, crossed them-
selves with the utmost sanctity, and counted over
their beads.
	The architecture of this vast cathedral is of the
style that prevailed in Europe in the thirteenth
century, of which it is said the Cathedrals of
Rhiems, Cologne and Amiens on the continent
and the naves in the York, Minster, Exeter and
Westminster are exponents. The edifice is of white
marble with base of granite. The columns that
support the roof are of the most highly polished
white marble, and all the interior of the building
is as exquisitely elegant, seemingly, as it could
possibly be made. No expense has been spared,
evidently, in fitting up this grand cathedral for
sacred worship.
	Wandering out of the Roman Catholic domain,
pondering upon religious views and opinions of
the various sects and denominations of the day,
we mentally contrasted the condition of the vari-
ous churches with that of the true Church, and
congratulated ourselves that we were so highly
favored as to have a positive knowledge of the
principles of life and salvation, that we might not
be tossed about with every wind of doctrine, and
the dogmas of man, who preach for hire. We
went into Fifth Avenue to see some of those
palaces of the rich that stand there in silent
beauty, as ornaments to the great metropolis. On
this street are the Vanderbilt residences, and also
the palatial home of John Jacob Astor.
	The Lieut. also took us to see the fourteen
story tenement houses, occupied as French Flats,
which, on account of their style and magnificence,
rent for enormous sums per month. Daylight
was fast waning into starlight as we wended our
way to the Grand Central Hotel on Broad-
way. Part of the evening we spent most agree-
ably with Mr. and Mrs. John Neals, well known
in Utah, in company with Mr. Fred Clawson, son
of Bishop H. B. Clawson, who is in college in
New York, studying very hard, and preparing
himself for professional work.

[Column 3]

	The second day in New York we devoted to
calling upon acquaintances, etc. The most inter-
esting place we visited was the old store and pub-
lishing house of the Phrenological Journal (Fowler
& Wells) There we found Mrs. Charlotte F.
Wells busy as possible attending to business,
though now on the shady side of seventy. She
took great pains to show and explain many of the
skulls ranged there as phrenological studies, and
gave us much information in detail concerning
each one as she handled them. It is quite appar-
ent that she takes great delight in this labor, and
her life and energies are devoted largely to
scientific pursuits, which she has the ability to
treat upon with intelligence in a very happy man-
ner. In the evening we attended the Madison
Square theatre, and saw a very good domestic
drama—The Minister's Daughter—a play with
an excellent moral and very well presented. The
theatre is quite unique in style and prettily decora-
ted, the striking novelty being an elevator stage,
which is raised and lowered between the acts, and
renders the business part quite easy, and does
away with the waiting between acts, which is
sometimes very tedious. There was a fair sized
audience, but the only face we knew was that of
one of the Utah Commissioners, who seemed per-
fectly at ease with his conscience, and smiled as
serenely as if he had not helped to kindle the in-
dignation of the nation against some of the best
citizens of this free Republic. How many happy
homes are broken up, or helpless women and
children cast upon the charity of a cold, unfeel-
ing world, while the husbands and fathers of lov-
ing families are immured in vile and unwholesome
prisons, such men care not, while they can draw
a fat salary from the public treasury. But it must
needs be that offenses come, and God's plans go on
notwithstanding the opposition from the doctrines
and precepts of men. The Latter-day Saints can
with all safety acknowledge the hand of God in
all things and trust in His deliverance in the fu-
ture as in the past.
	This is but a cursory glance at New York City,
and though we have plenty of material we must
be brief in description. Returning from the
theatre with Mr. Clawson, we had an excellent
opportunity to see New York City by gaslight, and
as he knows the city thoroughly, and the stores
were on parade, so to speak, and the streets
thronged, we went on several of the most fashion-
able ones and saw the elaborate display made at
this festive season of the year.
	In our next we will treat upon New England in
winter, its scenes and places, and how things
looked there and the great changes which had
taken place during forty years' absence.


