NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Thibetan women are restricted to the
color green in their clothes; but they purchase
corals and pearls to ornament their head-dress,
which is the most costly part of a Tibetan
lady's attire, and is sometimes of the value of
a thousand pounds sterling.
	Miss Florence Hale, of the Ladies' Art Asso-
ciation, New York, stains and paints glass,
and fires her decorated glass and china in her
own kiln. She has orders from large firms to
copy ancient stained glass, and is said to be
the only woman in this country who does this
work in all its stages.
	Mrs. Farr, of Minneapolis, this year gave a
Christmas dinner to the newsboys of that city.
Mrs. Farr is a business woman, doing a busi-
ness of $60,000 annually. She takes a great
interest in poor children, and is a special
friend to the newsboys and bootblacks of Min-
neapolis.—Woman's Journal.
	Genevieve Aylmer Farrell, of Arlington
Heights, Ill., though but eleven years old, has
been for three years an active and successful
silk culturist. As her parents are invalids,
much responsibility devolves upon her. She
has fitted up a cocoonery with everything
needful; in the past three summers she has
raised six fine crops of silk-worms, and her
cocoons and reeled silk are said to be marvels
of beauty. During the past year she has
edited a silk culture department in several
papers, and has written a series of letters on
the subject for various papers and magazines.
Last spring she published a book entitled
"Two Summers in a Cocoonery," which is highly
praised.


Patents have been issued to women during
the fortnight ending December 1st, 1885, as
follows:
	Harriet N. Ewing, Philadelphia, Penn.
Game Apparatus.
	Harriet A. Hulburd, Perrysburg, Ohio,
Scrap-book.
	Elizabeth Hull, New York, Folding Soap-
dish.
	Ellen N. Price, Brighton, England, Convert-
able Garment.
	Jennie R. Fuller, Toledo, Ohio, Fire-
escape.
	Mary J. Liggett, Wooster, Ohio, Bed-cover
fastener.
	Charlotte E. Page, Chicago, Ill., Neck-tie.
	Rachel S. Thompson, Hamilton, Ohio, Cas-
ter.
	Patents have been issued to women during
the fortnight ending December 8, 1885, as
follows:
	Mary E. Clark, Fairville, N. Y., Fruit-
drier.
	Mary M. Jones, Menomonee, Wis., Corset.


