	AND APPEAL FOR JUSTICE.

	By courtesy of Hon. John T. Caine we are
favored with a copy of the following letter, which
he presented to President Cleveland on the date
mentioned:
		WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. 10, 1885.
	Sir—I have the honor to transmit herewith the
result of the inquiry made by the Council of Salt
Lake City touching the unfounded representations
made to you by the Governor of the Territory of
Utah and other Federal officials, seriously reflect-
ing upon the peaceable and law-abiding character
of the "Mormon" citizens of that Territory.
	I am sure that you will be convinced after read-
ing the official report of the City Council, that the
Federal officials grossly misrepresented the
character of the "Mormon" people, and that there
was not a scintilla of truth in the statements they
made to you of danger to life and property at the
hands of lawless men inspired by "Mormon"
leaders.
	You will notice that the scope of the inquiry
was broad enough to cover the whole ground;
that the Federal officers and the military authori-
ties were invited to be present and give their testi-
mony; that every wild rumor was traced to its
origin. You will observe that it was conclusively
proved that no body of armed men came into Salt
Lake City, and that the rumor of the threatened
lynching of Deputy Marshal Collin was wholly
untrue; that the gathering at the City Hall on the
night of the shooting of McMurrin by Collin was
a quiet and orderly assembling of not more than
two hundred people; that the stories about the
secretion of arms and ammunition in the city, and
the organizing and arming of "Mormons" in the
various settlements throughout the Territory were
without any foundation in fact.
	I cannot doubt, sir, that you must be satisfied
that the monstrously false stories which have been
telegraphed to the eastern press had their source
in the same quarter whence emanated the repre-
sentations made to you. They are but exaggera-
tions of the baseless rumors which irresponsible
partisans of the Governor originated, doubtless
for the sole purpose of affording him a pretext for
requesting the quartering of Federal soldiers in
Salt Lake City.
	As I have, heretofore, assured you, verbally and
in writing, it is not the presence of troops quar-
tered in the city of Salt Lake, which we protest
against, but the false, malicious, and inexcusable
misrepresentations which induced you to order
them thither. I beg you, sir, to reflect for a
moment upon the serious injury these false accusa-
tions have caused a whole community, which,
whatever may be the difference of opinion, respect-
ing some of its religious teachings and practices,
is recognized by the whole civilized world as an
eminently peaceable and conservative one. Not
only have the vast material interests of the "Mor-
mon" people been irreparably damaged by these
wickedly false stories, but a feeling of insecurity
has been created thereby in the minds of capital-
ists who have invested millions in Utah.
	I respectfully submit, Mr. President, that the
men who have so grossly deceived you in this
matter are unworthy of your confidence and unfit


[Column 2]
to represent the Federal government. Their of-
fense has not been a trivial one. It is a very
grave and serious matter to bear false witness
against an individual, and still more reprehensible
to villify, traduce and lie about a whole people.
The offending of the unworthy officials has been
aggravated by their inspiring the wildly sensational
dispatches to the press of the country, which
would have been treated as they deserved by all
reflecting people if the stamp of truth had not
been given to the same by the ordering of troops
from Omaha to Utah, and the quartering thereof
in Salt Lake City.
	Far removed as you are from the scene of these
occurrences, and naturally reposing confidence in
the men who represent the Federal Government
in Utah, you doubtless felt that it was but pru-
dence on your part to respond to their application
for additional troops. Controlling, as these officials
do, an intemperate and violently partisan news-
paper, and through it the associated press dis-
patches sent from Salt Lake City, they have been
able to give wide circulation to their deliberately
manufactured falsehoods. The action of the
Federal Government, thus induced, in its turn
superinduced a belief on the part of millions of
people that the "Mormons" were on the point of
actual rebellion. While, therefore, it is true that
the presence of additional troops in Utah and the
quartering of a company in Salt Lake City has not
been per se an injury to any individual the result-
ant consequences have been most seriously
injurious to the "Mormon" people and indeed to
the whole country.
	The men who are responsible for these things,
I repeat, ought not to retain your confidence. I
submit, moreover, that in view of the demonstra-
ted unreliability of these officials, of their (to say
the least) suspicious conduct, the people I have
the honor to represent ought to have the oppor-
tunity to be heard by fair and impartial men who
would report the truth to you. I am sure that
there are many such men who would gladly re-
spond to an invitation from you to visit Utah and
make inquiry and report the facts for the guidance
of your administration.
			Very respectfully,
						JOHN T. CAINE.
	To the President.


