THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.

	On Monday, the 11th inst., the Territorial Legisla-
ture convened for the purpose of enacting laws
for the people whose representatives they are.
Some of the present members have, for a number
of years, assembled here in this capacity,
which fact shows the great esteem in which they
are held in their several constituencies; whilst
others are comparatively young and inexperienced
men. Yet, the fact that they are elected to such
offices of honor and trust, proves their efficiency,
and that they possess the highest regard and confi-
dence of the people.
	We sincerely hope that during this session the
best of feelings will prevail, and success crown
all the efforts for wise and necessary legislation
that the members may attempt. However, the
outlook is anything but promising, while a governor
with the absolute veto threatens that he will do
nothing for the people until the legislature pass
laws against the people. In reality this is all that
the long harangue, called the Governor's Message,
delivered Tuesday afternoon, amounted to. In


[Column 1]
reviewing the message, it is not our purpose to
dwell at any length on its several parts—points it
has few—in fact it does not merit it, for the whole
is merely a mixture of egotism, insinuation and
abuse, such as might usually be expected in an
anti-polygamy lecture, gotten up for outside effect.
We regard it as a perfect insult to the people of
this Territory, and can readily imagine the feel-
ings of disgust which must have arisen in the
breasts of our legislators while they were com-
pelled to sit quietly and listen to it. Look at such
sentences as these:
	"Remember the aid given by the government to
the hardy pioneers who settled Utah. Remember
that not one life of those who settled Utah was
put in jeopardy in the battles with Mexico." To
what aid does His Excellency refer? We remem-
ber only that in those days our government refused
to protect us, and allowed us to be driven from
our comfortable homes into the wilderness. Sup-
port during our long journey, and in the early
days in Utah, we had none, save from the One
who protects all who have faith in Him—our
Heavenly Father. We remember, in the hour of
our greatest need, government called upon us for,
and was willing to take from us, our strongest and
bravest men to aid in the war with Mexico. Was
no life in jeopardy then? Is there ever a battle
fought in which only the actual participants are in
danger? Was there not danger in this instance
to those poor wives, mothers, sisters and children
who were left on the lonely, dreary plains to pur-
sue their journey without their kind protectors?
We do not ask Governor Murray to think of the
sufferings, the hardships, the trials that our people
endured in the early days of Utah, when they
lived in the rudest huts, ate roots and the coarsest
food, fought and labored day and night to protect
themselves from the wolves and Indians. He is
perhaps incapable of considering the thought, but
he ought to remember that the men to whom he
delivered this shameful address were either the
early settlers themselves, or sons of the noble
pioneers, or at least their representatives, and
they knew and felt the fallacy of his assertions.
We will not pursue the subject of the message
throughout, only to mention the advice the
Governor gives after recommending the passage
of the marriage law, which is embodied in the
new Edmunds Bill. He says: "I recommend the
enactment of laws against polygamy, bigamy and
unlawful cohabitation commensurate with the law
of Congress, as interpreted by the Supreme Court
of the United States."
	To some extent Congress might be pardoned for
enacting such laws, for they do not understand
the true condition of the people here, and are
actuated by popular prejudice, and lured on by a
man recognized as an astute and influential politi-
cian. They act blindly, and do not care to enquire
far into a question which concerns themselves
little while they have other measures nearer their
own interests to adopt; but the idea that our own
representatives would attempt the enactment of
such laws is absurd and scarcely deserves a
thought.
	What measures the present legislature may
adopt is, of course, unknown, but we feel assured
they will be such as will best aid and benefit the
people. For a long time the parties framing and
enacting these laws against Utah have declared
that they did so in defense of the "poor, down-
trodden women of Mormondom," that they wished
to loose our fetters and restore to us the rights
that we hold to be every woman's due. As the
voice of the women of Utah, the EXPONENT de-
clares, we are neither poor, down-trodden, fettered
nor wronged, but on the contrary, rich in the
happiness and peace of our homes, upheld and
honored in every way, as wives and mothers
should be, we have no fetters, save the golden
chains of affection, and are wronged only by our
enemies. 'Tis not the women of Utah who desire

[Column 2]
such legislation. Our cry has ever been, "We
are content; leave us alone." And now we be-
seech Congress and all who have had a hand in
framing and passing these laws against us to
pause and go no further, but retract the steps al-
ready taken, restore to us the liberty the Edmunds
law has taken away, and give us back from prison
and exile our husbands and our fathers.


