CRAWFORD'S GLEN.

	About eight miles (Irish miles, which are
almost longer than the English) from Bel-
fast, is the little village of Crawfordsburn. It
consists of a few houses of primitive architec-
tural style, built together along the road for
a distance of forty or fifty rods on one side
and the same length on the other, only the
homes of the goodfolk on the latter side are
more detached. Whatever changes occur in
the appearance of the village, which is named
from its proximity to one of the Crawford
estates, are so gradual as to provoke few ex-
clamations of surprise, though their rarity sub-
ject them to more than general scrutiny. I
should have said the village seems to take its
name from the Crawford's estate hard by; but
for some unaccountable reason, or rather, for
no reason whatever, the word "burn," which
follows the name Crawford, instead of convey-
ing the idea that it is Crawford's village, means
literally Crawford's stream or brook. A "burn"
is a small stream; and as one flows through the
estate it has been given the name of the family.
The presumption is that the few cottages
which now claim a postoffice, growing up in
the vicinity of the "burn," have gradually ap-
propriated, or been accorded, the name of the
sweet little brook that winds its way through


[Column 2]

the Crawford estate until its complaining
waters mingle with those of the ocean about a
mile distant. The village has a wide reputa-
tion for two reasons: It is on the estate of the
Earl of Dufferin, now Viceroy of India, and
it has taken the name of Sherman Crawford,
a man whose broad and liberal, yet conserva-
tive views regarding the policy that should be
pursued toward his native land, were far riper
than the times in which he lived. If his shade
is alive to the events now transpiring in the
"Green Isle of the Ocean," he may enjoy the
consciousness of knowing how largely instru-
mental he has been in contributing to whatever
of recent liberality the English government
has accorded his countrymen. He is really
the father of "The Tenants' Rights Act," whose
beneficial effects were not known until some
years after his body had been laid beneath the
green sod. The village has a local reputation
for three reasons: It is near the shore of the
Belfast Lough, reputed to rival the beauty of
Lake Geneva, and is the center of some of the
most charming country in the north of Ireland;
it has one of the neatest, cleanest and cosiest
little inns in the three kingdoms; and lastly, it
nestles on the verge of a glen whose beauty,
once seen, is never to be forgotten. It is this
glen—the Glen of Crawfordsburn—that gives
to the village such fame as it may enjoy, this
that attracts the tourist, and, during summer,
makes it the scene of visitation by hundreds
in search of natural beauty or a day's peace-
able recreation.
	Though I have seen it times without number,
I well remember the first walk I took through
its winding length since the mystery of time
effaced the more acute recollections which child-
hood gives to all. A lingering sense of some-
thing once known, not unlike the sensation one
has when his feelings rather than his mind
seem to recall a dream so fully forgotten that
even the dim outlines no longer remain—an
indefinite, undefinable consciousness of forgot-
ten pleasures—floated through the mind, but
left little, if anything, to which one could pin
even the thread of a recollection. As morning
dawned the murmur of waters falling close by,
was the first of many indistinct sensations that
confusedly passed through my half-waking
dreams. I saw myself long years ago stand-
ing beside a waterfall heaped about with an
abundance of richest green and the sounds
that pleasantly disturbed [--] [---]t seemed to
possess a strange, a fascinating naturalness. I
could also see the half-threatening yet kindly
glance of one whose injunctions I had dis-
obeyed by wandering from a given spot; still,
all was vague and uncertain. When half-way
down the Glen a strong tide of recollection
sweeps o'er the heart. The ocean breeze
freighted with the odor of sea-weed and sub-
dued by the mild breath of a tardy spring,
wafted the wind over the gulf of intervening
years, and in a moment all became strangely
familiar. I had inhaled every breeze from
Yew York to England, drank in the gales
along the coast of Scotland, and scented every
zephyr from the land of thistles and heather to
that of the Shamrock and St. Patrick, for that
peculiar odor of land and wave which lingered
in my mind like the perfume of a delicious
flower recalled strongly after long years, and
had never found it until now.
	It was a spring day, but so early, or rather,
spring was so late, that no tree had yet begun
to put forth its leaves. A yellowish cast in the


[Column 3]

brown of the grass foretold a rising green, the
long, oval leaf of the laurel, which yields its
place only when forced to make room for the
new ones that annually succeed it, already
strewed the ground. From under the thick
covering of fast decaying foliage the green
stems of a wild flower were beginning timidly
to appear; but of the prevailing green which
tells that spring is truly present, there was
barely a trace.  Still, it was beautiful. The
monotony of death was relieved by the green
of the ivy which, from the ground far up,
closely encircled the trunks of noble trees,
whose denuded branches stood out skeleton-like,
clearly dark against the blue sky. There was
an abundance of moss. There always is, but
it is never so beautiful as in winter. I have
watched the tender leaf come to full growth,
seen the fair flowers of spring yield to the
deeper and richer bloom of summer, these, in
turn, succeeded by the brown tints and fewer
blossoms of autumn, and then all covered with
the snows of winter, and never gazed upon it
when it was not a scene of surpassing loveli-
ness.
	Above the village road, about a stone's
throw, is a dam, which feeds an old flour mill
that has lately been converted into one for
sawing up trees which have ceased to be useful
for purposes ornamental and to give place to
those of younger growth. Ten second's walk
takes one into the Glen, having passed through
an old gateway, on the right hand side of
which is a solid stone wall. Through this wall
a branch of escalonia, or wild fuchsia, as thick
as a man's wrist, has forced its way, from
which early in June, and on even into Novem-
ber, a profusion of coral pendants with pur-
ple centres, hung within easy reach. I have
seen the thin arms of the wild rose, whose
flowers were of spotless white, run through
and through the escalonia branches and min-
gle its white bloom with the red and purple of
its rival of the wall, until it stole so much of
that rival's coral hue as cast a blush of inef-
able tenderness over its own petals. The mill,
while not ruined, is, nevertheless, partially
moss grow and ivy hidden. As soon as it has
been passed is one fairly in the Glen. Three
waterfalls are near it. A small one almost at
its edge, a larger one some thirty feet farther
down, and one, in size between these two, still
lower. Between the second and third falls, a
[-]astic bridge spans the stream, which is reached
by a steep bridle path. Directly below the
last fall is a fair plat of green (in the midst of
which stands a tall and graceful tree) formed
by the burn which sweeps to the right in a
pleasing curve. At the point where the stream
again turns to the left is a rustic seat, o'erhung
with laurel and beech, from which the three falls,
the rustic bridge, the dense undergrowth of
laurel, hazle, boxwood and beech, the fringing
of grass, the bloom of the milk white and pink
thorne and the nobler trees, present a picture
to the eye such as is never to be forgotten.
The little stream, dashed into foam, pours
headlong over each successive fall, half-cover-
ing the jutting rocks, (now deeply bedded with
waves) which interrupt its flow, and then glides
away as though ashamed, of the tumult it had
created. Many an artist have I seen endeav-
oring to pen down its changing beauties and
reproduce them on the faulty canvas. For
the greater part of the Glen two paths lead
down one on the right hand side of the stream,
and one on the left. When summer comes,with


[Column 1]
﻿its wealth of foliage, its shade is fascinating;
and as the branches of the varied trees sway
to the wind, delightful glimpses of grass fields
o’er which the sun pours its generous radiance,
fill the expectant with inexpressible pleasure.
The stream winds quietly about after it leaves
the falls. A little over half way down, a
superb railroad viaduct, which spans the Glen,
seems, with its fine arches through which one
passes, to add to its romantic charm, if any
evidence of civilization can do so; and from
this point the Glen widens out, and there are
fine prospects of wooded hills on one side, and
of grass plot softer than any carpet on the
other. The hills to the left, the top of which
could not be seen before because of the density
of the foliage, are low and rolling and de-
crease as one follows the stream. A broad
gravel road begins at the confluence of the
Glen “burn” with another stream a short dis-
tance below the viaduct. Still following the
stream a quarter of a mile down the Glen,
paths which by this time had converged into
one, and the graveled road also meet, and
winding around a low knoll, the ocean bursts
into full view. And it is a magnificent sight
—from the secluded, half-brine sensation which
the Glen gives to the broad and prodigal sweep
of the ocean, upon whose bosom the eye be-
holds trading vessels of all burdens, and in
summer, the tiny white sails of innumerable
yachts. To the right, on a clear day, the low
hills of Scotland are visible, and rising an
adjacent knoll, the summit of many a noble
hill, crowned with a profusion of trees meets
the gladdened eye. Across the Lough, or 
bay, to the left, one gazes upon well filled
fields, (divided by countles hedges) and white
cots and smoke from flying trains, while Car-
rick-fergus, of historical notoriety as having
been the scene of coronation of a Scotchman
as King of Ireland in the 13th century, is also
easily distinguishable. To dwell upon the
endless variety of magnificent scenes which
this wide prospect affords, in the hope of pic-
turing them, were vain; or even to tell of the
never ending colors of the wave (variable and
uncertain as its bosom) as it changes hue with
every breath of wind that ruffles its surface.
But it produces an exultant sense that only
one can know who has felt the conscious gran-
deur which boundless vision inspires—such as a
prospect spread out before him who has stood
upon the summit of some lofty peak in the
Rocky Mountains, or upon a rival chain, and
viewed the boundless range of valley and
mountain, that rolled away from lris feet in
never ending succession, till the eye was
wearied with its limitless flight. I do not
recollect that it ever presented the same ap-
pearance twice. The clear or beclouded heaven,
the varying tide, the presence of numerous or
the total absence of boats or vessels, the pe-
culiarities of light and shadow upon distant
hills, showing on one, in the broad sunlight,
every house and hedg across the Lough, while
the rest were practically indistinguishable; the
striking changes in color which presented them-
selves to view, nay even the indefinite number
of huts of green which lay in fields upon the
broad bosom of the ocean, seemed capable of
interminable variation, though, of course, the
spot and its surroundings were ever the same
features.
	All through the Glen are great numbers of
flowering shrubs. Red, white and pink rho-
dodendrons are among the first, following
which are the king yellow flower of the box
with a perfume so like that of its tender leaves.
The haw or thorne, and the laurel, and the
sloe, their seasons make the air redolent with
delightful odors; while the “meadow sweet”
freights the air with a perfume as subtle as it is
delicate. Amid the green boughs, twittering
birds keep up a ceaseless chatter, interrupted
occasionally by the deep cawing of the

[Column 2]
crow, which echoes through the stillness.
Rustic seats are placed at all points from
which a fine view is to be had; while
the wealth of mosses on the decaying
branches and roots of living trees. The
aspiring ivy hiding in its density, the trunks
of trees as far up as the eye can follow, the
rank growth of ferns, the intermingling of
innumerable wild flowers, beginning in the
spring with the modest primrose and the un-
yielding daisy followed through the season by
the dandelion, Mayflowers, buttercup, peri-
winkle, London pride, and so on, force them-
selves upon attention. One of the choicest
bits is a ruined house in the Glen. It is very
dark and literally buried with moss and ivy.
It is called the “fog” house because of the
depth of moss which hides it, and “fog” is
a name given here to a particular kind of
moss. One is surprised by the great number 
of secluded nooks which everywhere seem to
invite the lover—and lovers are as often sur-
prised by the sudden and unfortunate appear-
ance of others who, like themselves, are in
search of some sequestered spot "for whisper-
ing lovers made.” Many are the dark pools
fringed with long grass and longer ferns and
ivy where the angler looks in vain for trout.
The fallen tree that spans the “burn,” the half
hidden way that leads beneath the overhanging
holly and through tangled laurel and sally and
thorne, to spots of exquisite loveliness, the
miniature precipices, the subdued song of the
ocean mingled with the sobbing of the wind
through umbrageous trees, and the stillness that
one can almost feel, are known to all who love
nature and who have sought her where she
broods in solitary loveliness. Here mid these

	"Green winding walks and shady pathways sweet,"

which my infant steps and maturer feet have
trod, could I dwell forever. Whenever sun-
light shall flood upon wave, or wood-crowned
hill; whenever the songs of birds shall echo
through all-prevailing stillness; when there is
shade and green grass, and moss covered rocks;
when the fragrance of flowers shall float upon
the breeze; when the sound of falling water
begets that sense of ease that sinks deep into
the heart; when the unmurmuring stream runs
darkling awry beneath grass and fern and
overhanging tree; whenever moonlight, flood-
ing the night air, throws its weird and roman-
tic shadows across the deserted walk, or glints
through the dense foliage; when the joyous
songs of happy hearts fill the eventide with
love and rapture, or the silent whisperings of
fond lips breathes tales of love.

"Beneath the milk-white thorne that scents the evening
	gale,"

at such an hour this Glen, and its hallowed
charms, will fill the mind with such bright
scenes as time cannot dim; and bring a sense
of joy and of rest where darkest clouds o’er-
cast life's sky. At such an hour too, will well
up from the heart that old, homely, tender
verse:
	“Could I but feel as with thee I felt,
		Long, long ago; long, long ago;
	Where at thy side in the moonlight I knelt.
		Long, long ago; sweet long ago;
	“Could I meet thee at eve by the stream in the Glen,
		And drink of thine eyes loving sunshine again,
	I might tell thee such tales as I told to thee then,
		Long, long ago; long long ago."
