		REFLECTIONS.

	At this merry holiday time one's mind
naturally glides back over the past years of life,
and every holiday seemed to be lived again.
Even as such days are joyous, we feel the
same lightheartness as of yore, and if we have
known sorrow or bitter experience, how vivid-
ly it is recalled at this time, and we live it all
over again, though perhaps the years have
softened it and made our burdens lighter.

[Column 2]
How we see again the dear ones moving about
in childhood's home, ministering to our every
want. But the sacred object that memory
dwells on is the sainted mother, that did so
much to make her children happy and caused
their little hearts to beat as contentedly as if
their simple presents came through the wealth
of a million.
	O, how vividly do I remember my own
darling mother, and the last Christmas she was
with us in the dear old home! I gaze again
into her great dark eyes, beaming with loving
tenderness; in fancy I watch her slender, pale
hands crimp the dainty ruffles so spotless and
white, even as her own pure soul, that was so
soon to take its flight. Little did I dream
that when the early blossoms came in the spring
that she, who was the life and light of the
home, would be quietly resting in the cold and
silent grave. Yet, we feel her gentle spirit
did watch over her loved ones, and still smiles
from above, when we are treading the humble
path she trod; but such is life, and mothers so
well beloved are ever passing away, thus leav-
ing hearts near crushed with despair. Yet,
through the help of a kind, loving Father, we
struggle on, still hoping to climb the dizzy
heights in safety, no matter how rough the way
may be.
	Since we have become mothers, we will own
the pleasure it gives us to be able to help good
Santa to fill the little stockings hung up for
his particular use, and how proud we are when
we must borrow grandma's stocking because
there is none other that will hold enough for
the last new baby. Even as we rejoice over
this, we mourn over the empty space where
one hung on the former Christmas, but is now
like its dear little owner, laid away to rest.
But blessed assurance, we know that the spirits
of our babes are in God's own care, there to
wait till He calls forth the holy dust from the
lone hillside to unite with the immortal part
on the resurrection morn. As the tears fall
while we think of the treasures we have laid
up in heaven, we make new resolutions to strive
still harder to make all the dear ones happy
who depend in a great measure on us for their
earthly joys. On this day, that is celebrated
as the one that gave our Redeemer birth,
should we not make every exertion to render
all hearts light as far as our influence will
reach, and that is much farther than many of
of us realize.
	We know that all, old or young, feel a new
thrill of delight when they are remembered, if
only by one loving friend and some simple
token of remembrance. A few sweet words of
encouragement are often more to be prized
than costly presents wrung from selfish hearts
that only give for praise.
	We must all remember our faithful brethren
now lying in prison because they will not ig-
nore the sacred covenants they have made and
turn traitors to the cause of God. We will
plead, and not in vain, that our Heavenly
Father will comfort and bless them, also their
helpless wives and innocent children, from
whose arms they have been torn. Our hearts
will go out in sympathy to the exile wandering
on a foreign shore, and our soul will swell
with mighty gratitude to an Allwise Parent
that our noble Presidency are still preserved.
While we remember all these honored ones, our
hearts yearn with an unsatisfied longing for
the society of our near and immediate friends
—the members of our own family. Families
are broken up and the inmates scattered afar,
because of circumstances, over which we have
no control, but chiefly through the merciless
raid forced upon an innocent people for serv-
ing God the way they believe will win them a
salvation and a crown in His kingdom. But
though Satan howl he cannot frighten the
faithful; it will rather make more strong their
determination to keep the commands of God,


while they pity and scorn the wretches who
are seeking to destroy them.
	We have bid good bye to the dear old year
—what may the new one bring? Alas, we can-
not tell; yet we are certain all will be well
with the just and the true, and to each dear
sister and brother that we have met and
learned to love, and to every Latter-day Saint,
especially the sick and poor, the lonely and
desolate, we wish a happy new year.
				MARY S. BURNHAM.
	Burnham, 1886.


