	MOTHERS! MOTHERS! MOTHERS!

	With what grief and sorrow does one witness
the sad spectacle involved in the downward
course of a young person. When we see a
beautifully constructed tabernacle, inhabited
by a bright, promising spirit, take the first
fatal step that leads to ruin, then all uncon-
sciously arises in our mind these questions:
Where is the fond, loving mother—she who
has already traversed a great distance on the
highway of life, having a knowledge of the
whereabouts of the pitfalls, temptations and
snares that await the unwary footsteps of the
young? Is she neglecting one of the grandest
duties which she, as a mother in Israel, has to
perform, to attend to more trifling matters? Is
her mind too much absorbed in the fashions of
to-day? Is she so much engrossed in the out-
ward adornment of the body, that she does not
take heed of her darling's faltering footsteps?
Alas! I am afraid that a great many of us
neglect the sterner and more important duties
of life to attend to more trifling matters.
	With what sorrow we look upon what was
once a bright, lovely being, marred, debased
and ruined, from following after vain and
hollow fashion. Mothers, do you think that
by teaching your little ones while they are
young, lessons of false pride you will thereby
earn an exalted kingdom in the heavens above?
Are you not unconsciously losing your own
place by setting the example and allowing your
children to become slaves to the above men-
tioned vice? Walking the streets in the city,
one often becomes grieved at witnessing the
haughty actions of some of the sweet little
children of Zion—babies in years, but quite
old in actions. They have already assumed a
walk and a toss of the head to show their great
importance—not becoming to older people,
much less to little ones. With some it would
seem to matter little how reduced in circum-
stances their parents, they still must be dressed
in the height of fashion, regardless of how ob-
noxious or abhorrent it is. There are some
fathers who are getting meagre salaries whose
children dress far more fashionably than the
children of others who are worth their thou-
sands.
	Now, are these things what our religion
teaches us? Does this bring us nearer to God?
Does this teach our children to be meek and
humble? Does taking time for such worldly
frivolity edify us, or cause our minds to ex-
pand? I think not. Then, let us teach our
children, and to do so, let us set the example
ourselves—to spend every precious spare mo-
ment in improvement, in gaining all possible
instruction in regard to our religion, and to
live in such a way that we may all gain an ex-
alted place in the kingdom of God.
	We should seek to make our homes as at-
tractive as lies in our power, by furnishing
them with plenty of good, useful books, house
plants and all the little articles lying within
the reach of all of us, and which, under
proper influences, give a chance for serious
thought and useful reflection, which they
might not have obtained. They will thereby
have inculcated in their minds a dislike for


[Column 2]
all things impure, among them, a dislike for
low, trashy reading, which but corrodes and
corrupts the mind. I think if every mother
will watch over the infant years of her darlings
there will not be many who will not attain to a
life of nobility and usefulness. Few will be
found walking the streets at night, or with a
desire to. Few will be ashamed to be called
too religious, but they will grow up sons and
daughters of Zion to be proud of.
	Mothers, if you wish your sweet ones to
graduate in the school of scandal and vice,
teach them to love frivolity and fashion, and
let them please themselves in every idle vanity
while young; but if you wish them to graduate
in the school of virtue and truth, teach them
obedience while young, to shun all evil, and to
obey through love, not through fear, and they
will pass with full honor.			IDA.


