MOTHERS.

	No word arouses such tender feelings as
that of mother. Strong men are not ashamed
to be softened by it, and aged women mention
it with loving reverence—grandmothers as
they are in their own lives, going back to the
time when they were children, half wondering,
half-adoring at her knee, and young girls to
whom the mother was the guiding star of life,
and her precepts, those perfect utterances by
which they were ruled. Wild boys, whom
neither parental authority nor fear of the
master's cane can reduce to order, are led
without trouble by the mother's silken rein of
influence; youths who have flung off the res-
traints of religion, the fetters of morality,
and have given themselves to idleness and vice,
can be brought back in mid-career, awakened
out of their perilous sleep in Armida's garden,
and restored to their better selves by the


[Column 1]
loving words and tearful prayer of the
mother.
	Even the most hardened sinner has one pure
spot left in his heart—that wherein his mother's
memory is enshrined; and the cynic, who des-
pises all women alike, excepts her from the
general censure. No influence is so strong and
so lasting as that which the mother has over
her children, no shame so great as that which
she brings upon them when she fails in her
own life and covers her name and theirs with
disgrace. To those restless feminine souls who
cry out for more power, more authority, more
expansion in society, we would say, "You have
the largest share of all, you who are mothers
with children to guide, to educate, and to
mold." For strange as it may seem, there are
certain even of these mothers who have to be
reminded of their privileges and their duties.
Among the new race of women that has
sprung up of late years are some to whom this
grand and gracious word brings no sense of
honor—rather who look on its duties as re-
straints, and its privileges as not worth the
personal trouble involved in their mainten-
ance.
	But, if there are women like these, there
are others the elemental quality of whose
character is motherhood—that is sympathy,
unselfishness, the power of protection, the
spirit of wholesome counsel. Just as some
women are bound to be mere dolls, toys and
playthings of men and society; pretty puppets
in gala dresses, hung about with jewels and
seated on velvet cushions; creatures for show
and ornament, not for use nor yet for work;
creatures that have to be pampered and in-
dulged and that are as helpless as the infants
to which they give birth, but of which they
alone, of all the mothers in the animal world,
can take no care—so are there women who are
born mothers; women consecrated by nature to
that holiest place and function, even if for-
tune and history rule their lives otherwise. It
is a mistake to suppose that the maternal in-
stinct is universal on the one hand, or that it
is developed only by personal experience on
the other. Even women who are mothers may
be found wholly destitute of it, with not a ray
of natural feeling for their offspring; and some
who are neither wives nor mothers in fact are
all the latter in feeling. These are women
who are the chosen friends of both sexes and
all ages. To them flock all who have troubles
—and who has not?—sure of a patient hearing
and that sweet sympathy which of itself heals
the wounds laid bare to its touch. If anyone
is in difficulty, it is the motherly woman who
is asked to give her help—and seldom asked in
vain; for motherliness is the cruse of oil
wherein time and faculty never never run dry,
and the more that is given the more that re-
mains behind to give. Passion-tossed men go
to her for wise advice and calming counsel;
erring women go to her for pity for the past
and strength for the future; little children
carry to her their childish grief, their innocent
sins, their wants and fears, and perplexities;
she gives to all what they seek, richly, abun-
dantly, and of those who respect her there is no
one who fears.
	Pure herself, she can pity the backslidings of
the frail, and aid in the upward path the totter-
ing feet of the weak. Living apart from the
world of dark temptation, she has the sublime
mercy which comes from purity and love com-
bined for those who lie on her breast stained
and despairing. Firm in her own life, she can
accept those who are neither; knowing no tor-
tures of remorse, she can feel for those who
suffer; and she is a mother to the guilty as well
as to the sorrowful. Beautiful as nature, pro-
tective as our country—both of which we also
call mother—she is the refuge of all who want
and are weary; and only the flippant, the shal-

[Column 2]
low, the insincere, and the vain find her hands
closed and her heart shut.
	And in a smaller sphere than this—in the
quiet home, where is no overwhelming tragedy
of crime, no wide-straying aberrations to con-
done, how priceless the service rendered by
the mother to her people! If some calamity
of loss or death troubles the family, she is the
one to console the rest; and, while leaving the
heaviest portion for herself, finds means to
lighten the burden of each in turn. If sick-
ness is about who but she is head nurse, even
if she herself is weak, and more needing care
than rightly capable of giving it? and to her is
owing more than half the honor of the re-
covery. If happiness is on hand, her smile
seems to lend a brighter ray to the sunshine, to
add some notes of sweeter harmony to the
melodies afloat. They all feel that without the
mother nothing would be so beautiful, nothing
so happy or well-ordered as it is now. It is
she who seems to give the point, the salt; she
who is the centre of the circle. Motherless,
the young girl's love loses something of its
blessedness; and Fame sounds but a tremulous
blast through her silver trumpet if there is no
mother to take pride in the success of her
son.
	The home which her presence once rendered
blessed, her loss has now left desolate forever;
and families, to which she has the central tie
that kept them together, fall asunder when
she has gone. Those who have never known a
mother feel for all their lives that they have
lost a good which nothing can make up to
them. However desolate the motherless child-
hood may be, the after maturity also suffers;
and there is always the sense of having had
less than others, of having lost more than
others. The thousand petty sorrows and perse-
cutions of childhood, which a mother's presence
would have prevented, tinge the color of the
after thoughts; and the feeling of desolation
that was born then continues, with more or
less intensity, to the end. A stepmother, if
she is perfect of her kind, does not answer the
same purpose. "My own mother" has a ring
in its tender tones that can not be transferred;
and even the heartiest "she is like my own
mother," does not fake the place of the yearn-
ing which all the early orphaned have, to have
known the true mother, and to have a distinct
remembrance of her personality. It is the one
insatiable desire of children to know all about
the dead mother; and no saint receives more 
fervent worship, or comes to be more of a per-
fected ideal, than she who died in her child's 
infancy, leaving behind her a memory of per-
petual youth and divine beauty, of pathetic
interest crystallized forever by the fact of her
premature loss. The dead mother is, in fact,
the saint to the imagination of her children,
and no treason would be considered so gross
as that which should endeavor to show her as
she was—faulty, like the rest of us, and per-
haps more blessed in the early death than she
would have been in the longer living. Those
brief visits of hers to the nursery, if remem-
bered at all, are remembered as the dominant
circumstances of the childish life. It would
be useless, and as cruel as useless, to say how
brief they were, how unsatisfactory and un-
substantial.


