		    MANASSA, COLORADO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with pleasure that I once more attempt
to write to your valuable paper, that you may
know that the Saints in this land are yet alive
and striving to serve God.
	Our quarterly conference is just over, and
we have had a truly enjoyable time together,
and received words of counsel and encourage-
ment of priceless worth to every Latter-day
Saint. We were pleased to see our brethren
from Salt Lake, and also some of the young
missionaries who were on their return home
from the Southern States, but came this way
to see the country and attend conference.
	When I look upon the bright, intelligent,
honest faces of those young Utah boys, as we
see them from time to time returning from
their missions, I often think that such boys
can nowhere else be found. They are full of
life, youth and vigor, and yet they are devoted
to their religion and true to their God, brave
enough to face a wicked world and warn them
of the great judgements that await them. While
I was among the Latter-day Saints, and until
I saw fit to take up my abode in this land, I
could not fully realize what a priceless bless-
ing it is to be reared among the people of God,
with those sacred principles born and bred in
us until they are a part of our very natures.
It is like planting good seeds upon a pure, rich,
new soil, where no noxious weeds have ever
grown. But it is not so with those who em-
brace the Gospel in the world; most of them
have a mind full of false ideas and superstitions
to overcome, which have to be rooted out, and
it takes a lifetime in most instances to get rid
of them. Here we are at liberty to plant
good seeds in the young and tender minds of
our children, which will grow and yield an
abundance of good fruit.
	Our Primary Association of Manassa is in
a flourishing condition. Both officers and
members seem to be alive to their duties. Our
Sabbath School and day schools are in a
thriving condition, and many of the older
people are taking great interest with the child-
ren. Our young people's associations and Re-
lief Society are also doing well, and we antici-
pate a pleasant time this winter. The health
of the people is good—much better than it

[Column 2]
was last year. The country is building up
very fast, and we have been blessed with good
crops and gardens. The Latter-day Saints are
well satisfied with the prospects here, and are
striving to make comfortable homes in the
beautiful valley where we are located. We
believe that the hand of God is in our settling
here, and He has thus far blessed us, and we
know that He will continue to bless us if we
strive to do His will.
	Ever wishing success to you and all those
who are engaged in this good work, I remain,
			Your co-worker,
