[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: Editorial Notes | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The sisters of the General Board and
other sisters have been busy of late visiting
conferences. President M. Isabella Horne
and Sister Harriet Ellis attended the Utah
Stake Relief Society; President Jane S.
Richards attended Morgan Stake; Sisters
Elizabeth J. Stevenson and L. L. Greene
Richards, Emery Stake; President Susan
Grant and Sister Mary E. Irvine, Uintah
Stake.
	Miss Susan B Anthony is reported to be
slowly but surely recovering from the col-
lapse which prostrated her early in Septem-
ber last. She is now able to ride or walk
out a little every day. Women everywhere
will rejoice that she has been spared to
direct and advise those who love her so in-
tensely and who look up to her for wisdom
to guide the women’s movement for higher
advancement.
	The women of the L. D. S. Church every
where will, we are sure, be delighted to
know that they are to have a Woman’s
Temple or building in the not far distant
future. The presidency of the Church
have very generously given a very valuable
piece of land on the block east of the mag-
nificent Temple in this city, facing west at
the south corner of Temple avenue. The
structure when completed will, the sisters
may rest assured, be a handsome and com-
modious edifice.
	The women of Utah are honored in the
appointment of Mrs. Emma J. McVicker
for Superintendent of Public Instruction to
fill the unexpired term left vacant by the
demise of Dr. John R. Park. Mrs. Mc-
Vicker is an honor to the women of the
State, thoroughly qualified for the position,
<a>nd an all around woman of affairs. She has

[Column 2]
the hearty congratulations of the EXPONEN[-]
and a sincere wish from the editor for th[-]
future success of her educational ideals fo[-]
the State of Utah.
	The Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women Will be held at
Minneapolis, Minnesota, on November 13,
14, and 15, 1900. By invitation of the
Women’s Council of Minneapolis the pub-
lic meetings will be held in the First
Unitarian Church at 8th and Mary Streets.
Other meetings in church parlors or in
Hotel Headquarters, as usual. The
National organizations will be represented by
the president or proxy and one delegate or
alternate. Patrons and members of com-
mittees are entitled to be present and par-
ticipate in proceedings.
	The At Home given by Mrs. F. S., Mrs.
F. Dewey and Mrs. Joseph T. Richards at
the Richards residence on A. Street,
Saturday afternoon, October 20, was a bril-
liant affair. Three hundred guests were
invited and a large number attended during
the hours from 2 to 6 o’clock. The dec-
orations were on a very magnificent scale,
the front parlor in green and white chrysan-
themums, with vines and ferns, and very
artistic, the rear parlor in red and the dining
room in yellow and white. The ladies of
the house were assisted in receiving by Mrs.
J. T. Houx, of San Francisco, Mrs. C. S.
Varian, Mrs. A. G. Ewing, Mrs. Ed. Ferry
Mrs. Flank Jennings and Mrs. W. W.
Riter. The ladies who assisted in serving
refreshments were Mrs. Fred W. Scarff,
Misses Mary Young, Edyth Ellerbeck and
Ida Noble. The gowns of the young ladies
corresponded with the colors used in dec-
orating the dining hall.
	The General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints convened
October 5, 6, and 7, in the Tabernacle in Salt
Lake City, and was opened by President
Lorenzo Snow, who delivered an eloquent
and inspiritional sermon, touching upon
many important matters of historical inter-
est and also such as relate to the present day
and the lives of the Latter-day Saints. His
remarks concerning the building up of
Jackson County were in line with the spirit
of the times and his words altogether were
pregnant with significance of the work of
the Lord in the “last days,” or the fulness
of times, and of the position he occupies as
the head of the Church. President Snow,
although in his 87th year, speaks as forcibly
as ever and can be heard distinctly in that
large building. The President is a very
remarkable man and a grand representative
of his Puritan ancestry.
	The Utah State Fair, held at the Expo-
sition building and grounds, in this city,
was opened October 2, 1900, by Secretary
James A. Hammond, in the absence of the
Governor with an immense audience. The
Fair lasted through the week and was
thronged most of the time. The weather
for one or two days was rather unfavorable,
yet the showing of attendance was good.
The cattle, horses and poultry surpassed
other years, and the mineral exhibits were
fine, and also in some other departments
the excellence of workmanship and of
articles excelled previous exhibits; but in
art, education and textile industries the
exhibit was not what it should have been
to show the material progress that has been
made in these special lines. No pains was
spared, however, on the part of the presi


[Column 1]
dent, Bishop J. R. Winder, and the Board
of Directors, to urge the people to bring
forward exhibits, and the able and efficient
secretary, S. W. Sears, worked during the
year with an indomitable will and persever-
ance to make the State Fair an unparalleled
success for Utah.
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Aseembly Hall, in
this city, Thursday, October 4, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., president Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Meeting opened by
singing “Now let us rejoice,” etc., led by
Prof. C. J. Thomas, Mrs. Ida Daynes
Cannon accompaniest. Prayer by President
M. Isabella Horne. Singing, “Let us pray
gladly pray,” etc. Roll called, responses
from seventeen presidents, eleven counselors
and seven by other representatives.
Minutes of the April conference read and
approved.
	Miss Lutie Grant sang a solo very sweet-
ly, title, “One Sweetly Solemn Thought.”
	President Young made an address of wel-
come and of greeting to the sisters in her
usual motherly way. She rejoiced to see
their faces and appreciated their presence.
Spoke upon the sacrament and urged those
present not to neglect the privilege of par-
taking of the sacrament, and to put aside
all unkindness and they would receive the
blessing promised. Sister Zina spoke
beautifully upon humility and faith and
reverence for those who bore the holy
priesthood. She remarked that we none of
us know what the Lord has in store for us,
therefore we should be united and humble,
that we may be prepared for all the events
of Providence, for we must be tried in all
things.
	President Mary L. Woolf, Alberta Stake,
Canada, was glad to see the faces of the
aged sisters, those whom she had known
and had heard of all her life. She realized
they were growing old and feeble and
needed the support and help of younger
women. Sister Woolf felt we as sisters en-
joyed the greatest blessings of any women
on the earth, in connection with Mother
Eve, in bearing the souls of men, though
we feel very weak sometimes. Spoke of
her twelve children and thought tho’ we
might have trials and afflictions, we should
bear them heroically and ask for strength to
overcome. Referred to herself and counsel-
ors visiting the Stake, accompanied by
Sister Card, who was now an Aid in the
society. They felt very happy in visiting
from place to place, and encouraging and
stimulating the sisters to good works and
renewed efforts in the path of duty.
Thought we should teach our children the
benefit of prayer and the use of the conse-
crated oil in administering to the sick; re-
lated some instances concerning this in her
own family. When the Savior was on the
earth He said to Peter “Knowest thou me ?”
And when Peter replied, Jesus said to him,
“Then feed my sheep.” The speaker felt
we should strive to carry out this saying of
the Savior by giving spiritual food to the
people and to the children.
	Counselor Sarah Jane Hostetter, of San
Luis Stake, Colorado, said their Stake was
more prosperous than it had ever been
heretofore. The sisters were erecting two
new buildings. In their Stake Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp had been teaching obstetrics and
nursing in Sanford, and she had done a
good work there. They enjoyed the

[Column 2]
EXPONENT and read from it in their meet-
ings. She felt they were improving. She
rejoiced to be in Utah and in visiting this
city, it was her first visit here. She had
only been twelve years in the Church, and
she wanted to learn concerning the work
and to retain all she could.
	Mary N. James, the representative from
San Juan Stake, said the sisters in Bluff
were going to build in the spring. They
had a good share of material on hand, were
going to build of stone, they appreciated the
EXPONENT, used it in their meetings. She
referred to the Navajo blanket she had
brought with her to send by Sister Emily
S. Richards to the National Suffrage Baazar
in New York City. It was a very elegant
one made entirely by a Navajo woman in
their settlement.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St George
Stake, Utah, said she had visited all the
branches in the Stake except the White
River settlement, “which we intend visiting
as soon as I return home. We have some
wheat on hand and are helping in many
directions to build up the country. We
have been very successful this year in the
silk industry and we know that the words
of President Young are true in regard to
sericulture. It is an employment for our
children as well as the older people, and we
must teach habits of industry and economy
if we expect to be prospered in our efforts.”
	Sister Zina spoke a few words upon the
silk industry, urging the sisters to carry out
the counsel that had been given by Presi-
dent Brigham Young, and the Lord would
add His blessing to their efforts.
	Sister Caroline Stringam represented
Uintah Stake. In her remarks she referred
to a revelation of Joseph Smith, the prophet,
in the Doctrine and Covenants in regard to
those who have talents and hide them, and
realized that the Lord would call us to ac-
count for not making use of our opportunities
to do good. She spoke earnestly to the
young mothers upon the training of children
and gave some instances of how her own
methods had succeeded with young boys in
her own neighborhood. Felt that the souls
of these young men were precious in the
sight of the Lord. There were really no
poor to be cared for in that locality, but the
sick were properly attended to by the Relief
Society sisters.
	Congregation sang Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Professor C. J. Thomas.
	Afternoon session. Singing by the
Twentieth Ward Y. L. M. I. A. choir led,
by Mrs. Mary F. Kelly, Mrs. Ida Daynes
Cannon, accompaniest, “There Shall be
Showers of Blessings.” Prayer by Presi-
dent Thomas Ricks. Singing, “Some One
Will Meet at the Pearly Gates, Shall You ?
Shall I?”
	President M. I. Horne was the first
speaker. Her remarks were upon union
and faithfulness, the strict observing of the
Sabbath day, the partaking of the sacrament
in the right spirit, with clean hands and a
pure heart; and “we are laying the found-
ation for a great future hereafter. We
must pursue a course that will elevate
humanity. While we are doing this chari-
table work we must seek to benefit all that
are in need, but be wise and careful in our
judgment of all matters.”
	Sister Horne then explained about the
class in nursing, referred to what had been
done in the past by Dr. Roberts and the
good work she had accomplished. Prayed
the Lord to bless the sisters in their labors
and said many other good things.

[Column 3]
	President Sarah J. Cannon was delighted
to see so many of the Mothers in Israel.
Felt we had a great deal to do and we needed
wisdom and the Spirit of the Lord to aid us
at all times. She had felt very much blest in
her labors in the Relief Society. She had
been much interested in the minutes of our
last conference that were read in the morn-
ing session. We must teach our children
the Gospel, know where they are, do this
duty and not leave the others undone. Let us
do all our duties, pay our tithing and be
charitable. Sister Cannon remarked that
she had been acquainted with all the
prophets since the days of Joseph Smith and
knew of their divine mission and teachings.
	President B. W. Smith felt happy in
meeting with so many of our good sisters
and hoped the time would come when we
would have more, realized we were on the
increase. “We want the young women
and young girls. I was young myself, not
twenty, when I joined the Relief Society at
the first organization. We want to teach
our children to be honest, truthful and in-
dustrious, pay our tithing, keep the Sab-
bath day holy and have our children attend
meetings and partake of the sacrament.
And, sisters, let us keep out of debt, not be
using other people’s means. We want to
build a house for the Relief Society in this
city, bring our mites together and see what
we can do towards it. The Lord will bless
us in our undertakings if we perform every
duty.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff reported
the Granite Stake. They had fourteen or
fifteen branches, one new branch recently
organized. They had visited all around.
She was glad to have the opportunity to
testify to the work in which we are engaged.
“Let us be consistent Latter-day Saints,
keep the word of wisdom and do our Tem-
ple work. Liked to see the Temple full doing
the work for those behind the veil. Hoped
to be faithful and true in all things.
	Counselor Mary Bagley, Bear Lake Stake:
“As Sister Lindsay, our president, was not
well enough to attend this conference she
wished me to represent the Stake. Al-
though our president is seventy-seven years
old she made the trip around the county
this summer. The Lord has blest her in
many ways. She has presided now twenty-
one years and I feel blest that I am able to
travel around with her. There is no
greater blessing than to be Mothers in
Israel in the Relief Society.”
	Sister Lindsay knew Joseph Smith and
frequently bore testimony to his divine mis-
sion. “I pray the Lord to bless these aged
sisters who have been so valiant for the
truth.”
	Sister Emily S. Richards showed the
ladies the Navajo blanket which had been
sent from San Juan County, to be on ex-
hibition at the Woman Suffrage Bazaar in
New York City in December. She invited
the sisters to assist in the effort being made
by the Utah Woman’s Council, by giving
five cent donations, which would be grate-
fully received or any article suitable for
such a purpose that might be on sale in the
Bazaar to increase the fund. Also spoke of
the circular letter published in the Deseret
News October 3, and thought the young
ladies should encourage this undertaking.
	Sister Julina L. Smith spoke of our chil-
dren and their home training and habits.
Felt it important they should go to Sunday
School and attend meetings. Educate our
boys for missionaries and our girls to make
good wives and mothers. She had recently


[Column 1]
returned from a visit to Canada, and had
met there an English Lord and his wife
and party. Told us how punctual they
were in keeping an appointment they had
made with our people to meet some of our
folks and dine with them, even though they
had to ride and drive through a heavy rain
storm, both going and returning. His
Excellency remarked, “We made an ap-
pointment and we would not break it.”
Sister Smith felt the people were prospering
there and were serving the Lord. The
Relief Society, the Y. L. M. I. A. and the
Sunday School were all visited, and were
doing a good work. The vegetables raised
up there were very large and excellent, it
was easy to raise them. The people had
also started fruit trees. The Saints were
enjoying their religion and trying to make
an honest living; and meantime they are
making themselves comfortable homes as
circumstances will permit. They are not
without recreation, such as dancing parties
and simple amusements.
	President Mary A. Call, of Bannock
Stake, stated that the Stake had only been
organized a little over two years, and they
felt the need of the visiting sisters to give
counsel and encouragement. They had
saved some grain and had some granaries.
They had found it a good plan to line the
granaries with tin. Dr Ellis R. Shipp had
been there and taught a class in obstetrics and
nursing. She felt these classes were needed
in Zion. Spoke encouragingly upon the
progress women were making everwhere.
	President Louisa B. Benson, Oneida
Stake, said they had been called upon to
donate a hundred dollars towards fixing up
the Academy and they had complied. She
was sure they would do their share in any
undertaking to benefit the society. Spoke
very kindly of the retiring president, and
said that they valued her services and would
like to have the benefit of her counsel and
experience.
	Star Valley Stake was represented by
Annie K. Kennington, who said: “We have
a new president, Sister Alice J. Call, our
former president having moved away. We
have not a large Stake, we visit every six
months. We can’t boast much of our
grain, ours is a stock raising country. We
have one house of our own belonging to the
Relief Society. We have never yet had a
visit from the leading sisters, but anticipate
one sometime, we shall be very glad to
have them come to see us.”
	Pocatello: President Eliza M. Oram said:
“During the two years I have presided we
have visited the Stake throughout three
times. We have ten wards and three hun-
dred members. We are in a scattered con-
dition, though we travel by team and we
are united in the work. We had a visit
from Sister Grant and Sister Stevenson and
we enjoyed their visit very much, they have
the spirit of progress. We feel there are
not enough young women who appreciate
the work of this society. Brother Nuttall
came and went through the Stake with us.
Our sisters are not rich and money is scarce
with us, our sisters cannot give as those
who are working for a salary. I feel to
bless the sisters of the General Board. Sis-
ter Grant prophesied to us when she was
there and her words came to pass in less
than a month.”
	Bingham Stake, President Emma J. Ben-
nett: “We have visited all the places this
last spring except one. We have to travel
over seven hundred miles and do it all by

[Column 2]
team. I believe we are converting our
brethren up there. At first they seemed
afraid and did not come into our meetings,
but now we have a great many of them who
attend. They really did not know the
benefit of the Relief Society until they had
one in their own locality. We have had
Sister Stevenson’s counsel and instruction
we have had in our visits a wonderful por-
tion of the Spirit of God in our meetings in
the various places. I am pleased that we
are to have a building of our own, every
Stake will be interested in this, we are all
working for the same cause.”
	The Young Ladies’ choir sang a very
beautiful hymn, “Labor On.”
	The secretary gave out notices of meet-
ings and explained some important matters.
	President Thomas E. Ricks, of Fremont
Stake, gave a good report of the sisters’
labors in that place. He was thankful for
the Relief Society, and that we were to
have a place to meet in suitable to our
needs. Referred to the faithful labors of
the older sisters, some of them who had
been faithful since the first days of the
Church.
	President Zina D. H. Young: “If I had
the power to bless you, my sisters, more
than you are blest, I would do so; but the
blessings of heaven are with us. I always
feel like a babe in the hands of my Father
in heaven. Sisters, never speak a word
against the authorities of this Church. May
we each of us have wisdom to impart the
true principles to our children and to our
companions, and to the world, I rejoice in
the spirit that has filled this house,
the sweet peace, the loving forbearance of
our Heavenly Father, that takes us into
sacred nearness to Him. I pray that we
may all come together again in the name of
Jesus. Amen.”
	President Jane S. Richards: “I have had
several invitations to speak today, but wished
to hear from “Sister Zina” and others. I
never get tired in a Relief Society meeting.
We have had a glorious time today in this
conference, and I wished to wait until every
one else had spoken. I have enjoyed the
meeting very much, and have felt happy
and had enjoyment in hearing the reports
and in listening to the mothers, and
especially to Sister Zina. It is a great call-
ing to be a mother, and to train our children
whether we are mothers or grandmothers.
I feel as some of the sisters do who have
spoken about partaking of the sacrament.
Sister Horne spoke of this. I think we can
all improve in this matter. When we think
of the love of our Father while we are par-
taking, and we want our children with us.
I have admired very much all who have re-
ported, especially the one who spoke of the
rough boys. I must tell a little story: One
day there were four little boys quarreling,
calling each other bad names as I was going
along the street. I stopped a minute and
talked to them. I told them I was sorry to
hear such language and tried to persuade
them to make up, ‘but,’ I said, ‘I am going
on now and I’ll be back in ten minutes.
You little boys partake of the sacrament. I
shall be obliged to report you to the Sunday
School unless you make up before I come
back. When I returned they had made it
all up. We ought to teach all these little
things. What a favor and privilege it is to
live when Temples are built and the Lord
will accept of them and we have the oppor-
tunity of doing a work for our dead friends.
Sister Smith said she liked to see us in the

[Column 3]
Temple, she has the spirit of it. When I
went for my grandmother I left her name.
Brother Edlefson said, ‘No, do for her
yourself,’ I was gratified to have the feel-
ing that my grandmother was by me and
followed me. We have everything to en-
courage us. When Jesus was upon the
earth He worked among the poor, just as
we do when we are trying to do the work
He did. Weakly people, when they go to a
good meeting, come home feeling well and
lifted up in their hearts to go on in doing
good. May the Lord bless us and keep us
safe, is my prayer.
	Conference adjourned until April. 1901.
Singing, “God be with you till we meet
again.” Benediction by Sister Elizabeth J.
Stevenson.
		E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


