[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON | Author: this time some of the inmates began]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)
    By this time some of the inmates began
to be jealous of me, and talk about me and
do all they could. They said that I was an
impostor and that they dared not pass my
door; that I was a witch, and so on. But I
did not mind it for I had passed through all
that sort when I had first joined the Church.
I knew that friends had been raised up to
me in time of need by my Heavenly Father
and I learned to trust him.
    I asked the nurse if she would prop me
up when the minister came again, for I felt
as if I would like to talk to him. I prayed
that I might be given strength to talk

[Column 2]
and words to say; for of myself I knew
that I could say nothing, for I was entirely
unlearned. He came. The nurse propped
me up as I had asked and then I told him
that I wished to talk with him about my
religion. He seemed pleased and was as
kind as he could have been if he had been
my father. He had the windows raised,
for it was very warm, and then told me he
would like to listen if I was strong enough.
    I spent more than an hour in telling him
what there was in the Bible. A great many
things he said he had never seen in his
Bible, and thought it was from some other
book. But I told him that if he would
bring his Bible I would mark it for him so
he could read it. I had a synopsis of the
Bible with me and I knew that I could find
anything that I wanted.
    When he came again he brought his
Bible, but the first thing to be mentioned
was the Book of Mormon. He said that
the Bible did not say anything about such a
book. I asked him what Isaiah meant when
he spoke of the Stick of Judah and the
Stick of Ephraim that were to be made one
Stick in the hands of the Lord? He said
he had never seen such a statement in the
Bible. We had a long talk and he, when
he left, left his beautiful morocco bound
Bible with me. I had lost the use of my
lower limbs, but not of my hands, so I pro-
cured a pencil and set to work marking
passages and by the time he returned I had
about fifty marked for him. When he
came I handed it to him. As many as
thirty of the inmates at a time had come
and listened to our talks. I used to pray
that my memory might be strengthened
and that I might have wisdom that what-
ever I should say would be correct. On
his next visit, after inquiring about my
condition, he said: “My dear young girl, I
have lived to see the words of our blessed
Lord fulfilled in you, for he said, ‘These
things shall be hid from the wise and prudent
and be revealed even unto babes.’ I was
brought up and trained in college to be a
minister of the Gospel, but I never in all
my studies knew such words were in the
Bible; but I must confess that what you
have said is true.”
    One young lady made a remark thinking
to take me off what I was saying, but the
minister turned to her and told her I was
abundantly able to answer all questions,
and that if she could not be quiet to leave
the room. She did not bother me any more.
He was a constant visitor as long as I re-
mained there and his last words to me were
“God bless and spare your life. The doc-
tor has given me some hopes today.”
    A few nights before I left the hospital
two bright lights appeared at my window,
and I heard these words distinctly, ‘‘Arise
and depart from here; this place is polluted
and you will be destroyed, Joseph and
Hyrutn Smith.”
I told the night nurse and she said she
guessed it was an angel, for I had often
told her that angels did come to the earth
these days. How I prayed that the doctor
would send me home, for I feared to stay
there. When the doctor made his next
visit he told me that I would have to
undergo an operation, I told him that I would
never submit to that. To that he said,
“you may then go home, we can do no
more for you.” He looked at me and said,
“What do you want to live for? The fear
of death, or the love of the world ?”
My answer was the love of the world.

[Column 3]
He said that if I lived I would never be
any good to myself or to any one else.
Many of my friends came to see me and I
finally wrote a letter to my friends to come
and take me home. So after nine weary
weeks of torture and suffering I was given
a paper by the doctor stating that I was in-
curable. I was taken home and was given
a large supply of medicine. My mother
was told to report my condition occasionally.
    At the end of two weeks my mother went
to see the doctor, who asked if that poor
girl were still alive. He gave her some
more medicine for me. A few days after
that some of my old Methodist friends called
to see me, and while they were there I had
to take some of my medicine. One of them
asked me if I knew what it was I was taking.
I said that I did not, and then he told me
it was opium. I looked astonished at him,
for I had been told that he took a great deal
of that poison, and a more haggard and
sickly looking man it would be hard to find.
I thought that if I could not live without
taking that drug it was better for me to die.
I prayed earnestly that if my living de-
pended upon my taking that drug which I
saw made such ghastly looking sights, that
I might die.
    As soon as my strength permitted, I took
all of the medicine that I had and went out-
side and buried it and there covenanted with
the Lord that if He would spare my life that
I might be useful in the kingdom, I would
never take doctor’s medicine again.
    I was restored to health, and though-
fifty-five years have passed and I have had
much sickness to go through, I have never
taken any of their medicine to speak of.
    After I was restored, my companion in
the Church, Sister Sarah Martin, and I
ussd to distribute tracts for the mission-
aries through two different villages; we
made a round each Sunday evening. We
had three miles to the one place and two to
the other, but we never missed going sum-
mer or winter for years. Sometimes the
people would listen to what we had to say
and sometimes they would not; some would
tell us that they had burned those we left
last and they did not want any more: others
would shut the door in our faces, but
wherever the people would listen to us we
told them what the Lord wanted of them to
the best of our ability, and we had the
pleasure of seeing some of the fruits of our
labors.
    One night as I was walking with the
president of the Bedfordshire mission our
conversation was turned to the young man
with whom I had been keeping company.
I told the president that I would never
marry him in this world, for he was too
narrow-minded, I could never be happy
with him. The president told me that
Brother Underwood loved me as much as a
man could love a woman. “But,” said he,
“the half of a man you could love is better
than the whole of one you could not love.”
    This surprised me, and I asked him if he
meant by that that men had more than one
wife in these days.
    His reply was, “You must have caught
the spirit of it!”
    “Well,” I told him, “the Bible speaks of
men having more than one wife.”
    His only answer to this was that we have
the same Gospel that the ancients had.
    I could plainly see that if plural marriage
was a principle of the Gospel then, it must
of necessity be so now. That was the first
time I had heard it hinted at, that polygamy
was being practised in the Church, I learned


[Column 1]
little by little until I was fully convinced
that it was true. This was in 1846. My
sister was in Nauvoo at this time and when
I wrote to her I asked her if the men there
had more than one wife. She said they did
some of them, but it was not publicly
known to the world. My companion, Sarah
Martin, and I used to talk about it when
we were together, and read about it in the
Bible until we were fully satisfied about it.
We never spoke of it to any of our friends,
and we made a vow that if ever we did
marry we would marry the same man.
Time rolled on, but we never swerved from
our promise. We said that we would not
marry until we came to where the Saints
were. The young man with whom I had
kept company left his home and went to
London, but I had long since decided that
we two should never wed. At this time
that principle was not known among the
people there, but we knew of it, and had
set our minds on what should be our lot.
We had several chances to marry, but the
conditions were not what we wanted, so we
refused. 
	In the early spring of 1850, Brother
Christopher Layton returned from Cali-
fornia, where he had gone as a member of
the Mormon Batalion. We had known him
before he went to America. He had left
England in January, 1843, for Nauvoo, and
while there his wife had died leaving a little
girl one year old; this my sister kept for
him.
	One night there was an Elder at our
place who had just returned from America,
and we were very anxious that the people
should hear him, so we invited our neigh-
bors in. But instead of their coming with
a pure motive, they called in all of the
roughest element for miles around and
came to do mischief. As the Elder was
talking they began throwing stones at the
house. The house being made of concrete,
the plaster was soon knocked off and the
windows broken. They had formed two
lines along the path, thinking to catch the
Elder and some of the Saints and drag them
to the river and throw them into it. But
they were defeated, for we led them around
another way. They climbed over our live
fence and made their escape while the mob
waited.
	This was very hard on my father, for he
was not a Mormon and it worried him. The
mob continued throwing stones for some
time. Finally my father went out and
told them that the Elder was far away. This
he did for two reasons: one for the safety of
his property, and the other was to find out
who some of the men were. This he did.
The next day the landlord came and told
father that he would have to leave that
home. “For,” said he, “you see what
your wife and daughter have brought you
into.” I told father that the Lord would
help us to get another house. Before that
day was past he had secured another and
the following day we moved. The land-
lord saw what he had done, and sent word
that he was sorry for what he had done in
his anger. Within a year my father and

[Column 2]
mother moved back to the old home in
which I had lived all of my days so far.
	Soon after the return of Brother Layton
his sister sent for my mother and me to
come over, as he wanted to see us. We
were pleased to see him, as he had seen my
sister not long before. He told us that he
was going to return to Utah in the fall and
that he would be pleased to take me with
him. This suited me very well. The next
day he came over to our house and asked
my mother if she would give me to him for
his wife. This she refused, as she said she
did not believe in hasty marriages. He
asked me what I thought about it, and I
told him that my mother had always wished
me well, and that I would not go against
her wishes. He then told me that he should
go over to see Sarah Martin. I told him
that she would be glad to see him, as we
had been brought up close neighbors. He
asked her to be his wife and she consented.
She was about four years my senior. He
told us then that the Latter-day Saints be-
lieved in having more than one wife. We
told him that we knew that and had
understood it for a long time. He asked us
if we would be willing  to live together when
we should arrive in Utah. We told him
then that we had made that agreement long
since, and that we had no desire to break it.
	I did not tell my parents what I intended
to do, neither did Sarah Martin; but it was
understood between the three of us.
		(To be continued.)


56
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


