[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: R. S. Reports | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

R. S. REPORTS.
BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Box
Elder Stake was held in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, June 12, 1900, President S.
P. Booth presiding. Singing “Awake ye
Saints of God, awake.” Prayer by Counselor
Louisa Peters. Singing, “How great the
joy that promised day.”
	The Stake officers were present on the
stand and of the General Board Jane S.
Richards and Emmeline B. Wells, also
Sarah A. Herrick, of Ogden.
	Minutes of the previous conference,
morning session, were read by the secretary
and accepted.
	President S. P. Booth was pleased to
be able to meet under such favorable cir-
cumstances and wished to give as much
time as possible to our visitors.
	President Jensen, of Mantua, President
Summerville, of Honeyville, President
Annie S. Johnson, of the First Ward,
Brigham City, gave favorable reports of
their respective wards.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of our
own imperfections, if we were perfect our-

[Column 2]
selves we would have no mercy or charity
for others. The sisters of the Relief Society
are doing their part to help along. Coun-
seled the sisters to be united.
	Sister Sarah A. Herrick, of Ogden, took
great pleasure in listening to the minutes,
good always comes from doing our duty.
	President Hubbard, of Willard, spoke of
the blessings of the Lord that will be given
to all who keep His commandments.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “Come follow me.” Benediction by
Counselor Amelia Madsen.
	Afternoon session. Singing “Come
dearest Lord descend and dwell.” Prayer
by Counselor David P. Burt. Singing “Ye
simple souls who stray.” Roll called, show-
ing thirteen wards present out of sixteen.
Minutes of the previous conference, after-
noon session, were read by the correspond-
ing secretary and accepted. The Stake re-
ports were also read.
	Counselor David P. Burt then presented
the following names of sisters who had been
selected as officers in the Third ward Re-
lief Society, Brigham City: President,
Lizzie Burt; counselors, Emma Lee and
Frederica Peterson; secretary, Maria
Phillips; assistant secretary, Rose Keeley;
treasurer, Sophia Thompson. Fourth
Ward: President, Sarah Wilde; counselors,
Elizabeth Wright and Martena Pulsipher;
secretary, Lulu B. Call; assistant secretary,
Emily Brown; treasurer, Maria Hansen.
	The officers were all unimously sustained.
Sister E. B. Wells addressed the conference.
Spoke of the growth of the Relief Society,
its great magnitude and made a specialty of
silk culture, encouraging all to do what-
ever they could towards advancing the im-
portant industry; also spoke impressively
on the high calling and privileges of the
women of Zion, the great blessing the Re-
lief Society had been to all who had been
members, and what a superior education
might be acquired through laboring in this
organization for practical charity and the
uplifting of humanity. Urged the young
sisters to take part in the work. Spoke
feelingly of obedience and faithfulness in
attending to our duties.
	Sister Jane S. Richards related her
past experience; we have to be reconciled
to things that take place. Advised the
younger sisters to join the Relief Society.
	President S. P. Boothe made a few
closing remarks, and after singing Doxology
benediction was pronounced by President
Ella Watkins. Conference adjourned until
September.
		OLIVE BYWATER, Cor. Sec.
				Box Elder Stake R. S.
	P. S. After the close of the conference
an officers meeting was held in which many
questions were asked and much good in-
struction was given to those desiring in-
formation.
BEAVER STAKE.
	Conference of the Beaver Stake Relief
Society was held in the Society hall, in
Beaver City, Utah, May 11, 1900, com-
mencing at ten o’clock a. m.
	Present on the stand of the sisters were
Stake President C. C. Shepherd and
Counselors M. A. White; Ward Presidents
J. W. Bickley, Winnie Miller, and Susan
Roberts; Vice-Presidents M. A. Tolton and
Sarah Walker; of the brethren, Bishops
George Mumford, George Eyres and others.
	Meeting opened by singing “I saw a
mighty angel fly.” Prayer by Elder John


[Column 1]
Lang. Singing, “May we who know the
joyful sound.” Roll called, nine officers
present. Minutes of morning session of
previous conference were read and accepted.
	President Shepherd said it does us good
to meet and hear the reports of the differ 
ent branches; also of the growth of these
organizations in the past fifty-eight yeats,
and the many duties devolving upon us—
building, looking after the sick, etc.
	Bishop Mumford spoke of the good spirit
here, also of the necessity of attending our
different conferences. We should not
neglect spiritual for temporal duties. Re-
ferred to the judgments which are abroad
on the face of the earth, and felt that more
of our young sisters should identify them-
selves with the Relief Society.
	Vice-President M. A. Tolton bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and the
divine mission of Joseph Smith. Spoke of
the necessity of living up to our
many duties.
	Sister Harriet Ashworth sweetly sang
“He Knows.”
	Sister S. M. Dell felt well in this work.
Prayed the Lord to bless us.
	Sister Sarah Walker said the Miners-
ville sisters had built a hall which they de-
sired to finish and dedicate another year.
They had a good set of sisters, alive to
their duties.
	Sister Edward Stevenson, of Salt Lake
City, who had arrived since meeting opened,
was pleased to be with us and feel the good
spirit here. This a grand work organized
by the Prophet Joseph. The first organiz-
ation consisted of comparatively young
women, now our young sisters do not unite
with us as they should. The prophet said
the Church was not fully organized until
the Relief Society was organized, which
was not only to look after the needy, com-
fort the afflicted, etc., but to provoke our
husbands to their duties; never allow our
children to speak lightly against the holy
priesthood and those in authority, brethren
or sisters. Spoke of the sad disaster at
Schofield, also the judgments befalling the
nations. Referred to the sacred duties of
teachers, our annual meeting and ten
cent donations and other obligations. Re-
ferred to the instructions of President
Young to the sisters in regard to building,
storing grain, etc. The young sisters
should come and learn how to train the
precious jewels entrusted to their care.
	Bishop George Eyres made encouraging
and eulogistic remarks.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. to L. D.
S. meeting house. Singing “Lord dismiss
us.” Benediction by President M. L.
Shepherd.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 o’clock p.
m. by singing “We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet.” Prayer by Professor W.
G. Bickley. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.” Minutes of afternoon ses-
sion of previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President J. W. Bickley reported the
Beaver Relief Society in good condition.
Have work meetings every week. Grain
has been in good condition until the present
time, but now mice are working through
the ceiling, but we intend to take im-
mediate steps to stop their depredations.
	President Susan Roberts reported the
Minersville Society in a prosperous con-
dition. The sisters are united and turn out
well both to religious and work meetings.
	President Winnie Miller reported the

[Column 2]
Greenville society prosperous; fair attend-
ance; rock on hand to build a hall.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
and the General and Stake officers of the
Relief Society were presented and sustained.
	A solo was sweetly rendered by Sister
Janet Shipp.
	Stake Counselor M. A. White spoke on
the many duties of mothers and the care
necessary in training our children. The
Relief Society is a great help to mothers.
	Sister Stevenson felt very humble in
standing before us. “Motherhood is a
grand mission. These noble spirits which
we have to bear were held in reserve for
this dispensation.” She spoke of the neces-
sity of a watch care over our sons and
daughters, gaining their confidence, teach-
ing them virtue and the necessity of purity
in matrimonial life, that wives may be
healthy and raise pure offspring; also spoke
on faith, household duties, economy,
cleanliness the word of wisdom and every
good virtue. The sisters should belong to
the Relief Society. It is suggested that
each pay a little towards building a house
for the General Society. Encouraged the
sisters to sustain the Exponent. We
should read good literature and not trashy
novels. Bore a faithful testimony to the
Gospel.
	President C. D. White spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children to labor and
lighten the burdens of mothers; also the law
of tithing. Sabbath breaking was spoken
strongly against.
	President Shepherd made closing re-
marks. Primary conference was announced
for the next day at 2 o’clock p. m., and
conference adjourned till the second Friday
in November. Singing, “The spirit of
God.” Benediction by Patriarch D. Tyler.
	ALICE M. T. TANNER, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


