[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: SOUTH AFRICAN SITUATION. | Author: Unknown]

SOUTH AFRICAN SITUATION.
		(Concluded.)
	The president has been married twice.
His first wife only lived a short time.
Several years after he married a niece of his
first wife, by whom he has had sixteen chil-
dren, seven are still living.
	Allen Sangru in the Ainslee says:
	If Paul Kruger died today the Boer nation
would pass into history tomorrow; no man nor
combination of men could replace him. He alone
welds together the chain of humanity that is strug-
gling for liberty in South Africa. It is as though one
mighty individual were fighting the British Em-
pire. He is Atlas, supporting the world. He has
no counterpart on earth Enemies may ridicule his
religion, slur his principles and accuse him of hy-
procrisy, but he stands a figure as adamantine as
it is animated which no one believes will ever be
cast down. He is a Sphinx surcharged with wis- 
dom and energy to whom 40,600 Burghers look up
as their savior.
	Twenty-seven years ago Cecil John
Rhodes, then a tall, thin lad, was advised
by his physician to go to South Africa if he
wished to live more than three years. He
and his brother sailed and reached Natal
while the diamond mines of Kimberly were
in full blast. Cecil remained there for
several years and finally went back to Ox-
ford to complete his education. Returning
to South Africa with the Rothschild money
he began to be a factor in politics, mining
and government and in 1875 he was in the
zenith of his glory. He was many times a
millionaire, the head of one of the greatest
enterprises, director of the affairs of the
dominion that occupies one tenth of a conti-
nent, almost the sole owner of Rhodesia.
His power was nearly absolute over a ter-
ritory that extended from the Cape of Good
Hope into Central Africa, then eastward to
within a few miles of Indian Ocean. But
with all this wealth, all this power, Cecil J.
was not satisfied, he looked at the map of


[Column 1] 
Africa and saw the Transvaal and Orange
Free State flag occupying the position he
had marked for the British emblem. In
order that he might strike at the head he
determined t[-] commence operation by first
attacking and exterminating the Transvaal
as the fall of that would carry with it the
Orange Free State. This was the plot [-]f
the Jameson raid formed, but the dream
so near realization one dav was dissolved
the next, and he was obliged to assign the
premiership of Cape Colony. The failure of
this raid was especially galling to Rhodes,
as it was the first time his great political
schemes had failed. He then planned upon
a commercial death by opening Rhodesia
for settlement. Several thousand persons
were lured from their happy homes, but
only remained about a year, and then were
glad to go back to the Transvaal and Oom
Paul. In the last ten or twelve years the
Transvaal country has proved to be of such
enormous value that it has attracted and
will continue to attract investors from all
parts of the world. The gold products
alone yield over one hundred and twenty-
five million dollars a year, more than a
third of the world’s production. Coal in
good quantities has been found, but the
process of development is so slow that al-
most all the coal comes from Wales. Lately
American coal has secured a firm foothold.
Everything in the eatable line is grown in
the Transvaal except sugar and coffee.
They have vast timber lands, but almost all
timber used in the mining district is trans-
ported from Puget Sound, the native timber
being unsuited for the underground sup-
ports.
	Thus it is easy to see the reason the
British want this country. The yield is so
enormous and the Transvaal being an
inland state it promises a feeding ground for
those states between it and the sea. Every
ton of freight that enters the Transvaal
from the sea, i[-] subject to a high custom
duty. Freight shipped from Europe is taxed
by the steamship line, the Cape Colony R.
R., the Orange Free State tax it before
allowing it to pass through the territory
and then the Transvaal custom duties.
	Mr. Kruger says all the blame of this
war is on Rhodes, with Miller and Cham-
berlain as assistants, and he says they will
not be content until the Brirish flag floats
over the whole of Africa. All the land
that England has in South Africa she has
taken at the muzzles of repeating rifles and
machine guns. This seems to be the civil-
ized method of extending the bounds of the
empire they talk about so much. Mr.
Rhodes wants all of the country south of
the Zambizi river united, and must have
possession of the Transvaal and Orange
Free State before he can be president of the
United States of South Africa. The Old
Man says we will fight until not one Boer
remains to defend our country. The Boers
are born sharpshooters and from infancy
are taught to put a bullet in a buzzard’s
skull at one hundred yards away, so that
the Boer army is filled with lads from 17
to 21.
	It is said that if the worst came the Boers
have sufficient food stuff stored away in the
Z outpanberg mountains to last 18 months.
	Mr. Kruger says, “We are a pecular
people and if God wills that we lose our
independence, then it is better we should
all pass away. A Boer would brood over
his thoughts, the women and children
would hate the conqueror, and when there

[Column 2]
is so much bitterness there would be no
happiness. 	It would be better to die, then
each one could say 'I have fought the good
fight, I have finished my course, I have
kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up
for me a crown of righteousness.' " 
