[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: Editorial Notes | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	It was with sincere regret that we learned
of the illness of our beloved friend and
woman’s benefactor, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, and we hope and pray and trust
that ere this she has entirely recovered.
Miss Anthony’s name is a household word
in the United States and across the sea she
is held in reverence and honored every-
where, in the mansions of the great and
noble of the lands, and in the cottages of
the people. America has reason to be
justly proud of a woman who alone and
single-handed has carried out such a re-
markable destiny and carved along with
her thousands of other women, who, but for
the paths she has broken over rough and
untrodden ways, might never have attained
to the higher views of life's perspective
where they can look out into the broader
fields of human liberty and higher pro-
gression.
	Tuesday, September 5, President Lorenzo
Snow gave the brothers and sisters en-
gaged in the Temple work, an excursion to 
Saltair, in which by invitation Presidents
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith and
several of the Apostles and others joined
the party. Everything passed off pleasantly

[Column 2]
and the affair was a most agreeable recre
ation to those whose time is constantly em-
ployed in special service to benefit and bless
the living and the dead. We acknowledge
with sincere thanks an invitation to be one
of the numerous guests ot the occasion, and
regret that circumstances prevented our
making one of such a delightful party.
	Mrs. Mary Urquhart Lee, the teacher of
“Parliamentary Law and the Cultivation of
the Speaking Voice and other Mediums of
Expression” is in the city at the Kenyon
and has classes daily in both these depart-
ments of her work. Mrs. Lee is a delight-
ful person to be associated with even for a
time. Her methods are entirely new and
seemingly very original. Her talks are in-
tensely interesting. She has awakened
quite an interest among club women and
others, and her drills in organized classes
are quite wonderful. She spares no pains to
make the classes attractive and to demon-
strate clearly her ideas of physical perfection
in grace and poise. Even a few lessons are
helpful, and to those who take a full course
must be decidedly beneficial. Mrs. Lee is
a noted authority on Parliamentary Law in
America, so much so that several news-
paper men and lawyers have at times joined
her classes. She gives the most essential
points that she has acquired by years of
study and experience in teaching. The
women of Salt Lake may congratulate
themselves upon having this fine opportun-
ty of being taught by one so accomplished
in style and manner, so brilliant in conver-
sation and so bright and sparkling in all her
ways as to give one the impression that she
is in love with life and brave enough to
face all its vicissitudes. Mrs. Lee is vigor-
ous and self-possessed, broad-minded in her
views of the world of mankind and a
thorough cosmopolitan. She is pleased
with Salt Lake and it is to be regretted she
cannot stay longer in Utah.
	On Friday, September 21, an At Home
was given by Sister Priscilla Jennings which
was a most enjoyable gathering of choice
sisters. Her elegant rooms were brightened
with autumn flowers and leaves, the Utah
sunflower being, perhaps, the most con-
spicuous. Music on the pianola by pro-
fessional musicians added to the pleasure
of the afternoon. Of the sixty-seven invi-
tations issued to the sisters nearly all were
present to partake of the cordial hospitality
of the hostess, whose tact and geniality
make her “Teas and Parties” interesting
and thoroughly attractive. The meeting
of old friends under such favorable arrange-
ments for enjoyment is a positive luxury
to the sisters who devote themselves, their
time and ability to Church work, chari-
table and philanthropic, in addition to
home duties and obligations. Among the
venerable Mothers in Israel present were
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elizabeth
Webb, Mary Alice Lambert and many
other women whose good works entitle
them to a high place in the history of the
Latter-day Saints. It is needless to say
that the tables were elegant in appearance
and the refreshments delicious and appe-
tizing. President Zina D. H. Young, by
request of Mrs. Jennings, pronounced the
blessing when the guests were all seated at
the numerous tables, large and small, in
the handsome dining room and library.
Mrs. Jennings is an ideal hostess, and this
last party was a delightful success, as al[-]
who participated in it will certainly agree


[Column 1]
and say long may Sister Jennings live to be
a benefit and blessing, a light and an ex-
ample to her numerous posterity and her
many friends.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Fourteenth
Ward gave a banquet on the evening of
their regular meeting, Tuesday, September
11, in the ward hall. Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
the superintendent, assisted by her coun-
selors and members, making such prepar-
ations as to assure the comfort and enjoy-
ment of all invited guests. The distin-
guished guest of the occasion, in whose
honor the party was given, was the highly
esteemed General President of this great
organization of young ladies, Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor, who for more than twenty years
has labored unremittingly for the benefit of
the young women of Zion, and whose
seventieth birthday occurred on the 12th of
September. About two hundred people
were present and joined in celebrating the
birthday party, even though it was the
evening previous to the eventful day. Miss
Campbell made the address of welcome after
all had been seated at the tables, which were
profusely decorated with a variety of beauti-
ful flowers; the ivy twined about the plates
at each place was a dainty device and 
artistic in effect. Bishop George H. Taylor
pronounced the blessing after all were 
seated. Superintendent Ruth M. Fox was
busy here and there attending to all her
guests and genial as the autumn sunshine.
After everything had been arranged Sister
Fox announced that the young people
would give some humorous anecdotes,
jokes and witticisms including conundrums.
Their departure from the usual method of
procedure was a source of merriment and
prevented any tendency to eulogize the
honored lady, who is deeply sensitive and
dislikes public demonstrations on her own 
account, preferring appreciation in simpler
ways and in deeds rather than words.
After the young folks had given some not-
able exhibitions of good humor, Sister Fox
called upon Sister E. B. Wells to make a 
few remarks, in which she referred feelingly
to the labors of Sister Taylor and the future 
destiny of the young people of Zion. Elder
C. W. Penrose followed, beginning with
some quaint stories and merging into more
serious matters. The party was an admir-
able success in the way of solid enjoyment
and social equality, and cannot fail to have 
good results. Patriarch John Smith pro-
nounced the benediction previous to the
company dispersing.
	Miss Helen Margaret Ring, of Denver,
Colorado, recently visited our city and spent
a few days, during which time we had
several talks with her and found her a most
fascinating personality and brilliant conver-
sationalist. Miss Ring has traveled ex-
tensively and very recently visited Mexico
and Arizona also Mancos in New Mexico,
where she explored the ancient cliff dwellers
habitations and other places of special
interest to anthropologists. Miss Ring gave
her lecture on “Famous Women of the
French Salon” in the Congregational
Church under the auspices of the W. C. T.
U. of this city, Friday evening, September
7. She was introduced to the audience by
Mrs. E. E. Shepherd in a graceful manner,
and her own appearance was most attractive.
Her delineations of character were toned to
perfection, surpassing any lecture it has
been our privilege to hear. In fact she
brought the persons before one in pictures
so vivid that imaginative people might fancy

[Column 2]
the scenes transpiring upon the platform.
Miss Ring gave herself for the time being to 
her subject and that is what always wins
an audience of intelligent people. Miss 
Ring is original and that, too, is a strong
point in one’s career in this day of
mechanical technique. We very much re-
gret that she could not remain longer in our
city and hope we may hear her again at
some future time. The ladies of the W. C.
T. U. secured excellent music for the eve-
uning. The singing, too, was sweet and
uplifting. The entire affair was a rare treat.
	Friday, September 7, the Relief Society
of the Eighth Ward of this city, held its
annual meeting at which were present of the
General Board, Presidents Zina D. H.
Young, Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith, also the secretary, E. B. Wells,
and President M. Isabella Horne, of the
Salt Lake Stake, and her counselors, Annie
T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon, and General
President Elmina S. Taylor, of the Y. L.
N. M. I. A., and some other guests—Presi-
dent Chamberlain presiding, her counselors,
Cartwright and Shelmardine, were in at-
tendance and the faithful secretary, Sister
Piggot. The hall was beautiful decorated
with a variety of flowers, that were a perfect
delight and added greatly to the enjoyment
of the afternoon. Counselor Cartwright
was present and Bishop E. J. Sheets came 
in during the meeting. The remarks by
the veteran Mothers in Israel, Sisters Zina,
Jane S. Richards, B. W. Smith and M. I.
Horne were deeply appreciated, as they
were mostly reminiscent of the early days
of the Relief Society and of the Church.
Sisters E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor, Annie
T. Hyde, Clara C. Cannon and Bishop
Sheets also each spoke a short time. After
the meeting had adjourned all were invited
to partake of a delicious supper (really a
banquet) in the large and commodious
vestry, where everything was delightfully
arranged for the enjoyment of the partici-
pants. On such occasions the Relief Society
is active and fully competent to minister in
the best and most happifying manner.
Bishop Sheets occupied the seat of honor
and pronounced the blessing. The tables
were artistically decorated with roses, car-
nations, oleanders and other sweet and at-
tractive blossoms, and the good cheer was
an added flavor to the sumptuous feast.
Sister E. B. Wells was called upon by
President Chamberlain to give a toast, and
responded with “The Mothers in Israel,”
those who had passed behind the veil, but who
still live in memory and whose names and
noble deeds should be held in humble remem-
brance throughout all time. Bishop Sheets
also gave a toast, “The Veteran Fathers of
the Church, Prophets and Apostles.” This
reunion of the Relief Society was both a
spiritual and temporal feast, and the social
enjoyment helps to unite in closer relations
those who meet together for active work
and service in the society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
