[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION. | Author: Unknown]

	DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION. 
                                               
                     (Concluded.)

	Liberty Bell, which bears the inscription:
“Proclaim Liberty throughout the land to
all the inhabitants thereof.”   And as I
stood by the old bell the words of the dear
old poem came back to my mind:

[Column 2]
	    That old state-house bell is silent,
		Hushed is now its iron tongue,
	    But the spirit it awakened,
		Still is living, ever young.
	    And while we greet the smiling sunlight.
		On the Fourth of each July,
	    We will not forget the bell, 
		Which twixt heaven and earth,
	     Rang out loudly, Independence!
		Which, please God, shall never die !”

	The next place visited was the Betsy
Ross House, the birthplace of “Old
Glory.”   From here we went to Christ’s
Church, a most historic spot; for many
prominent people—among them General
Washington, Franklin and the Penn family
—used to worship here.    The Continental
Congress appointed July 20, 1775, as a day
for prayer and fasting, and as a body at-
tended this church, and after Independence
bell ceased ringing on July 4, 1776, the
chimes of this church caught up the strain
and rang out the message anew.
	The last place visited on Tuesday morn-
ing was old St. Peter’s Church, where
Washington used to attend service. There
are many old interesting inscriptions and
tablets, one of the most important of which
is erected by the Pennsylvania Sons of the
Revolution, in honor of Captain William
Shippen, who was killed at the battle of
Princetown January 3, 1777.
	On Tuesday afternoon a most elaborate
breakfast was given the retiring delegates
by the General Society D. R. I will again
refer you to Miss Sterling and Miss Snow for
a very complete account of that delightful
event, for they have both told it so well.
	Wednesday, April 26, we went to Valley
Forge, and I am sure it was a day never to
be forgotten by any of us. We were met at
the Valley Forge R. R. Station by large
coaches in which we were driven all over
the historic spots.    Captain I. Heston
Todd, who owns the greater part of Valley
Forge, led the party and pointed out and
explained the points of interest. We know
that the American army went into camp at
this place on the 19th of December, 1777.
and remained there until June 19, 1778.
This is an excellent place for an encamp-
ment, as the natural features of the country
would enable the entrenchments to be made
very strong. The Schuylkill river bounds
it on one side, Valley Creek—a large
stream—on the other. These two streams
really take such a course as to encircle
Valley Forge on three sides, the other side
is protected by the earth works, planned by
one of Lafayette’s aid de camps. Modern
engineers are puzzled by some of the fea-
tures in these earth works. General
Washington’s headquarters are at the point
where the Schuylkill and Valley creek flow
nearest together.  Fort Washington is
directly opposite the Schuylkill, and the
headquarters of Lafayette and General
Knox were at the end nearest Valley creek,
while those of General Wayne were at the
other extremity of the Fort. Fort Hunt-
ingdon is almost directly opposite Wash-
ington’s and Wayne's headquarters, so that
the four headquarters really represent the
four extremities of the army encampment.
	Nothing remains of the Forts except the


[Column 1]
earth works, and the point that would have
been most accessible to an attacking force
was Fort Washington; so that the earth-
works are higher and steeper than at any
other place. The first name of this historic
spot was Mount Job, but there was, I think,
in 1757 a forge built on Valley creek, and
f[-]om that the place came to be known as
Valley Forge, where the raw recruits from
thirteen colonies were so ably drilled by
Baron Van Steuben, that they were able to
defeat the best English soldiers. We are
all familiar with the account of the suffer-
ings of our soldiers during that “terrible
winter” at Valley Forge, but Captain Todd
told me that the mortality among the
soldiers from the south was much greater
than among the northern soldiers, because
in building their huts they would not dig
deep enough into the earth, and were,
therefore, not protected against the cold.
Though the ground was covered by
graves at one time the only one that is now
marked is that of Captain John Waterman.
He is buried on a part of Captain Todd’s
property, and the Captain offered to give to
the Daughters of the Revolution that spot 
of ground, on condition that they would
erect a monument in honor of the brave
dead. The offer was accepted and the
monument will be erected.
The only buildings of Revolutionary fame
remaining are General Washington’s head-
quarters and the old camp schoolhouse. We
had lunch at a modern hotel called “The
Washington Inn.” The headquarters
house is in charge of the Centennial
and Memorial Association of Valley Forge.
This society is composed of ladies and
gentlemen. The present Regent is a lady,
Mrs. Anna M. Holstein, of Bridgeport.
The following statement is made of the
Headquarters House: “From cellar to
attic it is in good preservation, and appears
today precisely as it did when Washington
was domiciled within it. The doors, with
bells and locks, are the very same his
hands have moved; the floors, except a por-
tion of the one in the office room, are those
over which the Great Chieftain has walked
in many a weary hour; the window glass
and sash are unchanged since the days
when anxious eyes looked through them at
the soldiers’ huts upon the hills.”
In speaking of Valley Forge Thackeray
tells how easy it would have been for Howe
with his great army in Philadelphia to have
utterly defeated the American forces and
put a period to the Revolution at this time,
he says. “But it was ordained by heaven,
and for the good, as we can now have no
doubt, of both empires, that the great
Western Republic should separate from us;
and the gallant soldiers who fought on her
side, their indomitable chief above all, had
the glory of facing and overcoming, not
only veterans amply provided and inured
to war, but wretchedness, cold, hunger,
dissensions and treason in their own camp,
where all must have gone to rack but for
the pure, unquenchable flame of patriotism
that was forever burning in the bosom of
the heroic leader. What a constancy!
What a magnaminity! What a surprising
persistency against fortune! Washington
before the enemy was no better nor braver
than hundreds who fought with him or
against him; but Washington, the chief of
a nation in arms, doing battle with distracted
parties: calm in the midst of conspiracy;
serene against the open foe before him and
the darker enemies at his back; Washington
inspiring order and spirit into troops hun-

[Column 2]
gry and in rags; stung by ingratitude yet
ever ready to forgive; in defeat invincible,
magnaminous in conquest and never so
sublime as on the day when he laid down
his victorious sword and sought his noble
retirement. Here indeed is a character to
admire and revere, a fame without a flaw.”
On Wednesday evening the Pennsylvania
Society D. R. gave their delightful recep-
tion. A number of Colonial pictures were
shown, illustrating a lecture. The speaker
gave us a part of Paul Revere, but I did
not like his rendition of it nearly as well as
I did that of our Vice-Regent, Mrs. Wil-
liams.
Thursday morning we went to German-
town, saw the house where Gibbul-Stewart
painted the pictures of George and Martha
Washington, also Robert Morris’s house,
that Howe used as his headquarters while
in Philadelphia. We also visited most of
the scenes spoken of in Hugh Wynne, but
the principal places of interest were the
Germantown Academy, a boys’ school
founded by Franklin, and frequently visited
by Washington and the Chew House. This
house is still owned by the Chew family,
one of the wealthiest and most exclusive in
Philadelphia, and is not open to the public,
but as a special courtesy to the D. R., Mrs.
Chew threw her house open for their in-
spection. Chief Justice Chew was a great
friend of Washington’s, but on the morning
of October 4, 1777, some English soldiers
entrenched themselves in the house and the
battle of Germantown occurred right on
this spot. Mrs. Chew was so charming
and gave us a full history of the event.
The D. R’s. were officially represented
in the services of the unveiling of the Grant
monument on April 27, 1899, and our
President-General placed a laurel wreath
tied with the D. R. colors.on the monument.
On Thursday afternoon we visited the
University of Pennsylvania and were shown
about by Mr. Penniman, Dean of the Col-
lege department.
All of Friday was consumed in the drive
through Fairmount park. This ended the
week’s excursions, and Miss Sterling said
she considered it the cream of the enjoyable
events. We visited the Penn House, the
first brick house built in Philadelphia. It
was built by William Penn in 1682; also the
Belmont Mansion. The home of Judge
Richard Peters stands on George’s hill and
overlooks the city of Philadelphia. Wash-
ington used to ride out early in the morn-
ing alone. Other guests were Jefferson,
Adams, Morris, General Steuben, Louis
Phillipi and Franklin. Mount Pleasant,
Benedict Arnold’s home, later Baron Steu-
ben’s, was the last spot visited on the
drive.
JULIA A. FARNSWORTH LUND.


