[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: BRIGHAM YOUNG. | Author: RUTH M. FOX]

BRIGHAM YOUNG.

On the first day of June, eighteen hundred and
		one,
	The fair month of perfume and roses,
In the County of Windham, the State of Vermont,
	Where Whitingham village reposes
A prophet was born; how proudly the sun
	Beamed down on the nations that morning,
His glances of love lingering over the town,
	The town that our prophet was born in.

No glittering pageant to emblazon his way,
	No herald to tell of the glory
He would bring to his nation at some future day;
	A hero of song and of story.
Not a hint to the world that a seer was sent,
	An ensign to raise to the people;
That an era was dawning of peace and good will,
	The goal of the ages, the sequel.

Brigham Young thy achievements we witness to-
		day,
	In these green vales of the mountains;
For thou, under God, didst cause deserts to bloom,
	Parched ground to burst forth into fountains,
As far as our vision extends either way,
	Yea, even from centre to border;
On mount, valley and stream thy name is en-
		graved,
	A witness to ev’ry beholder.
Magnificent piles have been reared to his name,
	A people united together,
Called from many a land by the power of God,
	Inspired by the faith of their leader.

O, sons of the prophet, his memory revere,
	Seek naught but to add to his lustre,
As down through the ages it triumphantly rolls,
	Rare gems round his name may you cluster,
When your little ones gather around you at eve,
	Ye daughters, O tell them the story
Of his valor, his wisdom, his honor of God,
	Yea, e’en till your locks have grown hoary.

Today a great people delight in his name,
	Their Moses, whom God did rely on
To lead forth His children from bondage and
		sin,
	To establish a Latter-day Zion
Upon this glorious land, blest home of the free!
	Where forever Thy praises will ring;
For a church with a prophet and seer at its head,
	Whilst Thou art our God and our King.
						RUTH M. FOX.
	Salt Lake City, June 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
