We Want to Write Dorothy Clapp Robinson [It is hoped this article may prove helpful to Latter-day Saint women who plan to enter the annual Relief Society Short Story Contest. Ed.] T might be well to state, here and now, that any similarity between the content of this article and an original idea is purely accidental. Neither does it claim to carry the stamp of authority, but it presents gleanings from study and experience which have helped this author; and that brings us to the question: What is a story? There are, apparently, as many definitions of a story as there are writers. A simple pattern, one that is workable and high on the preferred list is: Character, conflict (struggle), solution (attainment). Simple, isn't it? But the catch is to so integrate these elements that the reader will not be aware of any pattern in the story. If this is done, the finished product will be simple, direct, unified, with a single emotional effect. Why use a pattern? For the same reason you would use one in making a dress, that the result may be more sure, better proportioned, and more pleasing to the senses. We know there are women who sew without using a pattern, for their dresses are proof of it. On the other hand, there are women to whom the pattern is everything. Somewhere between these two extremes is the woman who makes a pattern serve her purpose, but adds to it her personal taste and her artistry. The result, then, is original and attractive. Sometimes it is a masterpiece. So with a story. There may have been strong stories written without the use of a pattern, but they were not written by amateurs. More likely the pattern has been so skillfully hidden that the casual reader thinks there isn't one. Character is the writer's first consideration. For all practical purposes, there is no story until there is at least one character. The way the struggle progresses will depend entirely on the person who is doing the struggling. Three women are widowed and each has a child. One parks her child with her mother and goes out and hunts a job so she will have a check on Saturday night. Another borrows money, hires her mother to care for her child, goes back to school and eventually becomes an executive. The third woman sends her child to the neighbor's, spends her last dollar for a new hat and goes out and gets herself another man. See what is meant? Each woman will solve her problem according to her intelligence, her initiative, and her background. So let us have characters first  strong characters who are not echoes but individuals. You need not be too specific about personal appearances, for some readers do not think pearly teeth and golden hair are beautiful. What readers do want to know is how your character feels and why. Page 375 376 "Jane is a charming hostess," is not only a trite expression but it does not say one thing about Jane. The same thing could be said about two hundred forty-seven other hostesses. How is Jane different? We do not want to be told, either. We want to see why Jane is Jane and not Dora. To be able to characterize successfully, one should have a love of people and know a little, at least, of practical psychology. The story should be told from the viewpoint of one character. If it is Jane's story, all action must be seen, and heard, and felt through the eyes and ears and heart of Jane. We do not switch viewpoint in a short story; and in a three-thousand-word story the viewpoint character and two or three minor characters are all that can be handled without awkwardness. Usually the viewpoint character is the main character. She, or he, should be a strong, likable person, but not without faults. A person who knows all the answers does not need our sympathy. The conflict, or struggle, your character is facing should be simple rather than complex, but it should be worthy of worry. While it is an individual's problem, it should be significant enough so that it will have some of the earmarks of universality. If Jane is struggling to get money to buy a new electric stove, she must have some more urgent motive than the looks of her kitchen if she wants reader co-operation. But if the grate is burned out of her old Monarch, and she is baking cookies to send her son to college and, besides, she has to chop her own wood we are really going to struggle with her and enjoy it. The deeper the writer probes into the basic conflicts of life, the stronger her story will be, other things being equal, of course. While problems are more or less universal, the application of them should be original and distinctive. N a three-thousand-word story the characters, the setting, and the problem should all be clearly defined in the first five hundred words or less. The other twenty-five hundred should be used in building up to the climax. Sometimes, for the sake of suspense, the conflict is not stated specifically at first. We may be given only a hint as to its nature, but we feel it from the start. The story may be carried forward by one of two methods: straight narrative, where the author tells events in their chronological order, or by a. Series of graphic incidents. The first method has more or less lost its appeal for modern readers. Not more than three or four incidents should be featured in a story of three thousand words. The first, or opening incident, may be told in detail, for by means of it the reader is getting acquainted with the characters; he is getting a picture of the background and the feel of the problem. The first incident makes or breaks the story to a large extent. If it is well done the reader will want to follow through to the end. The following incidents may be given with fewer particulars, for now that we, the readers, are acquainted with the characters and the setting, we can supply some of the details ourselves. The crucial incident, however, the one that climaxes the action, should be specific, but every detail must serve a definite purpose. WE WANT TO WRITE This is true of the details of the entire story. Each incident, made up of detail, should, in a subtle way, hold the threads of the past, portray the present, and foreshadow the future, and should build increasing suspense and interest up to the climax. The