transition from one incident to another should be smooth and convincing, but as short as possible. Time is of the essence in a short story, for in it we have a picture of but one climax from a lifetime. This does not allow for the passage of years. Twenty-four hours is sufficient time for all the action three thousand words can carry. Action covering, in effect, weeks or years can be climaxed in twenty-four hours if the writer works at it. A flashback sentence here and there will take the place of paragraphs. Another way is to cut the beginning. Someone has said, ""We start a story where we - pick up a dog, a little ahead of the middle." Discarding verbiage at the beginning makes for strength. However, one must be certain that all essential details are included in the final version. The reader is quite well satisfied if, when Jane finds she must keep her old Monarch, she can get a new grate and be happy with it. If she gets a new grate and the air of a martyr along with it, that is not so good. Style in stories is strictly an individualistic affair   something a writer acquires as a result of continued writing. Mood, that special feel each story has, is determined largely by the setting and should be compatible with the setting and characters. In our first literature lesson this season Dr. Driggs said, in effect: "History is the record of what men 377 have done; literature ls how they felt about it." In stories we call this emotional appeal, and without it a story is just words, for the purpose of a story is not to expound, or exhort, or preach, but to entertain. We, the readers, want to be entertained through our emotions. On this one thing more than any other factor lies the story's chance of being sold. Editors often overlook weakness in structure and grammar for emotional appeal. On the other hand, many beautifully written stories become duds because they leave the reader asking, "So what?" OW does a writer acquire this appeal and yet not indulge in sentimentality? In all phases of a story a writer must work for a nice balance, but this is doubly true when depicting emotion. Emphasis in the tight place helps to give the desired effect. Place emphasis on character if you want to arouse pity or sympathy; emphasis on setting if you are working for atmosphere; emphasis on plot if it is suspense that is wanted; and emphasis on theme if you are working to change reader attitudes and appreciations. Did you ever hear the verse, "I'd rather see a sermon than hear one any day; I'd rather a man would walk with me than merely point the way"? That is the way most readers feel. Even in a thematic story, we do not make the point by repeating the theme but by the action of the characters. All these things we have been discussing are more or less mechanical and can be learned if the writer is willing to work, but after all of them have been done, there still remains the hard part breathing the breath 378 of life into a story, or, taking our former comparison, keeping the dress from looking homemade. The lines of a dress, harmony between material and style, the exact fitting are factors that give it style or the lack of it. Putting life into a story is largely something that is inborn in a writer and springs from her own personality. Undoubtedly, the General Board of Relief Society, by the yearly contests, hopes to develop writers among the women of the Church. It is a forward-looking project and deserves the appreciation of all who hope to write. However, to make a plain print dress well is not too much of an accomplishment. To take fine material and make a dress that is perfect in fit and a pleasure to the eyes, to add the little touches that set it apart from the ordinary is really an accomplishment. We should produce stories that are works of art. Write and rewrite until every rough and shapeless blemish has been eliminated. Balance your story so carefully that not one sentence, or one word, can be lifted from its place and made to fit in another. What, then, shall we look for in the finished story? There must be characters who have the stamp of individuality, a problem to be solved that requires work and tears, proportion in all things, interest from the first word to the last, and a single emotional appeal. In other words, a story should be a unified dramatic narrative with sufficient significance to make it live again and again in our memories. A good story is not easily forgotten. Bibliography Cox: Indirections for Those Who Want to Write, Bookcraft Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. $2.00. Campbell: Writing For Magazines, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. $2.50. The following books may be obtained from Oldest Writer's Service, Franklin, Ohio: Reeve: Emotional Values in Fiction Writing, soc. Reeve: The Writer's Book, $2.50. Reeve: Twelve Cardinal Elements in Short Story Writing, $1.00. Politi: The Thirty-six Dramatic  Situations, $1.50. The following books may be obtained from Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio: Lardner: How to Write Short Stories, $2.50. Raffelock: Short Story Technique, $1.25. Hoffman: The Writing of Fiction, $3.00. Dowst: Technique of Fiction Writing, $1 7. Writing the Short Short Story, $1.00.