HONEYMOON GARDEN Blanche Kendall McKey My heart all day was a humming bird, - With never a regal song to sing  A sun-mad fay with spirit stirred, A tiny flame on wing. "O gossamer flight, strain not for the blue, Nor reach for the moving sun!" I kissed the buds, a'sheen with dew  The buds and I were one. The breath of the mignonette was mine, The gold of the daffodil; Poor bleeding hearts forgot to pine, And the roving wind stood still. I heard the song of the quickened earth In a trailing rose, arching high, And its gentle lilt, too deep for mirth, Seemed to reach the sky. O silver wings, so soon to fold, How sweet the day, how glad, how free! I could not reach the sun, nor hold, But the sun came down and laughed with me. Pioneer Stories and Incidents IN HANDCART PIONEERS President Amy Brown Lyman [This is the ninth ina series of true pioneer incidents to be published by Thein honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial celebration. Ed.] HE handcart pioneers included not only men and women of faith, courage, and brotherly love, but also youths and even children who, by the manner in which they bore trials and hardships, likewise demonstrated these same qualities. In the Daniel Robinson Company, which crossed the plains in 1860, and was the last but one of the handcart expeditions, there was a little motherless girl of ten years, who courageously shared responsibility with her father in the care of her two little brothers, age eight and Six. She was Isabel Siddoway, who became a much beloved mother in Zion. She married Elder Francis Armstrong, a devoted ~ Latter-day Saint, who later became one of Salt Lake's most successful and prominent business men, and a civic leader, serving two terms as mayor of the city. Mrs. Armstrong was the mother of eleven children and numerous grandchildren who are an honor to their parents. She is represented on the General Board of Relief Society today by a granddaughter, our own Isabel Barton Callister, who is proud to bear the name of this noble ancestor. Robert and Elizabeth Dawson Siddoway, parents of Isabel, lived in North Cumberland, England, where Page 400 they accepted the gospel, and from which place they emigrated to America in 1855. They lived temporarily in the East, where the young mother passed away, leaving the father and the three little children, Isabel, Richard, and Robert, to continue the journey to Zion without her. They left Nebraska June 7, 1860, and arrived in the Valley on September 27. While this was considered one of the most peaceful and successful of such journeys, to little Isabel, who walked nearly every step of the way, it was a severe and trying undertaking. She feared the Indians, wild animals and insects, and was afraid to sleep out in the open. And she had never before known hunger and want. Speaking of her pioneer journey, Mrs. Armstrong in her autobiographical sketch says: The journey being longer than we expected, our clothing, shoes, and provisions grew very scanty long before we reached our destination. Our shoes were so badly worn that at night, after a long day's walk over the rough ground, I would have to pick the pebbles from my little brother's torn and bleeding feet, as well as my own. When we were near Laramie, Wyoming, our provisions grew very short, so much so that each person was rationed to one half pound of flour a day. Sister Hannah Capish, one of the members of our company, had some jewelry she had brought from England with her. She took it to a trading post and exchanged it for seven PIONEER STORIES AND INCIDENTS hundred pounds of flour, which greatly relieved our want until we were met by a relief party at Green River sent out by President Brigham Young with 2500 pounds of flour and 500 pounds of bacon, which lasted until we reached the Valley. We were very fortunate in only having one death during our journey, and that being a little child. After arriving in Salt Lake City, we looked upon the then almost barren country, and compared it to the green fields and comfortable homes we had left in old England. Was it any wonder that we were heartsick and disappointed with our new surroundings! With a little band of people, a scattered house, and a green field here and there, very little to eat and less to wear, the first few years of our homemaking were very trying. But with one aim, and having been driven from place to place on account of our religious belief, which made us almost as united as one large family, this little band of courageous people turned a desert into the beautiful city we now have. Sister Armstrong often remarked, with feeling, that the Mormon pioneers were the most courageous people the world has ever known. Sister Armstrong was the second president of the Daughters of the Handcart Pioneers and served a number of years in that capacity. Ee Kk Emily Wall, a beautiful young girl of fifteen years and her brother Joseph, eighteen, traveled with the Martin Company. 'They had left England with a blessing and a promise that they would both reach Salt Lake Valley. The brother became ill on the way, and the company thought it best that he be left behind. They told the sister he could come on later when he was better. Emily couldn't bear the thought of this. She remembered the promise 401 made to them in England and she offered to pull her brother on her cart if only he would be allowed to go on. Her request was finally granted and, with the aid of a small gitl, she pulled her brother for three days until they reached Devil's Gate. Here the rescuers from Utah met the party. A young man named William Cowley came to her assistance. William was so impressed with this fine, brave, unselfish girl, that he asked her if she would marry him some day. She consented, providing he received her mother's permission. Thus a romance grew out of her misfortune. Three years later, after he had finished a special mission to San Bernardino, William came to hold her to her promise. When she reminded him that she must have her mother's consent, he replied that this he had already received by mail. The marriage took place and they were blessed with thirteen children. In the Martin Company were two Middletons   William and John (the latter only sixteen years old), grandfather and father of Dr. George W. Middleton. Like Dr. Middleton himself, they had hearts of gold and were filled with compassion and tenderness toward women and little children who were walking day after day. This man and boy were in charge of a provision wagon of the company and it was their custom to pick up tired little children and babes from their mothers' arms and give them a ride in the wagon for a rest and change. These kind acts brought relief and refreshment to those weary ones. (Note: The writer is indebted to Mrs. Kate B. Carter, President of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, for the substance of the last two incidents. )