Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1887 "FOR THE RIGHTs OF THE WOMEN of ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women of ALL Nations" THE FIRST OF JUNE: Today, the first of June, is the anniversary of the birth of the late President Brigham Young, one of the greatest and best men that ever lived upon the earth. Brigham Young was born in 1801... He died in 1877.... Brigham Young favored woman's suffrage, believed that women should have the privilege of voting on all questions and held liberal views in regards to the rights of women in the home and elsewhere. He was anxious that the women of Zion should have a paper which should be the exponent of their views upon all important questions of the age, and urged the sisters to give free expression to their sentiments through its columns.  Editorial. ITEMS FROM ENGLAND: As a mother, Queen Victoria has been an example to her subjects and from children the princes and princesses have been taught to be useful, domesticated, and as polite to the lowest members of their mother's household as to the highest. It was said that Princess Alice was ever proud she had been taught to sew, and when in her home in Darmstadt she used to make nearly all her children's dresses.... Leaming is never an encumbrance, we often need it when we have let golden opportunities pass. As a Queen our Sovereign has never been excelled, and to her credit be it said she has kept her court the most refined, pure, and cultivated in the whole world. Marion. THOUGHTS ON MY WEDDING ANNIVERSARY: Do we wish our dearest earthly treasures to go forth into the cold world with no pleasant reflections of their early home... On this day so many things of the past have come up in my memory.... And I have been asking how well I have performed my duties as a wife and mother in Zion.... Is not the mother a guiding star of the daughter, and can the son be censured if he follows in the footsteps of his father? God help our children and have mercy on us as parents if we place not purity and truth before them. V. O. Shady bowers, restful hours, Fill our hearts with love! In heartfelt praise, our voices raise To One who dwells above. Zephyrs sighing, day is dying, Footsteps homeward roam. In this way we passed a day Near our mountain home.  May L. Marler FROM APACHE COUNTY, ARIZONA: I would advise all to lay by such articles as they need.... Needles, pins, buttons, thimbles, thread, wool cards, bleached muslin, linen, and all needful things; we had better prepare such things and not need them, than to need them and not be able to get them.  M. B. NEWS NOTE: Mrs. Polk, widow of President Polk, keeps her health and memory at the age of four score and more.   HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY: Never purchase anything too costly to correspond with your belongings, as it will only create a desire for more to match it... Make what you have look as nice as you can. C. E. W. Page 402