Instructions to Magazine Representatives and Subscribers Orders should be legibly written, preferably in ink or typewritten. Names, streets, and cities should be spelled correctly. Street numbers should be accurate, not "about".. Correct city and state should be given. Many times there are cities by the same name in more than one state. Subscriptions should be renewed in the same name as the original subscription. Confusion is caused when a subscription is sent in the individual's given name one year and in her husband's name the next year.. When there is more than one subscriber by the same name in a ward some further identification should be used, a middle initial, etc. 'This is especially true in a small town where there are no street addresses. Subscribers should immediately notify the General Board of a change of address. 'The post office does not forward Magazines unless postage is sent and the post office does not return Magazines to the General Board. Subscribers many times miss numbers of the Magazine due to their failure to notify the General Board of change of address. The former address must always accompany the new address. Subscribers should notify the General Board within a month any failure to receive their Magazine.. After July 1, the General Board will be unable to furnish any back numbers. Therefore, all subscriptions must reach the office of the General Board at least a month in advance of expiration. Hereafter, it will not be possible to obtain the July issue in which the previews and the first lessons appear after the month of July. Only the current issue will be furnished. It is suggested that a subscription be taken in the name of the ward and stake Relief Societies for the purpose of binding. The name of the ward and stake must appear on all orders. Lists should be carefully checked to see that money remitted and the names listed on the order agree. Money order or check is the best method of remittance. Magazine representatives are advised against remitting currency. Representatives are permitted to deduct the cost of money orders, but no deduction should be made when personal check is used by the representative. It is suggested that a Magazine representative keep a copy of each order so that mistakes may be better understood and corrected. Magazine representatives are advised that all subscriptions sent to the General Board or after July 1, 1947 are to be charged for at the increased rate of $1.50 per year. All subscriptions received at the General Board office which are post-office dated on or before June 30, 1947 will require only the $1 rate. Page 405