[Vol21 | October 1934 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic (November, 1934) ARMISTICE DAY "It is out of sacrifice and suffering that the greatest things in life grow."'?Marshal Foch. The 11th of November, Armistice Day, should be made sacred throughout the world, for it is the anniversary of the end of the greatest conflict in history.
After four years of war, with its unspeakable horrors and sorrows, emissaries of the principal nations involved, in council assembled in the forest of Campiegne, reached terms of peace, and the Armistice was signed on the eleventh of November, 1918.
This act marks one of the most stupendous achievements in human experience. On that day the work of the soldier was completed, and the diplomat began, all with the hope and belief that this would forever end war. The full text of the Armistice consisted of 36 sections, the first of which read, "cessation of operations by land and in the air six hours after the signature of the Armistice." The Armistice was signed at 5 o'clock, French time, and hostilities ceased at 11 a. M. France, Britain and Germany were represented by appointed officials. Admiral Sims, of the American Navy was present unofficially. The German delegation 628 had been advised by President Wilson that Marshal Foch was qualified to communicate the Allies' conditions. The word that the Armistice was signed was the signal for such rejoicing as the world has never known before or since: sounding of sirens and whistles, ringing of bells and shouting from myriads of voices of men, women and children throughout all the streets of all cities in the civilized world. In commemoration of that day we pay tribute and respect to those who never returned, to those who returned crippled and maimed and gassed and shellshocked, and to those who witnessed the cruelties of war and were permitted through the grace of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a kind Providence to return sound in mind and body to their native land and homes. As each succeeding November brings another anniversary, let us remember the supreme need of justice in the relations of men and nations, and give our best efforts to the establishment of Peace, not forgetting those who died with the firm faith that their sacrifice was to end war.. 'On every November eleventh, at eleven o'clock, let us pause in the day's busy hum, with a silent prayer and remember: "In this drift of after years To pay honor with our tears, They dared to die, let us who live Dare to have pity and forgive."