[Vol21 | October 1934 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature LIFE AND LITERATURE]

Literature LIFE AND LITERATURE (Third Week in December) THE NOVEL A SOCIAL RECORD "The old order changeth, yielding place to new, And God fulfills Himself in many ways, Lest one good custom should corrupt the world." ?Tennyson. Man's world is a changing world, a world of institutions. Exploration, conquest, and dominion have determined Man's national environment; wealth, science, and invention have created his social environment.
Through the ages the social, economic, and spiritual horizons of the world have changed continually. For the benefit of mankind institutions, religion, marriage, the law have been organized. The measure of civilization lies in the opportunities it provides Man for his highest development. As the truths of life become known, society must change, nobler modes of life must replace "the wars of old," "the ancient forms of party strife," "the lust of Gold." Man, as his brother's keeper, must assume his responsibility as the master of his world, Society. John Galsworthy, Contemporary Novelist John Galsworthy, one of the most famous of contemporary English novelists, is known for his deep concern with the problems of modern society.
Born of a cultured and prosperous Devonshire family, he had every advantage that position and wealth could bring a talented son. He was educated at the famous schools of Harrow and Oxford. He did not follow the profession of law when called to the bar in 1890; instead he traveled in Russia, the Orient, Australia, North and South LESSON DEPARTMENT America, studying the many and varied economic, social, and spiritual horizons of the world. His first literary work appeared in 1898 and his last work was published in 1933 shortly after his death. Few contemporary authors have so enthusiastic a group of admirers as John Galsworthy. He is notable for his novels, his short stories, his essays, and his plays.
Looking at life steadily and understandingly, his writings all have social significance. His principal novels are those in which he analyzes middle-class life in England; his dramas deal with the inequalities in the political and social life of the humblest laboring classes; his essays are thoughtful discussions of social problems. All his works constitute a critical and dignified portrayal of contemporary life. His writing is marked by dramatic intensity in story telling, vivid characterization, and a charming style. His appeal is widespread to readers in the United States, and the British commonwealth. The chief works have been translated into French and German.
Shortly before his death, Galsworthy was awarded the Nobel Prize, giving him recognition as one of the major men-ofletters of the age.
Galsworthy is better understood when one knows his theory of art. "Art is the one form of human energy which works for union' and destroys the barriers between man and man. It is the continual, unconscious replacement of one self by another." The service which literature is coming more and more to render is bringing about a better human understanding.
Galsworthy is known for his passionate love of justice, and his penetrating analysis of the problems of religion and marriage in a world of rapidly changing -social and spiritual horizons. The Pharisee is his target. The Pharisee conforms 629 strictly to the letter of outworn laws and antiquated ideas concerning education, marriage, religion, government, crime and its punishment, and the distribution of property. Individual Phariseeism is "'a blind spot in which no one can see himself." The vehicle of Phariseeism, Galsworthy sees as the middle-class family, the family of property. To carry his criticism of contemporary life Galsworthy created "The Forsyte Saga." The Forsytes are "the middle-class men of property, the pillars of society, the corner stones of convention."
Individualism in the last century had brought them property and wealth.
Admirable business qualities, fortunate investments, farsighted marriages, had made them men of property. As such they have no interests outside their family; they keep out a vision of spiritual values; they have no charity for the unfortunate.
Galsworthy saw them at the close of the Victorian Era, the battle over, at ease at the top of the ladder. Galsworthy, born a Forsyte with a silver spoon in his mouth was intimately acquainted with the society he portrayed in "The Forsyte Saga." Galsworthy's greatest critic, St. John Ervine, says of him: "As one looked at Galsworthy's sensitive face he was aware of tightened lips,?But the lips were not tightened because of things done to him but of things done to others." It is natural then that John Galsworthy is a satirist. The test of a satirist is the worthiness of his purpose and the geniality of his spirit. The ingredients of satire ar? humor and criticism. Galsworthy's ironic insight into life saw the shortcomings of modern society.
Fearlessly he attacked the shortcomings of his own class and sympathetically he portrayed human wrongs. He preserved a nice balance between humor and criticism; never do we 630 hear the swish of the satirist's broom, and never is his laughter too loud. If it is the supreme virtue of the novelist to create "the illusion of life," we acknowledge this power of Galsworthy, for in his novels we do find the illusion of life.
From his wisdom we are able to select many a choice fragment to carry along as we further meditate upon the illusion: "We are all little bits of continuity. To despise one another is to deny continuity, and to deny continuity is to deny eternity." "The modern spirit is to understand and to forgive." "Be kind, keep up your end?that's all." The Forsyte Chronicles "The Forsyte Saga" is a series of chronicles of a well-to-do English family through several generations. The first series of the Saga consists of three novels "The Man of Property," "In Chancery," and "To Let;" and two short stories, "The Indian Summer of a Forsyte," and "The Awakening." It is a record of Soames Forsyte and his family.
Life to the Forsytes was a series of family festivals, births, betrothals, marriages and funerals?no member ever doing anything that was not known to the rest. The outstanding characters of the family are Soames Forsyte and his daughter Fleur. Soames Forsyte is a man of property during the late Victorian period. He adds lands, pictures, and a wife to his already large fortune. Irene, the wife, discovers that she is merely an investment.
When she requests her freedom, it is denied.
Then she meets and loves Bosinney, an architect. Bosinney's way out is suicide.
After several years Galsworthy waked the Forsytes out of silence in a second series of chronicles, 'The Modern Comedy" which includes "The White Monkey," "The Silver Spoon," "The Swan Song," novels, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and "A Silent Wooing," "Passers By," interludes, is a record of a new age, a post-war generation. It deals with the general disillusionment that succeeded the World War.
Cynicism is the prevailing fashion. The young Forsytes are careless of property, they have what they want and they do as they please regardless of fathers and fathers-in-law. The concluding series of the Forsyte chronicles includes "The Maid in Waiting," "The Flowering Wilderness," and "One More River." In these novels Galsworthy records his poignant interest in a complex problem of modern life, marriage. "The Flowering Wilderness" is considered to be the best novel of Galsworthy's last series. It is evident, however, that the last two novels are inseparable, for in them the author expresses his ripe wisdom and philosophy on life's most serious problem, marriage. The world of Galsworthy's novels is like our own. The author has interpreted its meaning more clearly because of his greater insight, and its beauty and truth are more greatly enhanced because of his artistic imagination. "Who comes away from such a world to the more ordinary paths of daily living will be a bit surer of his own way, a bit more understanding of his neighbor, a little readier and more glad to suffer and to share life's pleasures and life's pains." Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Contemporary Novelist Dorothy Canfield Fisher, an important figure in American fiction, is a doctor of philosophy, mistress of six languages, lecturer, author of many books, member of the board of education. Of Vermont, and the mother of two children.
Experiences varied and rich have LESSON DEPARTMENT prepared Mrs.
Fisher to be an exponent of the fine art of living. She was born at Lawrence, Kansas, 1879, where her father was the president of the University of Kansas. When Mr.
Canfield became librarian at Columbia University, his daughter became a student specializing in Romance languages.
Dorothy spent much of her early life abroad with her mother, a talented artist and musician, in the Latin quarter of Paris and in French convent schools.
After her marriage to John Redwood Fisher, writer and critic, in 1907, a year was spent in study in Italy and another in Norway.
While in Italy Mrs.
Fisher was selected by the American publishers to be the translator of Madame Montessori's book on education. Later Mrs.
Fisher produced "A Montessori Mother," a simplification and adaptation of the Italian system of kindergarten education adapted to the needs of American mothers.
Following this interest in education Mrs.
Fisher later wrote "Mothers and Children" and "Learn or Perish" a series of essays on the problem of education. The Fishers made their home on a farm in the small Vermont village of Arlington. Two volumes of stories on Vermont life were written by Dorothy Canfield. A wellworn path leads up the mountain to the "Fishers," because the women of the village see her as a neighbor who understands and helps them.
France was the second home of the Fishers. It was not strange then that in 1915 they went to France to do their share. Mr.
Fisher directed a training camp for ambulance drivers; Mrs.
Fisher did all kinds of relief work, her home in France was a refuge for children in need of care and shelter.
During this intense period she wrote some of her finest work, "Home Fires in France' and "The Day of Glory," stories of those 631
French women and some Americans who quietly and steadily carried on holding life together until the war should cease. The income from these stories and previous work was spent by the Fishers in their relief work, because they knew and loved France. Returning home in 1919, normal life on the Vermont farm began again. Dorothy Canfield continued to write essays, stories, novels. Her best novels are: "The Bent Twig," revealing the life in the university town of her childhood; "The Brimming Cup," a vivid picture of Vermont life; "Her Son's Wife," the story of a widow school-teacher whose son brings home a wife the exact opposite of everything she has liked and approved; "The Deepening Stream," the deepening experience of a normal woman after marriage; "Bonfire," 1933, is a dramatic story of love and marriage in a Vermont village. Dorothy Canfield Fisher is one of a succession of women novelists, warm-hearted, courageous women interested in life. From out of her abundant living, Dorothy Canfield Fisher has gained a comprehension of the values of life. A dynamic personality, she has held out both hands to life, gaining a superb ability to portray the average life vividly and honestly. Intensely enthusiastic over the significance of human relationships, she makes this problem the subject of her novels. The gallery of children in her novels are very human little persons, intensely real. Her women are gracious lov'able individuals, many of them real creations. As an educator Mrs. Fisher is a frequent contributor to French periodicals as well as to the principal American magazines. As a literary critic she has received recognition through her appointment to the board of five judges of the Book of the Month Club of the 

  United States. Dorothy Canfield Fisher's greatest role, however, is that of a teacher, a helper, a friend, because she has made the plain word "service" a shining symbolical thing. "The Deepening Stream"' "The Deepening Stream" follows the current of an ordinary, average unsensational life, the life of an inherently fine woman, Matey Gilbert.
From a lonely child of four she develops into a mature self-reliant woman, whose understanding of the meaning of life deepens with the years.
Many times during her life she is brought face to face with the truth?"Life does not mean what you think, there is more." Matey Gilbert at the age of four began to puzzle over the mystery of remembering. The surprising appearance of a tulip in the garden, the lonely night vigil when lost in the woods with her brother and sister, the battered desk in the cheerless first schoolroom, her mother's obsession for dramatic activities, her father's manner of poking fun, half scolding and half teasing were stored in the dark hole of Matey's childhood memory. Professor Gilbert takes his family to Paris a second time. Mrs. Gilbert, impatient and restless, turns Matey to the care of Madame Vinet, a music teacher. The Vinet household is a wholesome place for the lonely child, there she enjoys the companionship of children her own age.
Upon the return of the Gilbert family to their own country, life goes on much as before, Matey sees life as it lies nearest to her. Father, mother, sister, brother, each follow their own interests.
Misunderstandings and family quarrels are the result.
Matey never could understand Priscilla's grown-upness. Mother's social and civic consciousness, father's ironic comments about his colleagues.
There came a simple accident, a brief illness, and Matey's father was dead. As she heard her father plead, "Jessica! Don't go away!" and her mother answer tenderly, "No, Morris dear, I won't leave you," it came to her, a new knowledge?"Why in some way of their own, Father and Mother, they belonged to each other, and knew it."
Matey had not understood all these years, all her childhood had been shadowed and chilled by her lack of understanding of her family. As if defending herself from a terrible reproach Matey cried out, "Life does not mean what you think, there is more." A 'few years pass and Matey, her mother dead, goes to the little Quaker village of Rustdorf to receive a legacy left to her by her father's cousin. A long visit to the new found relatives of her father saw at its close Matey's engagement to Adrian Fort, the honest staid son of the banker of Rustdorf.
Priscilla received with consternation the news of her sister's intended marriage while in Italy where she was chaperoning a party of American girls. When Priscilla and Matey met, later, the long-awaited freedom to speak as they felt came for the first time.
Priscilla and Francis, not understanding their sister's choice of a lover urge her to reconsider the matter.
Matey married Adrian and a wedding trip was taken to Europe. The meeting with Madame Vinet and her family was a joy to Matey; Adrian's pleasure came in visiting the art galleries he had dreamed of so long.
Life at Rustdorf was uneventful and bare in many ways.
Matey learned the sterling values of the many quaint lives of the community.
After several summers Priscilla, tired with the strain of her teaching activities, came to spend the summer with Matey.
Into the life of the LESSON DEPARTMENT village she fitted with surprising ease. At the end of a second summer's visit, Priscilla found a home as mother to the children of an old friend of Adrian's father. At first Matey resented Priscilla's marriage, but later she understood the beauty of her sister's love.
Matey again had to admit she did not understand all of life's values.
Complacent and secure, Matey continued for many years in her life as wife and mother, accepting love as a gift and homage as a duty.
Then came news of the World War shattering the poise of mankind.
Matey and Adrian waited anxiously for news of their friends in France.
After several months the Forts decided to go to France.
Matey and the children went to stay with Madame Vinet; Adrian went to the front to serve as an ambulance driver. The days were busy and anxious ones.
Furloughs were eagerly awaited. The tragedy of war is a tragedy of shaken faith.
Adrian returned from the fighting lines with his faith in the human race shattered.
Little by little the tiny fortune left to Matey by cousin Constance was used to. Aid suffering and distress. At last the war was over and the cry for home issued from many hearts.
Matey and her little band were soon homeward bound.
Home at last; loved ones waiting had the table laid for supper. So life was picked up again by all.
Matey slowly realized her task, the re-creation of Adrain's faith in the world. The war, a mistake of men, was not all, there was more. It was the lesson she had learned about her Father and Mother. He must 633 know "'there is no small or great in what was true." By his side at work and play she must stand. The belonging together was the tie that would stand up even in the face of death. In all her works Dorothy Canfield gives expression to the truth: "The medium for the communication of the Spirit is not words but Life."
Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Litterature, Macy, Chapters 35, 47. 2. "The Flowering Wilderness," Galsworthy. "One More River," Galsworthy. 3. "The Deepening Stream," Fisher. B. Program: 1. Reading: Selection "Home Fires in France," Fisher. 2. Discussion: a. The Novel a Social Record. B. John Galsworthy, Novelist. C. Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Mother and Author. 3. Review: a. "The Flowering Wilderness" or b. "The Deepening Stream." C. Objective: The lesson is planned to present the contemporary novel as a social record. Editor's Note: "The Flowering Wilderness" or 'The Deepening Stream" may be used. It is not intended that both novels shall be reviewed in detail.