[Vol21 | October 1934 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson Department]
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Senior and Junior Genealogical Classes

Lesson 2. (December, 1934)

JESUS THE CHRIST

1. The Eternal Christ. The Savior of the world is not merely the Jesus of Nazareth who was born in Bethlehem of Judea and who lived and died in Palestine. He is the eternal Christ, who was "in the beginning with God," and who "was God." (John 1:1). Long before the foundations of this earth were laid, he was chosen to be the Redeemer of mankind. The Apostle Peter, speaking of him, said: "Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you." (1 Peter 1:20). And the Apostle John, in vision, "saw the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world." (Rev. 13:8).

2. The Creator. Not only was Christ "in the beginning with God," but "all things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made." (John 1:3). The Apostle Paul confirms this truth, saying: "For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him: And he is before all things, and by him all things consist." (Col. 1:16-17). In modern revelation the Savior speaks of himself as "the Beginning and the End, the Almighty God; by mine Only Begotten I created these things; yea, in the beginning I created the heaven, and the earth upon which thou standest." (Moses 2:1).

3. The Pre-existent Christ. Before his birth in the flesh, Christ appeared to many of the ancient prophets. He walked and talked with Adam in the Garden of Eden. (Gen. 3:8-21). He appeared to Enoch and revealed to him the plan of salvation. (Moses 7:47). He made covenants with Noah, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He appeared to Moses in the burning bush and later gave him the law from Mount Sinai. He was the "angel of the Lord" who appeared to many of the prophets of Israel.

4. The Brother of Jared saw him in his spirit body and was told: "Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh." (Ether 3:16).

5. The Condescension of God. The coming of the Son of God to earth to take upon himself a mortal body and to live among men as one of them was spoken of by the angel as "the condescension of God." (1 Nephi 11:16). The Master says of himself: "Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, who created the heavens and the earth." (D. and C. 14:9).

6. Concerning the manner in which the work of creation was accomplished, the Psalmist says: "By the word of the Lord were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. * * * For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast." (Psal. 33:6-9). Jacob, the Nephite prophet, argues thus: "The earth was created by the power of his word. Wherefore, if God being able to speak and the world was, and to speak and man was created, O then, why not able to command the earth, as the workmanship of his hands upon the face of it, according to his will and pleasure?" (Jacob 4:9). In further explanation of this matter the Master himself says: "For by the power of my Spirit created I them; yea, all things both spiritual and temporal." (D. and C. 29:31).

7. It should not be understood from the foregoing that the heavens and the earth were created out of nothing or that the processes commonly designated as natural law played no part therein. On the contrary, the fundamental materials of nature are eternal (D. and C. 93:33), and therefore cannot be created or destroyed. The highly elucidating statement that follows is accredited to Joseph the prophet: "The elements are eternal. That which has a beginning will surely have an end; take a ring, it is without beginning or end—cut it for a beginning place and at the same time you have an ending place." Again, "This earth was organized or formed out of other planets which were broken up and remodeled and made into the one on which we now live." (Compendium, p. 287). The last of the foregoing statement is of especial interest, since it negates the widespread sectarian notion that the earth was created out of nothing.

8. Moreover, as indicated above, it should not be understood that Deity disregarded the laws of nature in his work of creation. On the contrary Deity has plainly announced himself as the giver of the laws by which nature is operated. Speaking "Of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things," the Lord says: "He hath given a law unto all things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; and their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets. * * * The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the power of God." Then apparently in a supreme effort to impress man with the fact that he is not only the ruler of the universe but that its operations are a manifestation of his power, the Lord says: "Unto what shall I liken these kingdoms, that ye may understand, Behold, all these are kingdoms, and any man who hath seen any or the least of these hath seen God moving in his majesty and power." (D. and C. 88:42-47).

9. Natural law, therefore, is not to be regarded as distinct and separate from the laws of God. Indeed, the laws of nature are God-given, and therefore, are all his laws. Moreover, their manifestations are his manifestations; their works are his works; and their accomplishments are his accomplishments. Thus understood, the laws of nature become sacred to us, for their operations are literally the operations of God. Little wonder, then that Mormonism is said to include all truth, irrespective of its source—whether it comes from the voice of the prophet or the record of the rocks, from the written word of God or the planet hurling through space, from the raging torrent or the sub-microscopic organism. All are a manifestation of God's power.

10. With these points in mind, it is not difficult for the Latter-day Saint to believe that when God created the earth he did so by calling into operation natural law, which of course, is his law, and over which he exercises control. (Read again D. and C. 88:34-50). Jesus is thus the master of all, the organizer of heaven and earth. Nothing is beyond his power or outside the realm of his control. Not only the winds and waves obey his will, but everything in the universe, temporal and spiritual, visible and invisible. Truly with power such as this, he merely commanded and the work was done.
