L. D. S. Hospital is the first hospital to open its doors for a short time course for nurses' aids. 
 Miss Charlotte Dancy, the superintendent of nurses at the L. D. S. Hospital, has generously offered to introduce this course in face of the many difficulties which she will no doubt encounter. She will be assisted by Mrs. Thea Drake, who will be in immediate charge of the course, and who will reside in the Nurses' Aids Home. ? The history of the Nurse School work, as associated with the women of this Church, has an ancient and honorable origin. We find in the "Manuscript History of the Church" the following notation from a council meeting held in Winter Quarters, August, 1846: Brigham Young said:  intend to propose to the Council of this Church to have some way devised to instruct this people concerning the organization of the human system, and how to care for it." President Young, on his entrance into the Valley, lost no time in putting his plan into active operation. The fort was built in 1847, and President Young called upon Dr. Willard Richards, who was his own cousin and was the son of a physician. Dr. Levi Richards, to establish a Council of Health. Dr. Richards had married an English nurse, Susannah Liptrot, as one of his wives. This lady had received as good a training as was offered in England at that day, and she assisted her husband in giving lectures to the women of the Council, on obstetrics, nursing and child care. That this Council of Health was a power for good in the community is evidenced by the strict hygienic regulations inculcated in the establishment of Salt Lake City itself and surrounding towns and villages. - An interesting sidelight on the activities of the Council is evidenced in the following letter: Wednesday, Nov. 26, 1851. Brother Kimball:   It is anticipated that our president, Brigham Young, will address the Council of Health, physicians, surgeons, midwives, and nurses of the city, at school house, Ward 14, at one o'clock p. m., this day. Believing you would feel interested, I take the liberty to send you this notice, and respectfully solicit your attendance. Your most humble servant, WILLARD RICHARDS. President   Heber C. Kimball. Nor were the labors of this Council concerned only with teaching and study. We discover from the following extract that picnics and parties were also a part of the Council procedure. How quaint the wording of this report and how delightful the literary atmosphere. Our own president. L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 377 Emmeline B. Wells, was a member of this Council and attended the lessons and classes with a baby in her arms: From "Millennial Star," Saturday, September 18, 1852. "Arrival of Mails from the Great Salt Lake Valley.   We have received Deseret News to the 26th of June, letters, etc., from the Salt Lake Valley." "The Council of Health assembles frequently. Members continually increasing. The Deseret News remarks:   'An increased desire for the promotion of health is manifest, particularly among the ladies of the Council;  and propositions are now up for improving the fashions in dress, which will tend not only to health, but happiness, comfort, ease, beauty, and everything that is delightful in female economy, and gentility. * * * Three specimens of ladies' and misses' hats worn on the occasion. * * * Great exertions are made by the sisters to prepare themselves to nurse each other   the entire accomplishment of which is most desirable, and every good man will lend his influence and aid to accomplish this object, regardless alike of personal aggrandizement, and pockets full of gold. "The members of the Council, together with many of the citizens, left Salt Lake City on the 16th of June, and held a picnic on the top of Ensign Hill, where they were addressed by Patriarch John Young and James W. Cummings. "The Council of Health was established to devise ways and means to prevent disease, etc., and for preparing and administering of herbs and mild foods to the sick, according to the holy commandments of God." Occasional lectures and classes were given on the subject of nursing and hygiene, even after the untimely death of Dr. Willard Richards, in 1854, during the years that elapsed between those pioneer days and 1872, but we had no woman's paper during those years and the minutes 'of such gatherings and classes have not been preserved. We turn to the pages of the wonderful woman's chronicle, the "Exponent" and on August 1, 1872, we have an account of a physiological class organized by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball. Occasional articles and notices were published, and in 1873, the class met for study twice a week in the Social Hall. July 15, 1873, President Brigham Young issued a request to the presidents of Relief Societies throughout the Church to appoint three women from each ward to study hygiene and nursing. He also proposed to the bishops of each ward to see to it that these students should be supported by the ward during the term of study. September 1, 1873, an eastern graduate physician, Dr. Mary H. Barker, opened a school for obstetrics and many of the leading women of the Church attended her classes. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who had acted as a pioneer midwife for many years, was a graduate of this class and became instructor thereof after the return of Dr. Barker to the east, three years later. Among our leading women, who graduated from this 
 pioneer obstetric class, was Sisters Julina L. Smith and Edna L. Smith. They received certificates from Dr. Barker and one from Dr. Joseph Richards testifying to their qualification and graduation. For many j-ears Sister Julina was a practicing mid-wife in her husband's family, among her neighbors, at home and in the Sandwich Islands, as well as assisting in many a home where skilled help was needed and loving ministration was welcome. President Eliza R. Snow took an active interest in all of this work. She was a practical nurse herself, and with all her strenuous public labors, she, together with her close associate, our lovely Aunt Zina D. H. Young, spent many hours and days at the bedside of suffering and death. Sister Snow was anxious to carry out the wishes of President Young in training women for active medical practice amongst their own sex and with the children. In 1873 Romania Bunnell (Penrose) left Utah and entered the Women's Medical College in Philadelphia, where she remained until her graduation in March, 1877. She was the first graduated woman physician of the west;  and she became an inspiration and pillar of strength in her chosen field on her return to Zion, where she immediately began her brilliant career. On November 1, 1877, Dr. Penrose opened a school of obstetrics and thereafter, for twenty-eight years, she taught two classes a year, except when absent for special post-graduate in the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary in 1881-82. Other able and brilliant young women followed in Dr. Penrose's footsteps. In 1878, Dr. ElHs R. Shipp graduated in the same Pennsylvania college and opened her office in Utah for active practice. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, not a native of Utah, but an able physician, opened offices here in 1878. In 1883, Dr. Mattie Paul Hughes (Cannon) graduated in the medical college in Philadelphia. Dr. E. S. Barney, who graduated in 1883, Dr. Belle Anderson (Gemmel), who graduated in 1884, and Dr. Lizzie Shipp, who graduated in 1885, Dr. Mary Van Schoonhoven, who graduated from Ann Arbor in 1891, and later Dr. Julia Ivins McDonald and Dr. Jane W. K. Skolfield, who graduated in 1907 from Denver Medical College. All of these physicians were actively engaged, not only in their profession, but several of them in teaching obstetrics and nurse work. Dr. Lizzie Shipp brought up her obstetric class, from Fillmore, to Salt Lake City, in 1885, for graduation exercises. In July, 1879, we find Dr. Romania B. Penrose advocating the establishment of a Woman's Hospital here in Utah. A little later Sister E. R. Snow and her board, reported favorably on the project. On August 1, 1882, the Deseret Hospital L. D. S. R. S. CLASS FOR TRAINING NURSES' AIDS 379 was established with Dr. Penrose as a member of the staff. The following items concerning the wonderful work done by the Deseret Hospital clearly indicates its broad scope and inspired leadership: The officers of the Deseret Hospital Association were: President, E. R. Snow;  vice president, Zina D. Young;  executive board, l. Isabella Home, Alarinda N. Hyde, Phoebe Woodruff, Bathshebe W.