[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | January | Issue: 11 | Title: SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Hall, Dec. 2nd, 1893, President Z. D. H.
Young presiding. Sang “O, my Father,”
prayer by Sister L. D. Alder, continued by
singing “Welcome best of all good meet-
ings” &c. Minutes of last meeting read
and approved. President Young gave in-
structions concerning some of the studies
given in the Temple. Desired the sisters
to take in their order the lectures on Faith
in the Doctrine and Covenants which give
an account of the descent of the Priesthood
on the earth asked the sisters to teach these
things to their children President Young
then desired Sister L. D. Alder to read the
Second Lecture on Faith in the Doc. and
Cov. which contains an account of the
inhabitants of the earth and their works,
lecture read down to the time of the flood.
	Counselor Stevenson then spoke con-
cerning meeting from time to time, thought
it necessary to educate us, and keep alive
the desire in our hearts to serve God, said
we should be charitable one toward
another, and merciful, and remember that it
is great to be a judge, made other remarks.
	Sister M. E. Kimball, bore her testimony
thought it quite plain that a Latterday
prophet was as necessary, to usher in this
dispensation as was John the Baptist to
proclaim the coming of the Savior. Spoke
of some of her early experiences, and gave
other good instructions. Sisters Annie
Wheeler, Larsen, Williams, Irvine,  Bar-
row and Mair each bore a faithful
testimony to the Latter-day work.
	Counselor E. Stevenson and Sister
Brown added some further remarks upon
the faith of the Gospel. President Young
spoke of Sister Julia McDonald desiring
that wonderful instances of healing and
miracles performed in this day be sent to 
her as she was making a book of them.
	Her address is St. George Utah.
	President Young testified that President
B. Young established these meetings and
she thought they were beautiful and would 
be a light to our souls.


Announced the Quarterly Conference to
meet in this Hall, Friday, Dec. 15th, 1893.
The meeting stood adjourned for four
weeks. Benediction by Sister Steele.
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


[Column 1]
	MINUTES of the Ladies’ meeting held in
the 14th, Ward Assembly Hall Dec. 30,
1893, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O, happy
souls who pray”&c. Prayer by Sister
Mary A. Lambert. Continued by singing
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved. Minutes of the Annual Meeting
of the Primary of the 17th Ward, read by
Mabel Davis.
	President M. I. Horne said she had been
highly edified by hearing the minutes of
the Primary. Thought we had all been
instructed by them. Said we had a religion
that we should practice every day of our
lives. It was not enough to believe, but
that we should put in practice that belief
thought there was much had been done at
our late Conference. Business had crowded
so that she could not hardly get through
with it, and a little item now of business
that she had intended to bring before the
Conference was forgotten. She then stated
that so many of the sisters were working in
the Temple and she needed help, in visiting
the different branches and in other things
had talked to the sisters and to President
Zina D. H. Young, and had decided to call
to her aid. Sister Julia C. Howe and
Lydia D. Alder and said “We will put
them before our next Conference. They
have already traveled some, and al-
ways been ready and willing.”
	The motion to sustain these sisters as
aids to President Horne, was then put by
Counselor E. Stevenson. The vote was
unanimous. President Horne read a note
from the Salt Lake Temple Lithographing
Co. making a proposition to the Relief
Society to sell the picture of the Temple on
commission. President Horne thought the
offer a very fair one, and as we had three
months in which to canvas, thought we
might get some means for the poor in this
way. Ten Relief Society Presidents, who
were present agreed to try and do the best
they could in their respective Wards.
President Horne then called on Sister Julia
C. Howe to state how she felt concerning
the call to aid her.
	Sister Howe said, “I believe it is
customary for the brethren to express their
feelings in such cases, and thought it was
right so to do, I always felt that I did not
wish to be a drone in the hive of Deseret.
	My experience has taught me that it is-
not the mighty or educated alone who can
do the most good, but those who are will-
ing to be laborers in the vineyard. I feel to
sustain all those who are called to instruct
and go from place to place. I bear my
testimony to the good done in these meet-
ings, and much will be required of those
who have these opportunities of instruction.
I feel that this duty to which I am called
will be a pleasure, and desire to do all I
can. Sister Howe also spoke on Charity,
explained its meaning, and gave other
good instructions.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, being next called
said, “I feel my weakness as I stand before
you sisters, yet my desire is to do all the good
I can, and help to build up God’s Church
and Kingdom on the earth. I believe I
live my religion better than ever I did, al-


[Column 2]
so appreciate the Book of Mormon more
than ever. Read it my sisters, its beautiful
testimony of the Savior to come, and
after he came on earth, and so many other
beautiful things will help you bear your
darkest hour. I have been promised that
I should meet my Saviour in our glorious
Temple that he would take me by the hand
and tell me why I have had to walk the
thorny pathway why I had such great sor-
rows, and shed so many bitter tears. Also that
He will own me and bless me. This is the
glorious day that I am living for’ let us all
strive sisters and keep these great blessings
in view. My life is on the altar, and after
my family are raised I have been promised
that I should do a great work, I feel to
respond to the call President Horne has
made upon me, and will do all I can to
assist her, and God’s work in the earth;
bore her testimony to the same.
	Sister Gardner of Pine Valley said,
“I was born and raised in this Church, and
desire to do good while I live upon the
earth. Spoke of a promise that had been
given her,when a babe in her father’s arms
namely that she would live to see the com-
ing of the Redeemer, gave an account of
the different organizations in Pine Valley,
bore a faithful testimony to the work in
which we are engaged and desired to be
faithful to the end.
	Sister Hudson of Spring City also bore
her testimony, Sister M. Y. Dougall spoke
on Charity, said it was the love we bore
the human family, urged the sisters to
strive for the spirit of the Lord, and be
faithful in all our callings and especially be
constant in our prayers, desired that we might
all meet in the celestial Kingdom.
	Sister Mary Silver and a sister in the
congregation were thankful that they
were members of the Church and desired
to do good.
	President Horne then asked the sisters if
they had not received good and been blest
in these meetings. “Here our spirits
are fed, and feel a refreshing from the Lord.
Joseph Smith was a great and a chosen
prophet. I am glad that I knew him, and
heard his voice. I rejoice that I live in
this dispensation, when so much has been
revealed and so much more is to be revealed,
I have been reading over my Patriarchial
blessings, for I have been so tried and beset
this year. I find that each one tells me,
that Satan has desired to sift me, and hedge
up my way, but I am promised that I shall
conquer that in so much as I had em-
braced the Gospel with an honest heart, if
sto[-]d true to my convictions, I should be
brought safe through; I have had so many
trials this year but I have been promised to
over come.
	Jesus said to those who overcome, he
would give them to sit down in his Father’s
kingdom, I feel that the last year has been
such an eventful one in our history. God
is working in His own way and time, I
think soon we shall see a great crisis.
	President Horne spoke of the good done at
the World’s Fair, of the Congress of women,
the visit of the choir, and many other
things, and closed by wishing us all a
Happy New Year, and adding her blessing
to all the sisters.
	Sisters Kiddle, Palmer, Price and Jane
James each spoke of the good received at
these meetings.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks
Sang “Satan’s Empire long has flourished
Benediction by Counselor E. Stevenson.
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


