[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | January | Issue: 11 | Title: A REVERIE. | Author: Unknown]

		A REVERIE.

SAY where is now my baby girl
	Of twenty years ago? 
Who came one morning beautiful
	When the world was all aglow?
She brought such love and gladness
	To that parental nest;
The Angels came and left her
	Awhile on earth to rest.
How we thoughtful watched her
	Grow lovely day by day!
The sky was shadowed in her eyes 
	Around her mouth the dimples play,
Her hair was long and fell in curls
	Around her beauteous face,
Her voice was low and tuneful
	Her form was full of grace.
So to womanhood she grew
	This joy of earthly home
Our heart strings close around her twined—
	So lovely had she grown,
It seemed that far off Heaven
	Shone out those lovelv eyes.
And when you drank their beauties in
	You looked in Paradise.
Her spirit true and beautiful
	Crowned with bliss that home,
Where love so deep and lasting
	Around this flower had grown.
Then came a day, can I forget,
	A cloud came o’er the scene,
And rested on this loved one
	The sun and her between.
And when it lifted she had gone,
	The angels had come down,
And called her back to Heaven,
	To wear a glorious crown,
I stood beside that bed
	Of death nor sensed my woe—
Her eyes gazed on the Glorious Day—
	Not now for me to know.
Oh! where is now my baby girl
	With brown and curly hair
With face so fair and winsome?
	Gone from earth oh, where?
The angel messenger of death, 
	Has borne her far away,
From earth with all its sorrow—  
	To realms of endless day.
Oh, God keep all her loved ones
	Left here on earth to mourn,

[Column 2]
So they can see and greet her
	In the Resurrection Morn,
She walks the Golden City
	Her elder sister by her side,
And when God makes up his jewels
	Will be a glorious bride.
And what of me, the mother
	Whose sorrow knows no rest?
Methinks I’ll bow before the throne
	And say “God knoweth best.’’
Then when my wee, wee baby
	Again lies on my breast
And bonny Frank with golden curls
	Close to my side is pressed,
My heart will melt in happy sighs—
	I’ll joyous wait for all the rest.
					Lydia D. Alder.
November, 1893.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	What, do as this caption implies: Ex-
pose woman! Yes, she will endure the
most critical, exposition, when compared
with man, as ruler over her. We are will-
ing to accept the compliment which is ever
due to her, and heed the poetic advice;
		“Be to her faults a little blind,
		Be to her virtues very kind;"
	for her virtues are of that historical re-
nown which justly elevate her in the
estimation of her appreciative companion.
	When in the garden, woman was master
of the situation; for a time she held the
destiny of a world in her hands, and not
until man yielded to her persuasive power
did she commit that destiny to the keeping
of her lord. Then with all the loveliness
with which man was surrounded, and even
the tree of life within his reach, there was,
to him, nothing so touching to his divine
nature, not yet humanized; nothing so
desirable in his eyes as the lovely form and
earnest eloquence of that truthful advocate
pleading for his society, to share with her
the conditions by which, and by which alone,
they could become as Gods, knowing both
good and evil, and thereby inherit those
attributes without which there is no God.
	Justice and mercy can be developed only
where good and evil are experienced: both
of which are necessary to the agency of
man.
	Woman may well be proud today of the
part she acted in the glorious panorama of
human existence, she chose her part and
played it well, to the end that man might
be, and have like knowledge as the Gods.
	To her the world is greatly indebted for
what man is, for what he has been, and for
what he may be. From the nursing babe
to the fully developed man of physical and
mental stature, of moral and intellectually
developed genius, by which he becomes the
lord of creation; woman as mother. is the
great factor and promoter of human great-
ness, in the evolutions of our race. Her
influence is stamped upon the character of
man from early childhood, and the influence
of that character is felt in society, leaving
its impress where it may be felt for the
elevation of all social intercourse, through
all the realms of human existence.

[Column 2]
	Though she may seek for political in-
fluence it is only for the laudable purpose of
extending her field of usefulness; and her
desire for power, is only that it may be
used to abate many of the social evils to
which the race of man is in bondage today.
And as a rule we may say that her desire is
as strong, her pleadings as sincere and con-
sistent, as when she plead with her lord in
the garden of Eden; and would, to the well
being of the world today, be as fruitful to
the perpetuity and happiness of man, as it
then was to his existence.
		Then her desire was of the man,—
			Come go with me, and so shall we,
			Fulfill our God-llke destiny;
		To be alone, with good unknown:
			How worthless such a life must be!
	But now she pleads for political recogni-
tion, and says:
		Give us the power and we’ll dispel,
		The reign of tyrants born of hell:
		From men’s unblushing demon deeds,
		Her earnest soul for freedom pleads.
	While woman’s entreaties and influence
have done so much, and would do more,
still for the world of man, her rebuke is no
less a power in restraining the devotee of sin.
	Her tearful eye of entreaty may melt in-
to the keenest sympathy, the stout and
possibly the stubborn heart of man’s
kindled passions; but her stern rebuke in
defence of honor, virtue, and the right,
will fill with awe the most impassioned
enemy, that would intrude upon her peace
and domestic virtues. Her weapons of
defence are indeed powerful when contrasted
or arrayed against the impudence of the
intruder upon the sacred precincts of her
innocence, and the sanctuary of her love.
	Her will is mighty to conquer and sub-
due the wrong, while in her legitimate field 
she is encouraged to exercise it, and that
field may well be extended with safety and
profit to the race, of which she is mother,
and the guardian of their youthful
experience.
		Let woman’s grace and love combine,
		To shed a lustre o’er mankind;
		And kindle fires to ever burn
		In every heart, the truth to learn.
	With woman’s sensitive nature and
powers of comprehension; her enduring
love which like God’s, enables her to be-
come endeared even to those who may be 
the cause of her troubles; her keen ap-
preciation and discernment of both the
right, and the wrongs of life; are but
exhibitions of her nature, which is ever
tending to the development of the divine;
and which indicates her true relationship to
that divinity of which man so often proves
himself a stranger, that it may well be
said, without her, “man is not in the Lord;”
neither can he become legitimately a lord
over and in the midst of intelligent
beings.
		Man of the dust was earthly made,
		Woman from man:—a higher grade;
		Man has the stern and master mind,
		Woman is plastic, loving, kind;
		Man’s nature is to rule, have sway—
		Woman’s to love and him obey;
		Man has the burden of toil to bear.
		Woman his love and cares to share.


No earthly good was e’er designed,
Man should enjoy without her kind.
Man may desire, may know, and then,
Woman must bear the souls of men;
And man the woman still must know,
To fill his mission here below.
All earth is witness she has filled
Her mission, as by Heaven willed,
From first to last, from Eden’s bower,
Her grace and love have been her power;
By which her reign may be complete,
O’er man’s humanity and vain deceit;
And he whose soul can love her well.
May find a home where angels dwell
She led the way for man to go,
That good and evil he might know,
By which, like God he might become,
And live again with Him at home.
