TEACHING TRUTHS TO TEENS THROUGH THE FAMILY HOME EVENING just happens to be our Family Home Evening. I know you don't know what that is 'cause you don't go to our Church, but boy it's great. I'll ask Mom and Dad if I can invite you over some night.... "We have one every week. "No, it isn't preachy! Sure, we talk some about religion but it's fun. Mom and Dad talk with us and we get our questions answered. Boy! It really makes you feel good when your Dad stays home from important meetings just to be with his family. He says nothing except an emergency will keep him away, and we haven't had any of those yet "Mom? Sure she meets with us. She helps plan and helps us fix up special eats. We take turns. Boy! You ought to see what we're having tonight. Mom and I just got it made.. "No, I can't tell you because it's a surprise and Donna would tell the whole family. She's right here listening to every word. Well, Paul, I have to hang up. It's almost time to get started on Home Evening. Tell Tom and Don I'll bow! With you another night.. "You don't think you'll go tonight either? How come you don't feel like it all of a sudden? You sick or something? Sure, I'll remember to invite you over sometime. Mom says you are welcome to come tonight, but since you don't feel.. "You do? You want to come > right now? O. K., you'll find our Home Evening is really great!" ParENTS, could this conversation have taken place in your home? Do your teenage boys and girls want to be with you on Home Evening? Do they consider their home a very special place because they know it is special with you? As they grow older and leave you to start homes of their own, what will their memories be? Will their homes be founded on a firm foundation because in their youth they were taught the gospel, their testimonies were strengthened, and they learned to get along with others through the Family Home Evening Program? Verl's home was this kind of a home. For as long as he could remember, Home Evenings had been a part of his life. He lived in a non-Latter-day Saint community, and this seemed to make those nights even more special to the family. In his home the evening of study, program, fun, and refreshments, often included holding a coun-. Cil which was a help in solving problems that arise daily in a home of growing children. If these problems were of minor importance, how convenient it was to say, "Bring this up in our Family Home Evening, we will discuss it there." Of course, only the major problems were remembered, and the little annoyances were eliminated with the children feeling that justice would be done. In their Home Evening Programs they had fun times, serious times, evenings laden with nostalgic memories, learning times, laughing times, working times, play times, weird programs, good food, nearly always a spiritual discussion, musical memories, problem solving, evenings dealing with genealogy, family reunion nights, Christ- mas programs, birthday celebrations, holiday keeping. Usually just the family participated, but on special occasions they held them at the grandparents' homes, with close family friends, around the campfire on camping trips, or with a lonely boy invited, such as Paul. As their family matured, their agenda developed to fit their needs and enjoyment. For the past thirteen years, since they have had children old enough to record minutes, they have kept a written permanent record of family nights. Occasionally, when they want to enjoy a real special time, they read through the pages of their "Home Evening Record" and chuckle together as they reminisce about past problems and pleasures. They have had some evenings they felt were failures, too. Whenever this happened, father and mother held a council and sometimes called in some of the older children to analyze what was the trouble. Better planning usually corrected the difficulty right away. Home Evenings have been a source of strength and joy in this home. The family members have come to know each other better, to appreciate each other more, to enjoy each other's talents and develop them. Because of home evenings, their love for each other is deeper and their eratitude for their home is more complete. Their understanding and love for the gospel have increased and their lives are more joyously full. These parents have built memories for their children that will strengthen them in hours of temptation or doubt. The children have built memories for the parents that will make their lives rich and full when they are left alone. To this family, Home Evening is REALLY GREAT.