WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 7 — When Has the Gospel Been Taught? (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through ) For Objective: To motivate practices within the home whereby all members of the family may be taught the principles of the gospel. INTRODUCTION The gospel of Jesus Christ was taught to Adam and Eve, who, in turn, taught its principles to their children. And thus the Gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost (Moses 5:58). And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters (Ibid., 5:12). This lesson, however, will not be concerned with the historical aspect of gospel teaching, as the title might imply, but will discuss the ultimate goal of teaching, which is to produce change in the life of the learner. To know what one did not know before, to feel as one did not feel previously, and to act upon this new knowledge, are all factors in the learning process. This discussion, therefore, will be based upon the concept that the gospel has been taught only when its teachings have produced change in the life of the individual. THE TEACHING MOMENTS We read much; we listen to many gospel sermons; we attend numerous Church meetings: How may we know when we have "learned" the gospel? How may the mother teach the principles of the gospel most effectively? When will the child be most receptive to ideas and truths which the mother knows are fundamental,. And how may she know when the child has really "learned" the teachings which she is endeavoring to teach. These are questions which concern each Latter-day Saint mother who accepts her part of the assignment given to parents by our Heavenly Father. They are also the concern of this lesson. In Deuteronomy 6:6-7 we find this relevant scripture: And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. This quotation indicates quite clearly that teaching need not be limited to a formal period of instruction nor restricted as to place. It implies that teaching moments occur throughout the day, whenever parents and children are together. Actually, the mother is teaching her children by her example, each day and each hour they are together. Example is a most effective teacher. That children imitate their parents is common knowledge. They tend to identify with the mother, who frequently may hear herself speak (sometimes unhappily so) through comments of her children. Yet, in addition to the general assimilation of gospel standards and attitudes through the influence of the home and the example of the mother, there are situations especially well adapted to the teaching of particular gospel principles. Some of these unscheduled situations which may create an atmosphere favorable to teaching and to learning are: 1. When a question is asked 2. When there is an infraction of a gospel standard 3. When there is a disputation 394 QUESTIONS CREATE TEACHING MOMENTS Perhaps no situation is more favorable to the teaching of a gospel principle than when a person asks a leading question. The mere fact that a question is asked, usually indicates a receptive mind. Many of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph were in answer to questions about which he prayed earnestly. Jesus, the Master Teacher, frequently made his reply to questions the opportunity to introduce or to explain a gospel principle. Although mothers often may become annoyed at the incessant questioning of the _ pre-school child, many of his questions offer an excellent opportunity to teach, in a simple way, the basic truths of the gospel. Hear little children asking such questions: Why do we pray every day? Can't we ever see Heavenly Father? How do we know Heavenly Father loves us? Why do we die? How would you answer these questions? When children are very young, a favorable situation for gospel teaching may even be created by the mother. What gospel teaching might be introduced appropriately, yet intentionally, during the following occasions? 1. A ride through the countryside (children, five to ten years of age). 2. On hearing of the death of a friend or relative (children, seven to twelve years of age). The alert mother, however, will find plenty of natural situations when a gospel principle may be accepted and welcomed even by teenagers who might resent an artificially created situation, feeling that they are being "'preached at." INFRACTION OF GOSPEL STANDARDS Often an infraction of a gospel standard may be the moment for effective teaching of that standard. Illustration: A junior high school girl came to school one morning wearing a very attractive wrist watch. As her friends admired it, one asked, "Is it your birthday, or something special?" "No, nothing special. I was in dad's upholstery shop yesterday and I found it under the cushion of a chair he is going to recover." -"But why didn't you tell your father so he could give it to the woman who owns the chair?" one companion asked. From another companion, "What did your mother say?" The girl replied, shrugging her shoulders, "She didn't say anything. She just laughed when I said. 'Losers weepers, finders keepers.' So here it is." Although the mother's previous training of her daughter on the subject of honesty may have been lacking, this mother lost a golden opportunity to teach honesty when the watch was found. Suppose the mother had said.... (Complete this sentence with words which the mother might have said, but didn't.) Suggest three ways by which the mother might have met this situation, all in accordance with the principle of honesty. DISPUTATION—A TEACHING MOMENT The following family discussion illustrates, in a dramatic way, LESSON DEPARTMENT how conflicting opinions may create a teaching moment. Jim: (age thirteen) and Alice (age twelve) enter the living room arguing: Alice: "I'm sure it was twelve fish." Jim: "It wasn't twelve fish, it was twelve baskets." Alice: "Baskets of what?" Jim: "Good night, Alice, don't you know what? Bread—twelve baskets of bread left over." Alice: "Well, you don't need to be so smart. I forgot about the bread. I know there was something about twelve. Maybe it was four fish." Jim: "Or seven or eight—you'd better get the facts, my dear Alice." Alice: "I will before I write." Mother: "Now, now, what is all this talk about?" 'Father: (lowering his paper) "A battle, I'd call it." Jim: "This little sister of mine, is pretty mixed up." Alice: "Mother, he thinks he's the 'brain' but he's not so sure of the facts, himself." Mother: "Alice, what IS. This all about?" Alice: "It's an assignment for seminary. Brother Brown asked us _ to write a short paper on one of the miracles of the Savior, and I chose." Jim: "One she doesn't know a thing about." Father: "What miracle did you select, Alice?" Alice: "The miracle of the loaves and fishes." Mother: "The feeding of the five thousand." Father: "Well, what's the problem?" Jim: "She's off the beam, that's all. She's mixed up on the fish, bread, and baskets." Alice: "I'm not either. I only forgot about the left-over bread. There were about four fish." Father: "Well, daughter, we ought to be accurate. There were, as I remember, five fish." Mother: "As I remember it, dear, there weren't quite that many. Aren't you thinking of the five thousand people?" Father: "No, I think not." Here is a wonderful teaching moment! Right now. Will the mother be aware of it? Will she make use of it? She did. She said: Mother: "I suppose we should go to the source. Alice, will you bring in the Bible." Alice: "Yes, Mother, Ill get it." (She returns quickly with the Bible which she gives to the father.) Mother: "Listen, children, Father is going to read to us about a miracle of the Savior." Everyone becomes attentive, even the smaller children, as Father reads from Mark 6, verses 30-44, the miracle of the loaves and fishes. Jim: "You see, Allie, twelve baskets." Mother: "And we were all wrong about the fish. Suppose we start reading the scriptures in our Family Home Evening Program." Jim: "A good idea, it might help Allie out—especially!" Father: (still in the Book) "Five loaves—two fishes—twelve baskets full of the fragments and of the fishes." Question: What might have happened to this situation had the mother not recognized it as a teaching moment? PRAYER AS A TEACHING MOMENT Weare all aware of the fact that praying together strengthens the family, but have you ever considered family prayer as a teaching moment? If, instead of using repetitive phrases, a parent prays for the individual needs of family members, expresses gratitude for the blessings of life, solicitude for the welfare of others, humility in asking for other blessings, the children may "experience" some of the most important of gospel teachings. Whether or not the children have "learned" from the experience of family prayer, may never fully be known to the par- 396 ents. Such comments as the following, however, expressed to Sunday School teachers by small children, indicate their reaction to the family prayer: Child: "We like our neighbors. My mother prays for Johnny nearly every day, because he is sick." Child: "We don't just ask Heavenly Father to give us things. We thank him, too, for all the things he has already given us." Still more convincing is the actual "'doing" of a gospel teaching. Boy: (taking in garbage cans for neighbor) "I brought these cans in for you because Johnny is sick and I know he can't do it himself. But we pray for him every day." FAMILY HOME EVENING A TEACHING OPPORTUNITY With the introduction of the Family Home Evening Program throughout the Church in , gospel teaching in the home should be greatly strengthened. This program provides planned and scheduled moments for teaching. It may appear, at first glance, that the Family Home Evening manual is for families with small children only. A careful reading, however, will reveal suggestions to families with older children or where there are adults only. For example, on page 4, we find: "Even adults living alone can benefit from this exercise of thinking of the good qualities in someone with whom they are not getting along well." Many principles of the gospel may be taught in the home by example of the parents, by capturing the unscheduled teaching moments, by everyday living of gospel standards and by the scheduled and definite period of learning provided by the Family Home Evening. But a full understanding of the gospel also requires thoughtful and systematic study. The Family Home Evening Manual offers guidance to adults for this study. As stated in Lesson 1, the fundamental concern of the Family Home Evening Program is that all Church members be instructed more fully in the gospel doctrine that they may live in accordance with its principles. The following modern scripture indicates that it is a commandment that we do so. And I give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D&C 88: 77-78). Man can, if obedient and of sufficient faith, receive such of these truths as will lead him to the celestial kingdom where, ultimately, he may comprehend all truth. LESSON DEPARTMENT SUMMARY Familiar to the point of triteness is the statement that "'telling is not teaching." A child has not learned simply because he has been told, although he may have listened attentively. The gospel may be taught in the home by example, by making use of the teaching moments, through the Family Home Evening Program, and through other gospel study by adults. Only when the home utilizes these opportunities will it be fulfilling its spiritual obligation to the family. FOR DISCUSSION: Questions as they appear in the lesson, plus those introduced into the class period. FOR HOME DOING: Create (for small children) several teaching moment occasions and watch during the month for evidences of the results. Discuss with children (teenage children in the home) the incident of the girl who kept the wrist watch. Make use of their reactions. If desired, use the illustration of disputation as a teaching moment in your Family Home Evening. Let children dramatize the action, having father actually read the scripture indicated, relative to the miracle of feeding the five thousand.