GUIDE LESSONS. 293 The wisdom of a wise policy seldom appears all at once. No doubt the protection from their enemies appeared to the Nephites the chiefest reason why they should build in communities and then go forth from these settlements and till their soil; just as in the pioneer days of Utah the people built forts in which they gathered to protect themselves from the Indians. Protection, however, is only one of the blessings afforded to people who build hamlets, towns and cities, and then go forth to their labors on the farm or in the mine, as necessity requires. All the religious, intellectual and social uplift that is a part of the life of those who live in communities is lost to those who scatter great distances and live on immense farms. Persons thus isolated can seldom gather at the church, the school, the amusement hall, and in too many instances they are without the church, the school and the amusement hall; for the simple reason that being without the community they lack also the valuable assets of community effort. That the Latter-day Saints have made history for themselves in this respect was made most noticeable in 1913, when the National Education Association met in Salt Lake City. Many excursions were made by the visitors into surrounding counties. Again and again, these men, used to school supervision, remarked:"Why, you are practically without the rural school problem; a problem that is proving most vexatious and difficult to cope with in many parts of our country." Now, the same advantage and opportunities that are ours through having grouped ourselves in settlements, were undoubtedly enjoyed in large or small measure by the Nephites. The inspired leadership of President Brigham Young, and the stalwart men and women who builded with him is the source to which we trace the superiority of our community life; and we doubt not, could we hold converse with the Nephites, that they would attribute the advantages of their community life in their agricultural district.^ to precisely similar sources. Another point of resemblance between our methods and their methods of agriculture, will be readily recognized when we say that there is every reason to believe that they knew and applied the science of irrigation in arid regions. In other parts, as with, us, they depended on the rainfall, and were greatly distressed over a season of drought. If the Latter-day Saints are to be distinguished because of what they have contributed to the world's knowledge in relation to irrigation, what shall we say of these former-day Saints, the Nephites, who dwelt upon this continent many centuries ago? 
 PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS. 1. Why must agriculture be a fundamental vocation of all peoples? 2. Wh)' does a crisis or universal condition in the economic life of the people, bring the importance of agriculture immediately to the fore? Illustrate. 3. Did the peoples of the Book of Mormon know anything of the manufacture of tools to carry on their work? Quote passage in proof of contention. 4. Tell why the Nephites would rejoice greatly when they discovered that such grains as wheat, corn and barley would grow in their new found home. 5. Account for the Nephites finding the cow. horse, oxen and ass, the goat and wild goat, in the woods and forests of this country. 6. Why would you expect the inhabitants of America, if industrious, tohave a great variety of fruit to eat? 7. Would.the Lamanites, when nomadic, caring most for the hunt, have the fruit and grains to eat that the Nephites would? 8. Discuss the advantage coming to people who, living in agricultural districts, build communities and work together. 9. What disadvantage must be borne by persons who, cultivating farms, elect to live on these farms far away from others? 10. What practice that has distinguished the Latter-day Saints in the cultivation of the soil, was in vogue to an extent among the Nephites? LESSON IL Work and Business. Second Week in June. LESSON in. Genealogy. Third Week in June. ENGLISH racial HISTORY, 55 B. C. TO 1066 A. D. We have seen that the northern European nations were all descended from the Teutonic race — the Franks and Germans from the Goths, the Scandinavians. Saxons and Normans from the Northmen, and the Welsh, Irish and Scotch from the Celts — all coming down probably from the sons of Japheth. The Latin GUIDE LESSONS. 295 races who are descended through Togarmah, son of Gomer, son of Japheth. are essentially different from the Teutonic races, although modern historians group them all together. The Latins are excitable, erratic, artistic, and are keenly susceptible to the Catholic religion — a religion of sensuous emotionalism; the Irish — among the Celtic remnants — seem akin to the Latin in this and many other traits. On the contrary, the Teutons — that is, the Scandinavians, Germans. English, Dutch, Swiss, German and Normans, are less emotional, require a religion which appeals to mind and heart alike, and are steady, sane and reasonable. It is through the Teutonic races that the Gospel has come — heralded by the Reformation, helped by the Huguenots, Puritans and Pilgrims, finally reaching its culmination in the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ, through the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Great Britain. We will now consider the racial history and general history of Great Britai:'.. which includes the countries known as England. Scotland. Ir' land and Wales, from the Christian era down to William the Conqueror — 55-1600 A. D. The country was inhabited at an early period by the Celtic race, subdivided into Britons, Picts and Scots. The Welsh are descended from the Britons, the Scots and the Irish from the Picts and Scots; yet the Irish proper seem quite like a distinct people even today. The Celts are supposed to have conquered and driven out a savage race inferior to themselves in civilization and strength. About the same time that Wales was settled by the Britons, the Scots settled in Ireland, passing from there at a later period over to Soctland, where they conquered and settled up the northern part which was called after them. Scotia or Scotland. The island of Britain was known to the ancient Phoenicians who were mariners and tradespeople. The Phoenicians carried on a thriving trade with the people of Cornwall, exchanging their goods for the tin found in that region. The people of these islands were divided into dift'erent tribes, each under its own chieftain. They lived in rude earthen huts and often builded their little towns on hills, raising mud walls as fortifications. Sometimes their hamlets were built upon piles raised in the marshes. When we first hear of them there was a little town life with market centers, and in the southern part of England the natives used gold coinage with a currency of iron bars or ingots. The religion of these people was pagan, with perhaps, we might say, a corrupted traditionary remnant of ancient patriarchal forms of life and worship. The priesthood were called Druids, and here as in France or Gaul, they practiced magical arts and offered human sacrifices with secret rites and ceremonies. The priest took no part in wars or politics. 
 Caesar's crossed the Straits Invasio)i. of DoverIn from the year Gaul, 55 B. C.is Julius or what Caesaras now known France. He landed in Deal, England. He made no permanent conquests, but he wrote a little account of the Britons, saying that there were numerous buildings and that the people were very rich in cattle and were well skilled in driving their chariots. In 43 A. D., the Emperor Claudius took an expedition up to Britain and conquered the people of Essex and Hertfordshire, making their capital Camulodunum, now Colchester, the seat of the Roman government. The emperor returned, leaving Vespasian in command. A subsqeuent battle in the Welsh mountains occurred where the Celts were routed by the Romans, the Britons headed by a ch-.ef Caradoc or Caractacus, being taken prisoner. The chief was carried a prisoner to Rome, and the story is told that he wondered, after seeing the splendors of that great city, why the Roman Emperor should desire his poor island. The Roman legions finally drove out the Celtic race from England proper, confining them to Ireland, Scotland and Wales. With the establishment of a military despotism came the language of the Conqueror, but if Latin, which was established then, was the language of the Court and of the foreign officials and soldiers, the people did not adopt it to any extent, for the Celtic tongue, after all, is the basis of the French, Spanish and Portuguese languages. A certain civilization was engrafted upon the English people through this conquest. Laws were enacted, garrisons were established, and finally some elements of civilization were introduced into these pagan islands. Caractacus and Boadicia. 43-61 A. D. The Welsh Celtic chieftain Caradoc or Caractacus routed the Romans, but was afterwards captured and taken prisoner to Rome. Several years later the Celtic Queen Boadicia whose daugter had been outraged and herself whipped by the Romans, rose up in revolt. She stormed the town of London and laid it in ashes; 70,000 Romans and strangers fell in one day. Saxon Invasions. In the third, fourth and fifth centuries the Saxon pirates invaded Britain and for years fought with the Roman conquerors. In 396 A. D. the Picts and Scots swarmed into Britain, and as the Roman troops were then needed for the advance on Gaul, the islands were left to the Celtic mercy. In the latter part of the fifth century the Jutes crossed the North Sea and conquered southe^n Britain. Thus, then, were the Picts and Scots on the north, the Angles and Saxons in the center, and the Jutes in the southern part of the isles. The Scandinavian invaders continued to pour forth hordes of rude conquerors on the English shores for the next four or five centuries. They were brave, invincible in war, but they were GUIDE LESSONS. 297 mercilessly cruel and ferocious. They hated the Christ'ans and destroyed every evidence which the Roman legions had set up of civilization wherever their prowess was victorious. The Saxons had destroyed and driven out the Celts, and now the other Teutonic tribe from Denmark's shores endeavored to wipe out the Angles and Saxons who had gained possession of the most of England. Here for several centuries several Teutonic tribes struggled for mastery. The Jutes and Danes, the Angles and Saxons, fought each other fiercely. Finally, in the course of centuries, the exigencies of life united the three peoples into one race, who were called the Anglo-Saxons, but this was not done without a struggle. Anglo-Saxon Social Customs. The homestead was the social center of Anglo-Saxon civil-'zation. The setheling or eorl established himself in the center of his little village or c-ethel. His retainers inhabited, each his own little croft where they lorded it over the lowlier freelings or ceorls who tilled the land and did the menial work of the village. The "f reeling" was a descendant, j)robably. of the earliest Celtic settler. The eorl was lifted above liis fellow villager, through birth and some degree of wealth. His followers held him in reverence, while his descendants were the "host leaders" or warriors who led the tribe in times of war. However, the eorl's position rested wholly on the acceptance of his fellow villagers. Every freeman had his vote and he was the foundation or unit of society. His long hair floated over a neck vdiich had never bowed to a lord. He was called a "free-necked" man, or the weapon-man. preserving to himself the right of revenge or individual warfare, which in a primitive state of society was made necessary. There was a lower strata of villagers who were called lacf or zillicns. These were tillers of the soil — the tradesmen. Of these were slaves, war captives, debtors, criminals, children sold into bondage by parents; they thus became part of the farm live-stock of the eorl. "Mine is the calf born nf mv cow." The "eorl himself held his position through purity of descent from the original Saxon settlers and encouraged his ambitious sons and nephews to bind themselves as comrades to the king or a neighboring chief. The chieftain gave his warriors I'orses, arms, and a set in his mead or beer hall with occasional gifts from his treasury. His comrades or thegns were bound to follow him into any fight or quarrel which he chose to make. The Anglo-Saxon customs engrafted themselves upon the Scandinavian conquerors. As has been said, from the eighth to the eleventh century the Scandinavian hordes infested England and finally amalgamated with the races there. Alfred the Great. In 871 Alfred the Great, a Saxon king, 208 ■ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ascended the English throne. The kingdom was owned — practically half of it at least — by the Danes. War followed war, and Alfred at last succeeded in forcing the Scandinavian armies into the northwestern part of England. Alfred was one of the most remarkable kings who ever sat upon the throne. He rebuilt London and established many cities destroyed by the Danes, rebuilt Chr'stian churches and formed a regular militia for the defense of the kingdom. He established his law^ rather upon the Mosaic code and held England, than upon the imperial edicts of Rome. He fostered education and founded the University of Oxford. He died in 901 and was succeeded by his son Edward. a much weaker king. Malcolm, King of the Scots. Malcolm, the Scottish king, was given possession of Cumberland as a fief in the year 943. Scotland emerged as a powerful sub-monarchy about this time: early in the sixth century the Scots had migrated from Ireland settling in large numbers in Caledonia. They brought their Christian religion with them from Ireland and the leader, Fergus MacErc, founded the kingdom of Dalriada in Argyle. Later the Monk Columba, driven from Ireland, came over to Scotland and established a church and began missionary labors among the Picts who were pagans. He established a school of theology and sent missionaries clear to England and the continent, reaching over into Gaul, Switzerland, Germany and Italy. An interesting extract concerning their labors is given by a French historian as follows: "The free church of the Scots and Britons," says D'Aubigne, "did more for the conversion of central Europe than the halfenslaved Church of Rome." "The sages of lona," says the same writer, "knew nothing of transubstantiation, or of the withdrawal of the cup in the Lord's supper, or of auricular confession, or of prayers for the dead, or tapers, or incense; they celebrated Easter on a different day from Rome; synodal assemblies regulated the affairs of the church, and the papal.supremacy was unknown." Various kings succeeded each other on the Scottish throne until 954, when Malcolm died. The line of Kenneth MacAlpin ended with Malcolm the Second in 1034. It was then that the terrible tragedy of Macbeth took place. Thus we have Scotland brought down to this period. Siveyn, the First Danish King of England. A succession of English kings followed Alfred the Great, each weaker than the last. In 994 a.powerful fleet under Sweyn, King of Denmark, and Olaf, Kingof Norway ravaged England so terribly that the Saxon King Ethelred bought his peace through a continuous tax called "danegeld." King Ethelred's weakness encouraged the Danes GUIDE. LESSONS. 299 and they continued their invasions. In 1013 A. D. he conquered the whole of Enobnd and was crowned Kingof England. Now occurrerl an incident which had a marked efifect upon Eng;lish history and indeed which was the root of all surname history in Great Britain and perhaps in Europe. King Ethelred. the Saxon f^eposeci monarch of England, took refuge in Normandy with his Iirotehr-in-law. Duke Richard the Good, forming a lasting treaty of royal friendship and exchange. Thus began a train of events important in their nature. When the Danish^-English king Sweyn died in 1014, the Saxon Ethelred went back from Normandy to England. His son Edmund succeeded to the English throne in 1016, but Sweyn's son, Canute, was also reigning "in the western part of England. Er'mund died shortly after, and Canute both thrones and made himself king of all England. Canuteseized was a very great monarch— wise, brave and resourceful. The reign of the Danish King Canute the Great over England was an important and lasting event and one which left an indelible impress on the surnames of Great Britain. The British AngloSaxon Danish peoples had advanced rapidly in civ'c arts, but in 9«0, during the reign of Ethelred, "the Unready," they were plunged constantly into civil war. Ethelred's son. Edward, who was the last Anglo-Saxon king, was brought up in Normandy. When he found himself, on his ascension to the English throne, beset by Earl Godwin, he called upon his Norman friends to come to his assistance and they came in shoals, thus introducing a new Scandinavian element into English life, as the Normans were originally Norsemen who had settled in Normandy and intermarried with the Franks. Civil war between the. Danes and Anglo-Saxons followed on the death of Edward, and his son. ETarold. was made king for a very little while, but his right was disputed by William, who was Duke of Normaniy. (always known as the "bastard." being the illegitimate son of Duke Robert of Normandy, called Robert, "The Devil." William's mother was a pretty washerwoman). Wiliam was, therefore, the cousin of Harold, the English king. William claimed that King F.r' ward promised him, when he was succored in Normandy, that be. William, would be his successor because of his help in driving out the Danes; and, furthermore, William declared that ETarold. the son, had sworn a solemn oath to ratify that promise. On the death of Edward, William at once sailed from Normandy with a tremendous army, and the Battle of Hastings was fought upon English soil. IVilliam the Conqueror. William who was a fierce, bloody, but s])lendid soldier, was resolved upon appropriating the English throne. He gathered about him an army of reckless and ambi- 
 tious adventurers, noljle in blood, but exhausted in ])urse through riotous hving. These, his whilom followers and boon companions, he won by promises of great estates and military honors when England was once conquered. It may be said that he was true to his promises. This horde of adventurers, raised by hook and by crook, a great army for those days of mercenary or hired soldiers, landed in the south of England at the port of Hastings. A fierce battle almost imme 'iately followed, called the Battle of Hastings, that battle which was to determine the fate of England. The conflict was fierce an 1 prolonged. The Saxon King Harold fell from an arrow wound through his €}'e and William was left master of the field. That very 'day he directed his clerks to gather about him and rea 1 the names of his brave and reckless followers, recording them on parchment for future memory and reward. He also directed that an abbey should be built on the site of the battle, and here he caused to be placed the famous and priceless roll of Norman conquerors, which list was laid upon the altar for regular remembrance in masses. Wiliam now marched upon London and was crowned in Westminster on Christmas c^ay, 1066. The Gemot of Salisbury. No sooner was William crowned and thoroughly established in England than he proceeded to fulfil his promises to the nobles who had accompanied him to England. He seized upon, by law, all of the manors or estates of England by force of his conquest, wresting the titles from the eorls and thegns without leave or license. These estates were grouped into manors which were appropriated by Will'am himself and distributed according to his pleasure. and with some rude justice to the bravest worthies of his followers. Distribution of English Estates. Following is a list of the ten largest holders of land after the Conquest: 1. The King held as manv as 1,422 manors 2. 3. The Earl Alan, Earl of of Mortain' Br^tanv, held 793 442 4. Odo, Bishop of Bayeux, held 439 5. Gosfrid, Bishop of Coutance, held 280 6. Roger de Busle held 174 7. Ilbert de Laci held 164 " 8. William Peverel held 162 9. Robert de Stradford held 150 10. Roger de Laci held 116 The ordinary arrangement in every manor was this: It was (Hvided into two parts. One portion was the great home-farm about the seigneurial manor-house, held distinct from that of the GUIDE LESSONS. 301 tenants. The rest of the manor, called the tenantry part, was divided into small copyhoklings, of about nearly equal value, and enjoying" equal rights of commonage. This was, however, a constant pressure brought to bear upon the tenantry to reduce their privileges, and the functionaries of the lord were on the alert to pare down their rights. Swarms of unler lords and functionaries were maintained. The Social Effect of JVilliams Conquest. The Danish King Canute was both wise enough and ada])table enough to assimilate and amalgamate himself and his policies with the advanced civilization of Englar^d which he found when he came over as a boy from his native land. William was neither adaptable nor inherently gracious. He brought with him fixed standards of life and law and he felt nothing for the English but contemptuous tolerance. Tt is true that Norman civilization was as superior to the English as the English was to the Danish, but why this descendant of Norse or Scandinavian forebears should regard his AngloSaxon-Danish subjects of England with such contempt is hard to realize. The \^iking had settled up Normandy but five generations s'nce, yet thev had completly forgotten their old Scandinavian tongue, and Erench was to them the hall mark of civilization and aristocracy. The explanation is perhaps that Scandinavians are the most adaptable 'people in the world. Whatever countr}' the^• locate in they at once absorb the national individuality and practically lose their own. Another cause of William's unbending attitude was the instant necessity to prov'de his rapacious followers with lands and treasure through a rigidly selfish wholesale confiscation of all English estates.passed of England At least four-fifths to the of the The new masters. so'l in the southern dispossessed part owners must either become the hired peasants of the new owners or make new homes elsewhere. A great and lasting hatred was thus engendered. Itwas permitted a few English land owners who had not fought under Harold to buy back their lands by paying a heavy fine to William. Social Conditions. William instituted great military garrisons, taxing the people to sustain these non-producers. A cruel penal code, cruelly enforced, protecterl the Norman gentry in their exactions, even in their amusements. It was at this time that some of the dispossessed Saxon heroes fled to the woods and great forests and established themselves as famous outlaws, among whom was Robin Hood. Highwa}^ robbery and assassination became commonplace, but the English people defended and protected the slayers of the vic'ous Norman nobles. The Norman's love of luxury helped him to express himself in buildingcastles, 
 furnishingthem in stately grantleur with rich armor for liimself and his prancing steeds, while his banquets in their del'cate service were as opposed to the coarse gluttony of the conquered Saxons as were their other habits and customs. The Normans were graceful cavaliers and their chivalry left a vital imjMxss not only upon the manners and morals of the conquered English, but upon all European nations. They were not only brave soldiers, but distinguished orators, and from them sprang much of the culture and charm of subsequent English life. In the following century the Norman kings conquered Ireland and male Scotland tributary. Their intermarriage with French sovereigns gave them immense.power and influence on the continent, but with it all they maintained a separate court from their English subjects, with French as the royal and official tongue. They were French, not English. French was the language of all officialdom. All h'gh offices V\'ere filled with Frenchmen and for at least four generations this divergence was marked and inharmonious. Domesday Book. William's most celebrated and, genealogically speaking, most important act was the compilation of a record known as Domesday Book. The occasion of this book was the ttecessity for recording not only the names of all taxable land holders in his kingdom, but to ot)tain as well an enumeration of every class of property, real estate, and even cattle and sheep to the last item. The income of every man w^as noted. The record v.'as intended to be a perfect survey and census of the entire kingdom. We shall speak more particularly of this book in a future chapter. The Feudal System. William introduced the feudal system which is an interesting and historic condition. The feudal system was based upon a peculiar tenure of land or possession or ownership of land. As a matter of theory all kings of the earth owed allegiance to the ruling emperor, and religiously to the pope. The kings held their dominions in a sort of trust to their emperor or suzerain on condition of fealty or allegiance to the principles of right and justice. If a king became wicked or disloyal, the emperor might depose him and put another in his place. In the same way each king granted titles to his chief men in trust or fief, on condition of their loyalty to them. These vassels of the king again gave titles to smaller tracts of land to men under them on similar conditions; so that no land was held in fee simple, but each was held in loyalty and service to ownership under his master's final jurisdiction. The remnants of this legal system are in Europe today, where all unclaimed lands revert to the crown, and orphans with property become the wards of the crown. The social conditions paralleled the legal so that the liberty of each GUIDE LESSONS. 303 man was his only, as granted him by the man in rank above him. Thus, we have in England, at the time of the Norman conquest, several independent sub-tribes of the Teutonic people. In Scotland and Ireland were the Celts mixed with Anglo-Saxons and Danes in the lowlands of Scotland. In Wales were the Britons; in the northern part of England were Anglo-Saxons and in the v/estern part were Danes. Over them all were NormanErench officials and barons who ruled with iron hand and unscrupulous.selfishness. Out of these elements came not only the people who are now called English, but they evolved at this time a system of surnaming mixed multitudes in order to determine titles of land and to fix official residences and social responsibilit'es. What happened in England at this time as to the beginning of surname customs took place in a sense in Erance and Ger"- many. Details of this wonderful genealogical epoch will be treated in various chapters as we pass along. LESSON IV. Home Economics. EouRTH Week in June. TESTING AND CLEANING OF FABRICS. Fabrics made of pure fiber, especially of wool, silk and linen are today very expensive, the reasons are obvious. But manufacturers have attempted to keep the prices the same, in many cases, by sacrificing quality. To avoid deception, it is necessary for the consumer to familiarize himself with genuine goods, in order to detect adulerations. A good method to detect "sizing" : hold materials up to the light; in this way starch, clay, etc., can easily be detected; for heavier materials, brisk rubbing between the hands will remove the starch and clay, and then it will show how loosely the threads are woven. Linen goods are sometimes adulterated in the same way. Cotton fibers are also often added. Sometimes there is an entire substitution of cotton for linen, the glossy and beautiful effects are produced by the cloth being passed between hot rollers. The use of. the microscope is the safe method of detecting a mixture of fibers. Since this is impracticable the following simple tests will be found helpful: To detect cotton in linen fabric, put a drop of olive oil on the cloth. The linen will then be found more transparent than the cotton. Another test is to wet the finger and place it on the under surface of the cloth. If linen, the moisture will be ab- 
 .sorbed quickly. Ai^ain, break the threads; cotton breaks with a tufted fuzzy end, hnen with an uneven, pointed end. Wool is perhaps adulterated more than any other, fabric. To detect cotton in cloth, ravel out a portion of it and light a match to the warp and filling thread. Cotton thread burns quickly and \\il:h a blaze. Wool chars slowly without a flame, and smells like burningfeathers. Another test: put thread in alcohol, the wool will curl while the cotton hangs straight. Besi'des the natural varieties of wool used in textiles, we have a large amount of "shoddy." This is obtained by tearing up all kinds of rags and waste, bringing it back into loose fibers am? spinning it alone or with a certain amount of wool. To make use of the rags, the fibers must be torn apart, they are broken, consequently shorter and less valuable. The burning test of wool is also good for silk. Also the ash of weiohted silk retains the original sha.pe and breaks to pieces at a touch. The art of cleaning and renovating clothing should be learne ' a'ul practiced that the wearing apparel, of all kinds, after injury or partial.decay, might be made new. To remove fruit stains from clothing, etc.. hold the arf'cle so ihat boiiirg water can be poured over it. letting the water fall; should this fail, bleach as for flannels. To remove ink stains, wet spots with milk (sour milk is best) ; this should l)e c^one as soon as possible after stain is made; rub gently and repeat if necessary. If no milk can be obtained, wet with water, rub piece of lemon in salt and then on the stain. A few applications will always remove it. Tar.spots can ])e removed by putting butter upon them and let them stand a few hours, then cleanse with soap and water (Ivory soa]:) is best for all delicate fabrics). Before washing cotton-colored goods, -dip them in a solution of salt ar.d water, then hang them in a shady place to dry. The salt sets the color. To wash flannels so the)- will not shrink or turn yellow, wash i-' two lulre-warm soap suds. Do not hang put in extreme cold weather. To remove mildew from clothing, take common liquid soap and stir in enough salt to make it granular, then rub it on the spot and let it lie out over night, if it is not removed, then wet several times during the day. To remove grease and dirt spots from fabrics of all kinds, put soiled parts on a thick pad to absorb liquid; rub briskly, only from goods to spots, and they will be forced through on the pad. Do not rub spot first or it will run in the goods and cause a ring after it has dried. I::WiiiiililWiiiBwiiiiil ^•^^»««i|i||iai|i^ili||: '■■■■^■ilililli FACTORY PWeE-.-EASIESi TERMS Send No Money— I Pay Freight- ■%r.eS^'- Wherever you live in the Western States 111 send you this world famous Columbia GrafonoU with the true "Tone of Life" that simply can't be imitated, and your choice of records from a list of thousands. Place them in your home and use them exactly as though they were your own, for 5 days. Enjoy them as much as you like — invite the neighbors— hold dances and happy parties. Then if you aren't entirely sure youfwant to keep the outfit, return it at our expense and the trial won't cost you a copper cent. Easiest terms if you do keep it. Send coupon for free hooks COL. JOSEPH J.