A Memorable Journey to the Scenic Glories of Southern Utah By Susa Young Gates The recent sight-seeing group convention and trip to southern Utah, planned by President Heber J. Grant, and President Anthony W, Ivins was partly arranged on the invitation of the principal railroad men of this Inter-mountain region, and it was both important, in its bearing upon the future, and happy in its personnel and arrangements. "See America First," has been written across the advertising pages of railroad folders and guide books issued in this country, for years. It is the sentiment of every true American who loves his country and realizes that knowledge concerning our own homeland is essential to the cultured person before he begins to study other lands and visit other homes. It is an adaptation of the scriptural phrase "Know thyself, O man." "See. Utah First," should be written for a season at least, across every auto route or log-book, railrgad guide, newspaper, and magazine published in this state. Utah possesses within herself more varied scenery, perhaps, than any other state in the Union. The towering crags and mounthin dells, the snow capped pinnacles and rugged canyon defiles of the northern section of the state have been advertised, and visited extensively by native Utahns as well as by thousands of tourists and pleasure seekers; but the southern part of the state, with its scenic resources, until recently, has been a sealed book even to the people who have been born and brought up in the valleys of that section of the state.; A few daring adventurers, cattlemen and the native Indians, during the half century of residence there, have seen whit is now known as Little Zion Canyon, the Cedar Breaks, and Bryce 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Canyon, to say nothing of the Kaibab Forest which extends sixty miles on and beyond the dividing line between Utah and Arizona south of Kanab, clean onto the rim of the Grand Canyon; but the vast majority of the people who have lived in Panguitch, Kanab, St. George, Cedar and Parowan, with the other little villages near them—few indeed of these natives of southern Utah have ever troubled to make the trip which now is considered one of the great artistic and educational sights of this United States of ours. It would be a good idea for the Boy Scouts and Mutual Improvement Associations to make a business of paying visits to these wonders, for the trip possesses an educational value impossible to overestimate. Such scenes widen the vision, enlarge the spirit, and bring the soul into communion with God through his masterpieces. Some of the earnest and forward looking men of the southland long have been endeavoring to impress these thoughts upon the people of the state, and especially upon the business and railroad men. It is true, their motives may be the naturally mingled motives of men everywhere, a desire to improve business and financial conditions, to develop natural resources, and to bring people into the country; but our own people are too sensible of the purposes of the Lord, and too idealistic, not to feel instinctively the spiritual value of all this recent propaganda. The Church party was invited by President Heber J. Grant, whose lovely and gracious wife, Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, accompanied him. The party were to attend two conferences after the visit to the canyons, one at Kanab, September 10 and 11, and the other at St. George, September 17 and 18; Elder Robert L. Judd, son-in-law of President Grant, represented the General Board of the Sunday School, and he was accompanied by his wife, Mrs.
A., son of President A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 619 Lorenzo Snow. Mrs. Susa Young Gates was from the General Board of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Ruth May Fox, one of the Presidency of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, were with the party, although Mrs. Fox was obliged to return after the conference in Kanab. The magnetism and enthusiasm of youth was added to the party by the exquisite beauty of Fulvia Ivins, the bubbling vivacity of Emily Smith Stewart, and the refined dignity of the two young matrons, Mary Grant Judd and Leah Ivins Cardon; while the irrepressibly childish joy of Lucy-Beth, and Margaret, were a never-failing source of delight. The railroad party was headed by the well-known railroad Tian MISS FULVIA IVINS Pa leader and publicist, Mr. W. S. Basinger, Passenger Traffic Manager of the Union Pacific System, who came from Omaha for this trip. The details of the sight-seeing trip itself were arranged by the genfal General Passenger Agent of the O. S. L. R. R., Mr. Daniel S. Spencer, who is a past-grandmaster in such matters. Mr, A. L. Craig, General Passenger Agent of the U. P., accompanied Mr. Basinger from Omaha. From Los Angeles came Mr. Marius de Brabant, Assistant Traffic Manager of Los Angeles and Salt Lake R. R., a courtly Frenchman with old-world manners and new-world dynamics. Charm and refinement shed its genial ray upon the railroad party through the delightful personality of Mrs. Armstrong, who 'accompanied her husband, Mr. W. R. Armstrong, Chief Engineer of the O. S. L. R. R. The superintendent of the Grand Canyon National Park, Mr. D. L. Reaburn came up from Arizona to join the party. Colonel Wesley RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE E. King, of the Commerejaj lub, with Dr S. Bascom M: Lawrence S. Ma ger, President of the Salt Transportation company, Ch GP TY, President of ational Park Tansportatio Pany, Mr Eyr Powell, h €-wire pub. Icity man of the U. System from heyenn » WwW: ming, Mr ler and Mr. Ajj Pyper, chauffeurs" all came from Salt axe with the Tailroad arty. Pre ident Henry - "unt, of the @rowan 5 ake 6 Zion, and state Senator, Joined the edar, as did Mr. Randal] L. Gi a » S€cretary of the Cedar Ci Ommercja] Club - F at Kanab President of the Kanab Stake of 7; ngel Poin DY way of Kanab to B yon, Panguitch wan, Cedar Breaks, returning down Cedar C. Cedar City and Lund, Point, » Paro. Anyon thence to TOM every indication there Could be no dou bt but that these A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 621 ists into and through Southern Utah. Utah people know the splendid work done by Mr. D. S. Spencer, LEE - Of course, this would be a stupendous MR. D. S. SPENCER Undertaking when one knows that approximately 100,000 people visit Yellowstone Park each year. When Mr. Spencer began his campaign there fifteen hey were joined at Cedar city by the remainder of the party who went by autos and Spent the night in Cedar. There is a remarkable awakening in this Pretty little city, A beautiful new hotel first building in the town. There is quite a section of a Main Street here, with two drug stores, two meat markets and several dry goods and general merchandise Stores. Many hundreds of 
 Tourists pass through here weekly, and good camping grounds are arifanged for those who wish to avail themselves of this privilege. Just outside of town is a pathetic mixture of tepee and white man's shacks, forming an Indian suburb which houses a little group of placid looking Lamanites. A number of the visitors who had arrived before the railroad men, took a trip up to the Cedar Breaks, on Tuesday, September 5. The road was about twice as narrow as the Brighton road and one half again as steep. Ruts were plentiful and mud holes not rare, but the party was engineered by that delightful optimist, Wilford Day, (his name should have been 'Dawn-O'-Day") whose persistent cheerfulness and refusal to recognize mud-holes or ruts as such, his delightful wit and constant appeals to one's sense of fair-play, with his rich drafts on the scenic futures, kept the whole party keyed up with hope and persistence to climb and MR. W. S. BASINGER IN LITTLE ZION CANYON climb even if the whole engine burst and truth ran out like a flood from beneath. His quick assurance, when asked if there were any more hills to climb, that there were no more hills, "just the same hill" all the rest of the way, robbed the elevation of its terrors, even the panting engine took a new spurt, and we all reached the rim of the Cedar Breaks in high good humor, The sight was well worth the effort and the climb; Cedar Breaks is a Little Grand Canyon. After you have visited the Grand Canyon, you can go back to the Cedar Breaks and feel that your smaller portion of magnificence and grandeur, at Cedar, is far more fitted to your finite comprehension, and you do not feel so lost A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 623 in the immensity of glory. You can comfortably trail down a. Way into the Breaks and look off to the glorious peaks, below and beyond you, with quite a chummy feeling of your personal nearness and the gorge's mortal possibilities. The marvel to the person who has lived in Dixie for many years is that this scenic beauty has remained till this decade for exploitation and observation. The whole party reached the Wiley camps, at Little Zion, the next evening, September 6th. At Cedar Breaks, as at the Grand Canyon, you stand on the edge of the earth crack and look way below you into the vast reaches of imprisoned glory. In Little Zion, the towering red and yellow fantastic crags and peaks rise up into the blue sky in quite a natural manner. That is the way we have always looked at mountains and peaks and rocks and crags, so that no matter how high they are, nor how brilliant in color or fantastic in shape and contour, you feel quite at home with your feet on the earth as you travel along the road between them. The awful shock that comes to you when you stand on the rim of Bryce or the Grand Canyon or on the rim of Cedar Breaks is the sensation of finding that the earth has opened at your feet and disclosed another unknown world of crags and peaks and mountains miles below you, too far down for your eye even to differentiate one from the other. You feel that in some uncanny way this old earth has played a trick on you, by gashing its bosom for you to gaze in awe at its hidden interior. As a matter of sanity you rather prefer old Mother Earth to keep herself normally covered, with you decently on the surfface. The Wiley camps at Little Zion are complete in arrangement, excellent in service, and extremely comfortable in detail; food and beds are cf the best. The only drawback is the fewness of tents, when so large a party as ours were present. It will take a little time before even the resources of the Wiley' camps can afford to provide for great parties. As a matter of fact, large parties go rarely there. For smaller parties of a dozen ' or more, the arrangements are more than satisfactory. Mr. And Mrs. Wiley themselves, who originated the Wiley Camps all over Yellowstone Park, were there, and greeted the party with genial courtesy. At the request of a hundred or two visitors from the nearby towns, a meeting was held that night in which the delightful periods of Major King, the humor of Mr. Basinger, and Mr. Armstrong, were varied by the forceful remarks of President Grant and the moving and finished eloquence of President Anthony W. Ivins; all of which offered a fitting tribute to the glory with which the party were surrounded. Assurances of future efforts to develop these natural resources through better roads, railroad help, GROUP TAKEN AT ANDERSON'S. RANCH, BELLEVUE A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 625 resourcefulness which will place him in the front ranks of his chosen business in life. Such young men are a credit to the Church and the State. §Tapes, found on the Sunny slopes of French vineyards, and the only ones he had found since leaving his home that possessed the black 8Tapes, with tons of watermelons, marked the triumphal Progress of the Party at every stop through Dixieland, Another Picture was taken while the Party were at a table spread, in Hurricane, by Brother Isom, assisted by the friendly citizens of that live little city. A stay Overnight was made in Kanab by the whole party, and the next day the trip was taken through the exquisitely beautiful reserve, Kaibab Forest. The Kaibab Forest lies in what is luscious Pealed, dried peaches ever boxed, Weighted, and prepared for shipping, in Any land or clime. With a railroad the Dixie People should have a gold mine in the natural products. Going up the steep incline of Hurricane Hill, in a smooth. Running, easy-riding auto, is 4 violent contrast for the Dixieite who has negotiated that rock-ribbed, winding, sandy-spotted dugWay ina groaning and creaking lumber-wagon drawn by horses, or beside or behind them, who were reeking with foamy sweat, tottering from wildly-swinging single-trees and tongue-lolling 
 From heat and thirst. O Yes, it was an abyssma] change! A significant Picture of the journey was the picture of our President Standing on the top of the mountain and 84zing at the brilliant contrasts of black rock, red sandstone hills, and Sarden-green towns spread out below him as ixieland unfolded to his £aze. Pine-tree forest which is varied by open Parks and peopled pb 20,000 deer. The deer fre not afraid, and you often see them §razing in herds in the near distance,;, NORTH RIM OF GRAND CANYON At Bright Angel Point we found Mrs, Parry, the daughter of the Wileys, in charge of the damp, and we here again were made comfortable and_ happy. Some venturesome ones took A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 627 it often terrifies women and even men, some of whom are reduced to hysterics. It certainly tries the knees of aged climbers, aud only youth and intrepid nerves really fit the observer to enjoy the sensation. Presidents Grant, Ivins and Elder George A. Smith climbed up, and soon the camp was flooded with the ringing melody of "O, ye mountains high!" Another delightful time was experienced at the Canyon rim, music and speeches varying the evening's entertainment. At the Rim we met Mr. George Q. Morris and his famous wife with the beautiful voice, Emma Ramsey Morris; and Professor Beckstrand and wife of the University of Utah, but they remained with us only over night. BRYCE CANYON The R. R. Party left early the next morning. The Church. Party remained a few morning hours at the Point, and then reached Kanab that evening, September 9, ready for the conference which was to be held on Saturday and Sunday, September 10 and 11. The meetings were unusually interesting, and the soulstirring address on loyalty by President Anthony W. Ivins touched the people deeply; while the timely remarks of Elder George A. Smith, closing with the powerful testimonies of President Heber J. Grant were forceful and inspiring. Rarely has the President spoken with more convincing power! Each of the visitors in every convention did the work allotted to him or her with vigor and dispatch. Elder Smith has so recently returned from his mission abroad that he found eager listeners to his every word. 
 And right nobly did he respond to the sympathetic desires of his Elder Judd was particularly apt in his talk concerning the two boys who started out with equal chances, but ending at opposite ends because of different use of life's chances. While at La Virkin Elder Judd met his aged father, that Dixie patriot and state-wide horticulturist, Bishop Thomas Judd, who had ridden over from St. George to see his son, although in feeble health. Farmers and stock raisers all through this section of the country are very much discouraged with the financial outlook, as they are indeed all over the United States, but the spirit of the people is beautiful and harmonious. President William Seegmiller of this stake has a wide vision, and deserves the love and confidence so generously given to him by the people of his stake. President Grant returned September 12, with 'a portion of the party, visiting Bryce Canyon near Panguitch, and returning home about the middle of the week. Bryce Canyon is like and yet unlike all the others. Nature, working in untold ages through the agency of her master puilder—erosion—has created here, in Bryce Canyon, in the heart of southern Utah's Wonderland, an appalling spectacle that is destined to charm countless mortals in the years to come. It ranks with the greatest of the world's wonders. In fact it is the only known spectacle of its kind in existence. It has proven its popularity as a world wide scenic attraction by the thousands of tourists who have already visited here, and who have A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 629 pronounced it as undoubtedly the greatest single scenic eyeful in the world. Bryce Canyon is not really a canyon but a giant amphitheatre or basin about two miles wide and three miles long. It lies on the edge of a high plateau, at an elevation of eight thousand feet, in the heart of the Sevier National Forest in Garfield county, Utah. Vast and mighty miracles have been wrought here; for the softer parts of the mountain have been eroded away, leaving an indescribably weird array of huge towers, spires, minarets and temples adorning the sides and bottom of the canyon. The first view of it as you arrive is from the top or rim, and at the beginning there is far too much to see; far too much to comprehend. The imposing monuments and labyrinthine depths of this tremendous chasm, all in @ mass of unbelievably gorgeous colors, fairly stagger the mind and move the soul to awe and adoration at the manifestation of an agency too great for human comprehension. In places there is a sheer drop of eight hundred feet from the rim to the floor of the canyon, and many of the giant monoliths far exceed in height the tallest office building. President Anthony W. Ivins and Elder George A. Smith and associates went on to St. George holding the conference scheduled in that city for September 17 and 18. The festival in St. George was on during that week, It consisted chiefly of Wild West shows and a grand concert, by Emma Lucy Gates and Frances Grant The people were delighted with the show and with the concert given by these two artists. Emma Lucy came down by auto with a party, President Joseph Quinney and wife of the Logan stake, Mr. Albert E. Bowen, whose wife happens to be Emma Lucy herself, Dr. John A. Widtsoe and wife, with Miss Frances Grant. The party left St. George immediately after the concert, driving back to Cedar for a concert there September 17, after which they made the rounds of the Canyons. The conference which followed was successful in every particular. A number of the visitors attended services in the St. George temple and enjoyed the happy association with that vetera" temple worker and long time St. George Temple President, David H. Cannon. No more beautiful and healthful winter resort is found in America than St. George. Dry, warm, sunny, and surrounded with dazzling jet black, red and gold mountain scenery, the home of superior and genial Latter-day Saints, with the supreme attraction of a temple as the jewel in its crown of rare semi-tropical beauty, the wonder is that our people who travel do not spend their winters here instead of in that misty, soggy-wet, crowded, vanity-loving winter-resort, Los Angeles! ' The temple is never crowded. Hundreds more'could be ac- 630 RELizp SOCIETY UAGAZING "ommodated by skillfy] Planning, and the Saints could Partake of € pure, heavenly influence therein Maintained. President Cann "on has pres Tve n Clear-verhay Memory and 1 Carefy] records the j Tuctions and Sayings Presiden Brigh Youn WhO spent hj t winte On earth Within these Sacred walls, structing + Tethren St minute details concerning 1€ Ordinance wo €vealed he Pro het Oseph Smith and taught in Carefy] €xXactitude to Brigham Young by the Prophet himself. € ceremonies are Precisely the Same as 8iven there under President Young, in 1877, with A single exception resident Edward H, NOW, is a Tare Combination of financial] COndition js Safer Perhaps jn St. George than in some Other Sections of the Southern Country, Ay least, their Own i i tate, t r intelligent and @PPropriate discrimination Oncerning the Value f education for young People, and the vast POSsibilitieg of the future for the Youth of this Church and State, He rendered called home by the S€rious illness of her beloved husband. € Sisters in the Party each Spoke at the Various Meetings, 4 MEY ORABLE JOURNE y, 631 far from well, stil Temains on the stake board Siving the new President the benefit of her €Xperience and counsel], Tanch, where his cattle Tanged; the St. George fields Where he Watered alfalfa or hunted young quaj] and Cotton-tai] rabbits, al] 0 iy. Im Sabbath Services at the St. George conference With deep fee|_ POWerful faith of the men who had laid the foundation of these isolated Cities in oy, Southern counties, He paid tribute to the Music was of @ Superior character. He St. Orge festiva] Was Closed with the annnaj distribution of fruit to Visitors and citi. H Ot less enjoyable Was the r Smith, to St. George; for St, George was named for his 8tand- 
 Father and Elder Smith himself spent 2 long winter there rallying his health forces a few years since. His own geniality an brotherly kindness, together with his wife and daughter's kindly and attractive personalities, left delightful impressions upon their old-time and new friends in this southern city of the Saints. Elder LeRoi C. Snow, who accompanied Elder Smith, also gave good evidence of inheriting his father's quick apperceptions, gentle courtesy, and true loyalty to the gospel messageWith the coming railroad and a possible oil boom, St. George may be swamped with modern business men and institutions; put in his remarks on the Sabbath day, President Ivins urged upon the people to get out of debt, to keep out of debt, and above all not to mortgage their homes, much less dispose of them in the present financial crisis. He deplored the season of extravagance which has swept over our people in common with the rest of the world and counseled the Saints to habits of thrift and economy. President Edward H. Snow has long administered the affairs of this stake with wisdom and kindness; while his associates have ably assisted him in maintaining the fatherly solicitude which was so much a part of the labors of his great father, President Erastus Snow. When one observes the history of this section of our state, one is reminded of the saying of President Brigham Young: He was asked what could be raised in Dixie, and his characteristic reply was, "Men and women." A study of the roster of notables who have performed great service in this Church, in colonizing Arizona, New Mexico and Old Mexico; in eduvational and musical fields; in missions, both as presiding officers and as faithful missionaries in civic and business circles of the state and nation; as stake and genertal authorities, including both men and women—in all of these walks of life the Dixie descendants of those faithful, isolated pioneers will be found to have written their names in undying letters upon the scroll of history. Whatevery may come to Dixie in the future, no finer crop will evet be raised than the men and women who have been born or reared there.