The Spreading of the Cloth
By Dorothy Nell Mair
THE great American feast day approaches! From far and near the scattered members of the family come. Around the festive table they assemble to give thanks to the Creator for a bountiful harvest, and to acknowledge in united spiritual communion the blessings He has bestowed upon them. Thanksgiving Day is a sacred day and a joyous one. Should not a sacred feast be spread upon a sacred cloth?
In the Old Testament there is mention made of the spreading of the cloth when guests arrived in one's house. Also, in various places throughout the Bible, linen is spoken of. In Chronicles we read of Solomon importing linen from Egypt, and indeed, it was held in such esteem that only priests wore garments made of it. Linen was called the cloth of purity. It covered the altars and sacred objects in the temples, no other fabric being considered good enough for such service. On Thanksgiving Day we hold a sacred feast, too. We bow our heads in prayer and lift our hearts to God to thank Him for our blessings and to commemorate the blessings He bestowed upon the Pilgrim fathers. The feast before us is spread upon a gleaming white cloth—the sacred cloth of linen. And so it should be.
THE modern housewife meets with no problem when she shops for table linen. Fashion has decreed for us many varieties from which to select. There will be tables graced with lace coverings made from linen threads; there will be glassware and silver service sparkling on white damask. Originally, damask was a heavy silk, elaborately ornamented, and took its name from the ancient city of Damascus where it was first made. When table linen began to be woven in brocaded effects, it took its name from elaborate brocaded silk, and was called linen damask. Whatever your choice for a table covering, preserve the sentiment of the feast and use linen. Linens from Ireland and Belgium are accepted as the best in quality. In fact, the flax from Belgium is said to be the best in the world, having a very rich creamy color, thought to be imparted by the chemical content of the waters of the river Lys, in which the flax is retted.
Tablecloths were in use for many years before napkins were considered part of the table equipment. The cloths used by the ancients had very long ends, which served as napkins, and it was not until the time of Queen Elizabeth that separate napkins were fashionable. Because of the elaborateness of the old-time banquet tables, professional table setters were employed. When the napkin was introduced, these professional table setters received large sums for folding them in odd shapes and forms which was thought to add to the table's decorative appearance.
All through the ages memorable events either of religious significance or of social importance have been celebrated by feasts. The elaborateness of the early Egyptian banquet tables was superseded by those of the Roman Empire during its height. At that time it was customary for the host to present each guest with a crown of flowers to be worn during the dinner hour. But, with all the display of elegance of historical feasts of the past, perhaps none of them had the sentiment and significance of our own Thanksgiving Day dinner, excepting those given by Christ when he fed the multitudes and nourished not only the flesh, but the spirit.
Thanksgiving Day is a home day. During the year members of the family may wander, and grow thoughtless of one another, so absorbed does each become in his own interests, but when Thanksgiving Day approaches all thoughts turn toward home and all that it stands for. An irresistible longing for loved ones brings us back to the family fireside. Truly, it is a communion when both the flesh and the spirit are nourished, and each soul acknowledges the goodness of God. Many there are who have families to return to; many there are who have not. Welcome the stranger and the poor to your board on this day of Thanksgiving, as Christ welcomed the lonely and the outcast to share with Him. Thanksgiving Day is a sacred day; let the spreading of the linen cloth be one of hospitality, charity, and good will for all.