Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
NOVEMBER — The Armistice sublime came to an anxious world in Autumn time.
NO more frontiers? In our America lie long canyons and gulches where, if ever, not for decades the foot of man has trod. Here are virgin forests where trees rise above trees, from the base to the summit of the mountain side, towering to the skies, silhouetted against the heavens like sentinels, and all reflected in the lakes below; winter and summer an emerald green, and in between, yards of ferns and mosses and flowers rare. Over the soft carpet of the pine needles roam deer, bear and fox, furry squirrels and chipmunks in harmony serene. It might be Paradise or Eden where all is peace and no more fear. The heart beats high, the head is bowed, the knee is bent in reverence to such magnificence, for only God could make a world so beautiful.
AMY BROWN LYMAN, of Utah, prominent sociologist, recently returned from a two years' sojourn in Europe. She attended as a delegate two of the great Congresses of the International Council of Women, one in Jugoslavia and one in Scotland. Among the groups of distinguished men and women with whom she associated she found all willing to forego individual interests in behalf of world peace, determined, especially if women's influence can be felt, that there shall be no more war.
EVE CURIE, scientist, author, and candidate for the French Parliament, shines now according to Paris modists as one of the ten best dressed women of 1938.
PAULINA OSIPENKO, Marina Raskova and Valentina Grizadubova, three Soviet women, established a new international distance record for women last month in their flight from Moscow to Manchoukuo.
DEANNA DURBIN, charming and gifted, is said to be "cinema's ablest specialist in roles of school-age girls since Mary Pickford."
MARY PARRISH HOWELLS, 85, Mary Burmingham, 90; Hanna Anderson, 95, all of Utah and pioneers, still take their daily constitutional walk and enjoy the birthday parties given by friends. Like Catherine M. Isaacs, 103, of Nova Scotia, who says she "does not want to live to be old," they believe age is just a matter of mind, as does Gertrude Atherton, novelist, who at 81 has just published another book.
JOSEPHINE KIMBALL of New York runs a children's bookshop, where for a sideline she has a doll department de luxe. Dolls are dressed to represent characters in children's classics.
LADY ELEANOR SMITH'S "The Spanish House," Margaret Byer's "Designing Women," Margaret Halsey's "With Malice Toward Some," "Rebecca," by Daphne Du Maurier and "Sister Eileen," by Ruth McKenney, are last month's popular books.
 
Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Ida P. Beal Belle S. Spafford
Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson
Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jengen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow