VOL. XXV NOVEMBER, 1938 No. 11
Editorial
General Conference
ONCE again Church members from many states and countries assembled in conference to receive instructions, counsel and inspiration from those chosen to lead. These semi-annual gatherings increase the faith, renew the enthusiasm and spiritually strengthen all who attend. The practical aspects as well as the spiritual aims of our religion were forcefully presented at the recent sessions. Keenly alive to conditions of our day which demand the highest type of citizenship Latter-day Saint standards were clearly defined and members admonished to live by these standards. Our venerable Prophet opened the Conference with a strong defense of work as a spiritual and health boon to mankind, saying, "Work is pleasing to the Lord." The present-day need and importance of honesty was emphasized; not honesty restricted to the commandment, "Thou shalt not steal," but an all-inclusive honesty?fidelity to promises, honesty of purpose, honesty of thought and deed. Selfishness was vigorously attacked as being responsible for many of the ills besetting the world today. The spiritual phases of our religion were stressed. Prayer as a daily guide in life was encouraged. The doctrine of Sabbath observance, which was declared to be "a very old doctrine of the Church," and yet one which is being more and more flagrantly disregarded, was courageously defended and the benefits accruing from strict adherence to it were convincingly presented. Our religion constantly holds before us such concepts as truth, justice, honesty, charity, brotherly love; it has always dignified labor, and taught with vigor the doctrine of thrift and industry. Most of the inhibitions which restrain us from wrong doing and most of the ideals which lead to strong character and to a wholesome social order are ours because of our religious teachings. Men and women are incapable of making a good life as individuals or a good society collectively without the assistance of ideals, and where can higher ones be found than in the doctrines of the Church? That these be reiterated often is imperative; that they be interpreted and re-interpreted in the light of current needs by divinely called and inspired leaders is essential. It is well that Church members assemble to hear.
Editor Belle S. Spafford Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Relief Society Conference
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held its semi-annual conference October 4, 5, 6, 1938 in Salt Lake City, Utah. Due to the great importance of the Church Welfare Program, which the Relief Society wished to stress, an extra day was added to the usual period. There were ten meetings in all.
President Louise Y. Robison presided over the Conference, which opened with a short meeting in the Assembly Hall, Temple Square, at 9:00 a. m., Tuesday, October 4. A hearty welcome was extended to the sisters in a brief address from President Robison before adjournment was taken to the various departments. The committees of the General Board spared neither time nor effort in the preparation of the various department meetings which were attended by a large and enthusiastic number of workers from the stakes and missions.
There were two sessions of the General Officers' meeting held in the Assembly Hall on Wednesday, October 5. The first convened at 9:00 A. M. and was devoted to the regular business of the Relief Society. One hundred and twenty stakes and thirteen missions responded to the roll call. The second session beginning at 10:30 was devoted to the special assignment given to Relief Society in the Church Welfare Program.
The first general assembly was held in the Tabernacle, Wednesday, October 5, at 2:00 P. M. At this session the music was furnished by a group of more than two hundred Singing Mothers from the California Mission.
Two general sessions were held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, October 6. At the afternoon meeting special attention was again given to Relief Society participation in Church welfare. The music at all meetings should be given special praise for it was all of the highest order from the special instrumental and vocal numbers, especially appropriate to the various departments, to the Relief Society Singing Mothers under the able direction of Wade N. Stephens with Alta Cassity at the piano and Frank W. Asper at the great organ.