[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Jennings]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 559
Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2
Remodeling Dresses Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, November g, 1948 wat are we going to do with the old dresses that are either out of style or worn out in some places so that they can no longer be used as they are, but are too good to throw away? In this lesson we want to consider the possibilities for remodeling them so they can be worn by the original wearer. Often it is quite easy to get more wear out of an old garment by buying some new material and combining it with the old and getting a very satisfactory result. However, in too many cases the new material has a tendency to increase the shabbiness of the old by contrast and the extra cost involved is not warranted. The obvious conclusion is that it would be much better to choose the fabric from another outmoded garment rather than add new to the old. In this way we have one new dress for two old ones. There are various possible combinations in this method of fashioning a new dress. One could combine a print with a plain material that either blended or contrasted satisfactorily with it. Or a silk dress might be used with one of wool that was harmonious. Still another possibility is that of combining fabrics of the same color but contrasting texture such as satin and crepe; faille and light weight wool; or velveteen with wool. The style chosen to make over the garments would naturally have to depend on the lines in the original garment. One would need to choose a pattern that could be adapted to the lines of the old dresses. Here are some possible suggestions: In case the old dress is no longer usable because the sleeves have pulled out at the seams, or worn out under the arms or at the elbows, try making new sleeves with a large deep armhole out of the other old dress. Have them shaped in such a way that they can be set back as far or as low as necessary to eliminate the worn places. A contrasting yoke can be set in the waist of an old dress to perk it up. Or an entire new front can be made for the blouse part of the dress. And to carry the contrasting color elsewhere, the skirt could be lengthened with bands of the same material as the blouse front or yoke. One could have the entire skirt of one material and the blouse entirely of another with the exception of a collar, tie or some other trimming to carry the skirt color up and thus unify the costume. At the present time in many cases good dresses will be out of active service because they are too short. To bring them back to high style one might add a contrasting peplum 

  AUGUST 1948 under which the skirt could be dropped by adding a yoke and thus give it the required length. The material from which the peplum is made could be used for collar and cuffs, or neck bow, or buttons, thus carrying it into the blouse.
This treatment is particularly attractive in the case of material of the same color but contrasting texture.
Often by hunting in pattern books for styles that show contrasting materials some very helpful ideas can be found.