[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Highlights of Driggs]

Literature — Literature of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Lesson 2— Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, November i6, 1948 THE following excerpt from the Autobiography oi Parley P.
Piatt offers an excellent literary introduction too our lesson. Parley, on a mission for the ''Campbellites," had neared Palmyra and made arrangements to hold a meeting. He writes : We visited an old Baptist deacon by the name of Hamlin.
After hearing of our appointment for evening, he began to tell of a book, A STRANGE BOOK, a VERY STRANGE BOOK! in his possession, which had just been published.
This book, he said, purported to have been originally written on plates either of gold or brass, by a branch of the tribes of Israel! and to have been discovered and translated by a young man near Palmyra, in the State of New York, by the aid of visions, or the ministering of angels. I inquired of him how or where the book was to be obtained. He promised me the perusal of it, at his house the next day, if I would call. I felt a strange interest in the book ....
Next morning I called at his house, where, for the first time, my eyes beheld the BOOK OF MORMON,— that book of books — that record which reveals the antiquities of the New World back to the remotest ages, and which unfolds the destiny of its people and the world for all time to come — that Book which contains the fulness of the gospel of a crucified and risen Redeemer — that Book which reveals a lost remnant of Joseph, and which was the principal means, in the hands of God, of directing the entire course of my future life. I opened it with eagerness, and read its title page. I then read the testimony of several witnesses in relation to the manner of its being found and translated.
After this I commenced its contents by course. I read all day; eating was a burden. I had no desire for food; sleep was a burden when the night came, for I preferred reading to sleep. As I read, the spirit of the Lord was upon me, and I knew and comprehended that the book was true, as plainly and manifestly as a man comprehends and knows that he exists. My joy was now full, as it were, and I rejoiced sufficiently to more than pay me for all the sorrows, sacrifices and toils of my life. I soon determined to see the young man who had been the instrument to its discovery and translation (Autobiography of Pailey P. Pratt, chapter V).
What is there in this "book of books" so to intrigue a man of such outstanding intelligence as we know Parley P.
Pratt possessed?
What is in this scripture that charms and LESSON DEPARTMENT holds readers of open mind and 561 heart whatever their station in life?
First of all, it would seem to be the epic story of the Book of Mormon itself. An epic, we should explain, isa composite story— a series of stories, if you will, that portrays a people. And such indeed is the epic of the Book of Mormon. Secondly, the simple yet profound portrayal of the gospel.
Stories woven into the Book of Mormon epic are of distinctive quality.
Like those in the Old and New Testament they have not only intriguing interest, but inner meaning—deep spiritual import.
They live and last in the souls of those who appreciate them. Let us consider here a few of these stories, from a literary viewpoint, as well as from the messages of truth they vitalize. A first of these, which challenged the writer's intense interest even in boyhood, is one which might be entitled: "A Heroic Youth Serves His Peoples. " story, which is told in full, I Nephi, chapters 3 and 4, has all the qualities of a classic. It presents a vital problem— the procuring of a sacred, saving record. It portrays a clash of negative and positive spirits, represented int he brothers Laman and Nephi. It moves with precision and rising interest.
Difficulties and danger enhance the drama.
Crises are met with heroism, and success achieved. The plates of brass, containing scripture beyond price for the adventures in a new world, are delivered to the prophet-leader, Lehi.
Within this dramatic story there is also something deeper than a mere tale for entertainment.
First of all. it impresses unforgettably the vital, saving value of the written word of God for any people. Secondly, it lifts into the clear, precious truths. Two of these stand out: . . . the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I Nephi 3:7). It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief (I Nephi 4:13).
Through other stirring narrative, given as the epic naturally develops, the meaningful events are portrayed.
With the sacred record on the brass plates, which contained much of what we know as the Old Testament, including the vital prophecies of Isaiah, to guide and inspire them, the band under their living prophet Lehi fared forth into the unknown. It was a new journey into the wilderness and across the wide waters to a new land of Promise."
Note the beauty of Lehi’s counsel to hiss sons Laman and Lemuel. And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain of all righteousness! And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord! (I Nephi 2:9-10). And the great adventure was filled, as was that of the other children of Israel, with drama.
Misgivings and even conflict within the families add LESSON DEPARTMENT holds readers of open mind and heart whatever their station in life?
First of all, it would seem to be the epic story of the Book of Mormon itself. An epic, we should explain, is a composite story a series of stories, if you will, that portrays a people. And such indeed is the epic of the Book of Mormon. Secondly, the simple yet profound portrayal of the gospel.
Stories woven into the Book of Mormon epic are of distinctive quality.
Like those in the Old and New Testament they have not only intriguing interest, but inner meaning deep spiritual import.
They live and last in the souls of those who appreciate them. Let us consider here a few of these stories, from a literary viewpoint, as well as from the messages of truth they vitalize. A first of these, which challenged the writer's intense interest even in boyhood, is one which might be entitled: ""A Heroic Youth Serves His: People."
This story, which is told in full, I Nephi, chapters 3 and 4, has all the qualities of a classic. It presents a vital problem the procuring of a sacred, saving record. It portrays a clash of negative and positive spirits, represented in the brothers Laman and Nephi. It moves with precision and rising interest.
Difficulties and danger enhance the drama.
Crises are met with heroism, and success achieved. The plates of brass, containing scripture beyond price for the adventures in a new world, are delivered to the prophet-leader, Lehi.
Within this dramatic story there is also something deeper than a mere tale for entertainment.
First of all, 561 it impresses unforgettably the vital, saving value of the written word of God for any people. Secondly, it lifts into the clear, precious truths. Two of these stand out:... The Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I Nephi 3:7). It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief (1
Nephi 4:13).
Through other stirring narrative, given as the epic naturally develops, the meaningful events are portrayed.
With the sacred record on the brass plates, which contained much of what we know as the Old Testament, including the vital prophecies of Isaiah, to guide and inspire them, the band under their living prophet Lehi fared forth into the unknown. It was a new journey into the wilderness and across the wide waters to a new "Land of Promise."
Note the beauty of Lehi's counsel to his sons, Laman and Lemuel: And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain of all righteousness! And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord! (I Nephi 2:9-10). ~ And the great adventure was filled, as was that of the other children of Israel, with drama.
Misgivings and even conflict within the families add to natural difficulties (I Nephi, chaps. 2-7). At times the Lord must use reproof and sharp correction to keep rebellious spirits such as Laman and Lemuel from 562 thwarting the divine purpose which is being unfolded under the courageous leadership of Lehi and his loyal son Nephi.
This is the central purpose of the Book of Mormon epic: to impress the truth that our Savior lives. All its stories, the doctrines they carry  all its quotations from Isaiah, who clearly visioned the Messiah, bear directly or indirectly on this divine message to mankind. To keep this clearly in mind will help those who follow this lesson, and who may continue to study the epic, better to understand the great composite story.
Another thing of import; and this is plainly stated by Nephi: Emphasis is laid in this scripture on "the things of God."
Says this prophet: Wherefore, the things which are pleasing unto the world I do not write, but the things which are pleasing unto God, and unto those who are not of the world. Wherefore, I shall give commandment unto my seed, that they shall not occupy these plates with things which are not of worth unto the children of men (I Ne phi 6:5-6). Literary "smart" folk have often spoken flippantly about the Book of Mormon as dull reading.
Even some of our own people more now than ever before, accustomed to swiftly moving, sensational fiction and drama at times confess they find it uninteresting. All of which is to say they are looking for something different from what this scriptural epic contains. Its stories are of a distinctive type.
They are laden with truths of priceless value, with discourses on deeply religious themes. In the Old Testament and the New Testament, the prophetic writings and the epistles
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 are, in the main, set apart. In the Book of Mormon such expository writings are woven into the stories that serve to vitalize and impress the teachings. Is this not good psychology?
Certainly the Master followed the same plan in making his lessons live.
They are inwoven with the incidents and stories which give them not only clarity but concreteness. A rather close parallel in the New Testament to the Book of Mormon epic structure may be found in "The Acts of the Apostles."
This likeness is shown, for example, in the story of the prophet Abinadi (See Mosiah chapters 11 to 17 inclusive).
Here is a stirring account of a heroic man of God who, like Peter and Paul, carried the word of the Lord to the unbelieving and wicked, even though in the end it meant martyrdom.