[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Dustin]
THE FIDDLERS Edna S. Dustin When you hear a cricket starting to tune His old bass fiddle, listen, and soon Others will join and start fiddling high C  If you wait, you will hear a great symphony. Four New Members Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Josie Barnson Bay Evelyn Wilde Heath Former President, San Bernardino Stake Relief Society EWS of the appointment on May 26, 1948, of Josie Barnson Bay Evelyn Wilde Heath Former President, San Bernandino Stake Relief Society NEWS of the appointment on ay 26, 1948, of Jose Barnson Bay to the general board of Relief Society will be happily received by her numerous devoted friends.
Words seem so inadequate to express her worth one thinks of the joyous glory of spring, with its sunshine, its warmth, its blossoms lovely blossoms that bring forth precious fruits. Jo, as we affectionately call her, is like that joyous, enthusiastic, progressive, with an infectious smile, and a heart that holds much warmth, friendliness, humility, and understanding.
Like the blossoms, she is not only lovely and charming, but she, too, brings forth precious fruits of wisdom, edifying all who associate with her. Her great knowledge and _testimony of the gospel are results of capable and untiring service in the Church. One of her finest qualities is her sincere love for people, which brings her that great power to organize, to gain co-operation, unity, and, consequently, unmeasured success, Josie was born in Junction, Utah, the daughter of John and Hannah Barnson, both staunch Latter-day Saints.
JOSIE BARNSON BAY
Her first responsible positions in Church work were: Primary president, then Y. W. M. I. A. President, both of Junction Ward. After her marriage to Ira M. Bay, who is most loyal and helpful and a sincere Church worker, they served as missionaries in the California Mission. Her first experience in Relief Society work was at that time as a counselor. Page 513
