[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Russells Did Not Go Chapter]
The  Russells  Did  Not  Go  to  Church— Chapter  I   
 Edith  Russell  523 
Questing   Lights— Chapter   5    
 Belle    Watson   Anderson  536 
Aunt  Millenium's   
 Deone   R.    Sutherland  540 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
Sixty  Years   Ago    530 
Woman's  Sphere   
 Ramona   W.    Cannon  531 
Editorial:   "A  Friend  Loveth  at  All  Times"   
 Marianne   C.   Sharp  532 
Notes  to  the  Field:     Annual    Stake    Conventions    Set    
  533 
Annual    Relief    Society    General    Conference       533 
Notes    From   the    Field:    
 General    Secretary-Treasurer,    Margaret    C.    Pickering  546 
From    Near   and   Far   
  576 
FEATURE  FOR  THE  HOME 
Heat  Waves  and  Salad  Days   
 Elizabeth   Williamson  534 
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
Theology:     "As  One  Having  Authority"    Elder  Don  B.  Colton  553 
Visiting  Teachers'  Messages:     "Where  Are  the  Nine?"    Elder  H.  Wayne  Driggs  558 
Work    Meeting — Sewing:      Remodeling    Dresses      Jean    Ridges    Jennings  559 
Literature:     Highlights  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  Epic    Elder  Howard  R.   Driggs  560 
Social  Science:     Some  Political  Doctrines  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  ....Elder  G.  Homer  Durham  565 
Optional   Lessons  in  Lieu   of   Social  Science:     The   Presidency  of   the   Prophet   Joseph   Smith 
(continued)    
 Elder   T.    Edgar   Lyon  568 
POETRY 
Summer  Day — Frontispiece  
 Beatrice  Knowlton  Ekman  505 
The   Fiddlers   
 Edna   S.    Dustin  512 
Petition  
 Eunice  J.   Miles  517 
Essentials   
 Alice   Whitson   Norton  527 
Mirror  
 Caroline   Eyring   Miner  528 
Summer  Shines  With  Silken  Showers    Helen  Martin  Home  575 
Bishop   Hyde   
 Michael    Burson  575 
Cinderellas   
 , 
 Katie   Harris   Lewis  575 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Oflfices  :  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah,  Phone  3-2741:  Sub- 
scriptions 246;  Editorial  Dept.  245.  Subscription  Price:  $1.50  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year; 
payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  15c.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No 
back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change 
of  address  at  once,  giving  both  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Oflfice,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103.  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  .June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not   responsible   for   unsolicited   manuscripts.

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
VOL.  35,  NO.  8  AUGUST  1948 
SUMMER  DAY 
Beatrice  Knowlton  Ekman 
The  summer  day  is  languorous  with  heat, 
And  through  my  window  near  the  gable  eaves 
There  floats  a  fragrant  incense,  nectar-sweet, 
From  honeysuckle  bloom  and  brier  leaves. 
The  turquoise  sky  is  mirrored  in  the  pool 
And  down  the  path  beneath  the  elm-tree  shade. 
The  overhanging  boughs  make  dim  and  cool 
The  earth,  where  changing  shadow  prints  are  laid. 
The  bees  are  noisy  in  the  linden  tree, 
A  sparrow  stalks  a  robin  on  the  grass. 
This  peaceful  quiet  sets  my  spirit  free 
And  I  could  wish  the  day  might  never  pass. 
The  Cover:    The  Idaho  Falls  Temple,  photograph  by  L.  W.  Bacon.

Grace  T.  Kirton 
WILD  HOLLYHOCKS

Planning  to  Provide  a 
Year's  Supply 
Eider  Mark  B.  Gaifi,  Member,  Genera]  Welfare  Committee,  and 
Gertrude  R.  Garff,  former  Counselor,  Relief  Society  General  Presidency 
But  if  any  provide  not  for  his  own,  and  specially  for  those  of  his  own  house,  he 
hath  denied  the  faith,  and  is  worse  than  an  infidel  (I  Timothy,  5:8). 
THE  ultimate  temporal  success  not  labor  with  our  own  hands  nor 
and  security  of  the  members  use  our  own  minds, 
of  the  Church  will  be    de-  The  Church  cannot  support  all  of 
termined  by  the  diligence  of  the  its  people;  nor  can  it  insure  tem- 
people    to    make    themselves    self-  poral  security  to  all  its  members.  It 
sustaining  in  all  respects.  can,  by  our  assistance  and  contribu- 
We  must  understand  that  we  are  tions,  insure  help  to  the  widow,  the 
not  only  to  sustain  ourselves,  but  fatherless,    the    handicapped,    and 
also  to  build  up  the  Church  finan-  those  who    may    temporarily    find 
cially  in  order  that  the  Church  as  themselves  in  financial  difficulty, 
an    organization    may    help    those  There  is  much  I  can  do  to  help 
members  who  have  met  with  mis-  myself  so  that  I  need  not  become  a 
fortune  and  find  it  impossible  to  burden  to  the  Church— provided  I 
help  themselves.  have  the  desire  to  do  so.  If  the  desire 
Everyone  is  a  potential  recipient  does   not  exist,   the   outcome   will 
of  help  within  the  Welfare  Plan  of  only  be  negative, 
the  Church.    No  one— with  few  ex-  The     desire     must     be     strong 
ceptions— can  justify  himself  in  ex-  enough  that  the  individual  will  be 
pecting  the  Church  to  take  care  of  willing  to  labor  with  his  own  hands, 
his  need  continually.  The  Welfare  to  recognize  that  work  is  honorable, 
Plan  was  given  to  rehabilitate  and  that  his  hands  will  be  stayed  from 
encourage  members,  to  bring  them  laying  hold   upon    another    man's 
back  to  a  point  of  self-sufficiency,  goods. 
The  plan  is  not  a  dole.    It  is  not  a  There  is  a  magic  of  power  in  the 
process  of  continually  contributing  strength  of  one's  own  desires! 
to  the  individual,  who  can   (when  We  must  live  according  to  our 
properly  directed)  be  self-sustaining,  income;  our  power  to  save  must  be 
Every  man  longs  for  security,  no  greater  than   our  desire  to  spend, 
matter    how    humble    his    circum-  We  must  live  upon  less  than  we 
stances  may  be;  but  there  is  no  jus-  earn   and   seek  advice   from    those 
tification  in  expecting  the  Church  who  are  competent,  through  their 
to  give  us  such  security  if  we  will  experience  and  calling,  to  give  ad- 
[This  and  the  other  two  articles  on  storage,  pages  527  and  529,  are  published  with  the 
hope  that  they  may  assist  Latter-day  Saint  families  to  store  commodities  as  urged  for 
many  years  by  Church  leaders. — Ed.] 
Page  507