[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Driggs]

AUGUST 1948
Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Savior Speaks Lesson 2 "Where Are the Nine?" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 2, 1948
Objective: To warn against the sin of ingratitude. And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger (Luke 17:11-18). "And he was a Samaritan." It is significant in the parable quoted that the one leper to return and glorify God was "a stranger," one who knew not the "law" as Israel. We may be led to believe that the other nine belonged to the faith, a fact which in itself may or may not add to the lesson. It does remain that the majority of those healed forgot all sense of gratitude in the personal joy of their deliverance. What is it that the Lord would require of them who would show gratitude to him? First and foremost he has said to exhibit love  love which above all is unselfish and remembers blessings bestowed. In a world today which places such emphasis on material values, we are apt to take for granted many blessings which money cannot buy. How can we in the Church be not like the "nine" in the things: the Lord would have us remember? Perhaps we can best show our appreciation by recognizing often the less obvious daily blessings the Church affords. Let us think a deacon knocks at the door to ask for fast offerings, a chorister stimulates to loftier thoughts during song practice, a teacher invites active thinking of gospel truths, an elder comes to lay hands on a dear one who suffers pain, and two Relief Society visiting teachers call at a home in a spirit of love. For these and many other sweet services the Lord would have us grateful, for they come as do all his gifts without money and without price. Mothers in the home have a great responsibility to teach their children to express gratitude: first, through prayer to the Lord and thanks for all they have; then, gratitude to parents, brothers, sisters, relatives and associates for their unselfish acts of love and service. Any child who, from youth, is thus taught, will not be found among the nine. "Where are the nine?" (Luke 17: 11-18).