CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS. 253 indeed, during the closing years of Miss Anthony's life, there came to the suffrage movement that other peerless organizer, orator and statesman, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. She combines within herself many of the gifts of her predecessors, with an added poise and tact, which makes her universally revered. It would be impossible in this article to give anything like a complete history of the movement, but we have culled and abridged the brief history written by Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, of the National Suffrage Movement, and also the four suffrage chapters written for the Relief Society by the General Historian, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, which will later be published in the history itself. IDA HUSTED HARPER "June 4, 1919, will forever be Independence Day for American women as July 4 is for the nation. On this day the Senate of the United States, by a vote of two more than two-thirds, adopted the resolution to submit to the State Legislatures an amendment to the National Constitution, which, ratified by three-fourths of them, would give the complete suffrage to women. It had passed the House of Representatives May 21. As soon as the Senate voted, the resolution was signed by the Speaker of the House, and the following day the Vice-president, as president of the Senate, affixed his signature. The gold pen was presented to the National American Woman Suffrage Association for its archives in 
 recognition of its fifty years of continuous effort for this amendment. "Before this federal amendment could become effective it had to be ratified by the Legislatures of thirty-six States, three-fourths of the whole number. The large majority of them meet biennially, in the uneven years, and had adjourned before June 4, but a few were still in session, and of these, Illinois, Wisconsin and Michigan ratified it within six days of its submission, and Pennsylvania and Massachusetts a little later. "Governors Alfred E. Smith, of New York, and Henry Allen, of Kansas, were the first to call special sessions, followed by Governors W. L. Harding, of Iowa;  Frederick D. Gardner, of Missouri;  Charles H. Brough, of Arkansas;  Samuel R. McKelvie, of Nebraska;  Thomas E. Campbell, of Arizona;  Oliver L. Shoup, of Colorado;  James P. Goodrich, of Indiana;  Samuel V. Stewart, of Montana;  Peter Norbeck, of South Dakota;  Simon Bamberger, of Utah;  Robert D. Carey, of Wyoming;  Wm. B. Stephens, of California. A special session of the Texas Legislature had already been called." The final achievement of the suffrage victory was acclaimed at Chicago, February 12 to 28, in a great convention presided over magnificently by Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. This date was Utah's own jubilee date, as our suffrage bill was signed on Feb. 12, 1870. A resume of the conference was given in our last number, so that we will not repeat it here. It is significant, however, that Mrs. Susa Young Gates represented in herself the earliest pioneer voter present in Chicago, she having married at sixteen and cast her vote in 1872. The next pioneer voter present was Dr. Hebard, of Wyoming, who voted in 1882. Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler represented the second generation of voters, her mother having voted in 1870;  while Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith represented the third and fourth generation of voters, her great grandmother and two grandmothers having voted in 1870. The three Utah women who will receive the gold honor pins are: Dr. Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, and Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Mrs. Kesler and Mrs. Smith and others received honor badges and certificates. It was interesting to know that Mrs. Whitney Smith represented through her great grandmother, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, the first counsellor of the Relief Society organized in Nauvoo, in 1842. Mrs. Kesler as the grand niece of the Prophet Joseph Smith and grand-daughter of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and the daughter of President Joseph F. Smith, was a wonderfully SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 255 historical representative;  while Mrs. Gates represented President Brigham Young, who followed the Prophet in his ministry. What does the future hold for the women of the state, nation and of the world? That question lies peacefully on the closed eyes of the future, while women go quietly on keeping pace with circumstance and opportunity. BRIEF HISTORY OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE. (Written by Ida Husted Harper, and published, April, 1919, National Woman Suffrage Publishing Co., Inc., 171 Madison Avenue, New York.) As America was the first country in which was made the experiment of a representative government by men, it is natural that it should be the first in which women asked a representation. The very first woman to make this demand, so far as known, was Mistress Margaret Brent, of Maryland, in 1647. She was heir of Lord Calvert, the brother of Lord Baltimore, and executor of the estates of both in the colony, and as representation in the legislature was based on property, she demanded "place and voice" — two votes — in that body. Her petition was hotly debated for several hours and finally denied. The precedent was then established which legislatures have been following ever since when women have petitioned for "place and voice." The colonial records of Massachusetts show that women property holders vote under the Old Providence Charter from 1691 to 1780 for all elective officers. When a constitution was adopted they were excluded from a vote for governor and legislature, but retained it for other officials. Under the close restrictions not one-fourth of the men could vote. In March, 1776, Mrs. Abigail Adams wrote to her husband, John Adams, in the Continental Congress: *T long to hear that you have declared an independency, and, by the way, in the new code of laws which I suppose it will be necessary for you to make, I desire you would remember the ladies and be more generous and favorable to them than were your ancestors. Do not put such unlimited power into the hands of husbands. Remember, all men would be tyrants if they could. If particular care and attention are not paid to the ladies, we are determined to foment a rebellion, and will not hold ourselves bound to obey any laws in which we have no voice or representation." As Mrs. Adams used the plural "we," she undoubtedly spoke also for Mrs. Mercy Otis Warren. Mrs. Hannah Lee Corbin and other women of 
 influence closely associated with the leading men of the Revolution. In 1778, Mrs. Corbin, sister of Richard Henry Lee, of Virginia, presented her own petition for the right to vote. The Continental Congress left the suffrage to be dealt with by the states in their constitutions, and New Jersey was the only one which conferred it on women, its constitution giving the franchise to "all inhabitants worth $250, etc." In 1790 a revision of the election law used the words "he or she," thus emphasizing the inclusion of women in the electorate. Enough women voted to gain the enmity of politicians, and in 1807 the legislature passed an arbitrary act limiting the suffrage to "white male citizens." This was clearly a usurpation of authority, as the constitution could be legally changed only by action of the voters. In 1826 Frances Wright, a young Scotchwoman of beauty, education and wealth, came to the United States to carry out ideas similar to those put into practice by Robert Dale Owen in his colony at New Harmony, Indiana. In 1836 Ernestine L. Rose, daughter of a rabbi in Poland, banished from her native country because of her progressive ideas, came to this one. While these individual efforts were being made the great anti-slavery question was growing more momentous. In 1826 Sarah and Angelina Grimke, of South Carolina, emancipated their slaves, came north and by their impassioned speeches aroused public sentiment. Garrison soon entered the contest, and the American Anti-slavery Society was formed. From the beginning women were prominently identified with this movement, and the names of Lucretia Mott, Lydia Maria Child, Maria Weston Chapman, Abby Kelly, Abby Hopper Gibbons and many others soon became widely known. The whole question of human rights was thoroughly canvassed and women then began to recognize their own and to take part in the business meetings and putting into effect her resolution made in London, until 1848. opposition that in 1830 it was rent in twain on this point. The question of woman's right to take public part in this movement was carried to the World's Anti-slavery Convention in London, in June, 1840, which refused to recognize the women delegates from the United States, who included Lucretia Mott and Mrs. Wendell Phillips. It was at this time that Mrs. Mott and Mrs. Stanton, a bride, decided that on their return to the United States they would organize a movement especially for the rights of women. Mrs. Stanton had been prevented by family cares from SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 257 putting into effect her resolution made in London, until 1848. In July of that year, Lucretia Mott and her sister, Martha C. Wright, of Auburn, New York, were attending the Yearly Meeting of Friends in Western New York, at Waterloo, where Mrs. Stanton joined them in the home of Mrs. Mary Ann McClintock, and here they decided to carry out the long cherished idea. One Sunday morning the four prepared their declaration and resolution, and sent a call, which they did not dare sign, to the county papers for a two-days' convention to be held in the Wesleyan chapel, at Senaca Falls, Mrs. Stanton's home, "to discuss the social, civil and religious condition and rights of woman." On the 19th and 20th of July the church was filled with people curious and interested to know what the meeting was for. James Mott presided and addresses were made by the four callers of the convention, by Frederick Douglass and several men prominent in the locality. The declaration and resolutions were discussed, the latter adopted and the former signed by one hundred men and women, some of whom withdrew their names when "the storm of ridicule began to break." This declaration stated the whole case for women as comprehensively as it ever has been stated since;  the resolutions comprised practically every demand that ever afterwards was made for women, and taken together they formed a remarkable document. Miss Anthony first met Mrs. Stanton in 1851 and from that time organized work for woman's rights began to take shape in New York. The first conventions were principally in the interest of temperance, but in these the rights of women at once took the lead. In 1852 a bona fide woman's rights convention, with delegates present from eight states, and Canada, was held in Syracuse. It brought to the front the wonderful galaxy of women whose names were henceforth connected with this movement and here began its fiftyfour years leadership by Miss Anthony. From that time until the present, with the interim of the Civil war, the work has actively continued in this state. In May, 1850, during an anti-slavery convention in Boston, a few women in attendance decided to call a convention to discuss exclusively the rights of women, and the time and place were fixed for October 23 and 24 in Worcester. The arrangements were made principally by Lucy Stone and Mrs. Paulina Wright Davis, and from the holding of this convention the woman's rights movement may be said to have assumed a national aspect. Nine states were represented by speakers and among these were Garrison, Phillips, Pillsburg, Foster, 
 Burleigh, Douglass, Channing, Mrs. Mott, Mrs. Rose, Abby Kelly, Lucy Stone, Antoinette Brown, Dr. Harriet K. Hunt, and many more of note, and letters were read from Emerson, Alcott, Whittier, Gerrit, Smith, Joshua R. Giddings, Mrs. Swissheim, Elizur Wright, Mrs. Stanton and others. Mrs. Davis presided. A national committee was formed, under whose management conventions were held annually in various cities, while the question was always thereafter a leading one in Massachusetts. An Equal Rights Association had been formed to promote the interests of both negroes and white women, but in 1860 the latter were forced to recognize the necessity for a separate organization if they were not to be entirely sacrificed. At the close of a meeting of this Equal Rights Association in New York, women who had come from nineteen states to attend it, met at the Woman's Bureau in East Twenty-third street, May 15, 1869, and formed a National Woman Suffrage Association, whose object should be to secure a sixteenth amendment to the National Constitution which would enfranchise women. Mrs. Stanton was made president and Miss Anthony was put on the executive committee. In 1892, Mrs. Stanton resigned her office because of advancing age;  Miss Anthony was elected president, and the Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, vice-president. Miss Anthony resigned in 1900 at the age of 80, and Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt was elected. In 1904 she could not serve longer and Miss Shaw was made president. In 1915 she resigned and Mrs. Catt was re-elected. Until 1895 the work of the National American Association was conducted principally from the home of Miss Anthony in Rochester, New York. That year Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, who was corresponding secretary for twenty-one years, shared the burden by opening office headquarters in her home at Philadelphia. In 1900 regular headquarters were opened in New York City under the supervision of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, chairman of the national organization committee. In 1903 they were removed to Warren, Ohio, and placed in charge of Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, national treasurer. In 1909 headquarters on a large scale were established in New York City, with offices for the president, corresponding secretary, chairman of the press committee, and an office staff of eight or ten workers. In March, 1917, the Leslie Bureau of Suffrage Education was established in New York with the large bequest of Mrs. Frank Leslie to Mrs. Chapman Catt for the promotion of woman suffrage, and it works in co-operation with the national SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 259 association. In the two organizations is a force of about forty trained workers, in addition to the president, corresponding secretary, treasurer, one auditor and chairman, of the press committee. A weekly magazine, "The Woman Citizen," was commenced in June under the auspices of the Leslie commission, founded in 1870. taking over "The Woman's Journal," of Boston, In December, 1912, the congressional committee of the national association, opened headquarters in Washington and began active campaign for its original object — an amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The association is a federation of state suffrage organizations. It is affiliated with the International Alliance, in which twenty-seven countries are officially represented. In 1914 the National Woman Suffrage Publishing Co., Inc., was formed and took charge of the literature department. In five years it has published 50,000,000 pieces of literature 18,000,000;  during the New York campaign in 1917. Suffrage in Utah. When the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized the Prophet Joseph Smith freely and voluntarily admitted women to complete religious citizenship from the very first. They voted side by side with their husbands and fathers on all questions pertaining to the choice of officers of the Church, and policies to be adopted. This was a tremendous concession in the year 1830 when no women and few men voted in any church body. Starting with this advantage which was founded upon the doctrine of "common consent," as revealed to the Prophet in June, 1830, (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 26) the women labored side by side with their husbands and fathers in making history, building homes and towns, and accompanied them in their mobbings and drivings, locating finally on the bank of the Mississippi at Nauvoo, in 1840. Here in 1842, March 17, the great and original organization, the Relief Society, was formed, in which women were given at the outset the privilege of choosing their own officers, form of government, and shaping their own policies. After the martyrdom of the Prophet, Brigham Young led the people to the Rocky Mountains and continued the conduct of the civil and religious affairs of the people as had been done by the Prophet himself. Before congress conferred a territorial form of govern- MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL MRS. EMMBLINE B. WELLS MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 261 ment upon the pioneer community of Utah, in 1852, women held the elective franchise as well as the religious vote in the new territory, between the years 1847-52. Bancroft's "History of Utah," refers to this communal form of government practiced in our earliest settlement, in the following language: "During this period men and women voted by ballot in matters relating to government. Women had already voted in religious meetings by the uplifted hand, but this is probably the first instance in the United States where woman suffrage was permitted. Utah at that time, however, was not a part of the United States, and before its admission as a territory the government privilege was withdrawn," by the United States government is an interesting fact that men themselves in any country have never had universal suffrage, so far as is known, until the middle of the last century, and that only in the United States of America. All suffrage privileges for them down the ages have been circumscribed by the accident of birth, by prowess, by property qualifications, or by mental acquirements. The "free" English, French and Swiss voter is still hedged about by these more or less confining requirements. Chancellor James Kent of New York (1763-1847), author of "Kent's Commentaries," in a constitutional convention held in 1821 in New York, declared that he 'would not "bow down before the idol of universal suffrage." meaning male suffrage;  "the theory," he said, "that had been regarded with terror by the wise men of every age," and whenever tried had "brought corruption, injustice, violence and tyranny." If universal suffrage were adopted, he declared, "posterity would deplore in sackcloth and ashes, the delusion of the day. "It was not until between 1840 and 1850 that universal suffrage among the white males came to be accepted even in these free United States of ours. Women are sometimes deceived with the thought that all men. at all times, have exercised the full civil and religious franchise, while, as a matter of fact, in very few of the churches today, certainly not in the established orthodox ones, do men have complete religious rights, much less do they hold the priesthood;  while never, so far as history records, have they exercised universal civil suffrage such as is prevalent in the United States today. The agitation for woman suffrage which began as related at the close of this article with the Woman's Rights Convention at Senaca Falls, New York, in 1848, gathered volume and force after the Civil war. through the efforts of those pioneers, Lucretia Mott. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. 
 Anthony, Abbey Rielly Foster, Sarah Grimke, Maria Child, and Lucy Stone, for equal rights for white women, for black men and black women. This agitation finally brought about the granting of woman suffrage to the women of Wyoming by the Territorial Legislature in the fall of 1869. President Brigham Young was very much impressed with this liberal and just action of Wyoming. Calling into council the leading men of the legislature. President George H. Smith, Abram O. Smoot, George Q. Cannon, and William Maughn, he suggested the advisability of granting the right of suffrage to the women of Utah, committing the responsibility of the whole measure to Abram O. Smoot. The bill for woman suffrage was introduced into the Legislature by George Q. Cannon on February 9, 1870, but was fathered by A. O. Smoot, chairman of the committee of the whole, with George Q. Cannon, Willard Maughn and Lorenzo Snow as members. Naturally the bill met with no opposition from the husbands and sons of women who had sat side by side for forty years, voting with uplifted hands, on civil and religious matters. The bill was sent to Acting-Governor Mann for his signature. The legislature thought full suffrage had been granted, but a non-"Mormon" governor later refused to let women hold office as the Suffrage Act referred only to the voting privilege. As an illuminating evidence of the attitude of Utah's foremost women on this momentous question note the speeches delivered at a meeting of the Relief Society, as found in the "Deseret News." "Minutes of the Female Relief Society, February 19, 1870, seven days after the passage of the bill and two days before the municipal election. — Most of the wards of the city were represented. Miss E. R. Snow was elected president, and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, secretary. "Meeting opened with singing;  prayer by Mrs. Harriet Cook Young. "Miss Eliza R. Snow arose and said: 'To encourage the sisters in good works, she would read an account of our indignation meeting, as it appeared in the "Sacramento Union; " which account she thought a very fair one.' She also stated that an expression of gratitude was due Acting-Governor Mann for signing the document granting woman suffrage in Utah, for we could not have had the right without his sanction, and said that Wyoming had passed a bill of this kind over its Governor's head, but we could not have done this. SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 263 "The following names were unanimously selected to be a committee for said purpose: Eliza R. Snow, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M. Kimball. M. T. Smoot, H. C. Young, N. D. Young, Phebe Woodruff, M. I. Home, M. N. Hyde, Elizabeth Cannon, Rachel Grant, Amanda Smith, Amelia F. Young and President H. Kimball. "Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, that staunch patriot, suffrage orator and organizer, said 'she had waited patiently a long time, and now that we were granted the right of suffrage, she would openly declare herself a woman's rights woman, and called upon those who would do so to back her up, whereupon many manifested their approval. She said her experience in life had been different from that of many. She had moved in all grades of society;  had been both rich and poor;  had always seen much good and intelligence in women. The interests of man and woman cannot be separated;  for the man is not without the woman nor the woman without the man in the Lord. She spoke of the foolish custom which deprived the mother of having control over her sons at a certain age;  said she saw the foreshadowing of a brighter day in this respect in the future. She said she had entertained ideas that appeared wild, which she thought would yet be considered woman's rights;  spoke of the remarks made by Brother Rockwood, lately, that women would have as much prejudice to overcome, in occupying certain positions as men would in granting them, and concluded by declaring that woman was the helpmate of man in every department of life.' " The captain of Utah's woman-host, Eliza R. Snow, was foremost in all this labor as in every other during her period of public activity;  let she turned over the active direction of this suffrage movement to that champion of equal rights, Sarah M. Kimball. For many years Mrs. Kimball was the "Mormon" suffrage standard bearer. It would be less than justice if it were not here recorded that her active brain, her unselfish devotion to the work of God and her magnificent organizing powers, bore rich fruit during this vital period (1868-1893) in the history of woman's development in the Church. Following her in the leadership of the suffrage forces was that other indomitable pioneer. President Emmeline B. Wells. patriot, Mrs. Then Emilyin S. later years who Richards, came ably that conducted no less suffrage splendid affairs in this state in the later years. After the letter of gratitude to Acting-Governor Mann was received he courteously replied to it, expressing a confident hope that "the ladies of Utah would so exercise the 
 right conferred as to approve the wisdom of the Legislature." Nine days later, February 21, occurred the first municipal election in Salt Lake City. The first woman to vote that day, and consequently the first in Utah and in the United States to exercise the elective franchise, was Miss Seraph Young, daughter of B. H. Young, Esq., and grand-niece to President Brigham Young, herself a beautiful, refined and cultured young woman. Wyoming passed the suffrage measure November 9,1869, but had no election till the fall of 1870. Utah women voted twice be SERAPH YOUNG Wyoming women voted at all. We "her sisters " November. vowed again in September, and then in No This political period was notable also for the organization of an independent political party, the Liberals — Non- "Mormon" — as opposed to the People's Party — "Mormon." Acting at once, upon the new rights accorded to women, the People's Party committee contained then, and afterwards, the names of two or more women. M. Isabella Home, Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, and later, Emily S. Richards, all had places in the governing state committee of that political party. Following this, suffrage became a vital topic in Relief Society meetings, in social gatherings and around the fireside. The women of Utah were, encouraged not only to attend their primaries religiously, but were enjoined to form civil government classes, to institute mock trials, and to study parliamentary law. They received their best training, however, in the actual participation in civic affairs. Persuaded that the franchise was a duty as well as a privilege, the women voters left their homes and cradles for the political primary and for local and county conventions. The inspiration of the Lord rested on Brigham Young and taught him breadth of sympathy on this question as on all others. He encouraged young women to enter any and all forms of public life where their circumstances and conditions were favorable. He often said that women were far better suited for merchandising, for county clerks, for school teachers, and other offices than were men. He had such perfect confidence in the poise and prudence of the women whose minds were lit up by the spirit of the Gospel that he would gladly have seen them enter every field of endeavor where nature and circumstances permitted. He always maintained SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 265 that all women's and children's diseases should be treated solely by women physicians and women nurses, and encouraged our pioneer woman physician, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, and those who followed her, to go east and take full medical courses. He encouraged the placing of women upon school boards and maintained that every public institution should contain on its board of officers at least two women whose quick insight and intuitive sympathy would protect the interests of all women and children who were beneficiaries of such institutions. He placed women upon the boards of the schools which bear his name. He constantly urged his own daughters to study the principles of government and to cast their votes with independence and wisdom. With the acquisition of the franchise, the civic and social activities of women blossomed rapidly into faithfulness and widened with every opportunity. The pressure of "Gentile" opposition to woman suffrage, both local and nation, grew fiercer as time passed on. Finally, in 1882, United States' Senator George F. Edmunds, of Vermont, focused the national opposition by securing the passage of a bill which disfranchised those living in the plural marriage relations and defined polygamous living as "unlawful cohabitation." The bill was "railroaded" through Congress between the 16th of February and the 14th of March, becoming law on the 22nd of March. Not only were men and women who were polygamists disfranchised, but a whole system of prosecution and persecution was inaugurated. The women of Utah were loyally sustained at that juncture by the leading suffrage women throughout the nation. In the midst of the court proceedings, Belva A. Lockwood telegraphed from Washington to Emmeline B. Wells at Salt Lake City: "Stand by your guns. Allow no encroachment upon your liberties. No mandamus here." The "Woman's Journal," of Boston, edited by Lucy Stone, denounced in scathing terms the "bold attempt to disfranchise citizens who have exercised the right to vote for years." The "Journal" declared that such an attempt would never have been made "if these citizens had not been 'Mormons'." The crusade which followed is both painful to remember and difficult to describe. For five years a reign of terror was inaugurated and none knew when or where peace or safety would obtain. Through the storm women went quietly to the polls and manifested their freedom of choice by voting as they always had done, for the best men for office. In 1887 a new law was devised by the United States Sen- 
 ator Edmunds, assisted by John Randolph Tucker, of Virginia. More severe in its attacks and in its pressure upon plural marriage the law also disincorporated the Church and escheated its property. All the persons convicted of polygamy or unlawful cohabitation were disfranchised and illegitimate or polygamous children, with certain exceptions, were disinherited;  and finally woman suffrage was abolished in Utah, the act becoming a law March 3, 1887. Thus was taken away violently by the Congress of the United States that which was given freely by the Legislature of Utah. However, seventeen years of voting, of study and reflection on public questions, of officeholding, and of much private and public discussion concerning civic equal rights, educated the women of Utah as nothing else could possibly have done. Among the civic institutions which were early appropriated by the Utah women was the time-honored custom of calling mass meetings and offering resolutions or protests in this or that interest. The number of women throughout the Church who had become excellent speakers, good reasoners and intelligent writers, through labors in the Relief Society, did not lessen, but decidedly increased as civic opportunity permitted them expression in new directions. Mass meetings for good and various causes were held not only in Salt Lake City, but all over the territory, especially when Congress threatened inimical suffrage legislation. Later, between 1887 and 1895, when the question of statehood came to the front, mass meetings and suffrage meetings were held all over the territory. Several state constitutional conventions had been held through the years, women being delegates to these during their voting period;  petitions had been forwarded to Congress and efforts put forth to secure statehood. The petitions had always been refused, on the flimsy ground of lack of population, although other states had been admitted that had far fewer inhabitants;  and sometimes the opposition was a political one, the Democrats fearing Utah would go in as a Republican state, the Republicans asserting that Democrats would rule the new state. The real reasons would not be hard to give. In the spring of 1882 a constitutional convention was held and four women were elected to this convention: Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, from Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Susa Young Gates from St. George, who was, however, unable to attend. The three women who were there took an active part in framing the constitution, and their presence was a decided benefit and SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 267 SO acknowledged by every member of the convention. The women were well versed in parliamentary law and its usage. and what speeches they made were delivered without heat or rancor. The National Woman's Suffrage Association had become a strong factor in woman's development during the 70's. Appreciating the value of alliging themselves with these progressive and intelligent national leaders. Miss Eliza R. Snow arranged with President Young to send delegates to the National Suffrage convention at Washington in January. 1879. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, accompanied by Mrs. Zina Young Williams-Card, only daughter of Aunt Zina D. H. Young, went down to Washington and received from Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss Susan B. Anthony a cordial welcome. These Utahns were voting women and as such were received as befitted their royal acquisition. Both Utah women addressed the convention, attended congressional committee meetings, called upon the President of the United States and presented the case of the "Mormon" women to the Lady of the White House. Mrs. Hayes. From this time "Mormon" women regularly attended the National Suffrage conventions and took part in their deliberation. The high-minded leaders of the suffrage association befriended their "Mormon" associates and accorded them the respect which the characters and attainments of the Utah delegates deserved. Religious questions were not discussed, for the National Suffrage Association early took the stand that there was no religious nor political test which could apply to human fundamental rights. ]Miss Susan B. Anthony maintained a long friendship with a number of "Mormon" women. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Emily S. Richards. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie. were especially dear to this great-hearted and high-principled woman. Mrs. Stanton and ]Miss Anthony visited Salt Lake City in June. 1871. Mrs. Stanton was then president and Miss Anthony vice-president of the National Woman Suffrage Association. In January a public call was made, signed by the most influential women of Salt Lake City, for another mass meeting in the assembly hall to organize a territorial suffrage association. This meeting was held January 10, 1889, with Mrs. Emily S. Richards as chairman of the meeting and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder as secretary protect. The officers elected were: 2«
 President, Mrs. Margaret N. Caine, wife of Congressman John T. Caine;  vice-presidents, Lydia D. Alder, Nellie R. Webber, Priscilla J. Riter;  secretary, Cornelia Home Clayton;  corresponding secretary, Charlotte I. Cobb Kirby;  treasurer, Margie Dwyer;  executive committee, Maria Y. Dougall, Nettie Y. Easton, Ann E. Groesbeck, Phebe Y. Beatie and Jennie Rowe;  vice-presidents, Emily S. Richards, Ann D. Groesbeck and Caroline E. Dye;  recording secretary, Rachel Edwards;  corresponding secretary, Julia C. Taylor;  treasurer, Margie Dyer;  executive committee, Cornelia Home Clayton, Margaret Mitchell, Nellie Little, Teresa Hills and May Booth Talmage. Following this meeting Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Froiseth were appointed state organizers by the national association. Mrs. Richards had to work alone, however, as Mrs. Froiseth, a non-"Mormon," would not, or did not, take part in the work of organizing. Within a few months fourteen auxiliary suffrage societies were formed by Mrs. Richards. Civil government classes were organized and now had enthusiastic success. April 11, immediately following the annual April conference a general meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, in Salt Lake City, with Mrs. Alder, vice president, in the chair. Eloquent addresses were made by Bishop O. F. Whitney, the Hon. C. W. Penrose, the Hon. George Q. Cannon, Dr. Martha P. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. Ida Snow Gibbs and Mrs. Nellie R. Webber. At the annual meeting held in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City in 1890, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball — that dauntless suffrage leader — was again elected president of the Utah branch with Mrs. E. B. Wells, vice president. She continued in office till 1893 when, at the annual suffrage convention, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells succeeded her in that office with Mrs. F. S. Richards as vice-president and state organizer. Crowded and enthusiastic meetings followed in all the larger cities and towns of Utah, held usually under the auspices of the Relief Society, called together by Mrs. Emily S. Richards. Much preliminary work looking to statehood was now undertaken by both men and women. Amnesty finally was granted the male polygamists, permitting them to vote at elections in the territory. The petition for this amnesty was signed by the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, December 19, 1891, and indorsed by Governor Thomas and Chief Justice Zane. President Harrison issued a proclamation of pardon on SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 269 January 4, 1893. On the 6th of September, 1893, the bill named the Enabling Act was presented to Congress by Delegate Rawlins and approved by President Cleveland, July 16, 1894. The bill authorized the holding of a state constitutional convention to be composed of 107 Utah delegates and these met in March, 1895, in Salt Lake City, to form the fundamental law of the proposed state. The constitutional convention met March 4, 1895, and while women were not eligible for a seat in that convention they were represented nobly by the vast majority of men in the convention who were determined to see justice done the women of the new state. The leaders in this enterprise were President John Henry Smith, Bishop Orson F. Whitney, Hon. Franklin S. Richards and Heber M. Wells, later the governor of the new state. President John Henry Smith's breadth and fairness, his love of fair play and justice were never more in evidence. Bishop Whitney's gifts of eloquence and persuasiveness were equal to his opponents, while he had the supreme advantage of standing firm upon the rock of justice and truth. The scholarly and careful arguments of Hon. Franklin S. Richards carried weight and were like direct missies which sped to the mark with every shot, while nothing escaped the keen wit and instant apperceptions of Governor Heber M. Wells. The committee of the whole who first argued the question were: Hon. J. F. Chidester, chairman;  A. S. Anderson, Joseph E. Robinson, Parley Christensen, Peter Lowe, James D. Murdock, Chester Call, Andreas Engberg, A. H. Raleigh, William Howard, F. A. Hammond, S. R. Thurman. In addition to this committee those who sustained the women and pleaded their causes were: Messrs. F. S. Richards, O. F. Whitney, David Evans, George M. Cannon, John E. Murdock, Richard Hart, Anthony W. Ivins, Edward Snow, Messrs. Robinson, Allen, Miller, Farr, Preston, Karl G. Maeser and Heber M. Wells. There were others, but these were foremost. The convention was in session sixty-six days and woman suffrage was royally triumphant. Just after the adjournment of the convention. Miss Susan B. Anthony herself and Dr. Anna Howard Shaw visited Utah, arriving on May 12. They proceeded at once to hold a suffrage conference. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells presided and the conference met in the hall where the constitutional convention had adjourned a few days before. Governor Caleb W. West introduced Miss Anthony and Dr. Shaw who both made eloquent addresses. Welcoming speeches were made by President Zina D. H. Young, general president of the Relief 
 Society, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Mary Isabella Home and others. A reception in honor of the distinguished guests was given by Hon. Franklin S. Richards and his wife, hundreds of state officials and military officers from the post attending. The suffrage convention lasted two days and Utah welcomed these two great women with open arms. It is understood, of course, that after Congress passes an enabling act permitting the assembling of a constitutional convention, that convention prepares a constitution which must be submitted to the voters of the whole territory for their approval, and after that it is submitted to the President of the United States for his approval and signature. The convention of March held over for sixty days, finally passing the suffrage clause with the whole constitution which was then submitted at the fall election to the vote of the people. It was then sent for ratification by President Cleveland. The Republican party placed three women upon the ticket: Mrs. Lillie Pardee for the Senate, Mrs. Emmen B. Wells for the House of Representatives, and Mrs. Emma McVicker for the Superintendent of Public Instruction;  but it was finally decided that there was a legal question involved in the use of the women's names which might imperil the success of the Republican vote. Therefore, the women consented, very reluctantly, to the withdrawal of their names. It is interesting to know that the constitution was adopted by a large majority28,618 ayes and 2,687 nos. President Cleveland signed the constitution January 4, 1896, and again full suffrage was conferred upon the women of Utah. Mrs. Lillie Pardee was elected clerk of the Senate and had the distinction of being the first woman who signed the credentials of a United States senator. On the Board of Regents of the State University, Mrs. Emma J. McVickers served from 1898 to 1905, Mrs. Rebecca E. Little from 1897 to 1907, Mrs. Antoinette B. Kinney from 1905 to 1907, and Mrs. Belle Anderson Gemmell from 1911 to 1915. Mrs. Little was instrumental in the establishment of the Domestic Science Department in 1903 and Mrs. McVickers in the establishment of the Kindergarten in 1900. The first legislature, 1896, passed "An act for the establishment of sericulture" (raising of silk worms). Women had worked energetically to secure this measure, and it was appropriate that five of them, three Republicans and two Democrats, should be appointed as a silk commission. Zina D. H. Young, Isabella E. Bennett, Margaret A. Caine, Ann C. Woodbury and Mary A. Cazier, were chosen. Each was required to give a thousand-dollar bond. A later legislature appropri- SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 271 ated $1,000 per annum to pay the secretary. Very great activity was manifested in this line for many years. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young being the leader of the movement, ably assisted by Mrs. Margaret E. Caine. Since that time, however, this has been repealed and sericulture has declined and now is almost forgotten in this state. To go back a few years, and thus to bring our chronological story up to date, the November, 1900, election was fraught with great interest to the women, as state officials were to be elected as well as the legislature and they were anxious that there should be some women's names on the ticket for both the House and the Senate, and that a woman should be nominated for Superintendent of Public Instruction by both parties. For this office the Republican and the Democratic women presented as candidates, Mrs. Emma J. McMicker and Miss Ada Faust, but both conventions gave the nomination to men. Meantime Dr. John R. Park, the superintendent, died suddenly and Governor Wells appointed Mrs. McVicker as his successor for the unfinished term. !Mrs. J. Ellen Foster, of Washington, D. C, was sent to Utah by the Republican National Committee, and with Mrs. F. Boynton and others, made a spirited and successful campaign. Only one woman was nominated for a state office in 1900. Mrs. Elizabeth Cohen for the legislature, and she was defeated with the rest of the Democratic ticket. Later she came into active and valuable service. At the close of the legislature in 1896 the Republican State Central Committee was reorganized;  with Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball as a member and ]Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells as vice chairman. Miss Julia Farnsworth, secretary. The Democratic party was also liberal toward women and the feeling prevailed that at the next election women would be placed in various state and county offices. There were many women delegates in the county and also in the state conventions of both parties in 1896, and a number of women were nominated. It was a Democratic victory and the women on that ticket were elected — Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon to the Senate; Eartha Le Barthe and Sarah A. Anderson to the House;  Margaret A. Caine, auditor of Salt Lake county;  Ellen Jakeman, treasurer Utah county;  Delilah K. Olson, recorder Millard county;  Fannie Grahl(Republican), recorder Box Elder county, and possibly some others. Dr. Cannon was therefore the first woman state senator in the United States. In the legislature of 1896, Dr. Cannon championed the measure bv which a State Board of Health was created and 
 was appointed by the governor as one of its first members. She had part in the defeat of the strong lobby that sought to abolish the existing State Board of Public Examiners, which prevents incompetents from practicing medicine. She introduced a bill compelling the state to educate the deaf, mute and blind;  another requiring seats for women employees;  what was known as the Medical Bill, by which all the sanitary measures of the state are regulated and put in operation;  and another providing for the erection of a hospital for the State School of the Deaf, Dumb and Blind, carrying with it the necessary appropriation. All the bills introduced or championed by Dr. Cannon became laws. She served on the Committees of Public Health, Apportionment, Fish and Game, Banks and Banking, Education, Labor, etc. At the close of the second two years' term the Senate presented her with a handsome silver-mounted album containing the autographs of all the senators and employees. She had drawn what is known as the long term, and at its close she was chosen to present a handsome gavel to the president of the Senate in behalf of the members. Dr. Cannon is the mother of a talented family. As chairman of the Committee on Statistics she was the author of Utah's Vital Statistics law which, at its time of passage, was considered the eighth best in the United States. Since then it has been the pattern for many such laws in other states. Senator Cannon sat on the following committees: Apportionment, Public Institutions, Railroads, Ways and Means, Education, Judiciary, and Public Health, of which she was chairman. She secured the passage of a bill authorizing the teaching of the effects of narcotics in the schools and also a Health Bill on the repression of nuisances and contagious diseases. The legislature which met in January, 1897, had not only Mrs. Martha Hughes Cannon of Salt Lake City as senator, but also two members of the House, Mrs. Sarah E. Anderson of Ogden and Mrs. Euritha K. La Barthe of Salt Lake City. The first bill introduced by a woman in the House to become a law was the one to compel women to remove their headgear in all indoor places of amusement. It was drawn and introduced by Mrs. La Barthe. Mrs. Sarah E. Anderson introduced a bill to provide for teaching the effects of Alcoholic Drinks and Narcotics in the schools, but it was not passed until the next legislature met, and was under the active charge of Senator Martha Hughes Cannon. In the legislature of 1899 Alice Merrill Home was a Suffrage won by member of the Lower House. Mrs. Home has been a school teacher most of her, is a student, lecturer on art, and has been She isa worker the mother in women's organizations of five children. She since she was a girl. introduced free normal scholarship bill which is now operating in the State University. The appointment was for four years. She was chairman of the University of Utah Committee, and over $300,000 was expended under their direction in securing the congressional land grant. Through her efforts as chairman of the Committee on Art and Education a permanent art institute was established in the state and the state collection of prize pictures is named in compliment to her, "The Alice Art Collection." This institute holds annual exhibitions and has been the means of stimulating competition among the artists, educating the public and making for a love of the beautiful in this region. In the legislature of 1903 Mary G. Coulter of Ogden sat in the Lower House and was chairman of the Judiciary Committee. She was active in securing the passage of the AntiCigarette Act. Mrs. Coulter was the last woman member of either House of the legislature until 1913, when Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Dr. Jane Skolfield, Mrs. Annie H. King and Mrs. Reid, were elected to the House of Representatives. These women were instrumental in securing the Mother's Pension Law for Utah and also the Minimum Wage Law for women passed by this legislature. One of our able legislators and public workers is Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. She is the gifted daughter of President Emmeline B. Wells, herself a writer, speaker and all-round executive, having been president of the Pioneer Stake Relief Society for many years and is now a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She is the mother of twelve children, eleven of them living. She is conservative, sound and true to every principle of righteousness. One piece of legislation accomplished through her efforts in 1913 was the enlarging of the Bureau of Emigration Labor and Statistics with the addition of a woman deputy, a new office whose duty it is to look after the interests of the women and children laborers in the state. This office was occupied for some years by Mrs. Elizabeth F. Nielsen whose services were entirely satisfactory. She also is a woman of culture and refinement and a credit to the office which she so long filled. In 1915 two able and popular women, Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hayward and Mrs. Lily C. Wolstenholme were elected to the 
 Lower House. Mrs. Wolstenholme introduced and secured the passage of a bill prohibiting the receiving of money from fallen women and also one limiting working hours of public employees. Mrs. Hayward secured the passage of our Child Labor Bill and also one relating to the Art Institute. In 1917 Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hayward, who is one of our foremost and highly gifted women, is the mother of a large family and an excellent business woman. Dr. Grace Stratton Airey and Mrs. Daisy C. Allen of Garfield were elected to the Lower House where they did their share in securing prohibition for the state. Mrs. Hayward, under the auspices of the State Suffrage  Council, introduced the Memorial to Congress recommending immediate consideration of the Susan B. Anthony Federal Suffrage  SENATOR Amendment. It passed both Houses and ''wART?  signed by the governor. It was she who secured the special session of the legislature in September, 1919, which met simply and only to ratify the Suffrage  amendment. We have had thirteen women in the legislature since 1896 when statehood was attained. In the spring of 1896 the Democratic State Convention elected Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson as an alternate delegate to the National Convention, and she was the first woman alternate to ever serve in any big political convention. In 1900 Mrs. Elizabeth Cohen was elected alternate to the National Democratic Convention at Kansas City. Mrs. Chambers, a delegate, was taken ill and Mrs. Cohen was the unanimous choice to second Mr. Bryan for President at this convention, she being the first woman in the United States ever accorded such an honor. In this same year Mrs. William H. Jones was sent as an alternate to the Republican National Convention. In 1908 Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hayward was a delegate to the National Convention at Denver and Mrs. Sarah Ventress went as alternate. In 1911 Mrs. Susa Young Gates and Mrs. Lucy A. Clark were nominated as delegates to the Republican Convention at Chicago. In 1908 Mrs. Margaret Zane Cherdon, another fine business woman with a charming personality and a quick, keen brain, went as a delegate to the convention which nominated Wm. H. Taft. Mrs. Cherdon served as a presidential elector SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 275 in the following election in 1913 and carried Utah's electoral vote to Washington. She was the first woman of the country ever so honored. In 1916 Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hayward and Mrs. B. T. Pyper were delegates to the National Democratic Convention at Chicago and ]Mrs. L. M. Crawford and Mrs. Alice E. Paddison were delegates to the Progressive Convention of the same year. At the present time in the state. Mrs. Elizabeth M. Cohen is Commissioner of Pensions and Mrs. L. M. Crawford holds a responsible position in the office of the State Land Board. There are women district chairmen throughout the entire state who carry on the details of their positions very efficiently. In several counties of the state the positions of recorder, treasurer and auditor are repeatedly and efficiently held by women. In Salt Lake county, Margaret Zane Cherdron has held the position of county clerk for two terms and she also ran for nomination of state treasurer, being defeated by only two votes. A piece of important legislation which was put through during the winter of 1913 by the women was the enlarging of the Guardianship Bill. The law. as it stood was much broader than those of many states, but even so it did not give the mother an equal chance with the father of minor children which might be in contest. Consequently the women labored hard to add an amendment to this bill. It is now looked upon as the model guardianship bill in the United States and was so quoted in the late victory convention in Chicago by the leading one discussion, lawyers of that male that convention, members of then it was under the legislature said somewhat loftily, that "marriage was a corporation, and that there always must be a head to a corporation." Quick witted Mrs. King was upon her feet instantly and replied to this saying that in her estimation "marriage Avas not a corporation, but a partnership, and the interests of the parents were equal, while their rights, privilege and duties, were in the same class." This state was the first to pass the minimum wage bill which was especially the care of women in the legislature of 1913, and the minimum wage was made 75 cents per day for the first year and $1.25 for all over 20 years of age in the second year of service.