		NOTES AND NEWS.

	"THE QUESTION of the day" is an old one
just now having been warmed over for the
ninety-eighth time.—"How did you spend
your Fourth?"
	A DISCIPLE of Darwin, writing from
New Westminster, describes that naturalist
as "a fine old man," and says "though there
may be some other law or cause than his
theory, why species change, yet so far he is 
quite right—we are, for sure, a developed
animal."
	THE AMERICAN Newspaper Directory of 
Rowell & Co. for 1875. records 8,348 papers
published in the United States and British
provinces, an increase of 1,910 since 1871,
and of 564 from last year.
	TERRIBLE RAILROAD accident at Far
Rockaway in the earlier part of this month,
several persons were killed, a much larger
number seriously injured; considerable
blame seems attached to the men in charge.
The trains were crowded with excursion
parties.
	AT NYAK, N. Y.,  there has been a most
destructive storm of rain, hail and wind,
accompanied by incessant thunder and light-
ning; two men were killed by lightning,
houses were unroofed, trees torn up and
carried some distance.  The damage was
immense.
	MRS. LAURA De Force Gordon, editor of
the Stockton Leader, and Mrs. Belle Lynch
of the Mendocino County Dispatch, were
lately in San Francisco at the State Demo-
cratic Convention.  The Golden Dawn pays

[Column 2]
them the flattering compliment of causing
many a delegate to change their vote
through their successful lobbyism.
	COMMENCEMENT SEASON, "literary anni
versaries," exhibitions of schools and
academies, class days, class re-unions, and
"Phi Beta orations," are crowding one after
the other or all together, at this season of
the year; and from every quarter we hear
the gratifying accounts of pleasant associa-
tions, favorable reports as to scholarship and
progression. Yale College, Harvard, Vas-
sar, Holyoke, Cornell; Greylock, and Cooper
Institute and many others too numerous to
mention here, have all recently celebrated
their commencement.  Certainly these sat-
isfactory reports must be particularly pleas-
ing to those who are interested in the cause
of education and advancement.
	MAIL ADVICES from South America bring
distressing accounts of the terrible earth-
quakes which have lately been visiting that
country. Several towns and cities have
been almost entirely destroyed.  It is said
that in thirty minutes the city of Cacuta
was laid in ruins, resulting in the death of
more than ten thousand people, in addition
to other thousands injured.  The cause is
unknown as well as the place of its com-
mencement.  Some attribute the cause to
the volcano of Sohatera; others are inclined
to the belief that a new volcano has broken
out in the hills of Giracha.  There have
been several severe shocks since, in differ-
ent places through the same part of the
country; and the greatest alarm prevails
among the surviving inhabitants; sickness
and starvation are also increasing.
	THE MILLENNIAL Star of June 21st, re-
cently received, contains a very interesting
account of the Swiss and German Confer-
ence, held at Berne, Switzerland, June 6th,
1875. Br. Joseph F. Smith, President of
the European Mission, was then in Swit-
zerland, and on that occasion addressed the
Conference, telling them that he regretted
not being able to speak in their own lan-
guage.  His sermon was an earnest and im-
pressive exhortation to both men and women
to live their religion, to become preachers
of the Gospel, by effectually honoring its
divine principles.  He also entreated them
to labor diligently and be "economical, wise
and prudent with their means," that they
might be able to gather to Zion, but not to
gather with a view to obtain riches, or to
benefit their temporal condition, but to
build up the kingdom of God.  There were
many other brethren there, representing
the different missions and conferences, who
spoke expressively and impressively con-
cerning the great work of the latter days.
The people seemed especially pleased and
gratified to have with them one of the
Twelve Apostles, and so many Eders from
Zion.
	IT IS said that 2,000 persons were drowned
at Toulouse, by the flood of the river Gar-
onnee, and that in consequence of the de-
struction of property by that flood, 100,000
persons will be dependent on charity for
months. The contributions for them have
already reached $200,000.  President Mac
Mahon headed the list.  The Pope sent
$4,000.


For the EXPONENT.
