TRUTH AND POPULARITY
	The truth is as unpopular as poverty. Hence,
to live pure lives, to be true men and women
is unpopular and out of fashion, something
that cannot be adopted save by a comparative
few.
	A first class now will secure more notoriety,
and consequently bring more money to the
author in a few months than "The Voice of
Warning." "The Governent of God," or any
such work which offers the pure, uncolored
truth, could gain in a century or in all time,
except old things should pass away and all
things become new. If if was advertised that
an elder of the chirch would deliver a discourse
upon the principle of divine, eternal truth, in
the Tabernacle, at the same hour a celebrated
comedy was to be played in the Theatre, thou-
samds of people would be in readiness to wit-
ness the first rise of the curtain at the latter
place, while at the former building a few hun-
dreds might congregate, the larger portion
coming in, at least after the opening hymn
had been sung. All this because the human
mind is prone to seek popularity, and there
is so wide a difference between it and the
truth.
	But the Saints of God, those who know or
have a desire to know the true docrine of
Christ, and live in accordance with its teach-
ings, must choose a higher standard by which
to be adjudged than the vain fickle test of
popularity.
	O Young ladies, ye who seek for everlasting
life, light and intelligence, do not turn from the
thought of joining the Retrenchment Associa-
tions because they are unpopular. Do not be
ashamed to acknowledge that you delight in
prayer because through prayer and faith comes
the sweet, sure testimony of the truth. Do not
shrink from entering into polygamy because it
is scoffed at and jeered by those who know not
the ways of the Lord and seek not after His
kingdom and righteousness. Study the works
of the church, though they contain the prin-
ciples of truth and are not popular with the
world. Learn the truth for yourselves, and
never be afraid to speak in its defense, though
to do so should have the effect to make you
look small in the eyes of some whose good
opinion you might be anxious to preserve.
Maintain true independence of character, feel
that you are worth more and far more hap-
py in homemade attire than those who seek
but vanity and folly are in the costliest robes
they can put on. Cultivate union and sisterly
love, thus gaining in strength and power; show
most respect to those who live nearest the
Lord, thus making the truth popular as well as
most precious among yourselves.


