WOMAN'S RECORD.

	Mrs. M. E. PARKER, a distinguished advocate
of Suffrage and Temperance, from Dundee,
Scotland, recently visited America.  She came
as delegate to the Right Worthy Grand Lodge
of Good Templars, who held their session at
Bloomington, Iowa, this season.  She was ap-
pointed delegate from that Lodge, to the Na-
tional Temperance Convention, held soon after
in Chicago.  On her route homeward she visit-
ed the most noted places, taking in New York
and Boston, and everywhere earnestly and
spiritedly advocating the great cause of reform.
She sailed for Scotland the first week in the 
present month.
	MISS MARY Holman Ladd, of Boston,
who has just graduated from Cornell Uni-
versity, had assigned to her the distin-


guished honor of delivering the Commence-
ment Oration at that institution, being the
first young lady who has ever won that dis-
tinction.  Her oration was entitled "The 
Iphigenia of Euripides and Goethe," and
was purely classical in style.  While upon
the commencement stage she was repeatedly
applauded, and showered with bouquets,
proving how truly her efforts were appre-
ciated by the audience.  She intends study-
ing ore year more in Boston, for the de-
gree of A. M. at Cornell.
	MRS. DR. Ryder, a pupil of Mrs. Lozier,
is becoming very popular as a lecturer. She
is now lecturing in New England and pre-
viously made a tour of Central New York.
	Miss Alice Bradford is another Boston
girl who has graduated at Cornell this year,
from the Scientific Department.  She mer-
ited some distinction as an essayist in the
senior class, ranking one of the best among
six; and she has been accorded the limited
privilege of contending for the Woodford
prize of $100, for oratory.
	MRS. BURTON, wife of Capt. Burton the
British Consul at Damascus, has prepared
for publication a work, giving sketches of
the kind of life English women may lead in
the East, and of the customs and manner
of living, of the inhabitants.  The book is
soon to be published, and will be entitled,
"The Inner Life of Syria, Palestine and the 
Holy Land."
	DR. LAURA B. Chase is lecturing in and
about New York.  She is a woman possess-
ing great moral courage, and speaks with
great force and earnestness to both sexes.
She is even courageous enough to give pri-
vate lectures to men, on their follies, sins
and crimes.  Her listeners, and even clergy-
man who have heard her, commend her in
high terms of praise, for her words of cau-
tion and wisdom.


