		HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Kellog English Opera Troupe who re-
cently appeared in our theatre, opened an en-
gagement in Maguire's new theatre in San
Francisco, July 5th. They seem to be as highly
appreciated there, according to newspaper re-
ports, as they were here and are playing the
same style of pieces.
	THE CHILDREN are rehearsing for the Twen-
ty-fourth of July Jubilee, under the direction
of Prof. C. J. Thomas, in the New Tabernacle,
Sunday mornings.  Preparations are rapidly
going forward for the decoration which has
been already commenced under the supervis-
ion of the former committee, and a grand enter-
tainment in music songs recitations etc., is
anticipated.
	AN EXCELLENT quality of glycerine soap,
called "Bath Sand Tablets" is manufactured
by H. H. Wadman & Co., of this city. The
ingredients used, as well as the preparing and
compounding of them, are entirely of home
production; which is one strong recommenda-
tion.  Another is, that young ladies who have
tried it, think they have never found anything
to equal its efficacy in removing chaps or rough-
ness from the face and hands.
	THE "ADVOCATE," and the "Educational
Journal" are new publications just started in
this city, of which we have received first is-
sues. The former is calculated to become "a
first class advertising medium" and will there-

[Column 2]
fore be gratuitous.  The latter is published as
its name indicates, in the interest of education.
There is plenty of work for each in its line,
and judging from the appearance of the cop-
ies before us, the labor of each will be ably
performed.
	WE RECEIVED a pleasant call Tuesday, July
13th, From Dr. Mary. J. Safford Blake, of
Boston, who is now on her way to the Pacific
coast.  This lady is an active worker in Wo-
man's Cause, is an earnest advocate of hygien-
ic dress reform, which she not only preaches,
but practices, and is interested also in suffrage
and all subjects which tend to the equality of
woman with man.
	She expressed herself pleased with our city
and its surroundings, and in particular with
the efforts being made for the development and
elevation of woman, but like all others of the
outside world was unable from her standpoint
to take the same views that we do of our pecu-
liar system of marriage; yet she was most char-
itable, believing us to be truly earnest and sin-
cere.  She is certainly a most intelligent and
attractive person, and we very truly regretted
her not being able to stay longer in our city.
	SEVERAL R. S. Reports are unavoidably
held over for want of space.  At the general
meeting in the Fourteenth Ward, Saturday,
July 10th, the time was chiefly occupied by
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselors E. R.
Snow and E. Howard and Mrs. E. S. Barney.
These sisters who lately visited the settlements
as far South as Sanpete, meeting with the Re-
lief Societies, and also attending meetings ap-
pointed by President Young and the brethren
who accompanied him, have returned home
filled with the testimony of the Holy Spirit,
the Power of God unto Salvation.  We
would rejoice in giving to those who were not
permitted to attend the meeting on Saturday,
the words of Living Truth as they flowed from
the lips of the sisters mentioned; but had we
time, space and ability to put them on paper,
they would thus seem too tame and weak,
wanting the influence, the potency, with
which they were uttered.  The day for the next
regular meeting being the "Twenty Fourth,"
meeting was adjourned for one week only, in-
stead of two.
	THE EDITORIAL Excursion party who are
making a tour across the continent, reached
Salt Lake City by the evening train Saturday
evening July 10th, and took rooms at the
"Townsend House."  They visited the Taber-
nacle in the morning when all the Sunday
Schools from the different wards were assem-
bled to practice for the coming Jubilee.  In the
afternoon they attended the regular service
there.  Elder Orson Pratt occupied the stand.
Monday morning they went by train up
American Fork Canyon, and left the city
Tuesday afternoon for the West.  The party
is composed mostly of editors correspon-
dents etc. from New York and the East-
ern States, and some from Ohio, Pennsylvania,
and Washington.  They expect to reach San
Francisco on the 12th of August.  No doubt
their short visit in Salt Lake will furnish them
some items of interest, as Mormons and Mor-
monism seem to be a popular and never fail-
ing theme, for journalists etc. at the present
time.  We hope they will speak of us, our sur-
roundings and our institutions truthfully, and
not according to the reprepresentations of an
outside element which delights in scandal,
misrepresentation and untruthfulness.


IN Berne, Switzerland, the national coun-
cil has voted 25,000 francs to defray the ex-
penses of the representations of the coun-
try's products at the centennial.


