CONSCIENCE AND DUTY.

	"Who does the best his circumstance allows,
	Does well, acts nobly; angels could do no more."

	Every person is more or less desirous of ob-
taining happiness; those whose lives are hard
and full of painful experiences in this world, look
forward to a future state of existence, with a
strong hope of realizing there, that which is
denied them here.
	But there can be no true or lasting happiness,
except through the fulfillment of duty; this is
the one thing always necessary, always practi-
cable, always certain; how essential then, to
know in what our duty lies, to be sure we are
in the right path.  How careful ought we to
be that our conscience does not mislead us, and
make us believe we are discharging our true
duties when it is only selfish gratification. It
is possible for us to become so blind that we
mistake inclination for duty.  I will not say
that there may not be duties which are un-
pleasant ones, which in themselves are trials,
but to shrink from them, or try to evade them,
will not bring us the more happiness, for con-
science will protest against this neglect, and its
stings will be more unendurable than the sac-
rifice which was necessary in the performance
of a disagreeable duty, and self-sacrifice in the
fulfillment of duty, carries with it its own rec-
ompense.
	The consciousness of having fulfilled duty
to the best of our ability, is a consolation even
in unhappiness; duty has its sorrows and its
joys.  It is not given us always to see the wis-
dom which demands our work must be done,
but frequently in some simple way, we are con-
vinced of the kindness and judgment exer-
cised in our behalf, in the thorniest places, the
most trying and difficult circumstances; and
we are thus encouraged to go on, bound to the
wheel of duty, and fill up the measure of our
work; which becomes through such means, a plea-
sure in itself, and in the future "a joy forever."
	Let us so regulate our lives as to have no
matter to reproach ourselves with, neither let
thoughtlessness or ambition lead us astray, but
guard ourselves sedulously against temptation;
and if there be whisperings which tell us, we
have a right to escape from duties which ex-
ceed our strength, we must not listen to such
evil suggestions, but trusting in God who has
promised to fit the back to the burden, go for-
ward nothing daunted, relying upon His help
whose work we are striving to do faithfully.
And in strict obedience to these duties (how-
ever trivial they may seem), which are required
of us from day to day, we shall more richly
deserve, and more fully merit the blessings of
heaven, than by launching forth upon the most
brilliant career independent of the ties, duties,
and obligations which are our legitimate heri-
tage.  There may be an expiation which may
perhaps atone for duties unfulfilled; but it can
never bring the same true happiness.  But who
would not rather make some sacrifice of feeling
for principle, than to eventually be called upon
to repay the uttermost farthing.  We are all so-
cial beings, and there are many duties we owe
to each other, which if neglected as we pass
along, and allowed to accumulate, may foot up
a terrible bill against us in time to come. We
are, none of us, independent of others, and we
should so live as to understand our true rela-
tions to our families, and friends, to society,
and above all the duty and allegiance we owe
to Him who is our Creator and the Father of
our spirits.  That such may be the happy lot
of those who have started out with renewed
covenants, to serve God and keep His com-
mandments, is our most earnest prayer.
	July 13th, 1875.


