HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The following recipes are in use at Dr. Trall's
eminent Hygienic table, at the Hygieian Home,
Florence Hights, N. J:
	Rye Bread.—Pour boiling water on rye meal
and mix into a stiff dough, make it into squares
or rolls and bake in a hot oven. When the be-
ginner can manipulate the dough readily, he may
succeed in making it light in loaves three inches in
diameter.
	Rye and Indian Fruit Loaf.—To five quarts of
fine corn meal add five pints rye meal, mix thor-
oughly, add water as hot as the hands will bear,
and make into a not very stiff dough, then add
three pints of stewed raisins and three pints of
washed currants, mix intimately, fill a deep pan
and smooth it over the surface, steam it six or
eight hours (all night if convenient), bake about
two hours longer, and serve warm or cold.
	The Herald of Health says: Friction is one of
the most valuable hygienic agents in restoring lost
health or maintaining good health. It is impor-
tant as part of the bath and when a bath cannot
be taken dry friction is servicable. If every per-
son on rising or retiring would spend ten minutes
in rubbing the body it would be beneficial in
equalizing the circulation, relieving internal con-
gestion, exercising the skin and invigorating
the whole body. Invalids who cannot rub them-
selves should employ healthy people to do it for
them. Gentle friction on the temples often cures
headache.
	Dr. Hall relates the case of a man who was
cured of his billiousness by going without his sup-
per and drinking freely of lemonade. Every
morning, says the doctor, this patient arose with a
wonderful sense of rest and refreshment, and feel-
ing as though the blood had been literally washed,
cleansed and cooled by the lemonade and fast.
His theory is that food can be used as a remedy
for many diseases successfully. As an example,
he cures spitting of blood by use of salt; epilepsy
by watermelon; kidney affection with celery; poi-
son, olive or sweet oil; erysiplaes, pounded cran-
berries applied to the parts affected; hydrophobia,
onions, etc. So the way to keep in good health is
really to know what to eat—not to know what
medicine to take.
	Lime Water for Burns.—The readiest and most
useful remedy for scalds and burns is an embroca-
tion of limewater and linseed oil. These simple
agents combined form a thick, cream-like substance,
which effectually excludes the air from the injured
parts, and allays the inflamation almost instantly.
A case is recorded where a child fell backward in-
to a bath-tub of boiling water, and was nearly
flayed from her neck to below her hips. Her
agonies were indescribable; but her clothing being
gently removed, and the lime and oil preparation
thickly spread over the injured surface, she was
sound asleep in five minutes. Subsequently the
parts were carefully washed with warm milk and
water three times a day, the oil dressing renewed,
and the little patient rapidly recovered. Though
all the scalded skin came off she did not have a
scar. This remedy leaves no hard coat to dry on
the sores, but softens the parts and aids nature to


repair the injury in the readiest and most expedi-
tious manner. This mixture may be procured in
the drug stores, but if not accessible, slake a
lump of quicklime in water, and as soon as the
water is clear mix it with the oil and shake it
well. If the case is urgent pour boiling water
over the lime, and it will become clear in five min-
utes. The preparation may be kept bottled in the
house, and it will be as good  six months old as
when first made.—R. N. Y.


For the EXPONENT.
