		SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
			GENERAL.
	The American Bible Society are to have
a Bible published with new plates, to be
called the "Centennial Bible"......The Amer-
ican Palestine Exposition Society sailed in
the Celtic on the 19th of June, on its second
expedition......It has been proposed to build
an iron bridge across the Hudson at Still-
water, the cost estimated at $12,000......San
Francisco estimates her pupulation 230,000
......The cost of the pedestal for the Webster
Statue presented by G. W. Burnham to
Central Park, will be $20,000, it will not be
ready for unveiling before July 1876......75,
000 Americans have sailed for Europe this
season......Post masters are to be held re-
sponsible for the losses of government prop-
erty in their hands......A terrific tornado
at Detroit June 27th, its path about 50 feet
wide; four persons were killed and many
seriously injured, loss of property $25,000
......The cost of bridges in the United States
since the war is said to be $150,000,000......
O'Connell is to have a statue in Central Park
......In Texas they are collecting money for
Jeff Davis to buy a homestead......Bogardus
of Illinois has beaten Rimmel, England's
champion, at a pigeon-shooting match at
Hendon......Col. Gildersleeve of the Amer-
ican rifle-team, won the cup in the rifle
match at Belfast......The headquarters of
the National Grange is removed to Louis-
ville Ken. from Washington D. C. ......Loss
by burning of mills in St. Louis, July 8th,
$50,000......The Hon. Geo. Opedyke has been
appointed president of the N.Y. Board of
Trade......The New York Sun boldly criti-
cises some of the leading railway mana-
gers.
			FOREIGN.
	A terrific rain and hail storm in Switzer-
land, Canton of Geneva and the French
Frontiers July 8th, several persons killed
and wounded, valuable property damaged
......The King of Burmah has refused to
permit the British troops passage through
his country. It is hoped he will yield to
the representations of the British Envoy
and prevent a collision......A painting of
Laocoon, according to Virgil's description,
has been discovered lately at Pompeii......
Japan has appointed commissioners to the
Philadelphia Centennial......It is reported
that the Marquis of Lorme, and his wife
(Princess Louise) intend making a tour
through the United States......An engine
for street cars whose motive power is atmos-
pheric air has been invented in Scotland by
Mr. Scott Moncrieff, who has obtained a pa-
tent for it......The Russian government 
spends annually $32,000 for carriages for
opera singers at St. Petersburg, to protect
their health and voices......The Chair of
Chemistry in Munich University, vacated
by the death of Baron Leibig has been filled
by Prof Baeger of Strassburg......The Lon-
don Art Union's income last year, was $94,
630......Thirty-six documents connected
with Michael Angelo have been discovered
at Rome, and are said to be of special in-
terest to the history of Art......In 1874,
France had in operation 15,000 miles of
railway......The Pope has just had comple-
ted a magnificent mosaic front to be affixed
to the famous church "St. Paul Outside The
Walls."......A masonic newspaper has been
started in Egypt in the Arabic language by
the masonic fraternity.
			PERSONAL.
	Rochfort has been obliged to suspend the
publication of his newspaper the "Lanterne"
at Geneva......Gerome's painting, the "Sabre
[Column 2]
Dance" in the Paris Salon has been sold
for $18,000......M. Godcharb recently de-
ceased left $120,000 the income of which is
to aid young Belgian sculptors......Mr. Ten-
nyson's new poem "Queen Mary" is about
to be issued......The Khedive of Egypt is
searching extensively for manuscript to form
a library at Cairo......The late Emperor Fer-
dinand of Austria, was buried July 6th,
with great pomp and ceremony; his remains
were deposited in the church of the Capu-
chins in the vault with Maximillian......
Garnier de Cassagnac has published a letter
in Paris in which he threatens to kick Gam-
betta......Don Carlos of Spain has been ar-
rested by the French authorities......The
heir apparent to the British throne intends
visiting India in October next......D. G.
Lobdell agent of the United States Treasury
Department died in Washington July 9th
......Gen. F. P. Blair died in St. Louis,
July 8th.
			LOCAL.
	Fireman's celebration at Ogden on the
Fourth of July, a grand success......Grand
Ball at Coalville, to celebrate the Fourth.....
Public demonstration of the memorable
Fourth in Alta......General holiday in Salt
Lake City July Fifth, excursions to all the
different places of attraction, and several
parties in the evening......The Martial band
serenaded the new Governor Thursday
night at the Walker House.........Robert T.
Burton, just returned from abroad, received
marked demonstrations of welcome from
his very numerous friends......The work of
excavating the cellar of the new Bank has
commenced......The extension of the Utah
Northern Railroad for twenty-five miles, is
expected to be completed this autumn......
Associate Justice Emerson has gone East on
a short visit to his friends......The Taberna-
cle choir went to Lake Side for an "out,"
Monday, July 12th.........Friday morning
there was a fire at the Railroad depot, which
did considerable harm in burning coal sheds,
coal, etc., and damaging cars......General
election, August 2nd, several officers to be
chosen......Mrs. J. B. Tyson, a lady who
was injured by the recent collision on the
Central Pacific, died in Ogden, July 6th;
her remains were sent to Minnesota.........
Preparations are being made for a children's
Jubilee in the New Tabernacle, July 24th....
The Wyoming company of emigrants ar-
rived here on Friday, July 9th......C. W.
Penrose, of the Ogden Junction, has re-
turned from his invigorating trip to Soda
Springs, warmly welcomed by his many
friends, and has resumed the editorial
pen in his own pleasing style.........	Mrs.
Clements and her little child, of Ogden,
are now afflicted with smallpox, taken from
her husband who has just recovered; strenu-
ous measures have been adopted to prevent
the disease from spreading.


