FLOWERS.

	A GOOD MAXIM.—It is more moral to be-
lieve ourselves to be bad, than to imagine
ourselves to be good.
	THE golden beams of truth and the silver
cords of love, twisted together, will draw
men on with a sweet violence, whether they
will or not.
	HUMAN affairs are not so happily arrang-
ed that the best things please the most
men. It is a proof of a bad cause when it
is applauded by the most.
	AN eager pursuit of fortune is inconsist-
ent with severe devotion to truth. The
heart must become tranquil before the
thought can become searching.
	THE roots of morals and of religion are
ever intertwined, and they draw their
strength from the same soil, are fed from
heaven with the same rains. and grow per-
petually toward the self-same light.
	NATURE is sent to teach us by her autum-
nal parables; and every fading leaf on every
tree, with its bud of future growth hid be-
hind it, becomes a solemn text, warning us
to "secure while the leaf is yet green the
germ that shall live when the frosts of death
have destroyed both fruit and flower."—
Maximillian.
	IT is worthier to strive and fail, than not
to have either capacity or will to strive at
all. In the conflicts of duty, there are re-
serves of power on the side of right, which
are at the disposal of one who wrestles and
overcomes. Pain may be blessed to us in
the larger and more generous sympathy


which it creates within us; and renuncia-
tion which is willingly adopted, adds to
character a crowning grace.
	THE love that survives the tomb is the
noblest attribute of the soul. If it has
woes, it has likewise its delights; and when
the overwhelming burst of grief is lulled
into the gentle tear of recollection, then
the sudden anguish and convulsive agony
over the present ruins of all we most loved
are softened away into pensive meditation
of all that it was in the days of its lovelines.
Who would root such a sorrow from the
heart? Though it may sometimes throw a
passing cloud over the bright hour of gai-
ety, or spread a deeper sadness over the
hour of gloom, yet who would exchange it
for the song of pleasure or the burst of rev-
elry. No; there is a voice from the tomb
sweeter than song: there is a remembrance
of the dead to which we turn even from the
charm of the living.


