HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Chocolate Cake.—Whites of two eggs, choco-
late sufficient to thicken, (generally use three
small cakes German prepared chocolate,) sweeten
to taste. Spread in layers between cakes, same
as in jelly cake. Cocoanut cake may be made in
the same way, using grated cocoanut, instead of
chocolate.
	Pan Dowdy.—This is a Yankee dish, and was
esteemed in the early days of the Republic as a
palatable, as well as a substantial one: Make a
rich crust; line a deep earthen pot with it; now
slice some pie apples quite thin for the layer,
strew the apples with molasses and spice, and a
teaspoonful of milk; cover with a thin crust and
repeat the process. Cover the top with crust and
your pan dowdy is made. Bake in a slow oven.
	Apple Puffs.—Mix a quarter of a pound of
butter with a quart of sifted flour, two eggs and a
spoonful of salt; half a teaspoonful soda; dissolve
in a little cold water; moisten it with cold water so,
that you can just roll it out easily; roll as thin as
possible; cut into cakes; put three of them togeth-
er; sprinkle flour between each one; lay on the top
thin slices of tart apples; sprinkle sugar and a lit-
tle nutmeg over them; inclose the apple by doub-
ling the pastry over them; press the edges well to-
gether; fry in sufficient hot lard to cover them.
When of  light brown take up carefully.
	Chops—Broiled.—Trim and flatten the chops
with a chopper, sprinkle salt and pepper on both
sides, dip them in melted butter, place them on a
gridiron and set on a sharp fire, turn over two or
three times to broil properly, and when done serve
them around a dish, one lapping over the other,
etc., and serve with the gravy. It takes about
twelve minutes to cook with a good fire. Another
way: When trimmed and flattened, dip them in
beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs and broil
either as they are or enveloped in buttered paper
	Kate's Pudding.—This Kate is a contributor to
the "Country Gentlemen," we think, but are not sure
that we have the right credit: "Yolks of four
eggs: one teacup of sugar; one quart of sweet milk;
one pint of bread crumbs; butter the size of an
egg, half a cup of raisins, (in the summer season
cherries, strawberries etc., are just as good); bake
half an hour; take the whites of the eggs and
beat to a stiff froth; add half a cup of sugar, and
the juice of one lemon (or lemon essence); return
to the oven and bake slightly. To be eaten cold.
	Rye and Indian Loaf.—Take two quarts coarse


corn meal, wet it thoroughly with two quarts boil-
ing water, add two quarts rye meal; mix inti-
mately, make into a loaf three or four inches deep,
or, if convenient, put it into Boston brown bread
pans, place on top of the stove, where it is barely
hot enough to make it simmer, let it stand here un-
til it cracks well over the whole surface, say an
hour and a half or two hours. Then put into a
hot oven, bake two or three hours, according to
the size of the loaf, then cool the oven gradually,
or take the loaf out and steam it an hour or two.
—Rural N. Y.


