R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Associations held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, June
20th, 1875, was presided over by Counselor
Mrs. Zina D. Young, in absence of the Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne. In her opening re-
marks she alluded to the sisters who were
absent South, in Sanpete Co., and remarked
though they were away from the meeting
they would not forget it, but would be unit-
ed in spirit with those who were there,
She expressed herself particularly gratified
with the minutes which had been read
there on that occasion. She then mentioned
the subject of sericulture and said it was
then the proper time to save the mulberry
seed.
	Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff made some
most excellent and appropriate remarks.
Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. J. Howe, Mrs. M.
E. Watmough, Mrs. W. East, and Mrs.
Foss, all spoke impressively of the work
now in progress, and the great mission giv-
en to woman to assist in establishing the
Kingdom of God upon the earth.


[Column 1]
VIRGEN CITY, KANE COUNTY,
					June 21, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of the President of the Re-
lief Society in this place, I will send a few
lines to you for publication in your valuable
paper, which we peruse with pleasure.
We held our Annual Meeting on Monday,
the 31st of May. It is seven years since we
organized in the capacity of a Relief Socie-
ty, with no other object in view but to do
good to those around us, and we have con-
tiuned steadfast from the commencement.
We are a settlement here of about thirty
families and very little money; what we ac-
complish by our own labor, and what we
have to sell, brings us some little means to-
wards helping the work along. We try to
be saints, and to live our religion, realizing
[Column 2]
that the promise is only to the faithful,
knowing that those who endure to the end,
will be saved in the kingdom of our Heav-
enly Father.
	Our Annual Meeting was well attended at
the Hall. President Sister Parker, invited
her husband Bishop John Parker and Bro.
Jepson first Counselor to the Bishop to at-
tend the meeting; they thankfully accepted
the invitation. The meeting was at 2
o'clock agreeable to appointment; called to
order by the President of the Society.
Singing and prayer. Minutes of the last
meeting were then read. The visiting com-
mittee then gave in their report. Next
came a report respecting the condition of 
the Society. Sister Isabella Hilton, a teach-
er in the society died since our last meet-
ing; she was a worthy member and died full
in the faith, leaving a large circle of friends.
We miss her society as we do that of many
other faithful sisters. Sister Parker gave
some very good instruction. She has always
endeavored to impart to us counsel in meek-
ness and humility. Sister Jepson bore tes-
timony in the same spirit. Bishop Parker
spoke encouragingly to the society, wished
them to persevere in well doing and they
would gain an exaltation; felt to bless them
&c. Bro. Jepson sanctioned what the
Bishop said &c. Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Dismissed by Bishop Parker.
		Yours with respect,
			ELLEN PARKER President,
				E. D. GARDENER Secretary.
					FAIRFIELD July 1st, 1875.
EDITOT EXPONENT:
	By request of our President I send for
publication the following minutes of the
sixth meeting of the Young Ladies Re-
trenchment Association, held June 8th 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved.
	Brother Zebedee Coltrin, of Spanish
Fork, (who was present by request,) then ad-
dressed the sisters. Said he was always
pleased to meet with the saints, and espe-
cially with the younger brethren and sis-
ters, who had just set out to form them-
selves into societies, to pray, to talk with
each other on the principles of the Gospel,
and to be instructed in them. These were
the most important subjects on which we
could receive instruction, they concerned
alike our present life, and our condition
hereafter. Such societies were being form-
ed in almost every settlement where the
saints had gathered, and in some places the
brethren as well as the sisters had associa-
ted themselves for this purpose, to re-
form and quit their evil practices. Said if
the sisters would persevere in discouraging
the attentions of the young men who drank
and used tobacco, the latter finding exclu-
sion from their society a greater depriva-
tion than they could well bear, would natu-
rally turn over a new leaf, and act in such a
way to render themselves agreeable com
panions. He would rather follow his daugh-
ters to the grave than to see them associa-
ting with those who followed such evil
practices, and from such society he con-
stantly kept them. He spoke of the present
extravagant style of dress among the sis-
ters, said formerly a sister could be known
as far as she could be seen, but now he did
not dare to speak to one whom he had
kuown for years until she was close enough
for him to be sure he was addressing
the right person. He also cautioned the sisters
against tight lacing, and said when called
upon, as he frequently was, to admister
to young women he could hardly get faith
[Column 3]
enough to do as he was requested, they had
so injured themselves by improper and
foolish habits. As for liquor, though men
and women too, said it did them good, he
could not believe it. It gave them false
strength for the time, but when that had
passed off they felt worse than ever. He
exhorted them to perseverance, and to con-
tinue in good works that they might not
lose the reward that they desired to win.
	Brother Carson followed in a few remarks
of much the same nature; said that if the
sisters followed the good counsel which had
just been given them, they would eventu-
ally become the wives of good men, and
that they need not fear they would have to
remain single because they persevered in
such resolutions.
	After singing the meeting was dismissed
by Brother Carson. Adjourned for one
week.
		ADA A. D. DURANT. Secretary.
			PAYSON, June 19th, 1875.
	Report of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Society.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest.
Martha Simons introduced Sr. Zina D.
Young who then expressed her pleasure in
seeing so many young sisters present—spoke
of the many duties that devolved upon
them, and their mission here on earth; en-
treated of them not to associate with stran-
gers, but to set an example worthy of im-
itation, and to shun the company of those
who indulged in light frivolous talk or slang
phrases, said there was no time to waste,
that great importance was attached to the
subject of HOME INDUSTRY. Sr. Barney
followed endorsing all Sr. Young had said.
She deprecated in strong terms the reading
of light literature, and solicited subscribers
for the "Woman's Exponent" and "Juve-
nile Instructor."
	At the close of the meeting a carriage
was in waiting to convey the ladies to the
depot escorted by some of the brethren and
several of the sisters feeling to bless them
for their teachings.
					M. A. HARDY.
		PROVO CITY, June 17th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The ladies of the several Relief Societies
of our city, met in the Meeting House by
appointment, understanding that Sr. Zina
D. Young and other sisters from Salt Lake
City would be present to instruct them in
their duties as members of Relief Societies,
and especially to encourage them to engage
in the business of sericulture. A goodly
number of the sisters were present and they
were agreeably surprised to find that Sr.
E. R. Snow was in the stand, having come
especially to meet with the sisters of Provo
by the morning train. After singing and
prayer Sr. M. I. Smoot introduced Sr. E. R.
Snow, who expressed her joy in meeting
with them again and then proceeded to in-
struct them in their duties in general, as
mothers and daughters in Israel. Especially
enjoining upon mothers to instruct their
children in the principles of the Gospel;
but was afraid that in some cases, mothers
devoted too much time to the dressing of
the bodies of their daughters, to the neg-
lect of the instruction of their minds in
those principles which would cause them to
grow up as useful members of society; al-
luded to the superficial education of young
ladies, which only fitted them for society as
the world understand it—but women, mem-
bers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, should cultivate themselves
and children in those principles which
would make them fit society for the pure


[Column 1]
in heart—exhorted the sisters to encourage
and aid the organizations of Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Societies, and to
maintain a lively interest in such organiza-
tions by their presence and counsels—allud-
ed to the fact that many of the women of
Zion were astray with the idea that they
had no time to attend meetings, or to give
to the culture of their minds, but that their
whole being and time must be given to the
drudgery of life, preparing food &c. What
mattered if the dishes should be left un-
washed to give time for attendance at some
meeting, nothing would materially suffer,
but good would result; still the domestic
duties of women should not be neglected.
She also urged the necessity of the sisters
making exertions to start the manufacture
of straw materials, woolen goods including
hosiery for infants and children's wear, and
also the culture of silk, on which subject she
would give place to Sr. Zina D. Young who
then addressed the Sisters. Her remarks
were chiefly in relation to the establish-
ment of the Silk Culture, giving an outline
of the habits of the silk worm, showing
that this branch of industry would give la-
bor to many among us who to-day were be-
ing in part supported by charity. Our cli-
mate was especially adapted to the business,
and everything was favorable for profitable
results in the production of it; continued
her remarks to some length exhorting the
sisters to seek to aid their husbands all in
their power in the duties of this life, and
in teaching their children the principles of
the Gospel.
	Sister Barney, in a brief and pointed ad-
dress exhorted the sisters to be humble be-
fore God and to help bear off the burdens of
the work with the presidents of their socie-
ties, not clogs in the wheel, but working
saints, full of suggestions and ideas for the
advancement of the society and for the de-
velopment of the HOME INDUSTRIES of our 
Territory.
	Sr. Brown of Pleasant Grove, made some
remarks confirming those of the former
speakers; after which Sr. M. I. Smoot in be-
half of the ladies of Provo, expressed her
thanks to Sr. E. R. Snow and companions
for their visit. and hinted that their practi-
cal remarks would be made available by the
sisters of Provo, for the blessing of them-
selves and children. Dismissed with pray-
er by Prest. A. O. Smoot.
	All present seemed impressed with the
good spirit and the wise counsels of Sr. E. 
R. Snow and companions, retiring feeling
well repaid for the time they had spent.
							A. T.
	Minutes of a Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of Payson City June 18, 1875.
	There were present on the stand beside
local authorities, Sisters Zina D. Young and
Elvira Barney of Salt Lake City, and the
President and Counselors of the Spring-
ville Relief Society.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Mrs. B. J. Simons introduced Sr. Bar-
ney who proceeded to address the meeting.
She deprecated the idea of our sisters asso-
ciating with strangers who come into our
midst, and said many are by this means
led away, not only from home and friends
but from the fold of Christ and become
cast-aways. Mothers should look to this,
and carefully guard their daughters from
danger, exhorted the sisters to live their
religion and to be united with the priest-
hood. Introduced the subject of sericul-
ture and related what the sisters of Salt
Lake were trying to accomplish in this direc-
sion. Denounced novel reading as being
[Column 2]
in the highest degree pernicious and evil in
its tendency, exhorted all to patronize the
"EXPONENT" and "Instructor," said the sis-
ters should attend their society meeting, and
patronize the Sunday School.
	Sr. Zina D. Young said the mission before
the sisters now was HOME INDUSTRIES.
The authorities of the church were anx-
ious to see the people adopt measures to
sustain themselves, and they required the
sisters to lead out in every direction possi-
ble for the attainment of that end. They
can make their own hats, their childrens,
and husbands and therefore save that ex-
pense every year. Sericulture was an im-
portant item and should receive our most
earnest attention. We would find that this
was the easiest way possible for us to pro-
duce our clothing. We should set our mul-
berry trees in abundance and every family
go to making silk. God requires us to
adorn our bodies with the workmanship of
our own hands, and we should set about it
in earnest. The speaker alluded to "Plu-
ral Marriage;" said it was the only way in-
to the Celestial Kingdom. We may expect
to meet with trials by the way, these are
necessary for our purification and we must
learn to bear them patiently and never try
to slide from under them and throw them
aside. In choosing husbands, select men of
intelligence, men of faith, men of God; and
thus secure to yourselves partners that
will be worthy of you.
	President Mrs. B. J. Simons hoped the
sisters would treasure up what they had
heard and profit by it, she then read a 
piece of poetry entitled "A Welcome to the
Sisters from Salt Lake City."
	Bro. I. M. Coombs made a few remarks
by the way of encouragement to the sisters in
their labor of love.
	Counselor Mrs. Agnes Douglas addressed
the meeting for a few minutes encouraging
the sisters to persevere and be blessed.
	The meeting was a very pleasant one and
will long be remembered by those who at-
tended it.
	Very Respectfully your sister in the
Gospel.
