	FRIENDSHIPS OF WOMEN.

		"Friendship is not a plant of hasty growth;
		Though planted in esteem's deep fixed soil;
		The gradual culture of kind intercourse,
		Must bring it to perfection."
	The sentiment embodied in this beautiful
extract from "Joanna Baillie," is one which
carries a conviction of its truth to every
strict observer of the laws of nature.
	Friendship cannot exist without a solid
basis, and time and cultivation alone can
rear such a one. To be sure, a casual and
timely kindness, administered, perhaps, in
an hour of extreme necessity, may bind us
unconsciously, and with gratitude, to one
whom we have never before met, yet it is
certainly an undeveloped friendship, com-
posed  more of gratitude than any other ele-
ment.
	Sympathy is one of the grand elements
of friendship, and helps to alleviate, soften
and cheer the adversities of our every day
life.  Our Savior possessed, in a most re-
markable degree, this genuine sympathy
for the poor, the needy, and the unfortu-
nate.  One of our favorite poets has said,
"Sympathy is the robe of friendship."
	Friendship among women is one of the
most prolific sources of happiness; there
are so many subjects of mutual interest con-
nected with the home relation, and the
peculiar position wives and mothers occupy,
that to feel perfect confidence in exchang-
ing ideas and sentiments, and in the expres-
sion of the finest feelings of the human
soul, there is a refreshing relief in being
able to confide in one another.
	The tastes of women being similar is an-
other adaptibility; there are so many mat-
ters separate and distinct from the ordinary
pursuits and occupations of men, which
pertain to a woman's active life, that will
admit of such a variety of interchange of
views that, however intimate their rela-
tions with each other, these seldom ever
lose their interest, or become stale or weari-
some.
	Men would fain have us believe, women
have too much envy and jealousy in their
composition, to be true enough to each
other to enjoy the sublimest order of friend-
ship; that rivalry is so strongly interwoven
with every fibre of their heart and affec-
tions, as to render them incapable of devot-
ed attachments to each other; but even ad-
mitting there are such natures, there are
others of a more exalted character, who are
too wholly destitute of selfishness them-
selves, to stoop to such debasing thoughts
and suspicions; who live under the influ-
ence of a higher element, and partake more
largely of the true spirit of benevolence
and Christian charity.  Are not such per-
sons capable of being devoted and ardent
admirers of all that is lovable and excellent
in each other? And when intimate asso-
ciation, together with surrounding influ-
ences which tend to heighten and strength-
en their confidence in each other blend and
cement their affections, they are assuredly
a comfort and a stay to each other, which
will bring additional happiness to invigorate


their higher natures. How often we hear
the expression, I have proved her. "Thou
art the friend to whom the shadows of long
years extend."
	Can there be anything purer than a friend-
ship between two or more women of supe-
rior natures, which time, pleasant associa-
tion and friendly intercourse has developed
and ripened? You may call it love, and to
a certain extent, perhaps, it is; but it is love
entirely free from passion, and I very much
prefer the term friendship—to me it is a
pleasant word, calling up a thousand happy
memories in the past, and suggesting many
pleasing ones in the future.  Such instances
are not rare, and where the Spirit of God
dwells in the hearts of those who are sus-
taining intimate family relations, the truest,
purest and most exalted friendship may
exist, such as time itself will only strength-
en, and will reach into eternity, purified,
refined and etherealized.
	It is my firm and full belief that the love
based upon true genuine friendship is the
most endurable, whether in men or women.
But in that as in every other sentiment or
principle of our lives there must be a cer-
tain amount of faith in the person, and good-
ness to inspire confidence; and the best
proof people can give of their sincerity
is that they trust without doubt or suspicion
in the integrity of those with whom they
associate.  We are all of the "earth earthy"
and consequently we crave more or less
companionship, but I do not know as that is
a result of our earthiness, perhaps it is a
misapplication of the term, but there is a
desire for congenial and friendly relations
which is a part of our nature; we find by
experience that all persons are not exactly
suited to each other, but that there are na-
tures which have a bond of sympathy un-
derlying them with which our own true in-
uitions mingle in sweet unison, and unity
brings happiness when it subsists between
women of kindred feeling, as well as when
it appears in the opposite sexes.
	July 14th, 1875.			EMILIE.
					E. B. Wells


