			YOU WRITERS.

	I do not know of what misdemeanor I
have been guilty that I should be so cruelly
victimized, but thus it is.  For the past
two or three weeks, everybody within
twenty miles around, who has had annoy-
ances of a certain kind to bear, has seemed
determined that I should share them,
whether my sweet temper and charity-lov-
ing spirit prompted me to offer sympathy or
not. Allusion is made to a class of writers
who do not succeed in getting their produc-
tions published in a manner satisfactory to
themselves. And to such I respectfully
submit the following—that is if it should
not find the same sad fate so many of my
friends' precious writings have, apparently,
met, to be consigned to the waste basket.
I do not propose to repeat here, the sor-
rowful, and in some instances disdainful
words to which I have listened; nor to pic-
ture the doleful or indignant countenances
which have been presented to me. It is
enough if I give my opinion on the subject,
and a few hints gratis, inasmuch as I have
been so often consulted.
	First of all then, be assured that it is
most absurd for any of us to take offence
because the judgment of another, particu-
larly an editor, should differ from our own
in regard to our  productions.
	Want of clearness in writing is a great
deficiency with many.  They write as they
speak without due consideration as to
whether they will be properly understood
or not.  As a consequence, the real beauty
and value of a composition is often hid
from all but the writer's own mind, simply
for want of clear and correct expression.
Even the talented and learned are frequently
guilty of writing thus obscurely, so that
they are only comprehended by the educat-
ed few.  While, I suppose, it must be to
the interest of journalistic editors to see that
only such things appear in their periodicals,
in a general way, as will be readily grasped
by the reading public, the semi-illiterate as
well as the more enlightened.
	Another grievous fault with many is, the
apparent idea of entirely exhausting an in-
teresting subject, saying all that is worth
saying about it, in one brief essay.  Could
this be done, the benefit of writing would
be obsolete in our day.  All would have
been said and printed in past ages, and
handed down to us.
	Upon the strength of this fact, realizing
that much more remains which might be
said with profit, but that I am only capable
of saying very little, I will cut this criti-
cism short, barely adding that as we do
nearly all other things, most of us write.
With too great haste and too little care;
thinking more of how much we can do,
than how well we can do it; feeling more
anxious to call our work completed, than to
pronounce it good.  I wish we could over-
come this infirmity as individuals, as a peo-
ple, a nation, a world.  And grow into the
more rational way of considering that the
more we  criticised by others; and the less
time we spend in criticising others, the
more we shall have for self criticism.
