[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: MARGARET CHERRY. | Author: Unknown]

MARGARET CHERRY.
	In memory of Mrs. Margaret Cherry,
who with her husband and six children
came to Utah in 1847 from Kentucky,
where she was born February 11, 1811.
They moved in the summer of 1848 to
Centerville, where she has lived ever since
until her death, which occurred October 18,
1898.
	Sister Cherry was a widow for thirty-
four years. When the Relief Society was
organized she became a member and officer
of that society and opened her house for
them to meet in. She afterwards gave a
small house to the society which they met
in for twenty years. As age and infirmities
came on her she was unable to leave her
home for a number of years. She was of a
peaceful disposition, a good neighbor and
endeavored to live her religion and keep
the golden rule. She died in full faith and
left a large posterity, of whom nearly all
are in the Church.
			MARY ROCKWOOD.
Centerville Relief Society.
KATE LAUGHAN LEISHMAN.
	We have been called upon to record the
death of one of our beloved sisters, Kate
Maughan Leishman, who departed this life at
her home in Wellsville, Cache Co., Utah,
Jan 15, 1899.
	Sister Leishman has been a faithful work-
er in our Relief Society, and has endeared
herself to the little band of sisters in this
branch by her sweet and gentle disposition,
and we her sisters offer these resolutions of
respect as a slight token of our love for her
who has been called to a higher sphere of
action.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That as God in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our dear
sister, Kate Maughan Leishman, we the
officers and members of the Baker City
branch of the Relief Society, express our
heartfelt sympathy for the bereaved hus-
band and family in their loss; also that they
have been greatly blessed with her sweet
and gentle influence in her home; and be it
further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be
placed upon our society records, one sent to
the bereaved family and one sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication.
			REBECCA NIBLEY, Pres.
			NELLIE W. ROUNDY, Sec.
A SAD BEREAVEMENT.
	Sister Elizabeth Pehrson, beloved daugh-
ter of Eric John and Anna S. Pehrson,
died January 15, 1899, after a lingering
weakness for some time, but was not con-
fined to her bed till one week prior to her
death, when she was attacked with an in-
termittent fever. Her weakness became
greater, though she took nourishment till
the last. She passed away without a strug-
gle Sunday morning between five and six
o’clock, in the arms of her beloved mother
and sister.
	Sister Pehrson was born and raised in
the Gospel and died a faithful Latter day
Saint, placing her religion above every
thing else. She was honest, virtuous, kind
and patient, never refusing any call that
was made upon her, therefore holding
many responsible positions at her death.

[Column 2]
	She was a teacher in the Sabbath School,
secretary in the Relief Society, second
counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A., and secre-
tary in the Y. M. and Y. L. Improvement
Association; also held the position of school
trustee and postmistress. She was born
April 28, 1873, at Vernon, Tooele Co., Utah.
	On Friday 20, her angel like form was
borne in a beautiful white casket decorated
with wreaths and blooming roses, to the
meeting house where the funeral services
were held. The stand was draped in white
and decorated with flowers, giving the
whole a beautiful appearance. The choir
sang “Guide Me to Thee.” Prayer was
offered by Brother David Bennion. Sing-
ing, “Wanted on the Other Side.” Consol-
ing remarks were made by Stake President
H. S. Gowan and our beloved Bishop J. C.
Sharp. The choir sang “Sister Thou
wert Mild and Lovely.” Benediction by
Neils Fredrickson.
	The remains were conveyed to the ceme-
tery in a light vehicle drawn by white
horses. The dedicatory prayer was offered
by President H. S. Gowan. The choir
sang “There is Sweet Rest in Heaven.”
The body was then carefully sheltered by
mother earth to rest in peace.
							C.
FRISTENCE MAGDALENE ERIKSEN.
	It is our painful duty to announce that
on December 4, 1898, occurred the death of
Sister Fristence Magdalene Eriksen from
heart failure.
	Deceased was born in Otostrup, Wolstrup
Sogn, Denmark, on the 11th of March 1857.
She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1880 and
emigrated to Utah in 1881. She was a
member of the Newton ward, Cache Stake
of Zion. She died in full faith of the Gos-
pel and with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. She was a member of the Relief
Society and always took an active part in it.
	The following resolutions were adopted
by the society in her memory:
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas in the providence of God it
has pleased Him to call away this our be-
loved sister to a higher sphere, and we
reverence Him who holds the destinies of
men and who permits nothing to come to
pass but for a wise and glorious purpose; and
	Whereas at the time of her death she
was an active member of the Relief Society
and was held in high esteem by all who
knew her, for her noble qualities, therefore
be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the
Relief Society of Newton ward tender to
the bereaved family our heartfelt sympathy
and condolence for the sad loss they have
sustained of a faithful wife and a loving
sister; and be it further
	Resolved, That a copy of this preamble
and resolutions be recorded in the minutes
of the Relief Society, and a copy printed in
the Woman’s Exponent.
		ELIZABETH FUNK,
		MARY JENKINS,
		MAGDALENE PETERSON,
						Committee.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT AND 
CONDOLENCE. 
	In loving respect to Sister Anna Lang-
hurst Layne, one of our pioneer women
and a faithful teacher in the Cardston Re-
lief Society, Canada.

[Column 3]
	She was born February 22, 1849, at
Stow on the Woods, Glostershire, England.
Died December 23, 1898, in Cardston after
an illness of two days, leaving a husband
and ten children to mourn her departure.
	Sister Layne came to Cardston with her
husband and family in the year 1887. She
was true to her religion and her covenants,
having embraced the higher order of mar-
riage for eternity she has now a claim to a
higher celestial glory. She was always an
energetic and faithful worker in the Relief
Society, a sympathetic and faithful nurse,
ever ready to assist the sick and the poor
and to cheer up the downcast; a loving
wife, a devoted mother, looking after her
children with a love unceasing. We feel
that her wise counsel will be heeded by her
children, (the youngest of whom is eight
years of age) that they will profit by her
worthy example.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His
infinite wisdom has seen fit to call home
our beloved sister, Anna Layne,
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister
Layne we are deprived of the society of a
loving sister and a dear friend, one who
was always alive to her duties and will be
greatly missed; so willing in the hour of
need, many sad hearts have been brightened
by her cheerful words of encouragement;
therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize
with those who are bereft and are bound by
the nearest and dearest ties, and we share
with them the hope of a happy reunion in
the bright hereafter. We pray that heaven’s
choicest blessings may attend the bereaved
family, and the spirit of the Lord be with
them to comfort and cheer them.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the bereaved family, one placed
on record and one sent to the Woman’s
Exponent for publication.
			SARAH B. DAINES, Pres.
			C. ELNORA WIGHT, Sec.
			LOTTIE BARTON, Rec. Sec.


