[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: DAVIS STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

DAVIS STAKE.

	Minutes of the Davis Stake Relief Soci-
ety conference held at East Bountiful Jan.
26, 1899, President Susan Grant presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.” Prayer by
Patriarch Judson Tolman. Singing, “How
great the joy that promised day.” Present
from Salt Lake City were Sisters Elizabeth
J. Stevenson and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. 
	President Grant said, “I wish to welcome
President Lizzie Smith and the young ladies.
I am pleased to have them meet with us in
conference. 
	Minutes of forenoon session of previous
conference were read and approved. Re-
ports read and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the meeting.
She fully realized what a great privilege it
was to meet together. We sisters had had
this privilege only since the Prophet Joseph
Smith had organized the Relief Society.
It was the duty of every sister to attend
these meetings and prepare herself for a
higher probation. “When I hear of so 
many going into forbidden paths I wonder
if the mothers have done their duty.  It is
just as necessary for our sons to be virtuous
as for our daughters. We should take an
interest in our sons and daughters, make
home pleasant and provide suitable amuse-
ment for them. The spirit of God cannot
dwell in unholy places.”
	Patriarch John Kynaston said, “I do re-
joice in being here. I feel full of the spirit
of the Lord. What we have heard has
been dictated by the spirit of God. If you
put these things into practice the Lord will
bless you. I say unto these young sisters
you will be blessed in bearing the sons and 
daughters of God. The Lord wants this
people to become one, and prepare the way
for His coming.”
	President Lizzie Smith said, “It affords
me great pleasure to see so many of the
brethren present and to be with you. I
think it is nice to join our societies, as we
all expect to be Relief Society workers at
some time. I was not born when the
Prophet was killed but I think it made an
impression on me. I think children are
influenced very young, even before they
are born. If the mothers would go to the
Lord with their troubles instead of the
neighbors, it would be a great deal better.
My advice is for us to put into practice the
many good things we have heard. I ask the
Lord to bless us all.”
	Bishop Egan said, “I have been pleased
with what I have heard, I think it has
been dictated by the spirit of God. We
have different influences to contend with,
the good and the evil. We should be on
our guard so we will not give way to the
evil influences. It is very necessary and it
is our right, if we live for it, to have the
spirit of discernment.”
	President Susan Grant said, “I have been
very much pleased with the remarks. I am
sorry President Hess was not able to meet
with us, but he sent his blessing.”
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction by Brother Clark.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Praise to the man.” Prayer by Brother
Duarden. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Minutes of previous after-
noon session read and approved.
	President Grant said, “I am pleased to
see so many present, may the blessing of

[Column 2]
the Lord rest upon all who may speak.”
	Sister Shipp then addressed the meeting.
She said, “I desire an interest in your faith
and prayers, for I desire to talk more especi-
ally to the young ladies and encourage them
to attend these meetings, for they are a
blessing to all of us.” Spoke of love and
charity, said we should all try and cultivate
these qualities. The mothers have a great
influence over their children. A woman’s
geatest mission is to instruct her children
in the proper way. We should all try to
control our children with a spirit of love.
Spoke of our Savior and the spirit of for-
giveness. Said, “Let us try to follow His
example, seek to know and do our duty at
all times and be prepared for eternal life.”
	Patriarch Judson Tolman said, “I will
tell you, my sisters, you are numbered
among those who are reserved to redeem
the world. We can all see the great neces-
sity of doing right and living our religion.
I tell you not only the young men but the
young women will be called upon to go on
missions. I bless you, my sisters, and
your children.”
	Sister Emily Parish said, “I realize so
much is required of us, but we should ask
the Lord what is most necessary to be done.”
Sister Caddie Parish said, “Where much
is given much is required, and none of us
lack for opportunities of improvement. I
trust we will all follow the good examples
of our parents.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant said, “I am
satisfied the spirit of the Lord is with us to-
day. The only desire I have is that I may
have a portion of it while I attempt to
speak. We should teach our children to
love and respect the authorities. Parents
should be very careful in speaking before
their children. I feel to say God bless this
and all other societies.”
	Sister Mary Clark said, “It is our duty to
ask the Lord for His blessing and what we
most need. I have been to the Lord for com-
fort and have been comforted. I feel to
bear my testimony to the Gospel.”
	Sister Stevenson said, “When our Patri-
archs speak of the degradation it makes me
feel like putting my shoulder to the wheel
and helping to regenerate the world. It is
the privilege and duty of the young ladies to
join these societies and prepare themselves
for eternal life.”
	President Susan Grant said, “I do not
think there is one in the house who has not
been greatly edified.” Spoke of the sis-
ters’ meeting on the 17th of March. “I
feel to ask the blessing of the Lord upon
all, I think we have had a day of rejocing.”
	Conference adjourned for three months to
be held at Centerville. Singing, “Guide
us O, Thou Great Jehovah.” Benediction
by Lewis Grant.
		SUSAN GRANT, Pres.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Sec.


