[Vol34 | May 1947 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Gems Norton]

CHALLENGE Alice Whitson Norton The human hand, however skilled In witchery of art, Has yet a rose to glorify With dewdrops in its heart. Where Trails Run Out Anna Prince Redd CHAPTER 4 [The incidents of this story are true and the characters authentic. The information has been carefully gleaned from diaries, journals, and personal interviews.—Ed.] Synopsis: A company of twenty-four young men and two families—James L. Davis, his wife Mary, and their four children; Henry H. Harriman, his wife Elizabeth, and their five children—are called to explore a route from Cedar City, in Southern Utah, to San Juan County. The two families are to remain in San Juan and, at a point where the Montezuma Creek comes into the San Juan River, are to establish an outpost and prepare for the coming of the main company of settlers, members of the San Juan Mission. The twenty-four scouts are to return to their homes and report their findings. The purpose of the mission is to cultivate and maintain peaceful and friendly relations with the Indians, who are almost the sole occupants of the large isolated country. While driving her team at night, across a sultry; menacing desert, Elizabeth has a frightening experience with a mysterious Indian. She feels that she will see the Indian again and that he will know if she needs help.. The company travels over rough and dangerous country. They cross the Colorado River, overcome the dangers of a steep ridge called Lee's Hogback, and continue their journey into the desert. After much suffering, the company finally reaches Moenkopi, an Indian outpost and a supply point for traders and pioneers. 'The Davis family remains at Moenkopi and the others go on toward the San Juan. They reach what seems to loom as an impenetrable forest of giant greasewood trees, mysterious and forbidding in the twilight. Elizabeth covers her face to shut out the sight of it, and she is glad that Mary is safe at Moenkopi. OR half a day the well diggers worked steadily, but without success. Road crews had rigged up a ten foot V-shaped wedge from a forked cedar tree and, with it hooked to four yoke of thick-necked steers, they attacked the greasewood forest. The tangled growth went down, snapping like green logs in a furnace, while splinters corduroyed the sand. George Hobbs sat his horse like a statue, not far from the workers at the well, paying little attention to the road builders. "I'm a born road builder," Silas Smith announced, watching the huge wedge as it mowed the thicket down. "Any doubts in your mind about that, George?" "My job seems to be well-digging, though I was not, fortunately, born to it. Scouting is a more interesting vocation. Any doubts in your mind about that?" George turned to grin engagingly at his superior officer. "Maybe you think I'm not a born scout, either?" "I'm just wondering about that," Silas said, and there was a frown between his deep-set eyes. "Where are all the Lamanites you said were following us?" George glanced uneasily at the thicket. Divining the direction of George's thoughts, Silas gave way to his own sense of insecurity, a feeling that had persisted despite the apparently calm scene of the morning's work. George, whose eyes had not left Page 315 the thicket, nodded ever so slightly toward a clump of trees to the left of the wedge and the swath it was breaking. Out of the trees, scarcely ten feet from where Silas was standing, emerged a single blanketed figure. "How!" The Indian guttural, stripped of all friendliness, was packed with menace. The Indian strode toward the well. Silas stood where he was, angry and ill at ease. George had been right. They were surrounded. Elizabeth, seeing the tall Indian at the well, dropped the canvas flap down over the front of her wagon, where her children sat in trained quietness. With the memory of that night in the Arizona desert to reassure her, she watched the fellow with fearless interest. THE DOUBLE-O ARCH This arch is the most unusual, if not the best known, of the sixty-four arches in the Devil's Garden section of the Arches National Monument, near Moab, Utah. WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT This Indian, she knew, had not come to beg. There was certainly no apology in his bearing. George Hobbs sat immobile, keeping his horse quiet by the pressure of his knees, ignoring the Indian completely. 'There was no sign that even his thoughts had been disturbed by the surly Piute. The work at the well, the raising and lowering of the big buckets that came up and down as the windlass turned, was all that seemed to interest him. The windlass brought up a bucket of earth. As it was dumped, he reached down from his saddle and took a handful of it, testing it for dampness between his fingers. Then he straightened up, still not looking toward the Indian. The bucket was dumped and went down again. The process fascinated the Piute. Hobbs let another handful of sand strain through his fingers. Elizabeth, watching him, detected an almost imperceptible quiver of his nostrils, and knew the well-diggers would soon strike water. The Piute seemed to smell the dampness. He leaned over and looked into the well pit. Then he straightened. Up and flung out his arm in an unmistakable signal. It was answered by two hundred scowling replicas of himself. Springing into existence from behind rocks, trees, and the tangle of greasewood, they crowded around the well. "Get into the thicket with that road," Silas yelled. ""We're going to need it, pronto!" There was a shout from the bot- 'tom of the well: "Here she comes! Bail us out!" Four men grabbed the windlass and began to turn it. There was 317 another shout from the well, "Hurry, she's comin' fast!" The Indians fell back, pushing over each other in their haste. The white men began to cheer. Elizabeth grabbed a bucket, and, shoving the Indians out of her way, she drew up the first pailful of muddy water. THREE days away from the nerve-straining camp at the greasewood forest, the travelers had hoped that the Indians would be miles away, too. Instead, they had increased in numbers. Squaws, papooses, dogs, and ponies had joined the original band, and now trailed after the wagons. Sullenly watchful, came the males. The squaws followed, shrieking into the canyons and calling vengeance upon the whites. Not bothering to beg, they helped themselves to the company's food, cleaned out the grass with their cayuses, drank the water from the pockets in the rocks, and dared the whites to like it or not. "How long are we goin' to stand for this, President Smith?" Hamilton Thornton asked, as he and four others of the drivers rode up to their leader. "What water the Indians can't drink, they pollute," he cried. "We're in for shootin' them back!" "That's right!" flinging dust and sand into the already charged air, Thornton's friends rode forward. "You men came along with this outfit to shoot game, not Indians," Captain Smith said, meeting them squarely. "Fire one shot, and those squaws will tear us limb from limb." "They're foul with smells," Thornton grumbled. "We can't stand it!" 318 "And the noise!" one of the others cried. "It'll drive us crazy." "It's when they're quiet that I start goose-pimples," Silas said, and grinned engagingly. 'Then he turned to regard the squaws, and concluded, "When they're raisin' cain like this I know that no real devilment is brewing. Now, you, Parley, and you, Hans; keep the rest of those hotheads cool, will you? And get back into your place in the line." Kicking up clouds of dirt before and behind the train, the squaws, bareheaded in the blazing sun, set their dogs on the company horses and crowded their own ponies in milling dozens ahead on the trail until, tired of entertaining themselves, they finally became quiet, let their ponies amble where they would, nursed their babies, and slept in the wake of their own dust. Believing that now, at last, the Indians would fall back and be gone, the company picked up its spirits. What were cliffs and canyons, ledges and rocks, against the screeching of that dirty pack of squaws and the imprecations of the scowling bucks? Now they could hear their own voices, the footfalls of their own horses, and they discovered that it was music. The trail writhed in and out of canyons, around cap rocks that became tam-o-shanters, over windswept ledges, and back into canyons again. For an hour Elizabeth reveled in its grandeur, pointing out red elephants that marched in profile along the cliffs, tall goblets that sparkled in the sun, church towers, and engine rocks that stood panting after their long climb up from the valley floor, shimmering with 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1947

 heat smoke that trailed after them back into the canyon again. Henry Harriman tied his lines to the wagon bow and came to sit beside Elizabeth. "I never saw anything like it, Bethy," he said. "This place just isn't earth. Its castles and domes, clouds and mirrors, and whispering winds." "Yes," Elizabeth agreed. "But at night, in the moonlight, there is a feeling I can't describe. Everything seems weird and unreal. And when all this warmth and color are gone these queer forms become ghosts. Don't all these overhanging cliff dwellings make you feel creepy?" "Nota bit! If San Juan's like this I’ll not be sorry I left Southern Utah." They fell silent then, stirred by the thoughts that he mention of home had brought. "It's a good thing we brought along all the water we could haul from the well," Henry said after a while. He scanned the sun for the time of day and concluded, "It looks like we'll have a dry camp tonight. We can't go much farther, and there is no water here." "If we get rid of the Indians, I'll not care whether I have a drink or not," Elizabeth answered. "They've been falling back for an hour, now," Henry said. "I wouldn't be surprised if we've seen the last of them." He gave Elizabeth a bouquet of velvet-white yucca blossoms, patted her hand encouragingly, and went back to his own team. Hours later the company was halted on a small plateau that narrowed to a neck and then dropped off into a dark canyon. It was stifling hot. Elizabeth WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT hoarded the water carefully, not daring to cool the children's faces, as she usually did. Their eyes were red and swollen from the heat and the pelting sand; their lips were cracked and dry. "Oh, my darlings," Elizabeth soothed them. "Mother knows you are hot and tired. But see, down there in the valley! That's a lake. Tomorrow my five precious ones shall wade in the water. You can splash it over your bodies. You can lie down in it..." Elizabeth and Henry, two gray figures between earth and sky, felt the night close in. 'Though neither voiced the fear, both were worried about the descent into the canyon. Exit or not, once down, there would be no climbing back up this crumbly ledge. "Isn't there any other way off this mesa?" Elizabeth asked, trying to sound casual. "George says not," Henry answered reluctantly. "Then there isn't," she said flatly, not without hope, but as an acceptance of fact. Henry put his arm around her shoulders and with his free hand took hold of her locked fingers. "Bethy," he said, hesitant and tender, "I'm not good at speeches, but I want you to know that I'd not be doing this wilderness-taming if it weren't for the Church." He looked at the sky, close with stars. "God's pretty near right now, it seems to me, and when we're miles away, down there, well, he'll be down there, too," he finished diffidently and kissed her finger tips. Elizabeth's eyes swam with tears. It took but one moment like this to 319 keep a woman at her man's side for a lifetime. There was the tinkle of a bell in the distance where the horses were grazing.... AS soon as it was light, the men were out making a road, and by noon they had a narrow dugway halfway down from the mesa. Things were going far better than had been expected. But, suddenly, there was a lull in the voices of the road crew, in the clank of tools. "What is it?" Elizabeth cried, running to meet Henry as he came up the dugway. "A twenty-five foot jump-off. We've struck a ledge!" he cried. "A hunk of rock as hard as granite!" "Can't they blast it back?" Elizabeth questioned. "The whole face of the mesa would slide off if we tried it. We'll have to chisel it off by hand." "Then it may be hours." Elizabeth turned to go back to her wagon. "More likely it'll be all night, Sis," George said, riding up in time to hear her last words. "And no water?" Elizabeth asked. "Nota drop! And no water pockets in the rocks, either." Sudden, homesick tears filled Elizabeth's eyes. What a heaven of love and happiness she had left. Here it was so hot. At home there would be a breeze in the cottonwoods. She looked at the nub of a candle that stood in its bracket ready to be lighted. At home there would be lights in every window of the town. But she would never see them again! She dropped her head to her arms and began to cry. The children came in from their 320 play and were hungry. She fed them and put them to bed. Then she walked away from the camp and stood looking up at the stars. "Father, help this parcel of human beings," she prayed. "Help these tired men to chisel back this stubborn ledge. And please, please, let nothing happen to the water in the canyon below." It was noon before the ledge gave way to the hammers of the weary men, and a road, looking like a long wounded worm, was chiseled to the bottom of the canyon. Elizabeth, ready with her team and wagon and her children, looked down the dugway in front of her, and a faint nausea attacked the pit of her stomach. The canyon was so far below! And there was nothing but dizzy space to look into! "Drive slow, and don't crowd the wall," Silas said to her in a low, assuring voice. "You are a good seamstress, Mrs. Harriman." Elizabeth smiled gratefully, afraid to speak for fear she would betray the giddiness that kept her head swimming. Silas looked her wagon and harnesses over carefully, tested the pin in the singletrees, and went on. Henry came to Elizabeth's side of the wagon. Weary from the long night of road work and anxious for her safety, he cast around for something to say that might help her or give courage. The answer lay in Elizabeth's parched and_ swollen lips. "We'll have water soon, Bethy," he promised. "Drive steady, my girl." Elizabeth nodded. Thank goodness she was next to the lead wagon. If any of the outfits got down safely it would be the first ones. 'That gave the children a chance. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1947

 "All right, Brother Decker, lead out!"" Silas Smith called. And the first wagon began its slow descent. Elizabeth released her brake, gave the lines a gentle lift, and took a long, deep breath. Then she followed the first wagon down the steep and narrow dugway, looking straight ahead, keeping her eyes glued to the little round opening in the back of the Decker wagon. Through it she could see James Decker's quiet shoulders. When the last wagon had made the descent and had joined the others in the valley, Elizabeth said to her husband as he walked beside her team, leaving his own to follow, "Henry that was the easiest driving I ever did." Henry drew his hand across his eyes and coughed the tightness from his throat. "It was a hazardous piece of driving, girl. One wagon out of control would have sent the whole face of the cliff sliding to the bottom, a mountain of shale and broken wagons and people." He coughed again. '""That's one place I never want to see again!" "IT wish we could go faster, Henty," Elizabeth fretted. "We are so thirsty. And we are still a long way from water. I gave the children the last drop in the canteen just before we started down." "You shouldn't have!" Henry cried in consternation. "Never use the last drop of water till you can touch the next!" "Why do you say that, Henry, with water right in sight?" "Tt's just natural caution," he answered. "Just plain common sense." Then, seeing her alarm, he added hastily, "But don't worry. This can- WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT yon is flat and smooth. We will roll up to the lake in no time." The teams, needing no urging toward the water, trotted down the canyon. Elizabeth struggled against an overpowering desire to sleep. Just to drop the lines from her aching hands and go to sleep. Her throat ached and her, head was still light. "Careful, there, Elizabeth," her brother warned as he rode the line. "One step into a hole or between these flat rocks could break a horse's leg." "Tl not sleep, George," Elizabeth promised, and tightened her grip on the lines. "But I'm praying we get to that water soon." The canyon narrowed to a mere corridor at the shore of the lake, leaving a door-wide vista of blue against the leaning cliffs that were reflected in the water. The tilted shadows made the lake look like a mirror hung on the walls of a rust-colored room. On the shore stood a lone heron, like a china statue, and it, too, was mirrored in the lake. The walls of the canyon, so close: to the corridor, 321 changed to vermillion, to blue, to lavender, and back to dull rust shades again. It was a breath-taking scene, but Elizabeth saw only the water. She knew that if she were to throw herself into it, face down, she would be cool, her lips would be wet with it, and her tongue would cease to choke her. Would the command to halt never came, she wondered. Had she only dreamed of this wonderful place? "Halt!" 'The command was sharp and imperative. Elizabeth whirled in her wagon seat. She had never heard such a tone in Silas Smith's voice before. Every wagon jammed to a standstill. The teams and stock threatened a stampede toward the water. "DearGod, what now?" she prayed. Water was there. She could see it, she could smell it on the wind, almost she could touch it with her hand. Yet they were stopped dead against it. She buried her face in her hands. She could not bear the picture of the lake.