[Vol34 | May 1947 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Mothers Makers of Men Moyle]

They are mothers and home-makers themselves. They under-stand the problems of homemaking and home management. They know what to look for in judging a family's situation. They are adroit in showing mothers how to get the most out of the means at their disposal. And this type of service is often much needed. In many homes where there is need, mothers do not know how to bake their own bread, remodel or make clothing; they do not know how to preserve fruits or can vegetables; neither do they know how to do their part in wisely managing any income the family may have. It is poor care of a family which fills its request for help without carefully studying its deep-seated needs and skillfully guiding and training it to-ward independence. TO thoroughly understand a family's situation, and to adequately plan for its present and future welfare requires time. Often many visits to a home are necessary to understand its situation and needs. Our interest in families should be a sustained interest. Relief Society presidents are, as a rule, freer to make these time-consuming visits than are bishops. So we feel ward Relief Society presidents are eminently qualified for this work. However, according to the 1946 Relief Society annual report, only very limited use is being made by bishops of Relief Society presidents in this capacity. The annual report reveals an average of only two family analyses per year per ward being made under the direction of the bishops. There were seven stakes reporting not one single analysis by a Relief Society president in any of their respective wards during the entire year. There were forty-two stakes reporting five or fewer visits throughout the entire stake during the year. The stake reporting the largest number showed an average of less than one visit per month per ward. We feel this is particularly unfortunate in t hat an unnecessary burden is placed upon bishops which ward Relief Society presidents are willing and qualified to carry. Not only this, but through bishops failing to so use Relief Society presidents, Relief Society is prevented from fulfilling instructions given it by Priesthood authorities which are basic in carrying out fundamental principles of the Welfare Program.