[Vol34 | May 1947 | Sequence: 21 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes to the Field: Relief Society Magazine Subscription Price Raised to $1.50 as of July 1, 1947]
Relief Society an Aid to Bishops President Belle S. Spafford [This talk was delivered at the request of meeting in the Tabernacle, Friday evening, E sincerely appreciate the opportunity afforded Relief Society of presenting to this great gathering of bishops, upon whom the Lord has placed the responsibility of caring for those in need, a few thoughts as to how Relief Society presidents may be. Of greater assistance to you in this important and sacred work. "The relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow, and the orphan, and the exercise of all benevolent purposes" was one of the primary objects of our Society as set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith. In this, as in all phases of our program, we work under the direction and guidance of the Priesthood. Relief Society is vitally interested in the Church Welfare Program as it is being carried forward today, and it is anxious to do its part according to the desires and recommendations of the Priesthood authorities who preside over us. In fact, our success as an organization must, in large measure, be gauged by the quality of our contribution to the Welfare Program of the Church. Every member of our Society is afforded opportunity to contribute to the Program by giving sewing service or service on canning or food processing, harvesting, or other Welfare projects. Our Relief Society presidents hold a unique position. They have been termed by Elder Harold B. Lee "the bishop's right-hand Page 306 Bishop LeGrand Richards at the Bishops' April 4, 1947—Ed.] assistants" in his responsible calling of caring for those in need. As an aid to the bishop, it is our opinion that the most valuable contribution a Relief Society president can make is to visit, at his request, the home of each family %r ward member in distress, study its circumstances and needs and then make recommendations to the bishop, in private, as to the care of the family. This service is in harmony with recommendations to bishops in the Church Welfare Handbook of Instructions, which states: Any family reported to be in need should be visited immediately in order that an intelligent analysis may be made. Subsequent assistance should be based on this analysis. Responsibility for this visit and analysis rests with the bishop, but it is recommended that he call upon the ward Relief Society president to make this investigation. In making this analysis careful consideration should be given to all known factors, and recommendations should be made to the bishop for the care of the family, both as to meeting any immediate, urgent needs, and with respect to assisting the family in solving other problems with which it may be confronted. This is a logical assignment for Relief Society presidents since they are qualified by nature and experience for this type of work. Relief Society presidents are women of judgment and spiritual strength, otherwise as bishops you would not have called them to so responsible a position as that of a Relief Society president. They have sisterly, sympathetic insight into family problems.