[Vol34 | May 1947 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Heights Evelyn Fjeldsted]

Canine HEIGHTS Evelyn Fijeldsted Could there be heights of joy in the world Where peace above all else is treasured, Except there be depths where time disciplines, Depths from which heights must be measured. Pioneer Cookery Beatrice K. Ekman WHEN the persecuted saints were driven from their homes in Nauvoo in the dead of winter to brave the sweeping blasts of the wilderness storms, they took for their cooking equipment their iron pots and bake-kettles, skillets, and brass buckets, great and small. They cooked at the camp-fire and slept in flimsy ground shelters or in the camp wagons, grouped together for safety, along the swampy river basins, with only the slender re-sources of the camp to protect them from the rigorous snow and sleet of winter. They suffered the pangs of hunger and were reduced to the most meager fare, and days on end they had nothing but water gruel, for which they gave thanks. After they had eaten their scant fare they gathered before the bonfires and sang and were merry- When they reached the gathering place at Winter Quarters and built their one-room sod houses or dug-outs, they made their fireplaces of sod with the grass side turned to the fire. Here they cooked by means of the bake-kettles and other iron pots. The bake-kettle was an iron pot with three short legs and a heavy convex iron lid. It could be set directly on a bed of coals raked out to the side of the fireplace. The biscuits, corn bread, loaves, or cake were put in, the lid put on, and a shovelful of live coals placed on top. Pioneers used to say that nothing baked in a cookstove ever tasted so good as the things that came out of a bake-kettle in the fireplace. Meat was either cooked in the bake-kettle or broiled over the red-hot coals. If one did not have a bake-kettle, corn bread and corn dodgers could be cooked on hot rocks in front of the fire. The Indians used this method for their corn bread. In the early spring of 1847, when the first company of pioneers left Winter Quarters for the long trek across the plains, they were well pre-pared and organized. One historian has said: The organization and order in the camp was so perfect that not infrequently, half an hour after a halt, the people sat down to a comfortable meal of broiled meat and fresh bread. They baked their bread as soon as the fires were made and the bake-kettle hot, having mixed the dough on the way in the top of the sack of flour. For sour-milk biscuits, how-ever, they stirred soda into a cup of sour milk and poured that into the flour, added a little salt, and mold-ed the biscuits with quick fingers. They were ready for the oven in about the time it takes to toast a piece of bread in an electric toaster. Corn bread was also made and baked in the same fashion. There was an abundance of wild game and wild geese, ducks, prairie chickens, and turkeys which were sometimes killed by the camp hunters. From the streams they obtained fish and, along the banks, they found 312  wild berries and red currants and yellow and black native currants, bullberries, gooseberries and strawberries. The fruit, together with pigweeds and thistles, helped to vary their diet. When the pioneers were in timber country they burned the wood that they could obtain along the way. On the plains they burned sagebrush, which they found at times growing ten feet high. When there was no other fuel they used the dry buffalo chips, as long ago the wandering tribes on the Arabian desert used the dry dung of camels for fuel. When wild game was plentiful, Brigham Young advised against unnecessary slaughter. The hunters kept the camps well supplied with buffalo, elk, antelope, and deer meat. After one big kill, the camps laid over to dry the buffalo meat in the hot sun. The lean meat was cut into strips and dried. This method was learned from the Indians. In June the company found their flour almost exhausted and more was miraculously procured from a company of Oregon emigrants which an advance group of pioneers ferried across the Platte River in a skiff. These emigrants paid them $1.50 for each wagon and load ferried over. They paid in flour at $2.50 for each hundred pounds, when flour, at that time, was selling at $10 for a hundred pounds. This flour was divided among all members of the camp and it amounted to five and one-half pounds for each person. "It looked as much of a miracle to me," wrote Wilford Woodruff, "to see our flour and meal bags replenished in the Black Hills, as it did to have the children of Israel fed with manna in the wilderness." When Jim Bridger ate breakfast with Bigham 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1947

 Young on the plains, he said he had seen more bread on Brigham Young's table that morning than he had seen in years. HEN the pioneers entered the Valley they planted all the seed that they had brought for that purpose. Flour and meal were scarce and supplies were carefully husbanded. They dug sego roots, Jerusalem artichokes (perennial, sunflowers), and gathered pigweeds, thistles, and dock to supplement the lack of flour. The land for miles around was dug up for sego-lily bulbs and thistles and some of the pioneers were poisoned by eating wild onion roots which they mistook for sego roots. In the spring of 1848 flour was scarce and many suffered with hunger and they had to boil rawhide for soup. Lorenzo Young, after sharing his last pound of flour with someone less fortunate, was without meat and flour. He traded a yoke of large oxen for a beef that a California emigrant had saved. He was to give the man, also, a quarter of the beef when he had slaughtered it. He did this and hung the hide on bushes, with the meat side out, and the magpies feasted on it. The beef lasted some time and then he was again without food. He took the hide from the bush, cut it into strips and soaked it in City Creek until it was soft. He worked over it for two days cleaning it by scraping the hair and dirt from it, then he turned it over to his wife and she made glue soup of it. She set her table attractively with a favorite set of dishes she had brought from Nauvoo, and placed the dish of soup in the center of the table with a ladle to convey it to the PIONEER COOKERY plates. They blessed the soup and gave thanks. This was one instance of many when people were obliged to eat this fare. After the harvest of 1849 times were better. The people were thrifty and the gold seekers on their way to California brought in many delicacies. There was wild game in the hills, wild geese and ducks on the sloughs and - springs, crops were good, and the Pioneers began to Prosper. There was an abundance of green vegetables of every variety, cucumbers. Their with the best of and melons and tables groaned foods.. Could be used 'was thrown away. If a beef was slaughtered, the hide was tanned for leather, the hoofs boiled for glue, and the intestines were washed and scraped to be fried in butter. They were considered quite a delicacy and were called chitterlings. The other intestines were used for casings for sausage and headcheese, 'The bladder was used for casing lard. The stomach was used for tripe. The meat that was not used fresh was Pickled in salt brine for corned beef, and there was no waste surplus. If any one slaughtered an animal he traded with a neighbor, and the neighbor did the same in his turn. The housewife was expert in making cheese, butter, lard, and sausage from pork, salting down meat, and making soap and candles. Grease from the cooking and other refuse fats was stored away during the winter and the lye for soapmaking was 313 leached from the wood ashes that were saved from winter fires, The Soap was made in the spring. A leach tub or barrel was filled with the ashes and the water Poured in a little at a time until the lye seeped out from a hole in the barrel near the base. It was repeatedly poured back over the ashes and the ashes renewed until the lye was strong enough, then the lye and fat were poured into the huge brass kettle and boiled until done over a fire in the open. Saleratus was also used in place of lye for soap. En the lye was rendered and the fat was poured off, the leftovers were saved for cracklings. These were rolled into the dough and baked in flat sheets. The wood lye was also used for making the lye hominy, This was an essential food and a favorite supper or breakfast dish either fried with bacon or eaten in a bowl of milk. The hominy, as well as the sauerkraut, was always made in the fall, Headcheese, calves' or Pigs' feet jelly and Sausage were also made in the fall. Tomatoes were cooked and poured into five gallon coal oil cans and the lid screwed on and sealed with beeswax. The potatoes were stored in pits, as were also carrots, Parsnips, and cabbage. The cabbage was stored with the roots above the ground. These pits could be opened on a favorable day and the desired supplies removed, in the summer, Starch was made by grating peeled starch spread on sheets to dry. This starch was used for cooking as well as for laundering. The milk was kept in springhouses. The bladders of lard, the 314 headcheese, and sausage were hung from the ceilings. There was a dirt floor and the walls were whitewashed. 'These springhouses were built of adobes, rocks, or logs, preferably over a stream or spring. Molasses was first made in 1852 but, before this, boiled sugar cane supplied some sweetening. Much cottage cheese was made and was always on the table, as were honey and molasses. Hot milk was a favorite drink for supper. It was not until 1852 that the iron Charter Oak stoves came into use, with their shoe-shaped ovens and four-holed tops. Before this the cooking was done entirely at the fireplace or on open fires outside by means of the bake ovens or iron pots. The stoves were usually set up on bricks or blocks to make them higher. PIONEER RECIPES HEADCHEESE Take one half hog's head and one half beef shank. Scrape clean and remove ears and eyes, cleanse and wash well, Put into small amount of water and boil until meat leaves bones. Chop meat into coarse pieces, season with salt and pepper and place in muslin bag. Press under weight until cold. Remove cloth and slice for serving. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1947

 SAUSAGE Grind shoulder of pork through sausage grinder. Season with salt, pepper, and garden sage. Shape into small cubes and fry. CALVES' OR PIGS' FEET JELLY After cleansing, boil either feet of a calf or the feet of a pig until tender and the meat has loosened from the bones. Strain through cloth and pour into molds. When cold, serve as dessert with cream and sugar. SCRAPPLE Take the head, heart, or any lean scraps of pork and boil until the meat slips easily from the bones. Remove the fat, gristle, and bones, then chop fine. Set the liquid in which the meat was boiled aside until cold. Then remove the cake of fat from the surface and return the broth to the fire. When it boils, put in the chopped meat and season well with salt and pepper. Let it boil again, then thicken with corn meal as you would in making ordinary corn meal mush by letting it slip through. The fingers slowly to prevent lumps. Cook for one hour, stirring constantly at first, then boil slowly. When done, pour into a long, square pan, not too deep, and mold. Cut into slices when cold, and fry brown, as you do mush. This is a cheap and delicious breakfast dish. LUMPY DICK Take water that is boiling and salted and stir into it, very carefully and slowly, white flour until it reaches the consistency of mush, and serve either cold or hot with cream and sugar.