[Vol22 | October 1935 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Claire Stewart]

By Claire Stewart Boyer The purpose of the home," says a recent book on the family, "is the preservation of culture and the development of personality." Now culture is largely preserved and personality is best developed through the cultural spirit of one person inspiring another.
Usually the medium of spirit is words, well chosen words that lift hearts to a higher level.
There are words used in some homes that brand children in their own minds for a lifetime.
Certain of these are criminal phrases because they put a child on a bestial level.
From which he never rises, they kill the spiritual bud so that it never comes to full bloom.
These are: liar, thief, brat, pig, little devil. Idiot.
They are the harshest, most cruel words that can be used. To the impressionable they are stabs which always leave a scar.
They give children complexes which they find difficult to eliminate. The cultured soul will not allow such words to befoul the lips. A child usually wishes and somewhat intends to live up to what his mother expects of him. If she brands him with the title Liar, he immediately knows that she does not consider it beneath him to lie. So he is more likely to do so. "Give a dog a bad name and hang him," is still a truism. But woe to the parent who puts the stigma upon her own child! The divine within each child must be maintained and the major responsibility lies with the mother. Now instead of using this negative method of giving a child a sense of right and wrong, the psychological method of raising a glorious standard before his eyes is the only wise one to employ.
Through it even criminals have been resuscitated. The shining strength of truth, the satisfaction of honesty, the possibility of a child rising to the level of a god can easily be phrased.
Call a child a pig and he may be only a grunting little animal with no cleaner ambition.
Brat is the most devastating of all words. A woman who thinks of children in terms of brats, whether they are her own or her neighbors', is sadly in need of spirituality, but if she utters the word she is little short of contemptible.
Slightly less despicable are words and phrases which degrade children by giving them a sense of shame. "Shame on you," is the easiest reprimand for the parent.
Analyze shame and you will feel the blot it leaves on the soul. I was happy the other day when my own little laddie in speaking to his dog said, 'Fritz, I can hardly be proud of you for doing that. I'd like to be proud of you all the time.
Remember that."
Sometimes in off moments a mother sees the fruit of her teaching and it carries its own glorious satisfaction. I have the testimonies of several women that one word given by a thoughtless mother has been a lifetime handicap, an open sore. The child that is growing fast is often termed "lazy". The child with admirable will power is disparaged by being called "stubborn." The ambitious child is often regarded as 630 selfish and that spoken reproach deadens this most precious virtue.
Other such destroying imps of words are: stingy, simpleton, dumbbell, ‘fraid-cat, story teller.
There is no need of using any of these. For stingy there are several delightful quotations such as "the gift without the giver is bare," "we keep only what we give away," "when I do a thing for you I do it for myself, do you mind." Or for smaller children, "doesn't it make you happier inside to make someone else happy?"
There are as many phrases for developing generosity as there are cultural people who will take time to think in well-chosen words. For simpleton, King Solomon might well be referred to. For 'fraid cat, "I am God's child, no harm can come to me," has saved thousands of children from terrors untold. In handling the story teller phrase a difference between the child's whimsical imagination and his desire to deceive must be made. One mother made a contract with her children to let their eyes twinkle when they were imagining. The scheme worked.
Mother and children laughed together over delightful exaggerations and the truth was kept on a high and trustful level. For helpfulness—'"be a good scout" might be used effectively; for concentration—"screw your courage to the sticking place and you'll not fail;" for endurance—"be a good soldier;" for patience—'remember Job," etc.
There is a world full of heroes that may be referred to. For tiny tots there are good fairies, brownies, guardian angels, gentlemen, queens and knights.
We need not even retire to the past for our inspirations. We have our Lindbergh, our Byrd, our Cadman—thousands of heroes and heroines of today. Let us use gentle phrases, not harsh terms; encouraging words, not disheartening ones; inspiring words, not dispiriting ones. Let this be our new resolution, for our phrases can make or unmake our children.
Culture is marked by sincere aspiration toward a spiritual personality. —PLEA— Give the little lads your dream They can hold its precious wonder, Tell them of the lives that gleam — With a glory just as tender As the story of the saints That the Bible proudly paints; Tell of men who walk today In the same appointed way.
Give the little lads your dream They can shape their aspirations From your gentle words that beam With the light of inspiration; Tell them of a world made whole By the courage of the soul; Let them know the men today Who would make the world that way.
Give the little lads a dream They can but rejoice in sharing Let them know that love and truth Are the standards they are bearing.
Give the little lads a dream Even though the world may seem At the point of crucifixion,— Give them faith in resurrection! Happenings