[Vol22 | October 1935 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Mother Deserved a Harmer]

Come into
MOTHER DESERVED A VACATION 625 the living room and I'll tell you about it," said Loretta dragging her mother into the room and putting her into a chair. "Paul wants me to become engaged to him and I love him so much, but of course I wanted your consent first and I couldn't possibly have waited three weeks." "But my dear," pleaded Emily, "you are only eighteen." "How old were you when you became engaged?" "Well," admitted her mother, "I was just eighteen too — but times were different then." "Perhaps," agreed Loretta, "but I don't imagine people were. May I tell him that it is all right?" "I'll have to talk it over with your father first," was Emily's only concession, "and I should like to take off my hat, if you have no more startling news for me."; "Whoopee! If it isn't our good old pie-maker back again!" and Bob practically tumbled into the room, the flippancy of his welcome was softened by its warmth. "You're just in time," he continued after a hug of the bear variety. "So I have learned," smiled his mother. "The scouts are having an outing for mothers at Lacy's Grove. Gosh! It wouldn't have been anything at all if you couldn't have been there. And you don't even have to do any of the cooking," he assured her. "We are going to do it all ourselves. Aren't you glad you came home?" "Yes, I'm glad, son," she answered in good scout fashion, then turning to Loretta, "How are Julia and the baby?" "Julia's all right but I believe the baby is upset." "I'll run right over.
There will just be time before dinner and then I won't have to worry about him," said Emily with her accustomed energy. She walked quickly to her daughter's. How rapidly life and events moved, she reflected, and how essential it was always to live to the fullest and not let any of the worthwhile moments escape.
Inside the house, she found Julia vainly trying to soothe a fretful baby. "Oh, mother," she sobbed, "I'm so relieved you've come. I can't seem to do a thing for him.
Everyone says that the second summer is the hardest and I'm scared to death." "Well, everyone is wrong," declared her mother as she picked up the baby. "The second summer is no harder than any other summer if you use a little common sense. Let's give him a cool bath first and then see what else should be done for him."
Emily tied one of Julia's aprons over her 'good' dress and then proceeded to undress and bathe the baby. He seemed to feel at once that he was receiving more expert care and his wailings began to subside.
When she had finished with the final deft administration, Julia, who had been watching her intently, said, "What wonderful hands you have, mother.
Every move they make is so capable."
Emily held out her hands and looked at them as if seeing them for the first time.
Then as she smiled, she said, "Yes—I suppose there is a difference in hands." Babies