LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November)
THE CHILD STUDY COURSE
Lesson 8. (a) Bridging the Gap Between Our Knowledge of Child Well-Being and Our Care of the Young, and the (b) Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development.
We now enter upon a new phase of our study of the child, his nature and his needs. Up to this point (part one of the text) we have been concerned with the fundamental principles of child nature?the laws of psychology, character development, learning, etc. From now on (part two), however, we are going to examine the principles of child-care as they are illustrated in our knowledge of such things as nutrition, mental development, mental hygiene,

delinquency, adolescence, care of intellectually inferior and superior children, etc. (We are making one lesson out of two chapters for the reason that Chapter VIII, Bridging the Gap Between Our Knowledge of Child Well-Being and Our Care of the Young, is largely a summary of the seven chapters which follow it. The valuable parts of the chapter will be discussed in subsequent lessons. For this reason, the reader might very well omit it.)
A. Bridging the Gap. This excellent statement (Chapter VIII) of the fact that society knows a lot more about children than its members put into practice, is made by Dr. H. H. Goddard, a very able authority on feeble-mindedness and delinquency. It was he, by the way, who first adapted the now-famous Binet-Simon intelligence tests to American conditions. He is now professor of psychology at Ohio State University. He makes three important points to which we should like to call the reader's attention.
1. "The gap between our knowledge of child well-being and our actual care of the child is enormous." The author argues that if the care of youth were "efficient and intelligent," society would be getting an increasingly stronger grip on such chronic social ills as juvenile delinquency, crime, insanity, etc., while as a matter of fact, conditions in this respect are getting worse. It might very well be objected, however, that social conditions are not so black as Dr. Goddard paints them, and even if they are, the situation is not due solely to society's inability to rear its children according to scientific principles. It is very probable that many of our social ills are also due to defects inherent in the social order.
2. His second point is that notwithstanding our elaborate knowledge of individual differences, we still act as though people are fundamentally alike. It is interesting as well as surprising to note that one must either get into the hands of a physician, a lawyer or a social worker before his "case" or his "problem" is individualized! Teachers and parents, speaking generally, have neither a technique nor a philosophy for dealing with children individually. When parents and teachers do individualize children?and many do?it is usually by rule of thumb methods. One of the most imperative needs in education is for a scientific procedure for individualizing normal children in the home and in the school.
3. Dr. Goddard's biggest and best-stated point is that the child is endowed by nature with certain strong impulses which must be socialized by habit-training. "In the modern world," he says, "we live close together and in a cooperative society. We have divided up the work of life, so that we are each dependent
upon all the rest. Under these conditions, the instinct to hoard and accumulate becomes stealing. The instinct to deceive becomes lying, and unlimited sex activity becomes immorality."
Questions
1. Discuss the relative merits of the following frequently-quoted aims of public-school education: the acquisition of skill, the acquisition of information, the development of character, the development of wholesome personality, preparation for vocation.
2. Assuming the fact, why is there such a wide gap between what we know and what we do about child care? Consider, for example, how little we do to prevent the spread of scarlet fever, to keep children from being hurt or killed by automobile, etc.
3. What special provisions, if any, do your local schools make for (a) superior children, (b) mentally defective children, (c) children with a special talent or disability? To what extent is religious education in your community (e. g., Sunday School, Primary or Religion Class) influenced by the fact of individual differences?
B. Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development. Dr. Emerson, professor of children's diseases at Tufts Medical College, Boston, has given us in Chapter IX a nice, simple statement of the bearing of nutrition on the child's mental development. He states clearly and with emphasis the outstanding fact in this relationship, namely, that mental development accompanies physical development; that mental backwardness goes hand in hand with physical backwardness. There is no one fact in the entire science of child development quite so well established as this. In a recent study of several hundred gifted children by Professor Lewis M. Terman of Stanford University, this principle is again corroborated. The causes of malnutrition as Dr. Emerson sets them forth, are not "lack of food" as many parents have supposed, but a complex of factors calling for expertness in diagnosis and treatment. It will be very striking to many persons of the "new" as well as the "old" schools of child care to hear the child specialist say: "We can discover which of the causes of malnutrition are operating in any given case only by complete social, physical growth, and mental examinations. Each of the three is essential." The mental aspect of nutrition is so important, yet so rarely recognized, that we are including here a few excerpts from a chapter on "Learning to Eat," from Blanton and Blanton's recent book, Child Guidance (Century, 1927). On the perplexing subject of thumb-sucking, for instance, we read: "Since thumb and finger-sucking must be considered as an

indication of the appetite or the state of metabolism of the child, mechanical restraint such as elbow cuffs or aluminum mitts, or pinning the sleeve to the bed, should not be employed. The remedy lies in diet and sunshine.
"In nearly all infants and young children there is a tendency to suck the fingers or thumb when sleepy. This, one can afford to ignore, unless it is carried beyond the third year. It is a normal infantile form of gratification." On the subject of the child's refusing food in order to gain attention, we have the following explanation: "Often, when the appetite is poor or the child has been unwell, he has to be coaxed, petted, cajoled and urged to continue his feeding in order to empty the bottle or breast. As a result he develops a method, perhaps subconsciously, whereby he gets attention by refusing his food; and unless he is very hungry, he is apt to resort to this procedure to get this attention." The infant must not only learn to eat, but must learn how to eat with others, in the approved fashion. To parents with problems of this sort, the Blantons say: "To require children to sit with adults and accept the adults' rate of eating; to watch the adult dally over a special food which to him is delectable; to sit through the conversation of parents often without saying anything or getting any attention, is destructive of good discipline.
"Women who do their own housework often do not realize that it is actually more convenient to feed children before the family sits down to the table. A small table for the children can be arranged in the kitchen, and a little festival made of the meal." And finally: "The child's meal hour should not be looked on as an opportunity for a lesson in eating only. The mother should take this occasion to demonstrate to the child?by example, not by precept?some of the social graces requiring tact and skill. At least one meal a day should be made a "party" with the child specially cleaned and dressed and on his best behavior."
Questions
1. What are some of the mental or behavior characteristics of malnourished infants and children?
2. What are the five chief causes of malnutrition, according to Dr. Emerson?
3. What is a "nutrition class"? Are there any such in your community?
4. Just how much malnutrition is there among the school children in your community?
5. What is the general nature of the health work in the public schools of your community? Is it adequate? Does it include any mental hygiene?