[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Paradise of Childhood]

Paradise of Childhood Ida Smoot Dusenberry. It was Hearing midnight, the stillness, the anxious watching of a heart-broken, weary, worn mother, the hopeful chains of a father endeavoring to breath faith into many anxious hearts which where surrounding the sick bed of a child, just four, was a scene recently revealed to me. I responded to the call, "Come quickly, for J is dying." I knew from the worn little face that she was soon to go and as we listened to the last convulsive sigh I felt that part of my soul was passing away with hers, for her rythm, her music, her laughter, her sunshine had become a daily anticipation to me. She had grown into my heart for she had become a revelation of all the happiness and wonder of maturing childhood. But all to quickly w:e realized she was gone. The little figure. so white and still, was a picture of loveliness as she was lying there clasping in her arms the thing of earth she loved the best, a beautiful doll. As I lifted it and looked into its face many memories passed through my mind. All the wonderful emotions of real motherhood had become a part of her life and understanding, through the love of that doll. She had washed it, she had dressed and undressed it, she had sewed for it, she had punished it, she had nursed it while sick, she had loved it back to health. It was the last thing she asked for, the last thing she recognized and the last thing she loved. This incident so impressive, so lasting, is the incentive for taking you with me in memory on a journey backward to our days of dolldom. There is nothing so conducive to good control and educational advancement as an occasional hour spent in the land of memory, where we can lay bare and fully analyze our feelings at different stages of life, the things then that caused anxious days and nights, burning indignation, lonely fears, outraged sense of justice, shame, freedom, tenderness and love. More frequently analysis of this nature would bring numerous hours of happiness, which are at present erased from the lives of suffering children. During the instinctive, emotional years of fancy, there are many days of childhood passed wholly in impersonating some person or thing. At the present time I have a little girl in the Kindergarten who daily whispers what she would like me to call her. Recently she was Mrs. R — , a neighbor, and refused to respond by word or look unless she 
 was so addressed. Mrs. R had three children, and the three Kindergarten dolls were subjected to Mrs. R 's daily discipline. Such play, like transmutation of the self, is sometimes carried over long periods. In a great deal of this play-action there is scarcely any adjustment of scene, the child with his vigorous fancy plays out his part with imaginary surroundings. A chair or the arm of a couch makes a prancing, kicking steed, he kicks it. he whips it, he talks to it, and in his imaginative play finally arrives at his destination weary from the struggle with the fractious animal. It is this same breathing of life into playthings that is seen in all its magic force in the play with dolls. The child dreams its doll into a living child. When it is ill her solicitous anxiety prompts the most tender care and sympathy. Unobserved, I have watched the most realistic sick-bed scenes. In a darkened room with a bandaged head, the doll lies, forced to submit to castor oil (water), and pills (rice), and after the struggle comes restless exhaustive sleep, encouraged by hushed voices and tip-toe steps. The unstable diagnosis of the attending physician makes very aggravating cases of measles, whooping-cough, small-pox, all within fifteen minutes. With all the dignity and solemnity of a grave occasion, the family are warned of the impending danger. This is only typical of but one has of child life. Do we realize its significance? Have we thought just what it means in the great scheme of a developing and growing soul? Are we making the most of this wonder period of infancy, when sympathies are keen and love is tender? Do we encourage the parental nature just in its tenderest age of building? Or in our brusque and realistic hurry scoff it into scorn. Nothing so fully opens up the juvenile soul to students of childhood as closely observed doll play. Severe punishment is often inflicted for a dirty face, a torn dress, etc., which marks the rise of the child's consciousness of order and cleanliness. Whispered confidences to the doll often reveal the longings of a child's heart. In punishments and rewards the baby mother's ideas of morality are best seen and known. She feeds the doll with what she likes best, she depicts her own moods in the treatment of her doll, her aesthetic taste is revealed in dress, hats, wraps, etc. She teaches it the culture that she has acquired, and we find it unhesitatingly removed from the dinner table when it becomes "sassy" or rude. Children learn to Avash, iron, sew, knit, do millinery work, design dresses, acquire color combinations, and prepare PARADISE OF CHILDHOOD 211 food for the doll. Singing with expression is acquired so well in no other way, and stories original and rehearsed, find a harvest in doll play. I make no plea for finished, elaborately dressed dolls. I have seen the stove poker wrapped in a tea towel, receive the most sincere and tender affection. This is no lack of aesthetic culture, but only enjoyment in an object offering possibilities for the play of imagination. A middle sized, ordinary doll which lends itself to all kinds of manipulation is the preferable doll to buy. In my own childhood I had a beautiful doll with clothes securely sewed on, which sat in the buggy to be admired and choicely shown to friends, but the thing I loved was a little brown shawl tied around the center with a big red bow, with fringe for hair, painted, white cloth face and snug little bonnet. Just why boys are never encouraged to play with dolls seems strange to me. Perhaps by nature they are not quite so tender, and perhaps they have tastes somewhat wider and more varied, but the parental, imaginative instinct is there and should receive the same amount of encouragement. The child must live in play, the thing he is endeavoring to learn and comprehend, for this reason it ceaselessly continues, and at the end of each day exhaustion carries the tired little soul into dreamland. "Watch as your baby grows, and you will see That his whole life, wherever he may be, Is a perpetual mimicry. "An engine now, he puffs with all his might. Anon with brow perplexed he feigns to write. Or strides his chair a mounted knight. "Brimming with life, but knowing not as yet Even the letters of his alphabet. He imitates each pattern set. "And, watching him. perchance you question why Each new activity that meets his eye Excites him his own skill to try. "His is an instinct ignorantly wise, Only in doing can he realize The thing that's done beneath his eyes. "A stranger, midst the surging life of men. He to his own life's stature must attain By taking to give back again."