[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS 243 or dislikes were any indication of what his body requires. It should not be a question of "making" children eat foods which are good for them, most children are reasonable human beings and can be led to try wholesome foods for which they have formed a dislike, particularly if such foods are well cooked and served attractive.” That one's tastes and preferences are of practically no importance in making selection of food was shown by a series of experiments reported by Dr. Phillip Hawk. On certain days a group of men acting as subjects of experimentation were allowed to eat wholesome food of their own selection;  on other days they were fed equally wholesome and nutritious foods but chosen particularly with reference to the dislikes of the subjects. Analysis of the excreta showed that the foods disliked by the subjects were as completely utilized as were the foods they themselves selected. An evidence that appetite is not always a safe indicator of the body's needs is found in the fact that under-nourished children, invariably have poor appetites. Social workers among the very poor of our large cities and that they must create a desire for food in sufferers from malnutrition before they can accomplish much in the way of cure. It is not necessary to go to the very poor of large cities to find cases of this kind. It is not uncommon in our own communities to hear mothers assert that their puny, undersized children do not need an increased diet because they have no appetite for more food. It is regrettable that in many such instances mothers cannot be brought to recognize the true condition and make an effort to remedy it by means of wholesome foods well cooked and served attractively, and at regular intervals. Effect of Eating Habits on Quantity and Kinds of Food Taken. Irregularity in eating is the cause of more childhood ills than one would imagine. Eating too often brings a child to the table with impaired appetite, hence all foods except those especially liked, are rejected, if this is allowed. The result is a poorly balanced meal, probably an unbalanced ration for the day. In a short time malnutrition develops, and perhaps indigestion also. One of the most pernicious habits among children is eating candy at any and all times, because it destroys the appetite, causes various digestive disturbances, and tends to create an acid condition in the system bringing in its train a long series of ills. Adding candy of good quality to the dinner dessert or substituting it for the regular dessert once 
 or twice a week should satisfy the children and would not be injurious. Meals too far apart result in gorging, thus overworking the digestive system and often resulting in a lower percentage of food being utilized by the body than when smaller quantities are taken at shorter intervals. Another extremely bad habit is that of rapid eating. Children hurrying off to school, eager to be at play, will unconsciously form this habit unless closely supervised. Clean linen, attractive dishes, pleasant conversation, in which the children are encouraged to join, insistence on an erect position at table, will all tend to overcome this habit. In rapid eating mastication is imperfect, thus increasing the difficulty of digestion, bringing about in time distressing digestive conditions. The rapid eater loses all pleasure which comes from appreciation of food flavors, and invariably eats much more than is necessary. All these habits tend to lower resistance to disease so that a child forming one or more of them is usually among the first to contract measles, scarlet fever, chicken pox, etc., when those diseases make their appearance in a community. Kinds of Food Suitable for the School Child's Diet. It must not be forgotten that a growing child needs every day foods containing all the various food constituents discussed in the previous lesson of this series. Of the protein foods, eggs and milk are the most desirable for children, since they form no undesirable products in the body during the process of digestion and metabolism and are not nearly so subject to purification in the digestive tract as is meat. The almost endless variety of dishes that can be made from combinations of milk and eggs, together with cereals and vegetables, make it possible to have a pleasing variety in the diet without use of other protein foods. Nuts are difficult for children to digest, both because of the high fat content of most nuts and because it is difficult to teach children to masticate thoroughly;  dried peas, beans and lentils are best served in soups to children up to eight years at least;  cheese is not advised before the seventh or eighth year, and should be cooked before serving;  meats should be broiled, boiled, or roasted, never fried, and should not be overcooked. The school child's diet may include all the common carbohydrate foods, though sugars and syrups should, of course, be used in moderation, even by the older children. Nearly all cereal products are excellent for the school child, and there is a delightful variety available. Practically all obtainable fruit may be used, but for younger children, especially GUIDE LESSONS 245 under-ripe fruit, or fruit of comparatively hard structure, such as some varieties of apples, are best cooked. Bananas should have the rough surface scraped off after being peeled, but are safer cooked. Nearly all of the common vegetables are given to children of school age, though no uncooked ones are advised before the seventh year. Cucumbers and green corn are best omitted until after the tenth year as they often cause digestive troubles. Gream and butter are the best fats, especially for children under ten years of age, but most of the common fats and oils may be given in small quantities. Notwithstanding the claims of advertisers there are no butter substitutes comparable with good butter, either in flavor or in food value. QUESTIONS. 1. Give reasons on to determine its food needs. why a child's appetite may not be relied 2. How would you go about overcoming a child's dislike for foods, good for him? tite? 3. How would you improve or increase a child's appe- 4. What ills follow eating too often? 5. How could you cure a child of the candy habit? 6. What are the evils of rapid eating? How could you overcome this habit? 7. What protein foods are most desirable for children? Why? 8. What vegetables would you omit from the diet of a child under ten years of age? 9. What is the best way of serving dried peas, l:)eans and lentils, to the younger school children? RESPONSE. L. Lula Green Richards Unto what shall I liken your fair floral gift So it comes a bright promise my soul to uplift? As a blessed reminder of peace void of strife, A true message of faith unto newness of life. I can say with King' David, great Psalmist of old, 'Tis than honey more sweet, more desired than gold. For it is of the Lord and inspired from above, A pure emblem of friendship perfected in love. "Ye shall love one another!" the Savior hath taught, Thanks, thanks for affection His teachings have wrought. For our work in His service of love most divine. For your love and its token, sweet sisters of mine! Voices from the Dead. R. S. H. R. S. HORNE. Sort with feeling. Our pleading looks— could'st thou but see, Our anxious 2. Let mercy plead — let truth di - vine, Encompassed 8. Would'st thou the grace of God re - ceive, And glory 4- So shall thy peace on earth be won— The day of hearts— could'st thou but know. Our yearning H souls now turned to by true, ten - der hearts, Around thy soul let love add to His great name, Then from our tor - tures us refree - dom dawn for aye. The Father and the Ho - ly .  thee — A gen'rous fire in thee would start, twine. As from the heart the teardrops glow, lir.ve, And set our hearts all in a flame, Son, The glorious light of truth dis play. VOICES FROM THE DEAD 247 fc OBOBUS, Firm. Thou hast the key As Christ our Lord to torn the in mer - cy lock, And o - pen came, And brought to Let not our cries resound in vain— Dis - pel the We wait for thee to act thy part, So noc – es wide our prison hate;  That we in vain no long - er us the living word. So thou in his most gracious dark - ness— shed the light — And burst at once the galling sar - y us to free;  Oh! wake dear friends, dear lov'd ones merit. knock, But be re - leased from our sad fate, name. This pre-cious boon to us af -ford, chain, That binds us with its shackles tight, start! With anxious hearls we wait for thee. j£: l  -#i- Pi yr—