[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Official Round Table]

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 225 1900-1910— (Ridicule Gives Way to Argument). 1910-1912— (The Portent of Victory). Two interesting features of the convention were the Pageant and the Pioneer Banquet. At the Pageant, costumes from 1838 were worn by lovely girls, and motion pictures were thrown upon the screen, showing by figures and maps the historical status of suffrage. In introducing the pictures it was stated that Utah had suffrage in 1870, and that Utah women voted before the women of Wyoming had an election opportunity. At this Pageant, Utah was represented by Miss Marjory Thomas, who was charming in the living valentines of states. The Pioneer luncheon was a gorgeous event, introducing some of the oldest suffrage workers in the Eastern states, notably Mrs. Marriette Taylor Treadwell, 84 years old;  Dr. Julia Holmes Smith, nearly as old, and Rev. Olympia Brown, 92 years old. All three of these spoke in the most charming modern way of conditions as they are, and conditions as they will be for women voters, in medicine, education and the ministry. At both the Pageant and the Pioneer Banquet, Mrs. Gates wore a home-made, Utah, silk dress which attracted much attention. An amusing feature of the great Victory banquet was the entrance of two girls, one with a huge donkey's head nodding about, the other with a great elephant's head and trunk wobbling around, placed on each side or Mrs. Catt as if to solicit her friendly aid and support. Throughout the convention the Utah delegates were proud of Utah's position, presented and recorded in this greatest After of all suffrage the closeconventions. of the convention, Mrs. Gates and Mrs. Kesler went on to New York, Washington, and Boston, where they will visit the various branches of the Relief Society and Genealogical Libraries. National Council of Women. The biennial session of the National Council of Women of the United States was held in St. Louis in November. The Relief Society was represented by Counselor Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and Miss Sarah M. McLelland. The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association was represented by Counselor Ruth May Fox, and Miss Mary Connelly. Twenty-five of the twenty-seven national organizations were represented;  and in addition, three state organizations. The sessions of the council were presided over by the president, Mrs. Philip N. Moore. Reports of the chairman of standing committees were given on the following subjects: Child Welfare;  Community Music;  Education;  Federal Co- 
 operation;  International Relations;  Immigration;  Permanent Peace;  Public Health;  Better Films. Very interesting reports were given by the delegates from each organization. Mrs. Lyman and Miss Connelly gave the reports of the work for the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A. In the election of officers, Utah was honored by the election of Mrs. Ruth May Fox as auditor of the National Council. Mrs. Phillip N. Moore was re-elected as president. Resolutions were adopted favoring a Child Welfare commission in every city;  a national department of education;  the appointment of women on all boards of education, both state and local;  the promotion of thrift;  a minimum wage board;  joint and equal guardianship of parents over minor children;  laws legitimatizing children born out of wedlock, with the right to the father's name, and to inherit from both parents;  an action to allow women married to aliens to retain their own citizenship if they so desire;  and to require foreign women married to American men to elect whether they will be naturalized or retain their citizenship;  the establishment of a new department of social welfare, with a secretary who shall have a seat in the President's cabinet, which secretary shall be a woman. It was resolved that the council recommend the fostering of all industries with preference to those of American origin. It was resolved also that all organizations urge Congress to restore the national employment bureau to its previous power and working capacity. On the return trip Mrs. Lyman stopped off at Denver where she had been invited to read a paper on social work before the Colorado State Conference of Social Work. While away the Utah delegation visited the Western States Mission at Denver, and L. D. S. meetings at the new chapel in St. Louis. Relief Society Headquarters. The General Board is very pleased to announce that the General Authorities of the Church have turned over the entire second floor clusive use. of the means This Bishop's the Building addition to of the Relief for its south side of the floor consisting of four large, beautiful rooms formerly occupied by the Y. M. M. I. A. executive, and "Era" offices. This news will be especially gratifying to the older members of the organization, who have always hoped that some day there would be a woman's building in the Church, dedicated entirely to the use of the women's auxiliaries. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, editor of the "Relief Society OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 227 Magazine," will occupy the offices (No. 20), formerly occupied by Edward H. Anderson, editor of the "Era." Rooms 21 and 22, formerly used by the Y. M. M. I. A. staff, will be used for the office of Counselor Julina L. Smith and for the Burial Clothes Department of the Society. With partitions removed, the rooms are beautiful and spacious. The Burial Clothes Department has been moved from 67 East South Temple St., Room 23 will be the office of General Treasurer Emma A. Empey;  Room 24, the office of First Counselor Clarissa S. Williams. Mrs. Wells will retain her present office. Room 25, in the southwest corner of the building. Room 26 will be added to 27 and 28, forming the general offices of the Society, and headquarters of General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, business manager of29theand"Alagazine," 30. and staff, will occupy, as formerly, President Emmeline B. Wells' Birthday. On Saturday, February 28, a celebration was held in honor of the ninety-second birthday of President Emmeline B. Wells. The affair was in the nature of a reception on the mezzanine floor of the Hotel Utah, where Mrs. Wells, dressed in a dainty satin gown, received more than six hundred guests, who came to offer congratulations, between the hours of 2 and 6 p. m. Among the callers during the afternoon were President Heber J. Grant. President Anthon H. Lund, and President Charles W. Penrose. Governor and Mrs. Bamberger, and Secretary of State Harden Bennion and wife. Musical numbers were given by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, assisted by the Relief Society choir, and by a stringed orchestra, conducted by Miss Romania Hyde. Mrs. Wells received telegrams and letters of greeting from friends all over the United States, and many beautiful floral offerings. Assisting her in receiving her guests were Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith, her two daughters, Mrs. Isabelle Sears, and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, and members of the General Board. Oh Thatch Jower MM J Paul Deschanel, new president of France, assumed office February 17. Korea is still warring against Japanese occupation, and the fighting is likely to spread to China. Earthquakes continued in Mexico in February, the loss of life at one place being estimated at 1,000. A British fleet arrived at Constantinople on February 23, indicating the prospect of trouble in Turkey. A temple site of 20 acres was purchased at Mesa, Arizona, in February, and building soon will begin. The British parliament began its session on February 10, with one lady member. Lady Astor. Her first speech was against the liquor traffic. New York City saw in February the worst weather of its experience in the past thirty years. A lynching party at Lexington, Kentucky, on February 9, was checked by police and state troops, who killed five would-be lynchers in the fighting. The death rate in the United States in 1918 was 18 per 1,000 — the highest rate yet recorded in this country.