[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
Guide  Lessons 
LESSON  I. 
Genealogy  and  Testimony 
First   Week   in    May. 
MORE  LIGHT  ON  BAPTISM  FOR  THE  DEAD. 
TEXT:     "The  Compendium." 
AIM  :  The  prominent  feature  in  the  plan  of  redemption  is 
the  vicarious  nature  of  the  labors  of  Christ  and  his 
ministers  for  the  salvation  of  men. 
The  Lord  knows  the  transient  nature  of  the  memory  of 
many.  He  understands  how  forgetful  we  would  become  if 
we  were  not  continually  reminded  of  him  and  his  love,  his 
laws,  and  his  kingdom,  so  he  has  given  us  scriptures  which 
are  the  sacred  writings  prepared  by  prophets  and  priests, 
who  have  written  about  his  hand-dealings  with  his  children 
upon  the  earth. 
The  standard  books  of  the  Church  are  our  scriptures  that 
contain  a  vast  store  of  information  of  every  conceivable 
principle  of  truth,  morality,  and  virtue.  It  would  be  a  super- 
human task  to  memorize  all  these  scriptures  and  to  quote 
them  at  a  moment's  notice.  Some  gifted  speakers  can  quote 
freely  and  liberally,  favorite  passages  illustrating  favorite 
doctrines  of  the  Church ;  but  wise  men  have  prepared  for  the 
assistance  of  the  great  majority  of  Saints'  references  to  the 
passages  in  scripture  which  deal  with  the  various  subjects 
and  principles  of  the  gospel.  The  "Compendium"  was  the 
first  one  so  prepared,  and  in  that  volume  we  find  an  excellent, 
brief  article  concerning  baptism  for  the  dead,  with  numerous 
references  from  the  sermons  of  our  modern  prophets.  An- 
other article  treats  upon  the  spirits  in  prison,  and  contains 
elaborate  and  precious  quotations  from  the  Bible,  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  Doctrines  and  Covenants. 
The  vicarious  mission  of  the  savior  is  treated  simply  and 
clearly,  and  we  are  told  that  this  vicarious  labor  included 
not  only  the  possible  salvation  for  the  living  ones  who  heard 
the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy,  but  the  prisoners  in  the  pit 
and  those  who  sit  in  darkness  in  the  prison-house  are  all  to 
be  visited  and  given  an  opportunity  to  accept  the  gospel. 
Elijah's  coming  to  the  earth  is  referred  to  and  the  sweeping
