ROYAL WEDDING.

	"Princess Louise, eldest daughter of the Prince
of Wales, was married at noon July 28 to the Earl
of Fife; it was raining. The ceremony took place
in the private chapel of Buckingham palace.
This is the first marriage that ever took place in
the chapel, which is small and the number of
guests therefore limited. Bride and groom arrived
privately. The Princess of Wales, the Crown
Prince of Denmark, King of Greece, Prince Al-
bert Victor and Prince George of Wales assem-
bled in the Bow library of Buckingham palace at
11:45, and there awaited the arrival of the Queen
from her private apartments.
	The bridal party, consisting of the Prince of
Wales, Princess Louise, Princesses Victoria and
Maud of Wales left Marlborough house, the
residence of the Prince of Wales, at 11:40 for
Buckingham palace. Notwithstanding the rain,
the route to the palace was crowded with specta-
tors and there was a vast concourse of people
opposite the palace. The Prince of Wales was
enthusiastically cheered.
	On their arrival in the Bow library the Queen,
accompanied by the Grand Duke of Hesse, led
the procession to the chapel. It comprised the
Queen, members of the royal family, the King of
Greece, the Crown Prince of Denmark and other
guests and officers of the royal household. The
procession on its way to the church passed
through several royal apartments in which many
guests, who found it impossible to enter the
chapel, were seated. Upon reaching the chapel
he royal personages took seats on either side of
he altar.
	The Earl of Fife, who was attired in a highland
costume and wore the garter of the Duffs, accom-
panied by the groomsman, Horace Farquhar, took
a position at the altar rail and awaited the coming
of the bride. The prince of Wales, with the
bride and Princesses Victoria and Maud of
Wales and members of the household arrived at
the palace just before noon, and were received by
the lord steward and conducted to the Bow library
where the bride was joined by the bridesmaids,
Princesses Victoria and Maud of Wales, Prin-
cess Louise of Schleswig-Holstein, Princess
Victoria of Teck, Countess Fedora Gleichen,
Countess Victoria Gleichen and Countess Helena
Gleichen. The bridal party then proceeded to
the chapel. The bride wore a duchesse dress of
white satin with a flowing train, trimmed with
orange blossoms, a wreath of orange blossoms
and a point de gaze veil.
	The bridesmaids were dressed in blush pink
faille, and carried bouquets of pink roses. The
clergymen officiating were the archbishop of Can-
tenbury, the bishop of London, the dean of
Windsor, domestic chaplain to the Queen, Pev.
F. A. J. Harvey, domestic chaplain to the Prince

[Column 2]

of Wales, and Rev. T. Teigmouth Shore. The
Prince of Wales gave away the bride. The
choral service was sung by the choir of the
Chapel Royal, St. James. The feature of the
service was the singing of a special anthem en-
titled "O, Perfect Love," composed by Joseph
Barnaby. There were many of the ministers
present. Gladstone was also among the guests.
	The Queen wore a dress of black brocade and
appeared to be in excellent health and spirits.
The Princess of Wales was attired in a pearl
gray satin brocaded with silver, and a tiara of
diamonds. After the benediction the Queen
kissed the bride and cordially greeted the groom.
After the wedding there were two separate break-
fasts in separate chambers in Buckingham palace.
One party consisted of the bride and groom, the
Queen and other royal personages and other
guests. Toasts were given to the Queen and
groom. After breakfast, the Earl and bride, the
Princess of Wales and bridesmaids returned to
Marlborough house, the bride and bridegroom oc-
cuping the first carriage. Later in the afternoon
the newly married couple departed for Sheen
house, a surburban residence of the Earl of Fife,
where a portion of the honey moon is to be
spent.
	On arriving at Sheen house the newly wedded
pair were enthuastically welcomed. They passed
between files of Venetian masts decorated with
floral festoons. The house was covered with car-
pet, on which wild flowers were strewn by girls
dressed in white. At night Mort lake and Rich-
mond, in the vicinity of Earl Fife's house, were
illuminated.
	The Prince of Wales gave a reception at
Marlborough house this evening, which was at-
tended by 10,000 persons."


