EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	"A woman that feareth the Lord she shall
be praised."
	I take the Liberty of writing you A few
words of praise and encouragement for our
beloved Stake Prest. Sister Willmirth East.
as I am one of her nearest neighbors and know
ing of her labors and good works in S. L. City
as a Counselor in the Relief Society ten years
in the 14th ward where she was well known
and highly respected by all the good and
honest L. D. Saints. I must say in her be-
half that she has not ceased to continue in her
good works in this far off land where she has
resided for the last ten years and held the
office of Stake Prest of the Relief Society,
both here and in the Eastern Arizona Stake.
And I know for a certainty that she has done
the works of a true and faithful L. D. Saint
in striving to build up the church and King-
dom of God in nursing and cheering up the
sick administering to the wants of the needy
and comforting the distressed as all who are
familiar with her labors can testify; myself
with the rest of the sisters here waited and
looked  with patience for the report of her
labors through the columns of the Exponent
at the late Sisters' conference held in S. L.
City, but it seems we waited in vain until this
late hour which I assure you was a great disap-
pointment to us all.
	Prest. Layton after his return home from
the recent confereuce in Salt Lake at a Sun-
day meeting held at this place remarked that
he could find no Report from our Stake Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, and could not
understand why it was not published. We at
least expected to see a notice of her safe arrival
in Salt Lake City and did not know why a
Sister so good and faithful to her duties could
not receive the least notice or respect that
should be due, as she has written so often to
the Exponent and worked so hard for its ad-
vancement we can but feel that some respect
and notice is due her, from its pages. I can
testify that Sister East has her religion at
heart or else she could not have labored so dili-
gently under the many disadvantages that she
has. I have seen her pass my door in an old
lumber wagon driving her own team going to
the adjonining settlements to fill her appoint-
ments, she did not wait for a carriage to come
after her as many of her Sisters there would
have done under similar circumstances. Both
herself and counselor Sister Mary L. Ransom
have labored incessantly to fill their callings,
and have even waited by the wayside to get a
ride in order to fill an appointment, when I
have witnessed this I have remarked to her.
"Dear Sister East would that I were able, you
would not go in that style to do your duty?"
And her reply to me would be "never mind our
Savior was poor when he was on the earth am
I better than He?" I pray there are better
days in store for her. Both the Twelve and
visiting brethren when in this vicinity always
have called upon her at her home and have
had words of comfort and a kind and hospit-
able welcome. If her home was humble
happiness was there. She is sent for by all
who are in trouble to comfort them which is
one of her greatest gifts, she is beloved by all
the saints here, the Sisters here missed her very
much and long for her safe arrival home to
see her dear face again, as I know, for they are
continually asking about her, these are the
feelings of every Sister that has spoken to me
since her departure.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
		Jennie East.


Vote the People's Party ticket on election
day and send honorable men to the Legislature.


[Column 1]

