JUAB STAKE.
	The forty-fourth Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of the Juab Stake of Zion
was held in the Nephi Tabernacle Friday June
21st, 1889.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth presiding: After the
opening exercises of singing and prayer, and
calling the Roll and reading the minutes of
the previous Conference; the Presidents gave
verbal reports of the Branches over which they
presided.
	Mrs. E. R. Mary Udall reported Nephi,
Serena Aaggard, Levan, Mrs. Eliza Somer-
ville Mona, Sister Pitchforth reported Eureka.
The reports were very favorable showing the
Society in all its branches to be in good condi-
tion, spiritually and temporally. The sick and
the needy were visited and comforted and had
their wants supplied. The remainder of the
time was spent in short addresses by Mrs. Mary
Pitchforth, S. A. Andrews, Alice Bascome,
Miranda Bryan, and Bishop Udall. The pro-
per training of our children, the responsibility
of parents, the blessings of God to us as a peo-
ple, were spoken upon. Meeting adjourned
until 2 p. m. with singing and prayer.
	In the afternoon meeting the Secretary read
the 21st, Annual report of the Nephi Society.

[Column 2]

Mrs. A. L. Bigler made a few remarks, after
which Mrs. Andrews sang "My Own Land
Deseret." Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
occupied the remainder of the time. "We
should cultivate our faith in the Gospel and
confidence in the Priesthood. No one should
think her own example is unfelt or unnoticed.
	We should use the best of language, exercise
as much or more faith and patience at home
than any where. We are rewarded as we go
along in the consciousness of doing right, be-
sides the great reward we expect when our
work is finished. The Lord has wonderfully
blessed the Relief Society since its organiza-
tion." Spoke of the storing of grain, and of
the calamities that were coming upon the in-
habitants of the earth. "We know the
prophecies are being fulfiled, and we should
be prepared to render aid temporally as well as
spiritually." Encouraged parents to send their
children to Primary meeting and cultivate
faith in them. "Young ladies should be care-
ful to marry pure men who are well developed
physically, as well as morally and spiritually,
that their children might have strong healthy
bodies. We ought to systematize our work so
that we can have moments for rest and prayer.
Zion is going to be built up as has been pre-
dicted." Spoke of the courage and heroism
displayed by women in passing through the
severe ordeals which have been brought about
during the persecution for principle and con-
science sake, and said many other good things.
	Sister Pitchforth thought there was an in-
crease of faith in our midst, was well pleased
with her labors in Juab Stake. There was a
good attendance and an excellent spirit in all
our meetings. After singing and benediction
by Patriarch J. G. Bigler, the Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		M. E. Teasdale, Sec.


