TRIFLES.

	"Think naught a trifle, though it small appear,
	Sands make the mountains, moments make the year,
	And trifles, life. Your care to trifles give 
	Else you may die, ere you have learned to live."

	The term trifles, as we look upon it, suggests
to our minds something of little value or im-
portance. Yet, if we consider these trifles, when
brought together and arranged systematically,

[Column 2]

the aggregate will astonish us. This vast
universe is composed of minute particles, each
of which alone is useless; yet when arranged
under the all powerful hand of the Creator,
how infinitely grand and wonderful the result.
Each grain of sand, each drop of water,
though alone of no value, fills its own office
and fits into its own place. Even the smallest
particle has a mission to fulfill. One drop of
water, and one grain of sand, would never be
missed, but by the displacing of these particles
one by one, the faces of continents have been
changed, and oceans have been obliterated.
	Compared with this great world of beings,
each individual is but a trifle, yet, how sadly
one is missed from the home circle, which
gathers at the fireside, though many be left.
To make the gathering complete, the absent
one is needed.
	Our character, good or bad, is made up by
little acts repeated again and again, until
habits become so fixed upon us, that it is
next to impossible to get rid of them. Each
act helps to make up the great fabric of
character which we begin to weave in our
earliest childhood, and continue to old age, and
which affects our destiny, not only for time,
but for eternity.
	An act of charity is a small thing, some-
times, but the giving of a penny; yet some one is
made happy by it, and is grateful for that
which we never miss.
	A kind word is a trifle, and requires but
very little effort on our part, yet how powerful
is its influence; many have been spurred on to
great and glorious deeds, by kind words spoken
to them when they had met reverses, and had
resolved never to try again; and as many more
have gone to destruction for the want of a kind
word at the moment of temptation. Kind
words are like the sweetest flowers which shed
their fragrance round us and make us raise our
hearts in gratitude to our Maker.
	Harsh words are like the thorns and bram-
bles which surround the fairest and most
fragrant blossoms; they sink into the heart as
thorns do into the flesh, leaving a painful and
bleeding wound.
	A tiny spark may set fire to a house, the
flames spread and soon a whole village is de-
stroyed. A miser counts every penny, know-
ing that cents make dollars, and that each one
will help him to make that for which he is
aiming—a fortune; to him, each penny rep-
resents its true value, the one hundredth part
of a dollar. A tiny needle points the way far
across the trackless ocean, and enables the
mariner to keep a direct course. A step is a
trifle, yet step added to step, connects the At-
lantic with the Pacific. A shingle torn from
a roof is a small thing, if replaced at once no
harm will be done, if allowed to remain off,
the rain will come in and with it damage and
ruin.
	The value of a nail is small, but,

	"For the want of a nail the shoe was lost,
	For the want of a shoe the horse was lost,
	For the want of a horse the rider was lost;
	And all for the want of a horseshoe nail."

	A small spring swelled by slight additions,
forms the wonderful Nile. Our mighty Mis-
sippi has its source in an insignificant lake
many miles from its mouth.
	"As minutes make the hours, and hours
make the year, as drops make the rain and
rain makes the floods," so all small things lead
to great ones. From the little acorn springs
the lofty oak; from the tiny streamlet flows
the mighty rivers; from the scattered seed
sown in the early spring time, come the un-
counted millions of the harvest.
	Many of our greatest inventions owe their
existence to seemingly trivial events; and our
most wonderful discoveries can be traced to
occurrences so small that they have been over-
looked for centuries.

[Column 3]

	A boiling kettle suggested the use of steam
as a propelling force, and gave rise to that
iron monarch whose paths cross and recross
our continents. Without this invention we
should still suffer the numberless trials which
our forefathers underwent, when traveling was
carried on in old fashioned stage coaches.
From the date of the use of steam in naviga-
tion and locomotion, people began to travel
more and to learn more of distant countries.
Before this they looked upon traveling as a
trial, now they look upon it as a pleasure.
	A few rude types made of wood, formed the
beginning of the art of printing, by which we
are enabled to become familiar with the
thoughts of the greatest minds. These types
were improved until they attained the per-
fection of the modern printing-press. Still, all
the type in use to-day, and all the improvements
anticipated for the future, are, and will be,
the outcome of the rude invention of Carter.
	"Trifles make perfection, but perfection is
no trifle."
	The swinging of a lamp before an altar
gave to Galileo the idea of a pendulum and
the laws of oscillation. Without this dis-
covery, we should still be using the sun-dial.
	A thing as small and insignificant as an
apple, which chanced to fall to the ground
suggested to the mighty mind of Sir Isaac
Newton, the laws of gravitation and revealed
to him the mysteries of the starry vault of
the heavens. Over both these questions,
he had pondered long; and in succeeding
years, they would have puzzled other brains
as great, if the falling apple had not solved
the problem.
	Victor Hugo says; If it had not rained on
the night between the seventeenth aud eigh-
teenth of June, 1815, Napoleon would have
gained a decided victory over Wellington at
Waterloo and France would have held Eng-
land in her power. The rain made the ground
too soft to permit the manuvres of the artil-
lery on which Napoleon invariably depended.
Could the battle have begun early in the
morning, instead of at noon, the victory would
have been won by the French. The delay
gave the detachment of Prussians under
Blucher time to outmarch the French division
under Grouchy. The French lines, panic
stricken by Blucher's sudden appearance broke
and fled, leaving Wellington victor of the
field. The power of water as a mass is un-
questioned. In a moment, it sweeps thousands
of human beings into eternity. The power of
a few drops at Waterloo is more mysterious;
and yet, they changed the destiny of nations
and revolutionized all Europe.
	Graduating Essay.
		Sarah Adey.
June 29, 1889.


