WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

[Column 1]

had a friend in whom she reposed great con-
fidence, living in a town about thirty miles
away, the wife of a clergyman, who had no
daughter of her own, and whose superior edu-
cation and accomplishments would be a great
advantage to Hepsie in developing her un-
formed character, and so 'twas settled at home
with the family, and preparations were rapidly
made for the journey. Letters were inter-
changed between Mrs. H. and Mrs. G., and
the latter was given instructions in regard to
discipilining the mind and character of the
eccentric child whose guidance she was about
to undertake. The new dresses and other
wearing apparel awakened but little interest
in this unsophisticated child, but the thought
of leaving the dear old places, the familiar
scenes where she had spent her happy child-
hood almost overcame her and she wept bitter-
ly when she was reminded that she was going
among strangers. However, she was just
beginning to learn that life was not all made
up of fancies, and indeed the death of her
grandfather had worked a radical change in
the tenor of her thoughts. She was more
serious and contemplative and earth was not
quite so rosy-hued nor the future so unreal as
heretofore.
	One delightful May morning when the
lilacs were in bloom, and the fragrance of the
apple blossoms sweet upon the air, she dressed
herself with more than usual care, for this was
to be her advent out into the great world,
albeit only to an adjoining town, whither she
had never been. She tripped lightly down
the stairs though her heart was sad, and out
into the grove at the back to say adieu to the
trees and rocks, and brook for she had loved
them all with a childish simplicity. She
gathered a bunch of violets and pinning
them daintily on her black dress, she went in
to say good-bye to the brothers and sisters
weeping bitterly all the time. Her breakfast
was untasted, though the choicest morsels had
been prepared for her, and a nice lunch for
the journey. Gloomy forebodings were in her
mind at the thoughts of leaving her dear ones,
and going forth alone. She had never seen
Mrs. G., and the idea she formed of her was
not at all prepossessing. Finally the moment
came, the sound of the carriage wheels and
the lumbering old coach drove up, Hepsie
kissed them all good-bye and climbed into the
stage, her eyes full of tears and her throat
with sobs; the driver cracked his whip with a
great flourish, and the four fine horses darted
forward down the road. Looking out back of
the coach window, she saw her stately undemon-
strative mother going up the lilac walk slowly,
and wiping her eyes with her apron.
	Hepsie was rather glad her mother wept,
for she thought grown women never cried,
except when some one was dead. Her own
tears were falling fast, but childish grief is
not of long duration, and she soon forgot her
trouble in the excitement of the journey, the
lovely scenery through which they were pass-
ing and the strange faces around her.
	There were two or three other passengers
and one old lady in green spectacles, who asked
Hepsie inquisitively where her mother was;
then seeing the black crape on her dress she
said, "O your mother's dead, poor thing! and
 I s'pose your going to your rich relations."
"My mother isn't dead, and I’m going to
school, and I haven't any relatives except my
uncle and cousins in Boston, and they are too
proud to care for us! I hate my uncle any-
way, for he has locked up my grandpa's house,
and says he'll have it pulled down; and that's
the reason I'm sent away, because I cried so
much for grandpa and the old house."
	"Well, well to be sure what a chatterbox,"
and added the old lady, "you'll soon forget all
about it." "No, I sha'n't" said Hepsie, "he
was the grandest man you ever saw;" "I never

[Column 2]

saw him," said the lady. "Well, if you ever,
had seen him, you would think so, ane every-
body at the 'Old Furnace' thought so," "Well,
I never," said the green spectacled lady again;
"what are you talking about, the Old Fur
nace?" Was Major Hathaway your grand-
father, the man who owned the old factory at B?"
"Well, I do declare; no wonder you thought
him grand, why everybody in these parts
knew him; and as for his wife, though she
died long ago, when I was a little girl I almost
worshiped her. She was a rare beauty, but
what an ugly name she had, Hephzibah."
"That's my name," said the child quickly, "but
they call me Hepsie nowadays?" "Well?
well! I never did," the old lady repeated
again and again, under her breath. 'Why he
was very old, ninety-six or seven he must have
been."
	Hepsie had wakened early that morning and
she had become so exhausted with crying that
after answering many more of the lady's in-
terrogations she fell fast asleep in the coach
and forgot her great sorrow.
	It was late in the afternoon ere they reached
the place of destination, and the old lady in
the green spectacles had been put down at one
of the towns on the way. The stage driver had
been directed where to leave Hepsie, and ar-
riving at the parsonage just outside the centre
of the town of M., he stopped and lifted the
little girl out. Mrs. G. was in waiting, and
came out to meet her; the driver lifted down
the little hair trunk, that contained Hepsie's
wardrobe and carried it up the steps. She
had never been away from home alone before
and was so timid that she trembled with fright,
besides she had been forewarned that she
could not "put on airs" with Mrs. Grovesner.
The lady inquired kindly if she were tired,
and asked concerning her mother's health, and
then ushered her into a large, square, sitting-
room, so antique and curious in style, as to
cause her to compare it with grandpa's dining-
room in the old, old house, from which she
was now as she believed shut out forever.
Everything was bewilderingly strange. After
partaking some refreshment as it was not time
for "tea," Hepsie walked out into the garden,
and there again she was reminded of the farm.
The shrubbery was charming, and the apple-
blossoms, dainty perfume scented all the air;
the ground was covered with pretty pink and
white leaves, and the garden seemed like a
fairy bower.
	The house itself viewing it from the out-
side was quite as romantic as the one she
had loved so well, and Hepsie found her-
self wondering if the long dark passages
under the sloping sides of the gambrel-roof,
contained as many old papers as there was at
her grandfather's, and if so, whether Mrs.
Grovesner would let her rummage them over,
and sit and read all day in the garret as she
used to do sometimes in the past. When night
came the house seemed gloomy and Hepsie
wondered and was awed by the stillness, for at
home the children made merry music with
their chatter and laughter. The minister for
the husband of Mrs. Grovesner was the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner, looked very solemn and
spoke only to "Deborah," for so he designated
his wife, and Hepsie queried whether he loved
her, he spoke so coldly; for the child had heard
her grandpa talk a great deal about love, and
of his undying love for her grandmother; and
though she could not know exactly what love
meant, still it embodied her childish idea of
true happiness. Mrs. G. was occupied with
some plain needle work, and Hepsie scarcely
knew what to do with her hands; and was
very restless; besides she wanted to ask a lot
of questions, but she dare not for the silence
to her was something painful. Finally prayer
was offered in such a stately way, and not the
least impressive to the child, and Hepsie was

[Column 3]

informed it was time for her to retire. Mrs.
Grovesner showed her to a little low chamber,
a long way from the sitting room, and the
hall and stairways were so dark, that she
shivered with fear for she was in some respects
a coward; and the stories of ghosts and giants
were vivid in her mind. The woman took no
notice of the child, she had been requested to
discipline her, and considered this was the
proper course to take, and, it required firmness
and she was just the one to undertake such a
task.
	The little room was still as the grave,
and the bed looked as though no one had ever
slept in it, Mrs. G. put the candle down and,
said "good night," and in a moment Hopsie
fell to soliloquizing as usual, "I'm sure I can't
sleep, what a dismal place this is, how quiet
and gloomy. So this is the beginning of the
discipline mother said Mrs. G. would give me;"
and by this time she had burst into tears;
childish relief, and ofttimes a blessed relief to
older children too, when the heart is full to
overflowing. Poor Hepsie imagined herself
cruelly treated, and at once conceived the idea
of writing her life and making this the first
chapter. She repeated over and over the mul-
tiplication table and then all the verses she
knew, and while thus engaged fell fast asleep.
		[To be continued.]

