EDITORIAL NOTES.

	When in Brigham City attending the Conference
in June, Pres. Harriet A. Snow took the writer
out to see the Sisters' granary, and it was a very
great surprise to see how energetic the sisters had
been, in building, and saving grain. It seemed
such a model granary that we felt perhaps the
sisters would like to have a description of it given
to them in the Exponent. Mrs. Emilie D. Madsen
has furnished some particulars. The diminsions
of the granary are 43 1/2 feet long 21 1/2 feet wide
12 feet high built of bricks and covered with an
iron roof. It is divided into apartments so that
the grain can be moved from one to another. The
sisters have a considerably large quantity of
grain stored, and prospects of more and it is to be
hoped other settlements will take pattern from
them and build substantial granaries and fill them
with grain for it will surely be needed. 
	We have received a little book of 16 pages, paper
cover, by Elder John Sears, entitled, "Remember 
The Sabbath Day To Keep It Holy." It is writ-
ten on the subject mentioned and quotations
suitable to the matter are used from the Bible,
Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants.
Printed at the Juvenile Instructor Office, price
5cts. The keeping of the Sabbath Day holy is a
commandment somewhat disregarded at the pres-
ent day, and it is well for us all to refresh our
minds upon these things and sacredly observe
the commandments given by the inspired servants
of God that we may not be under condemnation.
It is a serious reflection upon a people professing
to be saints, when they disregard the Sabbath
and make it a day of pleasure instead of attend-
ing to their meetings and partaking of the sacra-
ment. It is to be hoped that this little book will
be circulated among the people and accomplish
the good, the author designed in publishing it.
We are very much pleased with the little work
and trust it may be a reminder to some dilatory
ones of their duties in this regard.


At the General Conference of the Relief Society
in Salt Lake City in April last, there was not
sufficient time for the Presidents of all the Stakes
to make verbal reports. Sister Young's Counsel-
ors had only been recently appointed and
would of course be expected to speak, and
make some recognition of their position,
and the written address from the Presi-
dent herself occupied a part of the time, and
the President called upon the Representatives
from a distance, as many as there was time to
hear from, Sister Willmirth East of St. Joseph
Stake was called for, but as she did not respond
it was concluded she was not present. It was
afterwards learned that she had come after time
and that she was to late to get in. The following
evening the officers of the Relief Society and
representatives from a distance met at the resi-
dence of Sister Young where other reports were
made and much instruction given, but it was not
considered necessary to publish it as it was per-
fectly understood by those present, that it was
for the Presidents benefit, suggestions and hints
to help them in their labors among the sisters.
It is a matter of regret that any one should feel
that a proper representation had not been made,
as it was the express wish and desire of the Pres-
ident that each one should have sufficient time
allotted them.


