WOMAN'S MASS MEETING IN SAN
PETE.

	According to previous call and appoint-
ment, a large number of the ladies of Manti,
assembled on the 20th of June, 1889, to or-
ganize themselves into a Suffrage Association.
Besides the ladies, a few influential citizens
were present who evinced a warm interest in
the proceedings, although they took no formal
part in them. Audience sang,

     "Guide Us, Oh, Though Great Jehovah."

Mrs. Rebecca Wareham offered prayer.
Audience sang, 

	"Earth With Her Ten Thousand Flowers,"

	Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City, stated
the object of the meeting to be the organiza-
tion of an association of women of all ages,
for purposes of improving ourselves in matters
literary, formal, social and political; especially
in that or all branches of politics, which
touch on woman's condition and interests in
general, and her state of disfranchisement in
particular.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young of Salt Lake was
chosen temporary chairman, and Mrs. Lucinda
L. Dalton of Manti, temporary secretary.
	The name of San Pete Co., Woman Suffrage
Association was adopted, and the following
named ladies nominated and sustained as 
officers of the permanent organization.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, of Manti, President;
Mrs. Esther S. Anderson of Manti, First
Vice-President; Mrs. Helen Armstrong of
Ephraim,Second Vice-President: Mrs. Tina M.
Erickson, of Mt. Pleasant, Third Vice Presi-
dent; Miss Mary Ann Frantzen, of Spring
City, Fourth Vice-President; Miss Clarrisa
Faux, of Moroni, Fifth Vice-President; Miss
Augusta Swalberg, of Gunnison, Sixth Vice-
President. Mrs. Sarah P. Vorhees, of Manti,
Secretary. Mrs. Lucinda L. Dalton of Manti,
Corresponding Secretary. Mrs. Margaret Kjar
of Manti, Treasurer.
	Executive Committee: Mrs. Catharine Brown
Chairman; Mrs. Belle Reed, Mrs. Margaret
Sloan, Mrs. Mary Luke, Mrs. Sarah P. Rey-
nolds.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells read the Constitution of
the National W. S. A., and it was moved
seconded and carried that the same be adopted
as the Constitution of the San Pete W. S. A.

[Column 2]

	Mrs. Wells read the By-Laws of the Utah
W. S. A., and it was moved, seconded and
carried that the same, with some slight changes
be adopted as the By-Laws of the San Pete
Co., W. S. A.
	It was also moved seconded and carried,
that the San Pete Co., W. S. A., be an auxili-
ary of the Utah W. S. A.
	Mrs. Wells expressed an earnest hope that
this cause will be well supported in San Pete
Co., and that all members and friends will
work together in harmony and order. Re-
counted some of the noble efforts which had
been made by the friends of woman in the
east to prevent the outrageous proceeding of
robbing the women of Utah of the Franchise,
after they had been in peaceable possession for
seventeen years. Opined that so long as men
shall retain their magnificent physicial organi-
zations and proportions, and women their ma-
ternal instincts, there need be no fear that
women will ever take away any of the rights
of men. Said we only need our own on fair
and equal terms. Was satisfied that no less
than ten thousand men in Utah believe in
Equal Suffrage.
	Chairman, Mrs. Young, said the women of
Utah could not be accused of any stain of
wrong-doing in their use of the ballot. They
held, used, and valued that right, for the
good they could do themselves, their sons and 
daughters, and humanity in general. We
hope to regain this inestimable right, and in
some degree help other women to gain it.
	The first regular quarterly meeting was
appointed for Friday, June 28, 1889.
	No further business being presented, a mo-
tion to adjourn was carried, the audience sang
Doxology, and closing prayer was offered by
Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Spring City.
		LUCINDA L. DALTON, Sec., protem.


The roses of pleasure seldom last long
enough to adorn the brow of him who plucks 
them, and they are the only roses which do not
return their sweetness after they have lost their
beauty.
	Francis Minor, of the St. Louis, Mo., bar,
has brought out a pamphlet arguing that
women have the right to vote for members of
Congress under the U. S. Constitution. It is
entitled “An Argument in Support of the
Law of Federal Suffrage.”
	The International Congress of Woman’s
Rights, held in France recently, reported the
name of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honorary
President for America, Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, of Indiana, was present as one of the
delegates from America. Mrs. Belva A.
Lockwood, of Washington was in attendance
and also attended the Peace Congress.


