GRANGER MEETINGS.

	The Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of
Granger held their annual meeting on the
twenty-sixth of June in our new unfinished
meeting house. There were a goodly number
of the members of both organizations present,
also our Bishop Daniel McRae and his Coun-
selors. Visiting sisters from the city were
Bathsheba Smith, Helen M. Whitney, Mary
P. Young, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Jane and
Lillie Freeze, Della Eardley and Maria Holt.
The morning session was devoted to the Relief
Society, Mrs. Mary E. Porter, presiding. After
usual exercises, minutes and reports, Sisters
Smith, Whitney, Young and Eardley, also our
Bishop occupied the time in speaking. Ad-
journed with singing and prayer.
	At the intermission a large table was set in
the hall and a feast of good things was par-
taken of, all enjoying themselves heartily.
Afternoon session was the young ladies' an-
nual, Agnes Mackay, presiding. After sing-
ing, prayer and minutes a short programme was
rendered consisting of essays, recitations,
reading and a song with guitar accompaniment.
The visiting sisters then addressed the meet-
ing and we had literally a spiritual feast. Our
associations are all in pretty good condition
considering the settlement is so scattered.
Our Primary is thriving, except that we have
not as many boys, where are they? That's the
question.
	Our Sabbath school is doing a good work
and on the 4th of July, there was an enter-
tainment for the Sunday school at the Ward
house at which time nearly two hundred
sacks of candy and nuts were distributed to
the children from the Superintendent and his
assistants. There was a programme in the
morning and at noon a sumptuous dinner for
all at the same place; afterwards the children
indulged in dancing, which however, was inter-


rupted by the arrival of the Taylorsville
brass band, which discoursed some stirring
music, and in the evening there was a dancing
party for the grown people, and all enjoyed
themselves exceedingly well, there was nothing
to mar the days' pleasure iu the least.
		M. A. G.


