WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.

	Writing in Harper's Bazar on "Women in
Journalism," Miss Grace W. Soper says:
One of the highest attractions in the pro-
fession to a thoughtful woman is its opportu-
nities for usefulness in putting the stamp of
print upon worthy objects. Even personal
journalism, which cannot wholly escape the
penalty of its trifling character, has a distinct
value in a discriminating use, and many in-
stances could be given of advantages gained
and prosperity due to the personal items of the
woman reporter.
	Almost every newspaper woman has a few
favorite schemes, which she likes to advance
at convenient occasions for the world’s good.
It is known that one makes an especial study
of cooking schools, and helps their introduction
into the public schools by a line now and then;
another has suggested the need of a national,
flower, and receives all communications on the
subject; another has been the first to write in
favor of manual training, and having received
much disapproval and contempt at first, has
written steadily through the first stages of dis-
favor to a time of general interest in the sub-
ject. Great opportunities for helpfulness are
a part of the common lot of women in journal-
ism, showing the golden side of the shield of
large acquaintance. A brilliant woman in
Central New York might point to a galaxy of
stars—social, artistic, and musical—which she
has fixed in the firmament of popular support.
A reporter in the East, engaged in the arduous
and not agreeable task of police reporting, has
been the means of rescuing many degraded
men and women from complete ruin. Many
women on newspapers conduct quiet little em-
ployment bureaus without fees, for the benefit
of the many who turn to them for advice and
help, and all have opportunities for giving
forth through word and deed more than they
may assimilate from books or experience.
It is, indeed, this constant drain upon the
mental and moral resources upon the sympathy
and upon the heart, as well as upon the mind,
that gives to Journalism for women its especial
cause for weariness and discouragement. The
use made of her many opportunities is the test
of the journalist's character, and as in no
other profession is character marked more
quickly in all its different shades, so in none
are there known to be so many and varied
types of development. "All sorts and condi-
tions" of women are shown through the mirror
of the public print. Their number is equalled
by their individuality, so that it is still impossi-
ble to take the typical picture which would
represent the whole in fair and unmistakable
lines. The woman reporter photographed by


Mr. Henry James may possess but one quality
in common with the book reviewer or the edi-
torial writer—the quality of devotion to her
work and conscientious faithfulness in doing
her duty at its best.
	Women in journalism are particularly sen-
sible of the pleasures inherent in a work which
is a means of influence to hundreds or
thousands of people; they are not less aware of
the various difficulties in its path, more or less
acute according to the social and professional
position and the character of the journalist.
The wife of a governor of one of the Eastern
States, meeting a young woman reporter, as
governers' wives and presidents' wives are apt
to do, said to her, with much kindness: "My
dea, I hear that you have just entered upon
journalism as a profession. May I whisper
one little piece of counsel in your ear? Do
not be easily downhearted, and try not to show
sensitiveness. Men object to women as co-
workers on account of their quickness to take
offence at trifles. Show your superiority over
the occasional disappointments of refused con-
tributions, and be of manly courage." The
necessity of giving plain statements of facts
is often a trial to the imaginative woman jour-
nalist, but no field of literature offers a better
means of training in accurate expression than
journalism.


