IN MEMORIAM.

	Eliza Jerusha Gibbs Fox wife of Elder Jesse
W. Fox, who died June 26, twenty minutes to
three p. m. at the family residence in the Four-
teenth Ward in this City, was born May 8, 1831,
at Benson, Rutland County, Vermont. She be-
longed to the famous Carter family who figured
so conspiciously in the early history of the
Church, being a sister of "Gideon Carter, who
was killed in the battle of Crooked river in the
Missouri persecutions;" and of John Carter who
was the first one to fall a victim to the cholera in
Zion's Camp, of which he was a member." Her
mother was a convert to the Mormon faith in a
very early day in Vermont, shortly after the
Church was organized in the State of New York
and removed with her family to Kirtland in 1834,
her little Eliza afterwards Mrs Fox being then
only three years old. Mrs. Gibbs was a widow
her husband having died a short time before Eliza
was born. Deceased was brought up in the
Church, participating with the Saints in their driv-
ings, wanderings and persecutions, having lived
in Kirtland, Ohio and partaken of the blessings
there vouch safed to the Saints when she was
only a child, also removed with the people to
Missouri and thus shared in the hardships and
in the drivings from there to Illinois, the City of
Nauvoo leaving there during the exodus from
that place with the body of the people.
	While  camped on the banks of the Missouri
River in 1849, Miss Eliza Gibbs was married to
Jesse W. Fox, and ever since that time they have
together shared prosperity or adversity according
to the circumstances of the Saints.
	Mrs. Fox was a genuine true-hearted wife,
mother and friend. Always ready to minister to
the needs and sufferings of others and exception-
ally devoted fo her own family. She possessed a
cheerful disposition and though she suffered great
pain and was greatly afflicted physically during
several years past, her courage and endurance
kept her from murmuring or repining and she al-
ways had a smile and a kind word for all.
	Mrs. Fox has been the mother of four children
one son and three daughters, two of her daughters
had gone before her to the spirit-land and there
was no doubt a joyful meeting when her spirit left
its mortal tabernacle. Her demise was unlooked
for at the time, though she had for years been
feeble, but her death was sweet and peaceful as
though falling into a quiet slumber. Her hus-
band and family however were greatly shocked
as they were fondly attached to her, and the blow
fell suddenly. The funeral was conducted at the


home at three o'clock p. m. June 28th and was
numerously attended. The greatest respect was
shown to the deceased and the family and the
speakers on the occasion made the most consol-
ing remarks to the living and in praise of the
good character and good works of the one just
departed. We deeply sympathise with the
bereaved husband and family although we feel
assured that their loss here is her everlasting gain.
She has been re-united with her dear ones who
had gone before and they rejoice in each other's
companionship.
	"They are not lost; they are within the door
		That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
	With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
		In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
	And God, Himself their Lord and Judge and
		King."


