THE LADY DOCTORS OF INDIA.
     “The Englishman’s Overland Mail" says:
In India lady doctors are now familiar to us,
and although at first  they may have been
somewhat ridiculed by those who could not
appreciate their value, they are fast making
their presence felt for good almost in every
corner of the land.  So far as the native
women of this country are concerned, it is
gratifying to note that their success in all
branches of college education is progressing to
the entire satisfaction of their professors.
Not only have they proved themselves to be
generally well fitted for the arduous duties at-
tendant on medical studies, but they have in
some cases succeeded beyond all ordinary ex-
pectation.  Bombay, Madras, the North West
Provinces, and the Punjaub all return flatter-
ing reports on the subject, and when we say
that a class of female students can average
over 700 marks out of 1,000 in a surgical ex-
amiantion, as we hear has recently been the
case, little can be said against their power, or
skill, or aptitude for gaining knowledge in one
of the most important branches of the medical
profession.  Indeed, it appears not unlikely
that women in India may prove themselves by
no means inferior to men in most branches of
the practice of medicine, if the progress made
by native females in hospital work may be
taken as a criterion.  In many cases they have
proved themselves superior to male students
in college examinations, and in no way behind
them in application, power of reasoning and
resource.  The fact that much of their success.
 is due to the great interest taken in their
studies by their lecturers and professors is not
without a certain special significance.


The golden moments in the stream of life
rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the
angels come to visit us, and we only know them
when they are gone.—George Eliot.
	Run not into debt, either for wares sold or
money borrowed; be content to want things
that are not of absolute necessity rather than
to run up the score.—Sir M. Hale.
	Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The
angel of life winds them up once for all, then
closes the case and gives the key into the hands
of the angel of the resurrection.


