SAN JUAN.

	Report of the Quarterly Conference, of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of San Juan Stake held at
Bluff, Utah May 28th 1889, Prest. M. M.
Halls presiding, Present on the stand Prest.
M. M. Halls and Coun. Mary Jones of the
Stake Presidency. Pres. Margaret Adams
and Couns. Jennie Allen and Mary Stevens
of the Bluff, ward also Prest. F. A. Hammond
and Counselors. William Hails and William
Adams. After the usual opening exercises,
the minutes of the last Conference were read
and approved, Pres. M. M. Halls, then arose
and said, she esteemed it a great privilege to
be permitted to meet with her sisters again in
conference gave some very interesting advice
to the young folks, prayed that the spirit of
God might rest upon those who should speak
during the conference.
	Coun. Mary Jones felt like responding to
every call, desired to say what the spirit might
direct, and exhorted us to be faithful and
prayerful at all times.
	Pres. Margaret Adams, reported the Bluff
ward association as doing well. Their meet-
ings during the winter had been very interest-
ing. Sister Mamie Burnham of Burnham
ward, said they held their meetings conjointly
with the young men, and were in a prosperous
condition.
	Sister Martha Hammond reported the as-
sociation of Moab ward as doing well.
	Prest. Moiselle Halls said the Mancos ward
association was in a flourishing condition.
The members all take an active part in help-
ing to make the meetings interesting. A very
interesting programme was then rendered by
members of the several associations of the
stake, after which the general and local officers
of the Y. L. M. I. A. were presented and
sustained.
	Prest Halls, said she felt pleased with the
programme that had been rendered counseled
us to respect those who are placed over us in
authority, also to be diligent in attending to
our prayers, and exhorted us to keep the Word
of Wisdom so we could claim the blessings
thereto. Prest. Hammond had been well paid
in attending our conference, gave some very
good counsel to the young, encouraged essay
writing, spoke on home industry. Conference
then adjourned, Choir sang. Israel awake,
Benediction by Bishop Neilson. Louie M.
White Sec. Mary Hammond asst. Sec.

