WHY OFFENDED.

	It seems astonishing sometimes to learn that
every Church in Christendom is offended with us:
Yes offended with the faith which we believe
should be ours and not only ours, but that of
every human being, since God is our Father.
Yet I think I can understand why it is. We are
as a family or a people strongly attached to our
friends; and especially those who are good or
Godlike beings made in His image and possessing
his attributes, we readily love that which we think
is worthy of our affections, and feel to resent an
injury to those persons as much as we would
for ourselves.
	Is not self love, and self conceit, a part of the
ingredients that our characters are composed of?
And when we measure ourselves by sound prin-
ciples and sound doctrine which Jesus gave to
the whole human family we then loose our grasp
upon self conceit and look upon the subject as we
ought to do. I well remember how disgusted
I was with the name of Mormons. And I being
told of a person who said the Lord was not
pleased with the various churches of the Sectar-
ian world and he did not acknowledge them
as His.
	I quietly asked who said it, or made this asser-
tion. Upon being told that it was a young man
in his teens, about 15 years of age: I replied,
does he think that he knows more about this than
our aged Minister Mr. Burgess who baptised me,
and who has been searching the scriptures all his
life and preaching from them for years?  I think
this young man was very cheeky and an impudent
fellow. I do not want to see him or hear him
speak. These were some of my feelings. Ac-
cordingly I judge others feelings by my own. I
believe there are many people who have a sincere
devotion to God, and yet look upon us with dis-
gust and pity us, believing we are deluded.
	Now the question arises how and when did
you change your mind. It was some time before
I would listen to my friends who were going to
hear a Mormon preach just opposite to us, in the
Court house. I was at the time spending a little
time with a friend of mine in the City of Utica
N. Y. Mrs. Monroe. A brother of hers told her
of this people and wished her to go and hear them
if they came that way. Accordingly she did so,
but I would not go. I was tired of excitement
and had joined the Episcopal Church because it


[Column 1]

was free from excitement of any kind. Besides
I told her we had no need of his golden bible.
We had the Savior's teachings, did we want any
more than this to qualify us to come into His
presence.
	She told me he (Mr. Blakesley) preached from
the old bible, I would not object to hear it. Well
said I, can he do that better than Mr. Proll our
minister here in Utica. Finally I was persuaded
to go and hear for myself, remembering King
Solomons words. "He who judges a motto with-
out hearing it is a fool."
	He was showing that a new era or dispensation
was beginning to open upon the world and we
were required to be very particular in observing
our Lord and Savior's teaching while here, before
He suffered death upon the cross. I could find
no fault with this: as we all believed this. But
did we realy delieve it? Did we believe those
words of Jesus, the gifts and graces which
characterized the church should be to you, and
your children afar off, even as many as the Lord
our God shall call. Oh no! We believe they
were given to establish the church and then taken
away because they were no longer needed. But
does the bible say this?
	No: It says they were given for the perfecting
of the Saints, the work of the ministry, the edify-
ing of the church until all came in the unity of
the faith. He also showed that after the death of
our Savior and also all His apostles excepting
the apostle John, a vision was given him in which
he saw another angel with the everlasting gospel
to deliver to those who dwell upon the earth.
	We also learn from this strange people that
many ancient prophecies are already fulfilled and
the remainder will be before the second coming
of Jesus to earth. We read from our old bible
the words of one of the ancient sayings. "The
Lord will do nothing but He will reveal his
secret to His servants the prophets. How was it
when Elijah was caught up to heaven without
tasting death. You remember that he told Elisha
to tarry here for the Lord has sent me to Jericho.
But Elisha said as the Lord liveth, and as thy
soul liveth I will not leave thee. So they went to
Jericho. And the sons of the prophets that were
at Jericho came forth to Elisha and said knowest
thou that the Lord will take away thy master from
thy hand to day. And he said yea I know it, hold
ye your peace, this was done again at Bethel.
But Elisha would not tarry but went with him.
And again the sons of the prophets asked if he
knew that the Lord would take away his master
from his hand. His reply was the same, saying
hold your peace. 2nd Kings 2nd chap.
	Here we see this great event was known to the
prophets: and not only this but many others.
After hearing these sermons and some others the
Bible seemed to me like a new book, and more in-
teresting than any other I had read. I soon be-
came thoroughly convinced that our Savior's
commands were the only ones for us to revere:
and He only gave two; The first was to love the
Lord with all your might mind and strength, and
surely the Ancient prophets did this, to obtain
the great rewards of knowledge of God's works
among the children of men on the earth. They
must become fit temples for the indwelling of
His holy spirit that they may know Him as He is,
and learn of His ways.
	I soon became anxious to visit our Episcopal
minister Rev. Mr. Proll of Utica. I was quite
sure he would be delighted to investigate these
principles, accordingly I went in company with
Miss Ruth Reese. He met us kindly and invited
us to take a chair, saying, so you are going to run
away and leave us, no not run away, I replied. I
came to see you first. Well said he you must re-
member. "Whether there be prophecies they
must fail and tongues shall cease;" but he did not
add the next sentence in the same verse. I added
it for him. "And knowledge will vanish away."

[Column 2]

I said I thought it had, for I supposed I belonged
to the Apostolic Church but it did not have the
gifts and graces which characterized that Church.
	He then said, "whoever shall add to the words
or prophecy of this book to him shall be added
the plagues." Yes I know this to be St. Johns
vision. The bible was not compiled at that time:
This vision was a separate book, and he, whoever
said he saw any more or less, to him should be
added the plagues: but he was told he should
prophecy before many nations kindred tongues
and people. Well said he you are young and will
see the error of your ways and come back. I
must excuse him as he was expected to visit a sick
person. He had no time to investigate. I saw
plainly he could not be persuaded to look at the
subject, yet felt to pray he might at some future
time, if he did not fear to lose his salary. I was
not willing to throw away so much of the bible as
he did. Accordingly I still clung to this gospel
hoping to gain more light and intelligence from
the fountain of light, and be a fit temple for the
indwelling of God's holy Spirit. And it will surely
be given to the earnest seeker.
