CHAPEL OF HENRY VII.

	This chapel is a great feature in the abbey.
It is the lavish monument of a parsimonious
king. The fact of its construction has some-
thing of the appearance that it was intended to
convey to posterity a different impression of
his character from what it really was. The
building in its day was a fine piece of work,
with its fretted roof and quaint carvings, and
a sufficient amount of the effect of the archi-
tecture remains to give us an impression of its
magnificence. An important feature of the
chapel is that nearly all of England's sover-
eigns from Henry VII to George II were bur-
ied there. When about to survey the chapel
one looks from the portico and sees every
phase of Gothic architecture, from the time
of Henry III to that of Henry VIII.
	We next advance toward the entrance and
come to the great, brass door, with fleur de lis
represented upon it. As we enter the chapel
we see to the left the carved stalls and above
the quaint wooden carvings, representing
monks ridiculing their brethren; also the long
rows of flags suspended from the roof, show-
ing the orders of the bath. Nearly in the
centre stands the large tomb of Henry and his
Queen, Elizabeth of York. This superb piece
of workmanship was made by Pietro Torri-
gierno, and cost the modest sum of 1,500
pounds. The tomb is of  black marble, with
figures of gilded copper. Upon the altar in-
side there is a leg of Saint George and a piece

[Column 2]

of the cross. Besides the king and queen,
James I was buried in the vault. Near the
tomb rest the remains of the young Edward
VI. To the right of the entrance is the grave
of the Duke of Cumberland, the hero of Cul-
loden. We saw, with reverential feeling, in
the centre of the eastern chapel the graves of
the good Dean and Lady Stanley.
	Olicer Cromwell and family were buried
near, but at the restoration they were all re-
moved, with the exception of a daughter who
married a Royalist. From thence was hurled
the dead body of the great protector, and
taken, with those of Bradshaw and Ireton, to
Tyburn, and there ignominiously hanged in
chains, while the wicked Charles II was reign-
ing in his stead. But time is righting and
will right all that. "Time, the test of truth,
love, sole philosopher, which never loses
though it doth defer."
	It is a curious fact, worth noting, that in
this vault, as if in scornful mockery, were
buried the Duke of Ormund and illegitimate
children of Charles II; and, in favorable con-
tact to these, the heroic veteran General
Schonberg. To the right of the main chapel
we enter the south aisle, which contains the
monument of Mary Queen of Scots, whose
body was removed from Peterborough cathed-
ral by order of her son James I. The tomb
is a splendid monument. The alabaster effigy
of the unfortunate queen upon it looks very
handsome indeed. There in majestic repose
she lies, with the familiar cap, or bonnet, upon
her head. At the end of the aisle, with suit-
able slabs and inscriptions, are William and
Mary, Charles II, and Prince Rupert.
	Just opposite this place is the north aisle,
which contains the tombs of Queen Elizabeth
and her sister, Bloody Mary. The monument
to Elizabeth, designed by Paultraine and Critz,
is very fine indeed. The effigy represents the
queen as advanced in life, but majestic even in
old age. It is fitting that England's greatest
queen should be thus commemorated. Never
was the country greater or happier than dur-
ing her reign. But we are all aware of the
fact that she had extreme weaknesses as well as
virtues. She was "one day greater than a 
man, and the next less than a woman." Mary
is buried in the same tomb as her sister. Her
funeral was the last Roman Catholic service
held in the abbey, with the exception of one
ordered by Elizabeth to commemorate the
death of Charles V. In those two services the
long war of the English reformation was 
brought to a close. The eastern end of the
aisle is called "innocent's corner," because the
princeses, murdered in the tower, by order of 
Richard III, were brought hither by the direc-
tions of Charles II. Near the entrance to the
aisle, beneath the monument to his patron,
Lord Halifax, lies Addison. His monument,
as we remember, is in the poet's corner.
	What a cycle of history is contained in
Henry VII's chapel alone! There are the
memorials of the thrifty and enterprising
Henry, the short-lived but useful Edward, the
powerful and cruel Mary, the grand Elizabeth,
the unfortunate Mary of Scots, the noble
Cromwell, the dissolute Charles, the bigoted
James, and the noble William.

