[Vol1 | May 1914 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Peace]
We may be unconscious of the source of the constant misery which gnaws at our vitals, but a spirit of disturbance or rebellion against constituted authority in this Church, whether in the home, or in the broader fields of Church activity, will poison the very springs of our peace.
But when we have conquered our stubborn pride, or shall have bowed in submission to the proper authority, then comes peace, heavenly peace.
It is amusing, if not distracting, to listen to foolish people who see things only from surface indications, talking about the glories of peace.
Such people would set aside the discipline of the home, the state, and the nation.
They would have us believe that peace is only gained when the child, the youth, the man, or the nation pursues the foolish path of personal and national self-will.
It is impossible for each child, or for each individual, to have his own way completely, and not thereby interfere with the rights and privileges of others.
There must be a constant submission of one will to another, in order to have peace in a household, in a state, or in a nation.
To give and to take is the universal law.
Especially is this true in religious matters.
He who spake as no man ever spake has told us that He came not to bring peace, but a sword; and He gave the one and only law by which we may achieve in the fullest degree that peace which we so ardently crave.
Love thy neighbor as thyself, was his perfect counsel.
In other words, seek the welfare of others, in preference to your own, or at least, with equal ardor and justice.
Yet, in that consummation comes the point of the sword into our own hearts and into every discussion and problem, both in the home and in the nation.
Discipline must necessarily precede peace.
Do not forget that, you mothers, and grandmothers, if you would have peace in your homes, in your society, and in your community.
Discipline your children and yourselves, before asking for the priceless boon of perfect peace.
