[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: In Memoriam | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

			IN MEMORIAM.
	NANNY LONGSTROTH RICHARDS.
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”
	One more of the dearly beloved women
of Zion, and a historic figure in the Church,
Sister Nanny Richards, passed away
January 7, 1911, after a brief illness. A
notice of her death and funeral services was
published in the daily papers, and a picture

[Column 2]
of her was given with the obituary. Not-
withstanding the publication which will give
her demise a much wider circulation in the
community than the Woman’s Exponent, we
feel it a solemn duty to record the deaths
of noble women in the Church, and espe-
cially those who lived in the early days and
passed through privation and hardships, and
endured much for the sake of the Gospel.
We are well aware of her modesty and re-
tiring disposition, and yet she had that great
strength of character, that enabled her to en-
dure without a murmur all exigencies
through which the Saints had to pass in
leaving their homes at the time of the exo-
dus, and entering upon a journey into an
unknown country, going they knew not
whither.
	Sister Nanny was at that time the wife of
Dr. Willard Richards, one of the Twelve
Apostles, and soon after Counselor in the
First Presidency. She was married to Dr.
Richards in the Nauvoo Temple, Jan. 25,
1846, and the children born of that mar-
riage were Alice Ann, Mary Asenath and
Stephen Longstroth, Richards.
	Dr. Willard Richards died March 11,
1854, and three years after his wife Nanny
was married to Apostle Franklin D. Rich-
ards, by whom she had three children,
Minerva, George Franklin and Frederick
William. Mrs. Richards also had charge
of her deceased Sister Sarah’s three chil-
dren, making a family of nine in all.
	Mrs. Richards was what might in the
best sense of the word be termed a home-
maker; her home was her heaven, and was
a most desirable place to dwell in. Her
faith in the Gospel was most sincere, and
her integrity to its principles was unques-
tionable. She has fought the good fight and
kept the faith, and leaves a pure and un-
sullied name to her posterity, and all the
daughters of Zion might be proud to fol-
low her glorious example.
	Sister Richards was born at Arncliff,
Yorkshire, England, April 15, 1828. Her
parents were Stephen and Ann Gill Long-
stroth; she was baptized in March, 1839,
making her a number of the Church almost
72 years. Her parents sailed from Liver-
polo, Feb. 5, 1842, landing in New Orleans
a week overdue, and took passage up the
Mississippi river to St. Louis, where the
family remained two years and then moved
to Nauvoo, Ill.
	Brother and Sister Longstroth came to
the valley with the younger children in Dr.
Richards’ company, in 1848, the same com-
pany in which the other members of the
family, who were married, came also.
	They were people of means, thrifty and
industrious, and like Mrs. Richards, strong-
ly attached to home life, and true and faith-
ful to the Gospel they had embraced in
their native land.
	There can be no doubt that Sister Nanny
Richards has obtained the rest that remains
for those who are true and faithful, and
has entered,
“Into the grand and templed city seen by
	John in vision bright,
Glory flooded, needing neither sun by day
	nor moon by night.”


The suffragists of Berlin are giving “po-
litical teas,” which are attended by mem-
bers of the Reichstag and prominent pol-
ticians, many of whom are said to have
become converts to the cause.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


