[Column 1]
was one of those peculiar types of women
so difficult to describe that we term them
“a perfect study”; small in figure, dark, al-
most olive complexion, purplish or blue
hair, large grey eyes. Many people
considered her plain, but she was at-
tractive, and possessed that indescri-
bable charm, which for want of a
better term we call magnetic. This eve-
ning she wore a grey dress, of some soft
material, trimmed with scarlet velvet; and
bending over her letters she looked as much
a picture, as the young girl who sat op-
posite. Alice chanced to notice it and as-
tonished her by saying; “Aunt Esther, you
look so charming tonight, your very soul
seems to be looking forth out of your eyes.
I wish you had a sweetheart, it’s such a
lonely life to live; how long since Uncle
Herbert died?”
	“Ten years and over,” replied the little
woman, without lifting her eyes. Sometimes
her voice sounded strangely to Alice, and
as she looked she saw tears fall upon the
letter her aunt had been reading, but seemed
to have dropped from her hand. Alice
knew her aunt was undemonstrative, and
she would not inquire what made her sad,
but thought it was her ill-timed allusion to
her uncle’s death. Little she knew the chord
she had touched, that made such discord
in the heart of this staid and demure little
woman.
	The letters were finished and both ladies
drew nearer to the fire and resumed con-
versation, as all do who love each other, just
before separation for the night.
	“Alice, my dear, was your unknown let-
ter from some rich uncle—an invitation for
the holidays?”
	“No aunt, it was from old Mr. Brown,
whom we met at the seaside last summer,
and funniest of all (for you remember I
snubbed him) it contained an offer of mar-
riage, the first one I ever had. Audacious
fellow, he tells me he loves me, and that he
is worth half a million, all in one paragraph.
I wouldn’t marry him if he were worth
three millions; he’s a scoundrel, been in
society thirty years or more, and divorced
his wife. Marry old Brown? I’d rather be
an old maid and stay with you all my days,
auntie. You’ll never marry again, I don’t
suppose, though you’re much more fascinat-
ing than most young girls, and know a great
deal more. Is that the reason they call
widows dangerous, I wonder? I’ve often
heard the expression. I couldn’t imagine
why it was used, for you are the only young
widow I have ever really been acquainted
with, and I’m sure you are the most in-
offensive and reserved, and the very best
little auntie in all the world.” As she fin-
shed her remark she rose and threw her
arms around Aunt Esther’s neck, and de-
luged her with kisses.
	When Polly came in to inquire what or-
ders her mistress had to give, before retir-
ing, Mrs. Danforth replied, “Nothing, to-
night, but we are going away in a day or
two, so all our plans will be changed and
we can dispense with some of the help for
the present. Polly, would you like to go
anywhere on a visit?”
	“No, Mrs. Danforth, I will stay and take
care of the house while you’re absent, and
Ben, of course you’ll retain him for outside
work. We two can do very well, and it will
save some expense.”
	“All right, Polly, it’s very kind of you to

