[Column 1]
pathy and understanding. Sympathy is the
class teacher’s key and she feels with Elbert
Hubbard that, “No person is great who
does not possess sympathy.” Your heart
must go out to all men, the high, the low,
the rich, the poor, the learned, the unlearned,
the good, the bad, the wise, the foolish. It
is necessary to be one with them all, else you
can never understand them.
	The introduction of class work into the
Relief Society came as a boon to us all; it is
a means of education and uplift that all
may grasp and thus enlarge our horizon,
expand our sphere of usefulness and make
of ourselves what our Heavenly Father ex-
pects at our hands.
	The value of the different courses of
study is so broad that they reach every part
of us. Hygiene for middle age not only
helps those of that age to pass successfully
through that period but prepares the young
mothers for its approach by teaching them to
live now for what is before them.
	The “Young Mother’s Work” teaches
them to better understand their children and
how to direct their efforts for good, how to
play with them, and the value of play, with
the result that they keep closer to their chil-
dren; they bring themselves back to child-
hood and see things through children’s eyes,
understand with their understanding and
enjoy with a child’s enjoyment, thus their 
companionship is complete, exemplifying the
thought, “and a little child shall lead them.”
Together they watch for the manifestations
of God.
	“In the sun, the moon, the sky,
	In the mountains wide and high,
	In the thunder, in the rain,
	In the winds, the woods, the plain,
	In the little birds that sing,
	God is seen in everything.”
	A study of current events broadens us by
showing a view of the world and its pro-
gress, a knowledge of its important events
and that the turmoil that at present exists
is in fulfilment of prophecies by our own
Prophet Joseph Smith. This is all an added
testimony to us of the divinity of his mis-
sion.
	Biographies of the noble women of our
Church and of the world are an inspiration
to us. “Sewing Topics” gives us valuable
thoughts for discussion in our sewing meet-
ings, thus eliminating gossip and light-
mindedness. The Theological gives us a
more definite understanding of the princi-
ples of the Gospel, making us broader mind-
ed and better, able to defend the faith than
ever before. By coming in contact with
other faiths we intensify our own by com-
parison. The Genealogical work is of tre-
mendous import. To us above all people
on the earth, it is important. It is necessary
for us to keep in touch with the great world
movement in this line of work. It has three
distinct phases, the social, the scientific and
the spiritual. Many people spend much time
and money tracing their pedigree to estab-
lish their relationship to noted personages
or nobility, etc., to gratify pride or to be-
come eligible to societies such as the “Sons
and Daughters of the Revolution,” “Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers,” etc. This is the social
side. The scientific phase brings into gene-
alogy the science of eugenics or heredity,
which when studied and applied will tend
to improve the race physically and mentally

