[Column 1]
stake; spoke on the outlines and the high
work they hoped to accomplish; said they
“desired to have weekly meetings held gen-
erally; spoke on and explained a summary
report they would expect at the October
conference on the work we were doing in
the stake; advised the sisters in looking after
their children and on promoting faith in
them; said We are a favored people. May
the Lord bless you all.
	President Sarah Stohl hoped all would
stay and participate in the social noon hour;
felt we had been inspired in our work in
holding our weekly meetings and in our
getting out report blanks; felt the Lord
would bless us with His spirit today; that
we would have a good social time together.
	Singing, “Sowing, daily sowing.”
	Prayer by Brother Oluf Jensen.
	2 p. m.—After opening exercises min-
utes of previous afternoon conference read
and approved.
	President Sarah Stohl was pleased with
the good attendance this afternoon; said we
would hear from some of the sisters, and
have a report for one month read.
	Sister Rose M. Wheatly gave a report of
Honeyville association.
	Sister Julia A. Richards read a report of
the work done in the stake for one month.
Kindergarten work was taken up. In-
troductory remarks were made by Sister
Lula B. Call, stake chairman of kindergar-
ten work; was thankful for this work as it
opened up an avenue for our minds and
thoughts to work upon; spoke on the lec-
tures and games, and the way the lessons
were to be handled in the associations.
	Sister Emeline P. Watkins combined the
two lessons, The Child as an Imitator, and
Social Development, and also gave briefly
a sketch of the Montessori Mother, and the
work in her school.
	Supplementary Kindergarten work by
Sister Emma Vance; treated in general the
work of the outlines as given in our weekly
meetings.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells said one would
seem certainly uplifted in what we had
heard this afternoon; spoke in regard to
nurses and their high price; said they were
going to have Relief Society nurse classes
again; spoke on genealogy work, and organ-
zing of classes; also on obedience; related
ncidents of her own conversion to the
Church, and her acquaintance with the
Prophet, and her feelings when in his pres-
ence; gave many of the qualifications he
possessed; bore a strong testimony to the
truth of this Gospel.
	Brother W. C. Horsley said we must
work more unitedly together to make a bet-
ter community; spoke on company that
some of our young girls keep; read a short
piece on unity.
	President Oleen N. Stohl said there has
been a sweet influence here all day; had been
nterested in the singing; said we were born
spirits of our heavenly parents and we had
to go through experiences to become per-
fect; spoke on the power of the evil one, and
how he works to try to overpower; said the
struggle was on, and it was with us to try
to do our part and it was worthy of our best
efforts to press on. May the Lord bless us
all in this great work.
	President Sarah Stohl said she would like
to tell the sisters that Sister Wells’ age was
85 years, and her dress was home made silk;

