[Column 2]
ter M. Maddock of the Y. L. M. I. A. stake
Board, eleven members of the R. S. stake
Board, and president or representative from
each of the local associations.
	After the opening exercises Second Coun-
selor L. Letitia Richards welcomed all pres-
ent.
	Reports from the local associations fol-
lowed, a special feature of which was with
reference to attendance of officers and work-
ers at sacrament meetings, preparation meet-
ings and prayer meetings and the effects of
the same on the Relief Society. The results as
reported were that the sacrament meetings
are being better attended by our officers than
formerly, which means a larger spiritual
growth; the preparation meeting is aiding
them in better preparation of lessons and
conducting of meetings and general detail,
while the prayer meeting, preceding the gen-
eral meeting, fits and qualifies each attend-
ant for the work in hand. The sick and
poor were being cared for and the work in
general progressing.
	A most excellent paper on “The Value of
Our Class Work,” was given by Sister
Vincy R. Barker, after which Secretary Nel-
lie Becraft briefly reported the work done
by the R. S. stake Board during the past
three months; weekly visits are made to
the local associations and help given them in
every way possible, besides a large num-
ber of visits to the sick are made.
	Sister Farnsworth of the General Board,
was delighted with the spirit of the confer-
ence, the singing, the reports and every-
thing done and felt that benefit would result
from the same.
	Sister Horne of the General Board felt it
to be a privilege to be present; had looked
over our “outlines” and was convinced more
deeply than before, of the practicability of
each stake planning its own work.
	After singing, the benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor Larkin of the High
Council, and during the noon period a
luncheon was served and a social time was
spent.
	The afternoon session was a Memorial
Service in memory of Weber stake first Re-
lief Society President, Sister Jane S. Rich-
arde.
	In addition to those on the stand at the
morning session there were present Charles
C. Richards of the stake Presidency
and Elder William S. Wright of the 
stake Presidency of the Y. M. M. I. A., who
with Sister Maddock of the Y. L. M. I. A. 
added to the enjoyment of the conference by
their sweet singing.
	After the opening exercises a Life Sketch
of Sister Richards was given by Sister Nel-
lie Becraft.
	Sister Farnsworth of the General Board
paid a beautiful tribute to the memory of
Sister Richards, whom she had known and
loved and always looked upon as one of the
foremost women in the church; thought
this day should continue to be fittingly ob-

[Column 3]
served as it meant so much to the sisters and
to the community where Sister Richards had
accomplished so great a work.
	Sister Horne of the General Board con-
sidered it a great privilege to have known
Apostle and Sister Richards; they were
both the embodiment of all that was good
and noble. Sister Richards was a woman
of great wisdom and of the broadest char-
ity; it has been well said that she was a 
statesman and her executive ability of a very
high order; her home life was most beauti-
ful and she was certainly worthy of being
the first Relief Society stake President.
	President Richards has heard so many
good things said of his parents that his
heart was deeply touched; he was glad of
the work they had done, the record they
had made and the treasures they had laid
up where neither moth nor rust could cor-
rupt nor thieves break through and steal.
	Counselor Foulger said our minds have
been carried back to the days of our child-
hood, when Sister Richards gathered in all
the young girls, teaching us valuable les-
sons in her motherly way, until we were fin-
ally organized into the Y. L. M. I. A. Hers
was a beautiful life service,  nothing was
ever allowed to interfere with duty.
	We feel that our conference was a most
enjoyable one and one to be remembered
and cherished.


