[Column 2]
by teaching the value of proper mating. An
article by Stoddard Goodhue, in the July
“Cosmopolitan magazine” teaches that every
man and woman should know the ancestry
of the contemplated marriage partner, and
knowing it, have the courage, if there is
any taint, to put aside present happiness for
the good of the race. The editor’s note on
this article says—“Have I the right to get
married? if already married, have I the
right to have children? If I have children
will they be healthy in mind and body or will
they be feeble-minded or consumptive, or
epileptic, or so sickly and defective that they
will be a burden to themselves and to their
parents?” The time is coming when every
intelligent man and woman must ask him-
self or herself such questions as those—di-
rect personal, practical questions. The new
knowledge of heredity makes it imperative
to do so. The long controversy about the
relative influence of heredity and environ-
ment has been settled for all time. We
know now that the possibilities of any in-
dividual are determined before birth; if you
are to select a marriage partner wisely and
gie your prospective children half a chance
in life, you must be familiar with at least
the essentials of this new knowledge. Last
and best is the spiritual phase, which in-
volves the keeping of genealogy for further-
ing the work of salvation of the living and
the dead, and the binding together of fami-
lies for time and all eternity. I might have
added another phase, the technical—or the
art of collecting and recording data. This
part of the work was given in our gene-
alogical class, taught by Sister Annie Lynch
of the Woman’s Committee of the genealog-
cal association and as a result of the prec-
ous seed sown by her we have aimed to
put theory into practice. Knowing that the
records in the majority of the homes of the
Saints are in a deplorable condition, no
thought being given to the recording of
passing events, we have prepared a form,
containing the direct ancestry of husband
and wife back to the second great grand par-
ents, the children of the couple, and whom
they married, and the work the sister is now
performing in the Church as also a place
for all she has heretofore done. Practice
may never strictly conform to theory but
we believe that great good will result from
the work thus begun.
	One cannot fill out our form without feel-
ing the force of our two mottos, “Record
data today, tomorrow it may be beyond your
reach,” and, “We who forget the past have
no claim to be remembered by the future.”
There never will come a time when the
chances are better than today for the pre-
serving of necessary data. Every day the
aged are passing away and with them valu-
able information which we may sorely need
but be unable to secure, and therefore we
are working to secure actual, authentic data
and have it properly recorded and placed on
file in our societies for future use. The
great amount of work that thisrequires
makes us feel that, “The man is greatest
who best serves his kind.”
	Sympathy and knowledge are for use—
you acquire that you may give out you ac-
cumulate that you may bestow. And as
God has given you the sublime blessings of
sympathy, and wisdom, there will come to
you the wish to reveal your gratitude by
giving them out again; for the wise man is
aware that we receive only as we give. Let

[Column 3]
your light shine; “To him that hath shall be
given.”
	We get inspiration only as we fit ourselves
to receive it. Let us get that we may give,
knowing that our work leads us to wisdom,
sympathy, education and the glory of God.


