[Column 1]
meeting on May 23rd, (public and splen-
did), over which I presided. It made a great
impression and received the most favorable
press notices. How much Mrs. Harper
may have said about it in her syndicate let-
ters, I do not know.
	From The Hague I went to Paris and
attended the best organized International
Congress I have ever witnessed, entirely
under the leadership of the French council.
	Thence I came on June 10th to Vienna for
a Suffrage Congress of three days, and
thence on June 14th to Budapest. Of all
the marvels of this summer’s meetings the
press at home will surely have told you. I
left Budapest on June 23rd, and with the
exception of two visits in Hungary, both at
the castle of Count Apponyi, I have been in
Vienna. Although I have had much social
enjoyment in the interstices of work, I have
been here for work—as a result four big
review articles and one three column syn-
dicate letter have gone back to our country,
some or all of which will, I hope, fall under
your vision.
	And now to our own council. Its trien-
nial will be held in Port Huron between Oct.
15 and Nov. 15. It is indeed important that
your societies, both of them, be finely and
fully represented there by all the delegates
and the alternates to which you are entitled.
assure you, my friend, our great “Council
Idea” which means the nationalization of the
womanhood of our own country, and the
internationalization of the women of the
world, has faced and does face its as-
sassins in those who should be its loyal de-
fenders and preservers.
	Port Huron is our last opportunity to re-
vive our council, lift it to its feet and start
it again on that splendid race which it ran
with courage and wisdom from 1888 to
1898, continued honestly but feebly until
1904, and with blows from without and
from within, still retains a vitality that I am
sure can be revived. I know Mrs. Miller is a
loyal council woman. I believe she would
be a good standard bearer. I know she is
courageous and I believe her to be perfectly
honest. I think very highly also of Dr.
Bower, and of course there are other splen-
did women, but they must be brought to-
gether for honest, sincere conference. Every
society must be present and present with its
best in full quota, and among the nine dele-
gates and the nine alternates to which we
are entitled in Rome next May, every sec-
tion of the country should be represented—
yours as well as every other. For the re-
vival and restoration of the Council Idea;
for its ideal of national service; for its uni-
fication of social effort; for its focusing of
scattered forces; for all these shall I, God
willing, stand and work at Port Huron—
and to work there, we must work before
going there to get every one else to be pres-
ent at what is inevitably the Council’s life
more abundant or the Council’s death.
Which shall it be? Both of your societies
share the responsibility of the answer.
	I have not until now had time to face
this question. Now, I have written you
most plainly and in utmost confidence that
you will use what I have written to help
and to heal and to bind up.
	Quite by accident I learn that my hostess
here (a very clever journalist from whom
you will probably hear in regard to “The
Society for International Amity”), who

