[Column 1]
			RAMBLINGS.
	We have found much satisfaction and
have been greatly interested in visiting
among the several stakes of Zion during the
present year. Prosperity seems to attend
the efforts made by the Relief Society sisters,
and we feel there has been more effort put
forth than during any other previous year.
The genealogical work that has been intro-
duced in some of the stakes has awakened
a deep interest in temple work, which in con-
nection with the great variety of other sub-
jects already undertaken, opens up quite a
wide field, and certainly will promote a ten-
dency towards stronger testimonies of the
far-reaching truths taught and brought forth
in this day and age of the world by the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	It is educational in the best sense to travel
among the people in these valleys and wit-
ness what has been accomplished in a mate-
rial way by the men and women who are
cultivating the soil, building homes in far-
away places, and in the truest sense making
the desert blossom as the rose.
	How diligent and faithful they have been,
is apparent in the appearance of the beau-
tiful gardens and farms, orchards and mead-
ows, and the prosperous and busy settle-
ments one sees on every side.
	Truly the blessing of the Lord has been
shown this people in their labors, and Zion
will rise and shine as the prophets have fore-
told.
	Throughout the various places we have
journeyed this year, greater prosperity
seems to prevail than we could possibly have
anticipated, knowing the difficulties our peo-
ple have had to encounter to secure water
privileges and cultivate arid lands. To be
sure, the men have been diligent and un-
ceasing, or so much could not have been
accomplished. Everywhere we journeyed
we realized how much men have done in
improving the country, in tilling the soil and
making homes; settling towns and villages,
and all this while complying with all the
requirements of citizenship and family obli-
gations. Truly, the Latter-day Saints are a
wonderful people. There have been no such
tests and problems worked out anywhere
else; and this teaches us, that we should im-
press the fact upon our children and their
children, that the Lord is blessing His peo-
ple and Zion is being established, and will
eventually, with the assistance of those who
serve Him, make America the promised

