[Column 2]
be so careful on my account; then I think
we shall pack up tomorrow, and go away
the next morning. Good-night Polly.”
	“Alice,” said her aunt when they were
alone again, “I think I shall go to my sis-
ter’s in M—. Do you remember the fa-
mous, rambling, old country house with the
great wide porches? It was called ‘The
Meadows.’”
	“You mean Aunt Jane’s? I remember
it a little; we used to play under the great
elm trees. Wasn’t there a lot of children?”
	“Seven, I believe, and they are none of
them married: You will not be lonely with
all those young people; at any rate we’ll try
it; I have not been there for many years,
never since my widowhood;” and Aunt
Esther paused for a moment, the word
seemed to stick in her throat.
	“It’s a long way off, and we need not
wait to send them word. I am sure of a
welcome, for your Uncle William is one
of the most hospitable men I have ever
known.”
	“Then, auntie, that’s settled, and I want
you to tell me that romantic story of your
own life, Polly knows something about it,
so of course, there is a story.”
	“What nonsense has Polly been filling
your foolish little head with? Some ser-
vant’s gossip I suppose?”
	“Oh, no, Aunt Esther, this is quite dif-
ferent, and if you don’t promise to tell me
I shall ask Polly before we go to Aunt
Jane’s, because one day she said to me long
ago: ‘Alice, you’re a lovely girl, but not so
attractive as your Aunt Esther was; she has
a history;’ and I wonder, auntie. that I never
have teased you to tell me the story.”
	“Do you see?” said her aunt, pointing
to the clock on the mantel “it is after mid-
night, and we shall have a great deal to do
tomorrow. You really must go to bed now,
and forget all this foolishness about your
auntie. It is quite enough for you to know
me as I am now and to judge me upon
my real merits, and not to listen to Polly’s
insinuations. She’s over fond of me, and
her imagination carries her away some-
times.”
	Alice was sleepy, and therefore bade her
aunt good-night willingly; and Esther Dan-
forth sat there alone brooding over the past
that had been so vividly recalled to her
mind that day. It seemed as though that
letter had brought the past with it, not only
to Esther herself, but Polly and Alice
seemed full of the same reminiscences. She
would not acknowledge to herself that she
had been persuaded to marry for money,
though the world said so, the world in which
she revolved; and tonight as she sat think-
ing she drew the letter from her pocket, the
letter that had excited Polly’s curiosity,
and which seemed to have changed her plans
suddenly.
	“Shall I burn it?” she said to herself. “I
scarcely dare keep it, I am sure Polly recog-
nized the writing,” and as she soliloquised
thus she opened the letter and was again
perusing its contents.
	Looking over her shoulder we might
easily read it too, for she held it wide open,
and gazed as if entranced. It ran thus:
“My Precious Darling:
	“I shall sail for America in a few days;
have made definite arrangements; shall
go by way of London to transact some busi-
ness there, and then for Boston. In a

[Column 3]
few hours after arriving, I shall come to
you, and learn my fate. I can no longer
endure this dreadful suspense. It is years
since I wrote you that first impassioned
letter, after I learned that you were free—
free from that terrible bondage of the heart.
You answered me as though you were an
icicle, or that your heart was frozen; but I
know you better; you are mine; and your
own heart will bear you witness when you
read these burning words. You cannot for-
get if you would, the glorious past, the rec-
ollection of which has hung over me, during
all these years of banishment, like a rain-
bow of promise. I have still the pledge
of your devotion, given me on that May
morning, when we plighted our troth under
the apple boughs and I shall never part
with it. The last time I wrote you an-
swered me in doubt—it gave me some en-
couragement, because you said, ‘Wait, when
the children I have charge of are not de-
pendent upon me for a home, I may con-
sider your proposal.’ Must duty to the
children of your dead brother forever debar
you from fulfilling the pledge of your love
to the living—to one who has waited for
you all these years—that he might take you
to his heart and shelter you there forever
and ever? Esther, I am coming, and from
your own sweet lips, I must hear the words
that shall decide my fate, my further life.
Disguise your true self as you may to others,
you cannot deceive me, by my own strength
of affection, I measure yours, I will ask
you to answer me here, it would be too
long to wait should you say, yes, and so—
farewell until we shall meet, sweetheart,
dearest.
		“Your old sweetheart,
				“SIDNEY MANNING.”
	Poor Aunt Esther, she read the letter
again and again, and her tears poured hot
and fast. She sobbed as if her heart would
break.
	“What shall I say to him when he comes?
How can I meet him again after all these
years? I dare not confess my love, that
has outlived everything. I will not see
him, I will go away; I shall not be able
to withstand his pleadings!”
	Nothwithstanding her mental resolve,
she folded up the letter that had caused all
this tumult of feeling and put it in her bos-
om, and as she passed out of the room and
ascended the stairway, she moaned and
every now and then she leaned her head
upon the balustrade and would have fal-
len but for its support. Little sleep for her
that night while Alice, who was wholly
heart-pure, slept the sweet sleep of youth
and innocence. How true the poet’s words:
Tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep, he like
	the world,
His ready visit pays, where fortune smiles; the
	wretched he forsakes,
Swift on his downy pinions, flies from grief
And lights on lids unsullied with a tear.”
	The household were early astir the next
morning, for Polly, the faithful friend, had
been almost as wakeful as her mistress, and
the day was a busy one with preparations
for the journey and the necessary change.
The trunks were packed and strapped, and
traveling bags made ready, and Esther Dan-
forth, like one in a dream, went from room
to room, to see that all was safe.
	“This was his house,” she muttered un-
der her breath, my husband’s,” and a cold


