			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of Oneida stake Relief Society
conference held in the First Ward assem-
bly hall, June 28, 1913, President L. B.
Benson presiding.
	There were present: President Emme-
line B. Wells of the General Board, Lydia
D. Alder of Salt Lake, Stake Counselor
Taylor Nelson, and 13 members of the Re-
lief Society board. After opening exercises
the statistical and financial report was read.
	President Benson reported the Relief So-
ciety organization of the stake in good or-
der, the aged and poor being well cared for,
the lessons especially being appreciated.
	Sylvia L. Jensen reported the mothers’
work and showed the benefit of this study.
	A review of the Book of Mormon as
taken up by the Relief Society was given by
Lydia N. Benson.
	Lesson 6 from- Book of Mormon study
was given by Amy C. Ballif.
	The following local societies, reported:
Weston, Mink Creek, Preston 4th and 3rd
wards.
	President Emmeline B. Wells addressed
the conference; said she was delighted to see
the improvement that is manifest. Encour-
aged presidents to work for a better average
attendance. As our work is more systematic
we should hope for greater results arid be-
come more intellectual, not forgetting the
spiritual part. She also urged that the
genealogical work be taken up in this stake.
For general information it was asked that
a record be made of all things accomplished
in the Relief Societies, such as making of
quilts, building houses, Sunday eggs gath-
ered, etc. All contributions for any great
cause should be sent to the General Sec-
retary.
	President Benson explained the transac-
tion of sending the wheat to the Richfield
elevator.
	Afternoon Session—Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.”
	Prayer by Bishop Stone of Mapleton.
	Singing, “School thy feelings.”
	Roll was called, 19 societies represented.
	Local societies represented and reported
as follows: Oxford, Treasureton, Glencoe.
	Lydia D. Alder bore testimony to the
Gospel and spoke on the “Holy Land.”
	President Wells again addressed the con-
ference; spoke on the interest our people
have in Joseph Smith, and of his wonderful
work, related how she first saw him when
a girl and of the wonderful thrill that she

[Column 3]
felt, of the divinity of his work, and of her
baptism on March 1, 1842. Told of a
miraculous healing of a lame-girl on this
same day. Bore a strong testimony of the
power of the Prophet, said she heard all
of his last addresses and described very
minutely what is known as the “Transfig-
uration.” Told of her acquaintance with
Mother Whitney, who had the gift of speak-
ing and singing in tongues, which the
Prophet said was the language. spoken in
the garden of Eden. Invoked the blessing
of God on all.
	Solomon H. Hale told of his having seen
the Prophet, of his love for and blessing his
mother. Spoke of Emma Hale as an intel-
ligent, beautiful woman, an “elect lady,”
the first president of the Relief Society.
	President Benson said Sisters Head and
Packer, living now in Preston, had both
seen the Prophet and the “Transfiguration.”
	President Taylor Nelson said his father
was baptized by the Prophet in July, 1842,
is still living.
	President Taylor Nelson prayed that all
would remember the testimonies that they
heard of the divinity of the Prophet and his
wonderful work.
	Geo. C. Parkinson appreciated the priv-
lege of being present to hear the testimonies
of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless Thee.”
	During the services beautiful music was
rendered by the Misses Merrill, Kershaw,
Nelson, Packer, Paul Benson, and a recita
tion by Linda Benson.
	Benediction, Emmeline B. Wells.
