[Column 1]
shiver ran through her veins. “I was al-
most persuaded to leave it once, but my
good angel stood by and saved me; and
Polly, dear, good girl, she helped me to bear
it all. I came here a bride from the church
door, with showers of congratulations.
What a wretched creature I was; with my
beating heart and my broken vows, and
Sidney—I did not even dare to think what
would become of him. I was young then,
so very young to be an old man’s bride;
and he knew I did not love him, but he was
ever kind, too kind, and he left all his wealth
to me—only I must not marry Sidney Man-
ning—there it is, in his will, and it was read
that day, when all the family were there.
What a reproach to me, and how they all
stared, until I fainted; I must not marry
Sidney Manning. No, though my heart
should break; not because of the money—
what do I care for the money? Yet it has
been a blessing to my brother’s children,
left orphaned and destitute,”—and Esther
Danforth sank upon her knees, there alone
in the pale moonlight, beseeching heaven
to guide her footsteps. And her prayer
was answered.
	The journey occupied two days and
nights for those were not the times of steam
and rapid transit. At the close of the sec-
ond day, they reached their destination. It
was a bright, clear, moonlight night, and the
great wide-spreading elms stretched out
their branches, as if to welcome and shelter
them. The greetings were affectionate, and
Alice was quite delighted with the reception
she received; it was so genuine and cor-
dial. The travelers were tired and glad to
go rather early to bed, especially as they
were aware that, as they were in the coun-
try, they would be expected to rise early.
	Time passed quickly with Alice; there
was so much that was new and pleasant,
and three young men, her cousins, vied
with each other in planning fresh surprises
for her amusement.
	Aunt Esther was visiting in a quiet way
with her sister, from whom she had been so
long separated; there were many things
to tell each other, and it was nearing Christ-
mas, and a grand party was to be given in
honor of Mrs. Danforth and her niece.
	Aunt Jane, as Mrs. Wetherell was called
was half sister only to Aunt Esther and Al-
ice’s father, and was some years older. She
was a very estimable woman, and religious
in her nature; had studied the Bible and 
sought to comprehend its meaning. Of late
a new light had shown across her pathway,
and she had been so impressed with the
divine source from which it came, that she
was making a careful and prayerful ex-
amination of the teachings she had received,
from the messengers who came to her with
glad tidings. Her husband was investigat-
ing the doctrine too and ere long they un-
folded to Aunt Esther the view they enter-
tained. Contrary to their expectation, she
seemed to grasp these new truths more
quickly than they had done, and it was a
confirmation to them, that the doctrine was
from heaven.
	Aunt Esther had gone into the country
place with a broken heart, asking help from
one above, and so completely humble was
she, that she was ready to receive heavenly
truths; in fact, she scarcely needed preach-
ing to, her mind was so clear on the sub-
ject presented to her by her sister and her
husband.

