[Column 1]
to styles and fashions. Each organization
should sustain every other organization. The
Lord overrules all and He makes no mistake
in choosing our leaders. Brought greetings
from President Wells. At her advanced
age is still active; was visiting four confer-
ences. Said it was the largest forenoon ses-
sion she had met; felt Sister Wells would
be delighted to be here this morning. Spoke
of temple work and the laying away of the
dead; gave some instructions as given by
Joseph E. Taylor, in laying away the dead.
The Relief Society sisters should know how
to do these things correctly, they should be
authority on this subject. The position of
the Mormons in an educational way stands
third in the Union, even if we are misrep-
resented in the world. Advised all to look
after their genealogy, keeping proper re-
cords and having work done. The General
Board had opened a house for the accom-
modation of visitors and girls coming from
the country.
	Sister Maud Accord from Spring City
gave a talk on “Self Improvement.”
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
	Relief Society conference reconvened at
2 p. m., President Ericksen presiding.
After opening exercises President Ericksen
made a few remarks.
	Sister Mary J. Blackman, of Moroni, gave
a talk on “Charity.”
	Sister McLellan was indeed pleased to
meet such a large audience of both men and
women; spoke of her labors in the mission
field; explained the mission work and bless-
ings received through our efforts put forth
in doing good; spoke of her visit to Nauvoo
and Carthage jail; gave some very
good advice to the teachers and encouraged
them in their noble and grand work.
	President C. N. Lund felt pleased and
much interested in the meetings of the day,
and the good attendance from the wards;
was thankful for the timely and good ad-
vice given, and it was important that all
sisters be present to receive such instruc-
tions; felt this was the best conference held
in the stake; was grateful for the Relief
Society organization.
	Sister Estella Miner from Fairview gave
a very excellent reading, “The Artist’s
Picture.”
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
The stake officers had made an effort to
visit all the wards in the stake before con-
ference.
	Beautiful music was rendered by the choir
and the Misses Lewis and Price.
		FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
						Stake Secretary.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake was held in the
Relief Society hall, at Ogden, Utah, on
saturday, July 19, 1913, at 10:30 a. m. and
2 p. m. with a prayer meeting at 10 a. m.,
preceding the morning session.
	Owing to the illness of Stake President
Sarah M. Taylor, she was unable to meet
with us and 1st Counselor Isabel Foulger
presided and conducted both sessions of
the conference.
	Present on the stand were Sisters Julia
P. M. Farnsworth and Alice M. Horne of
the General Board of the R. S., Elder
Elijah A. Larkin of the High Council, Sis-

