RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL.
	We are pleased to announce the revival of
the Relief Society Nurse School. The
Presidency and General Board have secured
the services of Dr. Margaret C. Roberts to
be physician instructor, and desire to urge
upon the officers of the Relief Society
throughout the Church to take up this mat-
ter immediately with the view of securing
young women to take this course of instruc-
tion and training in order to acquire the
profession of nursing.
	About one year ago the EXPONENT, re-
ferring editorially to Dr. Roberts’ classes in
Nursing and Obstetrics, said:
	“We are pleased to draw attention to this
fact [i. e., the existence of such classes] for
we realize that there is great need among
the people generally for nurses and mid-
wives. The Relief Society especially have
many calls which they find impossible to fill
among the laboring classes who do not ask
for charity work but feel unable to pay the
high prices of the hospital trained nurse;
furthermore, it is a great benefit to every
woman to have some knowledge of physiol-
ogy and hygiene; in fact in order to be an
intelligent and successful mother such
knowledge is absolutely necessary. We ac-
cordingly urge the sisters to assist in ob-
taining young women to take this course.
There are hundreds of graduates from Dr.
Roberts’ classes now practicing in different
localities with admirable success; and the
people everywhere are greatly benefited by
being able to obtain the services of these
efficient young women.”
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society, with the permission of the
First Presidency of the Church, have re-
newed the Nurse School with the intention
of developing it into a great Relief Society
activity.
	Circulars containing information regard-
ing this school have already been sent to the
officers of all the Relief Societies, and they
are respectfully urged to make a special
effort to secure students for this work.
	The time is short between now and the
time for opening the school—October 8,
1913—therefore it will require prompt and
earnest endeavor to secure members neces-
sary to success.
	Presidents, please give this business right
of way, and let every society try to have
representatives to attend the Nurse School.


