THE VALUE OF OUR CLASS WORK.
	A paper prepared, and read by Sister Vin-
cy R. Barker at the annual conference of the
Relief Society of the Ogden stake, July 19,
1913.
	“With all thy getting get understanding.”
The Glory of God is intelligence.” Intelli-
gence is education, and education is the
harmonious development of all our powers.
As ordinarily used it is the development and
cultivation of our intellectual powers.
	The daughters of Zion, the mothers in
Israel have long hungered and thirsted for
that mental and spiritual exercise that will
help us to keep pace with our husbands
and children.
	We have been deprived of this in a great
measure by our too close application to the
cares and responsibilities of family and
home. At times we have chafed under it
while knowing that home should be the most
sacred spot on earth, yet we were lacking in
spiritual and intellectual strength to make
it so.
	Sometimes one has felt the impulse to
fly away and leave it all for very weariness,
indeed it has sometimes been positively nec-
essary to have change and activity of our.
dormant faculties. A thoughtless word, a
careless act from some loved one has been
enough to break the nervous tension and
flee we must or collapse. Too much ner-
vous strain, too little variety, overtaxation
of the physical, starvation of the mental and
spiritual, oh what a pitiful condition when
a mother feels like a prisoner in her own
home, doomed to a life of drudgery, the
same routine day by day and year after
year.
	Sisters, I know whereof I speak. We
understand by what we suffer. I had been
in some form of class work all my life until
about four years previous to the organiza-
tion of the Ogden stake. During that four
years, I have often gone out into the night
after my family were asleep, feeling that my
life was worth nothing but as a-dish washer.-
Sometimes I would walk and walk before
my pent feelings grew calm.
With each step my sad heart became lighter,
	Life’s turmoil to quell; Nature’s balm
		strove,
I returned to my home, found it brighter,
	Filled with- health, plenty, quiet and love.
	I knew that love and confidence for me
filled every heart. I thanked the Lord for
my blessings and took up my work of lov-
ing service again, but I could not drive out
of my heart the yearning for association
with others, the pining for systematic study,
the craving for broader activities which
were satisfied only when I was called to la-
bor in the class work department of the Re-
lief Society.
	It means work, oh yes ancl plenty of it!
but oh, the glorious opportunity of doing
active, effective, directed work along lines
that have been crowded out of our daily
routine; work that exercises faculties and
powers that have lain dormant so long that
many have come to believe that they do
not possess them at all. Oh the Joy that
comes to the class teacher when she sees
these powers awakening in her class. With
aroused interest a wistful longing expression
comes into the faces of the sisters; the desire
to do is approaching the inner soul is beings
reached; heart meets heart in love and sym-


