principled young men and old ones too for
that matter, and mercenary, managing mam-
mas, and all that. It was simply disgusting
to sensible people.”
	“And that was society, Alice, the best
society, so we were informed, and certainly,
if wealth and extravagance are the stand-
ards by which the ‘best society’ is estimated
it must have been.”
	“Yes, auntie, they were rich I suppose,
and they were proud and arrogant but they
were also ill-bred, some of them at least.
Oh, I learned some lessons in the ways of
the world that I shall never forget and I
did not hesitate to tell one young lady, who
carried on a flirtation under my very eyes,
what my mother would have thought of her
conduct, and she begged me to keep the
matter a secret. But a truce to all this
we’ve talked of these things before. I am
positively pining for some one to talk to. I
know you’re good company, and always
amiable, but there is no variety in our way
of living. We’ve got lots of relatives, let’s
go and visit some of them, while Harry’s in
college. When he comes home everything
will be different. He can take us out, and
we shall have more society it won’t be near
so lonely here then he’s always so lovely.”
	“Alice, about the country cousins. Do
you remember where we used to visit when
you and they were children ?”
	“Yes, I recollect some of those quaint old
places up among the New England hills
they’re very nice in summer time, but how
about winter—how would it be then?”
	“There’s skating and sleigh-riding, and
winter pastimes of course. Yet you must
choose, it is for your pleasure we shall go.”
	“Aunt Esther, are there any young peo-
ple at these places you think of—would
it be interesting in that way?”
	“In what way, Alice?”
	“Why, don’t you understand? Would
there be any love-making, or any chance
of getting a good husband?”
	“Alice, you astonish me. Yet just now,
you were deprecating the ways of those
girls at the sea-shore, and now you are talk-
ing in much the same strain.”
	“But I’m in earnest I am going to mar-
ry some great, big-hearted, honest, young
fellow, that has never been in society, such
as I had a glimpse of last season and that
reminds me, auntie, that you have had a
kind of romance in your life. I’ve heard
Polly say so and you never say a word
about it, nor your married life either, though
for that matter I never asked you—never
thought of it in fact until now. Will you
tell me the story? It must be interesting a
chapter out of your history.”
	Before Aunt Esther had time to reply
to all this rapid questioning a knock was
heard at the parlor door and in came Polly
with a handful of letters, and in the excite-
ment Alice forgot what she had said to her

[Column 3]
dear little auntie, as she called her, and be-
gan examining the postmark, a habit with
women, it is said.
	Here’s such a queer stamp; I do won-
der where this letter’s from; some rich old
uncle, I hope, asking us to come for the 
holidays,” exclaimed Alice.
	Then she took up the one she knew to
be from her brother, and hurriedly broke
the seal. While she sat reading it and tap
ping her dainty feet on the carpet, every
now and then, a way she had when over-
joyed, Aunt Esther was busy perusing a
letter that looked even more foreign than the
one Alice had laid down.
	In the midst of the reading, a carriage
drove up, and visitors were announced—
Mrs. and Mr. Elmore and their two daugh-
ters and the letters were put aside
	The two ladies busied themselves enter-
taining their guests during the remainder of
the afternoon. The Elmores were neigh-
bors of theirs, and very nice people indeed.
	The girls were near Alice’s age and were
both bright and clever. The afternoon sped
swiftly away, and Alice had actually for-
gotten the letters, so absorbed was she with
the conversation of their visitors. Aunt
Esther urged their guests to stay and dine
with them, waiving ceremony and they fin-
ally consented. So that it was nine o’clock
or there abouts before they were alone again.
The evening had been a pleasant one and
Alice was in the best of spirits, having
thoroughly enjoyed the society of these
neighbors, who had so much to say that was
worth listening to. One of the young ladies
was a fine singer and was much admired
by Harry, who was passionately fond of
music, as indeed were Aunt Esther and Al-
ce. Miss Elmore had been singing, dur-
ing the evening one of Aunt Esther’s old
favorites that had carried her back in mem-
ory to her girlhood days, and these words
of the song, kept ringing in her ears:

“Oh no, we never mention him, his name is never
	heard,
My lips are now forbid to speak that once fa-
	miliar word.”

	Aunt Esther, so calm and self-contented
to all appearance, would have given almost
anything to have been alone for a few
minutes that she might weep to relieve her
pent-up feelings but even when the guests
had departed, Alice was still there, and she
must not give way.
	The reading of the letters was resumed,
and for a while silence reigned. What a
pretty picture the two ladies made in that
elegant room—Alice was tall and slender in
figure, a perfect blonde in complexion, and
this evening she wore a dress of soft, pale
blue merino, trimmed with dainty lace and
as she sat reading, one might have gazed
in admiration “and turned and come again
to take his fill,” of her rare beauty. Every
now and then she spoke to auntie and her
countenance brightened, as she repeated
some of Harry’s witty and shrewd com-
ments upon his college life. Aunt Esther


