Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS (First Week in October)
NATURE AND ORIGIN OF THE REVELATIONS
1. The book of Doctrine and Covenants comprises a series of Divine revelations given to the world in the latter days principally through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith the Mormon Prophet. These revelations bear the same general relation to the modern world that the Jewish scriptures bear to the people of earlier times. The Bible however is largely a historical narrative enriched with theological instruction, whereas the Doctrine and Covenants consists almost exclusively of the direct word of the Lord to his people.
2. A Modern Scripture. The Doctrine and Covenants is therefore typically a modern scripture, especially designed to meet the needs of latter days. Some of the information it contains is a restatement in simpler form of certain principles and ordinances revealed in olden times; it also contains a vast fund of information concerning which earlier scriptures are largely or wholly silent. The Doctrine and Covenants is therefore characteristically a super-structure built upon the foundation of the former word of God to his people. It accordingly not only affirms the doctrines taught in the earlier scriptures but it meets the needs of modern times, and thus carries its adherents still closer to a complete understanding of the Gospel of the Master.
3. Classification of the Revelations. In general the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants are addressed either to individuals or to the Church as a whole. Not uncommonly, however, the revelations intended for individuals contain information applicable to the entire Church. Likewise the revelations to the Church often contain instructions for individuals. Accordingly a clear-cut classification of the revelations even into the two groups mentioned is not in every case possible.
"No other book in all the world reflects so many aspects of human experience as the Bible. It is this vital quality in the narratives, the poems, the allegories, the meditations, the discourses, the letters gathered in this book that gives it first place among the books of the world not only for currency, but also for greatness."
"No other book in the world has had such influence on human life as the Bible. It would be impossible to record the works of art recording thoughts and emotions having origin in the Bible?all sculpture like Michelangelo's "Moses;" all paint-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
ing like Raphael's "Sistine Madonna;" all music like Handel's "Messiah;" all literature like Milton's "Paradise Lost." It would be impossible to measure the influence of the Bible upon literature. Many authors have given their efforts to this illuminating problem as "Shakespeare's Knowledge and Use of the Bible," "The Bible in Browning," "The Bible in Tennyson." Then there are the great masterpieces directly dependent upon Bible influence as "The Pilgrim's Progress," "Paradise Lost," "Paradise Regained," "A Death in the Desert." The largest and most varied influence is the indirect influence as literature in all its forms reflects life in all its phases and man in his attempt to fulfill the measure of his creator and attain immortality.
Suggestions for Study:
A. Materials.
The Delight of Great Books, Erskine.
The Bible.
Companionable Books, Van Dyke.
The Greatest Books in the World, Porter.
Life and Literature, Hearn.
B. Projects.
It will be noted in the lessons as they are prepared for this course, the customary questions have

been eliminated. The project has been substituted for the questions. The purpose of the project is to provide enrichment and added enjoyment. Some of the projects can be used for the opening program, the music and reading, thus making an interesting coordinated unit for the meeting. Also the several projects can be given the members, and thus bring into participation many members other than the class leader.
The Bible in Art. The Bible in Music. The Bible in Literature. The Story of Job. The Story of Ruth. Intimate Sketch of John Erskine.
C. Method.
The title of the guide book reveals the approach?to create a delight in great books. Never has there been a greater opportunity for the literature course than today. The tensions of life were never more complex. We, the mothers, the women, who are called upon to meet the tensions for self and for loved ones, need help and encouragement. This succor must come, not from an escape from reality but from a greater understanding of life. The lessons in literature can perform this great mission if they are made simple and human, breathing the things of the spirit.
 
Social Service Conduct
CHILD CONTROL PROBLEMS RELATED TO CHILD HEALTH AND PROTECTION (Fourth Week in October)
I. CHILD CARE IN HISTORY
At the opening of the White House Conference in Washington in 1930, President Hoover said: "We approach all problems of childhood with affection. Theirs is the province of joy and good humor. They are the most wholesome part of the race, the sweetest, for they are fresher from the hands of God. Whimsical, ingenious, mischievous, we live a life of apprehension as to what their opinion may be of us; a life of defense against their terrifying energy; we put them to bed with a sense of relief and a lingering of devotion. We envy them the freshness of adventure and discovery of life; we mourn over the disappointments they will meet.
"The fundamental purpose of this conference is to set forth an understanding of those safeguards which will assure to them health in mind and body. There are safeguards and services to childhood which can be provided by the community, the State, or the Nation?all of which are beyond the reach of the individual parent. We approach these problems in no spirit of diminishing the responsibilities and values or invading the sanctities of those primary safeguards to child life?their homes and their mothers. After we have determined every scientific fact, after we have erected every public safeguard, after we have constructed every edifice for education or training or hospitalization or play, yet all these things are but a tithe of the physical, moral, and spiritual gifts which motherhood gives and home confers. None of these things carry that affection, that devotion of soul, which is the great endowment from mothers. Our purpose here today is to consider and give our mite of help to strengthen her hand that her boy and girl may have a fair chance."
This attitude toward assuring children their "province of joy and good humor" has not always been characteristic of this world of ours. Throughout the report of the White House conference there are allusions to historical comparisons. The aim of this lesson is to build an appreciative background from a brief historical lesson for the interpretation of the problems in the course. No movement looking forward to social changes can be thoroughly understood by people who have no feeling for its place in the general progressive development of the world.
Suggestions on procedure: The class teacher can call attention to the allusions in the "White House Conference, 1930," report. Each one can be read and explained. Where the explanation is difficult reference can be made to the material given below. The whole process should be an introductory class study leading to a feeling of the value of recent attempts to give children better care and training. It is not intended that the facts in the lesson be memorized formally.
The Allusions: Charity and community-parental responsibility, p. 16. "The Slaughter of the Innocents," p. 18. Aristotle and the Greeks, p. 134. Earlier Civilizations, p. 153.
A good procedure might be to have the class members bring their magazines to class and read together the following material. The general impression so gained will make clear the above allusions. Or the various topics could be assigned in advance to individuals for study and report. The class period would then be used for making reports and asking and answering questions. Local laws and their enforcement
LESSON DEPARTMENT
in each community should be carefully considered. Note questions in the supplementary material.
Supplementary Material:
Children in earlier civilizations.
History begins with the fact that children were welcome. To become parents was almost universally a great honor and childless couples were often made the objects of social disrespect. But children were a means to economic protection in old age and the perpetuation of the family name in civic activities. Boys were more welcome than girls. Humanitarianism in child care was relatively unknown. It was a test of vitality to survive. Mortality was enormous. In most countries the children were cared for wholly by the women until past the age of five or six or seven, and in Persia it was openly stated that this was to save the father from acquaintanceship with his offspring and subsequent sorrow in case the child died. Infanticide was common in most countries. The biological parental interest in children was manifest in their care. The crude feeding, the often severe education, the peculiar and unhealthful type of dress such as swaddling cloths, and other customs were the products of the general lack of knowledge of the times. Children played. In every country toys, games, festivals, etc., are mentioned frequently. From the graves of children, dolls, pottery, grotesque animals, and other playthings have been recovered. Religious ceremonials and mystic rites were practiced for the children in all countries. Parental obedience was rigidly enforced until early adolescence in most countries when ceremonies released the parent from responsibility and the child from his allegiance. The beginnings of the historical life

of Jesus at twelve years is an expression of this release at adolescence. The social resentment among the people when the children were brought before Jesus indicates how little consideration was given them in civic affairs. Jesus' startling declaration "For of such is the Kingdom of Heaven" was an unusual doctrine.
As the middle ages laid the foundation for our later civilizations certain trends became common. The natural tendencies of childhood were looked upon as evil. Child training was therefore a process of disciplining, hardening, and overcoming these childish ways. Feeding, housing and dressing, except among the high classes were often crudely and illy done. Children in the early colonies were made to stand up and eat hurriedly so they would be out of the way. The children must learn to go without. Punishments for the most minor offenses were severe and cruel because the child needed correction and "bringing up." Children were made to work at an early age and often very hard. Schooling was not common. Such as was provided was formal, literary in content, and often enforced with the dunce stool, lash and other means of physical pain. Courtesy meant being like an adult, not like a child. The child characters in the literature of the period show the effects of these customs. Children went without hats to harden them and their feet were wet or uncared for to toughen them. The children played, but not freely nor happily. Laws and orders prohibited play in the streets or noise or interference with religious devotions. Throughout the period every plan seemed to be to depress children. Laws were passed in the American colonies against swimming, but not

skating. Children were forbidden to sleigh ride. Toys were found in great variety. Child mortality was high. The childhood diseases were common and terrible. Youth grew up in an atmosphere of fear both regarding this world and the next.
Modern Developments:
Four movements have marked development toward our own better day. Child labor control, compulsory education, welfare work, development of child psychology.
Child Labor:
Questions: Are children employed in mills, factories, stores, etc., in your community? Under what conditions do children do farm work in your community? What are the hours and days of labor? Is the physical welfare of the child safeguarded? Does such labor deny the children educational opportunities?
The problem is not the incidental employment of children in the home. It is the question of the regular employment of children in gainful pursuits at the sacrifice of education, play and recreation, and the right to grow physically in a normal way. It is the problem of using children by parents or employers as a means of economic profit. Until the middle of the nineteenth century the details are full of horror. Gradually conditions have improved until by 1929 all of the American states except two had minimum age laws and regulations of the conditions of employment and school attendance. Two-thirds of the states require physical examinations of all employed children. Federal child labor legislation has failed in America because of constitutional limitations. Two laws have been declared unconstitutional. In 1924 Congress passed a constitutional amendment which would give the government power to reg-
 
ulate the employment of children under eighteen years of age. This has been ratified by only five states. It is still pending.
The development of laws to protect children has been long and world wide. In England as early as 1802 a law was passed to humanize the labor and living conditions of the pauper children, many of whom were in the factories at seven years of age. As late as 1833 children were found working fifteen hours a day. Regulations of hours of labor, prohibition of night work, requirements of the simplest elements of sanitation, part time school attendance all came by the end of the nineteenth century.
Compulsory School Attendance:
Blanchard says: "From the era when the public conscience was first aroused against child labor, the laws of compulsory school attendance have been bequeathed to our own times." (Blanchard: "The Child and Society," p. 114.)
The first child labor law in America was passed in Massachusetts in 1842. Ten years later the same state passed the first modern compulsory education law. Schooling had at first been wholly a voluntary opportunity furnished by parents who could provide it. Then came charitable efforts to make education available for the poor children. These movements were later partly supported by the public. By 1825 it had become clearly recognized that taxation for schools was fair and right and the campaign for tax-supported schools was on. The principle involved was generally accepted by the time of the Civil War in America. Opportunities for education were opened up to boys and girls alike. Then began the struggle to guarantee school training as against parental selfish-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
ness or neglect and against the industrial exploitation of children at the expense of education. The demand for schooling in order to build citizenship had created the school facilities. Patriotism and citizenship demanded that children attend school. Laws to require this gradually appeared. Nineteen states had such legislation by 1883; six more by 1890. At the present time every state in the United States has a compulsory education law which assures to every child school opportunities up to a minimum amount or a given age.
Charity and Welfare Agencies:
At the beginning of the nineteenth century dependent and destitute children were given to families at their homes, farmed out to the lowest bidder, cared for by a contract method by the lowest bidder, supported in almshouses, or indentured or bound out as workers to responsible persons. The common rules for indenture indicated the dangers involved. Such rules almost always provided that the indentured servant must receive maintenance and vocational instruction and must not be injured or mistreated. Private orphanages and other charities were developing. In 1797 the society for the relief of poor widows with small children was organized in New York City. This was among the first such charitable institutions to give relief in the homes rather than create institutions. The first half century following was marked by some developments in medical care and schooling in the institutions, a reduction in the tendency to farm children out and a fixing of ages of from ten to twelve as the youngest at which children could become indentured servants. The removal of children from the poor-houses or alms houses marked

the period following the Ohio law of 1866 which provided for tax supported homes to care for needy children. There was rapid growth in the number of these public institutions and in the formulated relationships with the then rapidly developing public school system. Under this plan also developed the more humane system of family placement and adoption in place of the more cruel binding-out of children or apprenticeship. Just preceding 1900 there developed the ideal of prevention of destitution and dependency by the temporary relief of the home. The first mothers' pension laws were passed by Missouri and Illinois in 1911.
A different type of problem is created by the child who is neglected somewhat willfully by parents. The interference of government in such cases was recognized before 1800. By 1825 it was generally agreed that it is the right and duty of public authorities to intervene in cases of parental cruelty or neglect and to remove the children by force if necessary. As early as 1819 a voluntary society for the prevention of pauperism called attention to the terrible conditions of children in prisons without any plan for segregation. In 1823 a society for the reformation of juvenile delinquents was organized and in 1825 a house of refuge was established for this purpose. A similar institution was organized by the city of Boston in 1826. The movement spread to cities and states. The first state institution was in Massachusetts in 1847. By 1856 the idea of the cottage plan of organization was developing, to be followed later by open grounds, the removal of bars and bolts, and the adoption of our fine educational systems for retrieving the delinquent

child and restoring him to citizenship. The probation plan began about 1869 and developed rapidly about 1900. The first American court devoted wholly to children's cases seems to have been established in Chicago in 1899. All of the states now have separate juvenile court laws.
Very recently mental hygiene has become a prominent problem of study in connection with the care of children. School programs and juvenile court work are based on facts concerning the entire child. Efforts are made to locate the problem children as early as possible. The visiting teacher movement is an expression of this interest. The use of visiting teachers began in 1906 in connection with settlement house work. Gradually these workers are becoming regular parts of our public child welfare staffs.
On the positive side the development away from prohibition of play to public provision of opportunities for play have been interesting. From 1890 to 1900 charity began to provide playgrounds for children. By 1910 city departments on parks and recreation began to appear. The Playground and Recreation Association of America, founded in 1907, has been active both in promoting this movement and in directing its growth.
The Scientific Study of Children:
The break with the philosophy which controlled the conduct toward children in the middle centuries came in the opening sentences of the "Emile" by Jean Jacques Rousseau. "Everything is good as it comes from the hands of God, everything degenerates in the hands of man."
In 1795 Desessartz, a French physician, wrote: "I have no other interest in composing
 
this (treatise) than to be useful to the great number of children, victims of a routine the more dangerous because it is that of women who do not know how to do what they have to do, and who believe themselves homicides if in their treatment of their nurslings they dare to leave out or change anything from the conduct of their mothers." (Quoted by Forest: "Preschool Education," p. 136.)
The present century has been marked by unusually rapid developments in the scientific study of children. The use of the diary or genetic type of child study has developed. Thorndike developed an experimental technique for studying animals which has been applied with remarkable success to the study of small children. The field of mental testing has developed and has been extended down to include somewhat accurate measures at three months of age. The method of psychoanalysis, while not as objective or reliable as the ones just mentioned, has been helpful especially in directing attention to the permanent effect of certain early experiences of children. The mental hygiene movement directs attention to the fact that the whole child adjusts to its whole environment. It utilizes all of the techniques of study that have been developed.
Today therefore mothers can know how to do the things they have to do. "Among these recent developments some of the most striking belong to the field of child welfare. During the present century the State has taken a more intimate and effective interest in the wellbeing of the child than ever before. Public-health work has succeeded in adding several years to the child's life. The juvenile-court movement and mental hygiene have helped to combat disorders of conduct. A totally new conception of public relief work has succeeded in preventing much child dependency and in treating the remainder in a more humane manner. An altogether changed conception of the school has brought it into
LESSON DEPARTMENT
closer relationship with life and has been preparing the child for his vocation in a more adequate manner. Altogether the newer interest of the State in the social problems of childhood constitutes a most remarkable chapter in the Twentieth Century's story of Achievement." (Furfey: "Social Problems of Childhood," pp. 1-2.)
The better economic conditions under which children are raised, the wealth of scientific knowledge concerning childhood and the idealism of western civilization all inspire

better trained parents to give children the best care ever known in history.
References:
Blanchard: "The Child and Society," p. 114.
Forest: "Preschool Education," p. 136.
Furfey: "Social Problems of Childhood," pp. 1-2.
"The Children's Charter," , May, 1931.