ON THE MILLER ESTATE Diets for Some Special Diseases By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education The housewife interested in prevention of illness and trained to care for minor disabilities really contributes a considerable amount during the year to the family income in terms of diverting allotments for illness in the family budget to education, recreation or investment. The cost of illness has increased many times in the past three decades. The expense of any serious illness or accident in the family of average income is frequently appalling. The proper valuation of health demands more careful consideration than ever before. Preventive measures are much to be preferred to various kinds of treatments and cures. Interest in preventive medicine by the medical profession is also pointing the way for further decrease in illness and death. Diseases that were considered fatal are now being treated successfully by the well trained members of the medical profession. Superior training and better opportunities for wider experience among both general practitioners and specialists have made the treatment of accident and disease much more scientific than formerly. This superior opportunity and experience have also notably increased the percentage of cures in different diseases and injuries. One notable example of treatment of a disease hitherto considered almost hopeless is that of diabetes. The' discovery of insulin by Drs. Banting and McLoed has made it possible to extend the usefulness and prolong the life of patients suffering from this dread disease which results from inability of the pancreas to take care of the digestion of sugars and starches. Other experimenters had paved the way and hundreds of experiments had been performed in different laboratories in order to determine the functions of the pancreas. After many experiments in making extractions from the pancreas of different animals they found that the best insulin available is that extracted with alcohol from pancreas from mature animals. After the initial discovery of insulin many tests and experiments were necessary in order to find out how to use this important treatinent. Many studies on the amount to be used were made. After hundreds of experiments it was found that the most satisfactory dosage was that which lowers the blood sugar to .045. The amount required, of course, must be determined by the doctor in charge of the case. In general practice it is necessary to start with a small amount of insulin and increase it slowly until the blood sugar reaches normalcy. The diet too must be carried out according to the doctor's prescription. The amount of DIETS FOR SOME SPECIAL DISEASES 135 carbo-hydrate permitted the patient is dependent upon his tolerance for sugars and also according to recent discoveries upon the proportion of fat and protein to starch. Diabetes Mellitus requires very careful regulation of the diet. The power to burn sugar once lost is never completely regained. In order to keep in the best possible physical condition the patient must live within the carefully prescribed diet and regardless of temptation must eat only the limited foods in the prescribed amounts. He should also try to live up to general health rules as far as possible and protect himself from contagion, accident or unnecessary dangers... Because of the nature of the disease the excessive sugar in the blood lowers resistance to bacterial infection and makes possible numerous complications. As a precautionary measure many doctors advise that middle aged and elderly people should have their urine tested once a year. While there are some fundamental diet principles in treatment of Diabetes it is well to remember that each patient pfresents an individual problem. The diet must be carefully prescribed to meet the individual needs and changed as development or retardation of disease demands. It is well to understand that besides the body's failure to burn sugar there is apt to develop a condition known as acidosis which means a disturbed state of nutrition and the appearance of certain acids in the urine. The problem for the dietician is to control both the sugar and acid content of the urine. When acidosis develops as a result of a diet high in fat and protein, the patient is usually required to fast for one or more days after which, if the urine is normal he is allowed a diet rather high in fat with a gradual increase in protein and carbohydrates. The aim is to determine the tolerance he has for these different foods. The following table from Joslin in Pattie's Practical Dietetics is suggestive as to how diets are compiled for diabetics. In order to insure accuracy in measuring foods, physicians frequently require the use of gram scales. As 28.2 grams equal one ounce it is easy to see that there is less danger of the patient getting the wrong combination of foods. A Series of Diets for Testing Tolerance of Diabetics Carbohydrate Protein Fat Total Grams Grams Grams Calorie
I 10 11 6 138 II 22 13 18 302 III 32 24 24 440 IV 42 29 39 635 V 52 32 53 813 VI 63 43 65 1009 VII 73 51 70 1126 VIII 83 59 87 1351 IX 96 62 93 1469 X 107 63 93 
 By the use of tables such as these the dietician under the direction of the physician will be able to determine the patient's carbohydrate tolerance beyond which he must not go. Greater protection is insured the patient if under-nutrition is practiced rather than to foolishly attempt to bring the patient up to normal weight. Attention, of course, must be given to the total calories. Because of the limited diet as well as the nature of the disease it is advisable to make generous use of the more bulky vegetables which may be eaten in considerable quantity without very much increase in carbohydrates. They are also valuable carriers of fat. Vegetables allowed the diabetic are grouped by Mrs. Rose in "Feeding the Family according to their carbohydrate content: Vegetables Grouped According to Carbohydrate Content Less than 5 per cent Celery 10 Per Cent Lettuce 5 per cent String beans (fresh) Cucumbers Tomatoes | Pumpkin Spinach Brussels Sprouts Squash Asparagus Cauliflower Turnip Rhubarb Feg Plant Beets Beet greens Cabbage Carrots Sauerkraut String beans (canned) Onions Mrs. Rose says one and one-half cups of any five percent vegetable and one-half cup of any ten per cent vegetable will yield approximately 5 grams of carbohydrates. "This amount is equal to 20 calories." Where the tolerance for carbohydrates is very low saccharine is used in place of sugar to sweeten foods. It is 500 times as sweet as sugar and should only be used under physicians prescription. It should be used sparingly or a bitter taste results if too much is used. It is well, however, not to use it except in emergency to get the best results in the long run. Possibly the best reference books for the diabetic patient are Pattie's Practical Dietetic, Huddlesom's Food for the Diabetic, Mosenthall's Diabetic Mellitus. (A system of Diets), and Joslin's Diabetic Manual. As constipation has been called the great American Evil it may be well to print the follwing diet for constipation: Dr. Sippy's Diet for Constipation As soon as one arises drink one pint fluid, water hot or cold, or lemonade made with glycerine, not sugar. Have an hour, the same each day, to go to the toilet and sit there for fifteen minutes and say to one's intestines, "You are now having your chance, if you do not act now yeu will not get another chance today." Breakfast?Eat anything you like plus some bran, either raw DIETS FOR SOME SPECIAL DISEASES 137 or cooked, two tablespoons honey, and two raw apples. 10 a.m.?1 glass buttermilk. Noon Lunch?Anything you want plus a baked apple with cream, lettuce with oil dressing, one laxative fruit?prunes, dates, figs, etc. 3 p.m.?1 glass of buttermilk. Evening meal?Dinner: One cooked vegetable One raw vegetable Carrots Carrots Onion Onion Spinach, Celery Celery Cabbage Cabbage Cress Lettuce Greens Greens Note: Some people can not eat bran without suffering from severe irritation in the intestinal tract. Some doctors and nutrition experts place more faith on the softer cellulose of root and green leaf vegetables and the organic acids of fruit than on bran. To some people grape fruit or oranges are more laxative than figs. In extreme or chronic cases of constipation it is wise to attempt to study the case carefully as every case here, as in diabetes, is an individual problem. Regularity of habits and freedom of worry are of great value in overcoming constipation. As a result of careful studies made by Drs. Coleman and DuBois the dietetic treatment of fevers is on a much sounder basis than formerly. The painstaking research of these physicians has determined the need of an increased amount of food in fevers where a high temperature is prolonged over a considerable period of time. This conclusion has been reached by studies of the increased amount of heat from increased oxidation or combustion. Other calorimeter or heat measure studies have also authentically determined the food requirement of normal body processes. Experiments such as these have decreased the death rate in typhoid, somewhat shortened the length of the fever and best of all perhaps has made a decided decrease in the time required for convalescence. Under the old treatment when the patient was fed only very small amounts of food and given only a limited amount of water the patient was kept in a stage of semi-starvation. In some cases in fact the patient reached the stage of emaciation as it was not uncommon for the typhoid patient to lose 40-50-60 pounds during a six weeks typhoid 'case. The old idea that it was impossible to utilize foods in fever is no longer believed. Careful experiments show that not more than 5% to 10% digestive efficiency is lost in fever. It has been 
 proved that when the diet supplies sufficient amount of energy supplying foods and moderate amount of protein that fever patients have been able to maintain body weight without sacrificing the tissues of the body. The present objective in feeding typhoid patients in order to prevent loss of body weight is on the principle that a starving organism has less resistance than one in good condition. The careful studies made by Dr. DuBois has shown that typhoid fever patients can absorb carbohydrates and proteins in almost as large amounts as does the normal individual. The absorption of large amounts of fat in the early stages of the disease is less well done than in the case of proteins and carbohydrates, although later in the disease larger amounts of fat can be taken without difficulty. Typhoid patients of today do not suffer much, if any, loss of weight, because the painstaking work of Drs. Coleman and DuBois has made it possible for the patient to maintain or occasionally increase body weight during the fever term. This has been made possible by increasing the diet so as to furnish easily digested fuel for the increased body temperature to consume. This treatment spares the body tissues and meets the demand for increased heat production which result from toxic substances in the body caused by the typhoid bacillus and other minute organisms. Because of body temperature in-prolonged fever it is necessary to increase the food consumption 40 to 50% above the normal amount so as to protect the patient without using his own body tissues for the increased combustion which results from the fever. In illness of short duration or where the patient has little if any fever the body's equilibrium can be maintained through feeding only enough food to carry on the normal body processes such as respiration, circulation, digestion, elimination and necessary regulation of body temperature. Normally the calorie requirement for this is 1200 to 1600 calories for women and 1600 to 2400 calories for men. In the case of protracted fever, however, the calorie requirement would be increased 30 to 50% so that the small woman would require 2400 calories and the large man would require 5000 calories in order to save the body tissues from being consumed as a result of the fever temperature. Because some of the body tissues are consumed by the fever the diet in fevers is higher in protein than for normal individuals. This is readily explained if it is understood that before food can be used to produce heat in the body different digestive processes must be carried on. Heat is produced as the different kinds of food are gradually broken down into increasingly simple compounds. Experiments in physiological chemistry have shown that carbohydrates are valuable because they spare both protein and DIETS FOR SOME SPECIAL DISEASES 139 fat. In other words the diet rich in carbohydrate is capable of preventing loss of body protein in fever without giving extra amounts of protein. Another argument in favor of a carbohydrate rich diet is that there is less strain on the organs of elimination than is the case with protein. Experimentors have also found that in case of fever a more healthful condition of the alimentary tract is maintained if there is a prepondering percentage of carbohydrate in the food. In the light of these experiments it is conceded that the high protein diet formerly used was the cause of serious intestinal disturbance. In selection of proteins for the typhoid diet a generous use of milk and eggs is advised. As a rule patients can digest milk in quantities of 1 1/2 to 2 quarts a day. Milk may be modified by additions of lactose or cane sugar, malt, gruels from different grains, whey, buttermilk, boiled milk, etc. Three or more eggs are also used in typhoid diet. They should be used raw in eggnog or slightly boiled. In the later stages of the disease greater variety of cooking may be used. During the early stages of the disease a diet like the following from Carter-Howe and Mason's Clinical Dietetics is somewhat typical of the diet the physician might prescribe: Typhoid Fluid Diet 8 a. M. Milk and coffee, each 120 c. C. (4 oz.) 10 a. M. Milk, hot or cold, 240 c. C. (8 02z.) 12m. Barley gruel, 120 c. C. (4 0z.), with milk, 60 c. C. (2 oz.) 2 p. M. Junket with cane and milk-sugar. 4 p. M. Oatmeal gruel 120 c. C. (4 0z.), with milk, 60 c. C. (2 02z.) 6 p. M. Junket with cane and milk-sugar or ice cream. 8 p. M. Hot milk 240 c. C. (8 02.) 10 p. M. Whey, 180 c. C. With one whole egg and sherry. 12m. Oatmeal gruel, 120 c. C. (4 0z.), with milk, 60 c. C. (2 02.) 2 a. M. Junket with cane and milk-sugar. 4 a. M. Milk, 240 c. C. (8 0z.) 6 a. M. Milk, 240 c. C. (8 oz.); 15 gm. (1/2oz.) of lactose added to the four milk feedings. Values: Protein, 71 gm. (21/3 oz.); fats, 81 gm. (2 2/3 oz.); carbohydrates, 160 gm. (51/3 oz.); calories, 2300. From the same authority a typical diet for later stages of the disease or during convalescence is suggested below: Typhoid Diet This diet is best in later stages or in convalescenice. (9.00 a. M., 1.00, 3.00, 7.00, 10.00 p. M. And 1.00 and 4.00 a. M. Y Milk, 6 0Z., calories. 860. Cream, 2 oz., calories, 840. Lactose, 10 em., total, 70 gm.; calories, 280. Total calories 1980. At 11.00 a. M.: Egg (one), calories, 80. Mashed potato (20 gm.), calories 20. 
 Custard (4 0z.), calories, 250. Toast or bread (1 slice), calories, 80. Butter (20 gm.), calories, 150. Coffee.. Cream (2 oz.), calories, 120. Lactose (% oz.), calories, 80. Total calories for feeding, 780. At 5.00 p. M.: Egg (one), calories, 80. Cereal (3 tablespoonfuls), calories, 150. Cream (2 0z.), calories, 120. Apple sauce (1 0z.), calories, 30. Tea. 5 Cream (3 oz.) calories, 180. Lactose (34 0z.), calories, 80. Total calories, 640. At 7.00 a. M.: Egg (one), calories, 80: Toast (one slice), calories, 80. Butter (3/4 oz.), calories, 150. Coffee. Cream (2 0z.), calories, 120. Lactose (1/2 0z.), calories, 80. Total calories, 510. Milk-sugar, lemonade may be substituted for the milk mixture at 3.00 o'clock.. Approximate values: Protein, 90; fat, 250; carbohydrate, 318. Total calories, 3910.