Mothers in Israel.

The picture of Mrs. Margaret McIntyre Burgess was taken in 1868, and is redolent of those pioneer days. The strong, patient features of this unsung heroine betrays the gentle courage and kindly diligence which made her a striking though modest figure in early pioneer times. We have secured from her a personal sketch which reveals in every line the unspoken heroism and fortitude that were the basic elements of this good woman's character. Her little incidents concerning the Prophet Joseph Smith give an added touch of tender realism to the story she has told.

REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET MCINTIRE BURGESS.

St. George, Utah, October 16, 1916.

Dear Sister Susa Young Gates:

I was born in 1837, in the state of Pennsylvania, coming from that state when three and a half years old with my parents, one brother older, and one, younger. Brother Erastus Snow brought the gospel to Pennsylvania, he being only 17 years old at that time, but he was a very fluent and gifted speaker even at that age; my parents told me in later years, that he made his home at my father's while he was in

that part of the country. My parents both embraced the gospel under his influence and teachings and were baptized by him in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

At that time the Saints were gathering at Nauvoo, Ill., and my father wanted to gather and be with the Saints at that place, so he soon sold his property, what he did not give away, and started for Nauvoo. I think it was in the year 1840, and there were a good many Saints had gathered there at that time; we traveled by land, as mother had such a fear of traveling by steamboat, and father sent all our domestic goods, and a large stock of merchandise, by water.

When we arrived at Nauvoo, our things were stored in a large frame building, unfinished, owned by a gentleman by the name of George Telling, being on the corner of Main and Parley streets. My father bought it and had it finished up comfortably and we lived there until the general expulsion of the Saints to the West.

We left Nauvoo the first part of May, 1846, crossing the Mississippi in the evening while many Saints were ahead of us and some yet behind, but we had a goodly company. The morning we started on our journey to the Rocky Mountains, although but a child, I had to look back upon the beautiful temple of Nauvoo, it being on the hill, I could see it plainly as we journeyed westward; the company all seemed so happy in traveling and camping along our way. I don't remember of any accident on the way; of course, we met many Indians on our way, but they were friendly.

We finally arrived at Council Bluffs where there was a very large camp of the Saints, and it was there the word was received for our Mormon Battalion to go. Many men got ready to go, leaving their wives and children to the kind mercy of God and friends. When we broke up camp some crossed over the Missouri river to a place called, at that time, Winter Quarters (later Florence) while some of the camp stopped on the east side of the river. My father with four other men with their families lived in a wooded ravine where they each built a log cabin for their families, which made us very comfortable as the weather was getting cold. Just below our cabin was the Pottowatamie Indian village, and just above us was their grist mill. They had some nice farms near their village and they were good and kind neighbors. Wild grapes grew in abundance on the side of the hills, and elderberries and hazelnuts, all we wanted, and the Indians would bring us in wild honey for some nice thing we would have that they wanted.

After wintering there, in the spring we crossed over the river to Winter Quarters and stayed there until President Young started for the Rocky Mountains, with his company, and he advised those

who had not means to go on with, to go back over the river as the Indians were getting bad and quarrelsome; therefore we moved back. After he left we went to a place called Kanesville, named after General Kane, who was a great friend to the "Mormon" Church. So we all traveled back again and built us some more log cabins and a large log school house and a great many that were not "Mormons" moved in there and helped to build up the place, and they built several stores and were pleasant people and agreeable. Orson Hyde was our president. Kanesville was a very pretty place in the spring of '49.

Those who could get ready started out for the Great Salt Lake Valley the next season, but we still had to leave some of our company behind. Our company was composed of one hundred wagons, had a captain, Brother Orson Spencer, who had just returned from a mission to England, and then the company was divided in two fifties, each with a captain. William Miller was one captain and Orson Hyde the other. We had some trouble with the Indians, the Pawnees; they had been back to draw their money from the Government at a place called Sarpus Point, just below Kanesville, and the cholera had broken out there and many of the Indians took it and they traveled along with us quite a bit, only as they would take some cut-off; in fact, we had to pass through their village later as the road went through it. The consequence was five of our brethren died with the cholera. My father had it and two others came down with it. Father felt so badly at the loss of the brethren that he dreamed of a cure and he tried it and then gave it to the other two who were likewise cured. We traveled hard to get out of that section, even late at night.

My father had three wagons  one was entirely devoted to my mother and her little children, the side being opened and fixed in a frame to get out and in without fear. The company's family wagons were all made in that way. Our teams were mostly oxen. I drove a team across the plains and was only 12 years old. My brother two years older had to help drive loose cattle, sometimes through rivers, over mountains, and over the Black Hills, then down Emigration Canyon. We landed in the beautiful Salt Lake Valley, truly a haven of rest.

We lived in the old fort the first winter, and in the spring my father bought a lot up in the town where City Creek ran through it at the back part of it; in later years this part was known as the 16th ward. Frederick Kesler was our bishop.

I was married in the spring of 1855 to Melanchton Burgess, and with his parents, brother and sister and my parents and their family and my own two little boys, we were called to Dixie in 1861. Surely its inhabitants have made the desert to blossom like the rose, compared to our first entrance into St. George. The

name of my father was William Patterson McIntire; my mother's name was Anna P. McIntire, and she belonged to the first Relief Society that was organized in the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith's wife Emma being the president.

I must now tell you something of my childish personal incidents at Nauvoo, our place being two blocks above the Nauvoo Mansion. We were close neighbors to the Prophet's family, and very intimate, too. The Prophet was often in our home for short visits. One morning he came in and he noticed I had a piece of flannel around my throat. He inquired if my throat was sore. Mother told him it was, and she was afraid it was the mumps. He called me to him, took me upon his lap, took the flannel off and asked mother for the oil. He anointed my throat with the oil and then he administered to me. I knew I was well, as I got down from his lap after which I felt no more sore throat  another proof of his tender, loving heart.

One morning as we were on our way to school, my brother and I were forced to walk in some very muddy places as it had rained the previous night. The school was down near the river and there was one very bad place we had to go through where we got stuck fast, and I began to cry, as did my little brother. I thought I would surely never get out, but on looking up, we saw the Prophet coming right for us. The crying soon ceased. He carried me out first and then my brother. He took his handkerchief out of his pocket, wiped the tears from our eyes and cleaned the mud off our shoes, all the time speaking comforting words to us, sending us on our way rejoicing, at the same time pointing out a safer way to get to the school house. Oh, our beloved Prophet, how deep were his sympathies and how his kind heart yearned to do good.

Now, let me tell you another incident before I stop. My mother had twin baby girls, and Aunt Emma, as we called her, (the Prophet's wife) had been confined, and her babe had died; soon after the birth the Prophet came in one morning and said, "Sister McIntire, I have come to borrow one of your babies," and mother exclaimed, "Why, Brother Joseph, what do you want with one of my babies?" "Well," he replied, "I want one of them for my wife to comfort her only for a time." He talked with mother a while and she finally told him he could have one baby through the day time if he would bring it back nights, so the bargain was made and the Prophet smiled with gratitude. The twins were so much alike they could scarcely be told apart, but, of course, mother knew and their dispositions were not alike  Eve was a quick little thing and the other one was mild. My mother would set them in the double cradle, made high at each

end and low in the middle, and give each some playthings, and the quick one would take all the things away from the mild one. They were dressed exactly alike. One morning when the Prophet came for the baby, mother reached him the other baby. He took it and looked at it, kissed it and handed it back and said, "Not my little Mary," so mother reached him little Mary. He had always taken the little mild one  her name was Mary and the other one was Sarah. The Prophet would always bring the baby up himself at night. One night he did not come as usual and mother went down and found the baby was crying. Brother Joseph was sitting by the fire trotting it. He had it wrapped up in a little silk quilt, preparatory to starting out with it. When mother went in it reached its hands to her. When she took it the baby soon was still. When mother started back the Prophet took the baby from her and walked up home with her. When Aunt Emma's health returned, our baby came home to stay. When she was able to walk she came often to see baby Mary, as our home was only two blocks from the Mansion.

This dear sister closes her interesting reminiscences with the following brave words:

I have been confined to my bed for most three years, not being able to use my lower limbs on account of severe rheumatism. Last summer I walked some with crutches, but I have not been able to walk this summer. I have to be lifted on a chair when I have my bed made, but my heavenly Father has allowed me to have the use of my arms and hands. I can sew and knit, read and write, which is a great comfort to me.

Well, dear sister, I hope I have not tired you.

Respectfully,
Margaret McIntire Burgess.

ANSINE MARIE LARSEN PETERSON.

Ansine Marie Larsen Peterson was born in the northern part of Denmark, Sept. 3, 1845. Her parents belonged to the working class. She began earning her living at the age of nine years by herding stock and tending babies. She began school at the age of seven years, going to school in the winter, until she was thirteen years of age. She accepted the gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and was baptized Feb. 17, 1857.

Sister Peterson emigrated to Utah in 1866, crossing the ocean in an old sailing vessel formerly used to carry cattle, but which had been condemned for that purpose, and was cleaned up

and considered good enough to carry a company of "Mormons." She met and married James Peterson, June 10, 1866, on the Atlantic ocean, Sam Sprague officiating. She was driven from home on account of having accepted the gospel. The company left Hamburg in the ship Kennilworth, May 21-22, and arrived in Salt Lake City, September 30 or October 1 of the same year. The ox-team in which she crossed the plains was led by Captain Rollings of Cottonwood, now known as Holliday. It was intended for this family to go north, but the company from Cache Valley left the day before, and there being no other means of travel at that time, and as they could not speak nor understand the English language, they remained in and around the city. Finally the Petersons acquired a little home in what was at that time Mill Creek, now Wilford ward.

MRS. ANSINE L. PETERSON AND FOUR GENERATIONS.

The couple had ten children, two (twins) died in premature birth. Brother Peterson died in May, 1879, leaving his wife and seven children. Two months later, in July and August, both mother and children were stricken with diphtheria. Three of the children died at that time. Two years and a few months later Sister Peterson married again and had one child in that marriage. Death took some more of the children as time went on, and there are but three living now. One of the three children has seven children, another has twelve and the other has one child. There are three great grand children.

Sister Peterson and her husband were sealed in the Endowment House, in 1869. She became a member of the Relief Society, in 1877-8, and was appointed a teacher soon after. She was second counselor in one of the Primary Associations of the ward (Mill Creek). After the Sunday School was organized (1893) in the present Wilford ward, Sister Peterson was one of the first teachers appointed and set apart, and has since labored in the Relief Society, Primary, Sunday School, and Religion Class, both in Utah and Idaho, and was also a member of the Y. L. M. I. A., has worked a little at genealogy, has attended to temple work since 1906, and has been a proxy since Sept. 26, 1913.

There is no sweeter, tenderer spirit ever tabernacled
in the flesh than Sister Peterson, none more unselfish, more devoted to God and his kingdom. She is a charming representative of the splendid old Scandinavian stock, an Israelite in whom there is no guile. No matter how cold the day or hot the weather, it is just right for her. She greets everyone with a smile, trusts humanity till she wins honest and fair dealing from the most careless and slothful, loves life, man, and God with all the ardor of a true follower of Christ.