MARY R. GOODLIFFE

	Mary Robbins Goodliffe, daughter of
Edmond and Agnes McAllister and beloved
wife of Bishop Arnold Goodliffe of Snow-
ville, was born in Manchester, England,
June 27, 1840, and died in Snowville March
8, 1898, aged fifty-seven years, eight months
and twelve days.
	Aunt Mary as she was called by all, from
the “hoary headed to the lisping toddler”—
was baptized a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when
she was eight years old, crossed the plains
with the Milo Andrus company and arrived
in Salt Lake City Utah in 1855. While en-
route for Utah Aunt Mary was stricken
with the fatal disease of cholera, at Mormon
Grove. There the great faith in the Gospel
and its ordinances which has ever since
been emblematic of her life showed itself. 
Although her eyes were glazed and set in
death, when asked if she had faith and 
wanted to live she nodded her head in the
affirmative, was administered to and in-
stantly healed under the hands of Elder
Israel Barlow (now deceased) of Bountiful.
	Her father died in St Louis, her dear 
mother followed shortly after their arrival
in Salt Lake and thus she was left alone—
no home, no friend but God to dry the or-
phan’s tear and suppress the heart broken
moan. She passed through the hard times 
of famine and distress which the Saints
endured in this early day, and to add to her
troubles fell into the hands of a woman who
treated her most unkindly. She became
acquainted with, and on August 16, 1857.
became the wife of Arnold Goodliffe. They
took part in the move of 1858, and after the
return of the Saints settled in Kaysville.
	At the time of the settlement of Cache 
Valley she and her husband went with a
company and helped to settle Franklin.
While the Fort was building, one side being
open, the brethren were all away in the
mountains except an old man by the name
of Garner, forty Indians headed by “Weber
Tom” rode into the Fort and threatened to
kill every woman and child. Brother
Garner knew “Weber Tom” and with
Aunt Mary made a parley with them, told
them they had better have some dinner first,
and to the great joy of both, the Indians
agreed to this. Aunt Mary rallied the
fainting, frightened and screaming sisters,
and they with Brother Garner gathered all
the bread and buttermilk they could muster.
While the Indians were enjoying the repast
the brethren returned, and thus the massa-
cre was averted. It went all over the val-
ley that Aunt Mary had whipped forty 
Indians with bread and buttermilk, thus
proving the wisdom and divinity of the
counsel of our beloved President Young,
“Feed, don’t fight the Indian.”
	Aunt Mary afterwards moved to Logan, 
her husband having been called there by
Elder Ezra T. Benson. When Apostle C. 
C. Rich moved to Bear Lake valley Sister


Goodliffe with her husband was among the
first settlers there, settling where Blooming-
ton ward now stands. While yet in camp
there with only a bowery overhead and their
wagon boxos for houses, while tho men
folks were away getting logs for dwelling
houses a fire broke out in camp. In the
excitement of such an occurrence some of
the sisters forgot their sleeping babes in
Brother Groodliffe’s wagon box. When the
cry was made for the babes Aunt Mary
with a courage born of God, sprang into
the now burning boxes, handed out the
babies, then threw out several cans of
powder which were already so hot that her
hands were blistered. Brother Goodliffe
and wife lost all they possessed.
	After a stay of four years in Bear Lake
they moved to Malad City. Here Aunt
Mary labored as a teacher in the Relief
Society from its organization. In 1876 her
husband was called to the office of Bishop to
preside over Curlew valley where the fam-
ily then moved to, and where the town of
Snowville (named in honor of Apostle
Lorenzo Snow) now stands. Here Aunt
Mary was called to the presidency of the
Relief Society at its organization in 1878,
which office she filled with honor and dig-
nity up to the time of her death and as one
of the speakers at the funeral remarked,
“Her place will be hard to fill.” Aunt
Mary’s home has always been a wel-
come retreat not only to her friends but
even to her enemies (of the Gospel) where-
ever she has dwelt, as hundreds can testify.
	The funeral services were held in the
school house April 14th, the procession 
forming at her house two and a half blocks
away, the Relief Society at the head, the re-
mains of Aunt Mary being lovingly and
reverently borne by her six nephews followed
by the family and friends. The speakers
were one and all eulogistic in their praises
of Aunt Mary’s virtues, good deeds and of
her undying faith in and unwavering obe-
dience to the Gospel in its fulness. The
Lord for a wise purpose had denied her
children but she was most truly a Mother
in Israel. Truly could she say “I have
fought my way through, I have finished
the work Thou didst give me to do,” and
will from her Lord receive the glad words,
“Well and faithfully done, enter into my
rest and sit down on my throne.”
