UTAH PATRIOTISM.

	THERE can be no doubt left in the mind
of any honest-minded person of the sterling
patriotism which exists in Utah. They are
loyal to the heart’s core and their ready re-
sponse to the call to arms has abundantly
proven it beyond contradiction.
	The heroism too of the mothers, wives
and sisters in the encouragement given even
though they were deeply pathetic in their
tenderness and heartfelt emotion, shows their
love of country and sympathy with the
down-trodden and oppressed of other nations.
It has been a part of the religion of the
Latter-day Saints to uphold the nation’s
honor, notwithstanding all that has been
said and published to the contrary. They
love the flag because it is the emblem of a
free republic and they hold sacred the Con-
stitution of the United States.
	War is a terrible thing, but when it be-
comes necessary to protect the life of any
nation or people from a bondage worse
than death, who can say it is not justifiable?
Would there were some better way, some
protection that could be obtained by arbi-
tration! Would that men could accept the
olive branch when offered, or a flag of truce
—but such is not the case at the present
time with Spain.
	President McKinley was, it is very evi-
dent, unwilling to declare war and it was
not until the war had actually begun that
he consented to any war measures. Ameri-
cans on the sea and on the land have clear-
ly evidenced their bravery and loyalty
as citizens of a free nation and the greatest
Republic on the earth. What more can any
man do than has been done; and is being
done daily and hourly for the unfortunate
Cubans to raise them from tyranny and
bondage for all time to come? But O, let
us hope and pray that war shall cease, that
the Lord will turn the hearts of those who
bear rule in ill-fated Spain to surrender
Cuba and give her poor oppressed people
freedom. Surely the women whose sons,
husbands and fathers have gone forth to
battle, will intercede with One who rules
and over-rules and who holds the destinies
of men and of nations in His hands—and
He will lend a listening ear to the prayers
of a broken heart and contrite spirit.
	Let us hope the world is not so wicked
that nations will be slain in a day, but if so
and the cries of the innocent have reached
unto heaven for vengeance, then indeed
must we beseech the Lord for strength to
endure the terrible ordeal.


