WAYNE STAKE
	The Relief Society conference was held
Feb 28, 1898, in the Thurber Relief Society
hall. Meeting called to order by Counselor
Mary E. Hanks. Singing “Prayer is the
souls sincere desire.” Prayer by Patriarch
E. H. Blackburn. Singing “O Lord of
hosts we now envoke.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted. 
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks said she was
pleased to meet, with the brethren and sis-
ters in Relief Society conference, had en-
joyed a spiritual feast at the Stake confer-
ence and her heart burned with love for the
Gospel. Desired to see the young people
step forward in the Church and prayed God
to bless the sisters in their labors.
	Loa, Thurber and Grover branches were
represented by their respective presidents.
Teasdale, Cainsville, Aldrich and Giles were
also reported by their representatives; all
were doing good work and were energetic
in their labors.
	Stake President Jane S. Coleman was
pleased with the reports given and felt to
thank the Lord for the everlasting Gospel.
Bore testimony to the gift of healing and
was desirous for the sisters to be encouraged
in their labors of love. At our meetings


we should make choice of elevating sub-
jects, such as virtue, charity, etc.; also to
see that our records are kept in good con-
dition. Spoke in very appreciative terms
of what the Thurber Relief Society board
had accomplished the past year. Through
their energy and the assistance of the
brethren they have built a fine brick build-
ing on the new town site.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth was gratified
to have so many of the brethren meet with
us, for where the Priesthood are there the
Spirit of the Lord is in greater abundance.
We should try to put in practice the good
teachings we hear from time to time. Ex-
horted all to keep the word of wisdom and
set a good example to the young people.
	Bishop M. W. Mansfield was proud of
the Relief Society in Thurber, they were
energetic in their labors. Said the instruc-
tions given had come from the proper spirit,
and said that we should apply the word of
wisdom so that our bodies might be healthy
and strong.
	Patriarch E. H. Blackburn was pleased
to meet with the sisters and partake of the
good spirit in their conference. He had
labored fifty-five years in the Church and
had never tired of working for the Lord.
God’s blessing must be upon the Relief
Society, because it was organized by His
Prophet.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “O, My Father.” Benediction by
Bishop W. E. Hanks.
	Afternoon session: After the usual open-
ing exercises the statistical report was read,
President Jane S. Coleman explained the
expense fund, Counselor Mary E. Hanks
presented the officers of the Relief Society,
Sisters Leah Blackburn, Sarah A. Robison,
Eliza Brinkerhoff, Mary E. Gordon, Mary
Bullard and Maria Jakeman all bore testi-
mony and exhorted the sisters to perform
their duties. Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth
made timely remarks.
	Bishop W. E. Hanks said he had been
edified by the instructions given, our object
is to teach the young people that which we
pratice ourselves. We have got to be ex-
amplary in our lives, we have a great mis-
sion to perform.
	Counselor M. E. Hanks said we cannot
live without the blessings of the Lord, we
should make progress in the Church, the
Lord does not require anything of us that
we are not able to accomplish.
	President Jane S. Coleman made re-
marks that were encouraging and appreciat-
ed by those present.
	Patriarch E. H. Blackburn said he could
look back and remember when the Relief
Society was not in the condition it is today,
said death was brought into the world for a
wise purpose, and closed with blessings for
the sisters.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “When shall we all meet again.”
Benediction by Elder George Stringam.
