LETTER ON THE SUBJECT.

Office of the First Presidency of the
	Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
	Saints.
			Salt Lake City Utah,
					April 28, 1898.

Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of the
State of Utah:
	Dear Governor—We have read with
much interest your proclamation to the peo-
ple of our State, in which you call, in re-
sponse to the proclamation of the President
of the United States, for the enlistment of
500 men to furnish Utah’s quota of the
125,000 volunteers called for by the
President to serve in the army of the United
States for two years.
	The people whom we represent are lovers
of peace, and would do anything in their
power consistent with honor and the patri-
otic duty which every citizen owes to his
country, to avert war and its dreadful train
of consequences. Because of this feeling
we have been led to admire the course which
has been taken by President McKinley
throughout the Spanish imbrogilo, and we
have hoped that his efforts to preserve
peace between the two countries would re-
sult in success.
	But war has been declared and we have
it to meet. Our citizens are called upon to
enlist, and Utah is asked to furnish cavalry
and batteries of artillery approximating 500
men.
	We trust that the citizens of Utah who
are Latter-day Saints will be found ready to
respond with alacrity to this call which is
made upon our State. There was a time in
the past when we were called upon as a
religious organization, to make a far greater
sacrifice than this, under circumstances that
were exceedingly painful. Then there was
no hesitation; but upwards of one-third of
the men of suitable age formed a battalion
of 500, left the camp and volunteered to
take part in the Mexican war. In like
manner there should be no hesitation now;
and we sincerely trust that your recruiting
officers will find our co-religionsts as ready
now to enlist and march to the defense of
their country as their fathers were in the
days to which we refer.
	Trusting that you will be eminently suc-
cessful in raising Utah’s quota of volun-
teers, and praying that the Almighty will
protect our nation in the hour of trial and


assist us in our battles for humanity and
right, we remain. Very respectfully
	WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	GEO. Q. CANNON,
	JOS. F. SMITH,
First Presidency of the Church of Jesus
	Chirst of Latter-day Saints.


