MELBA’S CONCERT.

	THE world renowned Mme. Melba has
visited Salt Lake City and given her con-
cert in the Tabernacle. There were some
disappointments because of the failure to
appear in numbers assigned them of Mme.
Yon Canteren, Signor Carloone, Signor
Viviani and Mr. Van Hoose. The Sym-
phony orchestra under the leadership of
Signor Bamboni was exquisitely grand,


the opening number was Der Frieschsutz.
Mme. Mallfield’s sweet voice was greatly
appreciated in the air from Mignon, and
Mr. Rains, the basso, has a glorious voice,
his first selection “La Juire” was vigoro-
usly applauded, and to satisfy the demands
of the audience he gave “The Three Gren-
adiers,” which ends with the “Marsellaise.”
He has a fine presence and as he is only
young doubtless has a magnificent career
before him. Mlle. Toronto has a clear
soprano voice and shows much culture, she
sang first “Nobil Signor,” which was ex-
cellent and the applause was such that she
very gracefully gave a sweet little ballad as
an encore. On Mme. Melba’s entrance the
audience gave her an ovation such as we
have rarely seen, the enthusiasm increasing
as her birdlike notes trilled and thrilled
with wonderful harmony the delighted
listeners. It is the idea of some who are
connoisseurs of music that she surpasses
Patti and Nordica. Her first solo was from
the mad scene in Lucia, and certainly she
proved herself a finished artist in the pro-
fession. The accompanist, Mr. Spindler,
played the flute obligato which produced
still greater bursts of harmonious sounds
and the entire audience were wild with de-
light. After reappearing the third time she
gave the finale once more. A large bouquet
of magnificent roses was presented to her.
On her second appearance she gave the song
Mattinata Fasti, and received such applause
as is seldom accorded here, especially in the
Tabernacle; to pacify the people who in-
sisted upon her singing again notwithstand-
ing her gracious bows in acknowledgment
of the enthusiasm exhibited, she sang in a
daintily pathetic fashion the Swanee River,
Bamboni himself standing and turning the
leaves of her music. On her last appear-
ance she sang with great feeling Ardita’s
Se Saran Rose, and this she was obliged to 
repeat although her bows and acknowledg-
ments were profuse.
	Signor Campanari shared to a great ex-
tent the ovations of the evening. He has a
rich, full baritone voice, his manner and pre-
sence were in perfect taste which is always
a pleasure. His first number was “Dio
Possente” from Faust which is a favorite
generally, and for an encore he gave the
Toreardor song from Carmen, which is also
a very great favorite here. Finally he gave
the prologue from Il Pagliacci.
	The great tenor Salignac who seemed to
give great expression aside from his voice,
which was a superb tenor, shone brightly in
the pretty aria of Romeo and Juliet—which
also called heartily for an encore.
	The Tabernacle choir gave at first Aida,
under the leadership of Prof. Stevens with
the full strength of their singers, who made
a good showing and were in good voice,
and seemed to attract much attention from
strangers. For a finale the choir gave the
church scene from Cavalleria Rusticana
which was specially fine and marvellously
well done considering the great number of
voices which blend into one great burst of
sound.
	The superb orchestra finished the con-
cert with Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro”
which was most exquisitely rendered.
	One of the disappointments of the con-
cert was that one act from “The Barber of
Saville” which had been so much adver-
tised was not given. Although the pro-
gram was fine there was scarcely as much
as a glimpse of grand opera as had been an-
ticipated by the audience.


