FLORIDA.

	ON the eventful 9th of April when Con-
sul General Lee and the many imperilled
Americans took leave of Havana, Clara
Barton with her assistants and corps of
trained nurses, also left that city for Tampa,
Florida, and here will be their headquaters
until called elsewhere by “war alarms.”
	They have taken commodious furnished
apartments on Plant Avenue, near the bay,
and look after their own needs, having for
the time being a comparative rest from the
work of relief of the suffering to which they
have devoted themselves. Miss Barton has,
however, been in conference with Mayor
Gillette and Mr. Edward Manrara of this
city, regarding the feeding of such needy
Cubans as are not supplied at the Manrara
kitchen. For months this Mr. Manrara, a
wealthy Cuban citizen, has provided meals
for his unemployed countrymen and their
families in Ybor City, as the fourth ward of
Tampa is called, where reside 8,000 to


10,000 of these people. In West Tampa
and other parts of the city are others who
have not been so systematically helped. It
is in aid of these and many other refugees
from the islands that Miss Barton is inter-
ested.
STATEMENT MADE BY HER TO A REPRESEN-
TATIVE OF THE LOCAL PRESS.
	‘‘The American National Red Cross has
been in the field of Cuban relief several
weeks, acting under the civil constitutional
clause of its treaty, which empowers it by
consent of the nations, to work in the relief
of suffering by great national calamities, ir-
respective of war.
	“The original treaty of Geneva provides
only for relief in war. The extension of
the provisions of the treaty to include other
great disasters, was a special concession
made to the American Red Cross, upon its
accession to the treaty, and is known as the
American Amendment.
	“The singular coincidence now presents
itself of both provisions of the treaty being
called into action in the same field. The
Red Cross has distributed the food sent by
the people of America to the suffering recon-
centrados as long as such action was admiss-
ible. Now that war is imminent and our
guns prepare to sweep the island, it be-
comes the duty of the Red Cross to retire
from the threatening field and place itself in
position behind the guns and wait. When
men fall by the sword it will faithfully and
fearlessly fulfill its mission of relief in war,
caring for all, friend and foe alike.
	“Let it be well understood by all Ameri-
cans that their Red Cross has not left the
field, any more than have the great waiting
monitors in the harbor of Key West. It
has withdrawn to its proper position, and
waits its call to duty. The Red Cross in
military service never precedes, but follows
the army and obeys implicitly the orders of
the general in command. Our commanders
will all understand this, and it is to avoid
confusion in the minds of the people that I
make these explanations.”
								Ex.


