GOV. WELLS’S PROCLAMATION.

	IT was after midnight last night (April
25) when the Governor and Secretary of
State Hammond signed a proclamation for
volunteers. It took upwards of four hours
of consultation before the document was
completed. There were quite a number
present at the conference, among whom
were Adjutant General John Q. Cannon,
Cols. Charles S. Burton, Nephi W. Clayton
and W. H. Penrose. The proclamation is
as follows:
“By the Governor of the State of Utah:
	“A PROCLAMATION.
	“Whereas, The President of the United
States has issued a proclamation calling up-
ton the various states for 125,000 volunteers
to serve in the army of the United States,
the same to be apportioned among the
several states and territories and the Dis-
trict of Columbia, according to population
and to serve for two years unless sooner
discharged, and
	“Whereas in pursuance of said procla-
mation the secretary of war has designated
the quota from the State of Utah to be one
troop of cavalry, special mounted service
and two light batteries of artillery;
	“Now, therefore, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the State of Utah, to supply
the said quota from this state, do hereby
call for volunteers to the approximate num-
ber of 500 men to enlist in the army of the
United States for the term of two years un-
less sooner discharged. It is the wish of
the President that the National Guard shall
be used as far as their numbers will permit,
and they are therefore especially invited to
enlist. This being the first call for volun-
teers, however, and there being a possibili-
ty of others, this invitation is not to be
construed as expressing the desire that the
infantry arm of the service be weakened by
transfer or discharge. The proportion of
calvary and artillery in the organized militia
being small there will be abundant oppor-
tunity for civilian volunteers, and to them
the invitation is extended with equal cor-
diality.
	“The general requirements for enlistment
are as follows: Men should be intelligent,
active and muscular, free from disease and
of good character and habits, and between
the ages of 21 and 45. Candidates will be
subject to the medical examination pre-
scribed by the army regulations. All of
the recruits for the cavalry and a great
majority of those for the artillery must be


accustomed to horses, and a suitable pro-
portion should be mechanics.
	“Officers to be hereafter designated will
be sent immediately to various central points
within the State for the purpose of recruit-
ing the volunteers. The recruits will be
rendezvoused at Salt Lake City as soon as
possible before May 5, 1898, when they will
be mustered into the service of the United
States.
	“In witness whereof I have hereunto set
my hand and caused the great seal of the
State of Utah to be affixed. Done in Salt
Lake City this 25th day of April, A. D.
1898.
“HEBER M. WELLS”
“By the Governor.
	“J. T. Hammond,
		“Secretary of State.”


