OBJECTS AND AIMS OF THE SOCIETY.
	PATRIOTISM is to a certain extent an in-
herent quality. Yet it can be cultivated
and should be among the American people.
Our children should early be imbued with a
reverence and love for the divine constitu-
tion of our country given, as we believe it
was, to the founders by our Heavenly
Father. The name of this society, Daugh-
ters of the Revolution, suggests a variety of
thoughts.
	The “Daughters” from the time of the
landing of the Pilgrim Fathers have occu-
pied a prominent place in the building up of
this great country. While they were not
encouraged in filling positions of prominence
their quiet home influence was conducive
of making the greatest patriots and states-
men. We know that to a mother’s influence
is attributed the greatness of her sons, and
the Sons of America are great and noble.
	Our mothers have always been self-sacri-
ficing and devoted in their patriotism to
their beloved country. The struggles,
hardships and privations they have endured
can never be known in this world. Yet they
have always been satisfied and happy in
the knowledge that it was all for America,
“The land of the free, and the home of the
brave.”
	America, dear America! even now the
clouds are dark and threatening, but you will
triumph. Your noble sons and daughters
are willing to undergo any trials for you.
And our Father in heaven who has given
this continent as an inheritance to his chil-
dren will smile upon you in maintaining
everlasting freedom.
	Our aim is high. It is to imbue our sons
and daughters with the love of liberty and
unity which are the greatest blessings
vouchsafed a nation. Our object is to study
the divine institutions of our country. To
make ourselves familiar with the history of
our country and with the lives of our great
men and women.
	In fact our object is to be in close touch
with everything American, and to inculcate
in the minds and hearts of our children
such a love for country that never will a
foreign nation be able to withstand the
bravery and humanity of the sons and
daughters of this fair land, America.
