	PRESIDENT M. ISABELLA HORNE at-
tended the Relief Society conference of
Davis Stake held at Centerville, April 28.
	PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS and
Mrs. Emily S. Richards attended the Re-
lief Society conference of Utah Stake held
at Pleasant Grove on the 17th of April.
	SISTERS ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON and
Margaret A. Caine, also Elder L. John Nut-
tall attended the Relief Society conference
of Sevier Stake held at Richfield April 22.
Sister Stevenson remained ten days and
visited the Stake in company with Presi-
dent Elizabeth Bean and other sisters.
	THE general secretary of the Relief
Society is desirous of getting the name of
each Society that owns a house or granary
or both, in order to know exactly how
many there are who have such buildings of
their own. The general report only esti-
mates this class of property with real estate.
Please write these particulars to this office.
	THE presidents of the several Stake or-
ganizations of the Relief Society are ur-
gently requested to send as soon as possible
a letter stating the time of holding their
quarterly conferences in their respective
Stakes. State the days of the week and
days of the month, also the name of the
place or places where such conferences are
to be held and the hour of meeting during
this coming year up to April 1899. Ad-
dress the letters to the secretary, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, office of the “Woman’s Exponent,”
Templeton, Salt Lake City. The dates etc.
of all these conferences will be published as
soon as received at this office.
	THE dispatches bring news of the
Mother’s Congress now in session at Wash-
ington and to which four at least Utah wo-
men are in attendance. Hannah Sorenson,
Augusta W. Grant and Hattie B. Harker
Salt Lake City, and Delia Booth of Provo.
The “Peace Flag” made of three stripes of
white, purple and yellow satin was con-
spicuous on the stage at the Congress. In
the center piece is a shield shaped piece of
white satin bearing a dove and olive branch.
Within the shield are clasped hands and be-
low it a ribbon scroll on which are the
words “Pro Concordia Labor.” We see
by the telegrams that Mrs. Ellen A. Rich-
ardson of Boston, president of the George
Washington Memorial Association of Wo-
men, is a speaker at the Congress of
Mothers.
	SEVERAL women missionaries have been
called during the present year to assist in
the work of spreading the Gospel in the
fields of labor abroad. In commenting up-
on the fact it has been stated these were
the first that were ever sent in this capacity,
but the facts are a number of women in this
Church have been set apart to go at differ-
ent periods, most of them to serve with
their husbands. We have a long list of
names of the women who have served faith-
fully in the past as also those who are now
absent. The countries to which women 
have been sent are Europe (including Scan-
dinavia, Germany and Switzerland) Great
Britain, Chili, Sandwich, Society and Tonga
Islands, Samoa, New Zealand, Australia,
Canada and many parts of the United
States. About a dozen of these sisters
have gone since the conference in April.
At another time we may publish the names
of those who have been sent at different times.

[Column 2]
	A NEW book recently issued from the
office of the Juvenile Instructor is entitled
“Life Sketches” and is by Aurelia S.
Rogers. It is very interesting and especial-
ly so to those who love the Gospel and who
know the history and experiences of those
who embraced the faith in an early day, and
journeyed westward with the Saints from
place to place. Mrs. Rogers tells the inci-
dents of her life while in her father’s house
and subsequently graphically, and many
good lessons may be learned by our young
people from its pages. The book contains
very good cuts of Elder Orson Spencer, the
writer’s father, also of herself and her sis-
ter, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson. Every Church
organization should have one in its library,
and all the Latter-day Saints in buying
books for the home should include this
valuable book in the purchase. It is well
worth the price, 75cts. per copy. The book
presents a nice appearance outside, is printed
in clear type and contains 333 pages of read-
ing matter. It is pretty generally known
among the people that it was Mrs. Rogers
who originated the idea of the Primary
which has developed into such a spiritual
method of teaching the children.


