LAURA FITZGERALD NEBEKER.
	In this city on Monday Feb. 7th last, a faithful
mother in Israel, Sister Laura Fitzgerald Nebeker,
departed this life. She was a native of Pennsyl-
vania, a pioneer of Utah and a faithful consistent
Latter-day Saint. Few persons combine intense
spirituality and practical ideas of life to the de-
gree she did. Her faith in the Gospel and its 
promises was unswerving, and in matters of prin-
ciple she was most uncompromising. In such
matters her acquaintances always knew where to

[Column 2]
look for “Mother Nebeker.” For years she was
a member of the Relief Society of her ward, ever 
since it was first organized, and as one of its 
teachers was ever zealous and active in its affairs,
till failing strength prevented her. She was a
subscriber of the “Exponent” and much enjoyed
reading its pages until physical weakness pre-
vented. She was ever earnest in teaching her
children the principles of the Gospel, and on her
death bed she bore an impressive testimony to
its truth, and fervently urged them to follow her in
obeying its requirements, and to lay hold on its 
promises. Her mental faculties were clear up to  
her last sleep, which merged into death.
		CARRY SMITH, Sec. 22nd ward R.S.
ELIZA CARNNAGE BARNETT. 
	With loving remembrance we r[-]cord the death 
of our aged and respected sister, Eliza Carnnage
Barnett, who departed this life Feb. 12, 1898, at
the age of seventy-eight years. She was at the
home of her daughter, Emma Wright, who lives
near Ogden. She was born in Staffordshire,
England in 1820; was married to John W Barnett
in Birmingham, England, in 1840, joined the
Church soon after and came with her husband
and family to America in 1854. They stopped in
Philadelphia for five years, where the Elders were
always made welcome. They came to Richmond,
Cache Co., in 1863 where they spent the remainder
of their lives. Her husbacd died in 1878.
	When the Relief Society was organized in 1868
Sister Barnett was chosen and set apart as second
counselor to the president, which office she faith-
fully filled a number of years. She was the
mother of eleven children, ten girls and one boy,
eight of whom are dead. She had fifty-one
grandchildren, fifty-two great grandchildren and
one great great grandchild. The funeral services
over the remains were held in the Richmond
meeting house Feb. 15, 1898.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss and faithful
performance of all duties, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends in their great loss. Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded
in the Relief Society record, a copy presented to
the family and another sent to the “Woman's Ex-
ponent” for publication.
Verse by Hannah Brower:
	Sister Barne[-]t thou hast left us,
		Gone to join that lovely choir,
	Of thy kindred gone before thee,
		Far beyond the world of care.
				JULIA PETTY,
				LYDIA PURNHAM,
				ELIZA C HOBSON.
						Committee.
ELIZA EMMA THOMAS.
	With loving remembrance we record the death
of Sister Eliza Emma Thomas, who departed this
life March 8, 1898, at Richmond, Cache Co. She
was the daughter of Samuel and Phebe Adams,
was born in Rounds, Northamptonshire, England,
joined the Church in the same place, came to
Utah in 1868 and was married to Martin Thomas
January 9, 1871, in Ogden, Utah. The family came 
to Richmond soon after and Sister Thomas held
the position of teacher in the Relief Society for
a number of years, doing a great amount of good
and always willing to help the sick and destitute.
She leaves a husband, eight children, six grand-
children and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss, and readi-
ness at all times to give a helping hand, there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends. Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded 
in the Relief Society record, a copy sent to the 
bereaved husband and another sent to the
“Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
	These verses were composed upon the death of
Sister Thomas by Hannah Brower:
	Gently sleeping is our mother
		Eliza Thomas loved and fair.
	Taken from this scene of action,
		To her Heavenly Parents care.

	Mother thou went kind and gentle,
		Tender, patient, good and true.
	Thou hast won the hearts of many,
		And a crown thou hast in view.

[Column 3]
	Left thy husband, sons and daughters
		On the weary earth below,
	But thou art gone to join the ransomed,
		And thy robes are pure as snow.

	Mother we expect to meet thee 
		When we do the work begun, 
	And we hope thy kind examp[-]e,
		Will become a beacon sun. 
				JULIA PETTY,
				LYDIA BURNHAM.
				ELIZA C. HOBSON,
						Committee.


