READ AT THE UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS
CLUB APRIL 30, 1898.
	BEFORE me in my mind’s eye I have a
perfect picture of Miss Willard as I saw her
day after day in the President’s place at the
National Council of Women in Washington
in the month of February 1891. The pic-
ture is a beautiful one, of a woman who
knew exactly how to conduct a meeting of
thousands of women congregated together
for mutual helpfulness. Her very presence
gave one the idea of her rare qualities in
dealing with people as well as subjects. She


[Column 1]
knew how to say the right thing at the
proper time and to make it eloquently per-
suasive and convincing. In fact she im-
pressed one as a born leader of people and
of active forces. A closer acquaintance
with this brave woman confirmed these
views of her whole-souled character and
her abundant versatility in entertaining and
holding an audience however numerous or
of whatever variety of faiths or views.
	I had met her on two or three occasions
previously and had grown somewhat famil-
iar with her voice and manner. But even
before I had ever even seen her I had form-
ed my idea of her from the description given
me by Dr. Pratt (our honored president.)
She had spoken to me in glowing terms of
Miss Willard and had made me feel through
her an admiration one seldom feels for an
unknown woman. When Miss Willard
visited Utah afterwards I called upon her
with Dr. Pratt who had met her in the
East and had given me my first view of the
woman, and I often say I had fallen in love
with her before I ever saw her. 
	Dr. Pratt and myself went to hear Miss
Willard in the M. E. Church and we were
both fascinated, so to speak, with her
sparkling personality; then meeting her in
Washington, president of the National
Council, I became deeply interested in the
woman herself—seeing her every day for an
entire week, morning, afternoon and eve-
ning presiding with grace and dignity over
such an august assembly of educated, intel-
ligent women from all parts of the United
States and foreign countries also, one ob-
tained a good idea of her real self and her
knowledge of the world and the vexed
and varied questions that came up from time
to time for consideration.
	I beg pardon for personalities but meeting
Miss Willard since then in Chicago at the
time of the World’s Fair and in Washing-
ton in 1895—at the second triennial session
of the National Council—nothing has ever
caused me to think or feel that she was not
a royal, loyal, womanly woman, adorned
with purity, modesty and all that make up
the sum of loveliness in womanhood.
	She lived unselfishly and self-sacrificingly
for the good of others, the uplifting and bet-
terment of humanity; beloved by all who
knew her and who were associated with her
in her home and in her public career. Mrs.
Mary Lowe Dickinson said of her ap-
propriately:
	“It was indeed a prismatic, many-sided
life. And whether we think of her as the
prairie-child, as daughter, sister, student,
teacher, orator, leader, reformer, it was on
every side a white life, facing the sun and
absorbing and reflecting the light.”
	Frances E. Willard, president of the
World’s Woman’s Temperance Union, (said
to be the most numerous organization of
women,) who died on February 19, 1898—
was of strictly New England parentage,
her forefathers came and settled in Concord,
Mass., about fifteen years after the landing
of the Pilgrims. Major Simon Willard of
Kent, England, founder of the N. E. branch,
was a man of great force of character and of
distinguished public service. Miss Willard’s
great grandfather, Rev. Elijah Willard,
was forty years a pastor in Dublin, New
Hampshire, and his son, Oliver Atherton
Willard, was a pioneer, first in Wheelock,
Vt., and later in Ogden, Monroe Co., N.
Y., where he died leaving to his widow,
Catherine Lewis Willard, the rearing of a
young family in a country almost a wilder-

[Column 2]
ness. Josiah the eldest son, the father of
Frances Willard, grew to maturity in these
surroundings and at twenty-six years of age
married Mary Thompson Hill, born in Dan-
ville, Vt. Frances was the fourth of five
children born to them, two of whom died
in infancy before her birth. She seems to
have inherited many of the best gifts and
powers of her parents and ancestry. She
was born in Churchville, near Rochester,
N. Y., September 28, 1839, but her parents
removed to Oberlin, Ohio, before she was
two years of age that the father might pur-
sue intellectual studies; they lived in Ober-
lin five years, both parents improving the
advantages and opportunities afforded them
of study and culture; but Mr. Willard’s
health demanded open air and exercise and
he removed with his family in May, 1846 to
Janesville, Wisconsin, and settled on a
beautiful farm, half prairie and half forest
on the banks of Rock river—they called
their abode “Forest Home.” Miss Willard’s
mother was poetical in her nature but also
philosophical—a woman of lofty sentiments
and well calculated to be a sort of mentor
and companion to her children in a place
where they were mostly dependent upon
their own resources for society. The father
was near to nature’s heart in a vivid fash-
ion and life was to the children intellectual
and healthful, enjoying entire freedom from
fashionable restraint, and Miss Willard’s
early education was in the home from her
parents. Her first teacher was a graduate
from Yale College who had been a classical
tutor in Oberlin. At the age of seventeen
she was sent with her sister Mary to Mil-
waukee Female College, and later she was
transferred to Northwestern Female College
in Evanston, Ill., where the parents re-
moved in the autumn of the same year that
the home circle might not be broken up.
Miss Willard graduated with Valedictory
honor from that institution in 1859—and
afterwards taught sixteen years in six dif-
ferent localities beginning in district schools
and her pupils numbering in all about two
thousand. After district and public school
teaching she taught in Kankakee Academy
and Pittsburgh Female College, Evanston,
Ill., and was afterwards preceptress in
Genesee Wesleyan Seminary, Dima, N. Y.,
and was president of the Ladies’ College,
and later the Woman’s College of the North-
western University of which she was dean
and professor of aesthetics. She was a firm
believer in co education and dealt with the
unsolved problem in its earlier stages with
hopefulness and skill.
	The Chicago fire swept away a large part
of the financial aid which had been promised
to the college, and the new arrangement
led to complications in the government of
the Woman’s College which rendered it
impossible for Miss Willard to carry out her
plans and she resigned in June 1874.
	From that time she became stirred to the
soul with the temperance crusade in Ohio
and during that winter she heard the divine
call to her life-work. Mrs. Mary A. Liver-
more wished her to join the crusade and
gave her all possible encouragement. While
in New York City in 1874—she had a letter
from Louisa S. Rounds of Chicago, saying,
“It has come to me as I believe from the
Lord that you ought to be president. We
are a little band without money or exper-
ience, but with strong faith. If you will
come, there will be no doubt of your elec-
tion.” Miss Willard turned from most
attractive offers in her profession and going

[Column 3]
West, within a week was made president of
the Chicago Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union.
	It is said Miss Willard in those early
years of her work did not regard pecuniary
compensation and often had no money to
pay for noonday lunch, consequently went
without it, and walked miles because she
had not five cents to pay for a ride on the
street cars. She said she found that period
of her life more blessed than any—baptized
as she was in suffering afterward her field
began to widen.
	A few women came to her aid in estab-
lishing a Gospel meeting in lower Farwell
hall for the benefit of the intemperate. In
this way scores and hundreds of wicked
men were reformed and her Gospel
talks were popular and successful. They
were more to her than the public addresses
she had made to grand audiences a few
years previous, the fact that wicked men
wept and prayed and repented was the com-
pensation she most desired. She turned
away from the attraction of cultivated soci-
ety and scholarly themes and labored in
philanthropic interests entirely.
	From the day of small things the society
grew under her guidance and management,
and the Chicago Woman’s Temperance
Union built the Woman’s Temperance
Temple, and established the Woman’s
Temperance Publication Association, which
scatters its pages of temperance literature
over the world.
	After some time she was urged to accept
and was nominated to the presidency of the
first National Temperance Convention, but
refused and was then elected the corres-
ponding secretary which she accepted, and
besides the large amount of writing spoke
in Chautauqua New England and Middle
States summer camps.
	It was in 1876 while engaged in Bible
study and prayer she was led to the convic-
tion that she ought to speak for woman’s
ballot as a protection to the home from the
tyranny of drink, and in the ensuing
autumn in the national convention in
Newark, N. Y., disregarding the earnest
pleadings of conservative friends, she de-
clared her convictions in her first suffrage
speech.
	It was Miss Willard who originated the
motto, “For God and Home and Native
Land”—first adopted by the Chicago Union,
then the Illinois State Union and became
that of the National, and in 1891 in Boston,
Mass., was adapted to the World’s Union
by changing native to every and reading,
“For God and Home and Every Land.”
The two newspapers Miss Willard assisted
in founding, Our Union in New York
and the Signal in Illinois, were finally
merged into one and called the Union Sig-
nal and is now one of the most widely cir-
culated papers in the world.
	To cover the ground of all the work even
in outline done by this remarkable woman
would occupy a whole evening.
	In 1881 Miss Willard made a tour of the
Southern States which reconstructed her
views on many important questions and did
much to remove conservative prejudice and
sectional opposition. During 1882 she com-
pleted her plan of visiting and organizing
in every state and territority in the United
States and of presenting the cause in every
town and city that had reached a popula-
tion of ten thousand. She visited the Paci-
fic Coast, California and British Columbia
and covered more than 25,000 miles of toil


[Column 1]
some travel, and was enabled to meet the 
National Convention in Detroit, Michigan,
in October 1883 to celebrate the first de-
cade of temperance work rejoicing over
complete organizations of the Woman’s Temperance Union in the 48 sub-divisions
of the United States.
	Miss Willard took charge of the work
when the White Cross movement was ad-
opted as a feature of the Union—this de-
veloped more rapidly than any part of the
work—thousands and tens of thousands of
signatures were obtained for the better
legal protection of women and girls and
presented to Congress; through these deter-
mined efforts legislative action was secured
in almost every state and territory. On 
the Pacific Coast Miss Willard became deep-
ly impressed by the misery consequent upon
the opium habit and succeeded in sending
Mrs. Mary A. Leavitt out as a missionary
to the Sandwich Islands, Australia, Japan,
China, India, Africa and Europe, she was
absent eight years—making hosts of friends
and winning them to the ranks.
	The British Woman’s Temperance Union 
had been previously organized and Mrs.
Margaret Lucas, the sister of John Bright
(and afterwards first president of the
World’s Christian Temperance Union) was
present at the National Convention at Min-
neapolis, Minn., in 1886. Her reception was
magnificent—the convention rising in
groups to honor her—first the crusaders,
then the New England States, then the
Middle States, after these the Western and
Pacific Coast and last the Southern, while
English and American flags waved from
the platform and all joined in singing “God
save the Queen.” The Dominion Wo-
man’s Christian Temperance Union in Can-
ada has been another powerful organization
and now thirty-five nations are united in
the World’s Christian Temperance Union,
and the wearers of the white ribbon num-
ber three hundred thousand—half of the
women are residents of the United States.
	Miss Willard was reelected president of the
National Union every year after 1879, but
in 1887 she was elected president of the 
World’s Christian Union and has been re-
elected biennially ever since. Besides the
missionary and other work we must men-
tion the monster Polygott petition against
legalizing the alcohol and opium traffic
which has been translated into many lan-
guages and hundreds of dialects and active-
ly circulated in Great Britain, Switzerland,
Scandinavia, India, China, Japan, Ceylon,
Australia, Sandwich Islands, Chili, Canada
and the United States, and signed by a
million women. The president of the
British Woman’s Temperance Union, Lady
Henry Somerset, is vice president of the
World’s Christian Temperance Union and
has been a close friend of Miss Willard’s for
many years. It has been said of Miss Wil-
lard that she was “the most widely known
and best beloved woman in America.”
	There are othor countries in which Miss
Willard has traveled besides England and
America where her name is a familiar one.
She has traversed Ireland, Denmark, Ger-
many, Holland, Belgium, France, Austria,
Turkey in Europe; andAsia, Greece, Palestine
and Egypt, and made herself rich in knowl-
edge of these countries. She has contrib-
uted thousands of articles to periodicals,
journals and magazines and the Union Sig-
nal owes much to her pen as editor in chief.
Her books are “Nineteen Beautiful Years,”
“Hints and Helps in Temperance Work,”
“How to Win,” “Woman in the Pulpit,”

[Column 2]
“Woman and Temperance,” “Glimpses of
Fifty Years,” “A Classic Town” and “A
Young Journalist,” the last was written in
conjunction with Lady Somerset; as one of
the committee of the Temperance Congress
at the Columbian Exposition she rendered a
most helpful work to humanity. During
the last few years since her health failed so
much from overwork she has lived much of
the time with Lady Somerset in her beauti-
ful and magnificent home in England, a
congeniality between these two women has
held them fast in a sublime and sacred
friendship.
	Lady Somerset says in her article in the
North American Review: “We do not for-
get in England that to no other philan-
thropist did we ever give so warm a wel-
come. The great meeting at Exeter Hall
that was held in her honor was probably the
most representative gathering that has ever
assembled to greet any great man or wo-
man on that historic platform, and we are
glad to know that we laid laurels at her
feet while yet the homage could bring a
smile to her face and words of praise could
still rejoice her heart.”
	Frances Willard felt that a woman owed 
it to all other women to live as bravely, as
helpfully and as grandly as she could.
