Zion.” Prayer by Lydia D. Alder. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice.” President Horne
announced that Sister Zina Bull, our secre-
tary, had another appointment and called
on Sister Lydia D. Alder to act as secretary.
Minutes of the last meeting were read and
accepted.
	President Horne said it was refreshing
to meet with sisters who were striving to
serve God. We should look at the signs of
the times and read the prophecies. God
has set His hand to gather His servants to-
gether. He called Joseph the prophet,
through whom the Gospel was restored to
the earth. God kept this country for the
Saints, that they might be isolated while
His judgments pass over the world. “My
heart flows with gratitude to our Father
more and more every day. President Can-
non said the Lord might delay His coming
if we were not ready. Are we ready? Are
we prepared? if so the day of rejoicing is
near at hand. I examine my heart to see
if I am humble, if I am waiting for His
coming. These days are the same as in the
days of Noah, marrying and giving in mar-
riage even unto the day that the Lord sent
the deluge. Are we living as becomes
Saints? Do we pray often? Do we ap-
preciate the blessings He has bestowed upon
us? Do we uphold the authorities? God
set them there. Do we love one another?
We need unity and God will pour out. His
blessings upon us. War seems inevitable
in our land today. It has to come whether
we want it or not. Things are moving
more swiftly than even I can realize. Faith
seems to be waning among the Saints, let
us ask God’s blessing in what we do.
Those that overcome will sit down in our
Father’s kingdom. It is not the mission of
the Latter-day Saints to shed blood. When
the call was made for the five hundred for
the Mormon Battalion President Young said
if they responded not one should be slain,
nor should they shed blood.” Urged the
sisters to have their patriarchal blessings,
she read her’s only a few days ago that was
given by Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and it
was such a blessing to her.
	Sister Waterfall said she prized the teach-
ings she received at these meetings, spoke
of her patriarchal blessing and bore her tes-
timony to the truth of the Gospel. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder spoke on the words
“They also serve who only stand and wait,”
and bore her testimony.
	Sister Robinson also bore a strong testi-
mony and desired to be faithful.
	Sister Carrington bore testimony to the
work of the Lord and thanked Him for the
Gospel.
	Sister Bullock felt overjoyed to feel the
spirit of this meeting, felt to praise God for
all His blessings, testified to the answering
of prayers and told of a dream she had
which comforted her. Singing “Guide us
O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Two or three sisters bore their testimony
and Sister J. C. Howe said, “May the Spir-
it of God never leave us to ourselves. We
have listened to the testimonies of the young
the aged and the middle-aged. On the 6th
of April forty-nine years ago, I entered the
waters of baptism. My parents were good
and lived up to the knowledge they had.

[Column 2]
feel grateful to them for the manner in
which they taught me the scriptures. The
Gospel is more, precious to me now than
ever, the world and its pleasures will all
pass away, but the love of God endureth for
ever. Charity covereth a multitude of sins,
thinketh no evil, but is altogether lovely.”
	Sister Rogers said she had always wanted
to come to the 14th ward meetings. “I do
not live here, but I feel the good influence
in this meeting. I feel to bless the young
sister who spoke of her affliction and trusted
her heavenly Father.” Bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, desired to be
faithful and prepared, spoke of the Temple
duties and thought we had better be ready
before the call came.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards also spoke
of. the wedding garments. If we have the
Spirit of the Lord we will have our wed-
ding garments ready. Spoke of the Spirit
of God in the Temple and said it is possible
to have the Spirit of the Lord that we will
make no mistakes, even in our temporal
affairs. This would enable us never to
make mistakes. Asked the blessing of the
Lord on all the sisters.
	Sister Eliza Reddington said she had at-
tended these meetings for years but had
never before risen, but desired to be faithful.
	Sister Fletcher said she went to the hos-
pital for treatment, and some brethren
blessed her, said she should be calm and the
angels should overlook the operation, said
she had these blessings for her good. She
wanted to serve the Lord and keep His
commandments and desired the faith of the
sisters. Since she went into the Temple
she was better, her arm was better. Her
prayers had been answered, she desired to
serve God and that her children might also.
	President Horne said God would bless all
who had testified this afternoon. Announc-
ed the Relief Society conference on Tues-
day 5, in the Assembly hall at 10 a. m. and
2 p. m., also the conference on Wednesday
6.  Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
Doxology. Benediction Sister Julia Howe.
