TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
	THE General Federation of Woman’s
Clubs is an organization which embraces 29
State Federations of women’s clubs, which
number in membership 1,823 souls; and
over 500 other clubs are also united in the
membership of the General Federation.
The individual membership of these clubs
varies from 25 to 1,000 women. The larg-
est State Federation of women is that of
New York, with 25,000 women as members;
Massachusetts and Illinois rank next, the
former with 1,500, the latter with 1,300.
Ohio has about 7’000 women members of
the State Federation. It is estimated that
the General Federation has about 250,000
women in membership.
	The members of the General Federation
would condemn a war which was under-
taken for aggrandizement or for territorial
acquisition, as the Federation is founded on 
principles of fraternity and reciprocity; but
its members recognize the fact that this
nation is the vanguard of all Republics,
must stand alone for the cause of humanity,
for the cause of the weak against the strong,
for right as against might. We feel that
you represent this cause. Therefore, as a
Federation we tender you our sympathy,
and express to you our confidence in your
wisdom and your devotion to the highest 
good of this dear country of ours.
	While most of the members of the Feder-
ation represent no vote on subjects of nation-
al politics, we do represent great influence.
On us war will fall heaviest, for we must
give our sons, and during and after the
war, must help to repair the ravages and
losses and mitigate the sufferings which
such a terrible event must inevitably bring
in its train. Therefore, we have the best
right to an expression of our opinion. We
pledge you, while it is a question of human-
ity, that you may count on the normal sup-
port of this organization.
	I am, with sentiments of the highest con-
sideration, yours truly,
			ELLEN M. HENROTIN.
President of the General Federation of Wo-
men’s Clubs.


Mrs. Shillington, mother of Harry Shil-
lington, who went down with the Maine,
was shown Mrs. Henrotin’s letter and asked
if she thought it spoke for all the mothers
of America. Mrs. Shillington could not
read any further than the line, “On us war
will fall the heaviest, for we must give our
sons.”
	“I’ve already given one of mine,” she
said, “my Harry. But with one boy buried
in the mud of Havana Harbor, and another
on board a United States cruiser that may
be the first to be sunk in case of war, I have
no appeal to make to the President for
peace. I am a mother, and I have suffered as
perhaps not many of the mothers who have
joined in Mrs. Henrotin’s appeal have suf-
fered, but I do not shrink at the mention of
war.  
	“We must think of our own, and heaven
knows no one could have thought more of
her boy than I did of the one who died on
the Maine; but there are mothers in Cuba
who must be thought of—mothers who have
seen their little ones starve to death by their
sides. Their homes have been destroyed
and families sundered and men, women and
children allowed to die like cattle. I have
to think of those things. Of course I know
the money interests of the country are en-
titled to a full share of consideration, but I
believe too, in honor. I believe it, and I
taught it to my children, and I think they
learned the lesson, for the officers of the
Maine have written to me that my Harry
never swerved from the strict line of his
duty. He never shrank from what was
right, and neither will I, and I can give my
other boy to my country, if need be, as I
did my oldest.
	“Charlie sailed on the government cruiser
Alliance today. His last letter to me said
that now he had but one thought, and that
was revenge. You see, he is only a boy of
seventeen and the death of his brother filled
him. with hatred for those who caused it. I
do not feel about it as he does. I do not feel
any spirit of revenge. I only want to see
the honor of the country vindicated, so that
my boy who is a sailor on board a United
States ship, can walk the streets of a for-
eign city and feel that the blue uniform that
he wears is respected, and that if he dies
his government will demand atonement and
that he is something more than the iron
guns or the plating on the side of the ves-
sel that can be left buried in the muddy
bottom of a harbor and forgotten.
	“I have no criticism to make on the wo-
men who have joined in Mrs. Henrotin’s
petition. They want to be spared the loss
of their loved ones, and I pray God that
they may be. But He should let them suf-
fer as I have suffered, if it is for the sake of
the dead and dying in Cuba; if it is for the
sake of our country and her flag, and for
the sake of the boys who were killed on the
Maine, I can only say to them as I have
aid to myself a hundred and a thousand
times a day, ‘It had to be; it had to be.
There was no other way.’”


