TESTIMONIAL.

	ON Monday April 11, the sisters of the
Relief Society of the 22nd ward met in their
Society hall for the purpose of presenting
Sister Olive Kimball with a token of the
love and respect in which they held her,
previous to her departure to Arizona with
her husband, Elder Andrew Kimball, to
take charge of the mission there.
	After meeting had been opened in the
usual manner, Sister Rachel Whipple, presi-
dent of the Society, made some very en-
couraging remarks, blessing them on their
mission and wishing them God speed. Sis-
ter Emma Brown then presented them with
a gold pen and souvenir silver spoon with
the Temple engraved inside the bowl.
Elder Andrew Kimball gave a very grati-
fying description of his mission which he
had just commenced. Sister Jennie Hyde
paid a loving tribute of affection towards
them. Sister Elizabeth Nebeker spoke
feelingly of the duty they were undertaking,
wishing them every success, after which an
impromptu program was rendered. Mrs.
Nellie Druce Pugsley rendered several musi-
cal pieces in her own beautiful style, after
which the sisters enjoyed a sumptuous re-
past, making a very enjoyable time.
							[COM.]


Save Your Money!
And when you get a do[-]lar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

