A MOTHER'S DESPAIR.

	It is asserted that the laws are more than
just to the sex which has no voice in making
them. The assurance is reiterated that "women
have no grievance." The San Francisco
Chronicle of May 8 tells the following story:
	A painful scene occurred in Judge Lawler's
court yesterday, growing out of the removal of
a child from its mother's custody.
	On Saturday last a writ of habeas corpus
was granted to David Reulein, commanding
Mrs Anna Clarke to produce her son, Charles
Henry Clarke, aged four years. in court.
The petition for the writ stated that Reulein
and his wife, Kate, were the lawful guardians
of the child, and that he had been forcibly
and illegally removed from their custody by
Mrs. Clarke and Rebecca Herringer, her
mother. In a suit filed on the same day, Mr.
Clarke asserted that she had consented to the
adoption of her son by the Reuleins some
months ago,through fear of personal violence
at the hand of her husband, James P. Clarke,
a brother of Mrs. Reuleins.
	When the case was called yesterday, Attorney
M. Cooney, representing the mother, asked for
a continuance, basing his request on a physi-
cian's certificate, that his client was in such
a delicate condition that it would be danger-
ous for her to leave her home or to be sub-
jected to any undue excitement. Judge Lawler,
however, denied the request, and Mr. Cooney
dispatched a messenger for his client and had
her brought into court. Testimony was
taken which showed that, while the Reuleins
had legally adopted the child fifteen months
ago, he had ever since continued in the custody
of his mother and that she had provided for
his support. An attempt was made by Mrs.
Clarke's attorney to show that the adoption
paper introduced was invalid. Henry I.
Knowalsky, Reulein's attorney, objected, and
Judge Lawler sustained the objection. He
further denied a motion to dismiss the writ,
and despite the protest of Mr. Cooney, decided
the child should be returned to its guardian.
	The bailiff of the court attemped to enforce
this order, but the mother clung to her child
with a strength born of desperation, and re-
sisted every effort to take him from her.
So heart-rending were her cries that the bailiff
at length desisted. Another deputy-sheriff


was sent for, and while the court waited, the
mother strained the child to her heart and
sobbed out in her grief such disconnected
sentences as, "They shall not take him from
me! I will go to jail first! He is my baby!
I suffered for him, and now they would steal
him from me!"
	The child also sobbed, and there were very
few dry eyes in the court room. When help
arrived another vain attempt was made to
wrench the boy from his mother's arms, and
again the officers had to desist. Judge Lawler
tried to induce Mrs. Clarke to give up the
child peaceably. She refused, however, and
again the deputy-sheriffs, obeying the judge's
order, as he hastily left the court-room, seized
the distracted woman, and while two of them
held her tighty, a third person seized the
screaming boy and bore him from the room.
	"My baby—oh, my baby!" shrieked Mrs.
Clarke, hysterically, as she fell from the
officer's arms to the floor. Again and again
the heart rending cry was uttered, but it fell
on ears that were deaf to her supplications.
For fully ten minutes the poor mother refused
to be pacified but sobbed and moaned as
though her heart was broken. Those about
the court room withdrew and left her alone
with her friends and her grief. She was finally
sufficiently calmed to permit her parents to
lead her from the court-room and started
towards home.


