XXIII.

	There's One above who watches o'er us all,
		Who even hears the lonely raven's cry,
	He notes each little sparrow if it fall,
		And to the humble He is ever nigh.
	
	To Mrs. S—y's question Hepsie knew not
what answer to make she was so completely
taken by surprise, she felt as though she had
turned to stone. The last hope seemed gone;
Mrs. S. had told her she was not dependent
that provision had been made for her until
Spring and it was not yet Christmas time. She
sat like a statue. Mrs. S. did not repeat the
question then and Hepsie did not even ask an
explanation. She saw preparations were being
made during the next few days, and finally
when nearly everything had been packed up
Mrs. S. ventured to speak again.
	"I'll pack up your things Mrs. Harvey" she
said "we are going very soon and you'll have
to go too, for we can't think of leaving you
here, the city is likely to be burned by the
mob."
	Slowly and deliberately as if each word cost
a great effort Hepsie answered. "No Mrs. S.
I cannot go with you and leave Nauvoo; I
shall stay here if I die in the street. I have
left all that was near and dear to gather with
the Saints, and I will not forsake my religion

[Column 2]

now not for anything that could be offered
me."
	"But you cannot work, you have no money,
you are too proud to ask assistance it is useless
to remonstrate you must come with us, we can-
not refund the means your husband invested
in the business, for it is all gone."
	Hepsie waited breathlessly until Mrs. S.
finished the sentence and then in the most posi-
tive tone and manner said, "leave my few
things out, I cannot go I prefer to die."
	Years afterwards when the young wife re-
called the scenes through which she passed at
that particular time, she wondered at the cour-
age which carried her through and felt per-
fectly sure that a power which she did not
then comprehend, sustained her in the midst of
trials and difficulties such as few so young are
left to endure alone.
	That night before retiring Mrs. S. had finished
packing bureaus, trunks and boxes, leaving
only the necessaries for the breakfast; she
spoke to Hepsie again in the most pleading
manner, "Let me put up your things too, I feel
very tenderly for you, I never have had a
daughter and you are so weak and nervous,
and the boys promised your husband to take
care of you until you could teach; come with
us I'll do all I can to make you comfortable,
and you can get good wages as a teacher in
Iowa as soon as you are well, do come with us
I can't leave you here alone." It was all to
no purpose Hepsie was determined; she never
forgot that night, sleep she could not; she re-
alized that Mrs. S. as well as the boys had the
spirit of apostasy; she had already had an ex-
perience of that kind with Harold's mother,
and she felt that she could face anything
rather than that, she prayed fervently that the
way might be opened up for her to escape
from this trial. She looked out into the de-
serted streets; all was quiet; the stars were
shining out clear in the midnight sky. "What
shall I do, where shall I go?" she exclaimed
aloud. And instantly as it were a feeling of
peace came over her, and she became calm;
though she never closed her eyes in sleep until
the grey dawn of morning when from sheer
exhaustion she fell into a profound sleep.
	Mrs. S. was greatly troubled, and rising
early she talked over the matter with the boys.
"Mrs. Harvey will not go over the river with
us boys, she will not leave Nauvoo, she is a
thorough little saint, she believes implicitly in
the Prophet Joseph and in Brigham Young,
such devotion I have never seen in one so
young, my heart aches for her, what will be-
come of her left here alone? Is there anything
we can do boys?" The young men looked
from one to the other, and finding no solution
to the question Ezekiel the eldest a lawyer of
some repute said, "Well mother leave her
something to eat, and I think after two or
three days she'll come to us." "No, she won't"
replied Charles, "Harold said when he went
away 'its no use asking my wife to go with
me, she would sooner die than give up her re-
ligion.'"
	"Its enough to make any one believe that
Mormonism is true," said Hezekiah the
younger. "And it is true," interposed the
mother. "Well suppose it is, we are as safe
over the river as we are here until the storms
are all past," said the eldest.
	When Hepsie rose in the morning Mrs. S.
repeated what had been said thinking Hepsie
might decide after all to go, but she remained


[Column 1]

firm as ever and no amount of persuasion or
entreaty could induce her to change her mind.
Hepsie knew not what she could do, but she
was as firm as the hills in her resolve to stay
in Nauvoo let what would come. The day
was a gloomy one. Mrs. S. was more tender
to Hepsie than ever, and several times Hepsie
felt great sobs in her throat that choked her
utterance, but she would not allow Mrs. S. or
the boys to know how she felt. "We are go-
ing to-night Mrs. H. we shall sleep at Montrose
and go on to our destination tomorrow. I do
not feel that it is prudent for you to remain
here alone,will you go to Mrs. J. if you are so
opposed to leaving the City, she is a fine
woman, a good Mormon and very well able to
give you a home." Hepsie could not speak
she was too full of sorrow. Encouraged by 
her silence Mrs. S. went on to say, "Mrs. J.
has an unmarried son, and she is very fond of
you, you'll marry again sometime, he's a nice
young man; my boys either of them would
gladly marry you I know that, before Mrs. S.
could say more Hepsie fairly shrieked "O, Mrs. S.
don't, you'll kill me if you talk like that!"
	Mrs. H. was now more than ever determined
to break up all communication with the family;
to be told almost in a breath that either of the
boys who had been associated with Harold had
ever had such thoughts about her was over-
powering. "Why should I struggle for life
when fate seems against me?" said Hepsie to
herself, "if death would only come to my
relief but no, I must face the world alone and
so totally unprepared."
	Mrs. S. felt she had said too much, and
strove to soothe and pacify the poor child. The
boys were away and towards evening Hepsie
partly regained her composure and at dusk
she went out a few moments for a walk and to
be alone; under the shining stars, and the clear
cold moon. She had always loved to gaze up-
on these beauteous orbs of night, and on this
particular night, she was more than ever im-
pressed with the glory and grandeur of the starry
heavens. Many thoughts passed through her
mind, which we have not space to record here,
but not for one moment did she lose her self-
possession, young and inexperienced as she was.
Remember gentle reader she was left entirely
alone, no relative, no friend, to whom she
could go. After strolling for a few moments
near the house she felt more calm and peace-
ful in her spirits, and concluded she would go
in and remain alone if the family carried out
their intention to cross the river that night,
In the hall she hesitated a moment thinking
she heard familiar voices, and on coming into
the dimly lighted and bare room, she saw and
heard two strange ladies conversing with Mrs.
S. They came towards her as she entered
with greetings but evidently much shocked to
see her so changed. She recognized them as
two of the sisters who had joined the company
of Saints in which she traveled at Albany N.
Y. on the way up to Nauvoo, they were both
from New Haven, Conn. After making some
inquiries as to her health the married lady said
"Mrs. H. we have come to offer you a home,
we heard that Mrs. S. was going to leave the
City and we knew that in  your delicate state,
you were not equal to any great change. We
are both of us anxious to have you." And
noticing that Mrs. H. was rather confused,
Mrs. F. explained still further. "We do not
want you to feel we offer you charity, we
sympathize with you because of your youth
and your loneliness." All this time the old
maid for such she was remained silent, and
Hepsie knew not what reply to make. Mrs.
S. came to her aid by saying "Mrs. Harvey
you'd better accept this offer for the present,
you're too ill to be alone, and I've been tell-
ing these ladies how much you need nurs-
ing and attention." This was the opportunity
for Miss B. she saw the hesitancy of Mrs. H.

[Column 2]

and she put forward a claim. "Mrs. F." she
said "would take you right home and as soon
as you are able you could teach the children
and do light sewing, but I want some one for
company, I'm all alone and I need society."
Mrs. Harvey took in both situations momen-
tarily. She remembered the two children of
Mrs. F. a boy and girl, and how unmanageable
they were on the journey, and she made up
her mind that she would go with Miss B.
if she went away at all. The ladies both pre-
sented their claims, and dependent as she was,
they both seemed anxious to secure her.
Finally she said as if to give them an opportu-
nity to take in all the situation, "I want you
to know beforehand that I am not able to wait
upon myself at all, and ague is still troub-
ling me, you see how thin I am, and it will
take me all this winter to recover I'm sure,
besides I am not fit for company I am too low-
spirited and melancholy myself." "I'll see to
that," said Miss B. "and wait upon you until
you are well,"—"and so would I," said Mrs.
F. "and would think it only a pleasure."
	Mrs. Harvey seemed unwilling to make the
choice seem selfish, so she said "I'll go with
Miss B. she needs me for company and I'll
come to you Mrs. F. when I am quite well,
you have both husband and children and Miss
B. has no one." Mrs. S. was sorry to part
from her, she loved her, and she admired her
spirit, and the courage she had shown in re-
maining with the saints. She called her
"honey" over and over and told Miss B. what
she must do for her, and how to nurse her up.
"I'll send the boys over with your things as
soon as they come in, they'll be awfully
disappointed to find you're gone," and Mrs. S.
who was a woman of years with bachelor sons,
actually cried at parting with Mrs. H. though
she had only been with her such a short
time.
	Who can picture the feelings of Hepsie
as she went out that night, though the place
had not been a home to her, it had been a
refuge, a shelter, the inmates had been most
kind and tender, now she was to go among
strangers again, this woman was a peculiar
type—Hepsie had noticed that when on their
journey to Nauvoo. She remembered how
much she had talked of money, and her queer
ways, and she wondered if she could endure
to live with her, and eat and sleep with her,
the three ladies went out together and as it
was but a few steps to Miss B's house they
were soon at the door.
	"I've bought these two houses Mrs. H. this
one I live in the other there is rented, I've
plenty of means, you need'nt worry while
you're with me, I took a real fancy to you on
the canal boat, when we were crossing York
state. You put me in mind of my sister
Elizabeth, she was just such another as you,
delicate, and full of romance, wrote verses and
so on; but come in and rest I know you're
tired, and she unlocked the door. "I'll say
good night now" said Mrs. F. "I live on
Temple hill you know, its rather a long walk,
would have been too much for you to-night
Mrs. Harvey, but I'll see you again soon, we're
both from one place you know Maria and I,
that is she lived in Bethany just out of New
Haven, but we were in the same branch."
	Almost as soon as Mrs. Harvey had taken
off her wraps, a knock at the door announced
the arrival of her trunks and other odd
things, Miss B. answered the door but
Hezekiah and Charley insisted on seeing Mrs.
Harvey. Miss B. told them she was tired
and would see them in the morning, but they
were persistent and finally Mrs. Harvey came
to the door and shook hands with them, wish-
ing them prosperity and happiness, and add-
ing "I shall never forget your mother, she has
been so good to me," It was rather an affect-
ing interview, this parting, and Hepsie felt

[Column 3]

now that she had parted not only from Harold,
but those who were his friends, and when she
closed the door after them, she felt such a
keen sense of loneliness, that she shivered from
her head to her feet with a nervous spasm.
	Miss B. had a great deal to say that night
in fact Hepsie thought she would never tire,
she was not like dear Mrs. S. trying to nurse
her up, but talked incessantly of herself and
her money, what she had lent to the Prophet
Joseph Smith and also to Brigham Young,
and Hepsie began to think she had come from
one Apostate to another.
	Finally tired of hearing only repinings she
aroused herself sufficiently to say "Well Miss
B. if you feel distressed about your money why
dont you have it refunded?" "O, as for that I
know its safe enough and I shall get a good
interest." Hepsie concluded it was her
disagreeable way of looking at things and
there and then conjectured that the old maid
had a sinister motive in taking her in. I
wonder what she should want me for, is it to
keep me until Harold comes back and she can
get money for boarding and waiting upon me,
she knows how generous hearted he is and that
he buys the most expensive things; but no, it
couldn't be that, and what can it be, perhaps
my similarity to her dead sister as she says,
and for my society, if for the latter I fear she
will be disappointed.
	Hepsie realized the difference between Miss
B. and the kind motherly care Mrs. S. had
given her from the first, she was shaking with
cold and excitement yet Miss B. made no effort
to warm her or administer sedatives; she lay
awake until morning thinking over her
miraculous escape for she had fully expected
to be left alone in the house, which at any
moment she might be compelled to leave with-
out a shelter to go to. Hepsie acknowledged
that night the goodness of her Father in heaven
in providing this temporary home, where she
might have food and a refuge until some other
change should come about. Ever after during
her life she felt assured that her guardian
angel was near on that occasion, and kept her
from yielding to the entreaties and arguments
of those who professed the utmost sympathy
for her lonely condition. She gave the Lord
the glory for she felt in herself that she had no
power only through Him. That night in
her prayer, she acknowledged the goodness of
God in her behalf though she said nothing to
Miss B. who had been the instrument in the
Lord's hands of giving her safety and repose.
	The early morning found her wide awake and
weak from nervous exhaustion, and Miss B.
wieh all her self-appreciation knew not what
to do. "Mrs. Harvey will you have a Dr.
called to prescribe for you. you are so ill and
weak?" "O, no" replied Hepsie "I have not
had a physician through all my illness only
Mrs. Billings, she has such faith, but I shall
be better by and bye, the ordeal of last night
was too much for me in my weak state."


