L. D. S. WOMENS' MEETINGS. 

	Synopsis of minutes of general meeting held in
the 14th Ward hall in this City May 24th, 1890
commencing at 2 p. m., Pres. M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing "Welcome best of all good meet-
ings," prayer by Sister Julia Pack, singing "O,
my Father." Minutes of previous meeting read
and accepted, also the minutes of the 11th Ward
P. A. Pres. Horne made opening remarks wel-
comed all, was pleased to see Sister Zina Young
and her daughter Sister Zina Y. Card and invited
them to address the meeting.
	Sister Zina Card expressed her pleasure in
meeting with the sisters at the fountain head, she
had been away a long time, related some of her
experiences in helping build up a new colony;
she gave some very good advice urging the sisters
 o be true to their covenants, to remember the
counsel that had been given not to sell their
homes to their enemies, to be united in doing
good, and not criticise those in authority nor find
fault with their brethren and sisters; related a
dream her uncle had many years ago, compared
it with what was now taking place; thought it
necessary every one should have a testimony for
herself in order to withstand the temptations that
come in the way of every saint; the Lord had per-
mitted trials to come upon us which would be
for our good, if we could endure faithful to the
end. Sister Zina referred to the advancement be-
ing made in Canada, and of the happy, peaceful
times the saints enjoyed there; the officials of the
government that had visited them spoke well of
the people, as being law-abiding and industrious.
"Our people there number about four hundred,
there is plenty of water, and everything seems
favorable, but you all know what it is to settle a
new country. I want to urge the sisters to be
particular to send their children to the Church
schools, it will be a great help to them, and by
kindness to turn the hearts of the children to the
Gospel," concluded by asking the Lord to bless her
aged mother and Sister Horne and give them
health and strength to perform the labor assigned
them, to bless all the saints and all who are
working for the kingdom of God.
	Sister M. McMaster bore her testimony and
made some good remarks, said it was fifty years
since she received the Gospel, spoke principally
upon the power of God manifest in the healing of


the sick, thought prayer should never be forgotten,
was sad because of the death of one of her Coun-
selors Sister Larsen. Referred to the necessity
of the work for the dead.
	Pres. Zina Young spoke impressively of the
work for the dead urged the sisters not to delay,
there are thousands waiting there for the work to
be done for them. We are living in a great day
the Gospel gives us comfort and peace, entreated
the sisters to be faithful and the blessings of God
would be upon them.
	Sisters Mc'Gregor, M. E. Kimball, Snow,
Waterfall, Dyer and Watmough spoke upon the
subjects already touched upon in an interesting
manner.
	Pres. Horne alluded to the remarks of Sister
Card said, there is the true ring of the Gospel in
them, could see the hand of the Lord in things
now taking place, if we watch the signs of the
times, we can understand that the prophecies are
being fulfilled. Referred to the good work being
done in the Church schools and said many ex-
cellent things. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing "Come hither all ye weary souls," bene-
diction by Sister E. Stevenson.

	Synopsis of minutes of general meeting held in
14th Ward hall June 7th, commencing at 2 p. m,
Counselor Sarah M. Kimball presiding. Singing
"For the strength of the hills we bless Thee,"
prayer by Sister Mary Silver, singing, "Where
the voice of friendship's heard." Minutes of pre-
vious meeting read and approved. Sister Kimball
thought we could have a good meeting though
few in number and called upon the sisters to join
in prayer in behalf of Sister Wheeler who was
sick. Sister Diana Reid President of the 16th
Ward Relief Society gave a brief sketch of her
recent visit to Canada, felt thankful for the privi-
lege of being at home again, thought there was no
place like home.
	Several sisters then bore their testimony, among
the number Sister M. A. E. Watmough who
made excellent remarks and was followed by
Sister Julia C. Howe who bore a strong testimony
and referred to the dreams she had before she
came into the Church, and spoke of an only
brother who could not think of the Gospel with
any degree of tolerance because it had been the
means of breaking up the family, but she knew it
was the truth and worth all the sacrifices made
for it.
	Sister Pratt bore a good testimony, referred to
the mother's great responsibility in teaching the
children, and made excellent remarks upon many
subjects. Sister Mary Silver felt happy to be
numbered with the saints and another sister spoke
in a similar strain.
	Sister S. M. Kimball gave notice of the Relief
Society Conference and also announced that
there would be a meeting of the Utah W. S. A.,
on the following Saturday June 14th. Singing
"The time is far spent," benediction by Sister M.
E. Kimball.
