CANNON,—CANNON FARM.]

	Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Farmer's
Ward held June 6th, 1890 at 10 a. m. at the resi-
dence of Sister Sarah J. Cannon. Meeting opened
by singing  "Come Follow Me." Prayer was
offered by Sister Margaret Peart. Continued by
singing "Earth with her ten thousand flowers."
Roll was called showing a good attendance.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young then addressed the


[Column 1]

﻿young ladies, urging them to make good use of
their time in youth. We will be blessed by study
ing sentiments from the different Church works
and always try and respond with one when our
name is called from the roll.
	Sister Mary Freeze said she always felt as if
prayer was of great importance to the young
girls. We should always try to follow in the
footsteps of the Savior. Thought we should read
the Church works especially the "Story of the
Book of Mormon" because we know it was trans-
lated by the power of God. Attend to all your
meetings, Fast meeting is always a spiritual meet-
ing and the spirit of God is often manifested
greatly. Strive to become perfect even as your
Father in heaven is perfect.
	Sister Della Eardly thought we should set an
example at all times worthy to be followed after.
We should never think we have too much work
to do, but always be willing to do any thing
which will forward God's work.
	Sister Jane Freeze felt pleased to see an in-
crease in the attendance of the society thought
the young ladies were doing a good work. The
older sisters should assist the younger ones by
bearing their testimonies of the truth of the work
of God. Do not find fault with each other we
all have our faults and we should try to over
look them in others. Each one work with a de-
sire to make the meetings a success.
	Sister Phelps said she knew we had come on
this earth for a purpose and as young ladies we
should be obedient to our parents. A good
daughter always makes a good wife, and good
mother. Testified of how we could obtain bless-
ings through faith and prayer. "May God bless
you that you may grow up to be noble women in
Zion."
	Sister S. M. Kimball said: "Our greatest happi-
ness is obtained by receiving the spirit of God,
and may God grant a portion of this spirit to be
with you.
	We should appreciate this privilege which we
have of meeting together and being blessed with
parents who belong to the Church of God."
	Sister Emily S. Richards then gave some very
good instructions after which the choir sang "The
glorious day." Benediction by Dr. E. S. Barney.
		VILATE PEART, Sec.
	After the close of the meeting a delicious lunch
was served and lively and, spirited conversation
until time for the afternoon meeting came. Mean-
time other sisters had arrived from the City with
Pres. Jane S. Richards from Ogden. Following,
a[---] the minutes of the meeting.
RELIEF SOCIETV FARMER'S WARD.
	Minutes of Farmer's Ward Relief Society held
in the parlors of Sister Sarah Jane Cannon, Fri-
day af[-]rnoon June 6, 1890. Sister Emma Wood-
ruff pre[-]iding. Meeting opened by singing "O,
say wha[-] is truth," Prayer was offered by Presi-
dent Zin[-] D. H. Young, continued by singing
"How fir[-] a foundation." Roll called and
minutes re[-] and accepted.
	Pres. Em[-]a Woodruff made a few opening re-
marks, was [-]leased to see the sisters who had
come to visit us and would like to hear from
them.
	Sister Sarah Richards was the first speaker,
dwelt upon the g[--]dness of God to us and how
many blessings an[-] privileges the sisters enjoyed
now, that they did [-]ot in former times. Advised
the sisters to be pe[--]emakers, and never be the
cause of trouble, but [-]e ever charitable and love
each other.
	Pres. Jane S. Richar[-]s, felt thankful that she
had a testimony of the [--]uth, knew there was a
great deal of good we cou[--] do, even if we were
not able to do much pu[--]ic speaking; related
some interesting incidents of healing through
faith etc., spoke feelingly [--] the kindness we
could show to the sick, and exorted the sisters to
teach the children to keep t[-] Sabbath day,

[Column 2]

spoke of the little respect some people manifested
for that holy day. "We should do all in our
power to have our children grow up pure and
honest. We ought to be able to bear all things
whatsoever may come and keep the faith." Re-
ferred to the work for the dead and told us how
good and glorious it was to minister for the de-
parted ones in the house of the Lord.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she had had a great
many thoughts during the morning meeting and
also in the afternoon; it had been a feast to her.
Spoke upon prayer, and of faith, she had seen
her sister healed almost instantly, after having
used crutches a year and a half. Made some re-
marks upon order, and thought our children ought
to be more inclined to obey and to attend meet-
ing; we must prepare ourselves to meet the
Lord; related items concerning her travels among
the people giving instruction to the young ladies;
thought if the daughters of Zion would live as they
ought, they could accomplish great things.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball desired to speak to
benefit the sisters, alluded to a visit she had made
with Sister Snow when language was given them
to benefit each other. Spoke upon order in our
meetings and public places of worship.
	President Zina D. H. Young said there had
been a great many good points touched upon,
said she loved to bear her testimony, urged the
sisters to exert themselves to overcome all imper-
fections and weaknesses, and seek alway to keep
the spirit of God, and live so as to claim the bless-
ings of the Gospel.
	Pres. Emma Woodruff thanked the sisters for
coming and for the good instruction they had
given to the Society.
	Sister Taylor spoke of the wonderful manifes-
tations of power, she had seen in the old country,
and the sacrifice she had made in leaving home,
children and all for the Gospel, hoped to do a
work for her dead in the Temple.
	Sister Margeret Peart expressed her pleasure
in meeting with sisters, and hearing so many good
subjects spoken upon; desired to be a help in
the Relief Society; and testified to the truth of
the Gospel which we have embraced.
	Sister E. B. Wells, spoke upon faith and the
building up of Zion, thought there would not be
greater trials than we would be able to bear in
cheerfulness, thought we should exert ourselves
to help each other in the labors we have in our
organizations; these have been a great blessing to
us all, desired to dedicate her time and all the
best energies she posssessed to do good in the
kingdom of God.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt said she loved to attend the
sisters' meetings, dwelt upon faith in the ordi-
nances among the sisters, thought we should try
to keep every commandment that had been given;
rejoiced in the great and good work that had been
done by the Relief Society.
	Counselor Sarah Jane Cannon felt benefited
and blest in the spiritual instruction given this
day; she did not need an eloquent speech to
comfort her, a few words from the heart with the
right spirit always helped her; she felt blest en-
couraged and strengthened in the meetings to-day.
It had been a spiritual feast to have the sisters in
her home, some of them had never been there
before; it had really been a time of rejoicing.
	Sister Emily S. Richards felt there were so
many who were older and more capable of giving
instruction present, that she would prefer to
listen, but was very glad of what she had heard
and especially in reference to order in the house
of the Lord. She admired a spirit like that Sister
Kimball had, that when she knew she was right
she was not afraid to speak out. Expressed
some of her views on the subject of etiquette
among the young, and also of her work as an of-
ficer in the Day Nursery.
	Sister Zina added a few words more to what
had been said of order in places of worship, and

[Column 3]

suggested that the Primary was a good place to
begin teaching the children.
	Sister J. S. Richards made some further sug-
gestions upon the same subject, and also in re-
gard to the care of children.
	Sister S. M. Kimball followed in the same
strain speaking of her mother's teaching and ex-
ample in these matters when she was a child;
and also spoke of its having become common in
some of the Churches to have women act as
Deaconesses.
	Sister E. Woodruff made a few closing remarks,
spoke of the feast she had enjoyed and again
thanked the sisters for their visit. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks, singing, "Praise ye the
Lord," dismissed with prayer by Sister Delight
Woodruff.
		M. A. CANNON, Sec.
	After the meeting was dismissed the sisters
had a sociable time in talking over current events
and later repaired to the dining room to partake of
a most excellent dinner, which had been pre-
pared for the occasion. The bouquets of roses
and other fragrant flowers added greatly to the
appearance of the room and gave zest to the ap-
petites of the guests. About this time President
Woodruff arrived his kind and fatherly manner and
presence giving still greater pleasure to those
assembled under Sister Cannon's hospitable
roof. It was a day to be treasured in memory's
cabinet.


