HEPHZIBAH.
XXII.
Alone, and weary, among strangers too,
	What consolation could a hope impart,
Only the thought that duty, stern and true
	Implanted by religion in the heart.

	Young Mrs Harvey grew gradually convales-
cent, though she seemed scarcely to realize her
delicate condition, she mourned for her baby, it
would have been company for her in the lonely
hours, when she lay so weary day after day,
thinking how her bright hopes had been
blighted one by one, and wondering if she
could ever recover. She tried to get faith 
enough to be healed under the administration
of the Elders, who came very often and it al-
ways comforted her for a time.  One day she
recalled the circumstance of Brigham Young's
coming to administer to her at a time when
she was suffering great pain, and the words
came fresh to her mind that he had spoken on
that occasion "thou shalt rise up from this bed
of affliction and live yet many years to do
good," it was like new life to her, and she laid
hold of the promise, and began to gain strength
until she was able to sit up, and move about
the house; the weather was growing colder,
winter was coming on, and somehow she felt
the strangest presentiments; whenever she
mentioned this to Harold, he would whistle
and sing, and tell her it was only because she
was nervous and low-spirited, but he never
quite satisfied her with regard to himself; he
was attentive and affectionate always, but his
manner grew more and more restless, and
Hepsie was not in a condition to understand.
Had she been well and strong in body and
mind and able to go out, she might possible
have known more and averted the serious con-
sequences that followed, but fate it seemed
would have it so,—and she was powerless
under the circumstances.
	One day Harold came home at dinner time
and called his wife aside to say "Hepsie I am
going away, to stay two or three weeks, going
to St. Louis on business for the store, now don't
cry, as he saw her lips quiver and the tears
come to her eyes, or I shall never have the
courage to go, and it is really necessary, you 
must be brave, and try to get better fast while
I'm gone, you'll not be so thin and pale when 
I come home." Hepsie could not speak,
Harold embraced her fondly again and again
as though loth to leave her, "Come with me 
to the riverside" he said, she threw a shawl
around her and in a moment they stood on the
bank of the great river that flowed so near
their dwelling. "Once more good-bye sweet-
heart, wife, darling," as if the words choked
him, and he was gone; gone with her kisses on
his lips; she watched him in the distance, his fair
hair shining like burnished gold, his overcoat
on his arm, while her tears and sobs were
pitiful; she never forgot how he looked then,
as she saw him going away, though as she be-


[Column 1]
lieved only for a short time. Alas, how 
strangely things occur in this world, and we
know not why 'tis so.
	The three weeks went by and Hepsie watched 
and waited, in good faith, never for one moment
doubting him, though a great pain was always
in her heart, she had striven hard to be com-
posed, to regain strength; and she could read
and write a little now; during these days of 
waiting, she had so longed for a letter from
Harold, and wondered why he did not write;
in his abrupt departure, she had not thought
to ask him to write, and she had no idea where
to address a letter should she write one. So
she had nothing to do but wait. and no letter
came. Hope began to grow less, and yet she 
had no one to whom she could, or would go for 
comfort except the Lord. Prayers and tears 
were her only outlet for the grief she felt so 
keenly.
	One day a man, who knew so little of this
patient young wife, or of a woman's nature one
would think, said to her in the most careless
way "Mrs. Harvey don't you think your hus-
band has given you the slip?" She heard no
more, the shock was too much for her to bear.
	While Hepsie lived she never forgot those
words, it was as if a knife entered her heart at
first, and then she fell upon the floor in a deadly
faint. When she came to herself again she
tried to think what had happened, gradually
it dawned upon her and she recalled the cruel
words, and she felt sure, hard as it was to bear,
it must be the truth, else why had he not
written to her. But we will leave the poor
little wife for a few days alone with her
terrible sorrow.
	It is impossible to paint in words the anguish
she endured in the days that followed, but she
was not left long to herself. She was stricken
sorely, her heart was bruised indeed if not
broken, no one to appeal to, it was hard for
her to rally sufficiently to think, but she sum-
moned all her latent powers and thought over
all those who had come from her native village,
but there was not one among them all to whom
she could go. Ill and alone in a strange city,
her pride kept her apart from those who would 
have helped her, or shall we say an over-rul-
ing Providence marked out her course. "If
mother would only come now, or if Lucy
Reynolds were but here," she would repeat
over and over to herself.—
	One evening a neighbor had come in for a
few minutes, thinking to offer consolation, and
before scarcely anything had been said, a loud
knock at the door startled her, she rushed to
open it thinking surely it was Harold, but no,
it was an utter stranger.
	"Mrs. Harvey" said the stranger addressing
her by name "I have come for you?" telling
her his name, "O, you are my husband's
partner, have you brought me a letter or news
of him? is he ill? must I go to him?"
	The man was young, and was not prepared
to answer these hurried questions, in fact he
was somewhat alarmed. "Calm yourself Mrs.
Harvey he said after a moments' pause, I
have come with a message from my mother,
she will explain all, come with me, it is but
a short distance, only in Main Street." "To
night said Mrs. H. beginning to feel timid,
and with you alone?" "Yes you need have no
fear," and turning to the sister who was in the
room, he said "Mrs. J. you know my mother
don't you?" "O, yes I know Mrs. S.—y—quite
well, there is nothing to fear, however as Mrs.
H. is weak and nervous I will go with her."
Thus reassured Hepsie put on her things it
was a cold night, her long cloak with sleeves
and all trimmed with fur which came down to 
her feet—it had been made new for her wedding
tour, the cape nearly as large as the cloak it-
self, she was almost lost in her wraps; pale as
death and trembling with nervous excitement
she locked the door behind her and went out
[Column 2]
into the dark street. She did not speak a word
until they reached the house which was only
a very little way, and Mrs. J. left her at the 
door, saying "it will be better for you to go in
alone;" and Hepsie felt relieved not knowing
what she was about to hear. Mr. S. opened
the door and Hepsie was ushered into a warm,
light room where sat two young men and an
elderly lady who came forward quickly and 
almost took her in her outstretched arms, say-
ing, "dear me honey so young, so sick, sit ye
down I'll take care of you and nurse you up."
Hepsie could not speak, she was more puzzled
than ever. "What could it mean?" she said
to herself—the cold night air and the warm 
room had a peculiar effect upon her, her head
was dizzy, she was bewildered, and completely 
overcome; the old lady took off her wraps all
the time, calling her "honey" and "poor little
thing," finally Hepsie summoned courage
enough to say, "have you no news for me?"
"why am I to stay here?" The young men 
looked from one to the other and then at the 
mother, and neither spoke. Finally in tender
tones Mrs. S. said "you must wait until morn-
ing, you are too ill, come with me, and she al-
most carried her to the next room undressed
her and laid her in bed then brought hot 
rocks to warm her feet and gave her warm
drink; Hepsie had no idea what it was, but she 
felt the sympathy of this gentle motherly wo-
man soothe her, and she soon fell asleep but
only to wake again in a tumult of fears and 
tremulous emotions. Mrs. S. was in bed with 
her, and the hardwood coals were burning on
the hearth, the room was full of shadows all
strange and new. Mrs. S. finding she had 
wakened, rose and brought her more warm 
drink; Hepsie was reluctant to take it, but the 
good woman said, "honey you must take this
its only valerian you'll sleep if you take it,
and let me rub you too, you're cold as marble."
No mother could have been gentler or more
thoughtful than was this strange woman to
little Hepsie; her heart was drawn out in 
pity for her lonely and helpless condition.
	The next morning Mrs. S. was early astir
leaving Hepsie dozing half between sleeping 
and waking; she was preparing the breakfast
when the boys came down and asked if she
had told Mrs. H. anything. "No, indeed she
can't bear it yet, you must leave it all to me,
depend on't she'd die if you told her now."
The boys as Mrs. called them were glad to let
their mother have her way, for they could not
carry out the request Harold had made of
them in a letter they had received. They had
never seen a woman like Mrs. H. before, and 
had no idea how to convey sad messages. It 
was well for Hepsie that they hesitated, or, at
least she thought so afterwards, else the shock
would have been too great had it come all at
once. 
	Within two or three days, little by little
Mrs. S had carefully given Hepsie to under-
stand, that she was not dependent upon them,
that Harold had provided this home for her
until she would be strong enough to go away,
or some other arrangement could be made.
Hepsie was becoming aware by degrees, thanks
to the thoughtfulness of Mrs. S. that she was 
left alone, and she felt utterly forsaken and help-
less.
	It was a heavy blow to fall upon one so 
feeble and childish, "nervous prostration will
certainly follow" so said good Mrs. S. to her 
boys "she is the most amiable and daintiest
little woman I have ever seen, how young
Harvey could go and forsake such a wife I
can't see I've no patience with such fellows."
	"Mother he could'nt help it" said Hezekiah
the youngest of the three; "I've told you so
before, he wept like a child when he left
Charlie and I at the landing, and begged we 
would watch over his wife, until she was well
but we did'nt dare to go near her until that
[Column 3]
letter came, and then I was dumb before her 
pale face thinking of her great sorrow."
	Many conversations were held between
mother and sons about Mrs. H. during the 
short time she was with them, of which Hepsie
knew very little, she seemed more dead than
alive so far as any activity was concerned,
languid and listless, she let the days slip by; 
and seemed almost content to let Mrs. S. wait
upon her without even thinking for herself.
But another change was coming. Although
Mrs. S. was careful to avoid anything objec-
tionable to Mrs. H. yet she had noticed of 
late that "the boys" spoke of going away,
leaving Nauvoo, and they were fast becoming
disaffected in their faith, and she felt the in-
fluence was making an impression on Mrs. 
S., but she had no idea that she could make
any change until she was able to teach, which 
seemed the only alternative, and so she kept
silence.
	One day after the boys had gone out and 
by the by Mrs. S. had been reasoning sharply 
with them in the next room at breakfast 
time, and Hepsie was praising the buckwheat
cakes she was trying hard to eat, and thank-
ing Mrs. S. for her patient care and waiting 
and tending upon her, Mrs. S. inquired "How
would you like to go over the river with us to
live, these are troublous times here, and there
will be serious trouble here by Spring, and I 
don't like being here without the boys and 
they wont stay?" And as she saw Mrs. H. did
not reply she said, we don't want to leave you
here, the boys love you as their own sister,
wont you come and go with us only thirty 
miles to Farmington and I'll take good care of
you.

