LATTER-DAY SAINTS' COLLEGE.

	We have before us the "Annual Circular of the
Latter-day Saints' College" for the coming year
commencing September 1, 1890 and closing May
22nd, 1891, divided into two terms, the first six-
teen weeks,the second twenty weeks. The winter
vacation will begin Dec. 20, 1890 and will end
Jan. 4, 1891.
	The teachers are James E. Talmage D. S. D.
Ph. D., Principal—Willard Done and Joseph Nel-
son Counselors, with John J. Walton, Richard
Haag Instructors and Mrs. Camilla Cobb, Lady
Superintendent, also Evan Stephens, teacher of
Vocal music. Lectures are to be given by Elder
George Reynolds on the Book of Mormon, Elder
John Nicholson, Theology, Seymour B. Young
M. D., Sanitary Science, Hon. F. S. Richards,
Political Science, Richard W. Young L. L. D.,
Commerical Law, Don C. Young C. E., Archi-
tecture, Romania B. Pratt M. D., Hygiene for
Women, Bishop O. F. Whitney.
	The Circular contains a historical sketch of the
school which was first called the Salt Lake Stake
Academy, but was last year changed, to Latter-
day Saints' College, and on April 7th, of this year
the College was appointed "The Central Normal
College of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints."
	The sketch closes with the following para-
graph.
	"The career of the school during the four years
of its active operation is now a matter of record,
both in the archives of the institution, and in the
hearts and memories of its patrons. It is there-
fore with pleasurable anticipations, and a firm re-
liance upon the continued and increased support
of our people that we issue the circular for the
fifth academic year. The patronage bestowed in
the past is a convincing proof that the people recog-
nize the necessity of an educational system which
shall provide for the harmonious development of
the mental and spiritual faculties of the children
of Zion. Only by such a system can symmetri-

[Column 2]

cal growth be realized; and to assist in bringing
about this result is the earnest desire of the of-
ficers of the Latter-day Saints' College."
	The circular contains terms of admission, tui-
tion, incidental expenses, and traveling etc. De-
partments, with the names of all the branches
taught including courses in Theology, language
and history, Latin, German and Spanish, phonog-
raphy, elocution, Courses in Mathematics, busi-
ness courses and science and agriculture. Nor-
mal Department; Ladies' Class includes besides
hygiene and habit and other topics, systematic
calisthenic drill, and instruction in various
branches of needle work. Graduation, Records,
Apparatus, the Library, the Field Club, and the
Students Society. All these subjects are care-
fully explained in the circular. Weekly meetings
of the Faculty are held for the purpose of re-
porting and considering matters pertaining to the
school.
	The Executive Committee of the Stake Board
of Education are Angus M. Cannon, W. B.
Dougall, W. A. Rossiter. All communications
should be sent to the principal Dr. J. E. Talmage
P. O. Box 1047, Salt Lake City,
	It is a great satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints
that Church schools have been established,where-
in the children while drinking at the fountain of
knowledge, may imbibe also portions of the Holy
Spirit which Spirit leadeth into all truth, giving a
sure key whereby one may interpret correctly the
wisdom of the world and not be deceived therein,
	Looking back over the past one cannot help
feeling that this step would have been a great
advantage to those now grown to manhood and
womanhood. Too much care cannot be taken of
the youth of Zion not only in the home, the Sab-
bath School and Young Peoples' Associations,but
in the school room as well, that the children may
be preserved in the purity of the faith.


