WORTHY OF THE HONOR.

	The anniversary of Mrs. Josephine R. West's
birthday was celebrated by the Primary Asso-
ciations of Ogden City on Saturday May 24th.
Mrs. West is the President of the Primary As-
sociations of Weber Stake. A pleasant sur-
prise was provided for her, and she was invited
to a meeting of the officers and members of the
five Primary Associations in Ogden City, which
was held at 2 o'clock in the Second Ward
meeting house under the auspices of the Asso-
ciation of that ward.
	Mrs. Mamie Richards presided over the
pleasant gathering. There were present be-
side the presidency of the several associations
in the City, Bishop Robert McQuarrie, of the
Second Ward, and W. G. Child, one of his
counselors.
	After the usual exercises, a written address
of welcome and congratulation was read by
Miss Aggie Herrick. The address was ably
written, and proved to be a eulogy of Mrs.
West's labors in the primary associations in
the past, and dwelt in glowing and truthful
words on the benefets accruing from her labors
and those of her assistants who had worked
with her and under her direction. It wished
her long life and many years of usefulness in
the sphere in which she had so long moved as
to make herself indispensable to the success
of this institution—the Primary Association.
	This address which deserves special mention
for its neatness and elegance in expression,
while void of embellishment other than that
merited by the subject of the address, being
finished, a short programme, consisting of suit-
able recitations, was rendered by members or
officers of each ward.
	The following speakers were then introduced,
all of whom spoke of the labors of the various
associations throughout the stake and the
effect they had in the training of the youthful
minds for good, and accrediting to Mrs. West
a great deal of the success that these associa-
tions had met with in the past few years:
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie, Mrs. Elizabeth
Y. Stanford, counselor to President West;
Harriet Nye, counselor to the president of the


Fifth Ward association; W. G. Child, counselor
to Bishop McQuarrie.
	A hymn was then sung by the children.
Then came the following speakers: Wealthy
Ensign, president of the First Ward associa-
tion; Nina Rich, president of the Third Ward
association; Maggie Chambers, president of the
Fourth Ward association; Caroline Ballantyne,
president of the Fifth Ward association;
Marian Burton, secretary of the Stake Board;
Letitia Peery, Mrs. R. J. Taylor, counselor to
the president of the Third Ward association;
Mrs. Jane S. Richards and Mrs. Emily
Shurtliff.
	Mrs. Josephine West closed the speeches.
She could scarcely speak for the joy that welled
up in her heart at seeing the many friendly
faces before her and the satisfaction that
beamed on each countenance. She said that
they had that day done her an honor she
would never forget, one that caused her a joy
and happiness that no gift could possibly have
bestowed. It was a genuine surprise to her
and was therefore the more appreciated. She
thanked one and all for the interest in her be-
half and the appreciation of her labors and the 
esteem they had that day shown to her.
	The meeting over, Mrs. Mamie Richards in-
vited the officers and guests to Mrs. West's
residence where a splendid repast had been
prepared during their absence, which proved a
second surprise to Mrs. West.		Ex.


