R. S. CONFERENCES
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Tooele Stake will be held in Grantsville, on
Saturday the 14th of June. 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Weber Stake will be held in Ogden on Thurs-
day the 26th of June. 
	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, President of Y. L.
M. I. A. and Mrs. Louie Felt, President P. A.
have gone North to visit the settlements in
Oneida Stake with Mrs. Elizabeth Fox, Pres. R.
S. and Mrs. Jane Eldredge Pres. P. A. of that
Stake. They expect to be absent about two
weeks.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms in this City on Thursday June
19th, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and at
2 p. m. Presidents are expected to make verbal
reports, officers and members are earnestly so-
licited to be present. The Presidency of the
Stake, Bishops of the several wards and other
brethren are cordially invited to attend the Con-
ference.


[Column 1]
LATTER-DAY SAINTS' COLLEGE.
INTERESTING COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.
	At the Social Hall, beginning at 11 a. m., the
commencement exercises of the fourth academic
year of the Latter-day Saints' College were held.
There were present on the stand: Of the General
Board of Education, President Wilford Woodruff
and Secretary George Reynolds; of the Stake
Board, Secretary Wm. B. Dougall. Bishop Wm.
T. Reid of Manti, Don C. Young, C. E., Mrs
Zina D. Young, Mrs. Zina Y. Card, and a goodly
number of visitors.
	The exercises opened with a hymn, "Great God
attend," by the choir.
	Prayer was offered by Instructor Newton
Noyes.
	A vocal duet, "Beautiful Moonlight," was
creditably rendered by Misses Ettie Penrose and
Jennie Smith.
	Brother Nathan Gedge, a student of the Inter-
mediate Department of the college, delivered an
address in behalf of that department.
	Brother Nathan Porter, of the Academic De-
partment, delivered an eloquent address on be-
half of the students of that department.
	An instrumental selection, "Heavenward," was
performed pleasingly by Miss Kate Romney.
	This was followed by an address "Our Lady
Students," by Miss Amy Woolley. The general
sentiment of the lady students of the college is
one of the greatest satisfaction at the opportun-
ities afforded them for their advancement. A
tribute was paid to the spirit to be observed in
the institution, and the thought was expressed
that the education of the ladies cannot be dis-
pensed with.
	Instructor Joseph Nelson spoke upon the sub-
[Column 2]
ject of the "Business Courses," which have been
under his care.
	Instructor Willard Done followed with remarks
bearing upon the course in literature and history,
comprising the studies of English literature,
general history, civil government, and elementary
German, in which branches one student has
passed.
	The Principal followed by reading the names
of the following students who have successfully
passed the course prescribed by the Faculty as
necessary to advance them from the Intermediate
to the Academic Department: Emma Carroll,
Philip Maycock, Emily Hillam, Hattie Symons,
Nora Wheeler, Frank Brown, Jane Parrish, Clare
W. Reid, Nettie Davis and Donnette Smith.
	Certificates were then presented to Frank
Pomeroy and Alva Butler in the business course,
and to Laura Hyde in the course in literature and
history.
	After the rendition of a song, "Only a Rose,"
by Miss Maudie Bowring, the following report
was read by Principal J. E. Talmage:
	PRINCIPAL'S REPORT.
	To the Salt Lake Stake Board of Education, ex-
officio the Board of Directors of the Latter-day
Saints' College:
	Dear Brethren—With feelings of sincere pleas-
ure I respectfully submit to you the following re-
port of the Latter-day Saints' College, for the
second term of the fourth academic year, which
began January 6, 1890, and which ends May 23,
1890.
	THE DEPARTMENTS.
	The Intermediate Department has been con-
ducted in two divisions. Instructor William
Done has had charge of Section A, and Instructor
Newton Noyes Section B. Instructor Willard
Croxall has devoted his attention to classes in
each of these divisions.
	The Academic Department has remained in
charge of Instructor Joseph Nelson.
	In accordance with the announcements through
the annual circular for the fourth academic year,
the studies of this department have been arranged
in courses, with reference to the final graduation
of the students. Six such courses have been
provided, viz.: Physical Science, Natural Science,
Mathematics, Business Courses, Literature and
History, and Phonography.

	The Theological exercises have been conducted
during the term with no essential variation from
the methods previously reported.
	We have been specially favored during the
term with valuable instructions from Elder
George Reynolds, who has conducted the aca-
demic class in Book of Mormon study, twice per
week.
	The lady students have continued in the labors
of the Ladies' Class under the careful direction
of our Lady Superintendent, Mrs. Camilla Cobb.
The class has met in two sections, arranged ac-
cording to the ages of the members. Section A
comprised 87 ladies and has held during the term
21 sessions. Dr. Mattie P. Hughes rendered
very valuable assistance to the organization by
delivering a series of six lectures upon the sub-
ject "Personal Hygiene for Women." Class B
consisted of 14 members all under the age of fif-
teen. Of this division 16 sessions have been
held during the term.
	The Students' Society has been conducted un-
der the presidency of Instructor Done, with Miss
Anna Erickson associated as secretary. Even-
ing meetings have been held at the close of each
week with but few omisions.
	LECTURES.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney, one; Dr. R. B. Pratt,
one; Elder John Nicholson, one; Don C. Young


C. E., two; Elder F. F. Hintze, one; Hon. F. S.
Richards, one; and Elder B. H. Robers, one.

	The buildings at present occupied by the
college afford but very inadequate accommoda-
tions for the departments of the institution.	*	*
	Our acknowledgments are due the railway com-
panies of this region, notably the various
branches of the Union Pacific system, the Denver
& Rio Grande, the Utah Central and the Salt
Lake City Railway for the privileges of reduced
fares which have been extended to our students
under prescribed rules; also to the proprietors
and officials of the various industrial and manu-
facturing establishments in and around the city
for numerous courtesies extended to the students
in visiting such places for study; and to the
publishers of the following periodicals for current
copies of their journals: Deseret Evening News,
Salt Lake Daily Herald, Ogden Standard, Utah
Journal, Richfield Advocate, Southern Idaho, In-
dependent, Juvenile Instructor, WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, Utah Enquirer, Young Ladies' Journal,
Contributor, and Puck, (the last named being re-
ceived through the courtesy of Margetts'
Brothers.)

