PRIMARY ANNUAL.

	Minutes of the 19th Ward S. L. City Primary
held May 19th 1890, Miss Bessie Dean presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, "The
Golden Rule." Prayer by Miss Maud Bliss.
Continued by singing "In Our Lovely Deseret."
The report of the Primary Association was
then read. 100 members present. Programme
was carried out as follows:—First was a
"Memory Gem""Virtue is better than wealth."
by Miss Lilly Dean, which was repeated by
the Primary. A bible story by Miss Gertie
Derbedge about "Abraham." A Recitatiou
by Miss Vernie Fanes. A duet by Polly
Colbert and Nellie Fitz. The paper "The
Golden Hour" was read by its editor Miss
Edith Farnes; the next was a correspondence
between Janie Alford and Carrie Edwards.
An organ solo by Lucy Dean, an essay by
Miss Libby Edwards; questions were asked by


Lilly Patworth and answered by Mamie Silver,
Lilly Dean, Ruby Irvine, Eddie Bliss, Parley
Patworth, and George Fitz. A story by Miss
Collett; Sister Louie Felt, Pres. of all the
Primaries in the world, spoke a short time in
favor of our Primary. Sister Felt was well
pleased with the paper, and asked a few ques-
tions. Sister Felt congratulated Pres. Bessie
Dean in the good way she had brought the Pri-
mary forward and said she had enjoyed our meet-
ing very much. She told us to listen and obey
all that the Pres. would tell us. Motion song
"Rock a by Baby" by Carrie Armstrong, Ada
Smart, Vernie Farnes, Lilly Patworth, Lilly
Dean. Mamie Newton, Amy Beesley, Laura
Newton, Ruby Irvine, and Emma Wattz.
	Sister Clawson Pres. of the Primary
Associations in S. L. County spoke a short
time. Sister Clawson was much pleased with
the opening prayer, the Memory Gem and the
paper. She said that she had enjoyed our
Primary Annual very much. Sister Clawson
was much pleased with the order and she
believed that we knew how to act in a build-
ing that was dedicated to the Lord. She was
much pleased in the way Pres. Bessie Dean
conducted the Primary. Brother Derbedge
then addressed us in a very interesting way.
Sister Mary E. Cook said that it was not the
first time that she had been to our Primary.
Sister Cook spoke a short time upon the life
of Christ. The Primary sang "Nearer My
God To Thee." Miss Ella Nebeker, Pres. of
the 22nd Ward Primary Association spoke a
few interesting words and asked a few questions.
Sister Neal Pres. of the Relief Society of the
19th Ward made a few remarks, and was much
pleased with our meeting. She thought it was
so good that there was nothing to add to it
to it to make it better. Sister Neal said if we
obeyed our Pres., that we would be blessed
because she taught us such good things.
Sister Irvine, the late Pres. of the Young
Ladies M. I. A. spoke a short time in favor of
our Primary Association and also was pleased
with the Pres. and her counselors. She noticed
that they were being brought up in such a
good way that they would soon be members
of the Y. L. M. I. A. Sister Irvine said good
bye to us because she was going to leave the
ward she asked us to pray for her little Jennie
who was very sick. Sister E. B. Wells spoke
a short time, in favor of our Primary and
asked a few questions. Programme for next
meeting was read Sang "Home Sweet Home."
Prayer by Elder Derbedge.
		Janie Alford


