ONE MORE GONE.

	The President of the Relief Society of Woodland Ward
departed this life Tuesday May 20, 1890, aged forty one
years, and having presided eleven years over the Society.
	Yes, one more bright spirit has taken its flight to realms
above, as a flower that has been cut down before its time
so has our beloved sister been snatched away from us by
the cruel hand of the destroyer.
	A good kind mother, sister and friend she has proven
herself to be and as the President of the Relief Society of
this ward she was honored and respected, but she has been
called to dwell in a higher sphere, there to await in great
glory, in the mansions of the blest, the coming of her loved
ones and friends.
	Sister Turnbow was possessed of a firm, resolute will,
and a dauntless spirit, ever in the defence of right; and she
seemed at all times to act according to the dictates of her
conscience. The true dignity of womanhood characterized
her every action.
	At the bidding of our Father in heaven that noble spirit
has taken its flight, to be a shining light in the world be-
yond. 
	We may shed many bitter, blinding tears, but all have this
consolation, that our sister who has just left us was worthy
to go and abide with those behind the vail, and that if we
labor diligently pressing ever onward and upward in the
path of righteousness and truth we will meet her again.
	To the bereaved husband, sons and daughters, we would
say; may God bless you, and strengthen you in this you
hour of dark trial and woe, and may you be enabled to see
His hand in all things, that you may be brave and live in
such a way that you may meet the pure spirit of the de-
parted one when your earthly sorrows and troubles are at
an end, and may you be enabled to see God's wisdom and
acknowledge His hand and His ruling in all things.
		SARAH REID, Ass't Sec.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.

"Judge not the Lord by feeble sense
	But trust him for his grace,
Behind a frowning Providence
	He hides a smiling face."

"His purposes will ripen fast
	Unfolding every hour
The bud may have a bitter taste
	But sweet will be the flower."


