THE CHURCH PROPERTY QUESTION.

	The confiscation of the "Mormon" Church pro-
perty seems to have aroused a greater interest
and more newspaper talk than anything else the
government has done with a view of breaking up
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Many of the journals and daily papers have
spoken of it as a dangerous experiment, for a
free government, while they sustain all that tends
to abolish the practise of polygamy (termed
plural marriage) and to punish all offenders, yet
the taking of the public property has been in
many instances condemned strongly by the public
press and by many of those who visit Utah, people
of influence and also those persons whom the
people meet in their journeyings. To many it
seems a subject of wonderment, and they can
scarcely credit that such a thing could be done,
in free America.
	Even in Congress it seems to have been ques-
tionable although the majority of the Supreme
Court decided that it was the proper thing to do.
	The matter of how this money shall be appro-
priated is another subject for differences of
opinion, here again is an opportunity for Senator
Edmunds and his colleagues to show what power
they have and can use, to dispose of the property
held in trust by the Church for public uses and
benefits. Why Senator Edmunds and some few
other congressmen who have the same sort of an-
tagonism towards this Church should be so
anxious to immediately dispose of the means
which has been the accumulation of years of toil
and the blessing of the Lord, is very strange in-
deed.
	He appears specially anxious to make himself
conspicuous through his interference with Utah
affairs, no matter how far removed from his pro-
vince to meddle in them. He knows nothing
comparatively of the people who have given this
means to the building of Temples and the spread
of the Gospel; with all his statesmanship and
political ability and influence he is not competent
to judge in the least the motives or acts of the
the people whose principles he so strongly con-
demns.
	The Gospel in its simplicity teaches the
humblest Latter-day Saint things far above his
comprehension; the Savior said He would take
the weak things of the world to confound the
wise. If he imagines that the spoiling of the
worldly goods of the Saints of God will lessen
their faith, then he will be greatly disappointed,
it will plant more firmly the roots of the tree of
life and knowledge that has sprung up on this
American continent.
	Congress cannot break in pieces the Church of 
Jesus Christ, it is founded upon a rock that is
sure and steadfast, the rock of divine revelation
and it will stand secure when the kingdoms of the

[Column 2]

earth shall totter and fall in pieces, and when
those who have fought against it and sought its
overthrow have past away and their names are
forgotten. Zion will assuredly triumph for the
prophets ancient and modern have foretold it and
their words cannot fail of fulfillment.
	Those who seek the destruction of the Church
and aim at the youth of Zion whom they look
upon as lawful prey, are straying wide of the
mark in persecuting the fathers and mothers;
they are only fastening more firmly the cords of
union and love that bind the Latter-day Saints
together,and every blow aimed at the religious or
political liberty of the parents causes a spirit of
admiration and reverence to spring up anew in
the hearts of the young, for the nobility and
charity which characterizes those thus deprived of
the sacred and inalienable rights of free American
citizens, and they begin to comprehend wherein
lies the strength that supports the Saints under
such trying and adverse circumstances. Those
who had heretofore been careless and indifferent
on these subjects are thus made thoughtful and
inquiring and the seeds of the Gospel implanted
in their hearts, begins to show forth in the blos-
soms that will in the near future yield abundant
fruit. The children will carry out the designs
and purposes of the parents and there is no fear
that the strength of Zion will be lessened, or her
numbers decreased because of persecution.
	These things are grievous to be sure they
cause sorrow and heartaches but in the Pro-
vidence of God all will be made right, and
those who endure will come off more than con-
querers notwithstanding the severe ordeal they
may have to pass through, for has He not said
they shall be as gold seven times purified.


[Column 1]

