LAKE SHORE.

	There are quite a number of the sisters in
this ward taking the EXPONENT at the present
time and they all seem to appreciate the value
of the paper and the good instruction it con-
tains and also the good counsel to us as
mothers in Israel. Our annual meeting was
held last month. Our numbers are not many
we are living in a farming district and are in
a very scattered condition, we have a pretty
good attendance at our meetings. Also our
Young Ladies, and Primary Associations are
doing splendidly. At our annual meeting
our President Sister Mariah Ferguson pre-
sided, singing, prayer by Bishop Lorenzo
Argyle, singing "Come let us anew our journey
pursue." Sister Ferguson then bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the work in which we are
engaged she felt like encouraging the
sisters to still continue in the good work which
they had undertaken.
	Counselors Letetia Banks and Julia A. Han-
son also spoke well, felt like going ahead and


doing their duty according to the will of the
Lord. The different officers were then placed
before the meeting to be sustained by Bishop
Argyle and there was a clear vote to sustain,
them all in their different offices.
	Sister Mariah Ferguson then spoke a few
minutes about the prosperity of our society
said that she thought, we were doing well, did
not feel to occupy more time but would like
to hear from the brethren present.
	Brother Andrew M. Ferguson thought as a
society we were doing well, said the sisters
had done better than the brethren according
to their means and time, said we needed a
house to meet in and was glad to see that we
talked of having one in the near future; told
us what the society was organized for by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. He felt to encourage
the sisters and said that the Lord would bless
them in as much as they performed their
duties, in righteousness, and humbleness of
heart; that we must work faithfully to the end
if we wished to gain the reward for which we
are striving, that our Father in heaven would
reward us if we would magnify our callings
according to his will in meekness before
Him.
	Bishop Lorenzo Argyle bore his testimony
and said it was our duty to help strengthen one
another, said that he thought it the duty of
every brother and sister in the Church to be
teachers to each other, if we lived our religion
as we ought. Said the greater our labors the
greater our reward, and the greater our knowl-
edge the greater our condemnation if we did
not do our duty. Advised the sisters to be
punctual in their attendance, thought we would
feel better if we met often and bore testimony
to the truth of the work of the Lord, said he
hoped the sisters would encourage their hus-
bands and help them in being faithful; that
we had an influence with them for good or bad
and that if we used it for good, we would be as
a mighty pillar of strength in Zion in helping
to roll on the Latter-day work, also that as
parents, we should be careful of the example
that we set before our children. Spoke of the
sorrow and pain we would endure if our little
ones should go astray through any example
we have set before them; told us as sisters not
to murmur against our president but sustain
her in the position she occupied; exhorted us
to be faithful in our labors of love for the
dead, to be diligent in our endeavors to do a
work for them, finally counseled us to be faith-
ful in all things both great and small.
	Pres. Ferguson then spoke about buying a
piece of land for our Relief Society house to
be built on, we then had a committee of five
appointed as a building committee. Meeting
then adjourned, singing "Lord dismiss us."
Benediction by A. M. Ferguson.
