AN ADDRESS.
	It is our desire, today, not to be sensational,
but to reach out towards the hearts and minds
of the intelligent amongst us, and there station
a few time-tried unsullied facts.
	Like all other true progressive movements,our
cause has its firm adherents and its determined
foes,whose opposition like that of many other
unfortunate antagonists, is due to a blindness
in regard to our purpose, a misunderstanding
of our aims. This fact is confirmed by the
array of arguments brought forth by many.
A woman who is aspiring and ambitious is
termed "office-seeking" "Masculine" etc. Such
appellation would occasion no change of feeling
in one who stood upon the ground of purpose
and determination, except, perhaps, one of
pity for such a lack of wisdom.
	Can it be, sisters, that your star of intelligence
and advancment can fade in the simple regard
of your position in the estimation of the general
public? Or is it possible that your purpose
can be swayed by these borrowed, passed-around
opinions.
	But, say a thousand voices, woman's mission
is to be a wife. Her desire should be to edu-
cate herself in the skilful performance of her
household duties. True, indeed, but ours is a
higher aim a loftier ambition. You would edu-
cate wives: we would educate mothers, which
education embraces all.
	She is counted right who nurtures and
cares for her mortal body, with a view to be-
ing strong perfect in health and physical
organism, that she may engender this perfection
upon her children, but nobler far she who
adds to this attribute intelligence, wisdom and
knowledge which alone gives refinement of
character.

[Column 2]

	Who has not tired of the chattering parrot-
like, affected, mincing, ways of so many of the
gentler sex? What wonder that such have
been deemed fit only for the band-box, the
wash-tub or the parlor shelf?
	But even allowing the average number of
the feminine sex to reach no higher degree of
intelligence than these, cannot something be
done for their improvement? Will not a
method of organization tend towards her eleva-
tion? Or, would such proceedure result in
making her masculine? If so let her be mascu-
line.
	Woman cannot attain to a great advanc-
ment with out the aid of her stronger brother.
	But, thank God! the intelligent of this mighty
sex favors every move for the advancement of
woman.
	Apostles, Prophets, and the wise and good of
all nations have hailed the approach of a
better day for woman kind.
	God has ordained that man should be the
stronger and stand at the head, and to him we
accord that right, nay, that duty.
	But was it the design of the Creator that
man should oppress her lest she might gain an
equality, or that she herself should crush every
lofty desire and high endeavor in order that
she might not rise above her woman's standard?
	Is He not able to carry out his own designs?
And granting to woman only a low ebb of in-
telligence,is it not her duty to cultivate that to
its highest stress?
	Is it possible that God has given to woman
talents and strength of mind to lie dormant
either because she does not see the necessity of
their cultivation; or because she has not the
courage to maintain her rights, and place
herself in that position where advancment
could be made.
	We will say  nothing to day about the place
woman occupies in this great Republic; nothing
about her meager remunerations they could
never be termed Salaries. Nothing about her
government by officers thrust upon her without
her voice or consent, but will speak only of her
platform socially; or rather the status of her
education.
	Strange as it may seem, we find arrayed
against our cause many of our own sex. We
have only two causes to advance for this un-
reasonable state.
	That woman who is opposed to us either
does not understand us, or is a coward lack-
ing courage to break through the flimsy
cobweb barriers, which retard her progress.
	"But" says a certain party, "We do not
want to make family trouble."
	Make known to every member of your family
the real object of your aspirations, and you
will have the hearty co-operation of every
father, son. husband, and brother.
	Let them know that our purpose is not a
selfish one: that,although you may not (in their
estimation) have the power to train and teach
men and women there is a time when you leave
them solely in our charge; that it is then the
condition of your mind and your power to in-
struct, that measures the greatness of the future
nation.
	When this is done they will proudly co-
operate with you. If they do uot keep it a
secret. Do not let the world know that you
are tied to, and associated with such nonentity
—such sordid intelligence.
	Woman! Do you not know it is you who
make the atmosphere from which future men
and women will imbibe purity and intelligence
or sin and ignorance? That it is yours to
make or mar the brightness of future lives?
That it is you who is expected to lay the founda-
tion for that great regeneration which will lead
us toward a perfect life.
	Do not misunderstand me. I do not mean to
detract from the glorious mission of man but
would if the time were mine portray my idea


of the happy union that should exist in the
labors of man and his sister woman: how their
lives should be extended hand in hand for the
mighty fulfillment of a glorious purpose.
