HELD AT MANTI, ON MAY 19, 1890.

	Called to attention at 10 A. M. by Pres.
Ellen Jakeman. Singing by the tabernacle
choir, "Spirit of God." Prayer by Mrs. L. L.
Dalton. Singing "I live for those who love
me"
	Mrs. Jakeman briefly stated the purposes
of the convention, the condition of the S. A. in
Manti etc. Expressed her faith in the justice
of woman's claim that she has a right to pro-
test against taxation without representation;
against bearing all the burdens and penalties
of citizenship without any of its privileges and
honors; but protested that woman is not seek-
ing, as some opposers maintain, to change
places with man, to rise only by pulling him
down. No! woman wants to be recognized as
an equal, a co-citizen, a co-sovereign. Main-
tained that the greatest good to the greatest
number is attained by joint effort, and that
man and woman must rise and fall together.
	The motion was now made and carried to
suspend rules, in order that no probable
blunders might mar the ease and freedom of
the proceedings.
	The next speaker was Mrs. Alvira Cox;
and your correspondent deeply regrets being
otherwise engaged and thus failing to take
the points of her admirable address.
	Mr. C. P. Larsen professed to feel proud be-
cause he had been invited to place himself on
record on the Woman Question. Called the
withholding of woman's entire equality before
the law an anwarrantable usurpation of power.
Refered to Nebuchadnezzar's image, and ex-
pressed belief that the toe-kingdoms could
never again become one, an universal king-
dom of strength and grace until woman's
voice and influence should be incorporated
among the powers that be. Hoped the ladies
would never falter because of opposition, but
feel assured that the hour of triumph and
bloodless victory will surely come, and they
who now oppose will be glad to ask for your
votes and your assistance. In this effort for
emancipation woman has truth and justice as
allies, no sophistries to establish, no sinister
motives to conceal; therefore just as surely as

[Column 2]

truth is mighty and will prevail, her cause
must win.
	A choice rendering of "Hannah Jane" by
Mrs. Adelia B. Cox Sidwell came next.
	Report from Fairview branch by Mrs. Eu-
phrasia Day.
	Reading of letter from Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, President of Utah W. S. A.
	Reading of a lecture by Henry Ward
Beecher on woman suffrage, by Mrs. L. L,
Dalton.
	Address by Bishop Wm. T. Reed.
	Men are in duty bound to honor and defend
women. Was not prepared to say that in this
respect she had always received justice at his
hauds, but felt prepared to say that it shall
not be withheld from her in future. Thought
the most promising feature in her case well
expressed in the  words, "He would be free,
himself must strike the blow." Begged that
the ladies would not attempt to leave us behind,
because wherever you go, we will surely fol-
low." (Applause.) His sympathies have always
been with the ladies, but is not sure he will
not be called upon to sympathize with their
brothers yet, for present indications are that
some men may be disfranchised here in Utah.
In that case if women gain the franchise
they will be the political superiors of men,
and men could try their hands at "silent in-
directinfluence" and being "the power behind
the throne." If women do not succeed in
gaining the right of franchise, then at least
we shall all be sailing in the same boat.
	F. R. Kenner Esq. opened his remarks
with an anecdote of Lorenzo Dow and a "crow-
ing hen;" but made amends for the ungallant
insinuation by asserting that if the ladies had
been "crowing," then he was fain to admit that
the performance was quite as good as that of the
greater number of "us roosters." Went on to
say that woman's achievements in literature,
art, medicine, law, and even in politics would
compare very favorably with those of man
with all his boasting. As a Southern man felt
free to assert that Mrs. Stowe's book, "Uncle
Tom's Cabin," did more to abolish slavery
than all other forces combined. "When a
woman will she will;" and if she is in earnest
to will her own emancipation, men must sur-
render sooner or later. Assured them that if
disfranchisement were to them half the bitter,
burning insult that it was to him, he wondered
at their patience. Hoped they would never
give up the struggle until they should have
achieved victory; also that if "Uncle Sam"
does send "us" back to the same boat, the
ladies will give us kindly welcome; but he
would rather be a dog and bay the moon than
a citizen without a franchise.
	Mrs. Dalton apologized for rising a second
time, but had made a grand discovery, and
wished to call attention to it. Had learned
from the remarks of Bishop Reed and Dr.
Kenner that "Uncle Sam" favors equality for
woman, at least in Utah. These two gentle-
men had both spoken about being "sent back"
to "the same boat" with the ladies. It is
plain that no one can be sent back without
first being ahead, and no one could be put
into the same boat with others unless he before
was in a different boat.  Since these gentlemen
have admitted that they are in a different boat,
and ahead of us, it may be that our dear old
Uncle's fine sense of justice will lead him to
take away their boat and force them to sail
with us. (Laughter.)
	Mrs. Snow desired to lift her voice in favor
of woman's rights. Spoke of her duties, her
services to the human race, and the depth of
her love and devotion. A man should place
woman not above his head, not beneath his
feet, but at his side in all places, even at the
polls. God is over all, and truth will triumph.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde of Spring City, was very
glad to see women seeking to gain knowledge

[Column 3]

which would fit and qualify them for wider
duties. Their motherhood demands cultiva-
tion, liberty and honor for its proper exercise.
All truly great men testify to the strong
influence of their mothers. We have many
friends among the best of men, and more than
that, in the days of Joseph Smith the Prophet,
a key had been turned in the door of woman's
limitations, and she should surely emerge from
her prison house of pain.
	Pres. Jakeman said her own highest ambi-
tion was to be a true mother to her children,
and it was with this end in view that she
sought to become endowed with full liberty,
and full equality with her fellow-citizens.
Did not believe it possible for a human being
to be limited to a very narrow sphere and yet
do a mother's perfect part. Refering to the
sayings of previous speakers that men would
surely follow wherever women go, she said if
that be true, then women have need to be very
careful where they go. Believed nothing
would so completely conservatize woman as
for men to deliberately follow her lead. Oppo-
nents of Woman Suffrage never object to
letting woman follow armies and mingle with
men of every stamp to wait on them in hospitals.
and bind up their wounds on ghastly battle
grounds; or earn her bread at weating, grind-
ing ill paid toil; and the more cruelly men
sneer at our efforts to inform our minds on
executive and judicial business, the more I, for
one, suspect them of desiring to trade upon our
ignorance for their own petty ends. Had no idea
when a year ago this little band was organized
to co-operate with others in the effort to set
women on terms of equality with men, that
the United States would so soon become an
ally; but did not approve of the plan of hold-
ing the front ranks back; though it would be
better to bring the rear ranks forward.
Wished Dr. Kenner not to let his grief be
wild about his dismal prospects but reflect that
every minority is practically disfranchised,
and not relieved of any of the duties of citizen-
ship. Felt very grateful for all the kind en-
couragement this particular association had
received from the best men in the county;
also to the visitors, the musicians, and all who
had contributed to the success and pleasure
of the convention.
	By-laws read and amended.
	Officers for the second year elected.
	Dr. Kenner asked and received permission to
publish his own report of the proceedings in
the Manti Sentinel. Announced the Convention
adjourned for one year.
	Singing "Lord Dismiss us."
Benediction by Mrs. Rebecca Wareham.


