REFLECTIONS.
[Suggested on reading “Woman’s Thoughts
and Woman’s Work” in the EXPONENT Oct.
15th 1889.]
	Surely women have and are doing much for
the advancement of the great work of the last 
days: women will certainly have the credit
awarded them of taking the lead in many 
important things in these days as well as in
former days. A woman first suggested the
idea of a benevolent society which resulted in
in the organization of a Relief Society bless
her noble memory, then the saintly Eliza R.
Snow traveled thousands of miles to get
branches established, sparing no time to in-
struct the sisters how to set them in order and
under the guidance of the Prophets Joseph and
Brigham have done a great and good work.
Paul said the woman is the weaker vessel,
which we admit, but the Lord says I will take 
the weak things to confound the wise monarchs
and potentates of the age. Thus we might go
on enumerating the deeds of noble women.
But what are the women of Utah doing to
day some wandering in exile, others, bless
their noble memory, traveling through cold
 and storm wearing themselves out in old[-]rage
to teach and instruct those of less experience,
speaking comforting words of peace and con-
solation to the sick and afflicated, causing many
to rise from sick beds and go on their way
rejoicing. These and many other good things
we might mention are some of woman’s work,
not to mention the training of the noble spirits
oft committed to her care, who sometimes a
little wayward and reckless take so much of
her attention,but sill a mother will struggle 
with odds to gain the goal and save the dear,
her dear ones. The subject of woman's work
is endless it is eternal, it emanated from the 
throne of God was much of it no doubt planned
for them there,the work of the beloved mother
of our Savior was planned there, also that of
many other illustrious women of this and 
other ages. The spirits of the noble women of 
this age were reserved to come and do the
work they are now so well performing. Then
all should be up and awake to every duty 
devolving upon them not letting one oppor-
tunity pass where they can do good. The
night is far spent already the day star is dawn-
ing: the cry “go forth to meet the Bridegroom 
will soon be heard, then with the oil of good 
works in our vessels and our lamps trimmed
and burning, oh how happy how joyful can
we meet the dear ones gone before who have
long waited our absence.
	ELIZABETH B. SMITH
	Logan, May 12, 1890.


