HOUSEKEEPING.

	Housekeeping is one of the most important
duties devolving upon the young lady, wife or
mother. It does not consist wholly in cleanli-
ness; nor does it depend solely upon economy.
It takes patience, love, tidiness, ambition, and
cheerfulness; and above all a will not to be
called an idler. Why not have some elegance
even in a humble cot, yet there must be clean-
liness, which is the especial elegance of the poor.
Beauty is not all yet that it should be in
social and domestic life, in art and science, yet
we cannot scarcely pass the door of a friend's
house, but that we can tell whether resides
there a person of taste, or untidiness. There
should be an air of neatness, arrangement and
refinement, which would give a thrill of
pleasure. There should be a flower in the
window, or a picture on the wall, to show taste.
The furniture though common, should be free
from dust. The art of living extends to all
the economies of the household. There is not
always profusion, or great variety of eatables,
but all should be clean and wholesome.
Everything should be clean enough to cause


your appetite to become at once excited. You
can look into homes of another class, and you
will see neither taste or order. The expendi-
ture may be large, yet you do not feel "at
home" there. Books, shawls, hats, and stock-
ing in course of repair are thrown down about
the place. Two or three chairs are loaded,
with clothing; the rooms are in confusion. No
matter how much is spent, taste is yet wanting
by the manager of the household. It may be
a humble cot, and its doors darkened by
poverty; but it can be sweetened by good order,
and a proper means of organization. House-
work is of course principally controlled by
womankind, therefore a great responsibility
is resting upon her kind. The first duties of
women in the household capacities is to be use-
ful with their fingers in the simple manufacture
of clothing, cooking etc., etc.
	Perseverance is another useful trait in house-
keeping. When we know of a good plan we
should make use of it and adhere to it.
Punctuality is another qualification worthy
of our remembrance. How many unpleasant
words and deeds would be avoided if more at-
tention was paid to this virtue. Housekeeping
is a science of loving, helping, forethought and
calculation.
	Yours respectfully,
		JULIAETT WOOD.
	Mar. 23rd, 1890.


