SNOWF[-]AKE STAKE.
	The Relief Soci[-]y Conference of the Snow-
flake Stake was h[-]ld at Snowflake, May 31st,
1890. After si[-]ging and prayer Pres. Emma
S. Smith welco[-]ed all to conference and ex-


[Column 1]

﻿pressed pleasure in meeting once more with
the sisters.
	Lois Bushman, of St. Joseph, spoke on the
training of children and advised the mothers,
who are unable to explain the principles of the
Gospel, to read biography, that they may have
a knowledge of the lives of the good and
great and thus be able to show them to the
little ones in such a way as to create a desire
to imitate their examples.
	Mary J. West, of Snowflake, said the sisters
show by their lives that they are trying to be
saints. We cannot comprehend the magnitude
of this work unless we are filled with the Holy
Spirit. The Savior said: "Pray without ceas-
ing." If we do this and attend meetings
regularly we will be pretty sure to be in the
line of duty. Compared the advantages of
education that the children of to-day have,
with those that were afforded to their parents
twenty years ago, and thought as there was
much given there would be much expected of
the rising generation.
	Verbal reports of the Taylor and Pinedale
branches of the R. S. were given by Frances
R. Thompson and Sophia Johnson. Both of
these branches are prospering, but at Taylor
the attendance is very small considering the
number enrolled.
	Lucy H. Flake of Snowflake and Ellen
Greer, St. Johns Stake, also addressed the
meeting.
	Counselor Emily J. Lewis spoke on  the
necessity of living so as to claim the blessings
of our Heavenly Father. Counselor Sarah
Driggs spoke upon the importance of a mother's
mission and of her giving suitable instruc-
tions to her children.
	Sister Jemima W. Smith was pleased to
have the privilege of meeting in conference.
Mentioned Heber C. Kimball's prophecy con-
cerning the time when we would not be per-
mitted to hold meetings. Her parents died
when she was young but her mother had
taught her true principles. She had learned
to read from the Testament and obtained her
knowledge of arithmetic by the numbers of
chapters and verses. She said her great aim
in life was to work for the dead. Had had
but little association of kindred on earth and
was desirous of meeting those who had gone
before.
	Sister Phebe Kartchner said: "No matter
how much wealth or education we may have
we will not be happy, or be able to do much
good unless we have a good honest heart. I
trust we will be faithful and true as our
mothers have been. The Gospel is worth liv-
ing for; it brings joy and comfort to our hearts
and homes. By reading or praying we are
often enabled to drop the cares of life and
then go on with our work more cheerfully."
	Statistical and Financial reports were read.
The officers of the Stake and the various
wards were presented and sustained.
	Pres. Emma S. Smith was desirous of living
so as to meet the dear ones on the other side.
Hoped while on earth she would be able to
do good. Was thankful to have had honest
parents and for the day in which we live.
Spoke at some length on our being prepared
to meet the Redeemer at his coming and the
happiness we have in teaching our children
the principles of the Gospel.
	A few very interesting remarks were made
by Pres. Lorenzo H. Hatch after which con-
ference was adjourned for six months.
	June 1—there was a meeting in the even-
ing for the  sisters. There were many in-
teresting subjects spoken upon. Among them
were the duties of wives and mothers, implicit
confidence in our Heavenly Father and the
necessity of attending meetings. All were
well paid for coming and expressed a desire to
ive nearer to the Lord. A good spirit pre-

[Column 2]

vailed and it seemed a time of rejoicing and
thanksgiving.
