FIRST OF JUNE.
	The first day of June the children of the Latter-
day Saints are beginning to recognize as Primary
day and throughout the several Stakes of Zion it
is coming to be observed as the childrens’ holi-
day for the Primary Associations.  They gather
for festivities and to have a good time generally
in some park, wood or large garden or hall, and
dancing, games &c., are indulged in by the little
folks, and those who have them under their care,
and no pains is spared to make the day enjoyable.
In honor of the anniversary of President Brigham
Young’s birthday it is a very fitting and beautiful
tribute to his memory that the children of Zion
rejoice; certainly all Israel have had reason to
honor and bless the memory of this great pioneer
and colonizer, who led the people into the valleys
of the mountains, and raised the flag of the nation,
the emblem of liberty and freedom upon the
loftiest peak of these everlasting hills that sur-
round this beautiful valley.
	Making June first a regular holiday for the
little people, will impress the minds of the child-
ren now growing up, and who have never had
the privilege of seeing Brigham Young, with a
love and reverence for his memory that reading
and teaching could not accomplish half so well.
More and more every day the great work per-
formed by him is dawning upon the minds of the
people at large, “a man of destiny” a man of
power and of wonderful influence was Brigham
Young, and above all a man favored of God, and
beloved by the people over whom he was called
to preside as Prophet seer and revelator.
	It was as a tribute to the birthday of the Presi-
dent and as a recognition of his position upon the
woman question, that the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
was first issued on that day June first, and he
gave the paper its name.  He distinctly manifested
his approval of woman’s free and unbiased ex-
pression of views on all subjects and was anxious
that the sisters should have a paper through
which they might speak freely and discuss the
questions of the day.  Already the women of
Utah had cast their votes for more than two years
and the establishment of a woman’s paper he
realized would strengthen their influence and be
educational in a great degree; would render valu-
able assistance to the Relief Society, and other
organizations that had been founded.
	From personal knowledge the writer is fully
aware that Brigham Young believed in the ad-
vancement and higher education of women; and
only shortly before his death spoke to some of his
family in regard to the sisters going out into the
world to lecture on “Mormon” subjects upon the
public platform, mentioning in this connection
some of his own daughters.
	That a great future lies before the women of
this Church there is no doubt, and it is proper


that they should prepare themselves for coming
events that they may not be taken unawares. The 
organizations of women that have been formed
here and everywhere throughout Zion give the
sisters excellent opportunites for thought and
reasoning and expression of views and opinions,
and through the womens’ papers they can give
the benefit of their ideas and experience to others
and thereby accomplish a greater good.
	The sisters should by all means maintain the
papers published in the interest of women for 
advocating the principles of truth and justice, and 
defending the right at all times however un-
popular it may be to do so.


