OUR MOUNTAIN HOME.

	In contemplating the blessings of our
Heavenly Father and the beauties of nature
our admiration is particularly drawn out in
viewing the magnificence of our lofty moun-
tains, thereby expanding the mind with a sense
of their vastness and grandeur; "standing as
they do on the East and on the West of us
like sentinels guarding the towers of Zion," or
over enchanted ground, filling our minds with
a sense of safety from all impending disasters

[Column 2]

such as floods, tornadoes, etc., which are so
prevalent in the world in this dispensation,
thus fulfilling the words of the Lord to the
Prophet Joseph who in speaking of the gather-
ing to these mountains says that "it may be
for a defence and for a refuge from the storm,
and from wrath when it shall be poured out
without mixture upon the whole earth; there-
fore let Zion rejoice while those who do
wickedly shall mourn."
	Then as the eye gradually descends what do
we behold, the lovely fertile valleys of Ephriam
which for so many years had lain an arid
waste, devoid of vegetation, parched with the
sun of many summers,now in all the richness of
her beauty, delighting the eye of the beholder
whatever direction he may chance to turn, no
more an arid desert but filled with the
bounties of heaven.—a choice land above all
others,abounding with happy homes and grate-
ful hearts, where the youth, the middle-aged
and the aged respond together in songs of joy
for the goodness of our God to us "for verily
Jacob doth flourish in the wilderness."
	See our lovely Temples rearing their towers
heavenward smiling down blessings upon all
who enter there with honest hearts. Our
beautiful Tabernacles where all both young
and old can be edified and instructed by
gathering there and listening to the voice of
the servants of God. Our numerous places of
industry. The cattle upon a thousand hills,
our farms and gardens filled with choice vege-
tation, luxuriant trees, verdant shrubs,and last
but not least Utah's Best Crop our numerous
but beautiful children, the joy and delight of
our homes, may they grow in purity and good-
ness and prove a source of happiness to their
parents throughout the endless ages of etern-
ity.
	Then while enjoying so many favors and
blessings of the Almighty let us show our ap-
preciation and gratitude, not only in words but
in deeds that characterize the name of a Lat-
ter-day Saint by being diligent in observing
the laws of the Creator,in keeping His command-
ments, by loving one another, helping the poor
and needy, visiting and comforting the sick
with a kind word and a cheerful countenance,
these are a few of His commands but how
much we can do to lighten the burthens of
each other if we keep the spirit of God burn-
ing in our bosoms and do not dwarf it by
letting the cares of the world over-balance the
finer and purer instincts of our nature; by these
little acts of kindness we win the love of our
fellows, and enjoy a richer portion of the
blessings of our Father, for charity never
faileth to secure the promised reward.
	The rule of the wicked is drawing to a close
and the day fast approaching when the nations
of the earth shall honor Zion, and shall say
surely Zion cannot fall for the hand of the
Lord is there; the next thing is for each one
of us to ask ourselves the question, am I one
of the pure in heart for surely none other can
belong to Zion and to become such is an every
day labor with a firm determination within us
to set our faces as flint against evil and the
vanities of this world having the work of the
kingdom ever in view thereby adding to our-
selves renewed faith in the Lord and in his
promises for protection under all circum-
stances, then will the people of the Lord re-
joice upon the mountains and flourish upon
the hills and will more fully appreciate the
place provided for us by the Lord. Our
Mountain Home.
		ANNIE N. BOWRING,
	Brigham City.


MRS. REBECCA T. SWENNING, of Davenport,
Iowa, has been allowed a patent for her
water-color paint, especially adapted for fine
portrait work.


