BY "ONE OF THE GOSLINGS."

[Respectfully inscribed to "One of Mather Goose's De-
scendants." Written for the benefit of "Father Gander's
Descendants."]

Where is "Woman's Sphere?" Easy question to ask,
But to answer, ah, me! what a gigantic task.
To form argument sharp pointed, and of such weight,
They can work their way through the masculine pate,
Will be work for "descendants" little and great.
And should one succeed in finding its way,
Through some "long standing" prejudice. what would they
	say?
Would this be their verdict, when pet theories fall:
"Well, she was the biggest goose of them all."
"So mote it be." It matters not what they say,
If only one unjust, erroneous idea's torn away,
Thus aiding the vision of all to see clear,
Woman knows when she's reached her limit of "sphere."
The mishaps to our "sphere searching maiden" befell,
Was because of not asking those who could tell.
To gain a true answer. we in reason suppose,
The question must be asked of the person who knows;
And from Adam's time down it has been understood,
Man sees but slowly what is for his best good.
He scents danger afar, from which he may flee;
Whilst a blessing be near he's unable to see.	
So slam went the doors to shut woman out,
"She will rob professions of dignity. Turn things inside
	out."
So they barred the front entrance; but very soon found,
Her wit and her feet could find a way round.
Poor man! Could he see an inch from his face,
Would see, elevation of woman means elevation of race,
And help with a will, through tangle and brier;
Helping her, he would naturally raise himself higher,
For he being made of much stronger clay,
Would go in advance to clear the rubbish away.
But hesitating he stands, in scorn or in wrath,
Leaving disfranchised woman to "break her own path."
She has proven her ability to grasp higher knowledge,
Thus proving her sphere extends to the college
O'er and o'er they repeat. "Home is her sphere."
Well, my dear man, have you no interest here?
Do you forget your own mother? Your wife's winning
	charms?
The kiss of your babies? Their soft clinging arms?
No. You love them. In health they are ever your care;
In hours of sickness, long night vigils you share.
Thus it was, is, and will be, from first morn to last sun,
For "home sphere" was never intended for one.
You say, "we are so dull:" you ever must tell,
You have work to do in the big "sphere" as well;
Unravel knotty problem, bring hidden meanings to light,
And, to improve every talent is your God given right.
He who gave to man talent, bids him improve,
So he must not stand still, but move, onward move.
When you talk of "God-given right," no one demurs,
But, let's ask, how came woman by hers?
If it be for man only, the task to unbar,
The path leading up to the most distant star.
And all the deep mysteries of science unroll,
Why was given to woman, sight, sense and soul,
That looking out toward worlds revolving in space,
Seeing meteor follow meteor in swift silent chase,
A flame lit her soul, piercing down through her eyes,
And raising her hands reached out toward the skies,
With desire for knowledge to read them aright,
Explore mystic paths through the shadow to light,
Whether above in the heavens, or beneath the green sod,
Whence the fountain and source? Was it the same God?
"There are depths we can't fathom," you say, but don't
	mean,
Why, bless you, you're not half so bad as you seem.
You know, Maria Mitchell's hand loosened some bars,
And confess, she intelligently looked at the stars.
When woman prove worthy of entrance here,
Does it not prove that science belongs to her sphere?
You say "it is hers to wash, cook and bake."
Well, sirs, with this "sphere" you great liberties take.
If we are not to meddle with what you call your own,
Why not set the example and let "our traps" alone?
Who cooks for Vanderbilt? Men! List what I say,
They get all the "cook jobs" that draw big pay.
And who are the bakers? You well understand,

[Column 2]

Men, daubing their pastry all over the land.
How is it with the washing? You very well know,
You have dabbled in our suds, even Foo, Lee, Shang,
	Low.
So in this "limited" sphere, that to woman you deal
Your encroachments amount, sirs, almost to a steal.
Does it seem selfish? Or, like holding ill gotten pelf,
Taking great "chunks" of our sphere, and keep yours to
	yourself?
You say, "This talk of encroachment is all so absurd,
'Tis your right. And woman's lucky if she keeps a third.
"But, let the 'descendants,' if they will, go to college,
And of law, science and physic reach the limit of knowl-
	edge.
Grant her this. But legislation, men never will hand her,
That belongs solely to the sphere of the 'gander.'
She's too fractious, too impulsive for cool legislation,
Would upset political 'stewpots' for the entire nation.
Monopolies could not stand her blustering winters,
Her legislation reducing the whole thing to splinters,
Not by strength, but mismanagement, for she's weak you
	will own
As a 'puling infant,' and never will stand all alone."
Hold! You're all out of breath; now please let me speak.
We are in our infancy; know we are weak;
But wouldn't it amuse you, when your young boy,
First seeing the "little sister,' thinks her only a toy?
Looking critically at her, in her very small bed,
 Contemptuously remarks: "She can't hold up her head."
Seeing limbs, limp as rags, more amusing his talk,
Ending with the verdict: "That thing never can walk."
Is aught taken from his dignity as time's wonders repeat.
She can hold up her head and use her two feet?
No. And forgetting his prophecy, like a brave little man.
Proud of seeing his sister walk as far as she can.
You say, "Woman prates of her 'rights' like a crank, a
	fanatic.
And on the question of temperance talks like a lu-nat-ic,
Revealing want of tact, in making a beam of a mote,
And 'bottle pockets' she won't have inside her coat.
That settles the question. Of this make a note,
Women never, no never, no never can vote!
For this is plain showing to 'ganders' of all classes,
She can't comprehend the wants and needs of the masses."
Yes, of cranks and fanatics, we have our full share,
They come in all "shades, styles and size;" bob up here
	and there,
In most spheres of life. Yet as we compare
Them with another specimen, the species seems rare,
Met with, occasionally, but fools, everywhere.
With "suffrage," woman may manage as she's managed
	before;
Plod through the slush, til she reach the back door.
Failing here, can you keep her in uncertain twilight?
No. She'll go up in a balloon, and come down through
	the skylight,
And once gaining entrance, will prove even here
The right of a small bit, to patch up her sphere.
Over all discomforts, fain would you weep,
Shouting, "Who'll wash the dishes, dust up and sweep?
Lonely our home of all comfort bereft,
In the name of great goodness, what have we left?
All glory, all honors, all blessings of life
Have walked off to congress, or the polls, with 'our' wife.
Now, who talks like a lunatic? You howl like a loon.
Will each individual woman reach for the moon?
In your "right royal" sphere what is the trend?
Toward the "up lands" of life, does each foot-path tend?
No. That "up lands" are man's right, for "men only" is a
	myth;
All surely will "get there," who have the "wherewith."
And women having "wherewith," for the "up lands" are
	bent.
"Proving up on her claim," can't she there pitch a tent?
Some will strive for the summit of wisdom's high hill,
Some will cling to the valleys and "vacancies" fill,
Many march to the "heights," should woman's cause be
	the winner.
But enough will be left to look after the dinner.—
These themes have been worn out, again and again,
But, they are the "closet skeletons" and ever have been;
So it may be "policy," now and then through the battle.
To open the door and set their dry bones a rattle—
But we'll now close the door; I have finished my task,
And leaving all lightness and jesting, I seriously ask,
Where is "Woman's Sphere?" And solemnly declare,
There is no limit. Her sphere is everywhere!
Everywhere? Yes, from Beer-sheba to Dan; 
Deny it; exclude her from it, if you can!


