THE FACULTY.
has continued to hold regular sessions during the
term, besides which a number of special meetings
have been called as occasion required. The re-
cord of the proceedings of this body are before
you.

	Brother Clare W. Reid followed with an instru-
mental selection, "Silvery Waves," rendered in
his usual creditable manner.
	Elder George Reynolds expressed his pleasure
at witnessing the extension of this system of edu-
cation among the people of Zion; and made some
excellent remarks.	*	 *
	Sister Zina Y. Card followed with an address
replete with tender feeling toward the students,
and with excellent advice especially directed to
the young ladies. She dwelt upon the associa-
tions for good which are formed among fellow
students, and expressed a hope that the influence
of these would be a guiding star of the students'
lives.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke to the young ladies
of the school, dwelling particularly upon the
necessity of personal purity, and of avoiding the
spirit of fault-finding, prevalent among some of
Latter-day Saints.
	Elder Wm. B. Dougall, in behalf of the Stake
Board, returned thanks to the teachers for their
labors, and to the students for their appreciation
of the work done during the past year.	*	*
	President Wilford Woodruff followed with an
inspiring address, congratulating alike teachers and
pupils on the work of the past, and assuring them
of his hearty co-operation, and that of the general
authorities associated with him, for the future.
He referred in a calm and dispassionate manner
to the present condition of the Latter-day Saints
as a community—despoiled of their goods and
real estate under cover of an unconstitutional law
Such a state of affairs may be taken as evidence
that this is in very deed the work of God. In
spite of these material losses the people were
willing and able to support schools for their child-
ren in which the principles of religion and of true
theology could be taught. The speaker pictured
the future awaiting the youth of the present day, 
and urged diligence and unremitting effort on
their part toward a thorough preparation for the 
great future.
	The exercises of Field Day, consisting of an
excursion to Calder's Farm, were announced,
and all were invited to join the students in the
trip.
	The choir sang "An Angel from on High," and
the benediction was pronounced by Bishop W.
T. Reid.


