[Vol11 | March 1924 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: The B. Y. U. Leadership Nursery]
The  B.  Y.  U.  Leadership  Nursery 
By  Laura  Gardner 
"Babies  big  and  babies  small, 
Babies  short  and  babies  tall; 
Babies  so  tiny  they  can't  sit  up, 
Babies  who  drink  from  a  silver  cup; 
Babies  that  laugh,  and  babies  that  crawl, 
Babies  that  eat,  sleep,  creep,  cry  and  all. 
Oh,  what  in  the  world  is  half  so  sweet 
As  a  baby!" 
Dark  and  light,  pale  and  rosy,  sad  and  smiley  babies,  one 
finds  all  types  in  the  Day  Nursery  at  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity during  Leadership  Week,  for  room  38E  is  a  veritable 
Baby  Land.  Babies  are  checked  in  from  the  tiny  cuddley  ones 
of  six  weeks  in  tatted  hoods  and  woolly  shawls,  who  must  be 
guarded  with  greatest  care,  to  the  impish,  dancing-eyed,  red- 
headed boy  of  six  and  one-half  years  who  can  tweak  an  ear  here, 
snatch  a  ball  there,  turn  on  the  gas  jets,  and  upset  the  sand  table 
in  less  than  one  minute,  and  be  completely  absorbed  in  a  color 
magazine  in  the  far  corner  when  the  culprit  is  looked  for. 
What  a  picture  is  revealed  to  interested  spectators!  One 
hundred  happy  children  playing  together  in  the  roomy  laboratory. 
Surely  the  biology  room  has  never  exhibited  more  interesting 
specimens  for  research  and  study!  The  kiddy  coops  and  kars 
are  all  in  active  motion.  The  sand  tables  resemble  busy  ant  hills. 
The  group  in  the  corner  are  fashioning  valentines  of  their  own 
design;  in  the  center  of  the  room  a  noisy  circle  plays  "Here  we 
go  round  the  mulberry  bush,"  while  here  and  there  an  A.  W.  S. 
story  teller  holds  her  little  group  of  worshipers  spellbound  with 
tales  of  "The  Three  Bears,"  "Beauty  and  the  Beast,"  and 
"Grandfather  Frog." 
Busy  sentinels  are  on  guard  to  keep  tiny  tots  within  bounds. 
There  is  an  occasional  escape  and  mother's  previous  pets  are 
found  balancing  on  their  stomachs  over  the  banisters  trying  to  see 
what  is  taking  place  in  the  halls  three  flights  below.  Apples  and 
cookies  serve  as  a  means  of  coaxing  adventurous  children  back 
to  safety  in  the  nursery  where,  most  of  the  day,  the  hall  near 
the  door  is  thronged  with  boys  interested  in  the  nursery  and  the 
nurses,  who  prevent  escapes  from  under  the  table  near  the  door 
by  blockading  the  passage  to  freedom. 
Across  the  hall  in  the  Library  is  the  bookworm,  the  con- 
scientious student  who  cannot  forget  mid-term  exams  and  term