[Vol11 | March 1924 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Relief Society, the First Woman's Organization | Author: Alice Louise Reynolds]

The Relief Society Birthday
The 17th of March, 1924, marks the eighty-second anniversary
of t he organization of the Relief Society, a fact that suggests
that we are within hailing distance of the century mark.
The words "opportunity" and "responsibility" loom very
large on our banner as we march along. It is a great privilege to
have the opportunity to carry the gospel of Christ, and the gospel
of culture, to every woman in the world who will accept of our offering.
Iti s a tremendous responsibility to be charged with having
the vision that is part and portion of the leadership that must
carry this great organization forward and onward in this day of
increasing enlightenment and progress. But we are entrusted with
this very responsibility. Well might we stagger under the load,
were it not that, like Nephi of old, we believe that God will grant
the blessing we need, provided we do our part.
The Magazine extends hearty greetings to all officers and
members of the Relief Society, throughout the world, on the
eighty-second birthday anniversary of this great organization.
The Woman's Idea
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman quite startled the public when
she told them that nearly one-half of the world's power had been
kept within four walls. She insisted that it be freed, stating that
the creative power of the woman is as much needed in the making
of the world as the creative power of the man.
An incident in the recent history of Chicago is to the point.
A movement for a five-million-dollar bond issue was launched.

The men wanted the issue for the making of a zoological garden,
and, in keeping with their desires, all the big papers of Chicago
were supporting their project. A woman connected with the
Chicago schools chanced to know that the room provided for the
school children of that city was wholly inadequate, consequently
she suggested that a counter campaign be inaugurated for a five
million-dollar bond issue for the building of school houses, and
that the slogan of the campaign be, "Monkeys or Kids."
The school people had no opportunity for publicity through
the daily papers, so that they had to be contented with such publicity
as might be afforded apart from the press. They tagged people
on the streets ; h ad processions of the children, in which they carried
banners, setting forth their desires. The thing "took like wildfire."
Everywhere, in the streets, on the cars, in the shops, everybody
was asking everybody else, "Who are you for, monkeys or
kids?"
Election day came. The issue for the school bond went over
two to one, and the issue for the zoo was defeated two to one.
Had there not been a woman in Chicago who knew the school situation,
and in addition to that, knew how to make the school situation
known to others, in all probability the children would have
continued to suffer for housing ; the bond issue would have been
put over for the zoo, and the monkeys would have won the day.
Leadership Week at the Brigham Young
University
Sixty-six stakes were represented at the leadership week
this year, marking a considerable advancement over the attendance
last year. Everywhere one looked Relief Society workers
were in evidence. We feel sure that we shook hands with not
fewer than twenty stake presidents, during this week, as well as
other representatives. To be sure, the greater number of workers
were from the nearby stakes, but it is surprising how widely distributed
the representation was. One saw representatives one
moment from Canada, another from Idaho, and so on, from Cache
Valley to Box Elder, Tooele, Uintah, Tintic, South Sanpete and
Panguitch, and many other stakes not mentioned that lie in between
and beyond to the south.
The opinion is quite prevalent that this was the best leadership
week that the institution has conducted. The General Board
was represented by Counselors Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y.
Robison, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds.
In addition to lectures given by practically every member of
the faculty, there were forty-two lecturers from the outside. It is
felt that there was not so much visiting done this year as formerly,

but that persons coming selected a group of courses for the week
and attended each day.
Notable among the features of the week was the great number
of paintings from Utah artists found in the halls and rooms
of the plant. The music was of an exceptionally high order. In
the evening entertainments the visitors came in contact with the
drama, the pageant, chorus and orchestra music. The slogan of
the week had been "Leadership for Community Soul Building,"
