[Vol11 | March 1924 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The B.Y.U. Leadership Nursery | Author: Laura Gardner]

"Babies big and babies small,
Babies short and babies tall;
Babies so tiny they can't sit up,
Babies that laugh, and babies that crawl,
Babies that eat, sleep, creep, cry and all.
Oh, what in the world is half so sweet
As a baby!"
Dark and light, pale and rosy, sad and smiley babies, one
finds all types in the Day Nursery at the Brigham Young University
during Leadership Week, for room 38E is a veritable
Baby Land. Babies are checked in from the tiny cuddley ones
of six weeks in tatted hoods and woolly shawls, who must be
guarded with greatest care, to the impish, dancing-eyed, redheaded
boy o f six and one-half years who can tweak an ear here,
snatch a ball there, turn on the gas jets, and upset the sand table
in less than one minute, and be completely absorbed in a color
magazine in the far corner when the culprit is looked for.
What a picture is revealed to interested spectators! One
hundred happy children playing together in the roomy laboratory.
Surely the biology room has never exhibited more interesting
specimens for research and study! The kiddy coops and kars
are all in active motion. The sand tables resemble busy ant hills.
The group in the corner are fashioning valentines of their own
design; in the center of the room a noisy circle plays "Here we
go round the mulberry bush," while here and there an A. W. S.
story teller holds her little group of worshipers spellbound with
tales of "The Three Bears," "Beauty and the Beast," and
"Grandfather Frog."
Busy sentinels are on guard to keep tiny tots within bounds.
There is an occasional escape and mother's previous pets are
found balancing on their stomachs over the banisters trying to see
what is taking place in the halls three flights below. Apples and
cookies serve as a means of coaxing adventurous children back
to safety in the nursery where, most of the day, the hall near
the door is thronged with boys interested in the nursery and the
nurses, who prevent escapes from under the table near the door
by blockading the passage to freedom.
Across the hall in the Library is the bookworm, the conscientious
student who cannot forget mid-term exams and term papers long enough to really enjoy life, who scowls at the awful
din that comes from the nursery and hunts the remotest corner
of the Library, then finally resorts to absorbent cotton from the
bacteriology laboratory to shut out from his busy brain the noise
of the hundred young hopefuls who are making the rafters ring
next door.
To the Associated Women Students of the University who
have cheerfully turned nurses, the babies are not the only item
of interest. They not only study babies, but parents as well.
There is the anxious mother who hesitates between quieting her
crying infant and getting a seat in general assembly. Next
comes the proud father with his group of three or four that he
gladly checks with the responsible looking girls at the door, and
goes contentedly away to his lecture, free now to go where he will.
Between sessions the doors are thronged with mothers coming
back to make sure that all is right in the nursery. Lest parents
get confused in finding their charges in the over-filled room, careful
nurses tag each infant with his name and number and no family
can find an exchanged member after a day in the nursery.
The tag gives the infant a real thrill and in many cases the owner
refuses to give up his precious label when he is checked out.
"Do you get paid for this?" a father asks, and the willing
nurses open their eyes wide at the mere thought. Get paid ? — Yes,
in the joy that comes from a day in the Nursery with a group of
happy, laughing children whose parents can leave them there and
feel satisfied and confident that they will be well cared for until
called for. The thanks of the grateful mother and her smile,
full of good will are enough. Indeed, no department during
Leadership Week has more charms than the Day Nursery.