[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON IV - Social Service - LATER ADOLESCENCE]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) LATEP ADOLESENCE The period from eighteen to twenty-five years of age is known as later adolescence. In many respects it resembles the period of early adolescence, (13 to 18 years of age). The interest in the opposite sex is the dominant one. The feeling of independence or self-sufficiency is also strong in this period. The difference between the earlier and the later period is a matter of degree of physical and mental development and of the widening of experience and responsibility. We do not, for example, expect the boys and girls of the early adolescent period to engage in courtship, although they may be interested in the opposite sex as much as are those of later adolescence; nor do we want the youth of the early period to carry heavy responsibilities, although they may feel entirely capable of doing anything which father or mother. Can do. The difference, therefore, is not in the nature of their interest or in their ambition, or in the faith which they have in their own ability to know and to do things. The whole adolescent period is essentially one of growth, accompanied by the consciousness of new interests, new powers, and a feeling of self-sufficiency. The difference is essentially a matter of increased responsibility which the added years bring about. The New Responsibilities The young man who has reached the period of adolescence is confronted with vital problems which must soon be solved. He must now choose his life's companion. He must settle upon his life's vocation. He has the task of determining upon his political party, and the part he is to play in the great social world. All these and many other questions are daily placed before h-m. Some of these he may settle definitely, but others may be left as unsettled problems until later life. The success he attains in dealing with these questions will depend upon his natural judgment and his educational and social opportunities. Judgment and Thought It is very certain that there is no period in the lives of individuals when they receive such stimulation for thought as dur-  ing this period between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. We note that this is the time when the young people are doing their senior high school and college work. Those who are not in school should be stimulated to think and pass judgment upon the practical questions which are every day imposed upon them. Books, magazines, and the daily papers are available, and should tend to develop thought.. There is no longer an excuse for ignorance among the young people. The trouble, therefore, is not so much the lack of opportunities, although we must admit all young people do not have the same educational and social privileges, but it is a matter of getting them to make use of the opportunities which come to them. Above all it is a matter of getting them to use the experience and thought power which they possess. They need to apply more of the ordinary common sense, to use their judgment more and their impulses less, in solving the common yet vital problems that will present themselves. The Most Vital Problem of Later Adolescence Whether viewed from the standpoint of the individual's welfare, or that of the family, or society, or even the race, the question of selecting one's life companion is jthe most important problem of this period. As Latter-day Saints we view the problem as a sacred, religious obligation. The blessings of eternity are very closely linked to the principle of marriage. It is, therefore, very proper that courtship should not be carried on until men and women are sufficiently mature to realize its meaning. The early adolescent period, with its impulses and uncertainties, is not suitable to solve so important a problem. Even later adolescents seem not to view the problem with the seriousness which it deserves. The strong emotional elements which dominate this sacred relation between young men and young women make rational direction extremely difficult. "Love," writes the late Professor Henderson of the University of Chicago, "has illusions, for it idealizes its object; transforms the shallow, pretty girl into a creature of majesty and character; it catises a mean scamp to loom up in the brilliant fancy of a girl, in a mist magnified a thousand diameters, of moral greatness." In Shakespeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream" the queen, under the spell of a magic potion, loved a donkey. ? Nor are the conventional standards and customs more inducive to reflective control of courtship than are the blind instinctive emotions. In a recent number of the Utah High School Journal, we read the following description of courtship in our communities: ''The boy of eighteen is expected to make life in-  teresting for the girl of his choice. He is expected to talk about nothing of a serious nature. He is expected to reveal but ? one side, the humorous side. Should he talk about his business or his farm interests, he is too practical and unromantic. If he says a word about his political aims, he is too ambitious; if he talks much about religion, he is considered fanatical; and if he dares to reveal his conception of an ideal home, he is getting serious and will likely lose his suit. It is better for him to be a clown than a gentleman. "The girl is expected not to take seriously anything that he says. She must laugh at everything he tells her. * * * Parents are not generally expected to associate intimately with young people during this period, and that individual known as a chaperon is very unpopular in most circles of young people." The attitude here described has developed simply because parents and community leaders have treated the subject with too much levity. According to Coffin even "domestic infelicities serve as one of the standard subjects of the joke-smith, in the funny column and in the Sunday supplement of the daily press." A whole attitude toward this subject is well expressed by Tennyson: "To lead sweet lives in purest chastity, To love one maiden only, cleave to her, And worship her by years of noble deeds, Until they won her; for indeed I know Of no more subtle master under heaven Than is a maiden passion for a maid, Not only to keep down the base in man, But teach high thought, and amiable words, And courtliness, and the desire of fame, And love of truth, and all that makes a man." _ SUGGESTIVE READING E. A. Kirkpatrick: The Individual in the Making, Chapter 9. Henderson: Social Duties, pp. 22-22. Halt: _A Practical Sociology, Chapter 18. QUESTIONS 1. In what respect does later adolescence differ from early adolescence? In what respect are the natural interests of these periods the same?  2. 'Show that the ages from 18 to 25 are the years when young people are actually engaged in reflective thought. 3. Do the subjects of religion and courtship receive the thoughtful consideration which they deserve? If not, explain why they do not. 4. Show that honest, scientific pursuits do not lead to disbelief of jtrue religion. 5. Give your reason to support the position that faith in the gospel is based upon reflective thought as well as upon the feelings. ' 6. Give reasons to show that the problem of selecting a life's companion requires more than emotional or sentimental consideration. 7. What effect does the common habit of parents joking about matters of love have upon the minds of young people? 8. Show that the subject af courtship may properly be considered in religious meetings. 9. What are the customs of courtship in your own community? Has the Church any rule or discipline on the subject? 10. What can ibe done ot produce a purer, more sober and rational custom in the neighborhood? How do we deal with immoral men and women in the community?