[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Last Service Annie D. Palmer]

The Last Service Annie D. Palmer "Get whatever is needed, and lay my wife away as nice as you can. Nothing is too good for her. Brother Taylor will let you have it on account."' The sentence was spolzen in hoarse whispers, "See that she is clothed right." "Yes," answered the kind Relief Society woman, "We will see that she is clothed right." The man turned sadly away. The Rel'ef Society woman with tear-dimmed eyes, looked upon the peaceful countenance of the dead. Two little girls stole quietly in and stood beside her. Their gingham aprons were faded and torn. Their shoes were past repairing. True to the principles of real helpfulness, the woman began to size up the situation, with a view of doing the right thing in the case. She saw the bed from which the lifeless form had been lifted. It was covered with a quilt that was ragged. The home-made carpet on the floor was patched in several places with worn out overalls; and in one place with a piece of burlap. The furniture was rickety, the curtains were tattered. Poverty showed everywhere, grim and haunting. "Do you think Mrs. Senior will make the dress?" It was Mrs. Long who spoke. She had slipped into the room noiselessly only a moment before. The Relief Society worker did not answer. She was not thinking of the dress. Mrs. Long repeated the question: "Do you th'nk Mrs. Senior will make the dress?" I saw one she made for Mrs. Lawrence—really the most beautiful thing [ ever saw! The most wonderful silk, the softest shirrings and frills,—" "What did Mrs. Lawrence's dress cost?" "Oh, I don't know. One hates to think of cost in connection wi. H the dead. When we think that it is the last thing we shall ever do for Juliet—" Mrs. Long broke down in sobs. Juliet was her only sisver, nearly her own age. They had played together as children; they had almost lived together since they were grown. Their husbands were l'ke brothers, their children like one family. "But it isn't the last thing we shall do." The visitor spoke firmly. The sobbing sister raised her head. "Well, all but the flowers, and—" "No, my dear, you are wrong. There is more to do for her  now than ever. Here are her children, we must care for them. They must grow up to honor her name in the earth. There is her husband, he must be given the encouragment she used to give, must be helped to live worthy of her. Some time there wll be special temple rites for both of them. You may be permitted to participate in holy ordinances for her. These are the important things. I am inclined to think that the quality of the material with which we clothe our dead is as unimportant as is that which we wear in life. Shall we not buy an inexpensive fabric from which to make her temple robe and dress? We can get shoes for the children for the difference in price." The Relief Society worker put her arm tenderly about the shoulders of Mrs. Long as the latter answered: "My sister would say 'yes.' She certainly would say, 'yes'." A week later they all sat at dinner in Mrs. Long's modest dining room, when a letter was brought in for the bereaved husband. Mechanically he read the note and passed it to his sisterin-law. It was the undertaker's bill, and included a positive request that a substantial payment be made at once, in accordance with the business policy of the house. Four months ago the man would never have passed a note like that to any woman; but the long days and ted: ous nights of watching by the side of his suffering wife had unrterved him. He knew that some time—that soon, he must get his bearings and again take up the burden of life; but just now he was in that hopeless lull that often follows a terrific storm. He looked helplessly at Mrs. Long while she read. "Thank the Lord for the Relief Soc'ety," the woman said as she finished reading. "I have felt that we must certainly send back to them the small bag of quarter dollars they sent instead of flowers. Now I see that you must use it to pay on this bill, and so keep good your credit until you can go back to work. Come, - let us count the coins together." They counted the quarters for the first time, nearly two hundred of them, and as they did so they thought of the few withered flowers now dying on the new-made grave. The money represented other flowers that Juliet's friends would have purchased had the Relef Society woman not asked them to give quarters instead. The money was all returned later to be used in some other emergency; and the family had learned its lesson. Death is not the end. Funeral services are not the last services we can render. The tragedy of flowers and expensive funerals -is being enacied over and over again. In our sympathy and love we think  of this old and beautiful means of expression; and we use it sometimes for people who are in need of bread. Were it not more fitting in the case of parents, that we provide for them comfortably and care for them tenderly while they live; and that we see to it that their names are honored through our lives when they are gone? Were it not wiser when a loved companion departs, that we g: ve more consideration to those who are to continue the struggle of life, to whom privation is often 2 serious handicap? Even in the hearts of the well-to-do, would not a simple, soulful service for the dead, be more satisfying than the extravagant display which sometimes marks the occasion as one of vanity? Not by the words they say, And not by the flowers they strew, Shall a place, on the Judgment Day, Be awarded me or you; Not shall we care for praise or blame From curious crowds of men; For He rewards neither pomp nor fame, Who will sit in judgment then. So bring but a single flower And place on my bier, I pray; And speak at the final hour, Salvation to those who stray:; I shall not care, so my robe be white, What texture or weave it be; For the Lord I serve, if I serve Him right, Wi'l-provide what is fit for me. — The Protestant Episcopalian Church in the United States has been holding a conference at Portland, Oregon. The movement for greater recognition of women in the church, which has already resulted in a report by a joint commission favoring admission of women to the house of deputies, brought about the adoption, by the house of deputies in the general convention, of an amendment to a canon which will make it possible to license women as lay readers. Under this new rule it will be possible for women to read certain portions of the services of the church where no male clergyman is available, or they may assist clergymen. Women, however, will not be permitted to administer the sacraments of the church. If the house of bishops enacts this amendment, it will go into effect the first of next year.