[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: The Autumn Hails Sharp]
"autumn," an uncertain time, typifying the unpredictable, the colorful,
whirling, restless season of the year when activities which have been
slumbering in the hot, languorous days of summer are revived; when the
blood quickens in tempo with the biting winds without, and energy and
spirit are renewed. The keen expectancy of a new school year with
friendships and pleasures still untested, seems to pervade the very air. The
snatching of unlearned books, the rushing out to meet playmates, the
boisterous chatter of children, gaily attired in plaids and brilliant sweaters
to match the kaleidoscopic colors of the foliage, punctuates the stillness of
the morning. The noontide quiet is shattered by the calls of the released
boys and girls who run home, sniﬃng and exclaiming over the sharpness of
pepper-red chili sauce, the acrid tang of pickles or the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1945

cloying sweetness of preserves, and the unforgettable odor of freshly baked
bread. The dancing leaves outside the kitchen door cast a living applique of
shadow over the luncheon scene. Tempting samples from bottles whose
contents are to be more fully enjoyed in the long months ahead, make these
occasions ones to be cherished and recalled in future years.
Such sunny, bright days may be interrupted by days of winds and rain,
when the family gathers in close companionship around a crackling grate
ﬁre, and gratitude wells up in the hearts of the surrounding half circle for
the plenty and security found within the beloved home. And after such days
of blustery rains and squalls comes a ring of days, each one a jewel
reﬂecting russet, saﬀron, taﬀeta tans or tawny orange, with here and there
the glowing red of the sumac on the hill, all set in a gleaming band of
maple gold. The season of all seasons—Indian summer.
Then, as the days grow short and night shadows lengthen, the blaze of color
painted by the Master Artist is swept away by the mighty brush of winds,
and the mind comes to accept the changelessness of changes—of the
season, moods, and circumstances. Over the glory of the beauty that was
autumn imperceptibly but surely steals the gaunt, stark beauty of the
winter. One is . led to acknowledge the hand of the Lord over all in the
inevitableness and lightness of the changes that enter into the lives of his
children, as in the seasons, and to accept, with thankfulness, the sorrows, as
well as the joys, of mortality.
M.C.S.
AN UNWEEDED GARDEN
Caroline Eyiing Miner
How weary, stale, ﬂat, and unproﬁtable,
Seems to me all the uses of this wodd!
Fie on't! oh ﬁe, ﬁe! 'Tis an unweeded garden
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!