[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Plan Now Bag]

To be continued) Work Meeting Plan Now for Christmas DOLLS AND MENAGERIES OUT OF A SCRAP BAG LAST month on this page suggestions were given for holding a successful apron day in work meeting to help members style and make aprons for Christmas giving.
That activity had been planned and carried out by Sister Thelma Kam-merman, work director of Parley's Ward, Highland Stake. The General Board believes that by sponsoring different types of sewing activities in work meetings, all members of Relief Society, the young as well as the older, may become actively interested in sewing and take part in the sewing program of Relief Society.
This month Sister Melvina Sheets describes another type of sewing activity for providing Christmas gifts which was carried on very successfully in her ward. "If you were to have visited the Highland Park Ward, Highland Stake, on the second Tuesday of last October, you would have had a glimpse of busy mothers, grandmothers ? yes, even great-grandmothers all enthusiastically working.
Some were cutting, some sewing, others pulling bits of white fluffy cotton from large bats and stuffing it firmly into varied shapes for legs, arms, heads, tails, ears and bodies.
Stuffed toys were in the making! Page 622
There were dolls with embroidered faces, short and tall Raggedy Anns and Andys, baby dolls, upside-down dolls, and a big doll?a girl thirty-two inches tall, complete with panties, slip, dress, and bonnet, or perhaps with a large bow in her yarn hair. There were brunettes, blondes, and redheads, a complexion to suit anyone's choice. "Cuddly animal toys proved to be popular with the younger mothers, such as: Jumbo, the elephant with his great floppy ears?with a tiny Jumbo, too; the long-necked giraffe and baby with ruffled manes; Scotty, the bow-wow dog; the pony so proud of his long yarn mane and tail; the teddy bear; Peter Rabbit with his pink eyes, ears, and nose; but better still, the white wooly lamb with colored face and tummy which proved to be a favorite with everyone. "It was while helping my niece make a set of rag dolls for her tiny daughter that the idea had come to me that this might be an answer to the Christmas suggestion question. I had immediately gone pattern hunting and had been pleasantly surprised to find so many patterns for different animals and dolls. I also cut additional patterns in order to have plenty on hand so that everyone one would be able to keep busy and happy.
In order to know the amount of material needed and to familiarize myself with each pattern, I made up one article of each pattern. Being very thrilled and satisfied with my menagerie, I placed the toys on display at our next Relief Society meeting. Thus began weeks of work and fun. Each mother, grandmother, sister, or great-grandmother was anxious to make the toy of her choice.
"I asked for pieces of material ranging from one and a half yards to only a quarter of a yard, and these were put in a scrap bag to be used as needed. We used peach-colored washable chintz for the faces, arms, and legs of the dolls. This I purchased, along with the cotton bats for stuffing, the string yarns (black, brown, yellow, and rust) for the hair, and the large, white bath towels for the little lambs. It was found that five lambs could be cut from two towels.
"Our project was most successful. A repeat program of this type has been requested, and we are planning to make an entire beginner's class next year."