[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Leisure Christensen]

Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 10?Leisure and Morals Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, January 29, 1946
Lesson link: Drug addiction, alcoholism, gambling, unchastity, and other moral problems of personal conduct were analyzed last time. Causes and consequences in each of these areas of defiant behavior were emphasized, and it was shown that the effects of private immorality reach much farther than the offending persons themselves. Repentance was given as the way out. Lesson aim: To demonstrate a relationship between modes of recreation and morality, and to suggest ways for improving the morals of society by making better use of leisure time. MAN has not always enjoyed the leisure that he knows today. There was a time, not so long ago, when recreational activities were largely reserved for the privileged upper classes, and the common man was required to toil from dawn until dusk. But all of this has now been changed. No longer is there a special leisure class monopolizing both idleness and opportunity; instead, today, every class is a leisure class. In a remarkably short period of time the machine age has cut the working day in half, releasing, thereby, many surplus man hours for leisure-time activities. And the end is not yet. It is not at all improbable that technological progress in the future will reduce the working day to four or five hours, thus assuring the average man a large amount of leisure time.
But time is a responsibility as well as an opportunity, and, where improperly used, may prove to be a liability rather than an asset. Most people who get into trouble seem to do so in their spare time. The statement, "Idleness is the devil's workshop," is as true today as when it was first uttered, and yet there is more time for idleness now than ever before. Personal debaucheries, such as those discussed in the previous lesson, are in many cases the direct result of the dissipation of leisure time.
Recreation for Profit
Literally the term recreation means to revive, refresh or create anew; in other words, to "re-create." Actually, judging by the dissipation and immorality frequently carried on under its name, it could sometimes better be spelled "wreckreation" with emphasis on the "wreck." Leisure time is potentially a blessing, giving opportunity for rest, hobby activities, sports, social life, cultural developments, and artistic expressions; but it is often wasted or used unwisely, wrecking both health and character, and leaving misery in its wake.
The major reason for this perversion of leisure-time opportunity is the profit motive. Business interests, seeing the great increase of leisure that has taken place in the modern world, have capitalized upon the situation for the sake of private profit. It used to be that practically all recreational activities were in the home or other primary groups, were largely spontaneous, and were free. Now, however, there is an all-too-common feeling that to have any fun one must go out of the home and spend money for recreation. When the desire for profit comes in conflict with the welfare of the public it usually suffers, which explains the reason for so much of the corrupt in our leisure-time activities. With a few exceptions, commercialized recreation is concerned with profit rather than morals, and it is this disregard for the best interests of the public that accounts for so many of its lurid appeals and unfortunate influences.
Then, too, commercialized recreation is so often of the passive variety that, aside from any directly unwholesome influence it may have, it fails to restore or revive, and it may even actually fatigue or destroy the personality. We are too frequently spectators and too infrequently participants in leisure-time activities to get the most out of them. It is better to be an active player than a passive watcher or listener; to be really effective, recreation must be active and creative.
Another unfortunate tendency accompanying the profit motive in commercialized recreation is the development and acceptance of the "thrill" psychology. Thrills and super-thrills seem to characterize the spirit of the times. The real danger in this, of course, lies in the fact that continual thrills of the physical and sensuous type tend to blunt the finer sensitivities of man, blinding him to the deeper spiritual joys of life, and causing him to feel that he must not stop until he has tried everything. And, in such a frame of mind, when the "giant racer" variety of thrill no longer satisfies, he will sometimes seek for bigger thrills in robbery, sex crimes, etc.
The Picture Show
It has been estimated that at least one hundred million people attend Here is the OCR-corrected transcription of the excerpt:
the movies each week in this country, and that about twenty-eight million of these are minors. Since the picture show has such a widespread appeal as this, it might be well to inquire into its possible influence upon moral behavior.
There have been a number of studies dealing with the relationship between movie attendance and moral conduct, and they all point to the same general conclusion; namely, that movies are frequently a stimulus to delinquent conduct, particularly with youth.
The picture show is able to effectively dramatize and glamorize different modes of life to make them appealing. As a result, Hollywood sets the styles in mannerisms and morals as well as in clothes. Children and adolescents, because of their immaturity, are especially impressionable and susceptible to influence. In pictures dealing with crime the bad man usually gets caught, it is true, and the implication is usually left that "crime does not pay"; but to the adolescent the criminal's glamorous life is often more vivid and thrilling than is the somewhat dry fact that he pays in the end. Love and sex themes frequently arouse the romantic and sexual emotions and condition the attitudes of youngsters, with sexual experimentation and promiscuity as the result. Many a juvenile delinquent, and no few number of adults, have testified that they got their start in crime from the movies.
All of this raises the question of control, and there are essentially three points at which control might take place; (1) In production centers. The Will Hays office of censorship in Hollywood is successful in eliminating many of the objectionable features of each play, but it needs to go farther. The Catholic Legion of Decency, and other similar pressure groups, though smaller, have succeeded in wielding some desirable influence on movie producers, but they are too limited in their scope and power. There is need for a united movement on the part of all the public to demand that better shows be produced. (2) In the community. Some states and a few local communities have censorship laws to control the type of shows allowed to come in, but in most places the market is open to anything that will bring profit to the company regardless of whether it is good or bad from the standpoint of the community. Citizens need to develop a community consciousness to the extent that they will tolerate only the better pictures to be shown. (3) In the home. Fortunately, no one is compelled to see a movie just because it is shown in the community. But there are too many families that seemingly don't care where their members spend their time; too many parents who are indifferent to their children's absence or who may even send them to a show (without first informing themselves as to the kind of show) in order to get them out of the way. Movies of the right sort can be valuable aids in character building, but there are too many of the wrong sort and too many parents who either don't know or don't care. Of such is immorality bred.
The Public Dance Hall
Dancing itself is innocent enough, but the conditions and temptations surrounding the average public dance hall of the day are enough to
make of it a real moral problem.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 637
Men and women of all ages come together without chaperonage and usually in search of a thrill.
Many are unescorted. The hardened and depraved rub elbows with the innocent and adventurous.
Lights are dimmed. The orchestra plays softly and romantically.
Liquor is brought and passed around. ?Pickups" are made for the rendezvous after the dance.
Regrets and despair too often await the dawn.
Some may think that this picture of the public dance hall is painted overly dark; but if it is, it is only for the sake of emphasis. All that is said here is true, and while it must be recognized that many can attend the public dance and remain unharmed, yet it must also be admitted that many others cannot; and therein lies the danger. If liquor, unescorted attendance, and pickups could be eliminated from the public dance hall, it would be far more acceptable from the moral point of view.
Parents and community workers should insist upon these reforms, but in the meantime they should strive to keep their children free from all such dangerous, immoral exposures. Miscellaneous Decreative Patterns Although the picture show and the public dance were singled out for special analysis, it should be remembered that there are a great many other patterns of "recreation-al" behavior that are decreative or demoralizing in their results. And some of these are even more destructive than the two mentioned above.
Thriller radio programs, comics, and pulp magazines all join with the movies in furnishing morbid and distorted stimulation to the young. It might be just about as logical to speak of "our radio-made children" or "our comic-made children" as it is to speak of "our movie-made children," for in each case the effect of continuous exposure upon attitudes and behavior is rather profound.
Overstimulation and overexcitement with emphasis upon the brutal and the gruesome is characteristic of a proportion of them all. It is even difficult to understand why the so-called comic magazines are spoken of as comics at all. As for the dime novel and the pulp magazine, the slant is so definitely toward sex, erotic love, and cheap adventure as to be revolting to all mature persons. But youth are not mature, and to permit them to be exposed to some of this vicious literature is a moral crime of considerable magnitude. The night club, the cabaret, the roadhouse, the pool hall, the "beer joint," the gambling den, the taxi dance hall, and the burlesque or "girl" show, are a few other types of leisure-time activities that frequently lead to extreme personal and social disorganization.
Alcohol and sex used for profit, either singly or together, create very dangerous situations, regardless of the name of the institution used as a shield. Often, too, the problem is primarily one of sheer idleness, starting in boredom and ending in mischief.
Personal disorganization resulting from the misuse of leisure time is not restricted to the big city with its high-powered temptations and its opportunities for anonymity. The small town is frequently just as much to blame, and this for the very reason that it fails to provide  wholesome and challenging activities and interests. But, whatever the community, idleness when permitted to exist creates real moral problems.
Loitering on the streets, "killing time" in the pool halls, and seeking thrills in the back alleys, all start with idleness and end with trouble. Leisure Time and the Community The blessing of abundant leisure time, which has come to man and which will increase all the more in the future, carries with it a great moral responsibility.
That responsibility is to use this extra time well, to let it be the means of lifting man up to the better and nobler things of life.
When dissipated, leisure time leads to both idleness and debauchery, examples of which we have seen throughout this lesson.
When utilized in line with moral principles, it leads to richer experiences, deeper appreciations, and loftier satisfactions. Our job is to eliminate the waste and the wreckage of leisure, and to put in their place the finer and more wholesome things of life.
Students of crime and delinquency frequently point to the lack of adequate cultural and recreational facilities in the community as a major factor in immoral and anti-social conduct.
This is especially true with reference to the young.
With time on their hands and the desire for fun, young people often find themselves faced with the limited alternatives of loitering on the streets or participating in some relatively unwholesome commercialized, leisure-time offering. No wonder so many of them get into trouble. It is high time that more of our communities awaken to the problem, as some are now doing, and provide decent places and programs for the enjoyment and development of the young during their leisure hours.
Recreational centers should be developed, appealing cultural programs should be offered, ct cetera. Schools, churches, service clubs, and other groups can give valuable assistance to such a movement by talking it up, offering their facilities for the various activities, and by manifesting their willingness to co-operate in the larger, integrated community program.
There is much that can be done on a community basis to check delinquency and develop morality in the young.
Latent resources that could be utilized to combat these evil influences are abundant in every community. But to accomplish this, as it should be accomplished, will require the interest and united effort of all.
Problems for Thought and Action 1.
Explain how the great increase of leisure time has been possible. Why does leisure time, sometimes prove to be a liability rather than an asset?
Give examples. Do you agree that most people who get into trouble do so in their spare time? Explain. 2. How does the profit motive lead to corruption in recreational activities?
Give examples. Why has the increase in commercialized recreation paralleled the increase in leisure time? Is commercialized recreation always "wreckreation?"
Defend your point of view.
What is spectatoritis? Is it good or bad? Discuss. 3. Why are picture shows so influential in the shaping of attitudes and conduct?
Show how movies have contributed to delinquency (as a basis for this the class leader may want to have someone give a brief review of Forman's Our
LESSON DEPARTMENT 639
Movie Made Children). Select one or two recent picture shows that most of the class would have seen and criticize as to good and bad features. How can the quality of pictures produced and coming into the community be controlled? What is the particular responsibility of parents regarding movie attendance? Suggest ways and means of selecting the better pictures and of directing the attendance of children. Describe the major evils attending the average public dance hall, and explain why each is an evil. Is dancing itself an evil? Why not? Can you suggest any ways of eliminating the evils of the dance without eliminating dancing itself? Show how certain radio programs, comics, and magazine materials are unwholesome. If possible, ask class members ahead of time to listen to certain radio programs for children. Criticize these programs in class. Bring selected comics and pulp magazines to class as a basis for discussion. Describe other disorganizing leisure-time activities that may be in your community. 6. Why does leisure time. Carry with it a moral responsibility? Discuss ways that your community might organize for a better use of leisure time, and show how individuals and groups can help. Could the Relief Society do anything about this problem? Discuss. 7. Why is the Family Hour program, recommended by the Church, so influential in shaping attitudes and conduct? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: II Thessalonians 3:6-12. Doc. And Cov. 88:121-124; 136:28. Books by L. D. S. Authors: Discourses oi Brigham. Young, "Happiness and Social Enjoyment," pages 364-376. Milton Bennion, Moral Teachings 01 the New Testament (now available at Deseret Book Company, $1.50).