[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science The]

Social Sctience—The Progress of Man Part Ill—In the Way of Destiny Lesson 20—The Kingdom of God Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, chapters 40 and 41) For Tuesday, April 28, 1953
Objective: To explain how, at the climax of earth history, the wicked shall be swept off, and the Lord shall come in glory to reign over the righteous for a thousand years of peace. The Earth Is the Lord's VERY person professing belief in Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world and the Only Begotten Son of God, by and through whom all things were created, must agree with the psalmist: "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein" (Psalms 24:1). Since this is true, the time must come when the present order of things must change and a perfect universal and divine theocracy be established upon the earth, never again to be destroyed or overcome by rebellious men who seek their own selfish ends and the usurpation of political power. It cannot be disputed successfully that the rightful Ruler of this earth does not at this present time occupy his place of power and honor which belongs to him. If he ruled upon the earth today, and his law was supreme and enforced among all peoples, there could be no more war, no strife, no envying or wickedness among the people. There would be only happiness and peace, for every man would seek the welfare and eternal blessing of every other man among every race and people. Perilous Times It is very apparent that we are living in perilous times. Rulers in some of the nations are despotic and dictatorial, the freedom of many peoples has been taken from them even as it was in ancient days of monarchial despotism. The freedom and liberty, which by divine right belong to the people have, in many places, been destroyed, and the people have become pawns in the hands of wicked, unscrupulous dictators. Jealous nations are watching each other, fearful that some political, territorial, or trade advantage will be seized upon by some rival power to the disadvantage of themselves. With greedy eyes some nations are gazing upon the territory of weaker nations and seeking a pretext by which they may pounce upon them and seize the coveted territory. 'The day has come when fear has entered into the hearts of worldly rulers. The whole world is in commotion and a fearful looking forth to the time when war shall again be poured out without measure upon the inhabitants of the earth. Even in this land, dedicated to liberty, and where the hand of the Page 67 68
Lord guided our fathers in righteous endeavor to establish freedom of conscience, equality and justice for all the oppressed, we find strife and commotion.
Organizations are at work intent on the overthrow of constitutional government and the setting up of some such system as today prevails in some distant parts of the earth. The liberties of the people are threatened. 'The Constitution of the United States is in grave danger, as was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is the duty of all members of the Church to uphold and sustain this Government and to stand by the Constitution and preserve it from al!
Unwarranted and destructive attacks.
This is our duty until Christ shall come to take his place as the rightful Ruler of all the earth. The fact remains that while we have a government here, the fundamental laws of which were directed by and given to us through the inspiration of the Lord, nevertheless the Government is not the kingdom of God which eventually is to be set up and have dominion over all the earth. No one need take offense at this saying, for the men and women in our nation who are the most lawabiding and patriotic hold to this view, which has been proclaimed by divine commandment, and _ they, like the righteous in times of old, confidently look for the coming of a country, and "a city whose builder and maker is God" (Hebrews 11: 10). The Second Coming of Christ The Savior taught his disciples that he would come to the earth again in the last days in power and great glory to set up his kingdom _  and bring to pass the end of the world. By "end of the world," is not meant the end of the earth, but the end of the reign of Satan, or of wickedness. Isaiah, by the spirit of prophecy, speaks of the second coming, and declares that at that day Christ will come in the clouds of heaven with dyed garments, glorious in his apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength (Isaiah 63: 1-4; compare D. & C. 133:63-74). The ancient apostles had a perfect understanding that Christ would come to reign on the earth for one thousand years. In the epistles they dwell upon this great event with warnings to the saints to watch in faithfulness and endure to the end.
Since the fall of Adam and his ejection from the garden of Eden, Satan has usurped authority and dominion upon the earth.
This he could not have done if the children of Adam had not hearkened to him and followed him in his wickedness. In the wisdom of the Almighty, this domination by the forces of evil, with Lucifer at their head, has been permitted that men might be tried and proved according to the plan declared before the foundation of the earth was laid. The time is near, even at our doors, when this unrighteous dominion of the earth and its inhabitants, governments, kingdoms, and peoples by Satan shall come to an end. No one knows better than Lucifer that the days of his power are near their end. For this reason he is raging in the hearts of the people and stirring them up to anger and strife, as predicted by Nephi. For this reason the whole earth is filled with violence which will increase until LESSON DEPARTMENT Christ comes as the Prince of Peace to set all things in order.
Shortly after the restoration of the Church the Lord said: For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world (D. & C. 1:35-36). The time has now come when peace has been taken from the earth, and the devil has, today, power over his own dominion.
That dominion will soon cease to be. The other part of this prophecy is about to be fulfilled. The scourge of the Lord is now passing over the nations, as he promised it should in the day of wickedness, "and the report thereof" is vexing all people, but we have been told that "it shall not be stayed until the Lord come." A Gathering of the Righteous Daniel had opened to his vision the prophetic history of nations from his time to the end of the world. (Read Daniel 7:9-22.) With the explanation which has come to the Church by revelation this vision is made clear.. We have been informed that the place where the Ancient of Days shall sit is Adamondi-Ahman, in Missouri. At this place Adam dwelt after he was driven from the garden of Eden. Here, three years before his death, he called his posterity together, those who were righteous, and blessed them, and "they rose up 69 and blessed Adam, and called him Michael, the prince, the archangel" (D. & C. 107:54). In fulfillment of this scene in Daniel's vision, here, once again, Adam— the Ancient of Days—shall come to visit his people at a time when the judgment shall sit, and Christ shall come and receive dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, which shall not pass away, and "all people, nations, and languages, shall serve him" (Daniel 7:14).
This gathering of the children of Adam, where the thousands, and the tens of thousands are assembled in the judgment, will be one of the greatest events this troubled earth has ever seen. At this conference, or council, all who have held keys of dispensations will render a report of their stewardship.
Adam will do likewise, and then he will surrender to Christ all authority. Then Adam will be confirmed in his calling as the prince over his posterity and will be officially installed and crowned eternally in this presiding calling. Then Christ will be received as King of Kings, and Lord of Lords (D. H. C. III, pp. 386-7).. We do not know how long a time this gathering will be in session, or how many sessions may be held at this grand council. It is sufficient to know that it is a gathering of the Priesthood of God from the beginning of this earth down to the present, in which reports will be made and all who have been given dispensations will declare their keys and ministry and make report of their stewardship according to the parable.
Judgment will be rendered unto them, for this will be a gathering of the righteous, those 

 —JANUARY 1953 who have held and who hold keys of authority in the kingdom of God upon this earth. When all things are prepared and every key and power set in order with a full and perfect report of each man's stewardship, then Christ will receive these reports and be installed as rightful Ruler of this earth. At this grand council he will take his. Place by the united voice of the thousands who by right of Priesthood are there assembled. This will precede the great day of the de struction of the wicked and will be the preparation for the millennial reign. The Earth to Be Cleansed of Wickedness Following this grand council there shall come upon the earth great changes. In the restoration, spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began, the earth is to be renewed and cleansed from all unrighteousness. In that day all enmity and evil are to cease and the nations are to be swallowed up as part of the kingdom of Jesus Christ, after they have been cleansed of their wicked inhabitants as proclaimed in the Holy Scriptures. (See D. & C. 101:23-31.) The day and the hour of the Lord's coming no man knows, neither the angels in heaven, but he will come when the vast majority of mankind are the least prepared for it, and when they are denying his power, saying that he delayeth his coming. It will be a time similar in all respects to the days of Noah, when the great flood swept over the earth. Malachi speaks of the day of the coming of the Lord and declares that it shall burn "as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it Shall leave them neither root nor branch" (Malachi 4:1). In this manner have all the prophets spoken. Wickedness must come to an end, for it would be inconsistent to have Satan loose seeking to regain his lost power and contending with men, as he has done for six thousand years. During the earth's Sabbath, the seventh thousand years, which is set apart as the reign of peace and righteousness, Christ will rule undisturbed by any wicked element or influence from the adversary of truth and righteousness. Not only will the earth be cleansed from all wickedness during the reign of peace, but the Church, or kingdom of God now known as the Church, will be cleansed also. The Lord declared it in the following words: "The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity" (Matthew 13:41). We know that the coming of the Lord is near, but we have been assured that he will not come until the cup of iniquity is full. Notwithstanding all the warnings, and the plainness of the message which has come to us, the inhabitants of the world will go on about their business, paying little heed, until that day shall be upon them. For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Nae 'Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 8 SOUTH MAIN STREET Gd 4-2581
Salt Lake City, Utah Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man (Luke 21:35-36). Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is Christ truly termed the rightful Ruler of this earth? 2. Appoint one to describe the grea events, foretold by Daniel and emiiaed by the Prophet, which will occur in the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman when Christ is officially installed as King of Kings. 3. Why must the earth be cleansed from all unrighteousness before the millenial reign can be ushered in? 4. Repeat the parable of the fig tree. Give evidence that the signs of the coming the Son of man in power and great glory are all about us. 5. Describe conditions on the earth during that blissful period when all mankind shall dwell in goodness and peace for a thousand years. 71 parehshahahahahahahahahahal Beautiful SACRED CHORUSES be RELIEF SOCIETY SSA —— How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—Liddle 16 es If God Forgot—O'Hare.20 ae Let the Mountains Shout For Joy—Stephens - 15 -- Lord Is My Light—Allitsen.18
Lal, My God and!—Withol.20 ae O Day of Rest and Gladness—Schumann. 15 —— One Sweetly Solemn Thought—Ambrose --- 15 ennene Seek Ye the Lord—Roberts.15 — Thanks Be To God—Dickson.16 ae That Sweet Story of Old— WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. C) On Approval O Charge (] Money Enclosed ee Address. --c2-cccccccccecceeeccccceccececcoccccecccceceecceees SS |: Da Fas' OF ALL — RELIABILITY 4$-47 SOUTH al main STREET Vo SALT LAKE CITY 9, UTAM