[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: AN AMAZING MONEY-MAKING All]
All  3  Boxes 
of  Famous 
Chilton  Greeting 
Cards  •<•"  $■ 
Thousands  Make 
and  More  With  This  Plan! 
Think  of  It!  .  .  .  there's  TWO  DOLLARS  CASH  PROFIT  waiting  for  you 
in  these  wonderful  boxes  of  beautiful  Chilton  Everyday  Greeting  Cards.  It's 
a  GUARANTEED  profit,  too  .  .  ..you  must  make  $2.00  jusc  by  showing  these 
cards  to  friends  and  neighbors,  or  return  them  at  our  expense. 
Each  year  thousands  of  men  and  women  are  making  new  friends  and 
assuring  themselves  of  extra  money  through  the  famous  Chilton  "friendship 
plan  .  The  moment  you  see  these  beautiful,  colorful  cards  you'll  understand 
why  people  are  so  eager  to  buy  them.  There  are  cards  for  all  occasions  .  .  . 
birthday  cards,  anniversary,  get-well,  friendship  cards.  Not  just  ordinary 
cards  but  cards  so  handsome  they'll  be  treasured  through  the  vears ! 
Your  good  sense  will  tell  you  there  must  be  hundreds  of  folks'  in  your 
neighborhood  who'll  thank  you  for  introducing  them  to  Chilton  cards.  That's 
why  we  want  to  send  you  these  introductory  boxes  now — to  prove  what  a 
warm,  friendly,  human  experience  it  is  to  show  Chilton  cards  ! 
FREE  TRIAL  OFFER . . .  YOUR  PROFITS  GUARANTEED,    f 
To  get  you  started,  we  make  this  amazing  offer  of  all  3  boxes    ■ 
of  cards  for  just  $1.00.  You'll  earn  $10,  $20,  $50  and  more,    ■ 
quickly  and  easily — and  you  need  no  experience  because  as  a    I 
mernber  of  the  "Chilton  Family!"  you  get  our  money-making    ! 
SIGN  CARDS 
IN  23KG0LD! 
Pastel  Parchments  with 
"Golden  Signature*" 
New!  .  .  .  new!  ...  14 
life-like  florals  mount- 
ed on  pastel-tinted 
parchment  folders.  In- 
cludes enough  magic 
"Golden  Signature" 
to  sign  each  card  in 
23K  gold!  Sentiments 
for  all  occasions.  Box 
sells  for  $1.25. 
"Priie"  All-Occasion 
Most  sensational  as- 
sortment ever!  14  gor- 
geous cards  with  novel 
tip-^ns,  shimmering 
underlays,  lavish  em- 
bossing, gold  bronzing. 
Box  sells  for  $1.00. 
Spark-l-ettes 
16  miniature  folders 
mounted  on  gleaming, 
mirror-like  aluminum 
cards.  Richly  embossed 
with  scalloped  edges. 
For  all  occasions.  Box 
sells  for  $1.00. 
^'  Trade  Jklaik 
guides  which  explain  everything. 
Send  no  money,  pay  nothing  when  your  boxes  arrive.  Just 
exaniine  these  cards  .  .  .  then  show  them  to  friends  and 
neighbors.  Unless  you  get  an  immediate  profit  of  $2.00,  return 
the  cards  at  our  expense  and  owe  nothing.  You  don't  risk  a 
penny!  But  this  offer  is  limited,  so  mail  the  couoon  now!
