[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: The Cleruet]
TESTIMONY  THROUGH  READING  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON  7 
this  new  name  of  ''Personal  Stand-  their  Hves  back  to  God,  but  the  day 
ards  Committee"  we  incorporate  all  will  come,  if  you  give  them  the 
vices  which  man  is  addicted  to  or  fortification  in  their  childhood,  in 
may  be  addicted  to.    After  all,  this  those  years  when  their  souls  and 
life  is  just  one  eternal  round  of  sin  minds  are  pliable,  the  day  will  come 
and  death,  repentance,  and  forgive-  when  they  will  have  the  strength, 
ness.                                  '  because  of  you,  to  turn  their  lives 
So  you  mothers  here,   I  would  and  their  characters  back  to  God 
urge  you  to  be  vitally  interested  in  and  be  influenced  by  him.     God 
the  program  which  we  have  under  bless  you  in  this  great  and  noble 
the  heading  of  the  "Personal  Stand-  work  of  teaching  your  children  and 
ards    Committee.''      You    do    not  the  children  of  others  the  ways  of 
know  what  your  own  lives  and  your  righteousness,  because  that  which 
own  influences  mean  in  the  lives  of  you  implant  in  youth  will  crop  up 
young  people,  and  the  lives  of  chil-  from  time  to  time  in  later  life,  and 
dren.  it  may  be  the  very  influence  you  are 
I  was  talking  the  other  day  to  wielding,  of  which  you  do  not  see 
one  of  my  friends,  a  life-long  friend,  the  immediate  results,  that  will  be 
who    belongs    to    the    Alcoholics  an  anchor  to   the  faith   of  these 
Anonymous,    who    was    drunk   for  young  people, 
twenty-seven  years,  and  then  finally  As  the  chairman  of  that  Corn- 
turned  his  life  back  to  God.  He  is  mittee,   I  wanted   to   get   in   that 
now  active  in  the  Church  and  has  much,  anyway,  to  you  sisters.  After 
not  had  a  drink  for  fifteen  years.    I  all,  you  belong  to  the  great  sorority 
asked  him  how  he  was  able  to  over-  of  saviorhood.    You  may  not  hold 
come  that  habit.    I  asked  him  if  it  the  Priesthood.  Men  are  different, 
was  due  entirely  to  the  program  of  men  have  to  have  something  given 
A.A.,  and  he  said  to  me:  "Matt,  if  to  them  to  make  them  saviors  of 
I  had  not  had  the  fortification  which  men,  but  not  mothers,  not  women, 
came  to  me  in  my  childhood  from  You  are  born  with  an  inherent  right, 
a  righteous  mother,  I  never  would  an  inherent  authority,  to  be  the  sav- 
have  been  able  to  overcome  this  iors  of  human  souls.  You  are  the  co- 
terrible  habit.  The  influence  of  that  creators  with  God  of  his  children, 
mother  in  my  home  is  what  has  giv-  Therefore,  it  is  expected  of  you  by 
en  me  the  courage  and  the  strength  a  right  divine  that  you  be  the  sav- 
and  the  fortitude  to  overcome  this  iors  and  the  regenerating  force  in 
drinking  habit."  the  lives  of  God's  children  here  up- 
on the  earth. 
^^HAT  a  tribute  to  a  mother!  I  would  like  to  bear  my  testi- 
Now,  you  sisters,  you  are  the  mony  to  you  about  the  book  which 
mothers  of  men,  and  you  may  not  you  are  studying  in  the  Relief  So- 
live  to  see  the  fruits  of  your  teach-  ciety.  The  Book  of  Mormon.  I  know 
ing  in  the  lives  of  your  children,  nothing  about  archaeology.  I  have 
Maybe  from  some  of  your  homes  not   studied   the   maps   which   ap- 
there  will  come  children  who  have  parently    relate    to    The    Book    of 
not  lived  as  you  would  like  them  to  Mormon,  the  travels  of  the  Lehites, 
live.    You  may  not  see  them  turn  the   Lamanites,   and   so   forth.     I

8  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY   1953 
know  very  little  about  the  outside  "I  do  not  want  to  hear  anything 
evidences  of  The  Book  of  Mormon,  about   the    outside   evidences    per- 
but  I  have  a  testimony  of  the  di-  taining  to  this  book.    I  will  read  the 
vinity  of  this  book,  and  that  testi-  book  itself,  and  then  I  will  tell  you 
mony  has  come  to  me  from  within  where  it  came  from.     Then  these 
the  two  covers  of  the  book  itself.  other  stories  won't  mean  a  thing  to 
To  me,  archaeology,  and  all  that  me.    If  this  came  from  God,  I  will 
archaeologists  discover,  which  may  find  that  disclosed  within  the  book 
in  a  way  prove  the  genuineness  of  itself.  If  it  did  not  come  from  God, 
the  book— these  discoveries  are  lost  no  matter  what  story  you  would  tell 
in  the  spirit  of  the  book  itself,  and  me  would  have  no  influence  upon 
if  you  can't  find  a  testimony  with-  my  belief  or  disbelief  in  this  record, 
in  the  covers  of  this  book,  there  is  I  am  a  Christian.     I  do  not  know 
no  need  to  look  elsewhere.  where   the   New   Testament  came 
from,   but   I   have   read   the   New 
\\7HEN   I   was  a   missionary  on  Testament,  and  after  I  read  it,  I  be- 
these  grounds  many  years  ago,  came  a  follower  of  Christ,  because 
I    followed    a    group    of    tourists  i"  that  book  is  the  life  of  One  who 
around.    I  have  forgotten  who  con-  was  perfect,  and  I  caught  a  spirit 
ducted  the  party,  but  I  was  just  fol-  from   the   New  Testament   which 
lowing.     It  might  have  been  Presi-  turned  me  from  the  gods  of  the 
dent   Levi   Edgar   Young,   and   in  Japanese  to  the  God  of  Christian- 
that   group  was   a   Japanese   from  ity." 
Harvard,  who  was  a  doctor  of  phi-  We  have  so  much  collateral  read- 
losophy.  ing  in  this  Church.    With  all  due 
I  recall  that  at  the  end  of  the  tour  respect  to  those  who  write  books,  I 
around  the  block,  he  went  to  the  think  there  is  only  one  place  where 
guide,  and  he  said,  '1  have  been  a  we  can  really  get  a  testimony  of 
little  disappointed  in  this  tour.*'  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
The  guide  said,  "Why?"  Joseph  Smith,  a  testimony  of  the 
He  said,  "You  have  not  said  any-  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
thing  about  that  book  which  you  ^^d  that  is  right  back  to  the  source 
people  have/'  material— the  standard  works  of  the 
Well,  he  just  had  not  had  time  Church,  because  within  these  cov- 
to  talk  about  The  Book  of  Mor-  ers,  the^  voice  rings  out,  "God  hath 
mon,  and  so  the  guide  said,  "If  you  spoken." 
have  time  I  will  be  glad  to  take  you 
into  the  Bureau  and  present  you  HPHESE  are  not  the  opinions  of 
with  one  of  these  books."  men.    These  are  not  the  opin- 
So  they  went  in,  and  he  took  a  ions  of  men  as  to  where  Lehi  and 
Book  of  Mormon,  he  autographed  his  party  landed,  either  in  the  Pa- 
it,  and  presented  it  to  this  Japanese  cific  or  the  Atlantic.  These  are  not 
doctor  of  philosophy,  and  then  he  the  conclusions  of  the  students  of 
started  to  tell  him  the  story  of  the  archaeology,  of  the  drawers  of  maps, 
coming  forth  of  The  Book  of  Mor-  This  is  the  word  of  God  himself, 
mon,  and  this  Japanese  stopped  and  so,  studying  The  Book  of 
him  immediately.  Mormon,  brothers  and  sisters,  you

TESTIMONY  THROUGH  READING  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 
are  getting  back  to  God  himself, 
and  my,  what  this  book  contains! 
Voting  was  referred  to  this  morn- 
ing. Brother  Lee  read  from  the 
Book  of  Mosiah,  I  think  it  was, 
about  the  voting  of  the  people  on 
this  continent.  I  think  that  is  the 
first  record  in  sacred  history  of  vot- 
ing, and  it  occurred  on  this  conti- 
nent. We  are  facing  an  election  this 
year.  We  learn  from  this  book  that 
man  is  endowed  with  certain  rights, 
just  as  the  Declaration  of  Independ- 
ence states.  We  have  the  right  to 
liberty,  to  freedom,  to  the  pursuit 
of  happiness.  We  have  the  right  of 
the  franchise.  We  are  told  in  this 
book  that  no  kings  can  reign  upon 
this  continent,  that  this  must  always 
be  a  continent  governed  under  the 
principles  of  a  republican  form  of 
government. 
We  are  told  that  this  land  is 
choice  above  all  other  lands.  All 
of  these  things  are  contained  with- 
in this  sacred  book. 
You  know  when  this  book  was 
written,  these  United  States  were 
confined  to  just  the  fringe  of  this 
great  continent.  Daniel  Webster 
had  said  that  all  of  this  western  area 
was  worth  nothing.  He  said  he 
would  not  vote  one  penny  of  the 
taxes  of  the  people  of  the  United 
States  to  extend  the  then  bound- 
aries of  the  United  States,  but  here 
in  this  sacred  record,  it  set  forth 
that  this  land— the  whole  land— was 
a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands. 
We  must  preserve  it  as  a  land 
choice  above  all  other  lands. 
God  was  working  in  that  genera- 
tion, not  only  with  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  in  giving  unto  him  the 
plates  upon  which  this  record  was 
inscribed,  but  he  was  working  upon 
the  minds  of  men  who  were  raised 
up  for  the  purpose  of  bringing  to 
these  people  of  the  United  States, 
called  forth  from  all  nations  of  the 
earth,  the  greatest  principles  of  free- 
dom and  liberty  that  have  ever  been 
vouchsafed  to  man. 
The  eyes  of  the  world  since  that 
day  have  been  upon  this  land, 
choice  above  all  other  lands.  Were 
we  to  let  down  the  bars  now  against 
immigration,  people  would  flock 
here  by  the  millions,  because  they 
know  that  this  is  a  land  choice 
above  all  other  lands.  This  is  where 
God  has  made  of  all  nations  one 
people,  and  I  add  my  request  to 
Brother  Lee's  that  you  people  use 
your  influence  to  get  those  of  vot- 
ing age  out  to  vote. 
Y^OU  know,  the  slaves  never  had 
the  franchise.  Before  the  Civil 
War  they  were  not  allowed  to  vote. 
We  have  voluntary  slavery  in  this 
country  because  we  have  miUions 
who  will  not  go  out  to  vote  who 
have  the  right  to  do  so.  They  are 
slaves  of  their  own  choosing,  be- 
cause if  we  do  not  participate  in 
preserving  this  land  choice  above  all 
other  lands,  then  to  that  degree  we 
are  bringing  back  to  this  land,  slav- 
ery. 
Now,  it  is  all  within  the  book, 
brothers  and  sisters.  Christ  came  to 
this  continent.  Why  not?  God  is 
the  father  of  us  all.  Christ,  when 
he  left  the  other  hemisphere,  told 
his  disciples,  "Other  sheep  I  have, 
which  are  not  of  this  fold:  them  also 
I  must  bring  .  .  .  and  there  shall  be 
one  fold,  and  one  shepherd.'' 
He  came.  He  established  the 
Church  here.  He  chose  twelve  dis- 
ciples. He  gave  them  the  authority 
to  teach  the  gospel  and  administer 
in  the  ordinances  thereof.    Baptism