[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The Value and Use of Society]

We can read about a place or hear it described, yet find that when shown a picture of it, the thousand THE VALUE AND USE OF AUDIO-VISUAL TEACHING AIDS 29 words have not made us understand as one picture does.
Through arousing interest and aiding to a more complete understanding, pictures stimulate the desire of the members to tell the class about their experience, or ask questions, and so they promote class participation.
Pictures create mood.
They can arouse in us definite feelings of response.
Literature leaders will be able to use this to advantage in the lessons on poetry. To be able to create the mood of the poet's word picture will aid in an appreciation of a poem, as a stage set does a play.
Pictures aid memory.
They help us re-live experiences. One picture can serve as a quick review of an entire lesson, and thus accelerate learning. We never become too old to appreciate a book containing pictures.
They enrich reading, they stimulate the imagination, and help us go beyond the mere words of the text. Use of Pictures in Literature Lessons "Imagination is the soul of poetry," Coleridge says. The right picture may stimulate our imagination and add to our enjoyment of a poem. In the lesson on Shelley, "My soul is an enchanted boat, which like a sleeping swan doth float," or "deep autumnal tones" or "drive my dead thoughts like withered leaves," call for pictures which will help us imagine the mood and beauty of the lines.
Pictures of the countryside the authors knew and loved, help us re-create the experiences they had. The rugged highlands to Scott typify the stark courage of Jeannie Deans and her rugged honesty which provide the theme for "The Heart of Midlothian." We follow her by map and picture on her journey from Edinburgh to London to see the queen.
Fortunately for us, another woman took that same walk, and we have pictures and a map illustrating it in the National Geographic Magazine of August 1950. Teaching Helps for Theology At the present time there are no pictures illustrating the Book of Mormon which can be purchased, and so for help in these lessons we must look to other teaching aids. The blackboard is the common medium of visual instruction, and is readily available. Its use also encourages attention, adds interest, and brings active class participation. The class leader can list, describe, or sketch ideas as the occasion demands.
This season both our theology and social science courses have lessons that are doctrinal in nature.
Doctrine does not lend itself to visual presentation; however, there are many concrete and_ factual things in the lessons which may be illustrated on a blackboard to aid in understanding, to clarify, to add emphasis, and to help us remember. In lesson 13 of the theology course, "Separation into Nephites and Lamanites," we could list the differences between the Nephites and the Lamanites. We could write 

 —JANUARY 1953 down the answers given by class members in answer to the question, "What industries did Nephi encourage among his people?" 'The principles of progress applicable to our nation which are found in the development of the Nephite civilization, might be written on the board. 'Aids for Social Science The social science lesson 8, "Modern Trends in Government," has some factual material in it which could add interest and make the lesson more forceful, if listed. The abundant knowledge which has been given in specific fields, the agencies being debased today, the signs of warning we have been given already, will all provide lesson emphasis if placed before us by the class leader. Collecting Teaching Aids for Future Lessons As soon as your Relief Society Magazine comes, read over the lesson, and become aware of the possibilities contained in the lesson for audio-visual aids. It will be sur- ' prising to you how many ideas come to you for lesson enrichment. You may start to collect aids for future lessons, as well.
Many magazines are a fruitful source for tear 'sheets (pages torn from a magazine or book). The magazines of the past year have had a wealth of good material on the early history of the United States Government, the Constitution, and reproductions of historical documents.
These are always valuable, so look over your magazines carefully before you discard them, and start a file of good tear sheets. Use of Hectograph and Opaque Projector When simple line drawings are needed for a lesson presentation, it is possible to reproduce them | with a hectograph. A hectograph helps us prepare study sheets in quantity when we wish to give excerpts to all members of our class.
Hectographs can be obtained from any good school supply house or you may make your own. To display pictures that are too small to be seen by all the class, or that you do not wish to remove from a book, an opaque projector can be used. 'These can be made quite inexpensively and are very simple to use.
Directions for making your own may be found in the New Home Workshop Encyclopedia, Popular Science Publishing Company, page 439. The Sunday School in your ward may own both an opaque projector and a _ hectograph.
Directions for making both were given in the Sunday School Visual Aids Clinic held in connection with the Sunday School general conference of 1952. You can trace the enlarged drawing or map from the projection or use the projection if facilities are available. In conclusion, we would urge you to recognize the value of teaching aids; study how to use them purposefully; and remember always that audio-visual aids are valuable only as they aid in teaching the reality of the lesson il and effectively.,