[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Christmas]
cultural College,  and  was  the  1946  winner  of  the  Deseret  News  Christmas 
story  "Snow  in  My  Heart."  For  some  reason,  children  always  find  their  way 
into  my  stories.'*

FOREVER  AFTER 
''Daddy/'  I  said,  because  I  was 
awful  afraid,  "mother  won't  ever 
come  back,  will  she?" 
Daddy's  hand  was  shaking.  He 
sat  down  on  the  couch  and  pulled 
us  down  on  each  side  of  him.  "It 
would  be  very  lonesome  without 
mother,  wouldn't  it?"  he  asked. 
Already  I  hurt  all  over  inside,  and 
I  felt  as  if  it  had  been  a  year  since^ 
mother  had  gone. 
"Couldn't  we  go  and  get  her  after 
awhile?"  Bertha  asked. 
"But  mother  doesn't  want  to  live 
in  Springtown,"  daddy  said.  "A  long 
time  ago  I  promised  her  that  some- 
time, if  she  still  wanted  to,  I  would 
take  her  back  to  her  home." 
"But,  dad,  you  want  to  stay 
here,"  I  said. 
"We  are  a  family,  and  we  must 
stick  together,"  daddy  said,  "and  we 
must  keep  my  promise." 
And  then  I  knew  we  must  sell 
the  farm  to  Lew  Jones  and  go  to 
mother,  even  Pood,  because  he  was 
part  of  the  family. 
And  so  all  day  we  worked.  Daddy 
got  the  suitcases  out  of  the  storage 
closet  and  told  us  to  put  our  clothes 
in  first.  Then  he  got  some  big  box- 
es and  told  us  to  put  our  toys  in. 
I  saw  Bertha  get  her  dolls  in  out 
of  the  window  seat.  And  then  when 
I  looked  they  were  back  in  the  win- 
dow seat.  Then  after  while  she  put 
them  in  again. 
AFTER  a  long  while  the  day 
passed,  and  we  had  boxes  all 
over.  Daddy  said  the  moving  van 
would  take  the  furniture,  and  there 
were  still  lots  of  things  to  take  care 
of  on  the  farm,  so  we  wouldn't  start 
on  the  dishes  yet. 
We  went  into  the  living  room. 
and  I  knew  we  were  waiting  for  Lew 
Jones  to  come,  and  then  the  farm 
would  soon  be  his,  and  the  frog 
pond  and  the  window  seat  where 
Bertha  kept  her  dolls,  and  every- 
thing. 
Bertha  and  I  stood  by  the  win- 
dow, and  sure  enough,  pretty  soon 
the  big  old  Buick  started  up  our 
driveway,  and  I  thought  my  heart 
would  beat  my  ribs  out. 
The  car  stopped.  I  held  my 
breath. 
And  then  the  door  opened  and 
there  stood  mother.  The  wind  had 
blown  her  hair  from  under  her  hat 
so  that  it  curled  around  her  face. 
Her  eyes  were  big  and  shining,  and 
she  was  beautiful. 
"Lillian!"  dad  stood  up.  "Why 
are  you  here?" 
"Because,"  she  said,  almost  like 
she  could  cry,  "I  wanted  to  come 
home." 
I  looked  at  dad  and  saw  the  hght 
leap  into  his  face. 
"It  happened  as  I  rode  along  in 
the  bus,"  mother  went  on,  while  we 
stood  waiting.  "Passing  the  farm- 
houses that  had  been  our  friends. 
I  saw  over  the  hills  the  camps  where 
you  had  taken  the  boy  scouts;  and 
the  chapel  with  the  choir  I  had 
led.  And— well,  as  we  left  be- 
hind all  the  things  that  had  been 
my  home,  where  my  children  were 
born,  I  suddenly  knew  that  the 
things  that  mattered  were  right  here 
in  this  peaceful  valley,  just  as  much 
as  in  the  city  that  used  to  be  my 
home.  Here  was  my  family,  and, 
like  them,  I  wanted  to  live  here  for- 
everl" 
"But,  mother,  that  was  Lew 
Jones'  Car." 
Mother  laughed,  a  bright,  happy

26  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1953 
laugh.  "Yes,  Billy,  he  picked  me  up.  runing  to  meet  me.  "Come  on,  boy, 
I  didn't  call,  because  I  wanted  it  to  let's  run  up  the  hill." 
be  a  surprise/'  At  the  top  I  stopped  and  pulled 
A  car  motor  started  out  in  front,  off  my  shoes  and  let  my  feet  dangle 
It  sped  up  and  then  died  away  in  in  the  sand.  The  sun  was  just  go- 
the  distance.  ing  down.    I  looked  across  the  val- 
"Lew  Jones,"  mother  said.  "I  told  ley,  over  the  hill  toward  old  man 
him  the  farm  was  not  for  sale  at  Kilgrew's,    and    I    promised    Pood 
any  price,  but  I  guess  he  waited  a  we'd  go  over  in  the  morning  and 
while  to  be  sure."  »tell  Mr.  Kilgrew  we  were  not  going 
I  felt  so  full  I  could  burst.     I  to  hve  with  him.    I  looked  at  the 
hugged  mother's  legs  as  I  went  by  willows  where  the  frog  pond  was 
because  dad  had  his  arms  around  and  thought  of  the  six  boys  I  was 
the  rest  of  her.     Then  I  bumped  going  to  have,  and  I  would  raise 
into  Bertha  on  her  way  upstairs.  them  here  in  the  valley  and  we 
"Pood!"  I  called,  and  Pood  came  would  live  here  forever  after. 
Vi/e    1 1  Lust    LLmte  to  L^onquer  Lroliom^elitis 
Basil  O'Connor 
President,  The  National  Foundation  for  Infantile  Paralysis 
pOLIO  incidence  is  getting  worse  in  about  the  same  proportion  that 
March  of  Dimes  research  is  getting  better. 
Polio  played  a  game  of  numbers  with  human  lives  in  1952.  In  its 
most  savage  attack  of  all  time,  the  disease  swept  down  upon  the  nation 
and  made  statistics  of  people.  Week  after  week,  in  countless  communi- 
ties, public  interest  was  focused  grimly  upon  numbers— the  significant 
numbers  which,  summed  up  in  cold,  simple  terms,  tell  the  full  extent  of 
polio's  ravages. 
While  scientists  this  year  were  discovering  that  gamma  globulin  pro- 
vides marked,  if  temporary,  protection  against  paralytic  polio,  the  disease 
claimed  more  than  50,000  victims  in  an  outburst  as  perverse  as  it  was  un- 
precedented. 
The  nation  is  in  a  tug-of-war  with  polio,  and  the  help  of  every  Ameri- 
can is  urgently  needed  if  this  crippling  disease  is  ever  to  be  banished  from 
our  environment.  As  polio  casts  its  shadow  over  its  potential  victims  of 
1953,  the  need  for  a  quick  knockout  blow  grows  in  significance.  That 
punch  will  take  a  tremendous  amount  of  March  of  Dimes  funds. 
You  can  bolster  the  1953  March  of  Dimes  campaign  by  giving  it  your 
individual  support  and,  by  urging  every  organization  to  which  you  belong 
to  unite  in  support  of  the  campaign— and  thereby  join  in  what  may  well 
be  polio's  last  stand. 
We  hope  that  you  will  be  able  to  lend  your  strength  to  the  winning 
of  this  war  against  the  only  epidemic  disease  still  on  the  increase  in 
America.