[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: New SnowFrontispiece]
the  Magazine,  but  believe  I  have  received 
most,  along  with  the  frontispiece  pic- 
ture and  poem,  from  the  editorial — 
"From  a  Far  Country" — which  has  the 
metaphor  and  imagery  of  a  poem,  and 
from  the  Httle  article  "Not  Wholly  Your- 
self" (by  Kate  Richards,  page  862).  Also, 
I  shall  use  the  information  given  in 
"Christmas  Aprons  From  Scraps"  (By 
Celia  Luce,  page  835). 
— Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
Dayton,  Idaho 
I  usually  get  to  Church,  sixteen  miles 
away,  Sunday  night,  but,  of  course,  I 
miss  Relief  Society.  I  do  enjoy  the 
Magazine,  which  helps  to  keep  me  abreast 
of  the  activities.  The  Christmas  poetry 
is  excellent.  I  particularly  like  Ruth  H. 
Chadwick's  "Christmas  Preparations"  and 
Martha  Whiting  Brown's  "Journey  to 
the  Holy  Land."  I  was  glad  to  see  an- 
other poem  by  Gertrude  Kovan  ("Early 
Sunrise,"  page  860). 
— Matia  McClelland  Burk, 
Tombstone,  Arizona 
I  just  received  the  December  Reliei  So- 
ciety Magazine,  with  its  beautiful,  uplift- 
ing articles  and  poetry.  I  made  the  de- 
licious almond  tortes  (from  the  recipe  on 
page  190,  March  1951)  and  they  were 
very  much  enjoyed  by  my  guests.  I  am 
going  to  try  some  of  the  other  cookery 
recipes.  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
writers  are  marvelous  authors  of  short 
stories.  Thank  you  for  such  lovely  read- 
ing and  for  the  extremely  practical  house- 
hold suggestions. 
— Helen  McQuarrie  Evans 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Sweden  is  the  best  mission  ever  for  me. 
I  love  to  teach  the  gospel,  and  find  that 
a  mission  helps  to  make  one  alert,  kind, 
studied,  and  clean  in  mind  and  body,  and 
with  all  these  gifts  from  our  Father  in 
heaven,  we  can  reach  the  human  soul  and 
teach  the  principles  of  the  gospel. 
— Hilda  O.  Malmberg 
Kalmar,  Sweden 
ar 
I  have  just  finished  reading  the  article 
"Activities  of  Latter-day  Saint  Women 
in  Europe"  (by  Emma  Ray  McKay,  De- 
cember 1952)  and  it  touched  my  heart 
greatly.  It  so  aptly  proves  that  we  are 
all  of  one  family.  ...  It  is  heartwarming 
to  learn  of  those  in  other  countries  being 
faithful  against  every  obstacle. 
— Mrs.  Mabel  Rogers 
Seattle,  Washington 
Thanks  for  your  lovely  letter  of  ac- 
ceptance of  my  story  "Pot-Head  Kettle." 
Your  letter  brought  with  it  the  thrill  and 
the  joy  which  all  letters  of  acceptance 
bring,  but  it  brought  something  else — a 
closeness,  a  sort  of  belonging,  of  reaching 
out  to  my  own  people.  As  a  child  I 
would  sit  for  hours  listening  to  the  old- 
sters tell  true  experience  stories  of  their 
lives.  Some  day  I  would  like  to  put  those 
stories  in  book  form,  that  others  might  sec 
and  know  those  great  people. 
— Velma  D.  Cloward 
Turlock,  California 
I  would  like  to  say  how  much  I  think 
the  covers  are  of  beauty  this  year.  I 
have  them  lined  up  for  easy  reaching  to 
back  numbers,  and  they  are  like  a  flower 
garden,  with  their  pinks,  yellows,  laven- 
ders, and  greens.  Charming  idea. 
— Frances  C.  Yost 
Bancroft,  Idaho 
Being  a  regular  subscriber  to  The  Re- 
lief Society  Magazine^  I  have  for  many 
years  been  very  interested  in  the  poems 
and  stories  that  are  published  from  time 
to  time,  which  I  feel  sure  are  sent  in  by 
Relief  Society  sisters. 
— Arvella  N.  Jaynes 
Crescent,  Utah 
I  read  and  enjoy  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  so  much — such  clean,  whole- 
some and  inspiring  stories  and  poems,  to- 
gether with  the  wonderful  lesson  outlines, 
articles,  and  features  for  the  home — so 
much  we  gain  by  reading  the  Magazine. 
— -Pauline  O.  Snow 
Ferron,  Utah 
I  have  to  sit  in  a  wheel  chair  now  on 
account  of  arthritis,  but  I  get  a  lot  of 
good  out  of  the  Magazine.  I  enjoy  it 
very  much. — Mrs.  Irene  O.  Clawson 
Hynim,  Utah

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Monthly  Publication  of  the  Relief  Society  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  GENERAL  BOARD 
Belle  S.  Spafford    -------  President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp  _  _  .  .  .  First  Counselor 
Vebna  N.  Simonsen  -----       Second  Counselor 
Margaret  C.  Pickering       -----  Secretary-Treasurer 
Achsa  E.  Paxman  Leone  G.  Layton  Lillie  C.  Adams  Christine  H.  Robinson 
Mary  G.  Judd  Blanche  B.  Stoddard  Louise  W.  Madsen  Alberta  H.  Christensen 
Anna  B.  Hart  Evon  W.  Peterson  Aleine  M.  Young  Nellie  W.  Neal 
Edith  S.  Elliott  Leone  O.  Jacobs  Josie  B.  Bay  Mildred  B.  Eyring 
Florence  J.  Madsen  Mary  J.  Wilson  Alta  J.  Vance  Helen  W.  Anderson 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Editor         -           -----------  Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Associate  Editor  -----------  Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager          ----------  Belle  S.  Spafford 
Vol.  40  t^       FEBRUARY  1953  No.  2 
e ontents 
SPECIAL  FEATURES 
The  Fluorescence  of  the  Lamanites       Spencer  W.  Kimball    76 
*'Wings  of  the  Morning"  _ 
 Ruth  Young  106 
FICTION 
"Morning's  at  Seven"  —  Second  Prize  Story   Mabel  S.  Harmer    82 
Charlie's  Wife  _ 
 Shirley   Sargent    89 
Trite.  But  True          Iris  W.  Schow  102 
A  Time  to  Forget  —  Chapter  8  
 Fay  Tarlock  116 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
From  Near  and  Far  
 _ 
 _    74 
Sixty  Years  Ago  _   „   „   ~ 
 „   „    96 
Woman's  Sphere  —   _ 
 Ramona  W.  Cannon  97 
Editorial:  "Whosoever  Will  Be  Great  Amona  You"   _   Vesta  P.  Crawford  98 
Birthday  Greetings  to  President  Amy  Brown  Lyman    _        99 
Notes  From  the  Field:  Relief  Society  Activties   _   _ 
 „   _   
      General  Secretary-Treasurer  Margaret  C.  Pickering  121 
FEATURES  FOR  THE  HOME 
A  Party  That's  Different    „   _   _ 
 Yvonne  Child  Hiss  102 
Adventure  in  Glass — ^VII.    Old  Glass  in  New  Houses    Alberta  H.  Christensen  108 
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
Theology:  The  Words  of  Jacob  Recorded  by  Nephi    Leland  H.  Monson  126 
Visiting   Teacher   Messages:    "And   If   It   So   Be   That   the    Children   of   Men   Keep   the 
Commandments' '  _   _       ._   Leone  O.  Jacobs  130 
Work  Meeting:  Use  and  Distribution  of  Income  _ 
 _   Rhea  H.  Gardner  131 
Literature:  Readings  in  Romanticism — A  Review  _   _   „   Briant  S.  Jacobs  132 
Social  Science:  Destiny  of  the  Earth  and  Man    Archibald  F.  Bennett  137 
POETRY 
Lehi  Wakes  Again — Frontispiece        Dorothy  J.  Roberts    73 
The  Dispossessed  _   ~   _ 
   Zera  Wilde  Earl    88 
My  Hearth  Rug  
 _     Ethel  Hopper    88 
The  Familiar  Dark  _   _ 
 _ 
 Margery  S.  Stewart    94 
Night      _   _   _   _   Grace  Barker  Wilson    95 
Afterthought      _   Beulah   Huish  Sadleir  101 
George  Washington    _ 
     „ 
 _   Christie  Lund  Coles  107 
Old  Couple    _ 
 _   Grace  Sayre  115 
Nostalgia    _ 
 , 
 „   Ouida  Johns   Pedersen  125 
Forever  Summer  
 Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard  136 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  40  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah,  Phone  3-2741;  Sub- 
scriptions 246;  Editorial  Dept.  245.  Subscription  Price:  $1.50  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year; 
payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  15c.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No 
back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change 
of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  ia  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  nmnuscripts.

The  Fluorescence  of  the  Lamanites 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference,  October  i,  1952] 
I    
pay  tribute  to  you,  the  mothers  not  reach  out  and  bring  into  our 
of  Israel,  and  thank  the  Lord  numbers  the  millions  of  good,  hon- 
for  you,  and  for  the  glorious  orable  people  of  the  world,  who  are 
work  that  you  are  doing  in  Zion.  searching  for  the  truth. 
I  come  to  realize  more  and  more,  The  stake  missionary  program,  as 
as  my  experience  broadens,  the  vast  now  re-org*nized,  is  under  the  di- 
influence  and  power  that  a  small  rection  of  President  Stephen  L 
minority  may  wield  in  this  world,  Richards  of  the  First  Presidency, 
in  politics,  in  religion,  in  social  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  is 
activities, ^everywhere  you  go.  A  ^^e  chairman  of  all  of  the  mission- 
small  group,  united  in  purpose,  a^y  endeavor.  There  is  a  sub-com- 
with  definite  goals,  may  greatly  in-  mittee  on  the  stake  missionary 
fluence  the  great  majorities.  work,  and  included  in  the  stake  mis- 
Sister  Spafford  mentioned  that  sionary  work  is  the  proselyting  of 
the  subject  of  my  talk  would  be  the  the  minority  groups. 
Indian  Relations  work.  I  should  This  is  not  limited  to  the  In- 
like  to  broaden  that  slightly,  and  dians,  though  in  many  of  the  stakes, 
discuss  with  you  the  minority  pro-  perhaps  half  of  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
gram.  the  Indian  program  looms  the  larg- 
Last  year  the  brethren  saw  fit  to  est  of  all  the  minority  groups.  How- 
reorganize  the  proselyting  program  ever,  we  have  far  more  Lamanite 
within  the  stakes  of  Zion.  The  First  people  speaking  the  Spanish  Ian- 
Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the  guage  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and 
Twelve  were  brought  into  the  pro-  there  are  areas  where  the  Japanese 
gram  with  the  First  Council  of  the  are  predominant,  and  there  are 
Seventy,  and  some  additional  pres-  other  minority  groups— the  Greeks, 
tige  has  come  to  this  great  program,  the  Italians,  and  others. 
The  35,000-odd  conversions  in  the  It  is  the  purpose  of  the  stake  mis- 
past  fifteen  years  under  the  First  sionary  work  to  reach  out  and 
Council  of  the  Seventy  have  proved  proselyte,  and  bring  into  the 
the  power  of  this  work.  Church  these  many  wonderful  peo- 
I  feel  that  we  have  hardly  pie.  It  is  far  easier  for  us  to  teach 
scratched  the  surface  in  the  pros-  the  gospel  to  the  Japanese,  the  Chi- 
elyting  endeavor  in  the  stakes  of  nese,  the  Italians,  the  Greeks,  and 
Zion.  Now  that  stakes  are  scat-  the  Spanish,  here,  rather  than  to  go 
tered  from  ocean  to  ocean,  from  to  their  homeland  where  laws  and 
the  north  to  the  south,  and  we  have  competition  and  persecution  as  well 
strong  leadership  and  many  people,  as  the  language  barrier,  control  and 
there  is  no  reason  now  why  we  can-  limit  our  efforts. 
Page  76
