[Vol40 | January 1953 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Jane Austen]
@ Se eratire—Tic Literature of England Lesson 31—Jane Austen (1775-1817) Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 21, 1953
Objective: To attempt to understand Jane Austen's world of reality. INCE Jane Austen was _ born within the same five-year period as Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Robert Southey (1770-1775), she should be classed with this first generation of romantic writers, particularly since her premature death at age forty-two occurred in 1817, before Byron, Shelley, and Keats had begun to produce their mature writings. Yet she can nev. Er be classified as one of this group, since her life was spent in isolation from romanticism, surrounded though she was by its vogues, and since much of what she wrote was created expressly to oppose what she considered its excesses. And if further points of difference are. Needed, it might be noted that she was a woman writer when such a combination was still not entirely 

 —JANUARY respectable; she flaunted the fact that she came of a family who were great novel-readers without being ashamed of the fact; and instead of writing poetry she indulged in novels. In addition, she was the youngest of seven children, the spinster daughter of a rural clergyman, living a life which to many of the romantics would at the very least be called dull. Her Quiet Life For those moderns who think they would like to write but who hesitate, they like to tell themselves, because "Nothing has ever happened to me'—for these selfdeceivers, the unique achievement of Jane Austen should provide silencing proof of their folly.
Since at this time, and long afterward, women were not considered worthy of an education, she was taught to read and write and cipher and no more.
Privilege of living vicariously, since the great works of claSsical literature were not presented to her. We do not know that she was ever courted.
Since she never had husband or household or offspring of her own, all the dependent realities were denied her. Her life was spent with her parents and sisters in cooking and sewing and dusting and sweeping and gossiping and reading and corresponding. Her occasional trips to Bath and London, and her brother Edward's house in Kent, were her only escape from her confined existence.
Motives for Writing 'During her entire life she had not one contact with other people skilled or interested in literature.
Thus she was denied the 1953 JANE AUSTEN 1775-1817 As a child she began writing to amuse herself and her family; at twenty-one she wrote her first novel, penned while she sat in the front room with the usual family gossip and events going on about her. As each chapter was completed she read it aloud for the amusement and approval of her family. So well did she know her characters that she often told extended incidents in their lives which were not included in the book. Her first novel, Sense and Sensibility, was not published until fourteen years after it was written. In 1803 she had been paid ten pounds for the manuscript of her Northanger Abbey, but it was never published in her lifetime, a fact which undoubtedly delayed her presenting her other novels to the public: Pride and Prejudice (1813), Mans- LESSON DEPARTMENT field Park (1814), and Emma (1815). Her last novel, Persuasion, was not published until after her death and then, like all the others, it appeared anonymously. Her books sold very slowly during her lifetime and after her death. For example, the 1833 edition of her collected works was not sold out until 1882, almost fifty years later.
Never could she have dreamed that the day would come when, for every copy of Sir Walter Scott that was sold, hundreds of copies of her novels would be bought and read by a reading public so loyal as to become almost a cult.
Style and Tone For many critics Jane Austen is the first realistic novelist in the English tradition.
Applying to her very limited world the principles of common sense, reason, and restraint which she highly esteemed in her "Dear Dr. Samuel Johnson," Miss Austen, to quote her own words, worked "with so fine a brush" on her "little bit (two inches wide) of ivory" to achieve the sharpness and precision of a skillfully wrought cameo. As a literary housekeeper, she plans her work most carefully to make each phase of her work fit neatly into the pattern of the whole. She is meticulou$ in her cleanliness, and so efficient that it has been aptly said of her that "she never drops a stitch." Her tone is one of balance and calm.
Never does she scold nor rant; never hurries by that which is important, nor overemphasizes the petty. Her style has so delicate and sensitive a touch that it shines with "a celestial brightness." So clear and clean 63 and easy is her style that, somewhat mistakenly, her Pride and Prejudice is currently being advertized with Black Beauty and Treasure Island and other books for children. Because Miss Austen had no literary critics, friends, or reading public to impress, she could write in whatever manner she pleased about whatever subjects appealed to her.
Because she did just this, her novels have a freshness and charm which cannot ever be mistaken as counterfeit. Also, because it amused her to portray the human comedy ironically, her pages are filled with a light but.
Piercing humor.
Sometimes this humor is subtle; sometimes she overwrites slightly, and her caricature of someone's weakness, or the moral quality, emphasized, becomes too apparent. For the most part, however, her controlled, humorous approach to her characters is entirely successful, and we feel both the force of their individualities and the weakness within their make-ups which makes them human, and therefore fit subjects for her sharp eye and pen. She was perfectly aware that comedy, pushed too far, soon can become tragedy in a most powerful form. Subject Matter of Novels Since her purpose was to create a miniature of her own real world, Jane Austen never discussed those areas which were not real and actual therein.
Never does she write a scene without at least one woman present.
Within her novels there is little concern with crime, politics, wars, religion, and passion.
Love is central to her theme, but someone 64 has counted the number of kisses in all her novels: sixteen, and none of them described in terms made so familiar by Hollywood.
About detailing the passion of love she constantly shows a reticence, yet she successfully moves the imagination of the reader to supply by implication what she has not mentioned; thus the emotion of love is present, but proper. If she is to be a realist, and paint her world as it is, she cannot agree with one of her overly romantic characters, who says that "facts are such horrid things." She never violates her integrity by calling a spade anything but a spade, and neither does she forget her constant purpose of creating each of her characters to represent some moral trait, mortal and weak, either because of excess or shortage of sense, emotion, pride, or prejudice. 'This is done that the moral truths which underlie her world may be pointed out for a potential audience who accepts Miss Austen's views of society and morality without question.
While she will not warp reality as she defined it to herself, Miss Austen continually finds within this mortal reality illustration for certain moral truths.
