[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Apple Blossoms]
APPLE  BLOSSOMS

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
VOL.  35,  NO.  5  MAY  1948 
LULLABY 
Margery  S.  Stewart 
Tuck  the  coverlet  of  night  • 
Around  all  small  and  helpless  things. 
Babies  in  their  broken  cribs, 
Babies  in  their  silken  beds, 
While  the  wind  in  locust  sings 
Lullabies  for  nodding  heads. 
Let  the  tumult  of  the  day 
Be  folded  now  and  put  away; 
Let  the  troubles  and  the  fears 
Be  lost  with  the  unsolaced  tears. 
Light  the  lamps  of  little  stars, 
Let  new  clouds  float  by  to  see 
That  no  small  one  cries  in  vain, 
That  the  reaching  hands  are  filled 
And  the  lost  held  tenderly; 
Every  anguished  sob  be  stilled. 
Moonlight  kiss  the  cheeks  of  boys, 
Leave  them  silver  dreams  for  toys. 
Through  the  braids  of  little  girls, 
Weave  your  white  and  fragile  pearls. 
The  Cover:  "Fish  Lake,  Utah/'  by  Glen  Perrins.

Let  Every  Day  Be  Mother's  Day 
Camilla  Eyiing  Kimhall 
THE  observance  of  Mother's  comes  the  parent  and  so  in  turn 
Day  has  become  an  impres-  cares  for  a  succeeding  generation, 
sive  outward  demonstration  The  laws  of  God  operate  in  perfect 
of  the  latent  love  and  gratitude  to  justice  and  bring  happiness  so  long 
mothers.  It  comes  by  a  gift,  words  as  we  live  in  accordance  with  them, 
of  appreciation,  acts  of  kindness,  or  It  is  only  when  we  selfishly  seek  to 
letters  on  the  part  of  everyone,  thwart  them  that  troubles  and  disap- 
Mothei  is  a  magic  word,  calling  pointments  come.  The  laws  of  com- 
forth  a  train  of  memories  in  the  pensation  and  retribution  are  never- 
mind of  each  individual,  accompa-  failing,  though  payment  may  be 
nied  by  a  variety  of  emotions  de-  sometimes  deferred.  There  may 
pending  upon  how  some  woman  amass  an  ever  larger  and  larger  debt, 
has  fulfilled  this  sacred  trust.  but  eventually  it  must  be  liquidated. 
Motherhood  is  a  career  of  the  first  Wise  indeed  is  the  individual  who 
magnitude   and    is    the   instinctive  pays  as  he  goes  in  so  far  as  this  is 
ambition  of  every  girl.    Nature  may  possible.     Love  and   you    shall    be 
endow  her  with  the  physical  poten-  loved.    Serve  and  you  shall  receive 
tiality  of  motherhood,  but  to  be-  service. 
come  an  ideal  mother  will  take  the  Protective    mother    love    is    the 
combined  training  of  home,  church,  guardian  of  youth,   but  protection 
and  school.    Above  all  must  come  too  long  continued  makes  for  weak- 
her  own  realization  of  the  tremen-  ness,  not  strength,  in  the  child.    To 
dous  responsibility  which  this  sacred  watch  the  tiny,  helpless  infant  grow 
calling  entails.  Her  physical,  men-  and  develop  under  your  constant, 
tal,  moral,  emotional,  and  spiritual  watchful  care  is  to  see  a  miracle 
development  are  of   prime  impor-  wrought.    To  live  again  in  the  en- 
tance  to  the  generation  she  mothers,  thusiasm  and  activity  of  youth  with 
To  be  daughter,  mother,  and  your  children  is  to  intensify  and  en- 
grandmother,  is  to  make  the  des-  rich  life's  drama.  To  be  counselor 
tined  cycle  of  womanhood  and  to  and  protector,  knowing  when  to 
know  the  joys,  responsibilities,  and  assist  and  when  to  recede  into  the 
development  which  these  experi-  background,  that  your  child  may 
ences  bring.  Because  they  call  for  learn  to  walk  alone,  calls  for  almost 
personal  sacrifice  and  self-mastery,  superhuman  wisdom.  Wise  indeed 
their  value  is  enhanced.  The  child  is  the  mother  who  has  found  the 
accepts  the  care  and  devotion  of  a  source  of  divine  aid  through  prayer 
self-sacrificing  mother  as  his  birth-  and  who  begins  with  the  little  child 
right.  But  the  law  of  life  exacts  at  her  knee,  teaching  him  to  pray 
full  payment  for  everything  we  get.  to  our  all-wise  Heavenly  Father  for 
This  nurturing  of  our  childhood  the  strength  which  will  protect  him 
may  be  repaid  in  part  by  loving  de-  against  the  forces  of  evil.  A  true 
votion  to  parents,  but  the  debt  is  mother's  objective  is  to  teach  and 
never  paid  in  full  until  the  child  be-  train  wisely  until  she  can  say  with 
Page  292