[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Meetings]
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
353 
many  handmade  aprons,  crocheted  chair  backs,  laundry  bags,  embroidered  scarves,  em- 
broidered and  stenciled  luncheon  sets,  the  majority  of  these  articles  being  made  from 
feed  sacks.  The  display  of  pillow  slips  was  particularly  outstanding,  with  intricate  and 
beautiful  designs  in  cutwork,  applique,  and  embroidery.  Many  useful  and  well- 
made  articles  for  babies  were  exhibited,  including  dresses,  jackets,  sunsuits,  gowns,  bibs, 
baby  quilts,  and  stuffed  toys.  Among  the  household  articles  were  potholders,  dish  tow- 
els, shoe  bags,  cosmetic  bags,  house  shoes,  knitting  bags,  hose  driers,  and  many  other 
useful  articles.  Homemade  pies  and  cakes  were  also  sold  at  the  bazaar.  In  all,  514 
articles  were  made  by  the  thirty  members  of  this  Rehef  Society. 
Erma  M.  Stewart  is  president  of  Mount  Graham  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Photograph  submitted  by   Melva  O.  Stratford 
NORTH  WEBER  STAKE  (UTAH),  WILSON  WARD,  THREE  GENERATIONS 
OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  WORKERS  ASSEMBLED  IN  REUNION  AT  THE 
CLOSE  OF  UTAH'S  CENTENNIAL  YEAR 
In  the  front  row  are  nine  of  the  thirteen  women  who  have  acted  as  ward  presidents 
since  the  society  was  organized  as  a  "Female  Charitable  Organization  of  the  Wilson  Pre- 
cinct of  West  Weber  Ward,  July  10,  1878."  Left  to  right:  Carol  C.  Nash,  present 
president;  Ehzabeth  H.  Wilson,  whose  parents  were  early  settlers  of  West  Weber.  The 
Wilson  Ward  was  named  for  her  husband's  people;  Laura  C.  Piatt,  granddaughter  of 
one  of  the  founders  of  Nauvoo,  Illinois;  Lillian  B.  Belnap,  whose  grandmother.  Genet 
Bingham,  was  the  first  president  of  the  Wilson  Ward  Relief  Society;  Drucilla  H.  Mc- 
Farland,  whose  grandmother,  Sarah  Ann  Martin,  was  second  president  of  the  organiza- 
tion and  counselor  to  the  first  president;  Melva  O.  Stratford,  present  president,  of  North 
Weber  Stake  Relief  Society;  Gladys  H.  Sorenson,  granddaughter  of  West  Weber  pio- 
neers; Esther  E.  Bingham,  granddaughter-in-law  of  Amanda  Bingham,  first  secretary  of 
the  society;  Rosalia  B.  Strickler,  whose  parents  were  converts  from  Switzerland. 
Representative  of  the  group  in  general,  is  Idella  M.  Johnson,  seventh  from  the 
left  in  the  next  to  the  top  row.  She  attended  the  first  meetings  of  the  society  as  infant 
daughter  of  Sarah  Ann  Martin,  young  pioneer  wife  who  came  to  the  "West-of- Weber" 
country  when  it  was  still  inhabited  by  Indians  (1856).  Sister  Martin  was  president  for 
twenty-eight  years.     Sister  Johnson  has  served  as  treasurer  and  as  a  visiting  teacher. 
The  minutes  of  this  society,  through  the  years,  show  many  interesting  accomplish- 
ments, such  as  the  gradual  development  of  the  welfare  plan  from  the  time  the  women 
went  visiting  with  a  baby  on  one  arm  and  a  basket  for  gathering  contributions  on  the 
other  arm.  Carpet  rags,  homemade  soap,  wheat,  flour,  thread,  and  other  items  were 
contributed.  Now,  many  of  these  faithful  sisters,  descendants  of  the  pioneers,  are  work- 
ing efficiently  in  canneries  and  sewing  centers  where  shiploads  of  provisions  are  pre- 
pared to  aid  the  people  in  lands  far  distant  from  the  home  valley.