[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: What About Rolph]

Page 305
What About Cancer? Jess H. Rolph [Prepared for the Utah Division, American Cancer Society] OT many people know what cancer is, yet one person out of every eight in the United States dies from it, or as a result of its deadly action.. True, there are many unanswered questions about cancer, many false notions concerning it, but, thanks to the work of the American Cancer Society, there is much we do know. It is not a disease that is infectious, nor does it enter the body from the outside, but, like the stealthy sneak it is, it comes from within! Cancer has been defined as a group of normal body cells that start abnormal growth, pushing aside the other cells in their ruthless conquest of the body. Though the causes of cancer are varied, it is known that it never develops in healthy body tissue. For example, irregularity of eating does not cause cancer, but it may result in unhealthy conditions within the digestive system, which sooner or later give rise to it. One half of all cases of cancer are found in the digestive tract; approximately onethird are in the stomach. One factor in the development of this disease is continual or chronic irritation. It is as though the cells of some body tissue lose patience, break into open revolution, and begin building up their rebel army through cell division. There are three types of irritants: chemical, thermal, and mechanical, Page 306
Continued Over-exposure to hot sun and high temperatures may be the cause of skin cancer.
Constant rubbing of a mole, wart, or old scar may be sufficient mechanical irritation to cause rebellion and growth of malignant tissue.
Certain people are more susceptible to cancer.
Whether this is due to the faulty functioning of certain chemical substances in the body, or to some other condition, is, as yet, unknown. One job of the Ameri. Can Cancer Society is to have research done on this puzzling phenomenon.
Cancer victims are to be found among young and old, men and women, married and unmarried, No age group is free from it.
Babies are sometimes born with it and over two thousand people under twentyone die of cancer every year.
Among men the danger zones for cancer are the lips, lungs, stomach, prostate gland, intestines, rectum, throat, and mouth.
Among women the _ hazardous spots are the womb, breasts, intestines, rectum, stomach and genitourinary organs. An unmarried woman is more likely to have cancer of the breast than a married woman who nurses her children, while cancer of the cervix occurs more often among married women who have borne children.
Cancer can be cured but only WHAT ABOUT CANCER?
When diagnosed early and treated adequately!
There are many things you can do to guard against cancer.
Many cancers can be cured if*caught in time!
There are danger signals.
Memorize these seven signs. 1. Any sore that does not heal particularly about the tongue, mouth, or lips. 2. A painless lump or thickening, especially in the breast, lip, or tongue. 3.
Irregular bleeding or discharge from any natural body opening. Do not wait for pain. See your doctor! 4. Progressive.
Change in the color or size of a wart, mole, or birthmark. 5.
Persistent indigestion. 6.
Persistent hoarseness, unexplained cough, or difficulty in swallowing. 7. Any change in the normal bowel habits. Do not attempt to diagnose yourself. Go to the doctor! A very good idea is to arrange for periodic health examinations for yourself and your family.
Imagine the joy that knowing you are all right would bring! A thorough examination should include: 1.
Careful inspection of the entire body surface and heart, blood vessels, and a lung examination. 2.
Examination by sight and touch of all body openings that can be so examined, such as the mouth, nostrils, ears, throat, sinuses, vagina, and rectum. 3.
Examination of stomach and _intestines by X-ray; microscopic examination of blood, urine, and any suspected tissue. 4. Examination' of the eye, bladder, prostate gland in man, and special examination of breasts of women.
Education on the subject of cancer is of utmost importance, and each state has a divisional cancer 307 society.
These organizations are supported by contributions from the public and every donation made goes toward furthering the study of and the eliminating of this dreaded disease.
Families have been kept intact; breadwinners have been helped to stay on the job; emotional tragedy has been averted and financial suffering has been decreased.
Only you can save yourself from cancer. The cancer societies have but one mission to perform: through your contributions and the efforts of thousands of volunteers and active members an endeavor is made to eliminate this scourge, cancer!
Public education, through the press, radio, literature, films, display, and public speakers, helps enlighten the public. All this magnificent work is dependent upon the contributions made to the Cancer Fund.
Three paragraphs which appeared in the Montana Cancer News express completely the feeling that goes into the making of contributions: In religion we are taught that the good deeds we do on earth store for us jewels in a heavenly crown. But I like to think that man need not wait for heaven to receive his reward. The well-known truism "It is better to give than to receive" has often been proven by the wealth of personal and spiritual satisfaction one acquires from giving of oneself freely in unselfish service to others.
There is no greater fuel to feed the flaming fire of the human spirit than unselfish service to mankind: The server serves without thought of payment, but the joy of service and the knowledge that a job which needed doing has been done, brings its own reward!