[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Seven to Wright]

Seven to One Geneva E. Wright THIS isn't a scheme to get something for nothing. It is, however, a sure-fire plan which pays big dividends on a small investment.
People say, "I hate to write letters, but I love to get em."
Being one of that class myself, I worked out a plan whereby I get seven letters back for every one I write.
With mature families scattered, since the war, all over this globe, many of them, like Humpty-Dumpty, will never be together again.
Letters are the cheapest means of contact with them, but letters, even to loved ones, have a way of being spaced farther apart as time goes on, unless something special is done about it. My scheme is an adaptation of the old "round-robin" applied to family units, and the bigger the group the better.
Everybody in the family joins in writing a letter and adds it to the envelope as it reaches him.
After it makes the rounds once, each person takes out his old letter and puts in a new one. And around it goes again!
Many people have contributed to a round-robin at one time or another, which flew around on strong wings a few times, then fluttered weakly and died en route. But a family robin is a healthier bird, hatched as he is in a nest of affection, fed by seeds of kindness, and bathed in smiles and tears. His life expectancy should rate him A-1 on an insurance policy, and with a few crumbs of imagination and understanding sprinkled on the window sill for him as he makes his rounds, he should be good for many years as a messenger of family love. I was lucky enough to be born in a family of seven children, knit close by the needles of necessity into a fabric rich in pride and self-reliance. We all grew up eventually and "married off," scattering from Florida to California, and when mother and father died, the.
Threads which had held us together became tenuous indeed.
Correspondence dwindled to a printed card at Christmas time or a cursory letter betimes, until the robin idea was finally hatched.
Since then he has been flying high, making his visit about every three or four months, and when the big manila envelope arrives marked "letter mail," there is always a family reunion of those living near. A brother in California writes that he is a cub scout leader and would like some Indian beads to decorate war bonnets for the cubs, and, since I live on an Indian reservation, asks me to please send him some.
Another brother makes up a booklet of snapshots of his new home, beginning with a view of his wife and family welcoming us at the front door and taking us on a tour of each room, with appropriate remarks written underneath the pictures. A sister tells of her ensign son in the South Pacific and includes pictures and clipping of his adventures as published in the local paper. Page 303 304 UCH occurrences as graduations, special awards for achievement, and weddings are, of course, rich grist for the letter mill. One round is occasionally taken over by the inlaws, providing an objective viewpoint, for a change, and we see ourselves as others see us; and, on another flight, the nieces and nephews do the honors.
Another sister is interested in family trees and keeps the births, deaths, and marriages of everyone down to the latest tick of the clock, besides delving into the family skeletons of the past to determine who fought where during the Revolution, and where the fighters came from before that.
Poetry of a sort creeps into the letters when another sister can't express herself adequately in prose. The weather and superior climate of various parts of the United States furnish many a hot debate, especially between Floridans and Californians.
Quizzes and questionnaires proved diverting for a time and, of course, pictures are always a must. One clever letter was made up entirely of printed words, phrases, and pictures
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1948 clipped from magazines and put together with finesse and imagination to fit the situation, and was good for a dozen chuckles. In fact, there is no end to the variations which can be used to make each round a surprise. Naturally, the basis for all of this is the good newsy letter telling what Jane has been up to, that Dad just got over the flu, of the party that Sue attended and brought home the prize, and, most important of all, simply saying, "I love you all." An unwritten rule is that personalities and unpleasant topics, if any, are to be reserved for individual letters. The robin is a harbinger of joy and can thrive only when carrying pleasant messages. And, strangely enough, the urge to write some individual letters also has developed as a result. Something Ruth says in her letter makes me want to tell of my experience which wouldn't be of interest to the rest of the family, so off goes a separate letter to her, and thus the chain lengthens and strengthens. If your family relations need perking up, try starting a cheery round robin. He makes sweet music and is a welcome lovebird, besides.