[Vol35 | May 1948 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Belle Watson Anderson]
Questing Lights CHAPTER 2
Belle Watson Anderson Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay bids farewell to his mother, his relatives, and friends in Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America. Andrew's fianc e, Jane Allison, is broken-hearted and fears that she will never see Andrew again. HEN Andrew and Hugh arrived at the wharf, some of their buoyancy left them. As they carried their luggage from the dray over to the ship, they became very serious. "Let's set our things down for a time, and rest on this bench," Hugh suggested.
England was different from Scotland.
Nature seemed more controlled, subdued. The boys sat gazing at the soft, blue sky and the glorious sunset., "More like a painted picture than the real thing," Andrew voiced his opinion. "In Scotland those white clouds would soon get to tumbling over one another and scampering hither and yon." "Aye, but look at that harbor.
Things don't happen in the Forth the way they are happening out there," Hugh volunteered. "I was just looking at it," Andrew responded. "Ships, boats, tugs, running about, getting ready for the sea." "They will soon be leaving for -about every port in the world." The boys watched the moving scenes, whistles blowing, men shouting orders, vessels moving from the docks, others taking their places. A Page 340 sailboat, like a bird with raised pinions, was gracefully maneuvering about. "There's the ship Thornton," Hugh slowly reiterated. His eyes seemed fairly glued to the ship that was to take them to America. "Well, there's the ship, and here's the ocean. It seems if we hang around for a time, we may take off for some place." "You're right, Andrew."
Some of Hugh's natural cheer returned.
They arose, picked up their luggage, and began moving toward the vessel. The ship was loaded with freight and several hundred passengers and the order of the hour was choosing permanent quarters. The bunks, upper and lower, reached all around the ship and down the center. The galley was on one side and tables were built and pegged on the stanchions, to be raised and lowered at will. "Andrew! Hugh!" It was Bob MacKinlay coming toward them as fast as he could push through the crowd. The boys smiled when they saw him, and hurried to meet him. "We had a mind, if we looked about we would find someone we knew," Hugh said. "Our bunk is over this way.
There is an empty one next to it.
Mother would like you to have it, so she can look after you. She would never be content with only one chick to scratch for.
Will you come?" QUESTING LIGHTS "Will we come?"
Hugh laughed. "Lead the way, your mother has just acquired a family." Bob took them over to Mother MacKinlay who was happy to see them.
They had often stayed at her home in Cowdenbeath when they were doing home missionary work. HE ship was fast filling up.
Soon there would be more than six hundred saints aboard.
Andrew slept well that first night. He woke early, and as Hugh was still asleep, rose and went on deck. It was a beautiful morning. The ship was rising and falling with the waves., The elder's heart felt like that  rising because he was on his way to Zion falling when he thought of home and loved ones.
Once again he wondered if he was doing the right thing. It would not be long until the ship would be sailing, then he could not turn back if he wanted to. He meditated for a few minutes, then went almost running to the bunk.
Hugh was making the bed. "How long have you been up, Andrew?" His friend did not answer.
Hugh looked up. "Come sit by me on the bunk. You are taking this trip too seriously." "Andrew covered his face with his hands, trying for self-control. "Let's have prayers, Hugh, before the saints begin moving about. You pray. I just can't this morning." The boys knelt and during prayer peace filled their hearts.
Andrew found his anchor. The boys were hungry. The fresh, salt air was doing things to their appetites. 341
Hugh returned from the galley, half laughing. He handed Andrew his breakfast. "Strange work for a Scotchman. I never served a meal in my life." "Nor I," Andrew responded. "That's what mothers are for. I guess we've taken our mothers too much for granted." "By the way, Rumgay, how are your mother's scones this morning?" "Fine," answered his friend, "and your mother's griddle cakes?" "The best ever!"
Hugh answered as he half-choked on his porridge, "a special treat from our mothers this morning."
Andrew washed the dishes and put the table in place. He opened his kist and took out his Book of Mormon and his father's hymn book, which his mother had given him as a keepsake. He opened the hymn book and for a time read hymns. He began humming some of the tunes. He had always wanted to sing the gospel He turned to his mother's favorite, "Lead Kindly Light." He used to sing it with her. He began to sing, smoothly for a time, but when he got to the middle of the verse, he was at the end of the tune; when he got to the end of the verse he was in the middle of the tune. He tried again, with the same results.
Hugh came up unnoticed.
Andrew determined not to give up and kept on singing. Shand, holding his sides with laughter, fell: on the bunk. He laughed until Rumgay began to see the funny side, too, and joined him in the fun. 342 THE British mission president attended the priesthood meeting. Brother Byron Wood was chosen president of the company. Andrew Rumgay was made first counselor, and Erick Nelson, the second. William Walker was sustained as clerk. The president explained that the organization represented the conference in the mission field or the stake in Zion. Later, wards would be organized and fully officered. He asked the people to take care of their health by cleanliness, right health habits, and by keeping the Word of Wisdom.
After the meeting Andrew was greeted by the officers and _ his friends and acquaintances who promised him their help and support. He could not believe that it was true.
Hugh was delighted, for, as he told Andrew, the best way to forget one's own troubles, is to help others solve theirs. The shades of evening were falling fast on the harbor and on the city of Liverpool, on the towers of its churches, and on the joys and cares of its people. A tugboat was puffing and spouting, its lines fast to the Thornton. "All ashore that's going ashore!" Andrew's heart stood still.
Could it be possible? Yes, the ship was moving. He went on deck. A fair wind was blowing down the river. The sails were being loosed to the breeze.
Andrew watched the ship move forward first on the power of the tugs, then on its own power. He stood in meditation and in prayer.
This life was like the ocean, every wave a second on the sea of time, and each persistently passing; the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1948 inland waves were moving towards home and security; the outgoing waves were strangely adrift. The responsibility of over six hundred people was divided. The officers followed the mission president's recommendation and divided the stake into wards and chose officers for each group. In this way the president could know the condition of every saint aboard. The Scotch Ward was asked for entertainment for one Friday afternoon and Brother Coleman, the choir leader, prepared the program. He chose talented members of the group to take part.
These included Hugh who sang tenor and had thrilled so many Latter-day Saint gatherings in Scotland, Brother Coleman's daughter Kathleen, who had studied music in Edinburg, and Fannie and Agnes Ramsay as highland fling dancers. The choir held several rehearsals and, after one of them, Hugh came back dancing and singing. "Today I met the real Scotch heather.
What a girl!
Have you met Brother Coleman's daughter?"
Andrew looked up with a questioning smile. "Don't tell me you've fallen again, Shand? I was thinking you were cured. You haven't been in love since we came aboard." "Miss Coleman is different." "That much I can say for them all," Andrew responded. "Imagine meeting her right here on the Thornton," Hugh continued. "Ladies travel the seven seas, too. There's no law against that," Andrew answered.
