First in our gallery of pictures, we place the photograph of Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of our Prophet, the Church founder. Next Mrs. Rachel Ivins Grant, mother of President Heber J. Grant, who is now the President of the Church. We desire that these two women, whose noble example stands out through the years, shall symbolize the glories of motherhood that form part and portion of the homes builded and consecrated by Latter-day Saint women. We wish to say, in modesty and humility, that we believe no better homes have ever come into being than those created by Latter-day Saints. Through Sister Smith and Sister Grant we pay tribute to the motherhood of the Church.
Relief Society Activities
Our next photographs are of people who are in charge of various activities sponsored by the General Board of the Relief Society. First, we present President Louise Y. Robison, who, in addition to discharging the duties of General President, is at the head of the Burial Clothes Department of the General Board. This department has carried on its work in a highly efficient manner. There have been crises making the demand on this department very great, but it has always met its obligations. President Robison is also the business manager of the Magazine.
Welfare Work
Next we present Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, who is at the head of the Welfare Department. Since Mrs. Lyman first began the study of modern social work in Denver, she has kept in close touch with advanced methods. The aim of the department is to adapt these modern methods to the needs and conditions of Latter-day Saints. Its influence has been felt in practically every ward and stake in Zion.
Education
Mrs. Julia A. Child is chairman of the lesson work. This department furnishes work in religious education, literature, and social
196
service. Throughout the years these courses have been pursued with great interest by women all over the Church. They are the important feature of the program at the weekly meetings.
Secretary's Department