[Vol39 | September 1952 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Board | Title: Relief Society Bulletin Cover and Masthead]
Vol. 39 SEPTEMBER 1952 No. 9
A Ai VEL SOCIETY Al MAGA ZIWN Aftermath of Summer Katherine F. Larsen When waning summer's richness lingers, Down bright air Float sounds like sun the leaves are sifting— Everywhere The children's voices rising, falling, Interplay Like leaves in sun and shade; their laughter Light and fey. Now summer leaves are yellowing—falling— Down blue air Lie secret empty lanes still haunted Everywhere By wraiths of laughter.
Lonely lost winds Seek and sigh, Searching out paths whcre school-bound children Chattered by.
Seasons must change; autumn's hushed hours Follow after | Each summer, golden and rich with sun And children's laughter. The Cover: Crystal Springs Dam, California Photograph by Don Knight. Frontispiece Photograph: Autumn in Owens Valley, California, by Don Knight From Near and Sar I think Sister Maggie Tolman Porter ought to be commended on her story "A Message in Action" (July 1952).
Every member of Relief Society ought to read it and put it into practice.
Whether we are Relief Society teachers or what part we play in this great organization, there is always something we can do to help someone in need. I certainly enjoy my Magazine and look forward to it each month. —Ruby S. Ralphs Clifton, Idaho I was greatly impressed with the series of articles "The Constitution and the United Nations Charter" (August, September, October, and November 1951), by Elder Albert R. Bowen. I would like to have this for reference purposes. —Stanley C. Kimball Montebello, California I have just finished reading the current chapter of the continued novel 'Uncertain Possession." It is a wonderful story, so full of the things in life that are important. I would certainly enjoy reading more stories by Beatrice R. Parsons. —Mrs. David G. Shores Salt Lake City, Utah May I take this opportunity to express the joy I receive from reading our lovely Magazine.
Church reading material is limited here on Guam, so it is always a pleasure to receive the Magazine. We are looking forward to reaching Zion again in the near future. —N. Susan Pollock Guam, M. I. The Relief Society Magazine is tops in its field, and a magazine fine enough to match it would be hard to find anywhere in the world. It is worth binding and worth keeping in any good library. —Elder Louis R. Jackson Rivera, Uruguay, So. America Page 570 I am so filled with inspiration after reading the Magazine each month that I fairly fly to the task of preparing my literature lessons—if one can call such a joy and privilege a task. How clearly William Cowper made me see.
That life's handicaps need not curtail. Our talents nor prevent us from giving whatever we can to the world.. —Wanda Rhodes Logan, Utah The arrival of The Relief Society Magazine causes a pause in the routine of our home while we enjoy a treat of lovely poems. "Unquestioned Miracle" (June 1952), by Christie Lund Coles; "Creative Artist" by Ruth Chadwick (June 1951); and Alice Bailey's beautiful Mother's Day poem "Overtones" (May 1952), are a few which have impressed me greatly. I deeply appreciate the opportunity to have my work appear with that of many of the sincere writers of the Church. —Iris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah It seems as if I am welcoming a lifelong friend into my home with 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp" - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - Secretary-Tredsurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Christine H. Robinson Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Edith S. Elliott. Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Eyring Florence J: Madsen Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance Helen W. Anderson
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - 
Vol. 39 SEPTEMBER 1952 No. 9