[Literature: Sir Walter Scott by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England -Lesson 27—Sir Walter Scott (1771-1832) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, (pp. 190-199). For Tuesday, December 16, 1952
Objective: To sketch the importance of place and tradition in Scott's life and writings that his achievement may be more fully understood and enjoyed. Breathes there a man, with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said, This is my own, my native Land! ("The Lay of the Last Minstrel," Canto VI, stanza 1) Critical Estimate of Scott » In large part each man is influenced by the world in which he lives; some few men are given the power: to influence their world in return. During his maturity Sir Walter Scott achieved the status almost of a national hero. In 1813, even before he had begun writing his novels, he refused the position of Poet Laureate which was offered as recognition of his poetic excellence. In 1821 he was knighted for his literary achievement. Before his death, in 1832, he wrote thirtytwo novels, which were so overwhelmingly popular that in every 

632  A Perry Picture' Copyright 1935 SIR WALTER SCOTT 1771-1832 capital city of the western world translators fought for the first copy of his new books, so anxious were all peoples to read him. In England he was the literary lion of the day, the first of the romantic writers to achieve wide popularity, the first English author to create a landed estate and build a lavish mansion from literary profits alone, and the first to develop the technique of the historical novel until the novel was accepted as a respectable form of literature. He was ranked with Shakespeare, and even today there are eminent critics who pronounce him the greatest English novelist, and who group him with Shakespeare and Dickens as the three great English artists at depicting humanity. Yet even during his own lifetime many of the other romanticists found his mind shallow and unphilosophic, his style careless, and his plots filled with the stock devices of stolen wills and 'missing heirs and hairbreadth escapes.
Scott himself admitted the weakness of | his plots, yet he rarely planned the ending of his novel before he began writing, believing that writing by formula killed -his spontaneous flow of language in which he knew his strength lay.
Throughout his best novels which, except for Ivanhoe, dealt with the hundred years of English and Scottish history before his own time, Scott consciously avoided portraying controversial figures in religion and politics; rarely in his characters did he do any deep psychological probing. His treatment of his noble characters, particularly their dialogue, was stiff and artificial, while most of his heroes and heroines are too usual to be interesting, and the love story follows the usual pattern, without passion or individuality. The further back in history he laid the - scene of his novel, the less realistic it became.
Sometimes he completely confused events, placing them in periods when they could not have occurred, and he was also guilty of attributing to ages past the moral views, language, and customs of his own day.
Much of his uneven writing was done when the pattern of the plot or the tastes of his audience forced him to describe material with which he had no sympathy; he had no ability whatsoever to describe with warmth and reality those problems or peoples toward which he felt indifferent in his own life. How possibly can all these flaws in his work be admitted, while at LESSON DEPARTMENT the same time he is supposed to be so great a novelist? How can we know which authority to believe today, when one suggests somewhat dubiously that some of his works. May endure for adolescent readers, while another stoutly maintains he is still England's greatest novelist. In fairness we can deny neither viewpoint until we go to his work and decide for ourselves. But before examining his work, the raw materials from which his writings were drawn demand attention.
Background and Characteristics In 1745-46, only twenty-five years before Scott was born, occurred the Jacobite rebellion, the last attempt by staunch, sentimental Scotchmen to re-establish Scotland as a separate nation and free her from English tule. By Scott's time it was eviA Perry Picture Copyright 1907 SIR WALTER SCOTT'S HOME, ABBOTSFORD, SCOTLAND 633 dent that Scotland could not exist apart from England, either politically or economically, but from his earliest youth Scott seemes to have dedicated himself to keeping alive the Scottish literature and traditions which told of his beloved nation when Scotchmen were still strong and free and noble. Scott's intense love for place became the driving force throughout his life.
Only by knowing the great hearts and daring deeds of the past, Scott felt, could the traditions of the rough highlands and border country inspire Scotchmen of his own day to live nobler lives than the rather ignoble ones they were living; only by bringing alive to them Scotland's history, thought Scott, could he inspire those of rich Scot blood to rise above themselves and perpetuate this glorious tradi- 634 |  tion. It was this conviction which became the great theme of Sir Walter Scott, both in his personal life and in his writings. Scott's name meant, "the Scotchman." His clan was that of Branneuch, a wild, cattle-thieving band of ardent feudal patriots who fought to the end for Scotch rights. His father was the first of the clan to be content with the tameness of town life.
Walter recorded that his lullabies were Jacobite hymns.
Lamed by infantile paraylsis, and thus curtailed in physical activity, he read widely, but from his earliest years history and romance were his first loves.. At twelve he had begun a manuscript collection of old ballads, and throughout his youth he rode about the countryside, gossiping with the common people, absorbing thoroughly their humor, superstition, dialect, and simple manliness. As is proved by the content of his writings, Scott loved people. He was kind, generous, disarmingly hospitable, and extremely likeable, surely the most neighborly, friendly member of the romantics. We are not surprised to learn that during his leisurely afternoons at Abbotsford he played with his hunting dogs unceasingly, and when he rode after the hounds, as he frequently did, he was both reckless and fearless.
Concept of Chivalry Scott's lifelong ambition was to be a Laird, or landed aristocrat, again in loyalty to his vision of the past. 'There was something almost feudalistic in his concept of what the benevolent yet firm aristocrat should be. In both his life and works the qualities of honesty, simplicity, courage, honor, and loyalty predominate, warming both the author and his very human characters in the heart of the reader.
Scott never philosophized about © the soundness of his views, nor questioned the justifications of his enduring loyalties. The best of the past was for him the largest challenge he could hope to meet.
Indeed he lived by his own definition of chivalryas stated in his memorable novel, Ivanhoe: | Chivalry alone distinguishes the.
Noble from the base, the gentle from the churl and the savage; it rates our life far, far beneath the pitch of our honor; raises us victorious over pain, toil, and suffering, and teaches us to fear no evil but disgrace. In 1825 the great mansion of Abbotsford was aglow with festivities: Scott's fondest dream had been realized for his son was wedded 'to the niece of Scottish royalty; he had founded his line of landed aristocracy! The next year, because of a secret partnership with a publishing firm (kept secret because both the trade of printing and_ publishing novels, Scott feared, would be considered below the dignity of a public official), he not only went banktupt, but his firm owed 117,000 pounds. Though Scott had been rash and too trusting of his partners, he was not to blame for' the debt, yet in order to fulfill his own definition of noble conduct he assumed the entire debt and began working at an even more fervent tempo than before to satisfy his creditors. His wife died, and in the final six years of his life he broke his own health in the attempt to LESSON DEPARTMENT free himself from debt, but in two years he paid off some forty thousand pounds, and soon after his death his royalties cleared his honor, and further endeared him to all Englishmen and to his grieving public.: Poetry of Scott All critics of Scott tend to agree on the values of his poetry.
While it is not poetry of the first rank, and while sometimes it is marred by his inability to restrain his own exuberant statement, at its best it contains the vigorous free action of Scott's own character (as in "Lochinvar," pp. 193-194). In such pure lyrics as "Coronach" (page 1096) and "Proud Maisie" (page 198), he caught and condensed into a small area a true and sincere emotion. In such reckless, hearty lines as in "Soldier's Song" (page 197) he recalls the hearty defiance of decorum as sung by Burns. But in his own ballad form and quality, in action, scene, lyric power, and vigorous honesty these poems prove Scott to be a singer in his own right, not the greatest, but enduring.
Novels of Scott It is in his novels that we find the best of Scott, and in one of his best novels, The Heart of Midlothian, we can discover his virtues and some of his faults.
Today our imaginations are almost entirely fed by techniques of mass communication: digests of novels, articles, events, radio dramas, movies, and television.
After receiving the synthetic life story of our time in neatly packaged dehydrated capsules, it might seem unduly tedious to read a novel in its 635 entirety.
While the reading does take time, if we are to enjoy the author and his world, there is no other way. If we do take the time, we will find in the passing through the pages far more truth, and deeper, than if we read a condensed version. 'The imagination can absorb everything only so fast; reading from a page is a pace much fairer to the author and the reader. The Heart of Midlothian The Heart of Midlothian was written in 1818, the sixth of Scott's novels.
Midlothian is the Edinburgh jail. 'This novel is esteemed one of Scott's best because it is an actual world filled with his real characters; it is rich in dialogue, both of noble common folk and of the lowest ruffians.
Herein the illusion of reality is attained. In place of the slow beginning found in some of Scott's novels we have the crazed vigor of mob violence as portrayed in the Porteus riots of 1736, a protest against a haughty, cruel master of the guard who needlessly had fired into the mob of Scotchmen. The main characters are commoners rather than lords and ladies; Jeanie Deans incarnates the simplicity, strength, and courage of the ideal Scot, as she refuses to lie in court to save her sister from being hanged for a crime she did not commit, and when she walks to London to plead her case so sincerely but eloquently before the queen that Effie's life is spared. The book is filled with enduring characterizations: David Deans, her staunchly religious father who by the grandeur of Jeanie's act rises above his own dogmatic narrowness; Dumbiedikes, the 

636  wealthy neighbor; Ratcliffe, the thug turned turnkey at the jail; Madge Wildfire, an insane, pathetic product of Scotland's outlaw class; her cruel, unscrupulous mother— the list is too large to state here fully.
Structurally this novel is very weak. 'The beginning riot motif does not relate directly to the main plot, and the "happy ending events" after Jeanie's return from London are excessive in number and quite tediously drawn out.
Despite these weaknesses, The Heart of Midlothian is a self-sustaining reward for its truth, reality, wholesomeness, and the almost bewildering wealth of characters it contains.
Note to Class Leaders: The problem of presenting Sir Walter Scott, some of his poems, and one of his novels in less than an hour is insurmountable. If you wish to do only the first two, do so, and may you have the joy of a job well done. However, if you want to know, or to review Scott as a novelist, by all means get a copy of The Heart of Midlothian and read it slowly, marking passages that reveal a person in a small area, either through rich Scottish dialogue or through Scott's realistic eye. In presenting your lesson, the best approach would seem to be to tell the story in your own words in ten or fifteen minutes, no more.
Then read excerpts which illustrate the values you wish to emphasize in the novel. At least three excerpts would seem essential: Jeanie's call on Dumbiedikes for financial aid (ch. 26, pp. 272-279 at will); Jeanie's audience with Queen Caroline (ch. 37, PP. 403, 405, 409 at will); and the death of Madge Wildfire (ch. 40, pp. 431-434).
There are various approaches: read a serles of passages which portray Jeanie; use short quotes to present many characters, showing how even so brief a presentation as that of Dick Ostler (less than a page, ch. 28, pp. 300-301) successfully presents the living actuality of a character. You might wish to give a series of scenes: the riot scene; the meeting of Jeanie and Robinson near her home at night; Jeanie and Effie in the Tolbooth; Madge and Jeanie in church, the humbling of David Deans when Jeanie returns from London, etc.
Choose whichever pattern seems most easy and rewarding, so long as the series of quotes follows a plan.
Much of Scott's essence is in Scottish dialect. If you can learn to read this as if it were your own background or telephone conversations, the accent and the strange words not only will soon come easily, but the power of Scott's dialogue will be presented most effectively.
Suggestions for Discussion 1.
Discuss the weaknesses and strong points of Scott, the writer; Scott the person. 2. Why did Scott become interested in history and folk ballads even before he entered his teens? 3.
What are the enduring qualities of Scott's poetry? 4.
What are some of his excellences as a novelist? Social Swienes— Tile Progress of Man No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. we can face the future with Nursing training offers unlimited opportunities to the modern young woman, and the finest training is offered by Brigham Young University, affiliated with Latter-day Saints Hospital. For information write the Dean of Nursing.
Registration is: September 26. Brigham Young University Provo, Utah acred eNlusic for Relief Society Choruses = God is Ever Beside Me— DeRose ------------.20 = God is My Friend—Youse...20 - Hold Thou My Hand— Briggs - -..-.----------.20 _ If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments—Madsen_.20 yen Let the Mountains Shout For Joy—Stephens 15 b.- My Task—Ashford 15 = Prayer Perfect—Stenson.18 se Stranger of Galilee— Morris ----------.20 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank
DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. CJ On Approval (J) Charge L) Money Enclosed | Address 0..00000.. Cece esse eeeee._ City & Stette oon escent eeeeneeeeeeneeeeeeeeees FIRGY @F ALL — RELIABILITY aynes 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET " Mise 
New extra early favorite Red Emperor Tulip Very early, blooms in April.. This is one of the largest of all tulips grown. Its huge fiery, brilliant scarlet blooms add a real splash of color to the early spring landscape.