[Decisions and Free Agency by Marion G. Romney]

Decisions and Free Agency Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address delivered at the general assembly on Friday, June 20, 1952, at Brigham Young University Leadership Week] HEN Brother Yarn asked me to participate on this program, he suggested that I speak to the subject "Free Agency and Decisions." 'The printed program indicates that "Decisions and You" has been your week-long theme. I suppose, therefore, that it has been about exhausted, and it may be that you, yourselves, have been about exhausted by the dis- _ cussion of it. I recall hearing of a very able farm hand who was put to work in a root cellar, his assignment being to sort field run potatoes, placing the No. 1's, 2's, and 3's in separate containers.
Before the day was done he asked for his pay, say- _ ing he couldn't take it any longer. His surprised employer—for the man had all season been working 'long hours at heavy labor—sought the reason for his sudden taking off, reminding him of his enviable record as an able worker.' "Oh, I don't mind the work," he said, "it's the making of these decisions which is driving me crazy." In the hope that I shall not, on your behalf, push that drive to its final conclusion during the next few minutes, I have elected to reverse the suggested title and talk to the subject "Decisions and Free Agency."
Before doing so, however, I desire to call to your attention three familiar truths. The first one is  their that free agency is an established and enduring principle. Our political structure has been built upon the premise that men are entitled to liberty and freedom as a divine endowment.
This concept was germinating in the minds of Englishmen as early as 1215 A. D., When they wrung from King John the Magna Charta.
Sustained by their faith in and love for religious freedom, the Pilgrim Fathers were able to stand up against King James when he vowed "he would make them conform or harry them out of the land Some of them were imprisoned, all were impoverished, but they held fast to freedom and truth."
Taking temporary refuge in Holland, "they determined to (and did) perpetuate their ideals by founding a state in the American wilderness." A century and a half later, challenging the right of King George to restrict their rights as Englishmen, the Congress of the thirteen colonies wrote into the Declaration of Independence these inspired words: "We hold these truths to be selfevident: That all men are created equal; that they are endowed by Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of _ happiness." When, by the successful termination of the Revolution, the domination of the mother country had DECISIONS AND FREE AGENCY been shaken off, the.
Americans wrote these principles of freedom into the basic law of the land. You all remember, of course, the Preamble to the Constitution: "WE THE PEOPLE of the United States, in order to form a more per-.
Fect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our postcrity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America." You are all likewise acquainted with the liberties guaranteed by the first ten amendments to the Constitution, which are, to all intents and purposes, a part of the original document itself. OUR national strength has always been in our devotion to freedom. Abraham Lincoln once asked the question, "What constitutes the bulwark of our own liberty and independence?" to which he replied: It is not our frowning battlements, or bristling seacoasts, our army and navy. 'hese are not our reliance against tyranny. All of these may be turned against us without making us weaker for the struggle. Our reliance is in the love of liberty which God has planted in us. Our defense is in the spirit which prized liberty as the heritage of all men, in all lands, everywhere.
Destroy this spirit and you have planted the seeds of despotism at your own doors (Speech of Abraham Lincoln—Edwardsville, Sept. 13, 1858). We who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ not only share this heritage of political freedom, but we have a more sure knowledge in the revealed word of God that 573 free dgency is a fixed and an eternal principle. We know that it operated in the heavens before the world was. We know that it was the issue Which divided the spirit hosts and brought the war in heaven, and we know that free agency triumphed in that conflict. The second truth to which I call your attention is that the statement in the Declaration of Independence, to the effect that men are endowed by their Creator with the right of liberty, is a divine truth. The Lord said to an ancient prophet, "I gave unto them (men) their knowledge, in the day I created them; and in the Garden of Eden, gave I unto man his agency" (Moses 7:32). And to the Prophet Joseph he said, "I gave unto him (Adam) that he should be an agent unto himself" (D. & C. 29:35).
That this endowment was to all men has been revealed repeatedly. Abraham, for example, taught that the purpose of mortality was to provide men an opportunity to prove themselves worthy of eternal life.

Modern revelation confirms this truth: "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them" (Abraham 3:25).

The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that "God has given to all nations, in some degree, the light of his Spirit; and if they will walk according to that light, and seek for further light and knowledge, God will give it to them."

The gift of free agency carries with it the responsibility of choice. We are free to choose, but we are not free to alter the consequences of our choices. The scriptures make this very clear: "Choose you this day whom ye will serve" (Joshua 24:15). But they also warn: "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap" (Galatians 6:7).

In our day the Lord has revealed: "Behold, I have given unto you your agency, and blessed are they that choose me; but wo unto them that choose not me" (Moses 7:32-33).

Our eternal progress depends upon the decisions we make. Each decision either advances us toward our goal of eternal life or retards our progress. There are no neutral choices. Every decision has eternal significance.

May we realize the importance of this divine endowment and use it wisely, always remembering that we are accountable to God for our choices.