A FABLE.
Once, (so I heard) in some far land,
Two happy lovers wedded, and,
A fairy mother to them brought
A chain of gold, richly o'er wrought
With quaint designs, and legends strange,
Befitting life in every change.
Each golden strand was made of two,
Divided once yet linked anew.
She blessed the gift, bidding the pair
To take of it most sacred care.
And for awhile I scarce need tell,
That all for them in life went well.
At last, (such ills will come along)
One day, something with them went wrong;
And hastily one of them spoke
An unjust word. Instantly broke
One golden link. No mortal hand
Could mend the work from fairy land.
So ever hung before their eyes,
The broken strand, a sad suprise.
Ah! said the fairy, now I fear
There's going to be trouble here,
With patience broken, there are few
Can guess how  much there'll be to rue.
And sure enough, it was not long,
Before some other thing went wrong;
And judgment, without mercy sweet,
Like Shylock, urged his claim complete.
And 'neath the stress and burden hard,
The strand that broke, was true regard.
Though started, the wrong doer sought
No angel aid, but inly thought;
Why yield my heart to vain regret?
The strongest strands are left me yet;
Why bind the powers of my soul,
And  impulse fresh, control?
Shall I my nature free, restrain?
'Love' and 'forgiveness' yet remian,
And pure as gold, and strong as steel,
These two can bear all life can feel.
And keeping always before view
Reliance on this anchor true;
Turned here and there, and every where,
The plantom joys of life to share.
Thinner and thinner grew the strands,
Upheld oftimes by trembling hands.
The lovely emblems on them traced,
Became by careless use effaced.
But never dimly shone the gold,
And still they bore a stress untold
That heavier grew; until one day
The hand grown weakest dropped away.
And severed thus, they drifted wide,
One out upon life's restless tide;
The other silent and at peace,
Grown fairer since the soul's release;
With the safe passport to that land,
Where He, mends all life's broken strands.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CHROCHERON.
May 19th 1880.


