NO. XIII.

	Our EXPONENT comes to hand freighted with
good things, as usual, and as I glance over its
columns and learn from the pens of my sister
writers the thoughts and aspirations that occupy
their minds, my heart swells with enthusiasm,
and I long to join hands with them and say how
fully I appreciate their feelings and ideas.
	I know not if woman will be acknowledged in
a higher sphere, but I do know that she must-
work for her own enfranchisement. I do not
know if she is yet ready to hold position in polit-
ical circles, but there is a wide field before her
in which to labor for the elevation of her sex
Ignorance and folly meet us in every path of life
Woman must raise herself from the bonds of

[Column 2]
rror, and strive to enlighten her mind, that her
understanding may be enlarged and her sphere
of usefulness will grow broader and fuller. As
the wife, the mother, the friend, her influence is
felt in all circles; but before she can govern,
must she not learn the essential elements of gov-
ernment? If there be women in this world ma-
terially different from those who come under our
own observation, I cannot say. But as far as
my observation extends, I see them laboring
from a common standpoint. First, home and its
duties call their attention, and they seem
fitted to shine more pre-eminently in social than
political circles. If, to hold a higher position or
serve a higher law, woman must mingle in the
politics of the day, must soil her mind or man-
ners with the grosser elements which fill the
lower organizations of the political circles, then
I would say, God forbid. But if there be those
whom education and circumstances qualify for
holding offices, the salary of which would en-
able them to support themselves in comfort and
honor, should they be denied the position
simply because it is a government office, paid by
the revenue of the State or Territory? Such a
thing seems rank injustice. How many wo-
men support themselves by teaching? Does not
that call for intelligent labor, quite as much as
many of the offices which are in the disposition
of government? Does it not also tax a woman's
time quite as much?
	That woman is man's equal I would not affirm
and yet how many women are infinitely his su-
perior. Woman in her own attributes may excel,
and well perform the mission of her kind.
She may be a superior housekeeper, a judicious
and loving mother, an accomplished lady in all
womanly attributes; but does man ever aspire
to her position? Man is a ruling spirit, nature
qualified him, for contact with the coarser ele-
ments of life. His capacity of mind and superi-
or strength of physical organization, places him
in ranks which woman's finer nature should
never be forced to tread. I think we all under-
stand this, and few intelligent women would
wish to usurp his position.
Many, however, who are born to man's estate
are not endowed with intelligence to use it wise-
ly, and how many are unfitted by nature to fill
the place in the world allotted to them. If woman
cultivates her higher faculties, her sphere will
be enlarged and her power to do good will ex-
pand with the powers of her mind and moral
faculties. If she earns a place in literature and
is worthy to hold it, why should she not be es-
teemed according to her merit? If she is en-
dowed with a gift for art or science, let her hold
the path her strength may choose to win. It
makes her no less womanly that she is endowed
with a high order of intelligence, and men of
taste and judgment will give her all the honor
that is due. Let us then press forward and en-
large the sphere that is given us, wherein to
labor, train our children in the ways of right-
eousness and fit them for honor and esteem. If
our lives fall short of the goal we are ambitious 
to attain, let us strive to exalt them to a posi-
tion wherein they may reach a higher plane and
more exalted sphere.
	Through all the organizations of nature we
find every object formed for a distinct purpose.
Is any one less perfect of its kind because it does
not fill the mission of another?
	That man, under all circumstances, does not
hold his true position to woman is too evident.
That he holds his superior strength to oppress
and degrade her, is a wrong to which every pulse
thrills with indignation, as we reflect upon it. If
higher political rights would give her better
strength for self-protection, then we would pray
that God in his own way and time, would open
the way whereby she might obtain them. In
the meantime, let us labor for our moral and
spiritual advancement, that we may the more
perfectly acquit ourselves of the duties which
lie before us.
	It is a blessing, perhaps, that we were defeat-
ed in the object we were striving for and denied
the exercise of political rights. A too easy suc-
cess might have inflated our self-esteem, and
crowded us into positions we were unqualified to
fill.
	Our brethren need not fear that we shall wrest
the sceptre from them, for wisdom of the
Almighty prevails, and each will be ennobled in
the position he or she is called to occupy. If my
heart is filled with melody and my soul inspired
to songs, why should not my voice be heard,
even though I am not a Milton or Mendelssohn.
God in his infinite wisdom understands the jus-
tice or these things, and will bless the efforts of
those who strive in the right manner to enlarge
upon the talents which He has bestowed.
									MARY.


