HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE have several times requested our contrib-
utors to be sure and write on one side of the paper
only.  This  is  a rule  every  one  who  writes for
the press should understand and observe.

	MRS. Ann  Wheeler presented  us  with  a  fra-
grant bouquet of  wild  flowers  for  the office, for
which we tender our sincere  thanks, more espe-
cially as we have not the leisure time to ramble
over the hills to gather them, which  we should
very much like to do.

	A GREAT many  leading  suffrage women have
gathered at Chicago from all parts of the United
States  to  attend  the  presidential  convention
and urge the claims of women citizens to a voice
in the selection  of their  own  rulers.  They are
pretty sure to  do  some  good,  strong  work, as
they most certainly have the requisite executive
ability in their ranks.  We  say  success  to  the
women citizens.

	WE have been requested by Mrs.  M.  Isabella
Horne, President of the Relief  Societies  of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion, to ask the  secretaries of
all the branches  of  Relief  Society  in this Coun-
ty to furnish and forward a definite and full sta-
tistical  account  of  their respective Society for
the Sisters’ Quarterly  Conference,  to  be  held
about the 21st of this month.  Be  particular  to
state the number of  officers and members, as the
Secretary of the Stake wishes to make a full  re-
port for the Stake Conference.  Any  business
transactions should also be clearly reported.  Be
sure and send in the reports at any early date,
all directed to the care of this Office.

	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT has now entered
upon its ninth year.  We  regret  we  could  not
bring out the first number in  its new dress, but
ere long we hope it  will  make a more pleasing
appearance.  We  would  respectfully  urge  the
sisters who are interested in advancing the inte-
rests and  promoting the  welfare of the  women
of this  kingdom  to  use  their influence for the
wider circulation of the EXPONENT.  Only a few,
comparatively, take it,  whereas  it  should be in
every home  of  the  Saints  where  there  are
mothers or daughters.  It  is  really  a woman’s
paper and is in a certain  sense  the written his-
tory of Mormon  women, their life,  work and
labors.  Sisters, subscribe  for  your  own paper,
and thus help to sustain it.
	THE new silk factory, situated on  City Creek,
just this side the residence of Dr. J. R. Park, is
now nearly completed.  The building is of brick,
with a  good,  substantial  rock  foundation;  the
largest room where the machinery will be put up,
is 21 feet by 18 feet, aud has four  large  windows,
and  the  ceiling  is  10  feet  high.  The smaller
room, intended for reeling purposes, is 6 feet by
18 feet, and will accommodate two reels and two
persons at each reel. The building  is well ven-
tilated.  The machinery  is on  the  premises and
will be properly put up next week.  There is a
good water power, and the water-wheels seem to
be well built and  strong.  Around  the  factory
on the grounds, 460 mulberry  trees  have  been
put in, some of them quite a good size.  The space
will admit of 800 trees.


