THE INFLUENCE OF HOME.

	Good, bad or indifferent characters are mold-
ed at home, and polished abroad. The more
perfect the mold the more valuable the casting.
The more careful the polish the more lasting
the article. I will attempt to apply the above
figure of speech to the molding and permanency
of the human character. The cheerful family
circle, radiant with smiles, suggestive of pure
motives, appreciative of one another, are essen-
tial in framing minds that prefer to make home
the place in which to spend their leisure time.
The welcome "Good night" brother, or, "Good
night" sister, in retiring; or the "How I enjoyed
that reading," "the game you proposed," or simi-
lar sayings are intended to bind children and
parents with inseperable ties thatever find them
prefering home affection to the cold formalities
of the outer world. If there is one place more
like heaven than another, it is a bright, sun-
shiny home; where love is the ruling element,
and where each one's aim is to promote the hap-
piness of the other members of the family.

[Column 2]
Such a home never entirely fades from the mind
of any one who was reared in its purifying ele-
ments; and no matter how far they may have
strayed from its peaceful influences and as far
from its teachings, be assured in moments of re-
flection, they are carried back to those early and
happier days. If children are taught to realize
that home means happiness, (which can be done
by giving them plenty of home amusements)
they will have no desire to visit questionable
places of recreation. Home is the birthplace of
good and evil deeds. Upon the different influ-
ences around us in childhood, depends our future
career; if good, our course through life will show
it; if evil, nothing good can emanate from it. It
is not alone a home of drunkenness and vice that
exerts an evil influence over children. We can,
any of us, point to homes where the parents are
moral and industrious, but they lack the ele-
ments that constitute a good home. Parents get
angry and let their passions rule them instead of
calm reflection. A mother or father's notice
and appreciation of a child's wants and presence
should never be overlooked; for a child who is
continually crossed in his wishes can never
be amiable. Parents should refer in as few
words as possible to a child's errors, and then
show a forgiving disposition; slight reproof is far
better than an angry denunciation. For many
an erring one would have come back, like the
dove to the ark, after the first transgression, but
are cruelly driven beyond recall by harsh
words and menacing taunts; the savage charity
of an unforgiving soul. Forgiveness for sins re-
pented should be one of the rules of home. The
same offence, if possible, should never be refer-
red to. Speak volumes of praise and mild re-
proofs, and you'll find love and liking beneath
your roofs. Associations with sin are the direct
results of the want of union at home. The
parent who fails to mingle with and enjoy the
society of his children, and children that with-
hold familiarity with parents, and dread their
presence, and use deception rather than frank-
ness, are subjects of pity; and are in danger of
ruin and self-neglect; liable at any time to fan
into a flame discord and contentions that sepa-
rate the family, sending young men into dens of
iniquity, and gambling hells, and driving from
parental roofs, fair daughters to become outcasts
and women of the town.
	All our great men and women who have ob-
tained notoriety for their works, say that to
home, and most of all to their mothers, is due
the credit for the fame they have gained. Then
you, parents, are the builders of our characters,
and our lives. Parents who are too ready to lis-
ten to, and believe hearsay accusations against
their children, are the direct framers of a founda-
tion that will dissolve a united family, and scat-
ter the inmates, causing them to become associ-
ates of strangers. To such parents I would say,
believe what you know to be true, and be a con-
fiding parent, ever ready to protect your child
against slanderous talk; confide in him your fears
of wrong, with mild and affectionate words, and
if he will not then tell you all his acts, I judge
human nature wrongfully. Who should be
more confiding than parents and children? Who
should protect and defend a child against wrong
with the greatest force of determination? Cer-
tainly you will say "a parent." Yes, it should
be a parent; but how often do we find it the re-
verse. And parents who take again within the
home circle, an erring one, are the brightest
flowers met with on the pathway of life. Young
men and young women I appeal to you for aid
in inducing each other to be more frank and
confiding to your parents. If you err, confide
the fact to your best counselor; one who gave
birth to your existence; one who is ever ready
to stand by you in sickness, and soothe your
fevered brow; one who has shed and will shed
the bitter tear at your misfortune, sickness or
death. Withhold nothing that may concern
your character, and be assured you will be less
liable to deceit and equivocate before your par-
ents. Guard well against committing wrongful
acts, and your reputation will require no other
protection.					NANNIE WORLD.
	Salt Lake City, May 1st, 1880.


