THE BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	June, flowery June, the month of roses and
of bloom. The first day of this pleasant month
should be specially endeared to this people, be-
ing the anniversary of the birth of their beloved
prophet and illustrious, former leader Brigham
Young. His name will be held in honored rd-
membrance down to the latest generation, as-
sociated with the peculiar exigencies of the
Latter-day Saints in the mobbings and drivings
they have suffered. In the exodus from Nauvoo
he enacted well the part of a modern Moses,
leading this people out from bondage and op-
pression, and pioneering them into the heart of
the Great American Desert, and founding the
Territory of Utah, a remarkable country of
which the half is not yet known; and whose
future history will no doubt develop that which
will reflect greater glory upon its founders, both
men and women, than has as yet been been ac-
corded to them. They may yet be recognized,
as the London Times once called them "a na-
tion of heroes."
	The memory of this heroic man should be kept
fresh in the hearts of the children now growing
up in Zion. They should become acquainted
with his great and strong characteristics, that
were so apparent to all who knew him,even those
who did not believe in the principles he had
embraced, and to which he devoted his life, and
his energies. His determination, his untiring
zeal, his great forethought and caution, were all
brought to bear with admirable force in the life.
work in which he so eminently succeeded. He
possessed the true genius of a man born to lead,
and was therefore a fit instrument in the hands
of the Almighty to bring his people up
into the valleys of the mountains, that they
might there raise an ensign to the nations ac-
	ording to the Prophet Isaiah.
	The Saints will ever cherish his mem-
ory and teach their children to em-
ulate his greatness. President Young al-
ways had something practical to say to mo-
thers, in regard to their life and health, and the
care and training of their children. He seemed
to enter into the smallest details of every day
life and appreciate trifles as perfectly as the great-
er and more important questions with which
he had to deal. He possessed the greatest ver-
satility and adaptability of character of any man
we have ever known. He was greatly and sin-
cerely beloved by the Saints, and as strongly
hated by his enemies, or the opposers of the
work in which he was ardently and devoutly
interested and earnestly engaged. Blessed be
the memory of this great, good and wise man.
Let us all strive to follow in the path he trod,
and be as true to the principles of salvation, and
as zealous to obey them,unto death as he was.


