				HYRUM,
	Our Relief Society held their annual meeting
on the 10th of May. Our worthy Bishop, O. N.
Liljenquist and a few of our brethren met with
us. Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
After the reading of minutes the secretary read
the report of the Society since its organization,
which was accepted. President Liljenquist made
a few opening remarks. Mrs. F. Stephens re-
presented the Teachers Quorum, spoke encou-
ragingly of the teachers. Miss H. Osborn, Pre-
sident Y. L. M. I. Association reported the As-
sociation trying to improve in good works. Mrs.
L. Wilson, President Primary Association, in-
vited the mothers to attend their meetings and
to send their children. Bishop Liljenquist
Father Osborn, Father Benson, and Brothers C.
C. Shaw and H. E. Nielsen made very interest-
ing remarks, and congratulated us upon the
great amoung of good we had accomplished; gave
very good instructions and encouraged us to per-
severe in the good work we are engaged in. The
officers were then presented and sustained by
the unanimous vote of the Society. Sister C.
Johnson then presented President Liljenquist
with a beautiful set of glass ware, as a small
token of the love and respect of her sisters.
Prest. Liljenquist responded with a few suitable
words, thanking the sisters for their confidence,
and hoping she might prove worthy of their
trust.
	After singing and benediction the brethren
and sisters adjourned to the Relief Society
House, where they sat down to a bounteous re-
past, superintended by Sister C. Johnson. There
were eighty persons present, including our age
brethren, widows, missionaries wives and the
poor. We also remembered the sick, and sent
them to share to cheer and confort them. Each
one enjoyed a happy time and felt that it was
indeed a year of Jubilee.
	I will send our financial report for the twelve
years since our organization.
				M. M. NIELSEN, Secretary.


Balance sheet of Hyrum Relief Society, organ-
ized May 9th, 1868. Our total income during the
twelve years since the organization of the Relief
society is $2,348.25. Disbursements: To mis-
sionaries, $209.22; Perpetual Emigration Fund,
$139.88; sick and needy, $295.29; Temples, $558.-
85; centennial expenses, $33.68; pnblic debt,
$33.40; carpet, clock, .etc., for meeting house,
$89.25; Logan Factory, 25.00; Sabbath Schools,
$14.55; paid for Relief Society house and build-
ing granary, etc., $639.87; sundry expenses,
$106.29; to library, $40.00; total expenses, $2,173.-
28.
	Balance on hand including house and granary,
books, cash on interest $730.30; making a gain
in twelve years of $555.33. We have also 389
bushels of wheat lent out, according to counsel,
to our brethren, to be paid back after harvest.

