EARLY REMINISCENCES.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
[Continued.]
	Among the mob who  surrounded  the  breth-
ren  were  men  who  had  once  professed to be
beloved brethren.  They had  piloted the  mobs
into the city, two  of the  first Twelve Apostles
and  two  of  the  witnesses  to the  Book of Mor-
mon and many others were led by Neil Gillium,
a white man who was  painted  and styled him-
self the "Delaware  Chief."  A  portion  of the
troops  were  also  painted  like  Indians.  They
pointed  their  guns  upon  the  brethren  and
swore  they  would  blow  out  their  brains, al-
though they were disarmed and helpless.  Wil-
liam  E.  McClellen  wanted  to  know  where
Heber C. Kimball was, when some one pointed
him out as he was  sitting  on  the ground.  He
came  up  to  him  and said; "Brother Heber,
what do you think  of  Joseph  Smith the fallen
prophet now?  Has he not  led you  blindfolded
long enouth; look  and see  yourself,  poor, your
family  stripped  and  robbed and you brethren
in the same fix, are you satisfied  with Joseph?"
He  replied,  "Yes,  I  am  more satisfied  with
him, a hundred fold, than ever I was before, for
I see you in the  very  position  that he foretold
you would be in;  a Judas to  betray your  breth-
ren, if you  did  not  forsake your adultery, lying,
and abominations.  Where are you and Hinkle
and scores  of others;  have  you  not  betrayed
Joseph and his brethren  into  the hands of the
mob,  as  Judas  did  Jesus?  Yes,  verily  you
have; I tell you Mormonism is true, and  Joseph
is  a  true  prophet  of  the  living God, and you
with  all  others  who  turn  therefrom  will be
d----d and go to  h--l and Judas  will  rule over
you."
	Most of  the brethren  had been without food
for twenty-four hours, not having time  to go to
their  houses  before they were taken  prisoners,
and  when  things  began  to be a little  more
quiet my  father desired to go to his home  as
he had been without food  for many hours.  He
asked some who were standing near, if he could
have  the  privilege  of  going  to  his  house
a  little  distance  off;  they  referred  him
to their Captain- Bogart, the Methodist preach-
er, he went to him and told him what he want-
ed.  Bogart first spoke of sending some one with
him, as he would be liable to  be  shot  down  if
found alone, but in a short time said, "I will go
with you."  This happened the day after we had
stayed all night with Sister Mary  Smith.  My
mother prepared dinner  after  they  came,  and
Bogart ate and laughed and  chatted  as  though
he had been an  invited guest.  They  then  re-
turned to  where the brethren  were  still under
guard.  They were released  the  next  day,  but
could not leave the city as it was surrounded by
a strong guard.  The Saints who had fled to Far
West brought  with them  what  they  could, in
their haste.  Their stock were running loose in
the streets, and during  that  time  all  had the
privilege of killing if they were in need.  During
this  time I remember of but once eating wheat
bread.  I took the wheat and went to one of  our
neighbors who owned a large coffee mill and were
kind  enough  to let  us use it, and it took  me a
good portion of the day  to grind sufficient  for a
short cake.  My mother made it for supper  and
my father often spoke of  it  afterward  as  being
the best cake he ever ate. It contained bran and
all.  We had  an abundance of  milk and  honey
and hulled corn, and  were blessed  with  health
and  excellent appetites, with  the exception  of
my  mother,  whose  health  was delicate.  The
evening after  the  brethren were released, my
oldest brother was sent a short  distance  on  an
errand, and before he returned, a guard had been
set near our house.  At my  brother's  approach
the guard drew his rifle and  threatened  to blow
out his brains, if he stepped one inch further to-
wards the house.  Through the agency  of some
friend; father was notified of it.  He went to the
man and spoke to him in a friendly manner and
conversed with him about the beautiful country,
so much  more  so  than  England,  or  any  of
the countries or nations he  had  been  travel-
ing in.  The guard  became  very  much  in-
terested  when  father  pointed  out  his
son telling him that was his boy, and he said,
"If that is your son he may pass, he may go
home."  That  evening  he  left  his  post  and
spent the whole evening at our house, and came
a number of  times afterward  and  tried  to per-
suade  my  parents  to  leave  the "cursed  Mor-
mons," told them they were too good  to  follow
such a d----d set, etc.  William McClellen also
came and  spent an evening, and seemed to feel
a lingering  regard  for  father, notwithstanding
he had given him  so  sharp  a rebuke he  plead
with him to leave the  deluded  Mormons.  We
had not  been  in  Far West  over  three  weeks
when  the  mobbing  commenced, and  in  the
bleak month of February we started in company
with Brigham  Young  and  family  and  several
others who left  on the 14th.
	My father remaining behind  to  help the poor
Saints in getting away, as  well as  to  assist the
Prophet and his brethren in making their escape
from prison.  He being  almost a stranger there
could stay with less danger  than Bro. Brigham,
who was obliged to keep  himself  disguised, and
he was seen but little with us in the  day  time.
We suffered considerably from cold at  the start,
as  the  people  for  some  distance  around  Far
West were very  bitterly  opposed to  the "Mor-
mons."  The day  we started  the  weather was
terrible, and my mother and Sister Young, with
their children, stopped at a house and asked the
privelege of  warming  themselves.  There were
no  men, only  women there, but  they  began
talking about the horrible "Mormons" and eyed
us very closely.  Sister Young  and my  mother
appeared to believe all they said, and looked hor-
rified and  we  children  imitated  them.  We
found some  who  were  more  humane and we
were allowed the privilege of  staying  all night,
at other times we were  obliged  to content  our-
selves with a  fire  by  the  roadside.  Our  bed-
room was one little wagon, which  contained all
we had left.  One day in particular I remember
was so cold  we  were obliged  to  walk  to  keep
from freezing.  My  oldest  brother, who drove
our  cow,  had  gone  ahead,  and  becoming
very  sleepy  in  consequence  of  the  cold,
got  off  from  his  horse,  and  putting  the
bridle over his arm laid down to sleep. Dr. Levi
Richards, who was  traveling  with  us, and had
also gone ahead of the  wagons, soon  overtook
him, and by hard shaking and a few well mean-
ing blows, which  made  him  angry  enough to
fight, started the blood to  circulating and saved
his life.  We soon after arrived at Bishop Vin-
cent Knight's house, where  his feet were found
to be badly frozen.  We  remained  there  until
the next morning.  The Lord was with us, and
although  we  never heard  from  my  father for
nearly  three  months, yet  we found friends as
the Lord told him that we should.  We crossed
the  Mississippi  to  the  town  of  Atlas.  There
through  the instrumentality of  Bro.  George
Pitkin, my  mother  was introduced to a  widow
by  the  name  of  Ross, who let her have a nice
room and the privilege of cooking in her kitchen,
and was as kind to her as an own mother or sis-
ter.  She seemed  greatly  interested in her his-
tory, and  wanted  to  introduce her to her most
intimate friends.  A very sweet lady, a relative
of hers, who was also a widow, manifested much
sympathy and invited us to  her beautiful  home
where we were treated  with the greatest polite-
ness.  They appeared to look upon my mother as
one who had known better days. Bro. Brigham
rented a  vacant storehouse for his family a few
rods from us. We tarried there seven weeks and
only had to pay fifty cents a week.  At the end
of that time  John P.  Greene  came  and moved
us up to Quincy and rented a comfortable room.
My father in his journal says: "My family having
been  gone  about  two  months,  during  which
time I heard nothing from them.  Our brethren
being in prison, death and destruction following
us wherever we went, I felt very  sorrowful and
lonely.  The following words came to me, and
the  spirit  said  unto  me  write, which I did by
taking a piece of paper and writing on  my knee
as  follows: Far  West, April 6,  1839.  A word
from the Spirit  of  the  Lord  to my servant He-
ber C. Kimball.  Verily, I say unto my servant
Heber: Thou  art  my  son, in whom I am well
pleased;  for  thou  art  careful  to hearken to my
words and  not  transgress  my  law, nor rebel
against my servant Joseph, for  thou hast a re-
spect to the words of mine anointed, even from
the least to the greatest  of  them;  therefore thy
name is written in Heaven  no  more to be blot-
ted out forever because of  these things;  and my
spirit and blessing shall rest down upon thy pos-
terity forever and forever, for they shall be called
after thy name, for thou shalt  have many more
sons  and  daughters,  for  thy  seed shall be
numerous as the sands upon the sea shore, there-
fore my servant Heber, be  faithful, go forth  in
my name, and I will  go  with  you,  and  be  on
your right hand and on your left, and my angels
shall go before you and raise you up when  you
are cast down and afflicted; remember that I am
always with you, even to  the end, therefore be
of good cheer, my son, and my spirit shall be  in
your heart to teach you the peaceable things  of
the kingdom; trouble not thyself about  thy fam-
ily, for they are in my hands;  I  will  feed  them
and clothe them and make  unto  them  friends.
They  never  shall want for  food  nor raiment,
houses nor lands, fathers  nor  mothers, brothers
nor sisters, and peace shall rest upon  them  for-
ever, if thou  wilt be faithful  and  go  forth  and
preach my gospel to the nations of  the earth, for
thou shalt  be  blessed  in  this  thing,  and  thy
tongue shall be unloosed to such  a  degree  that
has not entered into they heart as yet, and the
children of  men  shall  believe thy words, and
flock to the water for baptism  even as they did
to my servant John; for thou  shalt  be great in
winning souls to me, for this is thy gift and call-
ing, and there shall be no gift  withheld  from
thee, if thou art faithful, therfore be  faithful
and  I will  give thee favor  in the eyes  of  the
people: be humble and kind and you shall obtain
kindness; be merciful, and you shall obtain mercy,
and I will  be  with  you  even  unto the end.
Amen."
	My father found us at Quincy, Ills., well and
in good spirits, on the 2nd day of May, 1839. He
says: "In reading the words of inspiration  which
I had written, my wife bore record  to  the  truth
of that part which says 'trouble not thyself about
thy family," etc.  She had had no lack of friends
and had every comfort bestowed  upon  her  that
she could have had among her own kindred, and
I say in my heart that God  bless  them  all, and my
brother Brigham for his great kindness in assist-
ing them into Illinois.  God bless all who aided
and assisted my family; for Jesus says every man
shall be rewarded  for every  good  deed  that  he
doeth.  In  relation  to  that  part which  said I
should have many sons and  daughters, my wife
rather doubted that, as she  considered she  was
too far advanced in years, and the  thought  had
never entered her mind, or mine, that the Lord
would establish  in  this  Church the doctrine  of
plurality of wives in our day, still I  believed  it
would be restored to  the  earth at  some future 
time."


