CHARITY FOR  THE FALLEN
	"Neither do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more."

	How forcibly do these simple  words of Jesus
portray his charity for a fallen woman; but how
different the charity of  men and women profes-
sing the same religion ! When  a woman falls a
victim to man’s evil persuasions, it is the custom
among all Christian people to look upon her as a
thing beneath their  notice,  except it be  to point
the finger of scorn at  and  call  vile names; and
yet, if we possessed one spark  of  the  charity of
Jesus, the worst accusation  that  we would  feel
justified  in making is, that  she was very weak:;
and in many  instances, could  we  know all the
circumstances and  realize  the  power of' the
tempter, and the arts and devices used to deceive
and lead astray, and how long and cunningly the
betrayer has  pursued  his  victim,  our censure
might be  turned  to admiration  for the strength
that resisted so  long.  But we only see  the fall;
God alone sees the conflict, and  He only is com-
petent to judge;  He  alone  knows how  to draw
the line between wilful sin and  the  temptations
too strong for our resistance.  Were  we permit-
ted to read  one chapter  in  the  pre-natal  exist-
ence of many  persons,  and  know  the  traits of
character bequeathed  to them  by their parents;
how they were endowed  with  propensities that
were so  indelibly  stamped  into their existence
were so  indelibly  stamped  into  their existence
that they cannot  be  eradicated by any teaching
and influence in after years, together with weak-
ness  and  indecision  that were never  taught to
bow  in submission  to  principle, we would pity
the poor helpless  creatures  thus  born  with  no
armor of  protection, for they are destined to be-
come an easy prey to the flattery and temptation
of unprincipled men.
    Parents, if you  have an  erring daughter, that
you would  turn  from  the  protection  of  your
home and love, look back to the time before that
child was  cast  upon  the  great  sea  of  human
trial, and see if  a  remembrance of your former,
selves cannot arouse  within you feelings of char-
ity and pity for one you sent into the world to
battle with its temptations, with no  shield, and
then, perhaps you maybe able to say, “Neither
do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more.”
   I know that such arguments and such charity
as I would urge in behalf  of a  sister who has
stepped from the pleasant path  of  virtue would
be met by many with  the  taunting  reply that
“you are as bad as she, or you would not have so
much charity.” Yet, who would think of cast-
-ing reproaches upon  the purity of Jesus  because
of his charity?  The virtuous may abhor sin, yet
pity  the  sinner;  and it  is  their  love  of  virtue
that would prompt them  to reclaim  with kind-
ness those who have forsaken its path.  I might
plead the same excuse for men  that I have for
women, did they  not already  claim  too much
sympathy  from  society;  but  I plead for helpless
women, who are sinned  against so much more
than they sin.  Society supports and smiles upon
man  while he injures  woman,  who can  claim
no redress,  no sympathy from  the  same source
that shields  him.  The wickedness of a man
who pursues a woman to her ruin is only wink-
ed at by society, while  the woman  may plead
for mercy,—may wash  out  her  sin  by  night
with  bitter tears of repentance,  and walk the
earth by day beneath the crushing sense of shame
and humiliation;  but that  will  avail nothing.
Society  does not speak the words of Jesus; it
only turns reproachfully  and  says, “You have
sinned once, that is sufficient; there  is  no help
for you now, no hope, only to go down to deeper
degradation  and  eternal  misery.  But who is
much to blame for this state of things?  Woman
herself.  Woman, Remember that you are a part
of that society that would scorn  you should you
fall.  Be not you the one to crush  your fallen
sister; do not draw  your  untarnished  garments
around you with such an air  of  superiority,  but
ever think,“You might have fallen as low as she,
had you been tempted equally." And you may yet.
see the time when you can say, “She has  but
stumbled iu the path that I in weakness trod.”
No human being can be frozen  back to a life of
virtue more effectively than  they can  be  drawn
back by kindness and  true charity.  Few hearts
are so innately bad that they cannot be reformed
by the power of love.	OLIVE BRANCH.


[Column 1]
