A MOTHER’S REFLECTIONS. 
				   _______
    I have never written any before for our much
respected  EXPONENT, I say  our  EXPONENT be-
cause I feel much interested  in  that paper  and
in the great work that is  being  brought  about
in these last days.  As a mother in Israel I feel
to add my mite with my sisters.  I often wonder
to myself  if  we  mothers  realize  the  great  re-
sponsibility that rests  upon  our  shoulders  in
rearing our children  in a  right  and acceptable
manner before  the  Lord,  and  teaching them
correct principles, both by precept and example,
and in being very careful that  the  example we
set before them at home and with our neighbors
is in strict accordance  with  our  teachings, for
children  even when very small will notice very
particularly the actions of their parents and if
they see any traits  of  dishonesty  in  their par-
ents in any way they seem to take up  with that
at the first glance, ofton-while young, but some-
times when they grow older they see the wrong
and turn away, from  such  a  course.  What an
awful censure  it  would  produce  in  our  own
breast to have our son  condemned  to  death by
law, or imprisoned for life, to have him state, as
some have done, that their mother had screened
and protected  them  in  many,  you  might say
small  wrongs,  when  very  young,  and  they
would  go into their neighbor’s orchard or melon
patch.  If their father did  not  allow  such  con-
duct, and  he  was  informed  of it, the mother
would say “I do not want my  children  to steal,
but I cannot blame the boys if they  do take his
fruit for he has plenty  of  it  and  will  not give
them any of it;” or if they should find anything
and know whom the owner  was, if the mother
would  lay it away  and  never  make  the child
take it to the owner, and never  let  the  father
know anything about it, which is very wrong in-
deed, and one wrong leads  to  another, and get-
ting out of  one  wicked deed, very  easy,  gives
children more confidence  that they can get out
of another still a little larger  until  finally, per-
haps they come to the gallows or some bad end,
and then blame  their  too indulgent  mother or
father. But there are two extremes  in raising
children; while some  parents are  too indulgent
others are very stern and  severe beyond reason,
and seem to forget that they were once children
themselves; and  as  Paul  said  when he was a
child he acted as a child, but when  he became
a man he put away  childish things.We have
to look over  a  good  many  of  their  innocent,
childish ways, but we  cannot  be too particular
in watching over them and teaching them not to
act wickedly  in  anything.  There is great re-
sponsibility resting upon the mothers as well as
the fathers.  My dear sisters, as we were placed
here upon  this  earth  to  become  helpmeets to
our husbands  we  should  stand  by their side
and battle for right,  and  never allow ourselves
under any  circumstances  to  speak  one  word
against any principle that the Lord has revealed
through his prophets for his people to be govern-
ed by in  these  last  days.  Our  settlement  is
small, but we have good  meetings  here  in our
Relief Society, and a good  peaceable spirit pre-
valls among the  sisters,  and  we  are  trying to
carry out the counsel of those  whose  duty it is
to counsel, as fast as we can, which may we ever
continue to do. 		CYNTHIA ANN JOLLEY
	Mt. Carmel, May 2, 1830.


