	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS

	The Payson Relief Society held their twelfth
annual meeting May 29th, 1880. President Mar-
garet T. Smoot was present, and her Counselor
Mrs. Mary Johns, also visitors from Spanish
Fork, Salem, Santaquin, Spring Lake and Ben-
jamin.
	After the usual exercises, C. D. Evans, Bishop
of Salem, Elders H. W. Barnett, I. M. Coombs,
addressed the sisters, cheering and comforting
their hearts in their labor of love, feeling that
they are a great blessing to the Ward.
	The Young Ladies of the M. I. Association
being present, much good an dpractical instruc-
tion was given to them, showing how great was
their mission on this earth; that they should
strive to live so as to have power from on high to
teach and nurture the noble spirits that are
coming forth, heirs to the kingdom and destined
to be mighty in rolling forth this great work of
the latter days.
	President M. T. Smoot was pleased with the
remarks of the brethren and wished she had the
same ability as the brethren that preceded her;
was pleased with the remarks of Brother Coombs
respecting the silk, for that was part of the Gos-
pel and the will of the Lord to us. We have
everything to encourage us. Prayed that the
Spirit of the Lord might rest upon the sisters.
Counselor M. Johns endorsed all that had been
said, and that it should be our aim to press for-
ward with all the ability we have. Many of us
do not realize the day in which we live.
	President Jane Simons felt thankful for the
remarks that had been made. There were pres-
ent Presidents from several Relief Societies in
the surrounding settlements, also brethren that
she would like to hear from, but time would not
permit.
	After singing, prayer was offered by Elder
Barry Wride.
	Over 200 children then convened in the meet-
ing-house, looking bright and happy. After va-
rious exercises, such as recitations, reading of the
papers, etc., which were very creditable, they
were very agreeably surprised in partaking of a
picnic prepared for the occasion by the Presiding
Teachers of the districts. The little folks felt
proud of belonging to the Primary Association.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor with us
