PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Annual Report of the Primary Association of
East Bountiful, organized one year ago to-day,
the 19th of April, 1879, with 182 members, in-
creased to 224 during the year. Meetings held
weekly on Saturday afternoons. Average, 48
meetings during the year; average attendance,
125. Cards of merit have been distributed twice
during the year. The exercises of the meet-
ings have been similar to the following: After
the usual opening exercises, remarks are gener-
ally made by our President and Counselors;
then recitations, singing and essays from the
children, and a number of children bear their
testimony; questions asked the children by our
President. They have also learned the ten com-
mandments, a prayer and some poetry; had
reading from the Bible, Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants, and other select works;
have also taught them some of the first princi-
ples of the gospel.
	Have received from the children on their five-
cent donation the sum of $9.85. We have also
had two concerts and one party; proceeds,$33.90;
full amount of proceeds, $43.75. Paid out for
presents for the children and sundry articles for
the Association the sum of $36.10, and $7.65 left
in the treasury.

Donated to the Relief Society, three bushels
	of wheat, 75 cents per bushel, $2.25
And two bed quilts for the Temple, $4.25
	each,	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 8.50
	Officers of Organization:—President, Mrs.
Ann Dustin; Counselors, Mrs. Mary Evans and
Mrs. Sarah Easthope; Secretary, Miss Olive C.
Sessions; Asst. Secretary, Miss Hannah Call;
Treasurer, Miss Lucina Sessions.

	On the 25th of October last Sister E. R. Snow
visited Morgan and organized the Primary As-
sociation of South Morgan Ward, with your cor-
respondent as president and Ann Fry and
Jeanette Hogg as counselors; 67 names were
enrolled and our first meeting held November
1st, from that time to May 8th we have held 22
meetings, we have now 81 members, and during
this time the members have paid in dona-
tions to the Temple the sum of $10.15 and have
$1.65 on hand. On the 21st of this month we
had an entertainment, forty children taking
part therein which consisted of recitations,
songs, dialogues and speeches, and to help pass
the evening in enjoyment Captain Daniel Bull,
with the brass band, was in attendance, dis-
coursing sweet music whenever called upon.
