		PAROWAN STAKE.

	The Parowan Stake Relief Society held their
Second Quarterly Conference on the 16th of May,
1880, in the Cedar City meeting house, com-
mencing at 10 a. m.  Present on the stand
officers of the Stake and branch presidents of
Parowan, Cedar City, Paragoonah and Summit
branches, also Presidents of the Young Ladies
and Primary Associations, Prest. Henry Lunt,
Bishop C. J. Arthur, and others of the priest-
hood. The hall was filled to overflowing with
brethren and sisters. After the usual exercises
the morning was occupied by the presidents
giving in verbal reports of the different Societies
and Associations over which they presided,
showing that much good was being done and
improvement made. Sister Jane P. Mackel-
prang was voted in as corresponding secretary.
Brothers Wm. Mitchell, Lars Mortensen and
Wm. Holyoak spoke very spiritedly in the inter-
est of our religion and admonished all the gain for
themselves an assurance of the truth of the
work. Thought nothing could assist the breth-
ren more than the influence of a good wife;
encouraged the sisters to continue in
well doing and the Lord would bless them.
Prest. Ellen Lunt made a few remarks, desiring
the sisters to spend their time in doing good.
	In the afternoon, after opening exercises, sac-
rament was administered,and the time occupied
by several of the sisters speaking on the princi-
ples of our holy religion—polygamy, Word of
Wisdom, home industries, etc., all expressing a 
desire to do all the good they could, that they
might have a claim to the reward in store for
the faithful. Pres. Ellen Lunt said the time had
been well spent and that she would bear testi-
monty that much good had been done and a
marked improvement made by the sisters since
the first organization of a society in Cedar City,
which took place in November, 1856, and was
called the Female Benevolent Society, with 95
members, of whom there were only 14 now re-
maining in this place. A few years afterward
the President, Sister Lydia Hopkins, departed
this life. The meetings were discontinued, and
in June, 1868, the Relief Society was organized
with 56 members. A great many others have
been added since, who have done a great
amount of good. President Lunt advised the
young sisters to make the best use of their time,
not to spend it foolishly, so that in future years
when they were called hence they would have
nothing to regret. Bore her testimony to the
truth of plural marriage. Referred to this as
being the year of jubilee and counseled the sis-
ters to assist and relieve each other, as well as
the poor, thus making it a continual jubilee.
	Bishop C. J. Arthur made some pleasing and
good remarks; said that it was a source of great
pleasure to see the sisters stand forth in defence
of the principles of their religion.
	President Henry Lunt reviewed the meetings
of the day with much pleasure and spoke in an
interesting manner of the beauty and wisdom of
God as shown through his servants in the dif-
ferent organizations in the Church of Christ on
the earth.

[Column 3]
	Conference adjourned till Saturday, the 14th
of August next, to be held in Paragoonah, Iron
County.
	The congregation stood upon their feet, and
with the choir, sang the Doxology, "Praise God
from whom all blessings flow." Benediction was
pronounced by our Patriarch and President,
Henry Lunt who dismissed all with his bless-
ing; after which, the young men of the brass
band struch up a lively air, while the brethren
and sisters from the surroundings settlements
started on their homeward journey and the rest
to their several homes.
		ELLEN W. LUNT, President,
		JANE P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
	Cedar City, May 20th, 1880

	A Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete County was held at Ephraim, May
17, 1880. It should have been an annual confer-
ence but on account of secretaries failing to for-
ward their reports in time, and some not at all,
a condensed report for the year could not be
made until next conference.
	Conference was opened by singing, prayer and
singing. Reports of R. S., P. A. and Y. L. M. I.
A. were read. The several societies were also
verbally reported as being in a good ondition.
President E. R. Snow and Counselors were
unanimously sustained in their places.
	Many excellent instructions were given by the
sisters who spoke. The surrent of their remarks
were on the signs of the times, how in this day
cyclones, accidents and crimes are raging
among the nations,and especiallly in our nation,
and more especially where our people have been
mobbed and drien, our prophets martyred, and
the Saints exiled from their midst, an dnow
they are reaping their reward, and the fulfill-
ment of the prophecies of ancient and modern
prpohets. Much was said of the rich feast and
appropriate and truly heavenly instructions
given by the three apostles, Wilford Woodruff,
Erastus Snow, and Brigham Young, also others
who addressed the late conference.
	Pres. Mary Ann Hyde urged all to prepare
and sanctify themselves for the events in the
future which are awaiting the righteous. She,
and her counselors, are stiving with energy to
magnify their calling by traveling through the
Stake, encouraging the sisters to diligence and
faithfulness in the cause for which they are
working.
	Brother Wareham made a few remarks, blessing
and encouraging the sisters. Singing, benedic-
tion. Conference adjourned until August 17,
1880.
