				ST. GEORGE, May 15, 1880.

Dear Editor:

	As it was decided some time ago to only send
an annual report of our Stake Conference, our 
much respected President, Minerva Snow,
thought it would be well to address you a few
lines, if only to let you know that we are still
interested in all that pertains to the welfare of
Zion, and are endeavoring to work to that end.
	The Relief Societies are (as far as we are post-
ed) in a healthy and prosperous condition. We
meet every two weeks to make quilts, sew car-
pet rags, knit socks or anything that is needed,
and on the first Thursday of every month we
have a joint meeting, which is really the most in-
teresting, as the time is devoted to speaking, and 
many who go, feel well repaid for the time spent
and realize that they have had a spiritual feast,
and that the Lord blesses his daughters as well
as his sons, with his Spirit when they rely on him.
There are many good sisters who would like to
attend, but are detained at home by domestic
duties and the care of little ones, but these are
not forgotten.
	Our last meeting was devoted to the subject
of silk culture. President McAllister was pre-

[Column 2]
sent, and gave some good advice; also Bishop D.
H. Cannon. He advised the sisters to take care
of what worms they had, but not to increase
them until more mulberry trees could be plant-
ed, so as to have plenty to feed them on; said he
would donate towards buying a lot and assist in
planting trees.	*	*	*
	We had hoped ere this to have had the plea-
sure and benefit of a visit from Sister E. R.
Snow and other sisters who accompany her, but
we will have patience and hope on, and as the
railroad is coming nearer, it will not be such an
arduous journey or take as much time.
	We have had quite severe weather the pastwinter for this country, and considerable sick-
ness, but at present the general health is good
and the weather delightful, except when the
wind blows. We are in hopes the summer will
not be as sultry as the last on account of there
being large quantities of snow in the mountains.
There is one thing we have superior to what you
have in Salt Lake City, and that is the singing
of the birds. We have the mocking bird and
wild canary, with many others, who give us a
morning serenade, and they have their liberty,
which seems much better than to shut them up
in cages.
	Lest I weary you with too lengthy a commu-
nication, I will close, with kind regards,
			Believe Me Your Sister,
					E. BENTLEY, Cor. Sec.

		BRIGHAM CITY, Apache County,
					Arizona, May 2d, 1880.
Mrs, E.B. Wells:
	Dear Sister.—Your interesting and valuable
paper comes duly by course of mail and is a great
source of comfort and consolation to us, situated
as we are in this far-off and rather isolated coun-
try. We are thankful for good mail facilities
which bring at an early date the proceedings and
moves that are made by our brethren and sisters
in the north.
	It is a great source of comfort and rejoicing to
know of the generous moves that have been
made at this Conference in behalf of the "Lord's
poor," "for the poor ye have always with you,"
as if to say there would always be an opportuni-
ty for the rich, or more fortunate ones to bestow
of their substance for charitable purposes. I feel
that the Saints are being blest, and will be ac-
cording to their diligence in keeping all of the
commandments, but when it says in breaking
one ye break all, we sometimes think the Lord is
too strict; and our authorities wish to bind us
and take away our freedom. We are free to act,
we have our agency there is no compulsion, but
God is and will be just and merciful, and while
we are presuming on his mercy, let us be careful
not to arouse the indignation of an offended
Father, Friend and Benefactor who has called
us all the day long and entreated us to hearken.
The Word of Wisdom, President Young said,
was a commandment. Do we heed his words?
Can we trample with impunity upon them?
Shall we not lack oil in our vessels if we do not
observe this law of heaven in connection with
others. We as a people have commenced a new
era and proclaimed a jubilee, let us try with re-
newed diligence to emancipate ourselves from
the errors into which some of us have incau-
tiously fallen. We have a Relief Society here,
a Young Men's and Young Ladies' Association;
hold weekly meetings—have conjoint monthly
meetings. The Wreath is issued semi-monthly,
edited by the young ladies.
	With many prayers for your success; we de-
sire an interest in your prayers that we may be
numbered among the faithful in Zion.
			Yours with respect,
