WOMAN AMONGST THE NEPHITES.

	It is somewhat noticable how little promi-
nence is given to womankind in the historical
narrative of the Book of Mormon, and unfortu-
nately when mention is made of her it too fre-
quently grows out of man's sins and her misfor-
tunes. Of all the descendants of Lehi and Sariah,
but two women are mentioned by name; one,
Abesh, a converted waiting woman to a queen of
the Lamanites; the other, Isabel, a harlot of the
land of Siron, whose meritricious charms seduc-
ed Coreanton, the son of Alma, from the work
of the ministry among the Zoramites.
	Although we have but few individual charac-
ters standing out in relief from the historical
background, yet from many incidental referen-
ces as the story of the Nephites is told, we are
led to the conclusion that women amongst that
people enjoyed a much greater degree of liberty,
and wielded a more powerful influence than they
did amongst contemporary Gentile nations on
the eastern hemisphere—say in Babylon, Persia,
or Greece. We deem this mainly attributable
to two causes, first, the Israelitish origin of the
race; and again, the power and grace with which
the principles of the gospel were preached by a
long succession of prophets, who almost unin-
terruptedly ministered to the seed of Nephi.
That this latter cause had much to do with
woman's pleasing condition amongst that peo-
ple is evident, for we find from the historical
narative that whenever they turned from the
Lord it was then that tribulation and oppression
came upon their wives and daughters, and they
suffered from the iniquities of their husbands
and the savage fury of their enemies. With re-
gard to the first named cause it is generally ad-
mitted that the Hebrew women of antiquity en-
joyed greater liberty and possessed more privi-
leges than did those of the surrounding nations
of the same epoch. Let the Bible and the his-
tory of contemporary nations be compared and
the difference is evident.
	The Nephites lived in a dispensation varying
considerably from that of the Latter-days. They
observed the law of Moses, to which was added
the higher code of the Gospel. Our readers know
how well both these protect the rights of wo-
man, and how sacredly they guard the marriage
covenant; infidelity to that sacred bond of
union being regarded, whether in the man or
the woman, as a most heinous offence, and wor-
thy of the severest penalties.
	At the commencement of the Nephite nation-
al life, when they were few in numbers, they
seem for a time to have been tinctured with
some of the social vices of the now degenerate
people from whom the Lord had separated
them. They committed great immoralities and
took wives for utterly unworthy purposes with-
out the fear of the Lord before their eyes; and
after they had taken them, they frequently
abused or neglected them, until their suffering
cries came up before the Eternal Ones, and Hea-
ven forbade any man among them from taking
more than one wife, but adding this proviso, "For
if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise up seed
unto me, I will command my people; otherwise
they shall hearken to these things." This in-
junction, we are of the opinion, was afterwards
removed, and the foreshadowed command given,
as it is evident from the later history of the Ne-
phites, that in a better era of their national life,
polygamy was sanctioned by the law and prac-
ticed amongst them, and that, indeed, by the
men most favored of God. As an example, we
will cite the Prophet Amulek, the devoted


friend and zealous fellow laborer of the younger
Alma; the only man in all the vast city of Am-
monihah, to whom an angel was sent, and in
whose behalf mighty miracles were wrought.
He expressly mentions his women, and as he
places them next to himself and before his chil-
dren, his father and all his other kinsfolks and
kindred, and nowhere uses the word wife or
wives, it is evident that his wives were meant
and not serving women. No one, surely, would
argue that he would give such the place of
honor in his address to his fellow citizens, before
his parents and his children. As another in-
stance, the great number of Chief Judge Pa-
horan's sons is incidentally mentioned.
	It was during the brighter days of the rule
of the Judges, that woman of any time before
the appearance of the Messiah on this continent
seems to have been most highly regarded and
esteemed. The Nephites were then living un-
der that excellent code of laws drawn up by the
inspired King Mosiah, which bear evidence of
having been most admirably adapted to a peo-
ple worthy of a large amount of liberty. This
age was adorned with the presence of such
men as Alma, Moroni (the Prophet-General of
the Nephite armies), Ammon and the other
sons of King Mosiah, Heleman, Amulek and
others conspicuous for their devotion to the
laws of God and the rights and liberties of the
people. General Moroni, than whom a more
devoted man to the cause of truth and human-
ity never lived, is especially conspicuous in his
untiring efforts for the safety and happiness of
the wives and little ones of his people. On the
standard to which he rallied the patriot warriors
of the Republic, which he named "The Title of
Liberty," he inscribed, "In memory of our God,our
religion and freedom, and our peace, our wives
and our children." This seems to have been
his watchword throughout the long and san-
guinary succeeding campaigns, in which he de-
fended the Nephites from the savage onslaughts
of their Lamanitish foes. Again and again we
find him rallying the hosts of Nephi with this
soul stirring cry, and under the ardor it wrought
in their hearts, carrying triumph to their ban-
ners and freedom to their land. One series of
events that occurred during this long war
which sheds a most pleasing light upon the
inner life of the faithful among the Nephites is
found in the story of Heleman and his two
thousand striplings, who though very young,
were so full of the spirit of faith implanted in
their hearts by the wise counsels of their loving
and God-fearing mothers, that in the might of
Jehovah they went forth against the enemies of
their adopted country (for they were Lamanites
by birth) and no power could withstand them.
Their mother's teachings and their mothers'
proyers were weapons of destruction to
their foes and shields of defence to
themselves. They went forth conquering and
to conquer, and the All-seeing One only knows
how much the teachings of those saintly women
effected towards the preservation of the Nephite
commonwealth from imminent destruction.
	And what shall we say of the condition of wo-
man in that blessed Sabbatic era succeeding the
glorious appearing of the Redeemer on this
western land, when for two hundred years
this continent enjoyed undisturbed and
heavenly peace; when all men devoutly wor-
shipped the Lord and dealt justly with their
fellow's—man or woman. It was an age in
which no woman was wronged, no deserted
children pined in the streets, no abused wives
mourned in secret, or lifted their sorrowing
hearts in anguish to the Great Father of man-
kind; no brazen courtesans flaunted on the broad
highways, or ruined maidens hid their sorrow
and shame wherever seclusion was the most
profound. The inspired historian tells us that if
ever there were a happy people on this earth,
here they were found, and most happy must
have been the gentler ones, who bear in the
stubborn battle of life so large a share of its sor-
rows-and misfortunes.
	But this golden age was soon followed by its
opposite, when every virtue seems to have been
supplanted by a vice, and all good was turned
to evil. At almost lightning speed, the people
having once taken the downward track, the
nation rushed to ruin, until this continent
beftame one vast field of carnage, rapine, and
misery over which devils gloated and hell
enlarged herself. Indeed, the whole land
seemed peopled with a race of demons who
perpetrated cruelties that could alone be con-
ceived in the hearts of the damned. During
these lengthened years of untold horror the fair
daughters of the land suffered unspeakable bar-
barities. Life, virtue, everything was the play-
thing of the victor, be he Nephite or Lamanite,
until in the hate of revenge and the fury of de-
spair they joined their national leaders on the bat-
tle field,and with their husband, sons and broth-
ers, dyed their hands red in the blood of the foe.
Nor did they arm themselves alone, but with
feelings turned to those of monsters, they put
weapons into the hands of their children and in-
flamed their young minds with the savage love
of slaughter. The war was not one for suprema-
cy alone; it was for national and individual ex-
istence, and midst a sea of carnage,unparalleled
on any land save ours, the Nephite nation was
swept out of existence, leaving scarce a trace be-
hind, a most terrible instance of divine mercy
scorned and divine laws abused. 			G.


