							ANN TATE.

	Departed this life on the 3d  inst., in Beaver,
our beloved sister Jane Neyman, after a severe
illnes of three weeks, caused by a paralytic stroke
on the left side, aggravate by a fall in attempt-
ing to rise from her bed, which bruised her and 
caused  great  soreness.  Deceased  was  born in
Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, September
21st, 1792.  She  embraced  the  gospel  in  1838;
came to Nauvoo  in  the  year  1840,  where  she
buried  her  companion,  a  good,  faithful man,
true to his family and his religion.  She married
the second time a brother, Fisher, attended him
faithfully through  a  lingering  illness; he died,
and four  other members of her  family  in  one
year.  To relate  her  sufferings  in  poverty and
persecution would occupy too much  space here,
but the Prophet Joseph Smith was her unvary-
ing  friend; he  rebuked  those  who  falsely  slan-
dered her; her calling was to nurse the sick, and
faithfully did  she  discharge  that  duty.  She
crossed the plains at the time when the cholera
raged fearfully  in  the  camp,  and  many  were
buried by the wayside.  Mother Neyman shrank
not from the hazardous task of administering to
the victims of that disease, both  temporally  and
spiritually,  believing that  if  she  did  all  in  her
power  to save others, the Lord would spare her,
and thus it proved.  She  lived  to  do  good,  to
wash anoint and nurse hundreds of her sex, to
soothe and comfort their hearts, to which office
she was set apart by the holy priesthood, and in 
many  instances, through  her  faith,  was  the
power of God manifested in a marvelous manner.
The writer knew her intimately  for  more  than
thirty years, and never did I know of her wav-
ering in her faith in regard to one single ordin-
ance,  or  principle  in  this  kingdom. Mother
Neyman was President of the Relief Society  of
Beaver  in  its  first  organization;  was a  wise
counselor, untiring in  her efforts  to  relieve the
wants of the needy; being aged when  the  busi-
ness of the Society had greatly  increased, she
chose to resign  her  office  to one  younger and


stronger, still continuing to visit and bless the
sick, and bless them she did in very deed. In
her last illness her spirit seemed often com-
muning with persons gone behind the vail
often calling those who visited her by the 
names of people long gone to the spirit world.
She had for a long time been very hard of hear-
ing; many prayers have been offered for her that
the affliction might be removed. She had be-
gun to hear better, and after the stroke could
hear as well as she ever did in her life. The
burden of her desires were that when she en-
tered the home of the redeemed, she might hear
the welcome applause, "Well done, good and
faithful servant, thou hast fought the good fight,
hast kept the faith, hast done thy work, and
done it well, enter thou into the joy of they
Lord." As she drew near the close, she repeat-
ed a verse of a favorite hymn:

"The soul who on Jesus has leaned for repose,
I will not, I cannot, desert to his foes;
That soul, tho' all hell should endeavor to shake,
I'll never; no never, no never forsake."

	She leaves two faithful daughters, who were
greatly attached to her, a host of grandchildren,
and several of the fourth generation. Long will
they miss her in the family circle, and greatly
shall we miss her in our society meetings. Sweet
be the sleep of her we loved.
