WHEN WE WENT GIPSYING.

YES, those days were romantic enough for 
the most imaginative and yet the hap-
piness was positively real. In some re-
spects childhood is fairy land and in a certain
sense it is to the ideal mind like the land
of enchantment. Beautiful in the distance as
we glance far back over the blue and gold hill-
tops of memory. Sweet memory, that brings us
by night and by day, visions of the friends and
scenes of other days. How gladly we weave
them into the grey and sombre present, in our 
after life, with its multifold duties, its cares and
its wearisome burdens.
	When we have waded through a deep river
and are securely landed, we can look back and
contemplate its maginficent beauties, but while
we were exerting all our powers to combat the
difficulties in our course to stem the stream, a
swift, flowing current, or perhaps i[--] some parts
a raging torrent, we could not see the beauty, the 
grandeur of the waters, but when we are landed
on the shore secure from danger, we look with

[Column 2]
admiration at the billowy foam and the rippling
wavelets, and mark how beautiful the sunshine
plays and shivers upon its surface.
	There are points of sublimity in life that appal
us in contemplation, that exhaust all our ener-
gies in the struggle for victory; but when we
have passed the ordeal, we wonder how it so en-
vironed and confused us that we realized not the 
grandeur of the awful moment. The full rich-
ness and pathos, and the more just appreciation
of moments full of a wondrous fascination come
to us in our afternoon of life and throw over all,
even the severest struggles, a halo of splendor,
as the reflection of the setting sun clothes with a
graceful violet and purple radiance the eastern
heavens when it approaches the glorious earth,
and mingles as it were in one dreamy, mantling
cloud of gentle beauty. Thus does the effulgence
of our riper years cast its shadow backward and
light up with a beauty almost divine, the earlier
years, coloring them with a ruby tint, causing
them to resemble in the fanciful picture, the
Elysian fields of Paradise.
	Music loud and even discordant is mellowed
by distance. The chime of clamorous bells a
long way off are softened to the ear. So child-
life touched up by the long interval of time
grows quite resplendant and sparkles like old
wine, and refreshes our minds as we recall its re-
collections perhaps even more. We forget in
general the unpleasant things, and remember
only its sweetnesses and its joys. We scent the 
new mown hay, and we ignore the dust, the
fatigue of the hot summer weather. The blue-
bells and daisies were there, we plucked them
and carried them off as a trophy, but we remem-
ber not that the bees, the wasps, the hornets
and alas! even the snakes sometimes daunted us
when we were wont to recline upon the grassy
knolls among the precious flowers and shrub-
bery.
	O, yes, we went gipsying in our young days,
or nutting and berrying, gathering autumn
leaves, and so forth and so on, which amounts to
the same thing. A merry crowd we were, with
full lunch baskets and light hearts, tripping
gaily over the rough pastures or hillsides, climb-
ing on our way the quaint old rail fences, be-
decking ourselves, with floral treasures, singing
in the merriest strains snatches of songs and
rhymes, and querying if gipsies themselves, of 
whom we had read but never seen, enjoyed with
as keen a relish the open air and bright sun-
shine. Sometimes, we kept within proper
bounds, but occasionally we grew reckless with
the spirit of impetuousness, to which youth is
prone, and gave loose rein to romance, which led
us into difficulty, and had not some kind guar-
dian of youth and innocence watched over us,
we might have been beset with direful danger.
	On one occasion, I do remember me, there
was a giddy crowd of country village maidens,
and one solitary city girl, quite a belle among us,
who had come up from Boston to breathe the
country air, to smell the fresh hay in the mead-
ows as it was tossed about, to drink new milk
and eat the coarse brown bread famed in New
England for its health restoring qualities. We
were bent upon having "a good time," and had
wandered far over the fields and into strange
pastures, when we came upon a small lake, or,
as we would term it, a pond, where upon the bank
was moored a little skiff, or small canoe, with
oars alongside. The city girl, whose word was
law with us, and whose ignorance far exceeded
ours in all practical matters, proposed we ven-
ture out in the old boat and gather water-lillies.
Our knowledge of rowing was very inadequate,
as we had been accustomed to trust our brothers
with this part of the pastime, but we deter-
mined to make the attempt. Four of us under-
took to row, but ere' long we found the boat
leaked and was fast filling with water, and in
our desperation we commenced to dip it out
with our leghorn hats. We pulled off the gay
ribbons, cramming them in our pockets, and
baled out the water as fast as possible; but fear
was depicted on every countenance, and we for-
got the water-lillies and all else except our diso-
bedience, our wayward recklessness for fun and
frolic. Sober and thoughtful, we tried to steer
for shore, and tremblingly we watched the sun
go down, and wondered if we should be able to
reach our homes ere nightfall. But fortunately
for us, we had not gone far from shore, but
weary and faint, trembling with cold and our
feet dripping wet, we reached the muddy shore
at a point far from where we "sailed away" so
gaily. A sorry looking crowd we were, and
scrambling out, we left the poor old boat and 
rushed almost wild through bramble and bri-
ars, scarcely daring to think of the danger we
had escaped. And though we had not

[Column 3]spoken of it until we were safely
landed, some of us knew that rumor
said there was a place in the pond that had no
bottom. This was gipysing with a vengeance.
Moral: Never venture beyond what reason and 
good judgment dictate for the sake of frolic and
fun and a "jolly good time." Remember, dis-
cretion is the better part of valor, and keep the
propensity for romance always under the dicta-
tion of sound common sense. If we would always
observe this, many serious perplexities might be
avoided. Many a pun[--]minded young girl has
made a fearful record by indulging in the exces-
sive and uncontrolled love of romance; and the
denouement has often been more thrilling and
sensational than the most imaginative in their 
youthful impulsiveness anticipated. Our strong-
est and wildest passions beautify our life,but they
require skill in their management and the dis-
cipline and restraint, which is only to be obtain-
ed by carefully contrasting them with the stern
realisms of every day experiences.
