BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are circumstances in every life, though
some may be so small that we fail to note them
at the time they occur, that yet cause a leaf to
be turned in the book of life, which will color all
the future. We see this in the important step
Alice took in starting to New York to begin life
on her own account by means of her pen! With
her great and grand mind, her strong will and
brave endurance, her character was still strictly
feminine, and had she married as she expected
at that time the man she loved and to whom
she was engaged, her life would have been that
of a devoted wife, a loving mother—in fine, a
woman of the highest type.
	Business interests brought into her home
neighborhood a man—at that time her superior
in age, culture and fortune; he sought out her
family as superior to the surroundings, and
Alice most especially; an attachment sprang up
between them, to her he became, the man among
men, the king of her youthl She never loved
another! His family were proud and prosperous,
and exerted all their influence to prevent his
alliance with a poor, obscure, uneducated rustic!
Years after she said, in speaking of this epoch
of her early life, "I waited for one who never
came back, till after a time,I read his marriage in
the paper!! Think what life would be, loving
one, wating for one who never came back!"
Years after he did come back; his wife was
dead, and Alice was dying! "The grey haired
man sat down by the grey haired woman." Life
had prospered with him, suffering and death
had taken all from her save the lustre of her
wondrous eyes; from her wan and faded face
they shone full upon him with the tenderness
of youth. She forgave him for her blighted,
weary life, with a smile as divine as ever beam-
ed on the face of an angel! Thus they met who
had parted plighted lovers in early youth! Alice
Cary's was no weak nature, all its fine feminine
gold was set in a will of iron. All its deep ten-
derness was walled in by justice, common sense,
and strict integrity; she outlived that sorrowful
youth to become one of the workers of the world;
she had many offers of marriage, some splendid,
but she never entered into another engagement;
the king of her youth passed out from her life,
but the niche in her heart's temple remained
vacant. It was in this desolation of her youth
that she determined to go to New York and
make a home, and life work for herself, she did
so and after a short time sent for her sisters
Phoebe and Elmina to join her. Of this depar-
ture from their paternal home Phoebe says,
"Without advice or counsel of any but
ourselves, we resolved to go to New York, and
after the manner of children in the story book,
seek our fortune." They hired two or three rooms
in a quiet neighborhood, and set earnestly to
work to earn a living by the pen! They lived in
a very humble, economical way, writing for
whatever papers would accept their contribu-
tions and taking any remuneration that was
offered them, thus they managed to live and
keep out of debt. They had a horror of board-
ing, and from the first determined to make a
home, however humble it might be; and this
made their life a success. Alice papered the
room with her own hands and Phoebe painted
the doors, framed the pictures, and "bright-
ened up" things in general. Their
home was a cheerful and a happy one
and they drew friends around them, who were
friends to their closing scene of life on earth.
One of the most devoted was the celebrated
Horace Greeley; he was faithful even unto death,
and attended the funeral of Alice to its last
resting place, and saw the last sod laid upon her
grave. He refers to their early tea parties as
follows: "Being already an acquaintance, I
called upon the sisters, soon after they set up
their household gods among us, and met them
at intervals thereafter at their home or at the
homes of their friends. Their parlor was not so
large as some others, but quite as neat and
cheerful; and the few literary persons, or artists,
who occasionally met at their informal invita-
tion to discuss with them a cup of tea, and the
newest books, poems, or events might have
found many more pretentious, but few more en-
joyable gatherings."
	Thus began in 1851 the life work of Alice and
Phoebe Carey in New York. The next year saw
the coming out of Alice's first series of "Clover-
nook Papers," their very simplicity and freshness
won all hearts; they sold largely in this country
and in Great Britain. She was free on her na-

[Column 2]
tive heath, when she painted rural scenery and
rural life. These papers were translated into
French at Paris. Her active brain and soul pro-
duced in twenty years eleven volumes, every
word and thought of which wrought from her
own being, and every line of which was written
by her own hand.
	In the same number of years Phoebe, be-
sides aiding in the editing of several books, the
most important of which was "Hymns for all
Christians," published by Hurd and Houghton,
in 1869, brought out "Poems and Parodies," pub-
lished by Ticknor and Fields, 1854, and "Poems
of Faith, Hope and Love," issued by Hurd and
Houghton, besides at their death poems enough
uncollected to give each name two added vol-
umes, one of each a book of child poems. I have
much to relate about Phoebe, but have no more
room at present.


