[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: STATE SOCIETY D. AND R. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

STATE SOCIETY D. AND R.

	A State Society of Utah of the Daughters
of the Revolution was organized on Wed-
nesday, November 16, 1898, in the office of 
the “Woman’s Exponent,” room 208,
Templeton building, in this city. The 
names of State officers elected were pub-
lished in our columes in the issue of Dec-
ember 1, 1898.
	On Friday December 16, the famous Bos-
ton Tea Party day, a meeting was held at
the residence of Mrs. Maria V. Dougall,


where a suitable and interesting program
for the occasion was successfully carried
out. Light refreshments were daintily
served to the D. R. and guests.
	Friday, January 6, there was a meeting
at the residence of Hon. Alice S. M. Horne,
member of the House of Representatives of
the State Legislature of Utah now in ses-
sion, but owing to adverse circumstances
the adoption of the Constitution was post-
poned, also the reading of the inaugural
address of the State Regent, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	Monday, January 16, the D. R. Society
met in the Templeton and the regent gave
her address and the Constitution was unani-
mously adopted. A State Council was
appointed, and committees on Press and
Printing and Decoration.
	The members of the Council are Mrs.
Carlie Young Cannon, Mrs. Isabel M.
Whitney Sears, Mrs. J. P. Murdock Farns-
worth, Mrs. Sarah Farr Smith, Mrs. Myra
Young Rossiter, Mrs. Ella Wilcox Hyde.
COMMITTEE ON PRESS.
	Mrs. Alice S. M. Horne, Miss Catharine
Wells, Miss Claire Clawson.
ON DECORATION.
	Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie, Miss Mabelle
Snow, Mrs. Ella Wilcox Hyde.
	The next meeting of the society will be
held in the Templeton, room 208, on Fri-
day, February 16, at 3 p. m., when busi-
ness pertaining to the annual meeting will
be transacted, and it is desirable all members
should be present and participate in the pro-
ceedings. It is the intention of the society
to incorporate shortly under the laws of the
State.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


