[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: ST. JOSEPH STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Believing our sisters would like to know
what the Relief Society sisters are doing in
far off Arizona, I will give you a short ac-
count.
	Our conference convened on Dec. 3, 1898,
President Elizabeth Layton presiding.
There were present of the priesthood
Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff, President
Andrew Kimball, Counselors William D.
Johnson and Charles M. Layton.
	The speakers touched on many impor-
tant subjects, viz. storing of grain, building
a Stake granary, as we have on hand 995
bushels of grain; on tithing, fast donations,
supporting the Church school, necessity of
attending to prayers, looking after the poor
and needy, comforting the widows and or-
phans.
	It was decided that on the evening of
Dec. 6, we have a Stake reunion in
the form of a dance and repast. There
were over three hundred present and all
partook of a sumptuous supper. Apostle
Abraham O. Woodruff and Elder Seymour
B. Young were present to add to the dig-
nity of the occasion. The dancing began
at seven p. m., and closed at twelve p. m.
The proceeds of the party which were
$65.00 were used to defray the expenses of
two sisters who were in Salt Lake City
taking a course in obstetrics under Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp.
	The health of the people in general is
good, though this has been the coldest
winter witnessed in the last fifteen years.
The weather at present is delightful.
		SELENA PHILLIPS, Stake Sec.
	Thatcher, Ariz., Jan. 7, 1899.
MURRAY BRANCH, S. C. WARD.
	The annual meeting of the Murray branch
of South Cottonwood ward Relief Society
was held in the Scandinavian hall, Oct. 28,
1898, President Margaret Carruth presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Now let us
rejoice,” etc. Prayer by Bishop J. S.
Rawlins. Singing “How firm a founda-
tion.” Minutes of the previous annual

[Column 2]
meeting read and approved  The annual
report was read and accepted.
	President M. I. Horne of Salt Lake
Stake spoke words of cheer and comfort to
the sisters and bore a strong testimony to
the truth of the Latter-day work; encour-
aged us also to be diligent in our duties,
look after the poor, comfort the sick, and
for the mothers to watch over their children
and teach them to be pure and virtuous.
Spoke on the signs of the times. Asked
the Lord to bless the sisters.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon urged the
sisters to be faithful in attending their
meetings, said it was both a duty and a
pleasure, and to be punctual in meeting
at the time appointed, that the angels might
be waiting Spoke also upon humility and
kindness, to forgive each other. Said let
us try and bear our trials and be thankful
to the Lord that we have a place with His
people.
	President Pixton of Taylorsville was
glad that she was a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ and asked the Lord to bless
all the Relief Society. Told the sisters to
attend to their meetings and they would
get their reward.
	President Rawlins of the South Cotton-
wood ward Relief Society said she desired
to continue faithful in this great work, and
told the sisters to prepare for an eternal ex-
stence.
	Bishop Joseph S. Rawlins and Brother
Charles Holm thanked the president for in-
viting them to speak. In their remarks
they encouraged the sisters in their good
work, and stated that the Relief Society
was a great aid in assisting them in taking
care of the poor.
	President Carruth spoke of the newness
of the society, knew the sisters were good
and faithful in the society work. Thanked
the brethren and sisters for meeting with us.
	Singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Brother Charles
Holm.
		MARGARET CARRUTH, Pres.
SANDWICH ISLANDS.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Hawaiian mission held in the Laie
meeting house on Saturday morning, Oct.
8, 1898.
	Promptly at 9:30 the Hawaiian sisters,
together with the sisters from Zion, formed
in line and marched to the meeting house.
Meeting commenced at 10 a. m., President
Alice R. Woolley presiding. With her on
the stand were her assistants, Elizabeth C.
Williams, Jennie P. Musser, Ellen C. Cole,
Anna Kaulukou and Kapu Kou. Meeting
opened with singing “Joy to the world.”
Prayer by Luukia Pono. Singing on page
200 of the Hawaiian hymn book. Minutes
of the previous April conference read and
approved.
	President Alice R. Woolley spoke a few
words of welcome and encouragement, and
felt thankful to our Father in heaven for
His great blessings to us, that we were per-
mitted to meet together again under such
favorable circumstances, and hoped the
spirit of the Lord would be with us that we
may be able to receive the necessary instruc-
tions that would be for our best good at the
present time. Felt to rejoice greatly in the
work of God and urged all to be faithful
and seek diligently for the spirit of the
Lord that it may be our constant companion.
	Sister Kapo Kou spoke on the benefits of
the Relief Society and the purpose for
which it was instituted.


[Column 1]
	The Hawaiian society was then represen-
ted by one of its officers. “The Lord is my
light” was sung very nicely by the Misses
Adalade and Madaline Fernandez.
	Sister Kaulukou gave a favorable and in-
teresting report of the work done in com-
pany with Sister Garff on the island of
Maui, and spoke of the Relief Society as or-
ganized by Joseph Smith. An encourag-
ing report of Laie society was given by
Sister Nainoa.
	Sister Kekuku and daughter sang "O,
my Father,” with pleasing effect. Sister
Annie Kou reported her labors in company
with Sister Kapili on the island of Hawaii,
spoke of the great interest that was taken
in some of the branches of that island.
	Sister Jennie Mnsser encouraged all to
remain steadfast in the work of God, and to
appreciate His blessings to us here on earth.
	Alemai was represented by the president
of the branch. Conference adjourned until
one o’clock in the afternoon. Singing from
the Hawaiian hymn book. Benediction by
Sister Nakoi.
	Afternoon session: Singing by the
Hawaiian choir “Truth has risen.” Pray-
er by Sister Kamaka Eleakala. Singing
"Hail to the brightness,” etc. Favorable
reports were given from eight branches of
the society of this and the adjacent islands,
all were in a favorable condition.
	Kekuewa Nakuaau spoke on the restora-
tion of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Sister
Minerva Fernandez gave a biographical
sketch of President Wilford Woodruff.
	Sister Cole said we had met to gain spirit-
ual strength. We all have much work to
perform. Woman’s mission here on earth
is a great one, her influence is great and
therefore all should try and exert an in-
fluence for good. Mothers should teach
their children the Gospel and set worthy
examples before them at all times. Her re-
marks were interpreted by Elder J. B.
Hooper.
	Sister Hattie Davis reported her labors in
connection with Sister Woolley on the is-
land of Kauai, the majority of the branches
of the society on that island were in a favor-
able condition.
	Sister Elizabeth C. Williams expressed
her pleasure in meeting in the Relief Soci-
ety conference, and exhorted all to search
the scriptures for light, for we cannot any
of us be saved in ignorance. Encouraged
the sisters to attend to their duties and put
themselves in a position that they can
claim the blessings that are promised unto
the faithful.
	The general officers of the Relief Society
of Zion and of the Hawaiian mission were
presented and unanimously sustained.
	President Samuel E. Woolley was pleased
with the good instructions that had been
given, and hoped we would make good use
of them in the future. Encouraged all to
continue in the good work.
	President Alice R. Woolley felt very
much gratified with the meetings today,
knew that the spirit of the Lord had been
with us for we had had a time of rejoicing
together. Spoke of her visit to the island
of Kauai, felt encouraged with the pro-
gress the sisters were making there. En-
couraged the young ladies to join the Re-
lief Society and assist in rolling on the
great work of God.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing from the Hawaiian hymn book.
Benediction by Elder Lewis R. Jenkins.

	Thinking perhaps that a few words

[Column 2]
from the missionary sisters on these islands
would be of interest to the readers of the
“Exponent,” we will endeavor to give a
brief sketch of our labors.
	There are at present six sisters laboring
in the Hawaiian mission, and we are striv-
ing in our weak way to accomplish the
purpose for which we were sent. The Lord
has greatly blessed us while laboring in
these lands and we are thankful that we are
able to spend a portion of our time in His
vineyard, in striving to raise the people to a
higher plane of morality. Our labors con-
sist in taking care of the Mission Home,
working in the Relief Society, Sunday
School, Mutual Improvement Association,
Primary Association; also teaching the
children music. We are striving to ac-
quire the Hawaiian language and feel
grateful that the Lord has blessed us with a
portion of it. Peace and contentment is in
our midst and at the dawning of another
new year everything seems to be in a pros-
perous condition.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and
the cause of truth we are,
	Your colaborers[-]
