[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: TENDENCIES OF THE AGE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

TENDENCIES OF THE AGE.

	There never was a time in any age of the
world when there was such a tendency to
higher education and in every direction to-
wards progress and development along the
lines of activity, practical, mental, scienti-
fic and inventive in many, and indeed in al-
most all parts of the world, as at the present.
One must be very wide awake to keep in-
formed even on the lines that lie most in
one’s own practical way of thinking and
doing.
	There is less awakening in the spiritual
life of the people, the tendency being more
material than otherwise; the money ques-
tion has seemingly swallowed up much of
the religious nature of the world at large.
Wealth more than aught else is fast be-
coming, if it has not already, the most
potent influence in even religious circles.
Indeed money may be called the passion of
the age as well as the ruling power, and
“more’s the pity, and pity ’tis that it is so.”
	To be sure money or some exchange of
value or barter is necessary in this worka-
day world, yet when men and women have
this morbid craving for money, it seems to
absorb every wholesome element in one’s
nature and change the entire character.
	If a restraining influence could be
brought to bear upon character thro’ the
higher thought and education of which we
hear so much, that would tend to modifi-
cation in this direction, what a different
world this would be. Out of all the soci-
eties and organizations for information and
for equalizing conditions there seems no
combined force strong enough as yet to
overthrow the money power. Are the peo-
ple about to succumb to a materialism that
will tend to degrade and despoil the inheri-
tance of virtue and true nobility that has
been the proud boast of American civiliza-
tion?
	To guard against the spirit of extrava-
gance and luxurious living, even though
one has the wherewith to obtain it, is in-
deed commendable, especially if the means
is used to build up industries that will give
employment to the workers who are com-
pelled to live by wages, or salaries as the
case may be.
	Brigham Young’s ideas in this respect-
were almost ideal. To live simply and to
devote means to fostering industries that
would build up the community and lay a
foundation for generations yet to come or the
emigrants from other countries, that all
might have something to do.
	It is appalling to contemplate the future
of young people reared in indolence and
luxury, accustomed to the gratification of
every want, and without thought of any of
the sober realities of life; living for pleas-
ure and vanity. That ever work should be
considered degrading is a mistake. That
all are not adapted to the same sort of work
is true, and parents should not (in our
opinion) compel children to follow a pur-
suit that is particularly distasteful. But if
there could be something of a return to
agricultural pursuits in this Western land
it would be a blessing. Every farmer
might be a gentleman; subduing the earth 
is a commandment and there is yet much to
be done in this direction. What are our
boys to do when they are grown? is a
question often asked and seldom satis-


[Column 1]
factorily answered. Those who strike out
into new territory and take up new land
making homes by dint of hard labor and
grow up with the community become in
many instances not only founders of cities
and towns, but often if capable and reliable
are chosen to fill important positions of
trust and emolument.
	Speaking of farmers as gentlemen, a cir-
cumstance came under the notice of the
writer which illustrates the fact. Visiting
in New England at a country farm house a
census taker called one morning to make
inquiries for his report. Among other
questions was the one curtly put, “What is
your occupation?” “A gentleman farmer,”
was the reply. “A gentleman farmer!”
said the interlocuter as he surveyed the
man from head to foot, “can’t I give you
some other title?” “No sir,” was the
only answer. Evidently being satisfied he
would get no further information he left
the house.
	Afterwards Mr. H. explained that every
clerk or wage-earner was of the opinion
that men who tilled the ground or were
engaged in agricultural pursuits could not
be classed as gentlemen; and it gave me
new thoughts upon the subject. Mr. H.
had been a Prof. of mathematics, a civil
engineer, had even been a member of the
Legislature of his state, but preferred in
his later years to retire to his country farm
and discard all other pursuits. Neverthe-
less he still intended to be considered a
gentleman by such young men as the one
referred to, and a gentleman he was indeed
though he did more actual work on his own
farm than half a dozen hired men, for in
these days some of the laboring men have
all flocked to the cities and large towns. A
striking contrast to the New England of
half a century ago.
	It is a well known fact that the greatest
men America has produced have been
raised upon a farm and accustomed to the
hard work of the farmer’s son. To be a
land owner was the pride and ambition of
the early settlers of our country.
	Homes of their own for the common peo-
ple was the sentiment Brigham Young
tried to inculcate and practically to demon-
strate in these mountain vales during the
period of the early settlement here. Who
does not know that the home is the centre
from which springs the best in life and in
government. Not from hotels and board-
ing houses, nor from transient occupancy
of "houses for rent”—whether they are
spacious mansions or neat cottages or
miserable hovels. The home which is our
own is the ideal one, the children enshrine
it in their memory, “the old home,” and
“childhood’s home,” are subjects for the
poets. If every young man in the com-
munity would strive for a home of his own,
how much it would do towards a better and
more permanent standing in the welfare of
the state.
	The writer can never forget with what
laudable pride she spoke upon the subject
during her first visit to Washington twenty
years ago. And how the ladies of the Con-
vention listened to women owning their
own homes and paying their own taxes.
The president of the United States himself
listened carefully to the statement, and his
gentle and amiable wife, how interested
she felt in this simple fact. But, alas, how
different, now!
	Simplicity of living is a virtue. Not
miserliness, but true economy which so
few people in this age seem to practice.

[Column 2]
Plain living is healthful and happifying.
There is, there must be room somewhere
for everybody to live honestly and respec-
tably; better far to launch out into new
fields and begin at the foundation than to
fight ones way in the great cities along the
crowded thoroughfares, where there are
hundreds of applicant with whom to com-
pete.
	The tendency to “single blessedness,” so
miscalled, instead of family life, is on the
increase and has reached even to these val-
leys. It is injurious to manhood and wo-
manhood and contrary to the laws of nature
and of God. “Multiply and replenish the
earth” is the first commandment given to
man in the Holy Scriptures, and has never
been countermanded. The inclination to
postpone marriage until late in life or alto-
gether is a growing evil, and should be dep-
recated certainly among Latter-day Saints.
That girls are extravagant and require
liberal settlements beforehand is scarcely a
good excuse. What girls and women long
for most and look forward to is love. And
honorable marriage with true love is what
the girls have a right to expect, and that
makes up for lack of this world’s goods.
“Love in a cottage” is where contentment
abides much more securely and far more
generally than in a palace, the old-fash-
ioned poet “Cotton” writes,

Though fools spurn Hymen’s gentle powers,
We, who improved is golden hours,
	By sweet experience know,
That marriage, rightly understood,
Gives to the tender and the good,
	A paradise below.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
