[Vol11 | May 1924 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Hawaiian Mission
The interesting group in the accompanying picture is made up of Relief Society women of the Kauai Conference, with Elder Henry DeHaan, president of the conference. In the front row are the presidents of the various Relief Society branches in the conference, with Elder DeHaan at the right.
Relief Society meetings in Hawaii are conducted practically the same as at home, except in a different tongue. The same good spirit prevails as does the same desire to be helpful to one another. One of the chief interests is the care of the sick and needy, and every effort is put forth to cover the needs along these lines.
Southern States Mission
President Grace E. Callis of the Southern States Mission writes: "I am happy to report a substantial growth of the work and increasing development of the spirit of the work in our mission. We are keeping in mind the mission of the Relief Society as the Prophet Joseph Smith outlined it?to look after the wants of the


needy. There are several cases where the Relief Societies are clothing and feeding aged people whose better days are over and who have no one to support them. In addition to other activities, the sisters are making various articles such as quilts and clothing for the poor, and in one society they are making layettes for expectant mothers who are in distressing financial circumstances, They have helped sick elders, and are imbued with the spirit to alleviate pain, to remove want and to succor the distressed. Some of the members in the country are making pillows, pillow slips, dresser scarfs and other things for the new mission home. In branches where conference headquarters are located the Relief Societies have placed in the conference houses stoves, rugs, bedding, etc. They also help to buy pianos for the branches.
"When a conference of all the missionaries and the saints from the various parts of the conference is held, in the branches, the Relief Society sisters provide luncheon Saturday and Sunday. Sometimes two luncheons a day are served. This involves much labor and considerable expense, but is greatly appreciated by the visitors who come from distant parts to conference, and also by the missionaries.
"The Lamanite members in the Catawba Indian Nation, are doing very well in their Relief Society work. They make pottery and other novelties which they sell and thus raise considerable means. They do good in attending to the sick, and have wonderful faith.
"At the present time all the Relief Societies are officered by local sisters. They labor under unusual conditions and are therefore entitled to very much credit for their faithful labors. It is remarkable to note the development that takes place in the sisters who devote themselves to the Relief Society work. They become more efficient home makers, manage their children better and are able to cope more wisely with domestic duties."
Ogden Stake (Bound Magazines)
The Ogden stake has made a record with regard to preserving the Relief Society Magazine which is most praiseworthy and which is probably unique in ward organizations. Every ward organization in this stake has a complete set of the bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, including the Relief Society Bulletin which was published the year preceding the publication of the Magazine, and is counted as volume one.
Shelley Stake
A stupendous work in the matter of raising funds has been NOTES FROM THE FIELD Rect accomplished in the Shelley stake during the last year and a half. A little over a year ago the stake president made a call on the eight Relief Societies for $1200 for the L. D. S. Hospital at Idaho Falls, Idaho, and it was but a few weeks before the entire amount was raised and turned over. The stake Relief Society board was then asked to aid in making a payment on the ground for the stake tabernacle, and they assisted in the amount of $200. The next call was to assist the Blackfoot stake, the county, and other agencies in putting a county nurse in the schools, and $200 was raised for. This purpose. (This project is explained in the January Magazine.) The accomplishment of this extra work, in addition to all of the regular activities of the organization, none of which have been neglected, speaks volumes for the energy and interest of the Relief Society women of Shelley stake. Cottonwood Stake Cottonwood stake is to be congratulated upon the health work it has accomplished during the last two years. Two permanent health clinics have been established by the Relief Society stake board and are open weekly for examinations and followup work. These clinics were organized and established for the purpose of assisting the mothers in the southern part of Salt Lake County with their child health problems, these women not being privileged to attend the Salt Lake City clinics. The Murray clinic was opened in January, 1922, and the Midvale branch clinic, in January, 1924. In 1923 the Murray clinic became affiliated with the Child Hygiene Bureau of the State Board of Health, and has since that time been a beneficiary of the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. These clinics are financed by the stake board with funds raised in various ways. The Murray clinic is open on Thursdays and the Midvale clinic on Wednesdays, of each week. Two or three stake board members are always in attendance in addition to two doctors, one trained nurse, and one nurse aid. The nurses (who are members of the Relief Society) and also the doctors give their services free. The permanency of these clinics and the regular weekly service gives opportunity for follow-up work which is such an important factor and doubles the value of the clinics. The mothers in this stake are most grateful for the help they are receiving and word has reached the ears of Mrs. Amanda Bagley, stake president, that they feel that their Relief Society has never done anything more important than helping them to keep their babies well. The Murray clinic record shows that in 1922 there were 126 children examined and 495 visits made to the clinic; in 1923, 176 children were examined and there were 620 visits to the clinic. So enthusiastic are the Cottonwood stake workers with their health program and the results they are obtaining, that they are now considering the propo- Lo RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sition of adding a field nurse to their present staff of workers, which will make professional home visiting possible. Salt Lake County Stakes (Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Oquirrh, Pioneer, Salt Lake) An interesting piece of work accomplished by the Salt Lake County stakes during the holiday season was the gift of warm outing flannel pajamas and night dresses to the tubercular division of the Salt Lake County hospital. There were in all four dozen pairs of pajamas and one dozen night dresses. After the gift was decided upon, a committee of two presidents was appointed to purchase the materials and arrange for the cutting. The Relief Society general office was the distributing and receiving center and in less than ten days the material was purchased, the sewing done, and the finished articles delivered to the County Hospital. It is a well known fact that the State of Utah has made no Jrovision for institutional care for the tuberculous. It is also known and understood that people afflicted with tuberculosis need specialized care which can not well be given in most homes. The Relief Society women of Salt Lake County, in their gift of warm bed clothing to the tubercular division of the Salt Lake County hospital, demonstrated their appreciation for the effort being made by the hospital to give the needed treatment and care to those who are afflicted with this dreaded but curable malady, many of whom through long illness and lack of care have exhausted their own resources and the resources of their families. In order to insure regular, periodic, friendly visiting by the Relief Society, officially, at the County Infirmary, the Salt Lake County stakes are carrying out a joint program. Many Relief Society women go individually to the Infirmary to see individual patients, and Relief Society social workers are to be found there frequently in the interest of patients, but in the official visiting by the stakes, a large group of Relief Society women visit the patients as a group. They conduct a program, serve refreshments, and spend a social hour. There are other organizations in the city interested in the Infirmary, and at the holiday season, especially, entertainments and parties are arranged and carried out by other agencies. Weber County Stakes (Mt. Ogden, North Weber, Ogden, Weber) The Weber County stakes each devote one day a month to 'sewing for the Dee Hospital. The sewing is done at the institution, where a large room is provided, equipped with six sewing machines and other necessities for the work. The third week NOTES FROM THE FIELD ~. 263 in the month is used for this work, all stakes going the same week, but on separate days. North Weber stake sews on Tuesday, Weber on Wednesday, Ogden on Thursday, and Mt. Ogden on Friday. Each stake sends from six to twelve workers, who | go to the hospital at 9 a. M. And work until 5 or 6 p. M. The hospital serves a mid-day luncheon. The group usually includes two or three stake board members, several ward officers and a number of members. The women make everything that is used in the hospital including sheets, pillow cases, operating aprons, towels, dresser scarfs, ether jackets and stockings, bandages, and baby clothes. Thousands of articles have been sewed or mended during the year. The following record will give an idea of the extent of the work and the rapidity with which it has been done: during a period of eight sewing days, six women made or mended 769 articles. During 1923 the four stakes have co-operated in visiting officially the County Infirmary. A visit has been made to the institution every month which means three visits during the year from each of the four stakes. A program of music, readings, dances, etc., has been given each time, and refreshments served the patients. On Thanksgiving and Christmas, special music was provided and on Christmas there were personal gifts of boxes of candy and other dainties. In speaking of this activity, one stake president says: "The County Infirmary visits have resulted in much good, not only to the patients but to all of those who have visited them. Many times the patients have expressed sincere appreciation for all that has been done for them. I have had several letters from patients who are unable to leave their beds and they say that no one took an interest in them until the Relief Society began this good work." Western States Mission Great success has attended the winter program of activities of the Western States Mission Relief Society, which is comprised of twenty-two active societies. The program has been carried out in accordance with the instructions of the General Board of the organization, yet it is gratifying to the officers of the mission societies to know that much of the success is to be attributed to the untiring efforts of the officers and the helpful co-operation of the members. Prior to the Christmas holiday season several of the societies conducted bazaars, which were pronounced successful both socially and financially, and some of which netted the organization over $200. The proceeds of the entertainments were used 
 in defraying the expense for distributing Christmas baskets to the poor. The societies have at all times assisted the other auxiliary organizations in their projects, and have helped in raising funds "-for the purchase of sacrament sets, in building additions to, and painting meeting-houses in the mission. In addition to the distribution of clothing and necessities to the poor, the societies are preparing clothing to be used in maternity cases. This project, although in its infancy, will no doubt prove very helpful and beneficial, as the members of the organization are often called upon to give aid to expectant mothers. Sister Florence R. Knight, president of the Mission Relief Societies, has recently organized a society at Fort Collins, composed of twelve ladies. Although the work is new, the members are anxious to begin their activities, and the society will no doubt meet with as much success as has its sister organizations. As the seventeenth of March marks the 82nd anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, the various societies throughout the Western States Mission prepared fitting entertainments in celebration of the occasion. This year's celebrations were even more stccessful and enjoyable than those of previous years. Mother By M. A. Stewart, Phoenix, Arizona There is no one like mother, We need the love of mother, No matter where we go; -I will help to bridge us o'er There is on earth no other The gulf of sin's temptation Can take her place you know. And strengthen us the more; She has the panacea The kindly words of caution For every ache and pain That well up from her heart And knows just what is needed Will give us hope and courage To make'us well again. To do life's noble part. She's always so forgiving O mother! When we're tempted, Of all the wrong we do, And strength 'twould seem must Which makes us feel like living fail? Our lives both pure and true. May God project thy vision We hope to be more like her A-cross the luring trail! When we are fully grown Thy face so kind and pleading; And live a wise example Thine eyes so calm and mild; To children of our own. Shall give the soul the vict'ry And save thine erring child!