[Vol11 | May 1924 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Getting Ready for Cousin Alice Annie Pike Greenwood]

GETTING READY FOR COUSIN ALICE 241
her off because she was determined to leave everything in perfect shape for her Cousin Alice, but she goes tomorrow."
Dr. Snow regarded her keenly. "You are looking much better, Mrs. Woodbury. What have you been doing to yourself?" There was surprise in his voice.
"Just getting ready to go, Doctor. But I have had such a good time doing it. I didn't have a bit of trouble, and for the first time since we came on the farm I have things as nearly the way I want them as can be. Every drawer is in order, every button on, everything clean. Why, I could keep house here myself with less trouble than ever before. You see Cousin Alice is very particular, and I have been breaking my family of some of their bad habits so as not to annoy her."
"Have you had any headaches since that one you called me for?"
"Not a headache, Doctor. I have been too busy and happy to be sick?Doctor, don't you think I could stay here instead of going?"
"No, Millie,' John interposed quickly, "Dr. Snow knows what is best for you."
"Oh, I don't know," said Dr. Snow, "Mrs. Woodbury is looking so much better since I saw her last. I know a good girl you could get, Woodbury, and it wouldn't cost you as much as the trip would. Only, you must promise to get her out at least four times a week, with not more than one child at a time with her."
"Is it wise, Doctor?" John was pathetically eager.
"Perfectly. Getting ready for Cousin Alice," the doctor smiled, "has done her a world of good. Now, if you can let her enjoy the fruits of her labors instead of having Cousin Alice enjoy them, I really believe that it will do her more good to remain here than go away from her family where she might worry about them. Provided, of course, that you will make her go out often."
"Oh, we will, Dr. Snow!" Doris could restrain herself no longer, but ran around the table to hug her mother, "Mama's got a lot of pretty new clothes that I know she is just dying to show the people out here. Anyway I am dying to have her. I just won't let her mope at home any longer. From now on I am mother to the babies."
The glad tears were in Millie's eyes. All these evidences of love touched her deeply, for John was regarding her with adoration, Jimmy and Beth were clinging to her with all their hearts, while Doris threatened to squeeze the breath out of her.
"I thought Mrs. Woodbury had gone, when I came out," said Dr. Snow, "I understood in town that she had done so. What I came to see you about, Woodbury, was that I have bought


me a big new Franklin. How would you like to buy my Jitney?"
"Oh, I'd like it all right?but I might not be able to do so just now."
"That's all right. Your word is good. You can have it on your own terms. Come out in the morning and get it. Then you will be sure of getting your wife started going out tomorrow. When she gets to whirling around in the Jitney you won't be able to keep her at home. On the way back you can bring that girl I spoke of?she is living at the Gorry ranch. Big, strong, capable. Know you'll like her. That Jitney's yours, so expect you in the morning."
The doctor was gone. John sank on his knees beside Jimmy and Beth, and put one arm around his wife and the other around the two children. Doris and he smiled into each other's eyes.
THE HIGHEST SALARIED POSTMISTRESS IN AMERICA
She is the highest salaried woman "postmaster" in America! Mrs. Elizabeth D. Barnard, "postmaster" at Tampa, Fla., the first woman ever assigned head of a $6,000 post office! Further, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Barnard, "postmaster" at Tampa, Fla., the woman who holds this distinction, has traveled in less than twenty years from a $4 a week job in a hardware store to the position she now occupies. Here is her story.
Born in a rural district of Florida in 1881, she found herself at the age of 24 a widow with two small children to support and educate and no income with which to do it. She had been reared in the country schools of the undeveloped country of Florida and had little opportunity for an education that would prove an asset in helping her to make a living. It was not a question of picking and choosing jobs. She knew that she must take any job she could find, and in the little town of Arcadia, Fla., she finally secured employment as clerk in a hardware store at $4 a week. She did not rail at fate, but set to work to make herself worth more, spending all her spare time taking a correspondence course in stenography. As soon as she felt sufficiently sure of herself she took and passed the examination for post office clerk at Tampa. She was appointed at a salary of $600 a year. This was the entering wedge to her real success. She has been connected with the Tampa postoffice for seventeen years, and has gone from clerk to private secretary, to confidential clerk, to cashier to foreman of inquiries, to assistant superintendent of mails and finally to postmaster. Her position of assistant superintendent of mails has always before been held by a man, as has the position of postmaster in an office in the $6,000 grade. ?New York Sun.
Pa and Ma By Lula W. Bowler
Homesick? Yes, I've got it bad! Hain't been home for 'most two years An' it makes a person sad, An' he can't keep back the tears. Got a fam'ly sure enough, But that don't matter, not a straw, I'm lonesome fer the dear old home, An' and I want my pa and ma.
Birds a' singin' here 'tis true, An' the air is soft and sweet; Sky is brightest springtime blue An' there's frogs in their retreat. But that don't help, no, not a bit; You can't sing and laugh, ha, ha, When yer hearts ez heavy ez lead An' you want yer pa and ma.
I've got friends ets true and good An' I like 'em sure I do; They'd do anything they could Fer to make me feel less blue. But they can't help, no, not a bit, When yer heart is sore and raw The only salve that's sure to cure Is just ta see yer pa and ma.
Life has cares an' troubles, too, Et you got ta meet each day; 'Tain't no matter what ye do They're sure comin' 'round your way. But you can stand a lot in life While yer daily breath ye draw, If, when you get darn lonesome, Ye can see yer pa and ma.
But then, 'course you can't expect Et you'll always have yer way, So ye just as well reflect That there'll be a judgment day. An' you'd best prepare to meet it, Keep yer deeds within the law So that when ye pass deaths portals Ye can see yer pa and ma.
