[Vol11 | May 1924 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: A Half Century of Educational Progress]

A Half Century of Educational Progress.
Education has been a passion with the Latter-day Saints. This is true because eternal progress, according to their idea, is dependent in a large measure on both intellectual and spiritual attainments. In order to carry into the lives of the young people of the Church, the opportunities for a broad and well rounded education, the Church school system was established. Next year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Brigham Young University, the parent church educational institution.
For nearly half a century that institution, under the direction of such able educators and inspirational leaders as Karl G. Maeser, Benjamin Cluff, George H. Brimhall, and Franklin S. Harris, has been moulding the characters and directing the early activities of thousands of young men and women who have become some of the most prominent leaders in various ways in the intermountain region. Training for service and leadership has always been the aim of the institution.
Although the Brigham Young University is a Latter-day Saint institution, its doors have always been open to young people of every faith who have been willing to abide by the regulations of the institution. The policies of the Brigham Young University have always been so broad and liberal that the institution has been accepted as one of the great universities of the West. In fact, some of the best educators both East and West, have, in the past, at various times, identified themselves with the institution and have been so pleased with conditions that existed there that they have freely recommended the school until today the Brigham Young University is a member of some of the most exclusive College Associations in America. The work done at the parent Church school is of such a high character that inspectors from East and West have recommended that it be accepted at par in any of the larger institutions.
During the past two summers such well known educators as Dr. Charles E. Rugh, of the University of California; Dean Frederick E. Bolton, of the University of Washington; Dr. Charles Abram Ellwood, of the University of Missouri; Dr. Henry C. Cowles, of the University of Chicago, and other noted men have been regular teachers on the faculty of the institution. This coming summer such eminent men as Dr. David Snedden, professor of Education of Columbia University and a world famed authority on education; Dr. Henry C. Cowles, plant ecologist of the University of Chicago; Dr. Walter R. Smith, professor of
EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS 245
Educational Sociology, University of Kansas and president of the National Association of Sociology; Dr. Raymond L. Frandson, professor of Education, Dr. Merritt Y. Hughes, professor of English, and Dorothy B. Nyswander, all of the University of California, will be regular members of the faculty of the institution
DR. DAVID SNEDDEN Professor of Education, B. Y. U. Summer School
and will give regular courses for graduate and undergraduate credit. Besides these eminent faculty members there will be a number of other world characters on the lecture staff.
The Brigham Young University, as few institutions are able to do, keeps its finger upon the pulse of the intermountain region with the one idea in mind of being able to offer the particular


type of work that will be best suited to the needs of the people of its own territory. Service?complete and full?is the one slogan of the administration. Knowing that the people of the intermountain west are rather unusually interested in scriptures and religion, the institution has in the past brought such able
DR. MERRITT Y. HUGHES Professor of English, B. Y. U. Summer School
interpreters of the Bible and religious thought as Charles E. Rugh and Charles Abram Ellwood into its teaching force in order that world ideas of these great subjects might be had first hand. This summer Dr. Adam S. Bennion, one of the most inspirational and well trained interpreters of the Church, will teach courses in Bible literature. These courses will be of added interest because
EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS 247
they will have behind them the Latter-day Saint background.
To meet the needs of the intermountain school teacher a complete demonstration school will be established. In this school, which will be under the direction of Professor L. John Nuttall, a man of wide experience as a teacher and supervisor, various methods can be tried and difficult problems settled. This school will embrace all grades from the Kindergarten to the Junior High School.
The Brigham Young University, on account of its work in education, is coming more and more to be recognized as a very important educational laboratory. The site of the institution was selected because of its location in the heart of the state where it could be readily accessible to all, for in spite of all other conditions, statistics show that geography plays an important part in the educational progress of men, and the center of population according to U. S. statistics is in Utah county. A difference of only ten dollars in fares often times means the difference between graduating from college or dropping out during the high school period.
The natural features surrounding Provo, too, determined to a large degree the site of the parent Church institution. The adjacent magnificent mountains, rivers, and lakes all afford, so the founders thought, ideal opportunities for nature study and recreation. When we remember that of all the well known artists of Utah, a large percentage have been reared in Utah county under the influence of those mountains, lakes, and streams, and consider that a large portion of "Wild Life in Utah," the picture produced to advertise Utah's Great Outdoors was photographed within a very short radius of the Brigham Young University, it seems that their judgment has been vindicated.
That the work of their institution is being appreciated by the people is indicated by the gradual growth of the enrollment. The 1924 Summer school is expected to be one of the best ever offered at the institution and one of the largest from point of enrollment.
Our Thanks
The March issue of the Young Woman's Journal published a very much appreciated article under the caption of "Tributes to the Relief Society in Honor of the 82nd Anniversary of Its Organization." The Relief Society very greatly appreciates this tribute from the organ of the young women of the Church, for we feel sure that cooperation, not competition, is a fundamental law of growth. We are striving constantly to identify the interests of mother and daughter outside of the home and this is a step in the right direction. We are more than appreciative, indeed, we are deeply touched, by the tribute of President Martha Horne Tingey. It is just such intimate accounts that comprise our living history and that will embalm the ideals of the past to a time beyond the time in which we now are living. Sister Tingey's mother, M. Isabella Horne, was one of the pioneers of the Relief Society work, and she impressed its importance upon her daughter. Deep seated impressions of this nature, to which God has added his blessings, have helped materially to carry the work forward to its present hour of fulfillment.
We appreciate, also, the tributes from Tooele, Blackfoot, Sevier, Juarez, Weber, and Blaine stakes. These voices come from distances far apart, but they are of one accord, for they speak of the helpfulness of the organization in relieving distress of whatever name or nature it may be.
The present year is a year in which we have felt greatly favored because of the kindness of those with whom we are associating and cooperating. At Christmas time there was a veritable deluge of messages of good will from the stakes and missions. The issue of the Magazine had gone too far to include our thanks for Christmas and New Year greetings, in the January issue, consequently, we let it pass until such time as seemed favorable for the recognition of other courtesies. This seems to be the appropriate time.
As we go to press the General Board is in receipt of an invitation to attend a banquet, given by the stake presidents, in its honor, at the Hotel Utah, Thursday, April 3, at 7 p. M. The details of the banquet will follow in the next issue.