[Vol11 | August 1924 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Poetry | Title: Her Things | Claire Stewart Boyer]

Her Things
By Claire Stewart Boyer
For three long years she counted out her "things :" The frail wax lilies in the crisp glass case,
These were to go to Edgar.
In his childhood he had loved to gather buds
And leaves and flowers, first of all the Spring ;
So he must, have her choicest offering,
And when she lay-
Beneath the rounded earth,
Her lilies could bespeak her soul to him.
There was the old brass kettle :
It had come across the plains with handcarts,
It had held the precious drops
To save the lives of thirsting pioneers;
And lusterless and dented it could be
A symbol of her faithful servitude
To those she loved.
And one she knew would touch it lovingly,
Perhaps would fill it full of golden glow
And stand before it thinking of the heart
That left it;
So to Celia went the long loved thing of Brass.
Next was her box, her Chinese teawood box,
Filled with odd jewelry:
With earrings old and tarnished, hung with amethysts ;
A queer mosaic brooch and two old rings,
Her finery.
Now Sylvia, possessed of many dreams,
Would play with these gay remnants of the past
And make herself a rival of young queens,
And as she put them in the tiny drawers,
Her tears would fall in reverent memory
Of her who wore them last.
And so from day to day she put her things ;
This in the trunk for Edgar, with his father's books,
That in the box for Celia with the paisley shawl,
And such gay trinkets as her feather fan
Went into the chest for blithesome Sylvia.
She passed, her smile serene, her heart content;
For she had bound her life she thought to theirs —
Her things had been the links unbreakable.
Three long years went ;
And one grey day
A junk man who was known to all,
Picked from the ashes in a broken tub
An old brass bucket,
A demolished case of white wax lilies, and a box
And filled with tiny drawers of jewelry.
He blew the dust from off the lilies fair
And thought he saw a soul within them stir ;
He stroked the old brass bucket lovingly,
And when he pulled the tiny jewel drawers
And looked within,
His eyes' shone bright,
As if some queen had passed
And smiled at him.