[Vol11 | August 1924 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Olivia Pratt Driggs]
Olivia Pratt Driggs
Olivia Pratt Driggs, oldest daughter of Parley P. Pratt, was born in the city of Manchester, England, June 1, 1841. Her father, who was one of the first apostles in this dispensation, after providentially escaping from prison in Missouri, in 1839, where he with others had spent eight months without trial for their religion, went with other members of the Twelve to England the next year. They located in Manchester where her father commenced the publication of a periodical called the Millennial Star, which has continued until the present time. Parley P. Pratt was the first editor of this magazine. The beginning number was issued in May, 1840, and the following inspiring poem written by him especially for the introduction of this periodical appeared on its cover. It was also the first hymn printed in the L. D. S. Hymn book that was published at that time:
The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled! The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world.
The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth, divine; The glory, bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine.
The Gentile fullness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand; Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin; Shall in their promised Canaan stand.
Jehovah speaks! Let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live! His mighty arm is making bare, His covenant people to receive.


Angels from heaven, and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To bring her ransomed children home.
Upon learning that his family in New York was dangerously sick with scarlet fever, Brother Pratt, acting on the advice of the members of his quorum, returned to America. After their recovery he, again sailed for England, taking his family along, where it was understood he would remain for several years as editor and publisher, as well as to carry on missionary work. The group included his wife Mary Ann, her daughter, Mary Ann Stearns, by a former husband, his sons Parley and Nathan, and his wife's sister, Olive Frost. After a long and tiresome voyage, they landed at Liverpool in October, 1840. These two sisters, Mary Ann Pratt and Olive Frost, were the first missionary women in this dispensation to cross the ocean in the interest of the Church.
Manchester now became the family home, and it was while
OLIVIA PRATT DRIGGS 387
