[Vol11 | August 1924 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Conference on Prevention of Causes of War]
Conference on Prevention of Causes of War
The following letter written to Mrs. Susa Young Gates, by Mrs. Emma Ray McKay, is self-explanatory:
Liverpool, May 16, 1924.
Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Salt Lake City, Utah.
My dear Sister Gates:
Your letter asking me to be a delegate to the International Convention of Women, at Wembley, came as a great surprise. I was delighted, though, and when a few days later a letter arrived from Lady Aberdeen inviting me very cordially to attend the convention, I wrote my acceptance. I want to thank you for this wonderful opportunity; it far excelled my expectations. The talks were all worth while and most of them especially fine and well delivered.
An invitation has just been handed me to attend a reception given to "Overseas Visitors" at International House, Gower St., London. This would be another interesting experience, but I do not know whether I can make it.
The exhibition at Wembley is an excellent one, especially the exhibitions of Canada, Australia, and West Africa. We had not much time for sightseeing between meetings and rushed away immediately after the closing of the convention; but we had a hurried view of most of it and enjoyed every thing immensely.
In Durham House we are house-cleaning, papering, etc., with all their accompanying joys. A dry day has been looked for longingly that we might have our carpets beaten but not until today has the sun shone warmly. And even today the clouds had to loosen up a bit.
Again with many thanks for your kind thoughtfulness, I am,
Very lovingly, Emma Ray McKay.
REPORT
During the week of May 2-8, 1924, the special Conference on Prevention of the Causes of War, organized by the International Council of Women in co-operation with the World Alliance for Promoting Friendship Through the Churches, The World's Young Woman's Christian Association, and the World's Christian Temperance Union, took place at the British Empire Exhibition, at Wembley, England, near London.
"This was intended as a call to women all over the world to realize their power to remove the causes of war and to realize as well their personal responsibility in this matter."
The Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, who presided over this conference and who has attended many women's conventions, declared that she "knows no convention that has reached the high standard that this convention had reached."
The list of speakers included forty-eight eminent men and women from foreign lands. Among them were the Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, President of the International Council of Women; Signora Chiaraviglio-Giolitti, delegate from the National Council of Italy; Dr. Nitobe, Assistant Secretary of the League of Nations; Dr. Rene Sand, Secretary General, League of Red Cross Societies; Baroness Mannerheim, President International Council of Nurses; Miss Cornelia Sorabji, representing India; Miss Christitch, representing Jugo-Slovakia; Madame Romniciano, Secretary, Union Mondiale de la Femme; Madame Avril de Ste. Croix, Vice-President, I. C. W.; Mlle. Mundt, International Labour Office; Mrs. Horace Parsons, Corresponding Secretary N. C. W. of Canada; Herr Adolf Kunz, Counsellor, Austrian Legation; Dr. Arthur Bestor, President of Chautauqua, U. S. A.; Madame Clara Guthrie d'Arcis, President Union Mondiale de la Femme; Madame Malaterre-Sellier, Vice-President, Union Francaise pour le Suffrage des Femmes; Professor Gilbert Murray, M. A., Chairman, Executive Committee, League of Nations Union; Viscountess Astor, M. P.; The Rt. Rev., The Lord Bishop of Oxford; and a number of other prominent men and women representing various organizations, colleges, and universities throughout Great Britain.
The hall was decorated with the flags of all nations, each one attached to a background of blue?the dark blue representing the international idea. Above the flag was the word, "Pax," and above that was the "Dove of Peace." These flags stood all around the walls of the room and against the pillars as well. They were very impressive.
Much stress was laid upon the necessity of a better understanding among nations and upon suggestive ways and means whereby this may be accomplished. Some of the most important ways and means are these:
1st. "The interchange of students is one of the greatest means of preventing war," and in order that there may be interchange of many students, there should be a reduction of railway fare, passports made less expensive, living expenses reduced, and certificates and diplomas standardized.
2nd. There should be an interchange of post-graduates and international club houses where post-graduates may live, as, e. g., the Crosby House in London. The financial question is here
PREVENTION OF CAUSES OF WAR 411
again the difficulty.
3rd. There should be interchange of teachers and professors of universities. This requires no money except traveling expenses because the teachers volunteer for one year. There are at present one hundred Canadian teachers in London.
4th. "We must acquire an international mind" that we may understand the language, customs, and religions of other peoples. "Ignorance of others brings arrogance and dislike, and dislike causes war." We must study individualities for the good of the whole.
5th. "Junior Red Cross with its international correspondence and Junior Magazines is one of the greatest assets of peace we have."
6th. "Peace can be established only on the basis of social justice,"
7th. "The minds of people must be adjusted. There are misunderstandings due to economic causes, attainments of raw materials, investments, etc. Since people live in about the same way everywhere, there should be a standardization of living."
8th. "Drink is an international danger. Drink does not make for peace. We are going to stop war not by talking peace but by living peace. More money can be made by making grapes into raisins than by turning them into wine. Taverns in Great Britain are frequented by four thousand men a week. In twenty-five years the drink bills of the world would pay all the debts of the world."
9th. There should be an international plan whereby women might be helped all over the world especially in regard to the problem of their employment during the responsibility of motherhood. "All women want courage, happiness and safety."
10th. An international public health policy is necessary.
11th. "The failure of any nation to adopt humane conditions of labor is an obstacle in the way of other nations which desire to improve conditions in their own countries."
12th. "International agreement is needed against opium and drugs. In 1908, India and China decided to stop raising opium. India has kept its word. China did for a while but has now reverted to the raising of opium." There is need of a higher sense of honor among governments.
13th. "Treaties or agreements or obligations should be made known to the people where they are made and should be revised periodically."
14th. "The cost of armaments is the direct cause of war, Sixty per cent of our money is paid out for war services. The very existence of armament brings war." It is said that every war office on the globe is, however reluctantly, preparing for the


next world war, and that, while the war regime lasts, any international complication may precipitate it. It was further stated that the next world war will be appalling, immeasurably more destructive and more horrible than the last, paralyzing our civilization for perhaps centuries to come.
15th. "Prevention must be based on spiritual conception. Christianity is not a failure. Christianity has never been tried. Christianity as it has been used is like a man fighting in battle with one hand behind his back." We must walk in the light of the Lord, live up to the standards of the Christian church and be a community actuated by the idea of mutual service. "Women may prevent war if they look into the causes of it, and in decency, kindness and honor put forth an effort to remove them. To know these causes, more light must be thrown upon legislation. Governments are inhuman and do many iniquities in the dark. Light should penetrate the dark places. If women were told more, they would understand more and accomplish more." "Women must travel to get an intimate knowledge of the rivalries and jealousies of people. Young women should use their university training for commerce, trade and finance to help settle economic disputes." "Mothers must think peace, talk peace, and teach peace to their children by not buying guns, cannons, soldiers and other war playthings, but playthings that will encourage thoughts of peace. There is virtue in thinking good things, there is degradation in thinking evil things." "Women must stand up for an international court of justice and join hands to erect the stronghold of peace."
I have given this brief summary merely to give an idea of the trend of the subjects treated at the thirteen sessions of the convention. Later, I hope to send you a verbatim copy of the addresses given. I attended every session but one, conference at Birmingham preventing me from being present at the public meeting. I enjoyed every meeting. The addresses were excellent, uplifting and highly instructive. With one thing I am more deeply impressed than ever; and
that is the potency and power of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints to deal successfully with the great problems
presented for solution by these leaders of world organizations.
A number of them we have already solved or are solving them.
Take for example the interchange of study and interchange of
peoples. What better opportunity for studying languages, customs
and ideas of peoples can be found than that afforded by our
missionary system ! Our young men go to all parts of the world.
They harbor no prejudices, they ha^e no people, they have no
PREVENTION OF CAUSES OF WAR 413
selfish ends to serve. They go in love and thereby engender
love.
So we might apply our social system free from class distinction;
and our economic system, so full of opportunities and
avenues for mutual service. Really, the only real solution of the
problems in the minds of many of the speakers lies in the acceptance
of nations and individuals of the Christ principles.
As one of the speakers said, "We must think peace, speak
peace, and teach peace, to our children. We must fire the children
with the belief in the greatness of their destiny, in being the
generation that will cause wars to cease, by making effective the
principles of the Sermon on the Mount, between nations as between
individuals."
