Habit Formation in Later Childhood and Youth By Milton Bennion N the September issue of this magazine we stressed the importance of habit training in infancy and early childhood. We also noted the dependence of this period upon prenatal nurture and heredity endowment. Training in later childhood must rest upon all of these. It must seek to perpetuate and further develop all the valuable habits and tendencies thus far acquired, and to develop such new habits as are suitable to this stage of child growth. Those responsible for this training must take account of child nature and its laws of development, on the one hand, and of the nature of society and the goals toward which it is striving, on the other. The goal of training in habit formation can be attained only through harmonizing the highest good of the individual with the corresponding good of society and through striving to realize both. Account should also be taken of the fact, as already indicated, that what a person is at any particular time is, for the most part at least, the outcome of his original nature and his experiences of the past. In other words, character is a gradual growth and is all the time in 'process of formation. As the individual develops, however, his character itself becomes more and more a factor in determining its own future development. Thus the power of self-determination is all the time increased and the determining power of external circumstances is diminished. External controls are gradually giving way to internal controls. This is one source both of weakness and the strength of moral training in later childhood and youth. The weakness is expressed in the old adage: "Let the child run until he is seven and you never catch him." Why? Because he is less subject to external controls among which are parental influence and other agencies for moral growth. Furthermore, if he has been allowed to run wild he will be lacking in the stabilizing influence for self-determination that comes with the formation of personally and socially valuable habits in infancy and early childhood. The strength of the case for training in later childhood is that, beginning now, appeal may be made to the child so to develop his powers of self-control and self-direction as to contribute to the common good both of himself and of others. He may, furthermore, be led to visualize the future and to see something of the relation of present acts to future attainment. Thus the moral imagination begins to function; it may become one of the most powerful factors for moral growth. By the time the child enters the elementary school he should have acquired habits of regularity in eating, both as to times and as to kinds of food and drink. He should likewise have established habits of regularity, of sleep, of physical and mental exercise, of personal cleanliness (including elimination), and of other safeguards to his health, such as precautions against infections and decay of teeth. There should, of course, be constant follow up training in case of each of HABIT FORMATION these sets of habits, while some new habits and others in process of formation may receive major attention. Among these are the following: The habit of accepting responsibility for his own acts. It is not uncommon to hear a child try to shift this responsibility to someone else. This is natural in view of his earlier training if he has been taught to do as he is told. The habit of obedience to parents is, at this stage, sometimes transformed into obedience to other persons, attributing to them the responsibility for whatever is done. When a child's action in obedience to parents proves to be wrong the responsibility rightly belongs to the parents. The same is true of the teacher in the elementary - school. In case of many children obedience to parents and teachers has been stressed above all else. This, it will readily be seen, contributes little toward developing the sense of personal and social responsibility. The child's responsibility is restricted to being accountable for doing as he is told. It is not extended to responsibility for the consequences of his conduct, so long as he is obedient to these authorities. 'Yet the assumption of responsibility for these consequences is one of the chief cornerstones of personal character. The structure of character, figuratively speaking, cannot go up without it. In what ways may the habit of assuming responsibility be developed? The simple, categorical answer is, "By having him do it." Our problem however remains, "By what ways and means?" One of the most universally available means is that of the assignment of regular tasks to be performed without having to be further told or instructed—something that the child should do thereafter on his own initiative and by such means as he 557 may devise, but always responsible for results. In case the job is not done or the results not satisfactory, pleasures and privileges that usually follow should be automatically withheld. Thus the principle that satisfactions should follow right conduct and the opposite should follow wrong conduct is applied. This is the basic principle in animal training. It is very important in child training. As character develops, however, the rewards and punishments may become more remote and also more subjective. External rewards gradually give place to internal or mental satisfactions; external punishments to remorse of conscience or, at least, to mental dissatisfactions. Until these come into the life of the child or the youth, external rewards and punishments should be continued. Let this, however, not be interpreted as recommending spankings or the use of the rod. Even animals can be trained by less violent means. In addition to the opportunities for training in responsibility for one's acts in the home there are also available opportunities for training in community work. This is true in some degree of later childhood but in marked degree in youth. The habit of assuming responsibility for community life is one of the most important qualifications for the highest type of citizenship; yet one scarcely ever sufficiently emphasized. Various boys' and girls' organizations lend themselves very readily to this type of training; among these are, the Boy Scouts, the Girl Scouts, the Junior Red Cross, and the junior organizations of the various churches. Every boy and girl should be affiliated with one or more of these organizations, and should be trained to participate actively in some form of social work 558 for which he may be held responsible. D URING the period of later childhood there should be gradual transition from emphasis upon personal obedience to emphasis upon self-control and self-direction. This change is imperative in the period of youth. To develop this habit it is mecessary that the child be given opportunity in this line. Providing such opportunity is sometimes called the process of mental weaning. Unfortunately there are parents who do not know what this means; there are others that do not appreciate its importance. Mothers, as a rule, are more given to this offense than are fathers. There are mothers who cannot let go of their children, who mever can quite realize that their fondlings ever grow up. An older child who continues, in this sense, to be a mama's darling is most unfortunate; a youth is, by this means, almost ruined; while an adult, under these conditions, must choose between rebellion and migration, on the one hand, and utter ruin, on the other. Any parent who really loves his child should permit him to grow up. This means that the child shall be encouraged to acquire the power of self-control and_ self-direction, another essential corner stone of character. Acquisition of this power may involve making some mistakes. If, however, the process of training in this habit is begun early the mistakes may be less disastrous and more easily forestalled in the future. 'Let the period of experimentation come while parental guidance is still easily available in case of need, and the child more easily susceptible to parental counsel. It may be noted that in many homes nowadays there is a heavy strain upon the loving parent of the modern youth with his strange mixRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ture of dependence and independence. His dependence on home for food, shelter, spending money, and personal comforts is much more marked in the present day youth than was the case of the youth of a generation ago. On the other hand, his independence of opinion, and his resentment of suggestions that would fain curb the youth's ways of having a good time are the causes of many parental heartaches. The mother who has to lend assistance in a dozen ways to get her boy off to school on time cannot understand his independence in borrowing the family car without permission and yoy-riding most of the night. All of which brings us to consideration of the next important topic; namely, the habit of having regard for the welfare of others. Without the addition of this habit that of self-direction is without moral value. By nature and habit the child may be so absorbed in his own purposes that he may overlook the effect of his activities upon others. His attention should be drawn, in kindly spirit, on suitable occasions, to any such oversights. One of the troubles in child training in the home is that all too often trespass upon the rights of others is met by resentment and counter irritants that tend to forestall the possibility of reasonable and friendly consideration of the problems at issue. Thoughtfulness and kindly consideration for others does not, as a rule, develop in such an atmosphere. On the other hand the ability of the one disturbed or injured to face the situation calmly and rationally tends to bring forth a like attitude in the one causing the disturbance or injury.. It is in these matters especially that the habit should be cultivated of foreseeing the possible consequences of what one is doing, and making this foresight of consequence a factor in de- HABIT FORMATION termining conduct and of stimulating a keen sense of responsibility for these consequences. This goal is scarcely attained by many well meaning adults. The only hope of its being generally realized lies in beginning early the formation of this habit. Training in the process, to be successful, will have to be in part at least through thoughtful conversations with young people, conversations that will lead them to see for themselves the consequences of various types of conduct and to cultivate in themselves the habit of visualizing before acting the possible consequences of what they do. In this connection the feeling element is also a strong determining factor. This may be most difficult to manage. It is well known, however, that feeling responds to feeling, if not to reason. Feeling for the welfare of others on the part of a youth is, therefore, stimulated by manifestation of this feeling toward him. As to the relative importance of feeling and thought in determining conduct, phychologists differ. Some recent experiments, however, seem to uphold the opinion of William James, expressed a generation ago; namely, that thought is one of the most potent factors in determining conduct. It is generally recognized that thought is more easily and more directly controlled than is feeling. Professor James would say keep the mind thinking about kindly deeds and you will reap kindly actions. It is quite certain that this plan will be helpful in forming the habit of consideration for the welfare of others. (PLOSELY akin to regard for the welfare of others is the habit of feeling and of expressing gratitude for kindnesses received. Children 559 are especially prone to accept favors from parents as nothing more than their due and to manifest no sense of gratitude in return. Parents can mever secure this gratitude by demanding it; they may more easily, however, stimulate the habit of gratitude by conversations with their young people in regard to favors they have received from others, and the means whereby they may express their appreciation. This may be by giving respectful attention to the Sunday School teacher, the scout leader, or other unpaid, volunteer workers with young people. Gratitude involves recognition of the merits of others; this recognition may be extended to the habit of good will toward the fortunate as well as toward the unfortunate. Such habits of thought and feeling are the most powerful factors in leading to commendable actions. A> to whether one looks upon the bright or upon the dark side of life is also largely a matter of habit; either one may be cultivated early in life. In determining which it shall be, home influence is probably the major factor. In case father and mother are appreciative of all the good that comes to them and uncomplaining about the evil their example will be contagious, as its opposite would also be. Yet there are cases where the youth develops the pessimistic habit in spite of parental example to the contrary. This sometimes comes about through ill-health. In other cases, however, it seems to be the consequence of over-indulgence; that is, a parental habit of doing too much for the youth, doing 'for him what he should have the habit of doing for himself. The youth thus indulged and free from responsibilities may get the habit of over-reflecting upon his own likes 560 and dislikes, and especially upon what he would like to have that he hasn't got, and why father and mother do not provide it. Thus develops a self-centered habit of mind, a habit of ungrateful dependence upon parents for all economic needs. This habit of mind is quite sure to lead to a selfish and negative attitude toward society. On the contrary, a youth who has been trained in all the other good habits here enumerated will normally develop a wholesome outlook upon life. A person who is absorbed in the pursuit of worthy causes, causes that have to do with accomplishment of ends quite beyond himself, develops the objective type of mind. His merely personal wants become lost in his objective accomplishments, which in turn, commonly provide means to meet his personal needs. There is then no-need of his helplessly leaning upon others. One with this habit of mind is more inclined to think of helping than of being helped. The joys of life come to him in large measure through his helping activities. Thus he realizes the truth of that notable saying of Jesus, "It is more blessed to give than to receive." Realization of this truth in practice is the surest guarantee against a pessimistic habit of mind; hence the value of training young people in thoughtfulness for the welfare of others and the habit of doing something about the house. The 'foundation of these habits should be laid in the home, where each member should be trained to have thought for the welfare of each and every other member of the household. A father may well converse privately with sons and daughters about their mother's needs, and as to how they may contribute to her health and happiness by acts of kindRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ness and helpful service. These conversations should, of course, lead to definite conclusions and plans of action to realize the desired goals. 'This may involve definite assignment of household duties, a sharing of these duties by each member having the necessary strength and degree of maturity. This again may involve, as a matter of business efficiency, the budgeting of the time of each member old enough to participate in home responsibilities. 'These members of the household may also very well be informed as to the nature and condition of the 'family financial budget. By this means they may develop a rational attitude toward family finance and become quite willing to earn their own pocket money, and, as they mature, to acquire the habit of providing their own clothing or other necessity. This type of independence is an important factor in developing men and women, and in creating a wholesome attitude toward life. A youth thus trained is also more likely to take a rational view of parental counsel than is the youth who in economic matters is wholly dependent. Concentration upon realization of the habits thus far enumerated leads, by implication, to the exclusion of undesirable habits, to the dangers of which youth is sometimes exposed. A youth who has acquired the habit of thinking of the consequences of the various types of conduct that may come to his attention, and who appreciates the joys of positive accomplishments, both in his own development and in the service of others, will not knowingly and willingly indulge in formation of habits that hinder realization of life's 'purposes. Among these habits are: the use of intoxicating beverages, the use HABIT FORMATION of narcotics and stimulants, sexual immoralities, untruthfulness, or other forms of dishonesty. The most efficient methods of habit training will, by emphasis upon development of the good, generally forestall formation of any such detrimental habits. Yet there are times when a little sane, well-informed conversation about the consequences of evil habits that youth may observe in others, and may himself be tempted to form, will be quite helpful. It is, of 'course, much better that precautions against evil practice be taken before formation of such habits is under way. Neither parents nor teachers should lean too heavily upon the protection which the law is presumed to afford. The surest protection to youth is inner fortification against evil which comes only through adequate understanding of the facts involved, thoughtfulness in regard to the consequences, keen appreciation of the ultimate values of life, a sense of obligation to fellowmen, and regard for the highest good of all. It is by this means that evil may be overcome with good. I1I—Summary of Principles Relating to Habit Training ERE repetition of an act may not create a habit. So long as this repetition is due to external compulsion there is no guarantee of formation of the habit. The practice may cease as soon as external compulsion is removed. 'External compulsion should, there- 'fore, be replaced, as soon as possible, with development of adequate motives in the mind of the child or youth; or the activity should bring satisfactions that will lead to regularity in performance without external compulsion. Those responsible for training the 561 immature should never overlook the fact that in later childhood and youth there is gradual passage from external to internal control. This is very marked and complete in the period of youth. Habit formation, to be effective, must, therefore, be accompanied by acquisition of adequate knowledge of the rational justification of the habit and by the formation of appropriate attitudes and ideals. "These processes can never be forced. Proper attitudes and ideals develop by various means, among which are parental example, satisfactory personal relations both within and without the family, properly selected reading and recreation, and intelligent conversations at appropriate times relating to personal and social ideals and ait ments." A major purpose to keep in mind in the training of older children and youths is to overcome the tendency to be self-centered, self-conscious, pessimistic, or self-indulgent. This may best be accomplished by formation of habits that lead youths to be objectively minded; that is, to be interested in things and causes quite beyond themselves, to observe nature with its manifold wonders and possibilities when brought into the service of man; to study history and in particular the history of civilization that they may appreciate how this social order of the present has come into being; to look out upon this social order as it is; to contemplate its future possibilities and to realize that each youth of today has a responsibility and an opportunity to be a factor in helping to bring about a better social order, as well as to perpetuate the best that mow is. Such an outlook will cause the youth to transcend his own narrow limits and to realize his greater personality in identifying himself with the good and the service of all.
