Turn About By Ivy Williams Stone Y nine o'clock on a lovely April morning Mrs. Ellen Mower had finished all her morning tasks, and settled herself to do some worthwhile self culture. She had reached that time in life where some * suppressed desires could be gratified. The hectic days of being laundress and seamstress, cook and nurse, playmate and teacher, were past. The once over-crowded darning basket was empty; there were no eager little hands to reach into the cookie jar; she no longer rose at dawn to wash nor ironed far into the night: Her five, eager, active babies had grown into men and women with babies and domestic problems of their own. Mrs. Mower felt that, with father on a simple diet, she could enjoy a well earned leisure. She had joined a literary club. In calm prospective she saw her declining years filled with cultural activity. The things she had always wanted to do were now possible. She need not become a dull, drab, unlettered old lady with no contacts with life. "Suttee: India's Deplorable Practice of Widow Burning." Mrs. Mower looked at her initial line with satisfaction, but somehow the subject did not fit the morning. The mild April sunshine did not seem kin to the sweltering heat of far away India. The odor of hyacinths and daffodils did not suggest a funeral pyre. On such a glorious morning it seemed incongruous that in a distant heathen country a widow —perhaps a mother—should offer up her life because her husband had died. - But the club president had assigned the subject, and Mrs. Mower felt she had a reputation to make.; "Suttee is the name given to a Hindu practice of voluntary death by fire, regarded as evidence of great wifely devotion." Mrs. Mower read the line aloud to an imaginary audience and leaned back with disgust. "Due to the vigilance of the British soldiers, the ceremony must be conducted with the greatest secrecy. The victim adorns herself with borrowed jewels, rides in state to the chosen spot, amid the plaudits of the villagers." "Suttee,' scoffed Mrs. Mower in disgust, "I never heard of such a dreadful, barbaric custom. Whatever becomes of the children? With their father dead, they need their mother all the more." She chewed the rubber from her pencil, broke off the point. While her brain floundered for more descriptive adjectives, the back screen slammed and her daughter Lucille hurried in, breathless and perspiring. She sank into a chair, her thin, wiry body taut with eagerness. "Mother, I have the most wonderful plan! I'm not going to Chicago with Tom, as I'd planned. Ive seen all those places, and I've arranged for the boys to go instead. 'While they're gone, I'm going over to clean house for Agnes!" "Did Agnes invite you?" queried Mrs. Mower dubiously. A vision of the slack Agnes giving such a task to her zealous sister was disquieting. "Agnes clean, house?" smiled Lucille. "I guess not. She never really cleans; she just wipes off the 568 high spots. Mother, I sometimes wonder how two such different women as Agnes and I could possibly be sisters." "Perhaps Agnes same thing." "Agnes and the children are going on summer location with Jack," Lucille preferred to ignore her wonders' the mother's gentle irony, "they intend' to close the house, and I'll have a wonderful opportunity to work. I ran over last night to take her some extra nice cream puffs and Agnes said, 'Your cookies look nice!' And can you imagine what they were doing?" Lucille's face became animated with joyous anticipation at telling a truth that seemed incredible. "The dinner dishes were still on the table. The entire family were outside, where Jack had a stepladder on top of a work bench. He was draping a tarpaulin over that precious cherry tree, for fear it might freeze the blossoms. He was in grave danger of breaking his neck. The doctor's bill would buy a ton of cherries!"" "Is it a Bing or a Napoleon?" asked Mrs. Mower mischievously. "Cherries are only cherries to me, I can't tell one kind from another. The tree is so close to the house that the noisy robins would send me distracted. And when they had completed that ritual it was too dark to work outside, so they all came in to eat. Their supper was milk and baker's doughnuts. Then the whole family turned in and washed up an accumulation of dishes. My family had spinach, veal cutlets, hot biscuits and cream puffs. I tell you, Mother, people are talking about the way Agnes neglects her house."' Lucille wore a virtuous expression. "Last fall they talked about her wonderful flower display at the fair," added Mrs. Mower. "I'd be i RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rather cautious," she continued, feeling that the courage of the Hindu women was insignificant beside this daring of one daughter to march upon the domain of another. "Cautious! I'll make that house over. I'll empty the sink of dishes, bleach her dish towels, iron her sheets. I'll empty those vases of withered flowers that litter every room. There's a spider's web in the north-east cofner of the basement window that my fingers itch to sweep down. The little closet under the stairs is crammed full of empty paper bags; sacks that held innumerable doughnuts and cinnamon rolls and baker's bread. It's a fire trap; wonder they're not cremated!" | - Mrs. Mower felt her important paper on India was not life. She forgot the value of personal leisure. The combined needs of all her five babies had been nothing compared to this daring scheme on the part of the determined Lucille. Agnes would be angry, aggrieved and hurt, but it was useless to argue. Chicago had no lure to take Lucille away from the joy of making over her sister's household. After a few more explanations she departed, righteous service showing in every one of her energetic steps. After their simple'mid-day luncheon, Mrs. Mower again started to complete her paper. The occasion was auspicious. Her first appearance on the program meant so much to her future in the club. ' If her paper "went over," she would receive flattering compliments, the correctly gowned president would call upon her, and Mrs. Mower's social future would be assured. She would not drift into senile old age, knowing only the activities of her children and grandchildren. If Lucille was determined to precipitate trouble bv TURN ABOUT meddling with Agnes' affairs, she would have to take the consequences. When your children married, you were certainly privileged 'to 'stop worrying over them. "The practice ls exceedingly old and is accompanied with mystic rituals. The villagers turn out en nuasse—"' The front screen opened cautiously and Agnes peered in, looking intensely relieved at sight of her mother. She sat by the open window and turned her palms upward so Mrs. Mower could see the earth stains. "T've been weeding," she laughed, "but it got rather warm, so I came over to tell you of my inspiration." She settled herself comfortably, while her mild, even tones blended with -the promise'. Of plumpness which her figure suggested. "T'm not going on summer location when Jack goes, Mother. He'll be there all summer and I'll get enough of it by going later. He and the girls can stop at the hotel for two weeks. I'm going to stay over that long and make Lucille a garden!" "Merciful Heavens!" Mrs. Mower almost stuttered, and the sheets on Hindu customs fluttered to the floor. "T knew it would surprise you!" Agnes smiled complacently. "But Lucille and the boys are going to Chicago with Jack, and while they're gone I shall remove the pretense of lawn and flowers which they have planted, and do some landscape gardening. That beautiful home of theirs is deserving of better grounds. Do you know, Mother," Agnes leaned forward in her eagerness, "do you realize their lawn is dying for lack of proper soil? No wonder it dries out, parches and dies. Do you know they planted cedar trees in sheltered, protected corners, and 569 everyone who knows anything at all, knows cedars must have wind? Lucille wonders why her pansies never get large and velvety like ours; she plants them on the south, against the cement wall. Yesterday I took her a bunch of my double narcissus and she said, 'what beautiful lilies!' It is an honest fact, Lucille and Tom can't distinguish between asters and chrysanthemums. They call all evergreen trees Christmas trees; to them flowers are merely things which smell nice. They consider time spent in a garden as wasted."; "Lucille's a wonderful cook and housekeeper,' defended Mrs. Mower. "Food," replied Agnes with dignity, "is a means of bodily sustenance. I eat to live." Mrs. Mower had a mental picture of the determined Agnes marching upon the neglected garden of Tom Rhead and re-making it according to her own ideals. She would be so engrossed, so filled with a sense of service that she would not even approach her own home until her allotted task was completed, knowing that the Spillsberry boy could be depended upon to care for their own garden. That morning Mrs. Mower had felt the women of India were brave beyond comparison. Now _ their courage dwindled into insignificance. Death by fire would, at least, be quicker than the disaster her two daughters were inviting. To change the home, to re-make the garden of another woman! It was preposterous! | the days that followed Mrs. Mower learned the inner meaning of the word strategy. As in the days when her children were small, leisure again became an unknown luxury. -Tom Rhead and his 'sons 570 left for Chicago, bound to secrecy but openly skeptical about the success of Lucille's plans. Jack Howard went to summer location as scheduled, feeling that even ten years of matrimony had not taught him women's moods. Mrs. Mower led a frenzied existence, worrying lest Lucille discover Agnes in her garden, lest Agnes find Lucille in her home. She carried daily provisions to Lucille every night; and every morning she stealthily took a like portion to her daughter Agnes. Like a conquering army Lucille marched upon the premises of Jack Howard. She did not see the graceful, lacy cut leaf birch tree which was the pride of the neighborhood. She did not see the symmetrical blue spruce which graced the back yard, nor the velvety lawn where no dandelion dared to sprout. The flowering catalpa and the tulip trees held no attraction for her. The Norway oak, whose seed acorn had lain two years before sprouting, did not seem unusual. A little, spindling evergreen, carefully guarded by trustworthy stakes and labeled "Sequoia Gigantea,' produced only the terse comment, "Another Christmas tree!" But she did see that the windows were a dull, faint gray; that in the haste of departure the sink was still full of dishes; the front porch. Light shade held the skeletons of last year's moths. Vases of withered flowers added an unpleasant odor to the house. The fringe on the parlor rugs had come unsewed; the magazine rack was cere with old numbers; the piano so dusty that Lucille stalked righteously over to it and wrote "DIRT" in bold, defiant letters. One corner of the parlor was piled high with newspapers, while the' bathtub held a huge Bes of unironed clothes. ' RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE "T suppose I can be grateful they're not damp and left to mold," cried Lucille indignantly.: "That Spillsberry boy can lend me a hand. Ill build a fire with all these newspapers and paper bags and while I'm in the basement Ill sweep down that spider web. I can't tolerate spiders!" -For ten days she worked at high tension, begrudging the time necessary to eat the food which her mother provided. Soap and polish, varnish and paint were her daily companions; vacuum and brushes, mops and brooms were her implements of warfare. The breakfast nook changed from pale grey to a vivid green. The bath room walls became a smallpox yellow. Gay shelf paper adorned the kitchen cupboards. The Spillsberry boy was kept so busy beating carpets and polishing floors that he had scant time for the garden. Lucille polished and re-arranged all the furniture, cleaned wall paper until the whole house was spotless. She lived strictly within the house, intent only upon her one objective. While her sister stayed within four walls, Agnes Howard gazed over Tom Rhead's heterogeneous garden and planned her line of attack. "That maple is still young enough to move, it's too close to the house. They should have known better than to plant a mother boxelder, the seeds will scatter for miles. The lawn must be fertilized and the dandelions are thicker than the grass. Those poor hydrangeas are worm eaten and the elm trees must be sprayed. The peony buds must be covered with bags before it gets too hot. The privet hedge needs pruning; the pansies must be transplanted farther from the house, 'and there are weeds everywhere! I'll have to work hard TURN ABOUT and fast to have the place looking as it should when they return from Chicago. I'll put a miniature lake in the center of the back lawn— water lilies will look beautiful there." During the following days she worked side by side with two gardeners. The sun was never too hot, or her body too weary for the allotted tasks. The days were far too short. Under her practised eye the hedges leaved out after pruning; the elms found new life in the spray, the daffodils and narcissus really bloomed, on tall, graceful stems. Since it was early in the season, Agnes watered everything unstintedly. She was so eager to sleep at dusk in order to rise at dawn, that she scarcely noticed the food her mother brought, but fell into Lucille's guest bed unconscious of embroidered sheets and down quilts. The clarity of the windows made it necessary to draw blinds. The dainty muslin curtains gave her no thrill. The highly polished floors were a menace to safe walking. She was unaware that the shiny linoleum had been polished with milk, and the lustre of the tiled bathroom seemed cold and repellant. The absence of - potted plants and vases of cut flowers gave her a distinct shock. The methodical precision that marked the arrangement of cupboards and closets seemed a waste of time. To Agnes Howard, accustomed to com-. Fortable untidiness, the spotless order of the entire house created a sense of uninviting stiffness. "It makes me feel like I dare not sit down!" she mused. "Never saw anything so poison clean in all my life. It's too tidy to live in." It was almost time for the important paper on Hindu widow burning. Mrs. Mower had been too disturbed over the activities of her 571 daughters to study the references. The outcome of their queer venture was still unsettled; it was inevitable that they would meet, for Tom Rhead was soon due home. It seemed so unreal to be studying foreign customs with life pulsing at her elbow. Everyone knew that to suttee meant voluntary death by fire. Only pagan people would do such a horrible thing. By sheer force of will, however, Mrs. Mower forced herself to the task of writing her paper. She spread out her sheets, bit her pencil, puckered her brows and began to write. "The British Government. Has been so untiring im its efforts to suppress this lamentable practice that—" The front screen opened unceremoniously and Lucille dashed in, breathless, hatless and indignant. Her once white house dress held faint stains of green paint. "Some officious person has been making our garden over!" she gasped. ' "They changed all our grounds. They've made a pond where Tom was planning a miniature golf course." She was still talking when the back screen slammed and Agnes appeared, her hands stained with dandelions, her sun hat much battered, her shoes caked with mud. "Mother," she began, blinking her eyes against the subdued light, "some uninvited person has cleaned my house. They've re-arranged all the furniture; they've burned those newspapers I was saving so carefully; the whole place smells of varnish and polish and paint. My breakfast nook is ruined with a gaudy green paint!" In her agitation her voice became excited, and then she saw Lucille and the paintstained house dress. 572 "T thought you were in Chicago!" gasped Agnes. "T thought you were in the forest with Jack," countered Lucille, casting suspicious glances at Agnes' dandelion-stained hands. "You stayed home to clean my house!" accused Agnes. "You stayed home to make over our garden!" came the retort. "You burned my paper bags; you killed that rare spider we hoped to photograph; you put on that abominable paint." "You put bottles of wet flowers, I mean wet bottles of flowers on my polished tables and ruined the varnish. You made that old fashioned pond in our back lawn. What will we do for a golf course?" "Our Sequoia Gigantea is nearly ruined for lack of water,' wailed Agnes. "Those trees are rare. Some are still living that were saplings when Moses led the Children of Moses to freedom." "Did you know," Lucille tried to be satrical and failed, ''that we have a water meter? You let that hose run day and night. Do you intend to pay the bill?" "You took the Spillsberry boy to help you wash windows and rugs and curtains, and our garden is nearly dried up." "You cut a lemon on my sink," countered Lucille, "and it's eaten the enamel off." "You put that silly pink paper on the kitchen shelves," retorted Agnes, "and you moved everything in the house. I can't find a thing." "You dug those dandelions out of the lawn, and we loved them so; you trained that creeper thing—" "Boston ivy, to be exact," interrupted Agnes. "Well, whatever its name is, you trained it to go around the window frames, and we thought it so much RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prettier to let it seek its own course." "T doubt if another spider will ever build in that corner," said Agnes, dropping into a chair from sheer exhaustion. ''Here I've toiled for ten days to make you a beautiful garden, and you repay me by spoiling my house and letting my garden run to ruin." After this thrust Lucille also felt the need of a support. She sought a chair before she gave answer. "Here I've labored ten days to make your house livable and systematic, and you repay me by spoiling my tables with wet bottles and making a garden we did not want, and running up a bill." Agnes leaned toward Lucille; Lucille leaned toward Agnes. Agnes raised a forefinger that was stained with dandelions from her sister's lawn. Lucille raised a forefinger that was stained with paint from her sister's breakfast nook. "Nobody asked you to do it!' they cried in unison. Mrs. Mower lost all interest in the lives of Hindu widows. If unChristian people on the other side of the world wished to practice self extermination, that was their business. She was powerless to help. She did not care whether she made an impression on the Self Cultural Club or not. Breaking into the upper social circle held no attraction. She did not want leisure for self culture. But she did want the two 'women before her—her daughters, her one time babies, to lose their animosity. She pushed her penciled, interlined sheets on "'Suttee" into the waste basket. She began to laugh. "Girls—girls," she was almost hysterical. "I've been all fussed over your queer ventures. I've been watching each of you work yourself into a frenzy. Ag- TURN ABOUT nes making an unwanted garden for Lucille, and Lucille making Agnes's house uncomfortable for the folks who have to live in it. You're extremists—both of you. Also, you're throwbacks. Agnes is like her great-grandfather Mower. He planted a grove of pines when he was eighty years old. My father's mother was so clean her neighbors called her 'Pisen Priscilla.' It takes all sorts and conditions of people to make a world. I want you to kiss and make up." Mrs. Mower pushed their two chairs closer together. "YT might have known Agnes wouldn't appreciate my efforts. I ache all over from so much reaching and scrubbing." Agnes smiled complacently and retorted, "If you want to know what a real ache is, get down on your knees and dig dandelions." The hand that was stained with green paint reached out to the hand that was stained with dandelions. 573 "Never mind, Sis,'"' added Lucille, "T can re-varnish those tables. I hadn't done it for a month, so they needed it, anyway." "And the way we eat, Lucy," replied Agnes, "I can soon have another batch of paper bags saved up 1? For my peonies! Mrs. Mower had a visionary, faraway expression. She suddenly reached for one of the crumpled sheets of paper and began to write. "Here," she cried triumphantly, "Tf I can't write literary papers, I can compose poetry. Listen to this: Before you plan your neighbor's days And have him re-arrange his ways You'd better change your mind; For when you've told him what to do He's apt to come right back at you, And pay you back in kind! Let's eat; we haven't had a decent meal for two weeks!"
