[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: UNION. | Author: the St. Louis Kindergartners to visit-]

UNION. 

	THE International Kindergarten Union
met in St. Louis, April 21 22, and 23.
There were about 300 visiting and 300 resi-
dent teachers present making in all an enthu-
isastic gathering. Three sessions a day
were held, this including a reception given
by the St. Louis Kindergartners to visit-
ing teachers.
	The regular session did not take place
until Tuesday, but those fortunate enough
to be in St. Louis on Monday had the
pleasure of hearing the Baroness Bulow
read a paper on Froebel’s principles.—This
was of much value, as the Baroness’ aunt
was often quoted.
	The first day of the session of the I. K.
U. opened Tuesday afternoon and was set
apart for the discussion of the Relation of
the Kindergarten to the Home. Mrs. J.
N. Crouse of the Chicago Kindergarten
College was the first speaker; her talk was
practical and to the point. The necessity
of intelligent co-operation of Kindergarten
and home was urged.
	Miss Putnam of Chicago was to have
had a paper on “Freedom and Law in the
Home,” but was absent, also Miss Fitts of
Brooklyn who was to read a paper on
“Freedom and Law in the Kindergarten.”
	Prof. Louis Soldon, superintendent of
the St. Louis public schools, delivered the
address of welcome Tuesday evening, Miss
Lucy Wheelock President of the I. K. U.
responding. This was followed by a paper
on the ‘‘Relation of the Kindergarten to
Higher Education;” Col. Parker closing
the exercises with one of his enthusiastic
talks on ‘‘The Ideal School.” He said
when a girl or boy is through school we
should not ask how much have you
learned, but how much of a man or a wo-
man are you.
	Wednesday morning was devoted to a
business meeting in which various commit-
tees reported, also delegates were heard
from. There were representatives present
from Japan, Honolulu, New Orleans, New
York, Utah and many other states. It
was decided to hold the next meeting in
Philadelphia the time being changed from
May to February.
	The afternoon was devoted to a Froebel
birthday celebration. A reception had
been arranged by the resident Kindergar-
tners; hand shaking, marches and games,
followed with a paper by the Baroness
Bulow on the life of Froebel, after which
dainty refreshments were served.
	The drawing teachers met with the

[Column 2]
Kindergartners in the evening and were
gratified to hear such speakers as Paterson
Dubois of Philadelphia, editor of the Sun-
day School Times, followed by James L.
Hughes who spoke on Froebel and his
work. Prof. Hughes emphasized the fact
that the child developes as did the race by
slow stages. He said that was often over-
looked by parents and educators and much
injury was done the child; he also dwelt
on the careful training of the instincts of the
child, leading and guiding but not forcing
him in his mental growth. He dwelt
especially on the instinct of activity and
the care with which this should be guided
and led in the right direction.
	Thursday morning was devoted to re-
ports from Committees and the election of
officers, the old officers being re-elected.
Dr. Krohn, of the Child Study Monthly,
gave an address in the afternoon on the
results of child study. Several other
papers were given along this line of work,
Mrs. Hughes of Toronto closing with a
warning to Kindergartners not to take too
much of this work into the Kindergarten
as it kills the spirit.
	St. Louis the mother of the public school
Kindergartens in America has good cause
for her pride in her 68 public school
Kindergartens and her 300 teachers.
	With such a leader and trainer at the
head as Miss Mary McCullough what else
could one expect? Her earnestness and
interest in the work must influence all
who came in contact with her.
	The majority of Kindergartens have two
sessions a day with an enrollment in each
session, ranging in different Kindergartens,
from one hundred to one hundred and fifty.
Each child pays fifty cents a term for ten
weeks for material, and this reduces the
expenses and necessitates only an expen-
diture of room and salary. The salaries
range from twenty-five dollars to seventy
dollars, experienced teachers receiving the
latter. The practical work is good and
shows the result of experienced teachers.
	The only objection to these Kindergar-
tens is that children are not permitted to
enter early enough, the age being limited
to six years, but a movement is on foot to
enter them earlier.
A. C.


[Column 1]
