[Vol46 | July 1959 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
EDITORIAL c2O VOL. 


 NO. 7 Planning reer wlio for Children HEN the schools of the land close their doors for summer vacation, mothers may look forward to increased opportunity to supervise personally the activities of their children. 'To use this time to the best advantage is a responsibility for every mother, and one which merits careful and prayerful consideration in consultation with the father. In some rural communities it may not be so difficult to find rewarding training for children, but, in urban centers, it often poses a real problem to keep children busy in worthwhile activities. Yet each child needs to have assigned tasks to perform each day, whether it be housework, yard work, baby tending, or running errands — tasks which can supply a needed allowance and which will bring satisfactions in their accomplishment. In addition to tasks, mothers will wish to use the free time as a learning, training, and enrichment period in their children's lives. Some schools are now offering handicrafts to certain age groups and languages and science studies to older ones, but the general pattern of a summer vacation remains. However, most communities have summer playgrounds, and, for relatively modest fees, there are opportunities for children to engage elsewhere in music training, horseback riding, swimming, hobbies, dancing, and other interests. Latter-day Saint mothers are fortunate that the Primary provides summer activities and mothers Page 438 should see that their children receive this valuable training. One of the most rewarding plans is for a group of mothers to get together and plan activities for their children of similar ages. One mother may offer to teach the group sewing, another cooking, a third may take them for nature walks, or on camping parties, another help them to pass their scout tests or train them as a chorus. Where they may be taking swimming, one mother could do the chauffering for the group. There is no limit to these and other worthy activities that a group of mothers can plan and carry out for their children. As a reward for completing a course, a trip could be taken to a museum, a library, or local point of interest. Supervised activity by an adult with a group of children not only gives each child more of an incentive for learning but makes for better relationships among the children. But, in addition to experiences with children outside the family, a Latter-day Saint mother will welcome the added time with her children to cement family ties closer. A Family Hour before vacation begins could be devoted to planning summer activities for the entire family. Schedules could be drawn up of things in which each child is interested. The mother and father could outline books which they feel their children should learn to know and love, and incentives could be offered to older children to read EDITORIAL good books for themselves. Daily reading by a mother and occasional] reading with the entire family provide lasting memories of joyful occasions. Not only should children delight in the fantasy world of books, but care should be taken to have them know and love books telling of their Heavenly Father and his Son, and great spiritual leaders of the present and past. President Grant always gave credit to the prophet Nephi as a great influence on his life. If children are not introduced to great spiritual leaders when young, they will not have them as their heroes and models. This would seem especially necessary in view of some of the present types of entertainment which invade the very home and introduce un- 439 savory and even wicked characters. Summertime may be a joyous family experience if the mother in the home plans carefully for the interests of her children and _ sees that the plans go forward. 'To make a home where children feel free to bring their friends — in spite of the extra household work which it entails — tightens family ties. A mother who takes time to plan for and with her children from their earliest years and who enters into their everyday activitics, will encourage them to look upon her as an understanding friend as well as a loving mother, one to whom they will turn for counsel and advice as their experiences broaden and become a part of the stream of adult living. —M. C. S. First in the Valley For the Days of °47 Dorothy ]. Roberts The quaint rite of dawn's bell and blast are silenced, That memoried, once, your coming, pioneer. Yet, long since you came, homeless, stripped of treasure, I still count blessings you earned for me here. Never a summer deepens in the valley, With loud light breaking over window sills, But you emerge from time and covered wagon To part the circle of these western hills. July can never arch in azure zenith, But the lengthening shadow of your height Monograms our city with your stature, And I kneel solemn, prayerful in the night. Never this festive time held in your honor Moves unseen down my calendar of days; Against the sacrifice that marked your coming I test again the tenor of my ways. "WMlore Precious Shan Rubies. Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies.. She will do him good and not evil all the days Strength and honor are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to her husband doth safely trust in her... Of her life. Come ae 31:10-12, 25). More Precious - Than Rubies HE strength and the beauty of virtue have been treasured and found priceless over the long years of earth history — even from the time of the commandment in stone, the "words the Lord spake unto all lin the mount out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice. " Like all of the commandments of our Heavenly Father, the requirement of chastity results in many blessings and much comfort and peace of mind. Freedom from regret — the joy of obedience — reflect upon the personality and are indeed jewels of enduring radiance. The possessor of such treasure, though humble, may walk as a_ proud woman all the days of her life. Unhampered by feelings of guilt or disobedience, the way of her life becomes more blessed and more beautiful, and all her words and all The heart of her acts, in following the path of integrity, make of her life an undivided pathway to a far-reaching goal. And this goal of a woman's life is not hers alone, for none of us can truly say that her life belongs to herself alone and that her actions have no effect beyond the results which come to an individual. We know that we live in a family setting. We arc daughters with ideals in the circle of home, and with responsibilities toward our parents and our brothers and sisters. We share in the family honor, and we contribute to that integrity. And the woman in her own home, in that place of love and trust —where husband and children look to her for their ideals and their life pattern — there the jewels of her virtue are as a shining light unquestioned by her loved ones who safely trust her counsel and her example. For Latter-day Saints who understand that earth life is more than an interval between the premortal existence and the time until mortal death — for those who realize that they lived before their time upon the earth, and that thev will live forever afterwards, then the standards of the Church and the commandments of the Lord have amplified and eternal meaning. Even as Paul, the apostle, spoke to the Corinthians: "And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice with it" (I Cor. 12:26). BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 440 Recipes trom the Gulf States ITlission Submitted by Emma A. Hanks Texas BARBECUE SAUCF. Nicki Bell 1 medium-sized onion, chopped 7 tsp. Cayenne pepper 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 tbsp. Paprika "A c. Vinegar 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Tomato juice 1 tsp. Dry mustard "" c. Catsup "" tsp. Chili powder "2 ¢. Water. Mix together and simmer for fifteen minutes. This sauce is a zesty sauce to pour over tbs during the last forty-five minutes of baking. Recipe makes enough sauce for three pounds of ribs. Meat Loar anp Corn Pig Mrs. Henry Barber 1% lbs. Ground meat 1 bell pepper tsp. Salt 2 slices bread, tsp. Black pepper 7" o milk 1 egg ' square shortening Mix meat with salt and pepper. Then add egg, bread, and bell pepper which has been diced. Add milk and margarine which has been melted. Place meat loaf, which has been rounded well, into casserole. Sauce: "* c. Com meal 1 egg 7, tsp. Salt 7 square shortening 2 tbsp. Flour 1 No. 2 can whole kernel corn " tsp. Baking powder catsup to taste Mix flour, salt, and baking powder with corn meal. Then add shortening and egg which has been well beaten. Now add the corn and stir until it is of a very thin consistency. If the corn does not make it thin enough, add enough water to make it the nght consistency. Pour in casserole around the meat loaf. Bake in oven at 350° until done. If desired, add catsup to meat loaf just before it is done and brown slightly. Serve in casserole while it is hot. CotraGE CHEESE PIE 1 Cc. Sugar 1 tbsp. Melted butter 3 tbsp. Flour 3 egg yolks 1 c, milk 3 egg whites 1 pt. Cottage cheese 1 unbaked pie shell Combine ingredients in order given, with the exception of the egg whites. Stir all ingredients together thoroughly, then add stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into unbaked pie shell and sprinkle with cinnamon. Bake for fifty-five minutes at 350° temperature, aa - Page 441 442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 SOUTHERN Corn BREAD Leta McClendon 2 ¢. Com meal 1 tsp. Sugar "2 ¢. Flour 7 tsp. Baking soda 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 cgg 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Sour milk 4 tbsp. Shortening Sift all dry ingredients together. Add beaten egg, sour milk, and melted shortening. Beat to a thin batter. Pour into two greased pic pans and bake in a hot oven at 400° until brown. Cuuck Wacon Linas Lola Jordan 4 medium-sized onions 1 tsp. Sage 1 c. Uncooked lima beans 2 Ibs. Short ribs 4 c. Water 2 tbsp. Flour 1 tbsp. Salt 1 tsp. Drv mustard "2 tsp. Pepper "4 c. Shortening Quarter onions and add with beans, salt, pepper, and sage, to the water. Cover and simmer for one hour. Dredge the short ribs in flour and mustard and brown on all sides in hot fat. Place ribs in with lima bean mixture and cover and simmer for two hours. Makes four servings. Pracn COBBLER Lola Jordan Milling: 1 qt. Peaches, fresh or canned 1 c. Sugar (if peaches are unsweetened) Dough: 1 c. Flour lc. Sweet milk 1 ¢. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder Mix dough, pour in pan and dot with butter. Then pour heated peaches, mixed with sugar, over this dough mixture and bake at 350° until golden brown. Hers CHICKEN Jean Roth 1 frying chicken flour, as needed 3 tbsp. Olive oil salt and pepper to taste lemon (juice) tsp. Oregano tsp. Sweet basil tbsp. Water paprika ee ee Remove skin from cut-up frying chicken. Cover with flour and quickly brown in skillet with olive oil. Add salt and pepper and the lemon juice. Sprinkle lightly with paprika, oregano, and basil. Add the water, cover, and let simmer for about forty-five minutes. RECIPES FROM THE GULF STATES MISSION 443 ALuL-PuRPOSE MEXICAN SAUCE Marjorie Ricker 2 tbsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Flour 1 small-sized onion, chopped 2 tsp. Chili powder 1 green pepper, chopped "2 tsp. Salt 1 clove garlic, chopped "2 ¢. Meat stock 1 c. Tomatoes Cook onion, green pepper, and garlic slowly in the butter until soft, stirring often. Add flour, salt, and chili powder and stir until smooth. Add meat stock and tomatoes. Cook until thick and smooth. Strain if desired. This sauce is indeed magic. It works miracles in all manner of cookery. It is a sauce that adds unbelievable succulence to chops, roasts, steaks, meat balls, and meat loaves. It makes a marvelous gravy in which to reheat all manner of leftover meats. It is a juice laden with flavor to pour over rice, spaghetti, and noodles. Make it in quantities and keep it in the icebox. Its uses are myriad. CHICKEN WuTH CorN-BREAD DRESSING Helen Sandifer 4-6 lbs. Chicken "2 medium-sized dry onion 3 qts. Water 1 stalk celery 2 green onions 1 tbsp. Salt Simmer hen (whole) in large covered pot to which has been added water. About one hour before it is done add the chopped giblets, green onions, dry onion, celery, and salt. When chicken is done remove from pot and put in shallow pan. Put into oven and brown at 400° for twenty minutes. Corn-Bread Dressing: 3 c. Corn meal 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Flour 2 eggs 4 tsp. Baking powder 2 c. Milk Mix dry ingredients together. Add milk, eggs, and beat well. Pour into wellgreased pan. Bake in oven at 450° for about twenty minutes. Bread should be cold before making dressing. Broth for Corn Bread Dressing: 1 c. Chopped green onions 1 medium-sized chopped dry onion 1 c. Chopped celery 4 eggs salt and pepper 1 pt. Oysters (optional) Mix onions and celery well and add eggs and salt and pepper to taste. Add corm bread. This mixture should be slightly soupy so don't add too much bread. Put in large pan and bake for thirty minutes at 375°. Poultry seasoning or sage may be added to taste, or dressing may be divided into two parts, one with seasoning, one without. Oysters may be added just before baking if desired. Pretending Garden Helen H. L AURA stood watching the young child rollicking among the flowers, occasionally picking a choice daisy, or chasing a bright-winged butterfly. The hillside had been Darlene's playground, Laura thought with resentment. Darlene should be there now — not a stranger. Apparently the little girl, dressed in a plaid dress that blended so harmoniously with the many colorful flowers surrounding her, was not aware of anyone's presence, for she danced gaily among the wild flowers, her blond curly head bobbing up and down, her childish laughter a merry sound on the silent hillside. "I could almost pretend it was Darlene again," Laura breathed. "But I mustn't dream." Vaguely conscious of the continued pantomime before her, she stooped down and picked a flower bud and whirled its stem between her fingers. How many times had she stood in about this exact spot and watched Darlene play in such a manner, or joined her with a basket of fancy cookies still warm from the oven? With trembling hands, Laura let the flower fall to the ground as she nervously brushed her long blond hair from her face, and wiped stubborn tears from her pale cheeks. Finally, unbearable loneliness prompted her to call out. "Hello, there." The youngster stopped abruptly and looked about her. "I didn't mean to startle you," Page 444 Trutton Laura spoke, walking up to the little intruder. With a mark of shyness, the child answered politely. "Does this hill belong to you? It's very pretty." "My little daughter liked it, too," Laura found herself saying kindly. The girl's face brightened. "Do you have a little daughter just my age?" Laura tried to control her voice. "Yes," she answered simply. "Then maybe we could play together. I've been lonesome since we moved here." Any resentment Laura had experienced when she first saw the girl on the hillside melted away when she caught the look of happy anticipation in the youngster's face. Laura took a few short steps and looked toward the house. She imagined she was back in Darlene's room — the room she had kept exactly as Darlene had left it. Her favorite doll, a shabby one, was seated at a small table, set for two, while her best doll was tucked away in a box in the closet. She recalled Darlene's explanation of her choice of the less attractive one. "I know her better, Mommy." "Tl be going now," the girl finally remarked. "I didn't mean." AURA turned quickly back to the forgotten girl, who was nervously fingering the bouquet she held clasped in her hands. "Oh, Pm sorry, dear." She placed her hand on the youngster's head and spoke softly. PRETENDING GARDEN "You see, she became very ill — and she's gone away." "Tm awfully sorry little girl My Daddy is sick, and I come here often and pick him flowers, and I pretend he is well again." Laura reached out and took the child's hand in hers. "And Pm very sorry about your father. And your mother?" The youngster waited a moment before answering. She was wondering if she, too, like the lady, should take a long time to reply.