[Vol46 | July 1959 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
Gulf States Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian Ta meeting held in New Orleans, Louisiana, on June 19, 1955, under the direction of Harold B. Lee and Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the 'Twelve, the Gulf States Mission was formed. It included the States of Texas and Louisiana, and all of Mississippi except seventeen counties in the northern part of the state. Legrand F. Smith, who had been presiding over the 'I'exas-Louisiana Mission, was chosen as the president of the new 11SS107). On the same day that the Gulf States Mission was formed, the New Orleans Stake was organized, with a membership of 2,580. The membership of the mission was given as 4,996. Elder Alma Sonne, Assistant to the Twelve, visited the Gulf States Mission in October 1956. On his return to Salt Lake City he reported that there were eight districts and thirty-one branches in the mission, and that baptisms of new converts would reach 400 during the year 1956. President Legrand F. Smith served faithfully as president of the mission until August 1957, when he was released to return to his home in Spanish Fork, Utah. Lincoln F. Hanks of Salt Lake City was called to o Courtesy, Mississippi Agricultural and Industrial Board THE HISTORICAL BILOXI LIGHTHOUSE BUILT IN 1848 Page 428 THE GULF STATES MISSION 429 ial Ta ee Submitted by Emma A. Hanks Courtesy, Louisiana Department of Commerce and Industry EVANGELINE'S GRAVE IN THE CHURCHYARD OF ST. MARTINVILLE, LOUISIANA The near-life size bronze statue was given to the town by the actress Dolores del Rio who played the title role in the film Evangeline which was made in this locality a number of years ago. Succeed him. President Smith, reporting the mission on his return, said that "the future looks bright in the Gulf States Mission." He stated that baptisms had increased from 168 the first year to 448 the last year he served, and that during his tenure of office seven chapels had been dedicated, and that others were under construction. Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Twelve, made a tour of the Gulf States Mission, in September 1958, with President Hanks. On his return to Salt Lake City he reported that "the mission is growing. As an example, there are now six stakes in the area of the mission — Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, E] Paso, Shreveport, and New Orleans." He pointed out that the mission membership was distributed among twentyseven branches and ten districts. On March 30, 1959, it was reported that there were 4,255 members in the Gulf States Mission, located in twenty-nine branches. Thirty-four Relicf Society organizations, with 508 members, were reported in December 1958. Emma A. Hanks presides over the Gulf States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of the State Capitol Building in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. See also "Recipes From the Gulf States Mission," by Sister Hanks, page 441. Blue Voile for Dreams Norma Wrathall T four o'clock that summer afternoon, Janet Davis pulled from the oven a pan of her famous butterscotch-pecan rolls. Little rivers of melting brown sugar crusted over the luscious mounds of nuts, and the fragrance of buttery caramel and browning yeast-raised dough drifted through the kitchen. It tantalized Janet's nostrils and her mouth became moist, for she was hungry, having eaten nothing since morning. She pressed one finger lightly into the sirup and licked it. M-m-mmshe knew that the rolls were at their crunchy best when fresh from the oven. She could eat one or two and still have enough Ieft for the bake sale next day, as promised. Almost without thought, she opened a drawer and took out a spatula. Then she flung it back, shoved the drawer shut, pushed the pan of rolls back onto the counter and covered them with a clean towel. She would not, she simply would not, eat one more sweet thing. If temptation assailed her, she had but to recall her own image in the full-length mirror at Mina Dee's Dress Shop that very forenoon. She could remember all too clearly how Maina had looked standing there, a black-sheathed blonde willow, her lips pressed into polite silence, as they both watched Jan's efforts to pull up the zipper. She could hear again the smooth little voice—''I'm so sorry, Mrs. Davis. I don't have that dress in your size." This, as Janet, having pulled up the zipper at last, stared in dismay at the bulges above her girdle. Just in time, she had stopped _ herself Page 430 from "But this is SIZE.. Jan now glanced at the clock and sighed. 'Time to start cooking another enormous dinner for her husband, Hal, and their two teen-age sons. Hal would soon be home from his work as a machinist, and the boys from her father's farm where they were working during the summer vacation. All three were as lean and muscular as race horses, and they ate like horses, too, she thought, and never gained an ounce. 'The boys were tall and rangy and tanned; Hal was tall and thick-shouldered and brown, his large face always ruddy and pleasant. Usually, Jan thought of her menfolk with affection. But this afternoon, a tiny line of annoyance was between her eyebrows. How could she diet when she was everlastingly preparing food? She decided that she would simply go all day each day without eating. Then, when night came, she could sit down and eat a reasonable amount, so that Hal and the boys would not comment. She shuddered to think of the jokes, the laughter, the remarks, if it became known that Mother was dieting. Then she thought of her sister, Elizabeth, who worked in an office in town. No wonder Liz could stay so trim; she was not exposed to food all day; she had no one but herself to fix for, and could eat what she chose. Liz had been a widow for many years. She lived alone in her apartmeat in the city, now that her daughter had married and moved away. Often she would drive out to see Jan, who lived at the edge of saying,? A BLUE VOILE FOR DREAMS town, and remark how nice it would be to have a place of your own and a garden, and that big walnut tree to shade the lawn in summer. A? Jan scrubbed the potatoes and put them into the oven at the side of the meat loaf, she reflected that it would be best to make a green salad. She could eat a large plate of it, with cottage cheese. Her smooth checks glowed like pink satin as she worked. Her brown hair had a natural fluffiness that she secretly bemoaned because she could not make it lie flat and "groomed" the way Liz's hair always looked. Jan was pleasant looking, with a quick smile, color that flared warmly in her cheeks, and the easy, effortless grace sometimes noted in plump people. While the food was cooking, she went into her bedroom and rummaged around at the back of the clothes closet. 'There in its plastic bag, hanging safely out of the way, was the blue voile dress. She shook it carefully from its wrapping, holding it in front of her, and posed before the mirror. It was what one might call a love of a dress, with tiny ruffles down the front of the blouse and cascading down the full push-up sleeves. Her gaze went on past the mirror and into the day, three years before, that Hal had given her the dress for her birthday.