HEPHZIBAH.
				XI.

	And many listen’d, and a few obeyed,
		The precious message which the Elders brought;  
	And willing sacrifice these converts made.
		Counting their worldly wealth, and gain as naught.

	The history of the introduction of the Gospel
as taught by the Latter-day Saints, into the
village of B. in the Old Bay state, is similar in
many respects to that of other small towns in
New England, and elsewhere. Evil reports be-
gan to be circulated immediately after the
Elders had succeeded in making a few converts,
concerning the Prophet Joseph Smith and his
followers; and when argument failed to dis-
suade those who had been converted, or who
were favorably disposed towards the doctrines
taught, these false rumors were repeated and
brought to bear in trying to convince those
who were believing, that the people called
“Mormons,” were low, ignorant and deluded;
without any of the refinement of modern civili-
zation; and every story that imagination could
conjure up, was carried from house to house
and from town to town, to destroy the in-
fluence of the Elders in proclaiming the truth
as revealed from heaven.
	But the time was ripe for the dissemination
of the knowledge of the Gospel, the good seed
was being sown, and according to the parable
of the Savior in the New Testament, some fell
upon good ground and some did not, etc.—The
Latter-day work was spreading and many were
converted thereto. The news that the Elders
had been preaching in Boston, and Salem, and
that many had not only been baptized in those
cities but had actually gathered with the
“Mormons” to Nauvoo, seemed to add strength
and give courage to the converts in these
smaller towns; for the ministers, Doctors and


Judges etc., had said, that only in the places
away from the centres of wealth and culture
could such foolish doctrines flourish and find
followers; or such uncouth and unlearned men,
be able to obtain an audience. But here were
the facts published in the papers, that in
cultured Boston, sermons were preached, dis-
 cussions held, and a branch of the Church built
up, and families had gone West to the Latter-
day Zion. The particular village, and adjacent
ones with which the story we are relating is
directly connected, were about sixty and sixty-
five miles from Boston, and Boston ideas were
a sort of understood authority on all great
questions.
	The preaching of the Everlasting Gospel as
it was called by the new converts, was success-
fully promulgated by the local Elders, and
among these were the two young men fresh
from college. They used such excellent
language, and were so earnest and eloquent in
speaking and charming in manner, that many
young people were attracted to the meetings
and became numbered among the little band of
Saints.
	Among this number was one of the young
girls who had attended the high school at M.
and was also one of the "Club" of seven. She
was four years older than Hepsie and quite
capable of appreciating the truths the Elders
taught. She too had been brought up in the
Congregational Church but like Hepsie had
never been convinced that a change of heart
was necessary; to her the simple methods of
faith, repentance and baptism etc., were much
more real; and she complied with these condi-
tions and gave up the hopes she had enter-
tained of distinguishing herself in the world of
letters, for she fully realized the sacrifice she
was making. But there was one sentiment she
had cherished that was not easily eradicated.
She was in love, the young man to whom she
was engaged, was studying for a profession, she
was proud of his attainments, and she hoped
to convince him of the truth she had received,
and that eventually, if not immediately, he might
go with her to the Far West, and that her
dream of happiness which had been so fondly
cherished might be realized. It had been a
genuine love-affair; letters had also been inter-
changed for they dwelt in different places and
the engagement had been announced to friends
and kindred.
	Like many older and wiser than this young
girl, she had fancied in her enthusiasm that her
affiance would see as she did when he heard the
sound of the true Gospel. But alas! she was
doomed to disappointment. She sent for him
to come to the village for he lived miles away
in another town, and he attended several meet-
ing, but he could not see things as Miss R—
did, or was too proud to give up his ambition
or the place he hoped to win among men of
rank. This was a sad blow to the young girl,
and even her mother and grandmother felt she
had been too ready to make a sacrifice which
was likely to involve so much.
	Yet this young girl with every prospect of a
happy marriage, and her heart overflowing
with love for the object of her affections, was
still true to her integrity in the midst of this
severe trial, and bore up bravely; very few
ever knew what it cost her to put aside Love's
fond dream, and take up the cross, for she al-
ready knew that henceforth she must stand
firm and steadfast, and alone, for she felt then
that none other could ever be to her a com-
panion for life, so little we see of the future,
when our hearts are pained with sorrow, when
our "gold is being tried in the furnace."
	Miss Reynolds was Miss Fay's cousin, the
girl who had looked with disdain almost upon
Hepsie when she asserted herself so on the sub-
ject of love. She had a great deal to say to
her cousin about the matter when she saw her
after the engagement was broken off, and this
[column 2]
fact made it harder still for Miss R. to endure
the final separation.
	"How blind you must be to your own in-
terest and future welfare," said Miss Fay the
first time she met her after hearing the news,
"to discard a lover like Henry—and unite
yourself with a people so unpopular as the
Mormons! I am utterly astonished, why when
Aunt Rachel told me you had been baptized, I
sat down and cried like a child, we were such
friends you know,as well as being first cousins;
and even your mother doesn't approve of it,
nor your grandma either, and as for my mother,
your own Aunt too, she is horrified."
	All this in one breath, as it were before Miss
R. could possibly reply but she summoned cour-
age to say as soon as her cousin stopped speak-
ing.
	"You know very well that I did not break
the engagement, moreover that I love Henry as
truly as you love Ralph and expected to be his
wife some day; but he would not countenance
my association with Mormons even, and when
he knew I had joined the Church of Latter-day
Saints, he was furious, and although I entreated
him to listen to my explanations on the sub-
ject, he would not, and so we have parted in
anger after all our vows of eternal constancy
to each other; I never expect to see him again,"
mournfully replied Miss Reynolds.
	Then it will be your own fault, for he will be
willing to make up, its only a love quarrel, if
you'll renounce your foolish notions about this
new religion, and be sensible I'll manage
Henry with Ralph's help;" said Miss Fay.
	"I don't want you to do any thing of the
sort, if he could be so cruel as he has proved
himself, now, what might not happen during
a long life-time, I congratulate myself that we
were not already married, the struggle then
would have been a much greater one, but one
thing I must have back again from Henry
and that is my letters, and the notes I have
written him long ago you know, they must not
fall into any one else's hands," said Miss R.
	"Do you wish me to ask for them, or shall
Ralph tell him to return them?" said her cousin
inquiringly.
	"I think I will wait awhile," said Miss R.
"he may send them to me, he has gone home
now to A. and he will talk everything over
with his sister who was aware of our engage-
ment, and she never liked it very well, I fancy.
Hepsie Hathaway was a great favorite of hers,
and she would have been very proud of Hepsie;
I have no doubt she could manage this affair
of mine, getting my letters back you know,
she was always diplomatic, liked to manage
other girls' love affairs, and never had any of
her own, she's far too young yet to be seriously
in love—but we shall see in time," said Miss
R.
	"By the bye cousin Lucy, that reminds me of
having been told that Mrs. Hathaway had been
baptized by a Mormon Elder, is that true?
Hepsie is still away at school isn't she?" said
Miss Fay.
	"Yes, she is, and making rapid progress in
her studies, but her mother has sent for her to
come home to hear the Mormon Elders preach,
who are expected here from Boston now in a
few days; and it is also true that Mrs. H. has
been baptized; the ceremony was performed for
us both on the same day, the same Elder
officiating, Mrs. H.’s two youngest girls were
also baptized, my cousin Clarissa and the two
sons of Mr. W. who left college and came home,
when they heard their mother had been healed
by the power of God through the administra-
tions of the Elders,', said Lucy.
	"Do you mean, Miss Clarissa the old maid?"
	"I certainly do, she is not very old either,"
replied her cousin rather doubtfully.
	"Not very old! why she was an old maid
when we were children cousin mine; but she'll
get married out West no doubt, when she goes
[column 3]
to Nauvoo; is that the place you talk so much
about going to when 'the way opens?'"
	"Now Hettie, she is not thinking of that,
but of the new truths she has found, and she
rejoices as we all do in meeting together to sing
and pray, marrying is out of the question."
	"Yes here perhaps, because she has let the
time go by, she is out of date, but in the West
I have heard even old maids find husbands,
but I'm more interested at present in these
young men just from college, I have heard the
eldest son is very handsome, dark complexion,
a good figure—fine eyes, and quite polished in
his manners, and you say cousin that he has
been baptized by a Mormon Elder, I can
scarcely believe my senses."
	"Cousin you need not trouble yourself about
his beauty or his manners, while you have
Ralph, there are fine-looking Mormons doubt-
less married and single."
	"Cousin Lucy!" cried Miss Fay excitedly,
"if you can secure Mr. W. I'll forgive you for
breaking off with Henry, and you can if you
will for you are more than his equal in every
respect, and what a handsome couple you would
be, and how all the girls would envy you."
	"Cousin dear," said Lucy Reynolds solemnly,
"I have no heart for joking. Every time I
think of Henry, my courage almost fails me,
and you must not talk to me of marriage with
any one. Henceforth my life shall be devoted
to the interests of the Church, and I hope to see
my mother and grandmother converted to the
same faith that I have espoused. And you my
dear cousin whom I have always so fondly
loved, my playmate from my childhood, let me
entreat you to come and hear the preaching
of these Elders and you too will be convinced
of the grand truths they proclaim, promise me
you will come."
	"I cannot, my mother will not permit it,
and Ralph would be more offended than Henry
is, were I to consent to go to a Mormon meet-
ing."
	And so the two cousins separated for a time,
one light-hearted and indifferent to religion,
the other with a hope buoyant in her soul that
God would over-rule all things for good to
those who trust Him; and yet sad when she re-
called the separation from her lover, her
affianced husband.


