FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
			Vatia, Tutuila, Samoa.
				   Oct. 1 1889.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Since last writing to you we have changed
our home from Aunuu, to Vatia, a village on
the northern side of the island of Tutuila.
And here the first Latter-day Saint mission
house, on Samoa, has been built. The brethren
have labored hard and faithfully, to build a
home that might be a resting place for the
Elders who are called to labor on Tutuila and
Aunuu. And how delightful it is to have a
home of our own to dwell in. One where we
may have a few moments to ourselves, without
six or eight natives with their greasy, almost
naked bodies, lying on the floor smoking, and
asking all sorts of silly questions; always pre-
fering to talk about how the cars run, what
kinds of food there are in America, what
the houses look like, if there is lots of nice
cloth etc. rather than faith, repentance and
baptism.
	On the 17th of June the quiet routine of
our daily life was broken into, as our boat was
seen in the fog, bringing the four missionaries,
B. Solomon, B. Smoot, H. E. Booth, and J. J.
Bennett, who had arrived that morning on the
steamer, Maraposa. All was excitement! We
felt as though we could hardly wait for them
to land; so anxious were we to meet them and
hear the news from home. And oh! with
what impatient, eager hands we opened our
boxes or valises sent by kind relatives and
friends, as necessities, and comfort to cheer us
in our far off home. For the time being we
were as a lot of happy children, to whom Santa
Claus had just paid his respects. And many
were the exclamations of surprise, that burst
from our lips as we unpacked our goods.
	July 24th we spent as a holiday. We
were just settled in our new house, and after
partaking of a nice dinner; we strolled off in
little groups, for pleasant walks along the
sandy beach, through the tall cocoanut groves,
or up the beautiful mountains so densly
covered with ferns, shrubs, climbing plants
and all kinds of tropical vegetation, and
occasionally a miniature Niagara Falls which
had a tendency to make the stroll very
romantic, and pleasant. As the glorious sun
gradually fades behind the high mountains
which surround our village, and the beautiful
twilight is struggling with the shades of night,
we all gather on the lawn in front of the house,

[Column 2]
where we have songs, accompaniments on the
guitar and mandolin, lively conversation and
lemonade. In the evening we had a splendid
missionary meeting, the Spirit of God being
felt to a great extent. And so ended a very
pleasant day on Samoa. We all felt sorry
Bro’s. A. Beesley and M. E. Booth were not
present, as we know they were spending a
lonely day on Aunuu.
	Pres. Dean and family, Elders E. J. Wood,
B. Solomon, and B. Smoot, are on the island
of Upolu, near the capital, Apia. Elders
Wm. O. Lee and family, A. Beesley, H. E.
Booth, and J. J. Bennett, remained here.
They are laboring hard among this people,
but are baptizing very few, still they do not
feel discouraged, but rather filled with a firmer
determination to over come every obstacle, and
accomplish every duty; realizing that God
alone can convert this people, and that if they
warn them of the judgments to come their
garments will be clear of the blood of all they
warn.
	This people are a very lazy, indolent race:
also a nation of liars, thieves and adulterers.
When told of their sins, they coolly say; “We
know it is wrong to do so, that it is in
direct opposition to the teachings of the Bible,
but that is the way of Samoa, and we don’t
feel like doing otherwise.” And they go on
in their sins, prefering evil to good, darkness
to light.
	These people are great hypocrites, they come
to us as dear friends, with great love, in order
to gain some personal advantage. It is so
aggravating to be imposed upon by “a wolf in
sheep’s clothing.” We have to cultivate
patience continually. We find that we must
be very charitable toward this people at all
times, and under all circumstances: making
allowance, for what has been born and bred
in them for many generations. Leaving
judgment for one who is able to judge and will
do so in much mercy. Their greatest redeem-
ing quality is their hospitality to strangers
who may be passing through their villages.
	On Sept. 19th at 8 a.m. we felt quite a
shock of earthquake, our houses trembled and
shook, reminding us of the explosion of the
powder magazines, some years ago, in Salt
Lake City, only we did not receive as long
or severe a shaking. The natives were very
much frightened. Three of our elders have
just returned from a missionary trip, having
preached in twelve villages, and being denied
that privilege and told to leave two others.
They did so; not however until they had read
part of Luke X, to the assembled chiefs and
warning them of what they were doing.
	This is the beginning of summer on Samoa.
The thermometer registers 92 in the shade, but
the nights are nice and cool. We are all en-
joying good health at the present writing.
