REASONS WHY.
	The old order changeth, yielding place to the
new. And God fulfills Himself in many ways.
So sang the Poet and so say we who live in the
midst of the light and knowledge of the Nineteenth
Century. When the march of intellect and im-
provement is making such rapid strides that we
have to get up early in the morning and shake our-
selves well, to in any way keep up with the spirit
of the times; of one thing we are assured that wo-
men will not be left behind in the race, especially
when all are needed as reformers to clear away
the rubbish and dust of ages; the old fogy notion
that women will be unsexed if they have a voice
in making the laws by which they are governed,
and a right to vote for those who adminster them,
will soon be an exploded idea and a thing of the
past. It is a tradition handed down from the dark
ages, from the days when might was considered
right. When a man might steal his wife from his
neighbors castle and there was no redress, if he
happened to be the stronger; and though it is
true that to-day brain rules, yet it is also true that
much is still necessary to be done to bring about
the complete emancipation of women, a right
which they have a privilege to crave and even de-
mand at the hands of the government under which
they live, to stand on an equal plane with men
politically that they may have the privilege of
having a voice in making all laws, but particu-
larly LAWS that effect their own sex; and the right
of the ballot to secure the election of such men to
office as will justly and wisely administer them;
that they may be qualified to work with all good
and true men for the amelioration of the sorrows
of the human race and of their own sex in par-
ticular.
	I ask is there not a necessity for this? Is there not
a cry going up throughout the length and breadth
of the land; a cry of the widow and the orphan,
a cry of destitution, and also a cry of degradation
and shame from the helpless victims of the lib-
ertine and the seducer of innocence, who can pride
himself upon his station in society and can walk
boldly among the respectable; while his poor de-
luded victim sinks to the depths of woe and des-
pair, and if laws are made to punish men for such

[Column 2]
crimes as this, they often fail to reach the case
and for the woman wronged there is no
redress.
	But say some, these are not fit subjects for pure-
minded women to discuss. No! we can shut our
eyes, sit one’s self down in our rocking chairs,
hug our delusions, draw up our skirts as we pass
by and say, I am holier than these. But a day will
come when we shall be called to give an account
for the use we have made of our opportunities and
the amount of good we have done to the poor and
the oppressed. There are thousands of noble-
minded men full of philanthropy, who would
gladly find a remedy for the so called social evil,
but alas! they are in the minority; right minded
women desire nothing better than to support such
men in office, if they had the right of suffrage. This
is reason sufficient, if there were no other, why
woman should have a right to cast her vote at the
ballot box. It is argued by some that women do
not desire the right of suffrage and would not use
it wisely if they had it. Let me ask, do all men
use it wisely? But say some, woman is so safely
guarded in her home she has no occasion to be-
come acquainted with the rough realities of life, it
would jar her sensibilities. It is the place of man
to care for and provide for her. No doubt this is
true, and happy would it be if all were so pro-
vided for and guarded; but we cannot go in the
face of facts and they tell us that tens of thou-
sands of women, even in this most favored land,
rise every morning to fight a hand to hand con-
flict with man for their daily bread; they stand
with all the disadvantage of having no represen-
tation of their own sex when laws are made. A
master hand will sometimes lift the curtain and
we see beneath the surface into the depths below.
We behold the struggles of suffering humanity, we
hear a bemoaning of fallen women and the cries
of helpless children; while the ashes of murdered
offspring cry aloud for vengeance. When we con-
template such a scene as this, we feel ready to call
upon all good women to give the lawmakers of
our great country no rest until they give unto wo-
men equal rights with men to use the talents that
God has given them, that they may be competent
to assist in making such laws as will benefit
both men and women equally.
	Oh woman last formed and fairest of all God’s
creations; how art thou fallen from the high
estate to which thou wert called! Is there not a
balm for thy wounds, and where is the physician
that shall heal thee? Woman has been compared
to a clinging vine and is always supposed to have
a sturdy oak to which she can cling. The oak
stands strong amidst the trees of the forest, the
vine lovely but frail, with glowing flowers and.
curling tendrils, stands alone looking for some
support. The oak bows down his leafy branches
and tells her if she only twins her tendrils about
him, he will be a shelter to her from the heat of
Summer, and will protect her from the blasts of
Winter; that no danger shall come near her while
he is nigh. This is a beautiful picture; would
that it were always a true one; there are many
clinging vines but where are the sturdy oaks to
which they can all cling? When we look upon
the realities of life, we see a far different, state of
things. We are aware that there are some wives
surrounded by the loving care of husbands,
blessed with the duty and affection of children,
with the comforts of home and the society of
friends; in such a case we are ready to exclaim,
what more can women wish for? We reverse the
picture and what do we see. We must give up
the lovely figure of the clinging vine and see a
vine torn from its support, the scorching suns
of Summer have fallen upon its withered leaves,
and dried its roots, the cold blasts of Winter have
torn its tendrils and dragged it from its support,
and it stands alone with drooping form seeking in
vain for the support it so greatly needs. So it is
with many a woman, and if she is nothing but a
clinging vine hard is her fate.


If perchance she is fortuate enough in the days
of her youth to find the noble oak to which she
can cling, or imagines she can, he goes forth in
the strength of his manhood to meet his fellow
man in the battle of life; he can face the world
for he stands on an equal footing with all whom
he meets, he has a voice in the election, of the
officers who make the laws by which he is gov-
erned, and is eligible to hold any office to which
he may aspire or to which he may be elected; she
devotes the best twenty or thrity years of her life
to a labor of love; she toils and she suffers and
complains not; she endures days of pain and
nights of watchfulness, and is well-contented so
long as she can minister to the wants of hus-
band and children, well would it be for her if
provision were always made for her declining
years; instead of this she too often finds herself
standing alone bereft of him she held dear, broken-
down both mentally and physically, yet is she
compelled to face the world anew, to strike out
into new and untried paths, to begin the battle of
life afresh, without the strength and energy that
was hers in the days of her youth before she de-
voted herself to her labor of love; she is not only
often compelled to work for her own support, but
also to provide for a helpless family.
	What is now her situation as compared with
her brother man, she performs a double duty, she
raises and provides for her family, she is the head
of her household,she is amenable to the laws; if she
has property it is taxed, but she has no voice in
framing the laws or in the election of the men who
administer them. Is not this an injustice? Hath
not a woman eyes? hath she not ears? hath not
a woman brains? is not her intelligence of as high
an order as the negroes? And it was considered
sufficient reason to deluge the country with blood
that they might enjoy rights that are denied to
woman! It is thought by some, if woman has the
ballot there is danger that she will forget her wo-
manhood, she will lose her refinement and aspire
to positions that nature and her delicate organiza-
tion unfit her to fill. We ask would she be less a
woman? would she not still be a wife and mother?
would she fulfill these duties less faithfully because
she knows she stands on an equal footing with her
husband politically as well as socially? Would
she be less a companion for him because she can
converse intelligently on subjects that interest him
most, or would she be less competent to instruct
her sons, or would they respect her less because she
understood the jurisprudence of the country which
they are in duty bound to honor. Many noble
women are awake to the importance of this sub-
ject and are agitating the waters of public opinion
and they will eventually triumph, for it is well-
known all great reforms have small beginnings.
We do not intend to sit down in the corner and
cry for sugarplums when there is so much needed
work to be done, we do not believe in the fiction
of the clinging vine, for although woman is more
delicate in her organization than man, though she
may sometimes carry her love of the refined and
the beautiful to an extreme, still her heart is of
oak, and when called to pass through scenes of
trouble and distress, often exhibits a fortitude and
carries burdens at which man would shrink, and
when the trumpet sounds and the watchman on
the tower cry aloud that the day is breaking, wo-
man will be there with man and receive the re-
ward of victory.
