WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿
		WOMEN AS REFORMERS.
	Mrs. President and Ladies: I have chosen
to speak to you this evening on the subject of
Women as Reformers. At the same time ac-
knowledging my inability to do even partial
justice to so grand a theme.
	It is well known to all those who are in the
least familiar with the history of the past and
present, that the path of reformers of either
sex has not been strewn with roses, and
especially is this true of the brave pioneers
who have dared to step aside from the path
which man with innate selfishness has decreed
for ages past that woman should tread.
	In the first half of the present century many
of our sister workers in the Suffrage cause
manifested the true martyr spirit in the interest
of freedom and equal rights. Of this class
Mrs Stanton says of Abby Kelly Foster, "that
if she had lived in the days of martyrdom she
would have been burned at the stake." Suffice 
it to say she continued to expound her convic-
tions in the face of difficulties which would
have appalled any but the stoutest hearts.
Suffering all kinds of persecution, scorn ridi-
cule and violence. Speaking whenever, and
wherever she could find an audience, whether
in barn, schoolhouse or the open air. She with
many others in the early days of the anti-
slavery conflict endured the double odium of
being Abolitionists and “women out of their
sphere.”
	At the World’s Convention held in London
in 1840 the women delegates were denied ad-
mission as delegates, simply because they were
women, not from any lack of capability or fit-
ness, as we can see at once, when we know
that the delegation comprised such leading
spirits as Lucretia Mott, Emily Winslow, and
Anne Philips, with others of like fame. Among
the women lecturers of this century we find
Mary Ashton Livermore among the most
noted. From sketches of her early life we
find that the natural bent of her mind was
shadowed forth even in her childhood,much to
the dismay of her stern New England parents,
who had been born and brought up in the
creed that it is unseemly for a woman to speak
in public. She would frequently collect an
audience of her schoolmates and speak to them
with such fervid, passionate eloquence as to
move them to laughter or tears as the occasion
and her subject demanded, for which she was
severely punished by her father, who was an
orthodox Baptist deacon, who held very radi-
cal ideas on the proper sphere of woman. He
always deplored the fact that she had not been
born a boy that he might have educated her
for the ministry as he was sure she would have
made a famous preacher. However it appears
that the accident of sex could not control her
destiny and despite the fact of her being a
woman we find her in her maturer years a
benefactor to her race, a lecturer to whom the
masses delight to listen, and in addition to

[Column 2]
this we are told that she is a model wife and
mother, and an exemplary housekeeper, not-
withstanding we are often told by our brother
man that the two vocations are absolutely in-
compatible.
	Prominent among the writers and reformers
of the present century we find the venerable
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, now nearing her 73rd,
birthday. She has spent nearly half a century
in ably advocating the good cause.  She is the
daughter of a distinguished Judge, and on one
occasion when she appeared before the Legis-
lature of her native state as a champion of the
unpopular cause of woman’s rights, she made
use of the following words in the course of her
grand argument. “Yes, gentlemen, we the
daughters of the Revolutionary heroes of 76,
demand at your hands the redress of our
grievances, a revision of your State Constitu-
tion and a new code of laws.” At the close of
her speech which had been listened to by a
brilliant and talented audience, she was ap-
proached by an eminent lawyer who had known
and revered her father, and who congratulated
her on her success as a speaker, assuring her
that her father, the distinguished Judge Cady,
could not have excelled her, this tribute she
doubtless considered sufficient praise. It has
been said of Mrs. Stanton that she has been
quoted, ridiculed and abused into a national
fame. In fact such has been the fate of all
who have represented the cause of woman.
When their arguments have been conclusive
and unanswerable their opponents have always
resorted to ridicule and abuse which proves
the weakness of their position.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony next claims our at-
tention as an earnest and efficient worker in the
cause of Temperance and equal rights.  She
began life as a school teacher, receiving the
munificent salary of $8.00 per month, although
being credited by school superintendents with
having the best disciplined school and most
thoroughly taught scholars in the County.
Still at the same time for the same work less
well performed they were paying men teachers
$30.00 per month. The manifest injustice of
this policy struck her very forcibly when after
15 years faithful labor and by practicing the
closest economy she had saved $300. This
experience taught her the necessity of woman’s
contending for her rights, and when the
momentous question began to be agitated, she
was prepared to enter the contest heart and
soul. She is and ever has been a friend to the
oppressed, and was an active and faithful
worker in the Anti-Slavery cause until the
Emancipation proclamation rendered it no
longer necessary. It has been said of her that
she deserved the fame she has gained as a re-
former and that she will be remembered by
future generations when all strife and contro-
versy concerning woman’s rights shall have
passed away.
	Among those women who deserve honorable
mention for having the courage of their convic-
tions and not being afraid to suffer for woman’s
cause are the sisters Abby and Julia Smith of
Glastonbury Conn. Descended from Revolu-
tionary ancestors they firmly believed the
doctrine that “taxation without representation
is tyranny.” They were determined to stand
by their belief at whatever cost to themselves
Consequently rather than voluntarily pay taxes
to support a government in which they had
neither voice or choice, they allowed the
sheriff to dispose of their cattle each year for
the payment of their taxes. Of course this
resulted in pecuniary loss to them, but it pre-
vented the sacrifice of a principle which was
dearer to them than their worldly goods.
Hence they have earned the right to be classed
among the reformers of our day and age.
All honor then to the brave women who have
been first and foremost in the great work of
reforming the wrongs of ages, who have en


dured scorn, ridicule and social criticism, and
as a reward for long years of patient toil they
have received a very few privileges where they
should have inalienable rights; and these very
grudgingly bestowed. Women may continue
indifferent on a subject of such vital import-
ance to unborn generations, Congress may con-
tinue its adverse Legislation, State Legislatures
may continue a deaf ear to the petitions of over
half the native-born citizens of their respective
states, but the good will yet be reached not-
withstanding all the obstacles, for equal suffrage
is among the purposes of the Almighty and in
the near future will be the acknowledged law
of the land, and a grateful posterity will surely
accord the meed of praise to those heroic wo-
men which is so fully their due, and which is
now withheld from jealousy and selfishness.
May we all live to see the glad fruition of their
fondest hopes, is the earnest desire of,
						EQUAL RIGHTS.
	Manti, Utah.


