THE S. L. ASSEMBLY HALL.

	O Ood, the Eternal, the Father of the heavens
and the earth, in the name of thy Son Jesus
Christ, we a small portion of the human family
have assembled ourselves together under is


roof for an especial purpose and we do pray
Thee, that Thou wilt inspire both the speakers,
and the hearers, with a portion of thy heavenly
divine influence, that good shall be the result of
our assembling together that we may learn, and
prepare ourselves for storm, or fair weather: for
war, or peace, for prosperity, or adversity. Thou
hast blest us in early youth, thou hast been with
us all the journey of life thus far, and we pray
Thee, that Thou wilt forget us not in our declin-
ing years. Thou didst cause that the earth should
roll into existence, and from chaos it was formed.
Thou didst cause that the earth should produce
vegetation, and that the human, and animal crea-
tion should subsist upon it, and dwell upon its
face; and now we do implore Thee, that Thou
wilt bless the earth, that it may still bring forth
vegetation, and that Thou wilt cause the dews of
heaven to descend, and the rains in due season.
Wilt Thou temper the climate for the good of
mankind, and all animal creation, that we may
feel to praise Thy holy name that mankind does
live. Wilt Thou the Great Eternal command
the lightning, the earthquakes, and the elements,
that they may be manifested for the good of all
vegetable, and animal creation. We pray for
the weak; we pray for the afflicted, and we pray
for the strong, that they may be willing to help
carry the burdens of the weak. We pray that
Thou wilt in Thine own way and time, mellow
the hearts of the wicked aud immoral, that Thy
grace may spread and form a canopy over the
whole earth, that sin and wickedness may not be
known, and righteousness triumph. Wilt Thou
be with the rulers of the nation, that Thy voice
shall reach their ears in their council chambers,
that they may fear to make unjust laws, and that
they may study to improve and make better those
already formed, that the cries of the people may
not reach Thee because of oppression. Wilt thou
soften the hearts of the rigid, that the means that
man has at his disposal may be used for the whole
of humanity, may they not forget their benefactor
but ever bend the knee in humble reverence to
Thee. Wilt Thou be with woman as Thou hast
with man, to strengthen her where she is weak
that she may aid in the defense of truth and
right, and where her voice is heard throughout
the broad face of the earth, may it have echo in
the hearts of the honest, and may she serve to
smooth the wrinkles of unjust laws, as she does
and has, the pillows beneath the aching heads of
Thy soldiers and servants. We pray Thee that
Thou wilt bless Thy handmaidens here in this
little nook in the valleys of the mountains, that
we may perform noble and grand acts that will
compare with the grandeur of the mountains
around. Hear us O Father at this time, and ac-
cept of onr humble offering for we dedicate our-
selves, our meeting, and our cause unto Thee,
asking a forgiveness of our sins, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS
		     UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of the Relief Society
of Utah Stake, held in the Meeting house,
Provo, City, August 30, 1889. President
Mary John presiding, assisted by her Coun-
selors. Conference opened by singing and 
prayer. The minutes of the former Conference
were read,also the half yearly reports from the
different branches of the society.
	Sister John said she felt pleased to meet the
sisters in Conference again. Was pleased with
the reports, it showed the sisters were using
their means to help the poor, etc. “We meet
here together from time to time to gain
strength from one another. We have been dis-
appointed in not having Sister E. B. Wells with
us as we expected. We will hear verbal reports
[Column 2]
form the different Presidents who are present."
After reports from the Presidents, Sister John
called on Sister East—from Arizona—who was
present, to speak to us.
	She said: “Although my face is strange my
spirit is in unison with you. I have been
absent from this part of the country for ten
years; previous to my going south I lived where
I could hear and treasure up the words and
teachings of President Young, and Sister Eliza 
R. Snow.” Spoke of the changes she ex-
perienced in attending meeting, quoted some
of the inspired sayings of Heber C. Kimball.
“Let us attend to our duties, it is not wisdom
to fill up our time with vanities, teach your
children holy principles, they have a mighty
mission to perform,” etc.
	After singing, and benediction by Sister M.
Daniels, Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m. Con-
ference commenced by singing and prayer.
	Sister East spoke to us again occupying
most of the time in the afternoon, giving a very
interesting account of her first hearing the
Gospel of the Latter-days preached. Was
taught by her grandparents that when the
right gospel should be preached the signs that
are spoken of in the scriptures should follow
them that believed. The first Mormon hymn
she ever heard sung was, “What was witnessed
in the heavens.” And the Elders then gave
an account of Joseph Smith’s mission, and we
were promised that if we sought for it we
should know for ourselves. I sought for a tes-
timony through fasting and prayer, and
received the gift of tongues and prophecy, and
rejoiced saying, now I know that God lives; I
bore a testimony to the same in meeting, at
that time, the Elders were persecuted and spit
upon by some. My father said go home with
me and I will find a place for you where they
will not spit on you, the Elders replied, never
mind they spit upon our Saviour. I had
promised to believe and could I after receiving
such a testimony, be a traitor? It is now 30
years since I covenanted to obey the Gospel
and I feel determined to stand faithful to the
end. Joseph Smith died for the Gospel. “A
mother may forget her nursing child, but the
Lord will not forget His people." The God of
Joseph and Brigham and our God will de-
liver us, Amen.
	Sisters Standring, Cluff and Daniels and also
Susa Y. Gates made additional remarks in the
same spirit and bore strong testimonies to the
truth of this Latter-day work.
	Sister John felt that we had been blessed in
meeting together, wished to bear her testimony
with the rest of her sisters. Conference was
adjourned for three months. Singing,
		"The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Benediction by Mother Duke.
