THE SABBATH DAY.

	"Remember the Sabbth day to keep it holy.
Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work,
but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord
thy God, in it thou shalt not do any work, thou
nor thy son nor thy daughter nor thy man
servent, nor thy maid servant, nor thy cattle
nor the stranger that is within thy gates."
This commandment is in force upon us, today,
and should be as strictly observed by us as it
was by the children of former day Isreal. The
Lord has never repealed that commandment
but has added to it in this day, and has enjoined
it upon us, through His servant Joseph Smith,
and it is recorded in the Doctrine and 
Covenants, see Sec. 29 verse 9, we are told
there to go to the house of prayer and offer up
our devotions to the most High. “For verily
this is a day appointed unto you to rest from
your labors, and on this day thou shalt do
none other thing only let thy food be preyared
with singleness of heart.” The Lord does not
say that we can keep part of the Sabbath Holy
and then we can do as we please the other part,
but He emphatically says no work shall be done
“only to prepare our food with singleness of
heart.  Many of our young people think be-
cause they attend Sunday School regularly 
they are justified in not attending the after-
noon meeting, but are at liberty to enjoy them-
selves, and have a good time, and they think
it no harm to go riding after meeting; but it is
plain to be understood that our Heavenly
Father does not look at it in that light, or He
would not have said that the cattle were not to
work.  And He did not say or intimate that
we could keep Holy only a part of the day.
	Sunday lasts from 12 o’clock Saturday night
until 12 o’clock Sunday night, as we all know
if we would think.  But it seems as though 
some of us thought Sunday only lasted ’til
noon, or the most until four o’clock. We are
not justified in working or in seeking pleasure

[Column two]
on that day, only as we are obliged to do, and
we are not obliged to go to work and cook a
feast on Sunday, but should as much as pos-
sible prepare our food the day before, and let
our bodies rest, and we can rest as well in
meeting listening to the cousels of the servants
of the Lord and partaking of the Sacrament,
as we can lounging around home depriving our-
selves of that spiritual food we all need in order
to remain bright and keep our minds and
spirits in a healthy condition.
	You say well don't we have the Sacrament
in Sabbath school and is not that sufficient?
	Yes, we have the Sacrament in Sabbath
School, and by partaking we covenant or
promise "God our Eternal Father that we will
always remember Him and keep His com-
mandments," and then we immediately break
one of His commandments by breaking the
Sabbath day.
	Perhaps we never thought of it in this light,
but that is what we do when we go out riding
or any thing else that is not right, even though
we have been to Sunday School.  Now girls
listen attentively the next time when the bread 
and water are being blessed, to the words that
are used, and then take it conscientiously with
an understanding of the great responsibility
you take upon yourselves, and I believe you
will soon be able to see and comprehend in its
completeness the right course to take to be
consistent Latter-day Saints.
