							M. A. THACKERAY.

	In affectionate remembrance of Benjamin Franklin
Burrows, who died Oct. 28, 1889, being exactly 12 years
and 7 months of age, of typhoid and spinal disease, which
last complaint had afflicted him from 2 years of age, his
little spirit always seemed far beyond his tender years, his
talent for music could not be surpassed, and the gift of
memory far excelled that of children; which was al-
ways noticable at Jubilees, Sunday Schools, and Primary
Meetings; he took great pleasure in laboring in the Deacon's
Quorum which he never missed, always trying to assist his
young brethren to make the meeting interesting; his re-
ligion the last summer was his delight; he was very kind to
neighbors and playmates, and especially to little children.
At the age of 10 years he had great enjoyment in playing
the snare drum for our brass band, he studied night and day
to keep pace with the older members, but on account of his
belng so small he had to give it up which grieved him very
much; but this did not discourage him, the piccolo was his
next study and the last day he sat up he took his lesson.
All that could be done seemed of no avail, his dying testimony
to his loving mother, was grand in one so young. He ex-
amined his short life, and felt satisfied he had done all he
could and felt so happy; said he "tell the primary children to
call for the Elders when sick in life or death and they will
be so happy." His counsel to his older brothers and sisters


was to spend their best days for the work of God, and
never miss their meetings, the brethren's kindness to him
was beyond expression. We feel God has called him as a 
brave little missionary to work behind the vail, for such our
Father needs on earth and in another sphere, and may we
live to pattern after his example though 'tis hard to spare
such a dear boy.

Farewell dear Frank until we meet, God's work shall be our
	chief delight,
Until the resurrection dawns then may we be all shining
	lights.
										E B.
	Huntsville, Weber Co.


Union
Pacific
The
Overland
Route

