		A PALACE OF NINEVEH
	One of the great palaces of the city of
Nineveh in the days of Assyrian glory.
	The excavations which were made by Mr.
Layard some years ago, and recently by Mr.
George Smith, on the site of the ancient city
of Nineveh, have rendered it poesible to form
a good idea of what must have been the
beauty and style of its royal palaces. They
appear to have been built on artificial mounds
varying in height from thirty to fifty feet
above the surrounding plain. These were in
some cases construed of [---] or bricks,
and in[---] merely of earth and timber.
The former prevail at Nimrud, and the latter
at the group now known as Kuyunjik. A
solid wall of masonry protected the face of
the mound, and majestic flights of broad
steps led up to the palace itself. Some of the
mounds were of enormous extent, looking in
the distance like natural elevations rather
than the work of human hands. The palaces
erected on these mounds or platforms were of
two or more stories, aud were built of huge
beams and sun-dried bricks faced with slabs of
alabaster.	
	When Assyria was overrun by the Medes,
assisted by the Babylonians, about 656 B.C.,
Nineveh, its capital, was utterly destroyed,
and its people made captive. Happily, when
the chief buildings were overthrown, the beams
and material of the upper stories protected
the contents of the lower stories, and these
were further preserved from decay, though ex-
posure to wind and rain, by the accumulation
of rubbish under which they were buried.
In some cases this layer was twenty feet thick.
	In 1845 Layard succeeded in penetrating to
the ruins under the rubbish, and still later
Mr. George Smith continued the search. The
reward repaid all the toil and danger. A
large number of tablets—nearly ten thousand
—were found covered with inscriptions. The
writing had   been done on terra-cotta clay
while it was soft, and the tablets, which were
about a foot square, were then subjected to
heat until they were hard. They were then
set up against the walls of the rooms in the
king’s palace, and formed the library. One
collection was commenced by King Shalmane-
zer about 860 B. C., and was largely increased
by Sardanapalus, his successor. After
immense labor the writing has been deciphered,
and it is found that the tablets contain a con-
tinued history of the reigns of these kings.
They also bear records of current traditions.
Very remarkably, there are two records sub-
stantially confirming the Mosaic account of the
Creation and the Deluge.
	The early history of Nineveh is involved in
much obscurity, although there is reason to

[column 2]

﻿think that it was one of the cities founded by
colonists from Arabia during the later period
of the Cushite civilization. It is mentioned by
Herodotus, Strabo, and other classical  his-
torians, in terms indicating that its origin to
them was scarcely known, and that its great
antiquity was a matter beyond doubt. In 401
B. C., when Xenophon led the 10,000 Greeks
in that celebrated march which he recorded, he
passed over the territory on which Nineveh
had stood. Alexander the Great, about
seventy years later, fought the battle of Arbela
in the vicinity; and none of his historians
mention the fact of the nearness of the site of
the Assyrian Capital to the place of conflict
	What remains have been since disclosed show
a relation to the Phoenician type of archi-
tecture, which was derived, like the general
customs of those commercial people, from the
ancient Arabians.
						Phenological Journal.


The minutes of Mass Meeting at Provo, and
Mrs. Tanner's eloquent address, also Leaves
From My Journal, Gilmore's Concerts, and
Mrs. E. S. Taylors visit East, are left over for
lack of space.

	Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, at the recent
annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Woman
Suffrage Association, told how "Old Abe," the
famous war eagle, passed his time after his re-
tirement in laying eggs, to the astonishment of
his keepers. She called out much merriment
by saying, in reference to the American eagle,
"Gentlemen, your eagle is a hen!"


