IN MEMORIAM.

		"Of all the thoughts of God that are
			Borne inward unto souls afar,
		Along the Psalmists music deep,
			Now tell me, if that any is
		For gift or grace surpassing this
			He giveth His beloved sleep!"

	On Tuesday morniug October 22, at 6. 10, a. m.
Mrs Sarah Dunford beloved wife of Elder George
Dunford of this city, departed this life at the
family residence in the seventeenth ward; her
children were around her bedside and so peaceful
was her falling asleep that they were scarcely
conscious it was death. Indeed the feeling of the
presence of the grim monster at whom all stand
appalled was not in the house. She literally fell
asleep according to the promise made to the
Latter-day Saints that they should not taste of
death.
	The disease that preyed upon Sister Dunford


for some time and which she had combated
bravely, and several times successfully, even when
death seemed inevitable, was an affection of the
heart. At times for some weeks together her
sufferings had been intense, and only faith in the
Gospel and the administration of the Elders had
been her support in these times of affliction.
Many were the precious promises made to her
by the brethren, who were called from time to
time to exercise the power of healing in her be-
half. In her illness she was attended by loving
hands, and hearts and everything that caresses
and affection could do to lighten her affliction, or
alleviate her pain was tenderly and dutifully per-
formed by her children, grand-children and
friends.
	Mrs. Dunford was born in Trowbrige, Wilts,
England on the 11th of May 1825 and was aged
64 years 5 months and 11 days at the time of her
decease. When a young girl we have been cred-
ibly informed she was considered quite a beauty
in her native town, having a clear complexion,
large blue eyes and golden hair; she was such a
favorite with all that she was designated the
flower of the village, not only on account of her
beauty, but amiability, her attractive manners and
the sweetness of her disposition. She was
married at nineteen to Brother George Dunford
and subsequently became the mother of nine
children; two sons and two daughters are still
living, the others have gone before her and her
meeting with them will assuredly be a joyful one;
her grandchildren were twenty-four in number,
seventeen of them still living. Sister Dunford
received the Gospel in early life in her native
land and gathered to Zion with her husband and
family twenty-two years ago, in the fall of 1868.
	Brother and Sister Dunford went to reside in
the 17th ward at that time and have lived there
ever since. The following Spring the Relief
Society was organized in that ward and Sister
Dunford accepted the position of a teacher in
the Society, which calling she filled with honor
and faithfulness, until her failing health rendered
it absolutely necessary she should discontinue
her labors in the Society. In social life she was
very agreeable and pleasant, courteous to all, very
unassuming, though when drawn out in conversa-
tion animated and capable of brilliancy in social
converse. Sister Dunford accepted the Gospel
it its fulness including the principle of plural
marriage, and when her husband was imprisoned
for “unlawful cohabitation” she stood by him
with the firmness of a true and devoted wife,
without murmur or complaint. She was indeed a
mother in Israel, not only to those of her own
household, but to many in her quiet and tender
way. Her judgment in matters of economy and
business management was excellent, and her
counsel always on the side of right and justice;
she endured the many trials and crosses of life
with patience and serenity, always endeavoring
to fulfill the smallest duty with that prcision and
regularity that characterizes the truly noble. Her
home was her heaven and it was there she loved
best to be with her dear ones around her.
	Her protracted illness and its effect upon her
made her long for rest, that rest which is calm
and peaceful, and that sweet rest she has found
and we can only say it is well, “God knew the
best.”

	"O earth, so full of dreary noises!
	O men, with wailing in your voices:
	      O delved gold the wailers heap!
	O strife, O curse, that o’er it fall!
	God strikes a stillness through you all,
	      And giveth his beloved sleep."

	The funeral of Sister George Dunford was held
at the old home where she had dwelt so many
years, and experienced so much of joy and of
sadness, on the afternoon of the 24, of October.
Now she was to go out from it forever. Loving
hands had prepared her for burial and as she lay

[Column 2]
in her saintly robes in the magnificent white cas-
ket, she looked as though she was already
celestialized. Wreaths and garlands of flowers,
the gifts of those who loved her fondly, adorned
the bier and a sweet and solmn peace pervaded
the house.
	The services were conducted by Bishop John
Tingey, and opened with singing by the quartette
Messrs. Spencer, Whitney, Pyper, and Goddard,
		“When the swallows homeward fly. etc."
	An eloquent and touching prayer was offered
by Elder Goerge Bywater, Singing,
		       “Spin Spin, "etc."
	The speakers were Bishop O. F. Whitney,
Pres. Angus M. Cannon and H. A. Naisbitt.
	Pres. Cannon referred pathetically to her ex-
emplary life and energy of character and spoke
of having watched her tottering form as she went
to and from the Tabernacle to attend divine ser-
vice. Many precious things were said calculated
to comfort the living, among other sayings, that
she was accepted of God.
	The anthem “She is not dead but sleepeth” was
rendered by the quartette and the benediction
pronounced by Elder Rodney Badger.
	May the consolations of the Holy Spirit comfort
the sorrowing ones, and may they remember her
wise counsel and integrity and say in their hearts.

	"We will do likewise; death hath made no breach
	      In love and sympathy in hope and trust;
	No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
	But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
	      That greets us still though mortal tongues be dust.’


