EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The present number of the Exponent closes
the half volume, and we must remind the agents
and subscribers that some have only paid fifty
cents on volume 18 and that the six months has
now expired and we hope all these will continue
their patronage and also that others will come
forward and help by their subscriptions in sus-
taining the woman’s paper. It is the only paper
published in Utah at a dollar a year, and it has
for over seventeen years been the official organ
of the women of Zion. The Exponent has al-
ways published reports of women’s organizations,
and meetings as many as the space would admit
of, not only the Relief Society but the Young
Ladies’ Associations and Primary Associations;
the printed matter has by this means kept the
sisters in all parts of the Territory and in all the
Stakes of Zion posted in regard to what was
transpiring in these associatious, in a sort of
general way. so that there might be a uniformity
in the methods of work, and in the general results
to be reached.
	The Exponent has always given information
on the suffrage question, and has aimed to keep
pace with the cause as it advanced in various
parts of the United States and Great Britain.
During the time when the women of Utah voted
and when bills in the special interest of women
were pending before the Legislature, the Expo-
nent was always ready to advocate and maintain
the woman’s side of all vexed questions. Bio-
graphical sketches of many of the leading women
of the Church are to be found in its columns,
they were carefully written from the testimony of
the women themselves,and in one or two instances
by the person herself. These are records of the
lives, or of incidents in the lives of some of the
most eminent and heroic women, who have lived
in this dispensation. There are many more
sketches and histories to be written, and the
columns of this paper are ever open to publish such
sketches and incidents,and also the best thoughts,
sentiments and opinions of the women of the
Church in prose or in verse. Essays on all sub-
jects are accepted and it has been the desire of
those connected with the paper from the first, to
encourage young women and those in years to ex-
press their thoughts, experiences and testimonies
for the benefit of others and to leave them upon
record.
	Since the organization of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association in Utah, notices of every mass
meeting and convention have been published and
many speeches and minutes of meetings as well.
It is certainly in the strict sense of the word a
representative woman’s paper, and it is most de-
sirable that every President of a Relief Society
should have a copy, and as many others as can,
because it gives them the idea of their own
work and that of others, besides general in-
formation. If the President of the Relief Society
has not the means to pay for it, then the Society
should pay out of its Treasury for at least one
paper, to be read from at meetings and circulated
among the members. Agents for the EXPONENT
will use their utmost influence for the extension
of the circulation in order that the paper may
continue to be issued at one dollar per year. The
sisters will bear in mind that the EXPONENT is
not supported by advertising but by regular sub-
scriptions. To all those who have written for the
paper in past years we would say, continue to

[Column 2]
write and help make the paper a repository of the
best literary productions, of the times, and bear
in mind that this work is educational, and also
that it is better to represent yourself than to be
represented by others. The newspapers of the
United States have much to say concerning
“Mormon women,” and it is certainly a duty to
speak in their own defence, in the pages of their
own paper, and tell their own story in their own
way.


