THE PEOPLE’S PARTY.

	The meetings of the People’s Party Clubs are
creating quite a stir in the community, and will it
is to be hoped arouse the inactive and indifferent
to come forward and do their part when there is
so much at stake. The speeches made at these
meetings have many of them been genuinely elo-
quent and magnetic not stale old political bom-
bast, but really original.
	The music of the bands adds much to the en-
thusiasm, for what American citizen does not feel
patriotic sentiments aroused when he hears martial
music with the fife and drum. It brings fresh to
mind the history of the country and the many
thrilling incidents recorded of heroic courage and
victory’s gained for the nation of which all loyal
people and especially dependents of Revolution-
ary sires and mothers are so justly proud.
	The riding clubs are going to make a grand
display, the People’s Party will not need to be
ashamed of the Utah Mountain boys on horse-
back, nor of the marching clubs either, for the
young men born and reared here in these moun-
tain fastnesses partake of the strength and
grandeur of the “everlasting hills."
	The spirit of the pioneers too is implanted in
their souls, the desire to be free from oppression,
and maintain the liberty guaranteed by the funda-
mental principles of the government of our com-
mon country.
	The women of the people feel these patriotic
sentiments glowing within their souls as much as
men do, and are as ready to give expression in
whatever way is open and practicable for them.
The women are admitted as members of the
clubs, and although they have no vote, they have
a voice, and should be able through their powers
of persuasion to exert a wide-spread influence in
advising and encouraging and inspiring their
husbands, fathers, brothers and sons.
	Women mounted no horseback look very
beautiful and would certainly add much to the
magnificence of display and give a particular zest
to the enjoyment of the exercises. It seems to
us to be a very proper thing, and there is nothing
young ladies like better than to be mounted on a
handsome horse with gallant young men beside
them.
	Gen. Joseph Smith when out on parade as
many of the people will remember always had
some of the ladies among the cavalry, and here
in the the valley it will be recollected it was a
regular custom of the officers, when out for drill
to have an escort of ladies on horseback. Fine
horses and accoutrements, banners and flags and
soul-thrilling martial music make a wonderful
difference, and relieve the monotony of regular
drilling. It is a desirable accomplishment to be a
good rider and the exercise is one of the most
healthful and bracing. The People’s Party need


not be behind in anything that will inspire them
with sublime courage,and that is nesessary in any
place where there is a contest going on, and in
this coming election no pains should be spared
but all honest and honorable efforts made to
secure the people in their maintenance of polit-
ical freedom.


