		LAIE, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.
PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG:
	Our half yearly conference of the Relief 
Society of the Hawaiian mission was held at
Laie, Oct. 5. We had a very interesting con-
ference the branches all being better repre-
sented than at any previous one, and a much
better understanding of their duties is plainly
manifest, it is new to most of them, hence they
make many mistakes, but in most instances
they are very zealous, to learn and do all that
is required of them.
	It will be seen that we are making some pro-
gress, nine new organizations have been or-
ganized since last April. There are now 31
branches with a membership of 570. As the
mission is increasing in numbers so in like
proportion will our branches increase. A few
years ago it was a question with the Elders of
the mission of the advisability of organizing a
Relief Society among the Hawaiian Sister


[column 1]

﻿thinking they were incapable of managing and
successfully conducting their meetings and 
other matters growing out of such an organiza-
tion. But time has proven to the contrary
and now the Relief Society in its several 
branches is regarded as one of the great ad-
juncts of the spread of the Gospel in the
Hawaiian Mission.
	Representative Sisters were called and set
apart to travel as Missionaries, who have visited
all the branches of the Society and where the
numbers would justify branches were organized
also visiting and encouraging all the sisters,
where their numbers would not justify an or-
ganization; we have also done some traveling
in which we have experienced great pleasure
and enjoyed much of the Spirit of the Lord
even to the shedding of tears, at the manifesta-
tion of the power of the Holy Spirit in the
midst of our Hawaiian Sisters. We would be
pleased to receive any words of counsel and en-
couragement you may in your wisdom feel to
give, as we are young, but striving to do all we
can in our feeble way.
	With kind regards to yourself and all the
sisters in Zion, I remain your colaborer in the
cause of truth.
					LUCY M. KING.
	Oct. 9, 1889.

				HYRUM
	Oct. 2, was the anniversary meeting of the
Primaries of Hyrum ward, and shortly after 
10 o’clock the meeting was called to order by
Pres. Martha Allen of first district. Singing,
"Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Stake counselor
Emma Pike, repeated by the whole congrega-
tion. Singing, "Now let us rejoice" etc, Minu-
ets of October 2nd 1888 were read and
unanimously accepted. Annual reports from
the 3 districts were read. Besides an in-
crease of membership and hearty responses to
exercises allotted them. There has been in
the whole ward about 50 dollars donated and
gathered by these primaries. 34 dollars of 
this has been used to gather poor children from
Europe. Over 4 dollars towards a sacrament
set for meeting house and for other good and 
praiseworthy purposes has the rest been used.
They have also made 6 quilts which were on
exhibition at the fair and furnished 18 yards of 
good home-made carpet for meeting house
stand. Truly we can say with the Poet,
They are the busy bees of Deseret. Many 
good and appropriate exercises were rendered
during the meeting and we could truly echo
the sentiments of the speakers. A marked
improvement has been made. Pres. Jane E. 
Molen, sisters Mattie Hanson and Emma Pike 
her counselors, together with our worthy
Bishop made some excellent and timely re-
marks, showing the mission before us was to
build up the Kingdom of God; to exercise
faith, attend to our prayers, cultivate good
manners, the spirit of kindness. Guard
against profanity and disobedience. Observe
punctuality. Not to use tobacco only for
bruises and sick cattle and gave other good
and valuable instructions. All officers were
unanimously sustained with two changes. Sing-
ing,  "In our lovely Deseret.” Benediction by
O. H. Rose. brought a profitable and spirited
meeting to a close. 
	2 p. m. The Primary Fair was opened in the
school house. The sum of 5 cents being the
admission fee. Together with many others I
went and saw what Primary children can do.
And to say the fair was a grand success would
be only what it merited. The indetatigable
labors of Prests. Counselors and members in
arranging and making the Fair, are very com-
mendable. Our boys with case and pocket
knives seemed to have been very busy in
making ladders, rakes, wagons and many
other things. Our girls all the way from 3

[column 2]

years upwards had been very busy with their
needles and crochet hooks. Our fruit and
vegetation were excellent and luscious. There
was some work which was done by brethren
while boarding with Uncle Sam which deserved
praise. There were 3 paintings by H. H.
Petersen Jun. exhibited, which called forth
considerable praise for his first attempt. A
quilt was shown to us which took 10 years to
save all the little pieces. Every piece being
spun and wove in the family. It is impossible
to do justice to all who had so earnestly
labored and contributed for the fair in this
short article. It certainly took great patience
and earnest work to make it what it really
was, a successful fair. 
			    Yours Truly,
