The Storm Amy McClure The rain comes down! My heart is sad In tune with Pluvius, wrathful, mad! Though lights are gleaming on my wall, Though gay my room and warm, withal, Gone is the peace I might have had. Nature's black mood belongs to me! Stormy my heart and soul must be. And with the gale, emotions rise,? The rain comes down! My thoughts toss like a wind-torn sea, Lashing in world-old tragedy. To me the night's no mystery, Ah! Will it kill this agony? The rain comes down Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in April) TEMPERANCE Temperance is one form of moderation. In this lesson it shall mean the control of appetites to the extent of abstaining from the use of things that are not good and refraining from the excessive use of things that are good. In the realm of appetites or body-born desires, Temperance is the ensign of self control. It is an advertisement of will power well directed. Temperance and Temper Indulgence in that which is not good, or over-indulgence in that which is good, injures one's disposition. Intemperance and irritability are cause and effect, acting and reacting on each other. There is ample evidence of the truth of the aphorism: "The more intemperate, the meaner the man." The stimulant temper is decidedly disagreeable, the narcotic temper is dangerous; the former deals out misfortunes; the latter thrusts tragedies upon mankind. Temperance and Disease Habits of temperance are handmaids of health. They keep the home of our spirits in a condition most favorable for us "to live till we die." Only by the temperate enjoyment of our appetites can we preserve the power to enjoy them. Disease is nature's agent for collecting indulgence debts. It is strikingly strange to what an extent the extravagance of health-destroying indulgence is practiced with the self-illusion of an indefinite postponement of pay-day. The following is the substance of a true story: A person whose nerves became shattered by the tea-drinking habit sent for a specialist. He responded to the call, traveling one hundred and five miles from Salt Lake City by buggy. He diagnosed the case and wrote the following prescription: "Quit drinking tea,' and left. A month passed and the patient who had GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101 been following the course of treatment to advantage, received the following statement: Mrs. Dr. To Dr. For treatment $2.00?Traveling expenses, 210 miles at $1. 00 per mile, $210.00. Total $212.00. The bill was paid and it is said that the fully recovered patient long afterwards remarked, "It was worth it, but I might have gotten it much cheaper." Very few diseases are inherited from progenitors, but many tendencies toward break-downs are passed on from parents to children through the intemperance of the former. Temperance and Death Someone has said of the temperate man, "Painlessly as a candle burns down in its socket, so will he expire'"?a millennium prediction often being fulfilled today. Strikingly illustrative of the relation of temperance and death was the testimony of President Heber J. Grant, a testifier and pleader who will not be silenced. While telling of his miraculous delivery from death, he said in vindication of the word of the Lord concerning those who practice the Word of Wisdom, "The destroying angel passed me by." Who can tell how many there are living who would now be numbered with the dead had they not lived under the promise of | protection from being struck down prematurely. And one may consistently conclude that, before their time, many have gone beyond because of failure to. Comply with the law upon which the blessing of prolonged life is predicated. The unknown author who wrote "Intemperance is the Prime Minister of Death" found ample evidence of the truthfulness of the statement. National Temperance National temperance, like every other public virtue, is the offspring of individual and family temperance. No unity can rise above the units composing it. Attempts at national temperance have been made by monarchial edicts from time to time, but in our Republic we have the call coming from the people. It is the voice of the governed. The origin, growth, and prospects of this unparalleled temperance movement may be glimpsed through the following: "Yet this was 'the very thing that pushed Frances Willard into the larger work. Her home had been a home of' total abstinence. The Crusade came to Chicago. She was roused and felt 'the call' to work. We include the story of the temperance movement as told by Strachey: The Woman's Christian Temperance Crusade was one of the most remarkable events in the surprising history of American national issues. It was entirely unexpected and came sweeping  over the middle states with the violence of a prairie fire; and, like a fire, it burned away the old order of things and made room for a new order to grow. It was, in many respects, a pathetic and even a ridiculous Crusade. The women who joined in it were so sheltered, and they came out with such simple-minded fervor. But it was undoubtedly a most important moral movement, though it is sometimes hard to remember this serious value in the face of the simplicity of the actors. It began almost by accident. Dr. Dio Lewis, a traveling lecturer from Boston, spoke in the little town of Hillsboro, Ohio, on December 22, 1873, on the subject of "Our Girls." Being snowbound, he was forced to spend another night there, and was persuaded to lecture on temperance. In this lecture he suggested that the women in the town should go to the saloon-keepers and beg them not to sell "spirituous liquors." Something in the audience, or in the earnestness of the lecturer, made it all seem real and possible, so that when he called for volunteers, most of the women present rose to their feet. From that moment nothing could have stopped them. Timid ladies, who had never thought of speaking in public, rose up and prayed aloud. White-haired women led the bands out into the streets, and the wives of the "prominent citizens" followed them. All kinds of women joined the Crusade; wives and mothers of drunkards} came sobbing to the meetings. School teachers, foreigners, servants, grandmothers who said they were "of no use except to go along and cry," rich and poor, old and young, all marched out together singing, "Give to the winds your fears," and going boldly into the worst places, until the town seemed to be "given over into the hands of God and the women." "Thus the women of Hillsboro went out in their simplicity to persuade the saloon-keepers "in a spirit of (Christian love, and for the sake of humanity, and their own souls' sake, to quit the hateful, soul-destroying business;" and thus the saloon-keepers, in their surprise, were persuaded. One after another they signed the pledge and closed their stores, and poured their "poison" into the gutters, until within a week there was no more drink sold openly in the whole town. Encouraged by this remarkable success, the women of all the towns roundabout began to follow their example, and the revival spread in every direction until "saloon-keepers had been prayed out of town after town." Temperance became, throughout the western and middle western states, a familiar subject of discussion, and the "Whiskey Power" began to be frightened. Ohio and Illinois seemed to be "going dry." Pennsylvania and even New York were swept by the revival; and everywhere, from Maine to Oregon, the women began to work. Day after day they went on, tramping from saloon to saloon. Often they were treated politely, often they were shut out and abused; in the GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 big towns they were mobbed in the streets and sometimes imprisoned. But whatever happened, they "forgot everything but God," and went steadily on with their work. "*They sang their Crusade hymns to the John Brown battle tunes, and began for the first time to learn something of the depravity and wickedness of the cities in which they lived. And it was this learning, and not the uncertain conversions they effected, that made the Crusade an important moral movement. Its value was not that they drove out drink and "pointed sinners to Jesus," for often the drink came back in a few months, and the sinners forgot they were saved; but the value was this, that the women remembered the lessons of the Crusade, and taught them to their daughters. "The Crusade being over, the women who had led it formed an association that would give permanence to the work, which they called the Woman's Christian Temperance Union." Woman's work went on winning after winning was made, culminating with the ratification of the Eighteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States, thus placing the temperance cause under the protection of the fundamental law of our country. How glorious this victory was may be seen in the following: Prohibition was not 'put over' by political wire-pulling: it was the result of overwhelming public sentiment. Three-fifths of our population were already living in 'dry' territory before the Amendment was passed; thirty-three of the forty-eight States had state-wide Prohibition. Moreover, no other amendment to the Federal Constitution was adopted by so many States (only two failed to ratify it) or by such large majorities in' the legislatures. If the moral status of this amendment is questionable, one hates to think of the moral status of some of the other amendments! There is at present a natural wavering of public opinion, owing to disgust at the very incomplete enforcement of the law, to a vigorous campaign of anti-prohibition propaganda, and to the general increase in the spirit of license following the War. But in spite of the very considerable amount of talking being done by opponents of the law, the elections continue to show strong preponderance of 'dry' sentiment; and there is no doubt that if a popular referendum were held it would sustain the law." (The New Morality?Drake, p. 104.) Questions and Problems 1. Discuss the statement: "Temperance is inseparable from a trained temper." 2. Give the scripture that promises protection from the "Destroying Angel."  3. How is Temperance related to temper? 4. Describe the Temperance movement previous to the organization of the W. C. T. U. 5. What woman, more than any other, is entitled to be called The Pioneer of Prohibition in the U. S.? Give reasons for your choice. 6. Contrast the forces behind our national temperance movement and the forces now behind it. 7. What has recently happened to justify the statement that "The Nineteenth Amendment saved the Eighteenth". For further information see the article on Frances Willard in the "Champions of Liberty," in the M. I. A. Manual, published in 1927-1928. LESSON II Work and Business (Third Week in April) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL?ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY Why THE LESSONS IN LITERATURE? I. Uplift. Literature brings to us: a. The best thoughts of the best minds. B. The most exalted feelings of the truest hearts. Professor Demmon of the University of Michigan used to say to his students, "When you think all that Tennyson thought and feel all that Tennyson felt, you may be said to read Tennyson with fill appreciation." II. Reality. There is a correlation between literature and life. A. Literature draws most of its material from life. Consequently it is a source from which we gain much knowledge of life. B. Literature preserves the past. The Bible is a good example of this class of literature. Ill. Variety. Literature helps us to become acquainted with people in many walks of life and with inhabitants of many climes. A. Literature reveals us to ourselves. B. Literature makes us acquainted with types wholly unlike ourselves?persons with backgrounds entirely different from our own, thus furnishing us with much interesting material for self-study and for comparison with the aims and hopes of others. C. Literature brings us to know certain varieties of life with GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105 which we may never have actual contact. - It thus broadens, deepens and immeasurably enlarges the horizon of our lives. IV. Style. Literature furnishes us with thoughts and emotions written and spoken in the most effective forms. A. Our choicest poetry is in this class. Much of our best prose and choicest drama is also included. B. It is from this grade of literature that we obtain our quotable passages popular with writers and speakers. For example: "Plato is a friend, Socrates is a friend, but truth is a greater friend than all." "To be able to enjoy in memory your former life is to live twice over." "As for the truth, it endureth, and is always strong; it liveth and conquereth forevermore." "A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels. "My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother." "The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion." "And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed." "He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree."  LESSON III Literature (Third Week in April) JOHN GALSWORTHY John Galsworthy, one of a group of brilliant British playwrights, was born in Coombe, Surrey, in 1867. His childhood was passed in a home of culture; his college education was obtained at Oxford, where he took a degree in law. The thought of his people was that he should follow law, but he became deeply interested in his fellowmen and very much aroused over the striking injustices of modern life; he therefore turned to literature, as law did not prove as much to his liking. He began his literary career with a group of novels, The Man of Property, The Country House, and Fraternity. Being among the best. In 1906, The Silver Box was produced in London; in 1907, Joy; in 1909, Strife, and in 1910, Justice. This group of plays established his reputation as one of the foremost writers of English drama of the day. The Skin Game, Old English, and Loyalties, are three of his later plays that have attracted a good deal of attention. JUSTICE ?BY JOHN GALSWORTHY Justice opens in the law office of James and Walter How. A young clerk by the name of Falder has changed a check, raising it from nine pounds to ninety. The officers have been brought i in and Mr. James and Walter How, members of the firm, are discussing the matter. We introduce the dialogue where the officer enters. Mr. James How says: Good morning, Mr. Cowley! Mr. Cowley responds: Good morning. Cokeson, an employee of the office (with stupefaction): Good morning. Walter: What are you going to do? James: Have him in. Give me the check and the counterfoil. Cokeson: I don't understand. I thought young Davis. James: We shall see. Walter: One moment, father: have you thought it out? James: Call him in! Cokeson (Rising with difficulty and opening Falder's door; hoarsely): Step in here a minute. Falder (Impassively): Yes, sir? James (Turning to him suddenly with the check held out): You know this check, Falder? Falder:. No, sir. James: Look at it. You cashed it last Friday week. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 107 Falder: Oh! Yes, sir; that one?Davis gave it to me. James: I know. And you gave Davis the cash? Falder: Yes, sir. James: When Davis gave you the check was it exactly like this? Falder: Yes, I think so, sir. James: You know that Mr. Walter drew that check for nine pounds? Falder: No, sir?ninety. James: Nine, Falder. Falder (Faintly): I don't understand, sir. James: The suggestion, of course, is that the check was altered; whether by you or Davis is the question. Falder: I?I?. Cokeson: Take your time, take your time. Falder (Regaining his impassivity): Not by me, sir. Falder makes an attempt to lay the blame on Mr. Davis, another member of the firm, who has left on an ocean voyage. It develops that the nought was added to the nine in the counterfoil on Tuesday and Mr. Davis had sailed on Monday, so that it was apparent that he had not done it. James: In the face of the evidence presented do you still deny that you altered both check and counterfoil? Falder: No, sir?no, Mr. How.: I did it, sir; I did it. Mr. James How, the elder member of the firm, who is a keen defender of the law, despite his son's suggestion that this is Falder's first offense and his quotation of Shakespeare's famous lines, "the quality of mercy is not strained," insists on Falder's arrest. As Detective-Sergeant Wister goes toward Falder the latter recoils. Falder: Oh! No,?oh! No! Wister: Come, come, there's a good lad. James: I charge him with felony. Falder: Oh, sir! There's someone?I did it for her. Let me be till tomorrow. Act II gives us the court scene. We have here one of the best court scenes in our literature. Mr. Galsworthy's training in law is evident all through. We are introduced to Ruth, the woman referred to by Falder at the moment of his arrest. When Ruth visited the office and Cokeson, the clerk, tried to keep her from Falder, she declared that it was a matter of life and death. Here are some of the things she said to Falder at that meeting. Ruth (In a low, hurried voice): He's on the drink again. Will. He tried to cut my throat last night. I came out with the children before he was awake. I went round to you?. Falder: I?ve changed my digs. Ruth: Is it all ready for tonight?  Falder: I've got the tickets. Meet me at 11:45 at the booking office. Don't forget we're man and wife! (Looking at her with tragic intensity) Ruth! Ruth: You're not afraid of going, are you? Falder: Have you got your things, and the children's? Ruth: Had to leave them, for fear of waking Honeywill, all but one bag. I can't gu near home again. Falder (Wincing): All that money gone for nothing. How much must you have? Ruth: Six pounds?l could do with that, I think. Valder: Don't give away where we're going. (As if to himself.) When I get out there I mean to forget it all. Ruth: If you're sorry, say so. I'd sooner he killed me than take you against your will.. Falder (With a queer smile): We've got to go. I don't care; I'll have you. - Ruth: You've just to say; it's not too late. Falder: It is too late. Here's seven pounds. Booking office?11:45 tonight. If you weren't what you are to me, Ruth?! Ruth: Kiss me! (They cling together passionately, then fly apart just as Cokeson re-enters the room. Ruth turns and goes out through the outer office. Cokeson advances deliberately to his chair and seats himself. ) In this conversation we get at the heart of the matter. Ruth Hloneywill is the victim of the outrages of a drunken husband and she has told the story of her bitter life to Falder. Filled with sympathy he makes love to her and attempts to take her away from England where later they can become husband and wife and he can assume the responsibility of her family. This is the condition that brought about the temptation that caused Falder to change the check. Despite the plea of his attorney Falder is sentenced. Falder is called up for sentence. The Clerk: Prisoner at the bar, you stand convicted of felony. Have you anything to say for yourself, why the Court should not give you judgment according to law? Falder shakes his head. The Judge: William Falder, you have been given fair trial and found guilty, in my opinion rightly found guilty, of forgery. You are a clerk in a lawyer's office?that is a very serious element in this case; there can be no possible excuse for you on the ground that you were not fully conversant with the nature of the crime you were committing and the penalties that attach to it. The crime you have committed is a very serious one. I cannot feel it in accordance with my duty to Society to exercise the powers I have in your favor. You will go to penal servitude for three years. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 109 (Falder, who throughout the Judge's speech has looked at him steadily, lets his head fall forward on his breast. Ruth starts up from her seat as he is taken out by the warders. There is a bustle in court.) ? In act three we have the prison scene. Cokeson, the managing clerk, has been to the prison to visit Falder and is considerably upset at what he sees. He goes to the governor, or what in this country would be called the warden, of the prison, to make some suggestions in relation to Falder's treatment carried forth by the following dialogue: Cokeson: I'm sorry to trouble you. I've been talking to the young man. The Governor: We have a good many here. Cokeson: Name of Falder, forgery. (Producing a card and handing it to the Governor.) Firm of James and Walter How. Well known in the law. The Governor (Receiving the card with a faint smile): What do you want to see me about, sir? Cokeson (Suddenly seeing the prisoners at exercise): Why! What a sight! The Governor: Yes, we have that privilege from here; my office is being done up. (Sitting down at his table) Now, please! Cokeson (Dragging his eyes with difficulty from the window): I wanted to say a word with you; I shant keep you long. (Confidentially) Fact is, I oughtn't to be here by rights. His sister came to me?he's got no father and mother?and she was in some distress.. "My husband won't let tne go and see him," she asid; "says he's disgraced the family. And his other sister," she said. "is an invalid." And she asked me to come. Well, I take an interest in him. He was our junior?I go to the same chapel? and I didn't like to refuse. And what I wanted to tell you was, he seems lonely here. The Governor: Not unnaturally. Cokeson: I'm afraid it'll prey on my mind. I see a lot of them about working together. The Governor: Those are local prisoners. The convicts serve their three months here in separate confinement, sir. Cokeson: But we don't want to be unreasonable. He's quite downhearted. I wanted to ask you to let him run about with the others. The Governor (With faint amusement): Ring the bell? would you, Miller? (To Cokeson) You'd like to hear what the doctor says about him, perhaps. The Chaplain (Ringing the bell): You are not accustomed to prisons, it would seem, sir. Cokeson: No. But it's a pitiful sight. He's quite a young fellow. I said to him: "Before a month's up," I said, "you'll  be out and about with the others; it'll be a nice change for you." "A month!" he said?like that!" "Come!" I said, "we mustn't exaggerate. What's a month? Why it's nothing!" "A day," he said, "shut up in your cell thinking and brooding as I do, it's longer than a year outside. I can't help it,' he said; "I try?but I'm built that way, Mr. Cokeson." And he held his hand up to his face. I, could see the tears trickling through his fingers. It wasn't nice. The Chaplain: He's a young man with large, rather peculiar eyes, isn't he? Not Church of England, I think? Cokeson: No. The Chaplain: I know. The Governor (To Wooder, who has come in): Ask the doctor to be good enough to come here for a minute. (Wooder salutes and goes out.) Let's see, he's not married? Cokeson: No, (Confidentially) But there's a party he's very much attached to, not altogether com-il-fo. It's a sad story. The Chaplain: If it wasn't for drink and women, sir, this prison might be closed. Cokeson (Looking at the Chaplain over his spectacles): Ye-es, but I wanted to tell you about that special. He had hopes they'd have let her come and see him, but they haven't. Of course he asked me questions. I did my best, but I couldn't tell the poor young fellow a lie, with him in here?seemed like hitting him. 3ut I'm afraid it's made him worse. The Governor: What was this news then? Cokeson: Like this. The woman has a nasty, spiteful feller for a husband, and she's left him. Fact is, she was going away with our young friend. It's not nice?but I've looked over it. Well, when he was put in here she said she'd earn her living apart, and wait for him to come out. That was a great consolation to him. But after a month she came to me?I don't know her personally?and she said: "I can't earn the children's living, let alone my own?I've got no friends. I'm obliged to keep out of everybody's way, else my husband get to know where I was. I?m very much reduced," she said. And she has lost flesh. "T'll have to go in the workhouse!" It's a painful story. I said to her: "No," I said, "not that! I've got a wife an' family, but sooner than you should do that I'll spare you a little my self." "Really," she said?she's a nice creature?''I don't like to take it from you. I think I'd better go back to my husband." Well, I know he's a nasty, spiteful feller?drinks?but I didn't like to persuade her not to. The Chaplain: Surely, no. Cokeson: Ye-es, but I'm sorry now; it's upset the poor young fellow dreadfully. And what I wanted to say was: He's got his three years to serve. I want things to be pleasant for him. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 111 The Chaplain (With a touch of impatience): The Law hardly shares your view, I'm afraid. Cokeson: But I can't help thinking that to shut him up there by himself I'll turn him silly. And nobody wants that, s'pose. I don't like to see a man cry. The Chaplain: It's a very rare thing for them to give way like that. Cokeson (Looking at him?in a tone of sudden dogged hostility.) I keep dogs. The Chaplain: Indeed? Cokeson: Ye-es. And I say this: I wouldn't shut one of them up all by himself, month after month, not if he'd bit me all over. The Chaplain: Unfortunately, the criminal is not a dog; he has a sense of right and wrong. Cokeson: But that's not the way to make him feel it. The Chaplain: Ah! There I'm afraid we must differ. Cokeson: It's the same with dogs. If you treat 'em with kindness they'll do anything for you; but to shut 'em up alone, it only makes 'em savage. The Chaplain: Surely you should allow those who have had a little more experience than yourself to know what is best for prisoners. Cokeson (Doggedly): I know this young feller, I've watched him for years. He's neurotic?got no stamina. His father died of consumption. I'm thinking of his future. If he's to be kept there shut up by himself, without a cat to keep him company, it'll do him harm. I said to him: ''Where do you feel it?" "I can't tell you, Mr. Cokeson," he said, "but sometimes I could beat my head against the wall." It's not nice. The Governor: This gentleman thinks the separate is telling on QO 3007?Falder, young "thin fellow, star class. What do you say. Doctor Clements? The Doctor: He doesn't like it, but it's not doing him any harm. Cokeson: But he's told me. The Doctor: Of course he'd say so, but we can always tell. He's lost no weight since he's been here. Cokeson: It's his state of mind I'm speaking of. The Doctor: His mind's all tight so far. He's nervous, rather melancholy. I don't see signs of anything more. I'm watching him carefully. Cokeson: I'm glad to hear you say that. The Chaplain: It's just at this period that we are able to make some impression on them, sir. I am speaking from my special standpoint.  Cokeson: I don't want to be unpleasant, but having given him this news, I do feel it's awkward. The Governor: I'll make a point of seeing him today. Cokeson: I'm much obliged to you. I thought perhaps seeing him every day you wouldn't notice it. The Governor: If any sign of injury to his health shows itself, his case will be reported at once. That's fully provided for. Cokeson: Of course, what you don't see doesn't trouble you; but having seen him, I don't want to have him on my mind. The Governor: I think you may safely leave it to us, sir. Cokeson: J thought you'd understand me. I'm a plain man? never set myself up against authority. Nothing personal meant. Good morning. The Chaplain: Our friend seems to think that prison is a hospital. Cokeson (Returning suddenly with an apologetic air): There's just one little thing. This woman?I suppose I mustn't ask you to let him see her. It'd be a rare treat for them both. He's thinking about her all the time. Of course she's not his wife. But he's quite safe in here. They're a pitiful couple. You couldn't make an exception? The Governor: As you say, my dear sir, I couldn't make an exception; he won't be allowed another visit of any sort till he goes to a convict prison. Despite the protest made by the governor, the chaplain and the prison doctor, Falder comes out of prison changed very much for the worse both mentally and physically. In act four he is given work by a man who understands conditions; but the other people learn of his past and make it so disagreeable for him that he cannot continue. Then he finds work again but loses it because of the difficulty of references. One day Ruth happens on to him in the park. She is so upset at his thin, emanciated look that she goes to his old firm and pleads with Cokeson to try to do something for him. There is a vacancy and Cokeson has hopes that Falder will be considered for the position. Walter, who has always been sympathetic to Falder, says: I think we owe him a leg up. | James: He brought it all on himself. Walter: The doctrine of full responsibility doesn't hold in these days. James (Rather grimly): You'll find it safer to hold it for all that, my boy. Walter: For oneself, yes?not for other people, thanks. James: Well, I don't want to be hard. Mr. James How has Falder come up to the office and they talk matters over. He insists that if he is accepted again in their law firm that he must give Ruth up. Falder says he cannot; GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 113 that it is the one thing for which he looked forward to all during his imprisonment. He assures Mr. James and Walter How that nothing of an immeral nature has ever occured between them. He says that if they had money she could get a divorce and they could be married, and he could take care of her. Mr. Walter How says that he thinks that he can furnish the money. When Cokeson visited Falder while he was in prison he told him that Ruth had asked about going back to her husband. When she entered the office this morning before Falder, Cokeson got her story. She said that her husband treated her worse than ever; that when he had broken her health he began mistreating her children and as she could not stand that she left him and made an effort to keep them by sewing. That although she worked until midnight she only made ten shillings a week, which is equal to $2.50 in United States money, and that, of course, would not support her children. They were growing thin and were impoverished and as she had no one to turn to, her father having been very much displeased because of her marriage to Honeywill, her employer happened along and she accepted the situation as a means of supporting her children. She tells Cokeson that, whatever else she has done, she has been able to keep her children. While Falder is insisting that if he had the money he could get a divorce and all would be well, there is something in the looks of the men who surround him that makes him suddenly aware that all is not right. Ruth promises Mr. James How that she will leave him alone. This does not add particularly to Falder's comfort. While Falder is getting some notion of what has happened to Ruth, Detective Wister happens in again, saying that Falder is only on parole and that for a number of weeks he has not made a report.
James: What do you want with him? Wister: He's failed to report himself this last four weeks. Walter: How d'you mean? Wister: Ticket-of-leave won't be up for another six months, sir. Walter: Has he to keep in touch with the police till then? Wister: We're bound to know where he sleeps every night. I dare say we shouldn't interfere, sir, even though he hasn't reported himself. But we've just heard there's a serious matter of obtaining employment with a forged reference. What with the two things together?we must have him.
Mr. James How does what he can to shield Falder, but Wister takes him and Ruth faints. While they are seeking to revive Ruth, they note Wister and Sweedle are carrying some burden. Wister supplies the information by saying: He jumped. Neck's broken.
Walter: Good God! Wister: He must have been mad to think he could give me the slip like that. And what was it?just a few months! Walter (Bitterly): Was that all? James: What a desperate thing! (Then, in a voice unlike his own) Run for a doctor?you! An ambulance!
Wister goes out. On Ruth's face an expression of fear and horror has been seen growing, as if she dared not turn towards the voices. She now rises and steals towards them.
Walter (Turning suddenly): Look.
The three men shrink back out of her way, one by one, into Cokeson's room. Ruth drops on her knees by the body.
Ruth (In a whisper): What is it? He's not breathing. (She crouches over him.) My dear! My pretty!
In the outer office doorway the figures of men are seen standing.
Ruth (Leaping to her feet): No! No! No, no! He's dead! (The figures of the men shrink back.)
Cokeson (Stealing forward. In a hoarse voice): There, there, poor dear woman! (At the sound behind her Ruth faces round at him.)
Cokeson: No one'll touch him now! Never again! He's safe with gentle Jesus!
The Problem of the Play
There is much irony in the title of this play. Galsworthy calls it "Justice," to be sure, but it is such justice as the law provides. Galsworthy would have us recognize that legal justice is not necessarily real justice, and he presents the case to us that we may judge for ourselves. Relief Society workers have been interested in the prison problem. Galsworthy presents a prison problem here. There is a good deal of discussion today about various phases of the law. This play is a good example of a wise saying that has come to us out of the past, that "the letter killeth and the spirit giveth life." Falder aimed to do a good thing but he does it in a bad way, and those who should be his helpers fail to extend the mercy which seemed rightly his. Ruth strives to take care of her children until Falder returns from prison, but meets an economic situation that makes the thing impossible, consequently she sacrifices her honor for the sake of her children, but she can see no other way out. Is she wholly to blame? Falder when out of prison is required to furnish references in order to obtain employment. He is unable to do so and forges a reference. Is he solely to blame? The law is rigidly enforced by officers who do not feel that they are justified in taking into account motives. The result is that Falder is driven to his death and Ruth becomes a dishonored mother. Galsworthy intends that his audience shall sympathize with both Falder and Ruth, hoping as a result that an attempt will be made to do something that will prevent men and women from being victimized as Ruth and Falder were, because of social and economic conditions. The problem in this lesson takes the place of the usual problems and questions.
LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in April)
THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE
Lesson 13. Provisions for Mentally Superior Children. (Based on Chapter 14, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.)
Since the preceding lesson which was devoted to the question of intellectual inferiority, it seems logical that we now consider the intellectually superior child. This very able chapter was prepared by Dr. Leta S. Hollingworth, Professor of Education, Teachers' College, Columbia University. Dr. Hollingworth is a woman of unusual attainment; she has written extensively on the subject of special abilities and disabilities in school children.
A. How Many Children Are Superior?
Since the advent of intelligence tests it has been possible to compare the intelligence scores of school children in large numbers. Hundreds of thousands of tests in this country have yielded the following distribution of intelligence, which may be regarded as fairly applicable to most communities.
Distribution of Brightness and Dullness in Children
I. Q. Percent. Of (Intelligence All Children Quotient) Gifted.............................Above 140 0.25 Very Superior......................120 ? 140 6.75 Superior...........................110 ? 120 13.00 Average............................90 ? 110 60.00 Dull...............................80 ? 90 13.00 Borderline.........................70 ? 80 6.00 Feebleminded.......................Below 70 1.00 100%
*The Intelligence Quotient is derived as follows: M. A. (Mental Age) C. A. (Chronological Age) = I. Q.
For further information on mental testing see Lewis M. Terman, "The Measurement of Intelligence," Houghton-Mifflin Co., Boston; or Rudolph Pinter, "Intelligence Testing," Holt & Co., New York.
It will be noted from the table that about twenty per cent of all school children can be said to be superior. As this superiority increases, the number and proportion of other children decreases. That is to say that while 13 per cent of school children may roughly be said to have an intelligence quotient of 110-120, yet only 7 per cent of children can be said to have intelligence quotients about 120. Stated differently, this means that 20 out of 100 school children selected at random are of such superiority as to demand special educational facilities and guidance. Again this means that about six children out of the average hundred are of such superiority as to warrant even more flexible classification and more intensified guidance in the schools. The word "gifted," it will be noted, is usually confined to those whose intelligence quotient is 140 and above. This distinction, however, is so rare that it probably appears in only (about) two out of every thousand school children.
For reasons which Dr. Hollingworth makes plain, one should guard against assuming that every community will have intelligence distributed according to the above general formula. In this, as in all other forms of statistical generalization, it should be remembered that many small groups can be found in which the expected distribution does not appear. It is a statistical rule, applicable here, that such generalizations are valid in proportion as the number of children considered is large; and invalid in proportion as the group is small.
B. Terman's Study of Genius
A few years ago the Commonwealth Fund of New York City set aside a large sum of money for the study of genius. Dr. Lewis M. Terman, of mental-testing fame, was awarded these research funds in order to study the mental and physical traits of a thousand gifted children. These children were sought out from the school populations of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oakland, and included all children with an I. Q. of 140 or above. The method was to ascertain and measure as many other characteristics of these children as could possibly be determined?race, height, weight, school progress, play interests, character, status of parents. The results of this very interesting study* are
*"The Genetic Studies of Genius," Volume 1, Stanford University Press.
summarized in Dr. Terman's conclusions, from which the following extracts are taken:
"There is no shred of evidence to support the widespread opinion * * * that the intellectually precocious child is weak, undersized, or nervously unstable."
"In a majority of cases the superior or gifted child is evidenced at an early age. Among the most commonly mentioned indications are intellectual curiosity, wealth of miscellaneous information, and desire to learn to read."
"A majority of (these) children * * * had the advantage of superior cultural influence in the home."
"It is evidently a rare experience for a gifted child to be given work * * * commensurate with his intellectual abilities."
"The one-sidedness of precocious children is mythical."
"The common opinion that intellectually superior children are characterized by deficiency of play interests has been shown to be wholly unfounded."
"The play interests of the gifted boy are above, rather than below, the normal in degree of 'masculinity'." (Contrary to the popular view that a "bright boy" is necessarily a "sissy.")
"These (gifted children) surpass unselected children in tests of honesty, trustworthiness, and similar moral traits."
"One of the most astonishing facts brought out in this investigation is that one's best chance of identifying the brightest child in a school room is to examine the birth records and select the youngest, rather than to take the one rated as brightest by the teacher."
C. The Guidance of Superior Children
The last-quoted statement from Dr. Terman's conclusions, that superior children are apt to be unnoticed by the teacher, is very significant for parents and school-workers generally. This means that many superior children are not only unknown to their parents and their teachers, but are also inadequately provided for in the home and in the school.
The most important corollary of these and other well-known facts in regard to superior children is that they should be given tasks and stimulation commensurate with their abilities. It is a well-known principle that unless children are supplied with tasks which challenge their best and greatest abilities, they are prone to become disinterested and poorly adjusted. Many children of superior ability develop a distaste for school and for education generally, and later become delinquent, because of the failure of teachers and parents to furnish tasks which challenge their capacity.
There is another danger in this characteristic failure to stimulate superior children up to the point of their capacity, and that is in regard to what may be called the feeling or attitude of superiority. It does not take a superior child very long to discover the difference between his own ability and that of other children. If, throughout his school career, he is required to compete with his inferior associates he will naturally develop a warped sense of his own superiority. If, on the other hand, he is placed in competition with children of his own mental ability, he will be less likely to develop this unwholesome attitude of superiority.
This brings us to a consideration of the best methods of dealing with superior children in the public schools. There are several ways by which this problem can be met by the forward-looking school system. The commonest method is for the superior children of a given age to be organized into a special group within the grade and labeled "Group 1," or "Section A," or "B". In this way the curriculum can be enriched and the teacher can supply tasks and furnish guidance to challenge the child's ability.
A second method, also very common, is to promote the child as fast as he completes the work of a given grade. While this scheme has many advantages, it has the serious disadvantage, especially in the case of pre-adolescent children, of super-inducing precocity on the social and sexual side.
A third method, the most superior of them all, although the most costly, is the method of individual instruction. At Winnetka, Illinois, for instance, all children are given an opportunity to travel through the school at their own rate. They are classified and promoted in terms of their ability in specific subjects, and not, as is usually the case in the public schools, in terms of their chronological or mental age.
Superior children should, of course, not be "crowded." Neither should they be held back and forced to mark time merely because the school organization is inadequate to cope with individual differences. That school system is best which, irrespective of method or organization, makes possible the maximum development of each child according to his general intelligence, and his special abilities or disabilities.
QUESTIONS
1. What are the signs of superiority in infants, children, adolescents?
2. Why is it that parents usually underestimate the superiority of their superior children?
3. What is significant in the fact that children who do well in school are larger and stronger than those who do poorly?
4. Do superior children tend to become superior adults?
5. How do you explain the fact that parents of superior children usually produce comparatively small families?
6. How do you harmonize the facts of individual differences with the theory of democracy? Criticize the proposition: "Schools cannot equalize children; schools can only equalize opportunity?"
7. What provision do the schools in your community make for superior, for very superior, and for gifted children?
"No lady can have a better safeguard against adversities of fortune or a better recourse in time of need than a knowledge of business affairs." ? Harriet Beecher Stowe.
?the practical courses in this school prepare you for rapid advancement.
L. D. S. Business College
Write today for full particulars.
ENTER ANY MONDAY
Complete Printing and Binding Service
OFFICE AND BANK RULING AND FORMS BOOK BINDING
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.?Write us about them.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Is Your House in Order:
Don't let 1929 slip by like the past years have done?with your family's destiny a question?Beneficial Life Insurance puts the future on a definite basis and removes those dreaded dangers.
Participating Insurance at Low Non-Participating Rates
This participating benefit is extended to every policyholder of the Beneficial, the old as well as the new?All will share in the profits of the Company.
Our Juvenile insurance is written on the standard form basis, giving insurance for the children that is really worth while.
It is now possible for the entire family to be protected by BENEFICIAL INSURANCE.
It will pay you to see the local representative of the BENEFICIAL who will be pleased to furnish, without obligation, information and advice on your insurance problems.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Home Office Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City THE BIG HOME COMPANY Heber J. Grant, President
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine