2 EDITORIAL The Care of the Feeble-Minded The 'Relief Society is pleased to note that in Governor Dern's inaugural address made at the Capitol Building January 7, 1929, he did not fail to mention the feeble-minded. Under a paragraph stating that the morals of the people are influenced, not alone by the home atmosphere but also by the community atmosphere, Governor Dern says that a phase of governmental activity is the care of the unfortunate and the under-privileged, including in this paragraph the insane and feeble-minded. This is in line with the intensive work done by the Relief Society in its social service lessons, its fall conventions and its present work of circtilating petitions. For many months past the social service lessons have sought to meet the child's needs and in these lessons the child of lesser endowments has come in for its share of consideration along with the child that is normally situated and can receive normal care. The General Board members went out to conventions this fall with a carefully prepared address covering the situation of the mentally handicapped. The topic emphasized the care of the feeble-minded, stating that they deserve every consideration that can be given them for development in order that they may have the opportunity to be part of the life into which they have been  born. The address stressed the fact that every state should furnish adequate facilities in buildings, equipment, as also persons suitably trained to instruct these people who will become a fpart of the most complex civilization that the world has seen. It pointed out that if the feeble-minded are not cared for according to the best knowledge available, some of them, like all children who lack opportunity whether classed as normal or otherwise, will become vicious and further aggravate crime and delinquency, which presents one of the most terrifying of present day problems. The last step on the part of the Relief Society has been to authorize the circulation of petitions, to the end that all persons who are interested in the state's providing appropriate surroundings and helpful training for the feeble-minded shall have an opportunity to indicate their interest by their signatures. We trust that the legislature will make use of the opportunity that lies before it by doing a much needed piece of welfare work for the State of Utah. The citizens of this state are keenly interested in welfare work. They are thoroughly aroused to the necessity of a legislative act which shall provide for the care of the feeble-minded, and nothing short of such an enactment will satisfy them. With welfare workers it is the paramount issue. To use the words of a crusader, it is the burning cause?a cause in which all welfare workers are crusaders. Committed by the nature of its work to the welfare of the unfortunate, the Relief Society joins hand and heart with all other social organizations in their appeal for legislative enactment that shall make adequate and proper provision for the feeble-minded.