A Report of the Care of the Feeble-Minded in Utah By the Utah Society for Mental Hygiene On page seventeen in the Bureau of Census Report on FeebleMinded and Epileptics in State institutions to the Department of Commerce occurs the following statement: "There are at the present time only four states, Arizona, Arkansas, Nevada and Utah, that have not provided a state institution for their feebleminded. Since the above mentioned report was printed at Washington in 1926, Arkansas has established state care for her feebleminded. Shall Utah, again, draw uncomplimentary notice in the next census as one of three states, or perhaps the solitary state, that lags behind in providing care and training for her most unfortunate residents? Utah does provide for her insane, her deaf and dumb, and for her blind. And the true state of our social consciousness is not indexed by our failure to provide a state institution for the feeble-minded; for our various civic, county, club, professional, patriotic, and our religious groups, through their several welfare organizations, do relieve the most pressing physical needs of the indigent feeble-minded persons scattered over our state. There are, however, many feeble-minded children who require custodial care and training which no system of outdoor relief can ever provide. Such children should not be permitted to wander about the streets. UTAH SHOULD PROVIDE Numerous citizens who, by their professional, social and economic interest in our feeble-minded class have acquired definite knowledge concerning them, believe that Utah, if she is to remain in the ranks of progressive statehood, must now provide some means by which this group can be trained to draw its own weight; at least in part. It has become economically urgent that all higher grade feeble-minded children be trained to perform some self-respecting work. It must not be inferred that all our feeble-minded children are indigent. Many are in the families of well-to-do citizens who are both willing and anxious to provide the intensive training needful in establishing habits that will make life less difficult for their mentally handicapped children. Unable to secure this much needed training in Utah for their children, some families have CARE OF THE FEEBLE-MINDED 73 moved to California. Others have sent their children to schools in Colorado, in Oklahoma, and in Iowa for training. Professional men are greatly concerned by the distress of parents who, recognizing that their defective children must have training which they, themselves, are unable to give, yet are economically unable to send them outside the state to be trained in some form of useful activity. There are many of these children of school age in Utah who are not provided for. Disastrous EXPERIENCES Many socially disastrous experiences of neglected high-grade feeble-minded individuals are related by social workers who aften contact them in some conflict with organized society. And because the particular individual concerned is neither insane, deaf and dumb, nor blind, he does not draw public sympathy. His mental blindness, which impels him to take the wrong turning, does not show. To the average citizen the feeble-minded transgressor with the mental age of eight years looks about like everyone else. Then his physical and his social experiences may be advanced. He looks as if he ought to have judgment. Yet he was born without the capacity to foresee the consequences of his own anti-social acts. Lack of success in the school-room makes the mentally defective child unhappy, restless, and frequently, delinquent. His home life may be economically depressed. When he reaches the limits of his capacity to learn in the class-room, and has neither a job nor the endurance to stay in school, the truant officers may do the only thing left for them to provide some care for the misfit? they may turn him over to the Juvenile Court. One such boy became a ward of the court under the following circumstances: he was a confirmed truant with the chronological age of eleven and the mental age of eight. His mother was a moron drug addict. No matter how much money his industrious father earned the children never had enough satisfying food. Various persons attempted to do something with the family, but they would not break it up in time to salvage the children. All the children stole whenever hunger pressed them too savagely. The older girls, with their mother's approval, became prostitutes. The boy already mentioned and his older brother became wards of the Juvenile Court, both progressing through the Detention Home, the Industrial wochool, the City and County jails to the Penitentiary. The younger boy is a killer. Whenever he is hungry he holds up the first person that crosses his path. So far, nothing but his own poor aim has saved him from choosing whether he would rather be shot himself than hanged. He has served two terms in our prison and is now at large. Although this boy has been a ward of the state of Utah ever since he was eleven years old, he is still  untrained to earn his living. When a small boy he liked shop work, and might, at one time, have been trained into social and economic usefulness. FEEBLE-MINDED GIRLS The untrained feeble-minded girl, if pretty, soon becomes the victim of depraved persons of both sexes. She may find work in a factory; but since she has had no preliminary training in certain mechanical processes, she is not successful. It takes her too long to learn simple movements. When she is discharged she may find employment in the less-skilled departments of steam laundries. The work is apt to be hard for her even there. If she has a pretty dress, she will attend public dance halls in company with other girls. She is certain to be "spotted." It is not long before she becomes a sex-delinquent?a patient at the clinics and at the county hospitals. Sometimes, before she ever reaches the hospital, she has been employed as a mother's helper where there are small children and has left a trail of disease behind her. Sometimes she disappears altogether. Frequently the least prepossessing of the feeble-minded girls give birth to illegitimate babies, either in private homes or in public hospitals. Though sometimes they do keep. Their babies, they more frequently, for a consideration, are persuaded to part. With them to incautious or unscrupulous people for adoption. Even bootleggers use babies for some particular camouflaging purposes. Though there has been as yet no complete survey of all the feeble-minded persons in our state, when Dr. George L. Wallace, Director of the Committee on Mental Hygiene in the United States, made an investigation in Utah, he reported that the state's percentage of feeble-minded was probably from one to one and onehalf per cent of the total population. (The average percentage of such population throughout the United States is from one to two per cent.) According to Doctor Wallace's estimate, there would be about five hundred children in Utah in pressing need of custodial care.. The high-grade feeble-minded child has an intelligence quotient around seventy. To keep him in the school-room when he is in need of more intensive training in the formation of right social habits than our public schools are now prepared to give, makes him a gource of wasted taxation. Feeble-minded children must be trained into self-support. No public school in Utah is prepared to give the necessary twenty-four-hours-a-day training in right social habits, or in self-supporting work to feeble-minded children. And the recent acceptance of this fact, that while intelligence does limit the feeble-minded child's field, it does not say what crops shall be grown in that field, is determining what CARE OF THE FEEBLE-MINDED 75 care progressive states are providing for their least fortunate children. Utah does expend moneys generously for all her children. But the opportunities open to the definitely feeble-minded child in our fine public schoolrooims are unsuited to his capacities. He needs training in habits and in useful work. It behooves Utah to take intelligent self-interest in this problem of providing an institution for her feeble-minded. It is not so much a question of state pride; the social and the economic cost to our state of neglecting to train this class, is mounting rapidly. Gifts By Claire Stewart Boyer Once when Fate stripped me of my velvet hopes And made me walk barefoot through desert sands, Wounding my feet on prickly pears of pride, Carrying stinging fears in aching hands, I heard the call to prayer, and in that hour, Kneeling, I found a pitying, cloud-white flower. Once when the siren city drank me in And dragged me through the deepest of despair, I wandered like a mad-man through its streets, Then sank upon the church steps cold and bare To summon courage for disaster's end, The portals opened, and there stood?a friend. Once Fortune masqueraded for my sake And let me to its tinselled festival; It dazzled me with homage all unasked, It gave me wealth and fame and love and all, "Can God be here?" I cried, "In such a place?" I raised my eyes and lo, God showed His face. To those who ask it shall be given still; To those with faith like to a mustard seed, Their mountains shall be moved forever hence; The sinner, penitent, from sin be freed; God gives His three eternal gifts of grace To those who seek?a flower, a friend, His face.