[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | March | Issue: 16 | Title: LOOSE THE BANDS. | Author: Unknown]

LOOSE THE BANDS.

List! the song of exultation, (chronicled in sacred pages)
List! the Bards triumphal Anthem—singing through a
	thousand ages!
List, the joyful exhortation—full of promise, hope and
	trust—
"Loose Thy Bands, Oh captive daughters! lift thyself from
	out the dust,"
Loose the bands; Oh captive Daughters, captive Wives
	and captive Mothers;
Life yourselves, 'tis fatal folly, to entirely count on others;
Loose the bands, Oh captive Daughters—claim the privilege
	to be free:
Speed the day of Woman's Glory. Hail! approaching
	Liberty!
			CHORUS:
Loose the bands, Oh captive Daughters—claim the privi-
	lege to be free;
Speed the day of Woman's Glory. Hail! approaching
	Liberty!

Answer! Oh ye captive daughters, answer ev'ry thought-
	ful woman—
Wherefore are we kept in bondage, are we counted strictly
	human?
Born, like men, all free and equal— wherefore are we forced 
	to fight—
Wherefore are we forced to wrestle, for a natural needful
	Right?


In the sacred name of freedom, for the sake of simple
	justice—
With the common right of Suffrage, can't a mighty nation
	trust us?
Oh ye favor'd Sons of Freedom—be magnanimous and
	just;—
Need the "Weaker Vessel" always be compell'd to kiss
	the dust?
			CHORUS.
Apathy, pretends to patience—while conditions harsh and
	hoary—
While oppressive senseless Statutes, mar a nation's name
	and glory;
Antiquated, wrongful Edicts—must be speedily repeal'd;
Woman's Right, must be conceded, Serfdom must to
	Freedom yield;
Join the ranks—and raise the Banner of the Woman Suf-
	frage Army?
Never mind the shafts of envy, never mind the tempests
	stormy;
Liberty! is worth a struggle, worth the cost whate'er it
	be,
Can we ever overvalue, Nature's noblest Legacy?
			CHORUS.
Wiser grows the world—and faster—much is done, and 
	much endeavor'd,
All humanity, rejoices, that the Negro's bonds are sever'd.
Now, in the behalf of progress, as a crowning act of grace—
Let, Consistency, forever, free the Mothers of the Race;
Doubtless, Woman's "Legal Status" is a farce, and noth-
	ing better;
Yet, withal, some "Foolish Virgins" would not loose a
	single fetter;
Wrest from man, the Right of Suffrage—an indignant hosts
	you'd see;
Loose the bands! Oh captive daughters—Hail! approach-
	ing Liberty!
			CHORUS.
