[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 852 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Messages— Message 6— The Meaning of Worship | ]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By Message 6—The Meaning of Worship Northern Hemisphere: First week, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First week, August 1971 OBJECTIVE: To refresh our understanding of the meaning of worship. In one of the European missions a district conference was being held in a small, crowded chapel. A fine Lamanite opera singer was in attendance. The mission president asked him to sing one of the hymns as a solo. A member was asked to help him find an accompanist and arrange for a brief rehearsal. As the rehearsal ended, the member noticed that the opera singer was pale and trembling. "I'm surprised," she said, "to see you so upset. I have heard you sing before large crowds and prominent people, and you always have exhibited poise and self-confidence." "Ah," - replied the opera star, "that was different. I have little anxiety when I sing before men, but I am overwhelmed when I sing before God." Few people who heard that glorious tenor voice fill the small chapel with praise to our Lord will ever forget that moment of worship. Worship is giving reverence and divine honors to God. Man has found many ways to do this. Some claim they worship best in the forest, in the garden, before a great painting, at a concert, or reading a good book. For centuries the devout Jew twice a day has prayed, "Hear, O Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord." (Deut. 6:4.) 852 In Jesus' day it was apparently the custom for the Jews to go to the temple to pray. We read in Luke 18:10-14: Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as _ this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Here the Savior taught us not to attract the attention of others as we worship nor to proclaim our self-righteousness. We should pray in a humble, repentant manner, asking for mercy and help. To worship is to give homage to God, not to exalt oneself. Elsewhere the Savior taught that prayer is to be in secret: "But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly." (Matt. 6:6.) In Matthew, chapter five, the Savior taught that not only are we to forgive everyone his trespasses, we are not to worship if he has ought against us until we have gone to him and been reconciled. Again the Lord has given us the responsibility to be our brother's keeper, to be conLesson Department cerned with him even as we worship our God. In our day we have been enjoined also to "go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." (D&C 59:9.) It is not enough to worship alone; in addition, we are to worship together. We are to worship, then, both in secret and in the Lord's house of prayer.