[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 874 | General Feature | Cultural Refinement— Lesson 5— Principles With a Promise— Faith and Optimism | ]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—Principles With a Promise—Faith and Optimism Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage a woman to exercise faith and optimism as illustrated in the writings of Robert Browning. MUSIC COMMENTARY The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 5. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists-as to the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Eternal Life Dugan—Stickles 323-4009 Lo, Thou Art Near 1009 SSA 1 Am a Child of God (Sing with Me, p. B-76.) I Know That My Redeemer Lives (Hymns, no. 361.) INTRODUCTION TO LESSON One of the great poets of the world and one whose poetry embraces ideals and philosophy harmonious with our Church ideals and doctrines is Robert Browning (1812-1889). Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books, enough selections from Browning's poetry are included to make this an excellent and stimulating lesson, especially as it relates to women, by showing how their lives may be enriched and made more meaningful. RESPONSES TO WORKS OF BROWNING The following comments are 874 Ranghild L. Safsten— Mary D. Safsten Naomi W. Randall— Mildred T. Pettit Medley—Edwards Publisher The John Church Co., Subsidiary of Theodore Presser Co., Bryn Mawr, Pa. Pioneer Music Press 975 S. W. Temple St. Salt Lake City, Utah The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints but a few of the many made by a group of mature literature students (members of the Church) after studying Robert Browning: Of all the poets that I've ever studied, I find Browning the most invigorating because of his optimistic views on religion and God. The more I study Browning and read his works, the better I like him. His poems are challenging, thought provoking, and stimulating. I was caught up in his vigor and robustness, his love for life. I was impressed by his strong faith and his willingness to so vigorously support his religious views. It was refreshing to find a really good poet who showed such a strong faith in God. His optimism in hope for life after death especially appeals to me, as does his Philosophy that you should aim your goals very high, even if you don't quite reach them. I enjoyed Browning tremendously. I loved his vigorous, positive belief in a personal, loving God. In our age of doubt and pessimism it is refreshing to study a poet who could verbalize his personal optimism. Browning's defiance of the trend of the 19th Century to deny God and credit existence to naturalistic forces is impressive. Without turning to sentimentality, he expresses his positive attitudes and directly meets pertinent issues in his society. Browning ingly with power and unwavering conViction of things not old or modern, but eternal. For him there was no dichotomy between doing good and being good. His deep faith in God and eternal life is the true and living God a hope, a source of life, a Strength, and an awesome divine potential for man. Man's strength comes from an inner greatness wrought by the living current of divine life within each man. Such a powerfu] message rings with glory and eloquence in all that Browning wrote. UNIVERSALITY OF ROBERT BROWNING Many of his ideas about God, the power of love, life here and hereafter, and the need for genuine sincerity and simplicity in with Latter-day Saint doctrines and principles. Equally significant is Browning's scorn of hypocrisy, self-righteousness, Meaningless ritualism, bigotry, materialism, contented Mediocrity, and rationalization. All the world recognizes the greatness of Robert Browning's Poetry, and Browning clubs in many lands are active in studying the complexities and _ brilliance Lesson Department of his writings. Almost any way that one approaches Browning, he is a great poet. He is a master of poetic craftsmanship; he is a subtle and probing explorer of personality and character; he is a champion of ideals, a stimulator of thought, and a prober into human weaknesses. He appeals to thoughtful readers throughout the world, and he has a special appeal to readers within the Church, as the responses of the Students quoted suggest. Because of his greatness as a poet and because of the special Substance of his poetry and philosophy, more selections by Browning were printed in Out of the Best Books than any other writer. Selections, including Mrs. Browning's, are as follows (volumes 1 to 4 only since nothing by Browning appears in volume 5): Introduction to Browning (vol. 1, pp. 71- 73) A Grammarian's Funeral" 73-79) "An Epistle... Of Karshish" (vol. 1, pp. 80-90) "Johannes Agricola in Meditation" (vol. I, pp. 234-37) "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" (vol. 1, pp. 234-37) "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" (vol. 1, pp. 238-42) "Prospice" (vol. 1, pp. 459-60) "Rabbi Ben Ezra" (vol. 1, pp. 461-68) "O Lyric Love" (vol. 2, pp. 60-61) "My Last Duchess" (vol. 2, pp. 190-95) "Andrea del Sarto" (vol. 3, pp. 80-89) "Song From Pippa Passes" (vol. 4, pp. 72-73) Excerpt From "Fra Lippo Lippi" (vol. 4, p. 165) "Sonnets From the Portuguese" by Mrs. Browning (vol. 2, pp. 46-60) (vol. 1, pp. We especially recommend for review "A Grammarian's Funeral," "An Epistle.. - of Karshish," "Prospice," and "Rabbi Ben Ezra." These' and others 

875 November 1970

 of Browning's poems are wonderfully stimulating. EXCERPTS FROM 'RABBI BEN EZRA" 1 Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in his hand Who saith, "A whole I planned; Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" 5 Rejoice we are allied To that which doth provide And not partake, effect and not receive! A spark disturbs our clod; Nearer we hold of God Who gives, than of his tribes that take, I must believe. 13 Therefore I summon age To grant youth's heritage, Life's struggle having so far reached its term. Thence shall I pass, approved A man, for aye removed From the developed brute—a god, though in the germ. 32 So, take and use Thy work; Amend what flaws may lurk, What strain o' the stuff, what warpings past the aim! My times be in Thy hand! Perfect the cup as planned! Let age approve of youth, and death complete the same! (Out of the Best Books, 1:461; - 463; 466.) Discussion Question Which of the ideas in Browning's writings especially appeal to you? COMMENTS FROM ROMANTICISM THROUGH MODERN EYES BY BRUCE B. CLARK A paragraph on Browning, excerpted from a small book entitled Romanticism Through Modern Eyes is given as further enrichment material: 876 Browning is probably the greatest poet of English romanticism excepting possibly William Wordsworth [whose poems will be reviewed in next month's cultural refinement lesson].... His brilliant dramatic monologues, dramatic soliloquies, and_ psychological — soulstudies probe meaningfully into human personality and character;... Browning firmly believes that God is in Heaven controlling the universe and that, while much is wrong with the world, the potentiality of man in this life is great, and the confidence with which he can look forward to life beyond death is equally strong. Occasionally Browning speaks directly of himself and his views, as in the "Epilogue to Asolando" when he describes himself as— One who never turned his back but marched breast forward, Never doubted clouds would break, Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are batfled to fight better, Sleep to wake. {Provo: BYU Press, 1970], (Bruce B. Clark, Romanticism Through Modern Eyes, pp. 55-58.) ""PROSPICE"' We include here "Prospice," which means "look forward." This is Browning's most direct expression of belief in immortality. Two ideas form the poem. One is simply a courageous attitude toward the experience of death—he has faced all life's experiences with vigor, and he will not now shrink from this final experience. The other idea, more philosophical, is the climax that ends the poem as with great confidence Browning anticipates the time when he will reach through death to reunite with his beloved wife ("O thou soul of my soul'), who had recently died. **Prospice"' by Robert Browning Fear death?—to feel the fog in my throat, The mist in my face, When the snows begin, and the blasts denote I am nearing the place, The power of the night, the press of the storm, The post of the foe; Where he stands, the Arch Fear in a visible form, Yet the strong man must go. For the journey is done and the summit attained, And the barriers fall,. Though a battle's to fight ere the guerdon be gained, The reward of it all. I was ever a fighter, so—one fight more, The best and the last! I would hate that death bandaged my eyes, and forebore, And bade me creep past. No! Let me taste the whole of it, fare like my peers, The heroes of old, Bear the brunt, in a minute pay glad life's arrears Of pain, darkness, and cold. For sudden the worst turns the best to the brave, The black minute's at end, And the elements' rage, the fiend-voices "that rave, Shall dwindle, shall blend, Shall change, shall become first a peace out of pain, Then a light, then thy breast, O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, And with God be the rest! (Out of the Best Books, 1:459.) In order to appreciate the intense emotion of this poem we need to be reminded of the courtship and marriage of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett, the most beautiful courtship and marriage in the history of English literature. When they met in 1845, Miss Barrett, six years older than Lesson Department Browning, was already a celebrated poetess. She was also a semi-invalid who during years of delicate health had hidden in the seclusion of her rooms. Browning, aged thirty-three was not yet acclaimed as a poet but already showed all the robustness and vigor that set him above ordinary men. He first learned of Miss Barrett through her poems, wrote her an admiring letter, met her, fell in love with her, as she with him, and after a whirlwind series of letters and visits, swept her "on" her feet for a secret wedding in 1846 that resulted in fifteen years of marriage ending with her death in 1861. All of this forms the background for "Prospice," written in 1861 shortly after Mrs. Browning's death. Note how beautifully Browning's faith in life beyond death and in the reuniting of families eternally is harmonious with our Latter-day Saint faith. Note too the courage with which he looks on death as only one step in eternal progression. Discussion Questions Does a knowledge of the love story of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning help us to appreciate his poetry? If so, why? CONCLUSION As anyone who reads Browning will discover, he is not an easy poet. His poems are immensely rewarding, but also difficult and challenging.

Let Browning speak to your minds and hearts as he has done to millions of other readers so that, you too can feel his greatness and inspiration. If you will discover him, your life will be enriched and _ uplifted. 

877 November 1970

 TOP BOOKS FOR $1.00 FOR JOINING BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB I I h Treat I "BOOKS FOR ' 'Wheat THE NEW I CHURCH YEAR" 1. Out of the Best Books (Relief Society Lessons) 5. Readings for the Young & the Young at Heart Vol.1 $2.75; Vols.2-5 $2.25 ea. (Set $10.50) By Laura M. Hawkes $2.95 2. Gospel Doctrine (Priesthood course) $4.95 6. Beginnings - Carol Pearson $2.95 3. Book of Mormon Digest-John Hawkes $3.95 7. Search - Carol Pearson $2.95 (helpful in Gospel Doctrine Class-Sunday Sch.) 8. Saga of the Book of Abraham - Todd $4.95 4. Make a Treat With Wheat-Hazel Richards$1.95 9. Great Leadersofthe BofM-Cheesman $9.95 I would like to order one book priced at $4.95 or less for $1.00 as my incentive to join Beehive Bookclub. I may order other books at regular prices. I agree to return the "Order Form' each month or purchase the "Feature Book." For every $20 of non-discounted books I will receive a FREE BOOK! (Add 25c per book for postage. In Utah add 4%% sales tax.).. BEEHIVE gooxcLusp Nemec. Cc ecewncewennmennesenanee=ssseaeunn 4663 Relabow Drive AGGVO@SS 2.28 nee nee cee neenoneneseneceseaneeunesensse nnn Salt Lake City,.. Utah 84107, City 2 eee eee eee eee Stet6t____ sa Zip 0 Happiness is @ ''Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service a i I [ Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department e@ @ Home of the world's finest.; Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.. Lowill seanene 8 MUSIC COMPANY 878 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _. 55 Zone5.~ 75 Zone3 __.--.-.60 Zone6 -____-.85 Zone4 ~~ ~~.665 Zone7..-.--.95 Zone8_.. - -1.05 Ee = DESERET PPews PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US " ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 A modern gas range gives you smokeless broiling instant-on, instant-off an automatically safe oven a self-cleaning oven le I —t >: i See the glamorous new models at your gas appliance dealer's. MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Natural Gas Sewice Lil 879 102 Mrs. Martha Jane Chappel Head