[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 855 | General Feature | Homemaking— Discussion 6— Improving | Your Mind]
HOMEMAKING A Lovelier You Discussion 6—Improving Your Mind Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, August 1971 OBJECTIVE To stress that a mother can be more interesting and helpful to her family by continually learning and reading. INTRODUCTION We live in an ever-changing world, and our challenge as mothers is to keep ourselves mentally alert and to put first things first. It requires good planning and the desire to rise above the pressure of our daily tasks so we can partake and participate in the exciting changes occurring around us. 

855 November 1970

 ARE WE MEETING THE CHALLENGE TO IMPROVE OUR MINDS? To continue to grow and progress is an eternal principle. Our experience in the cultural refinement lessons is an opportunity to read good literature with understanding and appreciation and to find it rewarding and uplifting. To understand and be able to interpret good art and listen to good music can do much to improve our minds and to enrich our lives. Mothers who appreciate the cultural arts instinctively instill a love for these arts in I their children. Since reading is one of the keys to learning, it is a good practice, at times, to evaluate the type of reading we do. WHAT ARE OUR READING HABITS? Do we enjoy reading good novels, history, and poetry? Are we interested in the scriptures and great masterpeices of literature? Do we visit our libraries? The Prophet Joseph Smith was directed to urge his followers to study and learn and become acquainted with all good books. (D&C 88:118; 90:15.) SEEKING GUIDANCE When we seek direction on matters of health, government, child guidance, community development, and money management, do we make the effort to go to the sources of authority for this information? One of the sections in the dedicatory prayer at the completion of the Kirtland Temple pertains to this: 856 grant, Holy Father, that all those who shall worship in this house, may be taught words of wisdom out of the best books, and that they may seek learning even by study, and also by faith, as Thou hast said.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1948] 2:421.) KEEPING INFORMED In what areas does a mother need to keep herself informed? Is it important to keep ourselves informed on the great progress being made in the field of medicine? Why? Should we make an effort to study and keep up with new legis- I lation? Why? What are some activities of the government that affect our homes? Do we attend public lectures on current subjects? Do we listen and study and attempt to absorb some of the marvelous achievements being made in the space age? Joseph Smith admonished the people to teach one another: Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad. (D&C 88:79.) KEEPING ALERT WITH OUR HUSBANDS Are we interested in our husband's work? Do we make the effort to learn about his work? Do we discuss with him his problems? Do we work together with our husbands on projects? Projects can be a rewarding learning experience. Do we make it a habit to read the scriptures together? Do we make an effort to memorize scripture? Do we spend our spare time with our husbands and families in recreation? Do we devote some of our time to personal education? CONCLUSION In our busy everyday lives the press of our individual responsibilities often causes us to seek physical rest as our only diversion. It may be well to bear in mind that the prophets are exhorting us to seek constant mental and spiritual activities. We are also told to use our talents, to make the most of them or they will be taken from us. But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their mouths, but they hide the talent which I have given Lesson Department unto them, because of the fear of man. Wo unto such, for mine anger is kindled against them. And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have.... Thou shalt not idle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy talent that it may not be known. (D&C 60:2-3, 13.) Thus, we should dedicate some moments of each day to enlarging our understanding, to developing our talents, to studying and learning. A beautiful example for her family and a joy to her husband is a woman who continues to "grow in grace and in the knowledge of truth." (D&C _ 50:40.)