[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 822 | General Feature | Editorial— Sharing With Others | Marianne C. Sharp]
Sharing With Others gw Sharing is of major concern to a Latter-day Saint. Joy in owning a treasure, whether it be one of spiritual import or material value, gives the most pleasure as it is shared with others. So it was in the days of the Savior when he would instruct the healed person to go and tell no one, but invariably he could not keep the good news to himself but ran and told others to rejoice with him. Sharing the joys which come from Relief Society membership and attendance gives the greatest satisfaction to a member. She longs to share her experiences with her friends, her mother, her grandmother. She is ''bursting'' to tell how her eyes have been opened to a truth of the gospel and how she can apply it in her own life, or to tell of a new way to accomplish a household task with less effort. Sharing the blessings of Relief Society calls upon a woman often to give service. She may travel quite a distance to pick up a sister with very small children, or an older sister who cannot walk so far, that they may share the joy of Relief Society. There are found in every organization those who share themselves in this way. Visiting teachers share themselves to a marked degree as they make their visits twelve times a year to share sisterhood with those they meet in Relief Society and likewise those who do not attend. Magazine representatives have also shared with all sisters in the organization as they have placed the Relief Society Magazines in the Latter-day Saint homes. Now this sharing is drawing to a close and such service will no longer be required, but what blessings have been earned by Magazine representatives over the years! This sharing exemplifies render

, SecretaryTreasurer 822 ing service while the opportunity presents itself which, when removed, ends the opportunity. Happy is any woman who, at the conclusion of an activity, views her sharing as having been satisfactorily concluded. Not to share oneself with others in the workings of Relief Society might be compared to the man who buried his talent and received no increase and was condemned. Under the new financing program for Relief Society the time spent in sharing one's talent toward making money has been returned to Relief Society members but that time should now flow into sharing oneself more than ever with the sister who is in need of charity, the pure love of Christ. This basic aspect of Relief Society will now be accentuated and another aspect along with it—that is the time which a sister can devote to perfecting her own living standards and her own home surroundings. All the sisters can freely share their talents with each other in the homemaking meeting and have the time to share their friendships and themselves as never before. As one contemplates the increased time in Relief Society at the disposal of the sisters for their own perfection and the sharing of themselves, the heart lifts and exciting vistas open up as Relief Society moves forward as the Prophet Joseph said, being directed 'through the order of the Priesthood which God has established in these last days."' As Relief Society obeys the priesthood directives, the work of Relief Society will be magnified among men and its members made to rejoice. —M. C. S. Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtie R. Olson Orlene J. Poulsen Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Walch Zeima R. West Helen G. Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Elizabeth B. Winters Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Amy Y. Valentine Helen W. Jeppson Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Marian R. Boyer Arlene S.

Kirto