[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 853 | General Feature | Homemaking— Discussion 5— | Proper Nutrition]
HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 5—Proper Nutrition Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE To impress upon each woman the fact that proper nutrition not only affects her health but also her appearance. INTRODUCTION People always have known they must eat to live—children to grow normally and adults to keep strong. But food can do more than satisfy physiological hunger and carry psychological and social values. Modern science shows that all of us, regardless of purse, can add years to our life and life to our years if we apply knowledge about nutrition to our selection and use of food. (Hazel K. Stiebeling, Food, The Yearbook of Agriculture, 1959, USDA; as cited in Nutrition for Family Counseling] Chicago: National Daily Council, 1962].) All women desire the beauty that comes from good health. To be in good health means to be well-nourished as well as to have good habits of exercise, rest, work, and play. Balanced meals are the basis for providing the materials with which to make and maintain good bone, muscle, blood, and other tissues. Your body is made from the food you eat. THE BASIC FOOD GROUPS Balanced meals are composed of foods selected from the socalled "basic four" food groups. What is meant by the "basic four" food groups? (Leader will write on the board and draw the answers from the class.) Dairy Foods Milk, cheese, ice cream, other milkmade foods.: 

853 November 1970

 Meat Group Meats, fish, poultry, eggs or cheese —with dry beans, peas, and nuts, as alternates. Fruits and Vegetables Includes dark green or yellow vegetables, citrus, and other fruit. Breads and Cereals Enriched or whole grain bread and cereals (added milk improves nutritional value). (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling [Chicago: National Dairy Council, 1962], p. 9.) The nutritional statements made in this booklet have been reviewed by the Council on Foods and Nutrition of the American Medical Association and found consistent with current authoritative medical opinion. (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling (Chicago: National Dairy Council, 1962], p. 1.) The four basic food groups should be interpreted as just what the name (basic) implies—a foundation upon which to build good meals. Each food group makes special contributions to our bodies. Foods from all four groups work together to supply energy and nutrients necessary for health and growth. Many nutrients contribute to the attractive appearance of our hair, skin, eyes, and other parts of the body. FOOD FOR ADULT WOMEN In general, men are likely to have better eating habits than women. Mothers are prone to neglect their own meals, partially because of their attention to the food needs of their families, or because they are figure-conscious and do not understand how to control weight properly. Discussion Questions 1. How do a mother's eating habits 854 affect her energy and attitude? 2. Do a mother's food habits affect her children's attitude toward eating? Older people who become less active need fewer calories than before; however, it is doubly important that their meals be complete and balanced and not lacking in essential proteins, vitamins, and minerals. Studies have shown that calcium, vitamin A, and vitamin C are often low in the diets of adults. This means that attention should be given by them to eating the recommended amounts of milk, fruits, and vegetables. OVERWEIGHT Excessive weight is physiologically undesirable, and in some cases can cause psychological problems and even changes in personality. (Give an example.) It also usually makes it more difficult for a woman to dress attractively and to express her best personality. Women should use I wisdom in the quantity of food they eat. A physician normally will not advise a "crash" diet for weight loss. People who go on crash diets usually regain the lost weight afterward because the diet has not produced a permanent change in habitual eating patterns. The fundamental cause of excessive weight is consuming more food than the body requires. A successful weight reduction diet includes foods which contain adequate amounts of essential nutrients but a limited number of calories. The intelligent way to control weight is to improve basic eating habits and become accustomed to eating less, not forgetting balanced nutritional needs. Foods are not of themselves fattening; overweight comes from eating in excess of the body's requirements. FOOD FADS Unfortunately, as the public's interest in nutrition has grown, food faddism and quackery have grown, too. There are two inherent dangers in food faddism: 1) health may suffer because the unknowing consumer, expecting the purchased preparation to protect or improve health, omits essential foods and delays seeking medical advice; 2) the pocketbook may take a serious "beating," using money which should go for food, clothing, and other family needs. (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling [Chicago: National Dairy Council 1962], p. 27.) CONCLUSION It is simple to obtain balanced meals if we follow a few principles of common sense. First, eat a variety of foods at each meal. Second, don't eat more than you can expend as energy. Third, use wholeLesson Department some foods. Make an effort to stay away from rich, sweet desserts. Mothers in our Church are blessed with a divinely inspired Word of Wisdom which serves as a guide and a constant help in protecting the health of their families. It contains a marvelous promise for those who obey its admonition, that all who follow it shall receive: health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. (D&C 89:18- 20.) Using wisdom and moderation in the food we eat can be challenging and rewarding. We not only receive the rewards of selfmastery and better health, but our appearance is enhanced, and we become a lovelier person in the eyes of our loved ones.