[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 869 | General Feature | Cultural Refinement— Lesson 4— "And to Every Man Is Given a Gift" | ]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—Principles With a Promise—Faith and Optimism Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage a woman to exercise faith and optimism as illustrated in the writings of Robert Browning. MUSIC COMMENTARY The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 5. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists-as to the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Eternal Life Dugan—Stickles 323-4009 Lo, Thou Art Near 1009 SSA 1 Am a Child of God (Sing with Me, p. B-76.) I Know That My Redeemer Lives (Hymns, no. 361.) INTRODUCTION TO LESSON One of the great poets of the world and one whose poetry embraces ideals and philosophy harmonious with our Church ideals and doctrines is Robert Browning (1812-1889). Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books, enough selections from Browning's poetry are included to make this an excellent and stimulating lesson, especially as it relates to women, by showing how their lives may be enriched and made more meaningful. RESPONSES TO WORKS OF BROWNING The following comments are 874 Ranghild L. Safsten— Mary D. Safsten Naomi W. Randall— Mildred T. Pettit Medley—Edwards Publisher The John Church Co., Subsidiary of Theodore Presser Co., Bryn Mawr, Pa. Pioneer Music Press 975 S. W. Temple St. Salt Lake City, Utah The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints but a few of the many made by a group of mature literature students (members of the Church) after studying Robert Browning: Of all the poets that I've ever studied, I find Browning the most invigorating because of his optimistic views on religion and God. The more I study Browning and read his works, the better I like him. His poems are challenging, thought provoking, and stimulating. I was caught up in his vigor and robustness, his love for life. I was impressed by his strong faith and his willingness to so vigorously support his religious views. It was refreshing to find a really good poet who showed such a strong faith in God. His optimism in hope for life after death especially appeals to me, as does his Philosophy that you should aim your goals very high, even if you don't quite reach them. I enjoyed Browning tremendously. I loved his vigorous, positive belief in a personal, loving God. In our age of doubt and pessimism it is refreshing to study a poet who could verbalize his personal optimism. Browning's defiance of the trend of the 19th Century to deny God and credit existence to naturalistic forces is impressive. Without turning to sentimentality, he expresses his positive attitudes and directly meets pertinent issues in his society. Browning ingly with power and unwavering conVic

Dale Fletcher was one who discovered 

869 November 1970

 his own gift at an early age, and consequently its cultivation became a natural part of his training. Just as many families customarily enjoy activities with their children, so did_ the Fletchers. They went painting and sketching into the meadows, barnyards, and countryside. The children, armed with pencils, crayons, and paper, were motivated by their parents to look closely and record their impressions. By so doing they saw more, and seeing more, they developed a_ profound gratitude for the simplest forms of God's creation. The painting "Temple Site" was a direct result of a desire by Dale Fletcher to paint something for the first Festival of Mormon Art at Brigham Young University in 1968. When Mr. Fletcher learned that the Provo Temple was to be built across the street from his home, it became a sacred spot to him. Relative to his experience he said:... I waited for a day and a half out there, looking for the temple through an empty picture frame without ever touching my large white canvas. Silly, sitting among sego lilies, waiting for angels to come and pose. Faithless and impatient, I gave up and tried to paint what I saw, and _ failed—lght descending from heaven cleaving the mountains, hallowing, redeeming grass, baptizing unto newness of leaf, working atonement and eternal marriage, achieving godhood, with all the winged beings hymning in the wild wheat. Though the artist in his own eyes may have felt that he failed, to the viewer his painting says that the very physical light is divine. From the sky God blessed all living entities with his sun- 870 shine. Each blade of grass, one by one, declares faith in the validity of individual things and conjointly displays wealth of value in the common field. To see, not just with the eyes but with the whole mind awake, is truly a great gift. INTRODUCTION President Brigham Young, in many of his speeches, pointed out that two of the greatest attributes of God are his power to love and his power to create. Especially did he draw attention to the endless variety in the works created by the hand of God: Endless variety is stamped upon the works of God's hands. There are no two productions of nature, whether animal, vegetable or mineral, that are exactly alike, and all are crowned with a degree of polish and perfection that cannot be obtained by ignorant man in his most exquisite mechanical productions. Man's machinery makes things alike; God's machinery gives to things which appear alike a pleasing difference. Fields and mountains, trees and flowers, and all that fly, swim or move upon the ground are lessons for study in the great school our heavenly Father has instituted for the benefit of his children. Let us explore this great field of information that is open before us in good books and in the great laboratory of nature. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 9:369-70 [hereafter referred to as JD].) God, in his exalted sphere, is the greatest Creator, creating things that are endlessly variable —flowers, trees, mountains, snowflakes, animals, people. But people, too, in their humbler sphere, can also be creative, should be creative—in teaching, leadership, thinking, homemaking, human relationships, cultural arts, and other phases of human endeavor. Earthly machines do make things that are exactly the same. Imaginative minds and talented hands create things that are never the same. Each work of art is unique, as is each solution to a problem, or each response to another personality. There is a need for machines to produce automobiles, refrigerators, shoes, boxes, wheels, and beads that are exactly alike. There is also a need for people to create things that are stimulatingly individual. As the late President John F. Kennedy once said at Amherst College, the growth and health of a people are dependent in part upon their creative activity: When power leads man towards arrogance, poetry reminds him of his limitations. When power narrows the area of man's concern, poetry cleanses. For art establishes the basic human truths which must serve as the touchstones of our judgment.... I see little of more importance to the future of our country and our civilization than full recognition of the place of the artist. If art is to nourish the roots of our culture, society must set the artist free to follow his vision wherever it takes him. (Out of the Best Books, vol. 4, p. 70.) As members of the Church we should create in good taste, creating works that are harmonious to the principles and ideals of the gospel, and we certainly should do all that we can to encourage creativity. Perhaps it is true, as a wise man once said, that the two greatest sources of happiness for men and women, indeed the only true sources of lasting happiness, are creativity and service. If we can include both in our lives we will have a double fount of happiness. As a Church it is obvious that we have not yet fully reached maturity in the creative arts. PerLesson Department haps our greatest achievement has been in the performing rts, especially music. The Tabernacle Choir is surely one of the great musical organizations of the world, and we have hundreds of other excellent choirs and choral groups throughout the Church. In musical composition, painting, literature, and the other arts we have achieved on a more limited basis. Yet the materials for great art are imbedded in the history of our people and in the philosophy of the gospel. In the future great things that are hardly even dreamed of now will undoubtedly be achieved in the arts by members of the Church. Nevertheless, in a limited way, we have already made some significant accomplishments for only one hundred and fifty years of history. To name all of the gifted creative writers, musicians, and painters that are at work within the Church would make a lesson too long to print here. Perhaps the most useful thing we can do is draw attention to the selections by members of the Church that have been included in the volumes of Out of the Best Books. These are as follows: Eileen Gibbons Kump, Milk," vol. 2, pp. 297-302 Albert R. Lyman, from Voice of the Intangible, vol. 2, pp. 340-46 Brian K. Kelly, "A Run of Gray," vol. 3, pp. 90-99 Edward L. Hart, ""To Utah," vol. 3, pp. 151-55 Clinton F. Larson, from The Mantle of the Prophet, vol. 3, pp. 156-60 Harrison R. Merrill, excerpt from poem, vol. 3, p. 242 Bernice Burton Holmes, "Rain Song," vol. 4, p. 9 "Bread and Carol Lynn Pearson, six poems, vol. 4, pp. 17 and 82-83 

871 November 1970

 S. Dilworth Young, "The March of Zion's Camp," vol. 4, pp. 213-19 Eliza R. Snow, several poems, vol. 4, pp. 257-68 Bruce B. Clark, "The Faces of Anger," vol. 5, pp. 60-61 "Bread and Milk" is a sensitive story about the beauty and wonder of approaching motherhood. The excerpt from the novel Voice of the Intangible dramatizes some meaningful insights into parent-child relationships and also suggests the need for listening to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit. "A Run of Gray" is a story by a gifted young author who reveals the awakening and maturing values of a boy growing up on a farm. "To Utah" is an excellent, richly artistic poem about the colonization of Utah and the kind of people who did the colonizing. The excerpt from The Mantle of the Prophet powerfully dramatizes the courage rooted in deep faith that Brigham Young had in following the vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith. "Rain Song" is a delicate description of a storm with meaningful psychological overtones. The six little poems by Carol Lynn Pearson are the remarkable work of one of the gifted young poets in the Church today. "The March of Zion's Camp," by Elder S. Dilworth Young of the First Council of Seventy, is a dramatic portrayal in poetry of the challenges met by faith that characterized those early young pioneers in that most remarkable of American army marches. Eliza R. Snow's poetry, illustrating her versatility as the most accomplished of our early women poets in the Church, ranges from poems of 872 faith and serenity, through poems exposing the evils of hypocrisy and gossiping, to a poem suggesting the unique role of being a woman. Any or all of these selections and their discussions printed in Out of the Best Books may be reviewed with value as the heart of this month's lesson. In addition we draw attention to two paintings in volume 3 by gifted Latter-day Saint painters —"To Them of the Last Wagon" by Lynn Fausett (pp. 144-46) and "Life from Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt (pp. 240-42). We especially invite a reexamination of "Life from Death," a beautifully symbolic painting showing the eternal relationship between life and death. The more one studies this extraordinary painting, the more one realizes the depth of both feeling and meaning encompassed in it. We also suggest a rereading of "Ordeal by Handcart" by Wallace Stegner (vol. 4, pp. 60-65). Although Wallace Stegner is not a member of our Church, this is a powerful and dramatic portrayal of a courageous episode in the history of the Church. Beyond the materials in Out of the Best Books, Relief Society sisters may with profit read some of the many stories and poems that have been published through the years in the Relief Society Magazine, which has from its beginning printed creative work by members of the Church. Some of the stories and poems published in the Magazine are of a quality deserving a permanent audience. In fact, an excellent project for someone would be to extract from the many issues of the Magazine the best of the stories and poems and compile these into a volume or two. For example, we reprint here the first-prize winner in the 1961 Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest, "The Other Mother" by Miranda Snow Walton, first published in the January 1962 issue, p. 14. As we read this poem and feel the anguish of the unnamed mother of Judas Iscariot, we share the universality of her mixture of love and grief. The poem is subdued yet powerful, speaking clearly to all who have read the tragedy of Judas' betrayal, and especially to all mothers who will intuitively understand the depth of mother love portrayed here. No book of Holy Writ records her name; She lived and died unknown, although her son Became a sign for infamy and shame— Judas Iscariot, the evil one. She must have dreamed of him, as mothers do, The months she cherished him before his birth, And watched with pride and gladness as he grew To manhood's Stature, great upon the earth. When she beheld him on that blessed day Follow the Holy Man of Galilee, How could she see the cross along his way, A premonition of the pain to be? But when his sin of avarice was paid Its wage of death, what anguish did she know! Surely her soul walked with him, hurt, afraid, Along the tortured trail they both must go. Fain would she have suffered in his Stead, Taken his retribution as her own, But in a potter's field her son lay dead By his own hand. She drained her cup alone. She reaches down the corridor of years, Lesson Department She mourns with grieving mothers of all lands; Wherever hearts are broken, bathed with tears For children's Sins, her tragic shadow stands. VALUES IN CREATIVITY All who have created artistically know that the joys and values derived therefrom are rewarding. There are, however, frustrations in creativity, even failure sometimes, but there is also a wonder, a joy of accomplishment In the process of creating something from within oneself that can be achieved in few other ways. This is true even though the object created may not be of any great significance to the world. It is of significance to the one who has created it, and that gives it incalculable value. The creative process sharpens the sensitivities, refines one's responses, and enriches human understanding. When one gives artistic form to miscellany, whether in colors, sounds, visual patterns, or words, the process not only creates beauty in the object but also enriches the one who creates. Class Discussion Name values you may have experienced in creative activity. Within every human being there are latent gifts of creativity which only need awakening to be enjoyed and make life more beautiful than it could have been otherwise. Every woman has at least one talent that she can develop, enjoy, and share for the enjoyment of others. SEEBS 

873 November 1970