EDITORIAL A Valentine for the Visiting Teachers m In this season of remembrance, when expressions of love and solicitude are so freely given and so gratefully received, it is well that we consider with thoughtfulness and gratitude our blessings as women and as Relief Society sisters. From continent to continent, the world around, there are women who go as companions in solicitude, from door to door, giving their offerings of encouragement and love, "'strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience... With joyfulness; giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light" (Col 1:11-12.) The busy young mother in her home, the woman in her middle years, who may be lonely at times, the elderly sisters who are not able to leave their homes—women blessed with material comforts, and those who are in stringent circumstances, all are given the precious balm of remembrance and loving concern. So it is for every woman of the sisterhood—she does not need to bear her burdens nor solve her problems alone. The presence of the visiting teachers reminds her that she is part of a world-wide organization, that thousands stand with her and support and strengthen her. Around her, and with her, there is the strength of many kind _ voices and many fervent prayers. In her life and in her home there is the blessed pattern and direction of those who are messengers of the gospel, for the visiting teachers of Relief Society are emissaries of the only Priesthood-directed organization of women established by divine inspiration by a Prophet of God. The visiting teachers carry with them the heritage of the women of Nauvoo who walked down to the river's edge to welcome and to assist the strangers who had come to a new land. The sisters who come to our doors have inherited that feeling of helpfulness and dear concern which motivated those who ministered so kindly to their sisters during the long journey to the West; they are spiritual relatives of the pioneer women who traveled horseback or in wagons or buggies or in bob sleighs to carry their message of mercy. The sisters who walked the miles of country roads, through hills and in lonely places, have bequeathed to our present-day visiting teachers their tender hearts and their ministering hands. "And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness... To the which also ye are called in one body..." (Col. 3: 14-15). The visiting teachers are obeying the command to visit the fold and the flock and to remind all the sisters that they are beloved women in an organization so large and so blessed that all may be encompassed in a circle of everlasting spiritual strength and growth as they seek together the fulfillment of their heritage and their blessings. There may be only a few words said when the visiting teachers come to our homes, the time of communication may be brief, but the days that follow will be gladdened by the message of faith and protected by the concern and the love of the world-wide sisterhood, "that their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love' (Col. 2:2). In this season when greetings of love and good will are exchanged, and messages of affection are given and received, let all of us who have been privileged to partake of the spirit of the visiting teachers the whole year through, give to them our sincere words of gratitude. From full hearts, let us give a valentine to the visiting teachers. —V. P. C.