Rhubarb Reminds Me Genevieve Van Wagenen Whenever I see a rhubarb plant with its large, thick-veined leaves, I always recall the thrift and frugality practiced and taught by the pioneers. I could recall a happy childhood and the fun we youngsters had, and the things we made from the rhubarb leaves; but I don't— pioneer frugality looms more important—more memorable. My parents always had several clumps of rhubarb growing in our yard. My sisters and I loved the tart goodness. In the spring, we could hardly wait for it to mature. We would pull ourselves a stick of rhubarb, wash it, sprinkle it with salt, and chew away. (It makes my mouth pucker now, just to think of it.) As children, we also enjoyed creating "make-believe" hats from the large rippled leaves. The shapely rhubarb leaves were very adaptable for hats. We trimmed the hats with sprigs of lilacs, bridal wreath, tulips, and pansies, fresh from the garden. We fastened the flowers to the leaves with toothpicks. We were real creative with our jaunty spring bonnets. Each one tried to outdo the others. Our imaginations ran wild. Maybe we created a bouncy "Gay Ninety" bonnet, a perky sailor, or, perhaps, a peaked clown hat. We admired and sometimes 112 RHUBARB REMINDS ME laughed at our creations. When finished, we placed the hats atop our curls, at just the right angle. There was quite an art to balancing them. Then we were ready for the fashion parade. Into the house we marched. Mother beamed her approval. On one such occasion, mother said, '"You don't know how lucky you girls are. If you had been my friend Ella, you couldn't have had a rhubarb hat." "Why not?" we queried. Mother looked thoughtful for a moment. We gathered round. When mother looked and sounded that way, she usually let a treasure fall, and we all wanted to be near to catch it. 'When I was about ten or twelve years of age," mother began, "TI had a friend named Ella Williams. Ella's mother was a widow. Her husband had died and left her with the responsibility of. Pro-- viding for five small children. It was a real struggle for Mrs. Williams, for she also had to support and care for her aged father, who was blind. They were poor, very poor," mother said, shaking her head sympathetically. "Women didn't work outside the home much in those days. Work wasn't available, as it is today. But the family was willing to work. They accepted any kind of work or job that was offered them. She took in washings and ironing. She scrubbed the clothes by hand, on a washboard. She always looked tired. "One day," mother continued, ''my father pulled a large armful of rhubarb and told me to take it and give it to Mrs. Williams. My father was always mindful of the needy," she spoke impressively. "He always shared with the poor. You see, when my father was only thirteen years old, he walked across the plains—most of the way barefooted. The pioneers endured many hardships and difficulties. He knew what it meant to be hungry and cold. "Anyway," she said, picking up the story, "I took the rhubarb to Ella's mother. She was so grateful to have it. I stayed to play awhile with Ella. I was real surprised when Mrs. Williams began preparing the rhubarb. She didn't cut off the leaf and lay it to one side to be discarded, as my mother always did. Each large vein in the leaf was carefully cut out and saved. She didn't waste a bit that was edible." "You mean they ate the veins, too?" we grimaced in surprise. "That's exactly what they did. Wasn't she clever and —_—. "T think it was silly," said six-year-old Bess. "T do, too," said Afton. "You think it was silly?" the tone of mother's voice indicated disappointment at their lack of understanding. '"That's because you have never been hungry. Mrs. Williams was a brave little soldier. She fought against the hardships of life. Thrift and frugality were her weapons. Without compromise or complaining, she struggled on. Her pioneer training paid off—you see—she won! She reared a wonderful family, a family of whom the whole town was proud." This true story made a great impression on me that day. One that I have never forgotten. And as the years rolled by, maturity has taught my sisters and me to call pioneer thrift and frugality by their noble names—courage and fortitude. 9