FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Danish Mission, Copenhagen and Jylland Districts Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference Ingrid A. Sorenson, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, stands in the front row, seventh from the left: Lillian Krammer, Copenhagen District chorister, is seventh from the left in the second row; DeAnna Yates is pianist; and Inger Larsen, second from the left in the front row, is president of the Copenhagen District Relief Society. Sister Sorenson reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Copenhagen and Jylland Districts are always eager to furnish music for the quarterly conferences. These sisters travel long distances, but are willing to give of their time and talents." Inger Fisher Rasmussen is president of the Danish Mission Relief Society, with Edith Christensen as first counselor and Tova -Birhskov as secretarytreasurer. St. Joseph Stake (Arizona), Thatcher Second Ward Relief Society Mothers and Daughters Day June 1, 1965 Ileen Hoopes, President, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports: "We feel that the Mothers and Daughters Day is a splendid way to introduce Relief Society to our teenage daughters. The girls enjoyed the lessons and the instructions in handicraft, especially learning to quilt. A potluck luncheon was served at noon." Manuela T. Mickelson is president of the Thatcher Second Ward Relief Society; Erdine Layton, First Counselor; Jeanene Flake, Second Counselor: Virginia Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Olive P. Hoopes, work meeting leader. Hayward Stake (California) Leadership Meeting September 24, 1965 Front row, left to right: Rexine Glenn, organist; Erma Neilsen, Work Counselor; Vera Crockett, President; Rose Winkle, Education Counselor; Edna Jelison, Secretary-Treasurer; Eileen Turek, literature class leader. Back row: Gwenn Webb, visiting teacher message leader; Georgene Moffitt, social science class leader; Catherine Russell, chorister; Anna Hoem, who made the Relief Society emblem featured in the center of the picture; Rama Lee, work meeting leader; Esther Kenison, theology class leader. Sister Crocket reports: "Our opening leadership meeting was a most spiritual occasion. The theme of the year's program—charity—was beautifully brought into focus by a large Relief Society emblem in blue and gold glass, surrounded by twelve miniature lights. Each board member, in turn, lighted a light, after giving a fitting quotation on our theme, and on her special assignment. Elder Delbert Wright, President of the Oakland Temple, was the guest speaker." All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, , 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of