VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 72 — '"'He that Seeketh Me Early Shall Find Me, and Shall Not Be Forsaken" (D&C 88:83) For First Meeting, In the Southern Hemisphere, for Objective: To stress the importance of seeking and finding the Both King David and his son Solomon realized the wisdom of seeking and finding the Lord early in their lives. David, the psalmist, sang, "O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee" (Psalms 63:1). Solomon records, "T [the Lord] love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me" (Proverbs 8:17). David, who became one of the greatest of all Israel's kings, sought the Lord while he was very young and thus became a chosen vessel. When the great prophet Samuel, who also had sought and found the Lord early, was searching for a future king to take Saul's place, he came to Lord as early as possible in our lives. Bethlehem. By commandment of the Lord he sought one of Jesse's seven sons. Jesse, the proud father, brought his sons before Samuel and thought surely the Lord would choose his eldest. "But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature for the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart" (I Samuel 16:7). The Lord had chosen David because he had sought him early while still only a boy and his heart was fully in tune with the Lord's spirit. When Solomon, as a_ very -young man, was selected to succeed his father David as the king of Israel, he, too, had sought and found the Lord early in his life: "Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of David his father' (I King 3:3). In response to the Lord's call, Solomon said, "And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my Father: and I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in" (I Kings 3:7). Solomon then petitioned the Lord that he be given an understanding heart so that he would be wise in judging and guiding his people. It is a significant fact that so many of the great leaders in the Lord's work have sought and found the Savior early in their lives. Jesus himself was about his Father's business when he was only twelve. The Prophet Joseph Smith opened the door for the restoration of the gospel and ushered in the dispensation of the fulness of times when he was only fourteen. Why is it that the Lord admonishes us to seek him early? Surely one reason is that in our youth our minds and spirits are more malleable and_ teachable. At an early age our minds are not cluttered with misinformation which builds doubt and scepticism. Obviously another reason is that the earlier we seek and find the Lord the longer we will have to grow and develop under the influence of his spirit. Certainly the presence of the Lord's spirit is a great blessing and we should seek to enjoy it as early as possible. We must not procrastinate. For as the prophet Amulek declared, 'I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance" (Alma 34:33). Also, through his modern Prophet, the Lord has declared "behold, I come quickly and they who have sought me early shall find rest to their souls" (D&C 54:10). The important conclusion we must draw from this instruction from our Father in heaven is that we must seek the Lord earnestly and diligently if we expect to find him. Under his divine plan of personal free agency, he will not force himself upon us. He will come to us only if we sincerely and wholeheartedly seek him.