THIS DAY WILL BRING SOME LOVELY THING Stella Hatch Life closes in and we take for granted the wonderful blessings that are ours. So try each morning when you awaken, to say, "This day will bring some lovely thing." Just as surely as you do, life will bring it! You will see it and 'recognize its beauty. As you go on day after day, you'll find that you will be looking carefully for these bits of joy. For instance, as I came out of the chapel on Sunday, a tiny child grasped my knees. It was my grandson. I felt a thrill go through me because I love him so and he is so sweet. I gave a dear sister a ride. She had on a print dress that looked refreshing, and her conversation was about her gratefulness to the Lord that she was eighty-four years old, and in good health. It made me want to live long. I saw a baby begin to walk; grandpa giving candy to eager, little boys; saw cherries hanging in clusters and felt the warm sun on my face as I picked them. Most important, you must look in places where loveliness has a struggle to be: such as a home where disorder and quarreling abide. Where you go in to help and feel a calm peace invade the room and a friend inspired to do better. You help a young mother who can't get out often by tending her children, doing up the dishes and, perhaps, making a cake. This brings a warmth around the heart. Really, it isn't anything except giving of oneself, and this is always a lovely thing. BEAUTIFUL Oakland and Los Angeles HANDY March 3, 1966 DURABLE Time for those who wish to go to temples A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inStruction of each month's Relief Society MagaCardston and Idaho Falls zine is in a handsomely bound cover. The June 17, 1966 Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. * a Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Hawaiian Lei Day Tour 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 i 7 Phone 486-1892 Spans Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Northwest Tour Yearly Index included June 25 - July 2 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed Hill Cumorah Tours below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah; — } and 2 55 Zone6 90 J hi | I pesone 3 60 Zone 7 1.05 Zoree 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 ames rave ours Zone 5 0 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 PESERET FPEws PRESS Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 159 OG rrcuste Mrs. ~ ae E. Walker Mrs. Jane Clark Angus Banks Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Mirinda Snow Frandsen Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Jensen Terou Hamilton, Montana Mrs. Amanda Hendricks Price Gridley, California Mrs. Mary Smith Fillmore, Utah Mrs. Carrie M. Freeman Maramec, Oklahoma Mrs. Caroline Ringle Steed Washington Terrace, Utah Mrs. Ammar Elizabeth Pickett Bott Burley, Idaho IDLENESS In beautiful White Pass in Mount Rainier National Park, we passed Kautz Flood area where, in a huge valley, the trees have all died because the roots were smothered and could not get air. With all the necessary water and plant food, they died even as gardens sometimes do, too. The flood-packed debris around them suffocated them. There was no one to work the soil. They stand as mute evidence of an important law of life: without the work of cultivation for plants, trees, and man, the rot of idleness sets in to destroy. Caroline Eyring Miner 160 Two New and Inspiring Books THE PARABLES OF THE KINGDOM by Melvin R. Brooks Those "stories with meaning" were never so beautifully explained or outlined as they are in this inspiring book. Each parable is taken and analyzed in depth by an author who is a recognized authority. $2.50. Ee CURTAIN TIME USA Ambassadors of Inspiration Niveuans by Jay M. Todd Twenty-five young Brigham Young University i: students assigned by the State Department to ' tour Southeast Asia and the Middle East proved to be among America's finest ambassadors of good will. This is their story. Warm, intimate, pI tele em NARI IMt ad a and exciting. $3.95 = SSS Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA e Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check;; money order, | have an account, please = charge Amount § ¢ Name 00.0 ccc cee ee cece cee eee e > Address 022.2. Eee e 4 aState Zip e Residents of Utah, please add 3'2% sales tax. Z Residents of California, when ordering through e California store, please add 4% sales tax. " RS. Feb. 66 e