Purple Velvet By Estella P. Rich
Miss Ames, spinster, took a last look at her monthly pay check before she clasped shut her flat leather hand bag of a style long since obsolete; drew on her mended kid gloves; picked up a "National" mail order catalogue; nodded a good-night to the principal; and left the building where for twelve years she had been Allie Ames, primary teacher.
Purple shadows lay across the mountains, and a faint, haunting perfume drifted through the stillness. "Spring!" she said softly, "spring, and my dream coming true."
Her heart was singing as she went through the soft April twilight, though no one would have suspected it from the tight, thin-lipped expression of her mouth that the years had made as habitual as the dingy brown dresses she wore.
Twelve years is a long time for a dream to remain unchanged. If it does not come into its fulfillment, it fades into a half-forgotten memory, or is itself outgrown by its creator. None of these things had happened to Allie Ames' dream. It still lived just as she had put it away when her father's mantle of provider had dropped on her frail shoulders. She had been all ready then to buy the purple velvet dress. In it, like a butterfly newly awakened from its chrysalis, she would close the door to her drab girlhood. The subtle softness of the velvet, its shimmering richness, would add the thing that her personality lacked. The slenderness and whiteness of her hands would be accentuated against its background. In it she could laugh out gaily without feeling self-conscious. In it she could hold her head up proudly. She had it all planned?the very cut of it. Her first pay check would be due on October 16th, and on October 10th her father died.
She took up the burden that he had laid down, and the purple velvet dress was relegated to a part of her mind that has nothing to do with the paying off of a four thousand dollar mortgage and caring for an invalid mother. Eight years later death simplified her financial problems but left her bitterly lonely. Her mother, too, was gone. Twice since then she had seen her way open to the fulfillment of her dreams. Twice the gorgeous dress came floating out into her warm, welcoming consciousness; and twice fate had reached out a restraining hand, once in the form of a broken leg for herself and once in a fire that destroyed the roof of her kitchen. The velvet had gone back to its waiting place.
But now the home was free from debt, the principal had signed her up for another year, and out of this very month's pay check her dream-child was to come.
"I'm going into Mrs. Darney's right now," she told herself, "and find out just what she can make it up for."
As she turned in at the dressmaker's gate, her eye fell on a purple pansy rising out of brown frost-bitten leaves. She smiled whimsically and knocked at the door.
"Land sakes, Miss Ames, I wuz just a wishin' someone would come in. I'm a makin' cookies for the stage driver's lunch, so I can't leave. Here, have some.
"You know," Mrs. Darney continued, "this town is goin' to the dogs?plumb to the dogs. What do you think has happened now?" She stooped to slide a pan of cookies in the oven and Miss Ames informed her she hadn't the faintest idea. Reserving her own thought, however, that if it were any scandal, neither she nor the rest of the village would be long in hearing of it.
"Darn stinkers," went on the much-incensed woman?Mrs. Darney slurred her "r's" as she did her neighbors?"the hull bunch is a goin' straight to the devil. That Jenkens crowd of boys went to Evanston last night to some big carnival dance, and here it's Friday night and not one of 'em back yet.
"Bert Henley, the mail driver, says as how he saw 'em hangin' round the pool hall when he came through Evanston today.
"Such goin's on! And that Evertt Brooks as bad as any of 'em. If Ann Athers hadn't already quit him, this sure ought to finish him."
Miss Ames straightened up in her chair. "Evertt isn't with them?you don't mean that?"
"Don't I? That's just what I mean."
"Poor kid."
"Poor kid, nothin'. He ought to be ashamed of himself?him that's had more chance than any of 'em.
"Why, I tell you, Miss Ames, there's not a decent fellow in this town, and the gals is just about as bad."
Miss Ames rose hurriedly. She couldn't somehow, bring herself to mention her dress in this hostile influence. Plenty of time to make arrangements for it after the material came.
"Ann Athers?you can't say anything about her," Miss Ames flung out a bit defiantly as she opened the door.
"Well, all I can say is I hope she's different."
"Poor Mrs. Darney," thought Miss Ames a little later as she washed up her dishes from her solitary supper. "She's never so happy as when she's imagining the worst about people."
Though she discredited much of the dressmaker's gossip, it still left her vaguely uneasy. "I wish I hadn't gone into Mrs. Darney's tonight, but how silly to let her idle talk depress me. Nothing is going to spoil this golden day."
She watered her red geranium in the south window, hectographed the second reading lesson for Monday, corrected the third grade spelling papers, and put a yeast cake to soak; then, getting out the mail order catalogue, she spent a blissful hour reading descriptions of velvets. By eleven o'clock she had decided upon the material for which she would send: "No. 2560J?Width 48 inches. After months of searching the market, we have at last secured what we believe is the finest bargain in silk panne velvet ever offered. The illustration cannot show and words cannot describe the beauty of this rich material. It is the ideal fabric for discriminating buyers. Comes in black, navy blue, and a deep purple. Yd. $7.00."
She was so deeply absorbed that the chugging of a car through the muddy street did not rouse her from her dream. She wrote her order, made out a twenty-eight dollar check, addressed and sealed the envelope, and stood it upon the old-fashioned writing desk.
The clock was striking twelve when she went up the narrow stairs to her bed room. She stood for a moment by the window, drinking in the soft shimmering beauty of the night. "I can see myself coming up the path in that dress with moonlight streaming down?I'm walking very straight?and the narcissuses turn on their stalks to watch me as I go?oh, I know what I'm going to do: I'm going out in that moonlight now and walk up and down the path as I'll walk when I have my dress."
She was at the gate before she saw the shadow, indistinct and crouching. She ventured a little nearer. No it was not the poplar shadow, but a man, hat over eyes, his back against her white picket fence.
"What are you doing here?" she asked through lips that sought to be steady.
Only a thick mumble. She went a little closer then drew back in dismay. Out of the shadow a face gathered distinctness?a boy's face. It was Evertt Brooks.
"Oh, shut up," came the thick retort, "I don't want any old maid preaching to me."
Tipsily he moved off down the road toward his own home.
Miss Ames' heart contracted with quick pain. Evertt who used to bring her stiff little bouquets of marigolds and ribbon grass; whose chubby little hands always sought teacher's in the recess games; Evertt, whose laughing eyes had awakened dreams?dreams of mothering such sons; Evertt, who had gone away to the Evansville High School largely through her influence with his mother; who had stood at the head of his class for three years and then been called home in his last year to relieve a rheumatism-crippled father, who didn't believe in his son's "galavantin' off fur education nohow."
She remembered when he came home for vacation, how hungrily she had listened to him tell of his high school days, of the gay innocent pranks there, of the new vision of life he was gaining; and she thanked God quietly that her weak influence had helped make it possible. Once while talking enthusiastically of his teachers, he had said: "But there's one who stands out above all the teachers I've ever had?"
Miss Ames' heart had given a great leap. What if he should say her name. With face burning she almost prayed he would, then as quickly hoped he wouldn't. He didn't.
"My athletic coach, Miles Bonner?he's the one that's got under my skin. Gee, Miss Ames, it's great to affect fellows like he does. Of course he has no idea how I feel about it; but I almost believe if he told me he thought I could jump over the moon, I'd try it."
And now in less than a year the deadly environment of the little town was getting him, smothering out his ideals, and he was helpless to save himself. When he first came home, she had actually hoped that he might run in evenings and read with her; but he didn't and now she smiled a trifle bitterly. "Who would spend his evenings reading with a dull old maid when youth, even though not of his standard, is calling?"
The young people weren't bad, just aimless and idle?and Evertt was meant for better things. "Oh, why isn't there someone big enough to save him?someone he would let help him!" she almost sobbed.
Suddenly she thought of his coach?yes, perhaps he could help. But how could she get into communication with him. Letter? No, she could never express herself in writing, especially to a stranger. Evansville was thirty miles distant over roads so muddy that the stage driver had abandoned his car for the slower but surer buggy locomotives. Even if she could prevail upon him to take a passenger she couldn't afford to go. It would cost twenty dollars for fare alone. No, it was out of the question. After making the last payment on the house, she had only enough laid aside to keep her till next pay day. It did not occur to her that she might borrow. She would have rejected the idea if it had occurred. She had carried the yoke of debt too long as it was.
But she did think of the letter on the old desk. At that thought her face flamed with anger. It was ridiculous to even think of it. Had she not waited twelve years already for that velvet dress? She visioned the few dresses she had had in those years?always dark, drab, colors chosen for service. "No, no, no," she told herself fiercely. "I'm not my brother's keeper."
She recounted her many sacrifices, her meagre joys. What if Evertt had been her favorite pupil? What if she dreamed great things for him? Could Fate?could anybody expect her to do such a perfectly ridiculous thing? A strange man?of course she couldn't make him understand! And if she could it was utterly foolish to think that a word from him at a distance would outweigh the daily and hourly environment of Evertt's home and town.
She went slowly back to the house, climbed for the second time, the narrow stairs to her bedroom and presently found herself mechanically putting her tooth-brush, two clean handkerchiefs, and a night dress into a worn suitcase. She carried the suitcase down to the kitchen, packed a few sandwiches in a shoe box, looked at her watch?it was four fifteen. She got out a black cotton veil and wrapped it about her hat to protect it from the splashing mud.
At five o'clock she called up Bert Henley, the stage driver, and asked him to call for her at six. She hunted up an old linen duster that had been her mother's; to cover her five-year-old coat. She was forcing herself to drink a glass of milk when the stage driver whistled.
At nightfall when a jaded and steaming team drew up before the Evans Hotel, Miss Ames got stiffly to the ground, paid Henley ten dollars, asked him to call for her in the morning, and went to sign her name to the register. She was conscious of flickering smiles as she made her way through a group of traveling men to the desk where she asked the clerk for a moderately priced room. From the dining room adjoining the lobby she caught a glimpse of waving pennants and the sound of laughing voices.
"Can you direct me to Miles Bonner's residence?" she asked the clerk when she had signed her name.
"Sure mam, but if it's Miles Bonner himself you want to see, he's in the dining room there now. The faculty of the high school is banqueting the basket ball boys before they leave tonight for their tour of eastern Wyoming."
A great fear swept over Miss Ames. Her task seemed so silly and trivial now. Coach Bonner no doubt could not even spare time to speak to her, and if he did he likely would think she was crazy. If she only could have met him in his own home she was sure it would have been easier. But she must not give up?she had risked too much.
Trembling she wrote on a sheet of paper: "Coach Bonner: Dear sir: Can you spare me ten minutes of your time? I have come thirty miles to see you and ask this favor only because I believe my reason justifies it."
She signed it and asked the clerk to deliver it, and then sat down in the dimmest corner of the lobby to wait.
"He'll see you at eleven," the clerk presently informed her.
Miss Ames ached in every muscle and nerve. If she closed her eyes, mud-dripping wheels turned round and round and the crack of the whip sounded and resounded till she could have screamed.
At eleven o'clock the coach came toward her. He was a big, broad-shouldered man. His keen gray eyes measured her from head to foot and she became painfully aware of a dab of mud on her skirt.
"You are Miss Ames?"
"Yes, sir," she blushed furiously, and plunged into her business. He kept an eye on his watch as she talked and she could feel he was impatient to be off. As a result her embarrassment increased?she floundered for words.
"Our train is due in twenty minutes," he broke in at last, "so you'll have to excuse me, Miss Ames. And I really think you've over-estimated the seriousness of the boy's condition as well as my influence on him, but I'll write him anyway."
"Oh, thank you, sir; and please don't ever let him know that I asked you to."
"I won't," and he was gone.
"Fool, fool," she told herself fiercely. "That's what he thinks you are and that's what you are, too." She felt as though she had been slapped mentally and physically. A fool old maid preaching around,?yes, Evertt had said it. She stumbled up to her bedroom and without even trying to crowd down one of the now dry sandwiches, she flung herself across the bed.
Back in her school room five years later Miss Ames directed the moving of books to the adjoining new building. It was the last day of school in the old building. On Monday workmen would begin tearing it down. After the children had gone, Miss Ames spent a happy hour in the new school room, drawing a calendar gay with blue birds and daffodils. As she placed the figures in their neat little squares, she stopped suddenly?April 15?it was five years today she had made her memorable journey to Evansville.
She had never known the outcome of that journey, for within the week her aunt in Denver had died, leaving Miss Ames a few thousand dollars with the stipulation that she remain with a seventeen-year-old daughter until the girl was safely married. Four years later when Miss Ames returned to resume her teaching in her home town, the Brooks family had moved to Moscow, Idaho. Well, she had done her best, foolish as it now seemed.
It was twilight when she went back to the old school room for some pictures she had left on the walls. As she reached up to get them, her eye fell on a spit ball clinging to one of the frames. She smiled to herself. She could almost hear its thud as it hit, and see a dozen pairs of mischievous eyes that had followed it to its destination. A smudged outline of a little overshoe on the smoky ceiling bore silent testimony to the joy of some small lad. It struck her suddenly that she was in the house of death. Little empty seats stared up at her; empty hat pegs pointed shadowy figures; ghostly little hands clung to hers; and weird childish voices called.
"I'm getting old to sit and dream like this. It's really dark. I should have been home hours ago."
But still she lingered. What dreams had she awakened in this room?dreams that had faded into nothingness! She leaned out of the open window. Through the velvety dusk she could make out the narcissuses cutting the ground with stiff little daggers of green. She and the children had planted them by the steps years ago. A little pine tree rose stiff and straight from its bed of new-turned earth. Overhead the star-studded sky stretched away to infinite spaces?the sky that covered her boys and girls.
Two figures, a boy's and a girl's turned in at the old school gate. Miss Ames drew back into the shadow. A board creaked loudly but the couple were wholly oblivious to any sound save their own voices. The boy was saying something about signing a contract for principalship in a high school. A workman's bench stood directly in front of the window. Here the couple sat down and a silence fell between them. A drowsy breeze caught up a length of chiffon from the girl's shoulders. Its trailing whiteness brushed softly against the boy's face. Miss Ames felt rather than heard him draw in a long quivering breath.
"Ann?" he stopped, choked. His hand closed over hers and came to rest. "Oh, it's too perfect to spoil with my stumbling words. Can't you see the night is saying it for me?tell me you understand."
"Yes, Evertt, I understand."
Another long silence. When the boy spoke again his voice was so low that Miss Ames could scarcely catch it.
"There's a man I could go down on my knees to, Ann. A man who made it possible for this to be."
"Made it possible?"
"Yes, when I lost my way he met me at the crossroads with a lantern?a letter I mean. Some day I'll tell you all about it. I wish Miles Bonner knew."
For several minutes after they had gone, Miss Ames stood perfectly still. Her hands in the moonlight lay slim and white against the brown dress. Suddenly she laughed out gaily, without a trace of self-consciousness. Her head came up proudly.
"Why?why?I feel as if I were dressed in purple velvet!"