The Emigrant?Johan Bojer By Lois V. Hales
"The last trace of old Norway faded away in the distance and the great liner with its strange freight of human destinies steamed on across the golden evening sea as the sun dipped in the West."
Months later, as the weary emigrants looked out over the wild, never-ending prairie, which later became the Dakotas, they thought of their beloved Norway with its wide fjords, its snow-streaked mountains, and shining lakes. Here there was nothing but an "ocean of earth, undulating in heavy-drawn waves, on and on into the blue distance, till the last wave spent itself somewhere beyond the sky-line." If they got lost here, no one would ever find them. But it was too late to turn back.
Some months earlier Erik Foss, fresh from America, had entered their little farming district with brilliant tales of this great land of opportunity. Here people did and thought as they pleased and money was not the crux of things. In the earth there were neither stones nor stumps. America was a land where the earth was so rich that you could "eat it instead of cream-porridge; where you sowed oats or barley and reaped sweet apples or oranges; where potatoes were yellow as egg yolk and tasted like raisins." It was a country where all their dreams awaited them as realities.
When Erik Foss returned to America he brought with him this little band of emigrants consisting of Morten Kvidal, with his dream of quick wealth and early return to Norway; Per Foll, a thinker; his well-bred wife Anne; Kal Skaret and family, driven by poverty to the border of dishonesty in Norway, but ideal emigrants in this country, where their efforts were rewarded if they were willing to work and trust in their own strength; Ola Vatne, who had run amuck and burned down the Colonel's house and then married his only daughter Else and brought her to America; Jo Berg, a schoolmaster, and Anton Noreng, brother of the sweetheart Morten had left behind. Upon these people Erik Foss, a splendid example of the men who built up America, banked his money and his future.
Work, work, work! Days and months of hardship. Here in America you must either swim or sink. Only thus was it a land of opportunity. Kal used to work early Sunday morning until the others began to stir. "No doubt the Lord could see him; but, then, He was not so particular as one's neighbors here on earth." Life was often very hard, for upon this plain, receding, "always receding, there was not a single obstacle, nothing one could shoulder aside, nothing of any kind. They could never climb up anywhere to get a wider view, or go down into the shade to give their eyes a chance of looking upward." Ola built a small mound of dirt near his home, when he sought refuge when the prairie threatened to overpower him with its level vastness.
When the little sod huts appeared, things seemed better. Then came the forest fire which tested them severely. But as the darkness closed in on the charred prairie each one knew in his heart that he would not even now return to the old country. The prairie had cast upon them its charm.
Then came first winter on the prairie. As the blizzards raged about their little huts, they re-read their letters from home and dreamed of the little, red, yellow, and white houses of Norway, against a landscape so much alive that it fairly danced with joy. Again they watched the herring-boats rowing home after the night's fishing.
Spring came at last with its thousand tasks. Thus year after year of long winters, planting and reaping followed. New emigrants came to live near them. Together they built a little church and brought in a parson to teach them the Word of God. Gradually they evolved into the typical, flourishing community of early pioneering days. Some of them fulfilled a long cherished dream and returned to the homeland, where they found no waiting crowd on the beach and the faces of friends sadly missing. Always they returned to the prairie land which they had conquered and which had conquered them.
Thus reads Johan Bojer's great pioneer novel "The Emigrants." Mr. Bojer has taken several types of emigrants and shown us the way of the prairie with each. Under its influence Ola Vatne takes to drink while Per Foll yields to "the evil intoxication with which the desolate land drenches his head." To Morten this endless expanse of untilled soil seems to be singing a song of the future?of big farms, of railways, of the towns which will spring up. All his life Morten was torn with love for his native country and the country across the sea?America. Mr. Bojer makes us feel keenly this tragedy of the emigrant.
In his powerful way he draws for us the saga of the emigrant. Their long pilgrimage, their fights with Indians, wild beasts, forest fires, frost, locusts?all the trials of the pioneers he pictures for us in such a way that when we close the book we feel almost as if we had lived the life of the pioneer.
"The Emigrants" stands high in all the requirements of good literature. The most notable characteristic to us, however, was its entire lack of sentimentality. It is so easy to become sentimental over our pioneers that it is distinctly refreshing to find a novel simply, humanly, vigorously written and without a sign of sentimentality. At the end, as Morten revisits Norway and contemplates love of country, he says: "If you came back to your native country, you wanted to leave again; if you went away, you longed to come back. Wherever you were, you could hear the call of the home-land, like the note of a herdsman's horn far away in the hills. You had one home out there, and one over here, and yet you were an alien in both places. Your true abiding-place was the vision of something very far off; and your soul was like the waves, always restless, forever in motion."