Flashes from the Eternal Semaphore
A book by Leo J. Muir, of Los Angeles, formerly superintendent of schools in Davis County, Utah, from the press of the Sanders Publishing Company, is entitled "Flashes from the Eternal Semaphore." The flashes are bright lights from seventy centuries of human wisdom, chosen as lamps for the guidance of the youth of our generation.
Semaphores are guides, like the great light-houses to the mariners and ships at sea, like the railroad lights and signals that are "the silent and infallible policemen of the road." The latest of the great highway semaphores are the lights provided for the pilots of the airplanes that fly across the continent?fifty miles apart, but appearing to the pilot as a narrow path of light stretching far over prairies and mountains.
The eternal semaphore is the experience of the race, the judgment of the ages, the voice of the past. Three things this little book aspires to do: throw light upon youth's pathway; impress young men and women with the rigorous certitude of truth and principle; and quicken the respect of youth for the past and its contributions.
In our opinion the book lives up to its aim. Here are some of the flashes that it throws before the pathway of youth:
1. That the pursuit of easy things makes men weak, teaching that if we avoid work, toil, responsibility, we shall weaken ourselves.
2. That the only dominion is self-dominion?that "self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control, lead life to sovereign power."
3. That joy dwells in the ordinary?that doing our best is our highest enjoyment.
4. That "of thy unspoken word thou art master, but thy spoken word is master of thee;"
5. That "whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap," and that "he who lies down with the dogs, arises with the fleas."
6. That eternal law, nature's way, is as old as God, and besides it there is nothing else; that the highest thing in human relationships is the thing we call law, truth, or principle.
Each of the "flashes" is shown to have many rays, which penetrate to the depths the darkest recesses of the human soul and illumine the pathway of man, showing him the road to excellence and how to walk in it.