Now that the bill pensioning the aged has passed the legislature, with her little rent money and her frugal habits, she will get on nicely. "But?" I interrupted, wishing to touch on the point that im-, pressed me most, "isn't it a travesty on human nature (my own included )?all these cars passing her home daily and hourly and not one of us considerate enough to realize how hungry she is for a little ride. When our own hunger is appeased, we think that everyone else's should be." Next day, as Louise and I stopped with a squeak of brakes before her adobe cottage?one of the few remaining pioneer dwellings with the proverbial lilac bush before the door?there peered through the red geraniums of the daintily curtained window a bright wizened face whose expression was a ray of joy. The visage bore the most radiant gleam of happiness I had ever beheld. As we drove down the highway. And swerved to the side to let whizzing cars by, she showed not the least sign of nervousness, as most elderly people do who are not used to automobile riding. The entire afternoon was a perfect joy to us, she was so rapturously thrilled with the ride itself and with every object we approached. (Who dares to say that youth is the only time for THOUGHTLESSNESS 343 thrills?) She showed us where the old fort used to stand, where they used to braid the Maypole and have picnics, where she herded sheep that the family might be clothed; for in those days they had literally to take the wool from the sheep' s backs to make clothing. Mothers had to weave the cloth as well as make the garments. "You would die laughing," she trilled, her brown eyes sparkling, "if you saw the first trousers, without a pattern, I made for my husband?baggy here and baggy there, and skimp where they should not be skimp. But, do you know, he was just as proud of those trousers and of me as if I had been the best tailor in New York." The humorous pride with which she told this was exquisite. After we had deposited the dear old soul at her gate and received her effusive thanks, I felt my eyes moisten and my throat tighten so that it was best to keep mute. Louise finally gasped, "I wouldn't have missed this afternoon for a thousand dollars. Isn't it strange that we should be so thoughtless when just a little time and a little consideration brings so much joy into the world."