THE LANGUAGE OF THE FUTURE.

	The distinguished Swiss savant, M. Al-
phonse de Candolle, in his recent "Histoire
des Sciences," has ventured some predictions
in regard to the English language, which
may interest our readers. A Swiss scholar
ought at least to be an impartial judge. M.
de Candolle believes that the English lan-
guage is to be the language of the future.
He grounds his expectations, first of all, on
the structure of the English tongue. "Its
forms," he says, "are adapted to modern
tendencies. If you have to hail a vessel,
cry stop to a train, demonstrate a machine,
make a physical experiment, speak in a few
words to people busy and practical," you
must use the English language.
	This is the tongue that we employ when
we are in a hurry, or when we wish to say
anything clearly and briefly. "In the con-
flict of two languages," he adds, "all things
being equal, it is the briefest and most sim-
ple which carries the day." He states that
he has repeatedly seen in Switzerland fami-
lies where the French and German were
equally understood, but that the French al-
ways drives out the German through its su-
perior flexibility and convenience. In like
manner, where English and French are em-
ployed in a Swiss family, and are equally
known, the English drives out the French.
It even passes from one generation to an-
other in a foreign country on account of its
superior practical convenience. In this way
he accounts for the fact that French and
German families in England or America so
quickly lose their native tongues, while En-
glish-speaking families in France or Germa-
ny transmit theirs from generation to gen-
eration. The English tongue, he says, dis-
penses with long phrases and many words;
it uses readily foreign words, but shortens
them; it has  no arbitrary distinction of
genders; the main idea is so much the ob-
ject of each sentence that in conversation
one is not obliged to finish the phrase. He
admits its capital defect, "an orthography
so irregular, that it needs a year for most
children to learn to read." Its pronuncia-
tion, too, he considers wanting in distinct-
ness. Besides its structure, M. de Candolle
holds that its great advantage in the future
is the adaptation of its literature  which
above all suits  women. They find in it
a vast number of works written with perfect
purity and propriety, upon subjects which
most interest the female sex; such as reli-
gion, poetry, education, and the like.
	The future victory, however, of the En-
glish language the Swiss savant rests on
more scientific grounds. At the present
moment the English is spoken, he estimates
by seventy-seven millions of people in Eng-
land, Australia, and America. The German
includes sixty-two millions; the French, in
France, Belgium, and the colonies, forty
and one half millions. In England the
population doubles once in fifty years, so
that in a century, or 1970, it will reach the
sum of one hundred and twenty-four mil-
lions. In the United States, Canada, and
Australia, population doubles once in twen-
ty-five years, so that their numbers in 1970
will be seven hundred and thirty-six mil-
lions. The total number, then, of the Eng-
lish speaking people in 1970 will be eight
hundred and sixty millions. In Germany
on the other hand, the population in the
north doubles in from fifty-six to sixty years;
that of the south in one hundred and sixty-
seven years. Taking one hundred years as
the average, the number of the German
speaking people in 1970 will be one hundred
and twenty-four millions.
	In France the population doubles in about
140 years, so that in a century the French-
speaking people would amount to 69 1/2 mil-
lions. According to this estimate, the Ger-
man-speaking individuals would only form
the seventh part, and the French-speaking
only the twelfth or thirteenth part, of those
speaking English in 1970, and both together
would only amount to a quarter of the Eng-
lish-speaking races.
	The future victory of the English lan-
guage seems to this Swiss scholar assured.
His wise conclusion from this prediction is
that a heavy responsibility rests on the Eng-
lish-speaking races to preserve the purity
and unity of their tongue. The danger
which he fears is that English may break
into three languages related to one another,
like Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese. It
should be our noble ambition to preserve
one great and pure tongue—the tongue of
Milton and Shakespere—as the future uni-
versal language for the thought and busi-
ness of the world. Americans, he thinks,
will have the most influence in this work,
for their country will lead those of the Eng-
lish-speaking races. Thus far, we believe,
the language has suffered no perceptible
strain or corruption upon this continent.—Ex.


