THE SEX.

	MISS Emma Albani, the Albany prima
donna, is having an extraordinary success at
Covent Garden Opera, in Thomas's "Mig-
non."
	MISS Harriet Upton has bequeathed $1,
000 to the City of Salem, Mass., the inter-
est to be devoted to the poor every Thanks-
giving Day.
	MISS Emily Addis Fawcett has received
the medal of the London Society for the En-
couragement of Arts, Manufactures and
Commerce, for the best specimen of shell-
cameo cutting.
	MRS. C. E. Turner, of Ames, Iowa, has
been appointed to the chief management of
the editorial department of Dr. Sprague's
"Western Farm Journal," and has entered
upon the discharge of her duties.
	MRS. Martha Magee, 35 years old, of Gyn-
thiana County, Ky., owns 400 acres of land
in the blue grass region, and raises cattle
and takes them to market like other drovers.
She is a smart woman, and is respected by
the other drovers.
	LADY Amberley, who died a few weeks
since at her home in England, is well re-
membered in New York for her intelligence,
vivacity, and the deep interest she took in
every enterprise that could elevate the so-
cial condition or promote the interests of
women.
	MRS. J. B. Walker, of New Orleans, has
ready for publication a volume in memory 
of Captain Joseph Fry, commander of the 
ill-starred Virginius. The book is to be
published and sold exclusively for the bene-
fit of his destitute widow and seven chil-
dren.
	MRS. Mary C. Wilber, widow of the first
president of the Cincinnati Female College,
was honored by receiving the degree of A.
M. from that Institution, at its recent Com-
mencement. Mrs. Wilber is one of the 
board of instruction in the college.
	IT is a good thing for women to be able
to swim. Example: A few weeks ago, in
England, two boys went to bathe near King's
Cross, from a boat near shore. One got
beyond his depth, and would certainly have
been drowned, had not the cries of his com-
panions brought Miss Eliza Shaw, an excel-
lent swimmer, to the water, who instantly
plunged in, as she was, and caught the boy
just as he was sinking.


