ABOUT A UTAH LADY.

	Recently we had the pleasure of per-
using an account of a lady of this place—
the wife of a prominent citizen—which ap-
peared in the "New Mexico Advertiser,"
published at Las Vegas, New Mexico.
Thinking it will be of interest to many we
insert it. "Mrs. Emiline Kesler, one of the
wives of the Mormon Bishop Kesler of
Utah, after a stay of about six months in
several parts of this Territory investigating
thoroughly our social condition, etc., stop-
ped a few days in our city and starts this
afternoon or to-morrow for Salt Lake City,
via Pueblo. She was one of the pilgrims in
the great exodus from Navoo, Illinois, to the
New Jerusalem of the Utah Valley, and,
though then the mother of several children
she possesses still a fresh complexion, re-
markable physical vigor and intellectual
energy, which speaks more in behalf of the
much misrepresented and abused Mormons
than whole volumes could say.
	The short hour passed in earnest conver-
sation with said lady has afforded us a real
intellectual treat.
	Among many other sober observations,
Mrs. Kesler remarked that: If all the faults
of both the Mormon and Gentile schemes
should be shown in parallel lines, Mormon-
ism (with all its defects) would, by far carry
out the victory. For in Mormonism every
woman may have a husband and protector
if she wishes; while in Gentiledom not even
one third of the females can obtain a legal
husband in matrimony: the only way in
which woman can be crowned with the
brightest Diadem on earth; maternity. And
she adds: It is self-evident truth that it is
more honorable for a woman to be a second
or third wife of an honest and healthy man
by whom she may have several legitimate
children than to be the first concubine of a
gentleman(?) who can only give her bas-
tards or be every body's harlot for the con-
sideration of a few pennies as it happens
in Gentledom where owing to the so-called
Christian civilization and abnormal social
condition more than two thirds of the wo-
men see themselves obliged to pass a sad
life.
	Mrs. Kesler has been several times at the
polls, casting her vote for the rulers of Utah,
a fact that shows the freedom and respect
which the females of Utah enjoy. Wishing
her a pleasant trip, we leave to the wisdom
of our readers any comments on these sad
facts and naked truths."


A corespondent of the San Jose "Mercury"
asks the editor to explain why  woman is
carved in stone to represent Union, Elo-
quence, Fame and Truth, to ornament our
State Capitol—allowed no share in the Na-
tional speech-making yet represent Elo-
quence; should avoid publicty, yet represent
Fame; may not speak from the pulpit, yet
made the emblem of Truth?


MISS Francis Wrinkle of Lee, Mass., has
taken the prize of $10, awarded to the High
School students for the best composition on
Temperance, by the State Total Abstinence
Society.


