	SANTAQUIN, UTAH Co., Aug. 24th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation was organized Sept, 11th, 1873, with
Mrs. Mary Ann Stickney for President; Mrs.
Hannah Kirkman, Mrs. Julia D. Wilson,
Mrs. Caroline Maxham, Miss Edar Teitgen,
Miss Alice Wall and Miss Caroline Larson, for
Counselors, Mrs. Ann J. Stickney for Secre-
tary, and Miss Caroline Butler for Treasurer.
We have also a Teacher's Quorum; composed
of eight young ladies with a president.
	Our meetings are well attended and we all
feel well in the work in which we are en-
gaged. About forty of the members met
on the 21st inst. and spent the day, besides
partaking of a picnic-dinner, in quilting,
and sewing patch work and carpet rags for
the benefit of the Relief Society until 4 p.
m. when, according to adjournment, we
commenced our meeting which was opened
with prayer. The minutes of the last
meeting were read and accepted. Selec-
tions from the EXPONENT and other papers
were read and remarks were made by quite
a number of the sisters. Bro. Levi Han-
cock, who, being in the place, had been in
vited to meet with us, also made some very
encouraging remarks in favor of the Young
Ladies' Association. Meeting adjourned to
Sept. 3rd. Closed with prayer by Bro.
Hancock.
MRS MARY ANN STICKNEY, President,
		MRS. ANN J. STICKNEY, Secretary.

		PAYSON, UTAH Co. Aug. 27th, 1874.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The Relief Society of this place held its
fifth Annual meeting August 18th. Meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer;
followed by the calling of the roll and read-
ing of the minutes of last meeting. The
Financial Report, for the past year was
read which showed that during the year
the Society had given to the poor $127; to
the St. George Temple $53: and to the Tem-
ple in Salt Lake City $20.
	Pres. Mrs. Jane Simons spoke of the
organization and good results of the Relief
Society. Bishop J. S. Tanner and Elder T.
M. Coombs spoke about the United Order,
the laws and regulations of which were
read by Elder Coombs. Mrs. A. M. Snyder
read an original composition. Elders C.
Simons, W. Wignall, and H. Moore fol-
lowed with excellent remarks. Pres. Jane
Simons extended an invitation to all
present to partake of a picnic repast pre-
pared by the Teachers and a few of the
members, also desired their prayers in be-
half of her Counselor Agnes Douglass, who
was not well. Benediction by Elder I. M.
Coombs.
		MRS. JANE SIMONS, President,
			MRS. M. A. HARDY, Secretary.

		MONA, JUAB Co., Aug. 21st, 1874.
