HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Apple Pudding without Pastry.—Pare and cut
up enough apples to weigh two pounds. Boil them
and rub through a colander. Add a large spoonful
of butter while they are hot and when cold add ½
pound of crushed white sugar, 6 well beaten eggs, 
and the grated rind of a lemon. Pour the mixture 
into a deep dish, and bake for half an hour.

	Boiling Beef with Pork.—With a long, narrow,
sharp knife, make an incision in the beef length-
wise of the fiber; press into it closely a strip of 
fat pork, which should not be more than one inch
square. At intervals of an inch or two make
other incisions; fill with pork as before and boil as
usual. This beef is more palatable, particularly to
those persons who like a "streak of fat and a streak
of lean," and withal all is quite showy when cut
in slices to be eaten cold.

	To Preserve Grapes with Honey.—Take seven
pounds of good sound grapes on the stems, the
branches as perfect as possible, and pack them
snugly without breaking, in a stone jar. Make a 
syrup of four pounds of honey and one pint of good
vinegar, with cloves and cinnamon to suit (about 
three ounces each is our rule.) Boil them well to-
gether for twenty minutes, and skim well, then
turn boiling hot over the grapes, and seal imme-
diately. They will keep  years if you wish, and
are exceedingly nice. Apples, peaches, and plums
may be done  the same way.

	Cleansing Bottles.—The Manufacturer and 
Builder says:—Many persons clean bottles by put-
ting in some small shot and shaking them around.
Water dissolves lead to a certain extent, and a film
of this lead attaches itself to the sides of the bot-
tle so closely that the shaking or rinsing with water
does not detach it, and it remains to be dissolved 
by any liquid which has the least sourness in it, and
if drank, lead poison may be the result, sometimes
a shot becomes wedged in at the bottom of a bottle, 
to be dissolved by wine or cider. Therefore, it is 
better to wash every bottle, as soon as emptied,
with warm water and wood ashes, or saleratus, and
put the bottles away, mouth open and downward:
but be careful to wash again when used, as flies
and other insects frequently get into open bottles.

	Working too hard.—All over the land the cry is
from farmer's wives, "I'm so tired; my work is so
hard, I do not think farming pays, there is so much
hard labor connected with it." I wish I could say
to every one of them don't work all the time. Let 
something go undone if you cannot do it without
overtaxing your strength. Constant labor from
sunrise to sunset makes a joyless life. I remember
in my early married life, when my husband and I


first started on a new farm that I worked just as
hard as I could all the time for a week at a time.
I have washed and churned and baked (for a
small family to be sure), Mondays, besides doing
the inevitable work which comes every day in a
house. I look back now with regret on the waste
of strength I was guilty of by so doing. Big
day's works break down men and women both
prematurely. Have moral courage enough to be
called lazy rather than ruin your health by con-
tinuous hard labor. Do not consider the time
thrown away that you spend resting and reading.
Feed your mind as well as your body if you would
"live while you live."—A Farmer's Wife.


