HOME AFFAIRS.

	AT THE Museum, we were recently shown a
piece of the rock of Gibraltar; also a medal of
pure silver, struck in 1765 in "commemoration 
of the labors of the Freiberg School of mines,"
and representing the mode, at that time, of
mining and smelting the precious ore. These
interesting specimens were presented by Mr.
H. Sewell for a future Public Museum.
	ANOTHER INSTANCE of the evils of throwing
stones occured lately. Mr. D. Grenig's little
daughter, while playing in the garden, was
struck on the forehead with a stone thrown by
a boy about fourteen years old. The wound was
a severe one. Parents should warn their chil-
dren against such a dangerous practice and use
their influence to put a stop to it. 
	"SHOULD THIS meet the eye of Sarah Cox,
(Cose?) of Ogden City, please send proper ad-
dress to your sister Ellen. My letters all come
back, without reaching you, from Ogden Post
Office, and Utah, with the word "unclaimed"
writtend on them."—Ellen Stockholm, Michel-
bury Common, Monmouth, England.
	Aug. 11th, 1874.
	WE REFER to the unavoidable delay in mail-
ing our last issue to say that it was no fault of
the Business Manager, who was absent in the
country for a few days hoping to realize a nec-
essary improvement in her health, and had left
the business in competent hands but sickness
and other unforseen difficulties prevented,
much to our regret, the paper being sent in 
time.
	WE LEARN from San Bernardino papers that
Mrs. Elizabeth Hunt, mother of Col. J. A.
Kelting, died there, Aug. 8th, in her eighty-
ninth year. She is described as being a kind
hearted woman of very retentive memory and
superior intellectual and physical powers. In
the war of 1812 she took an active part, be-
ing the owner of several privateers; and at one
time went alone from Philadelphia, her native
place, to New York to see after her interests in
that business. In 1832-3 she twice visited the
unsettled Indian Territory; subsequently she
came to Utah and in 1863 moved to San Ber-
nardino, which she made her home.
	THE FOLLOWING returns of the election show
the choice of the people: For Delegate to Con-
gress; Geo. Q. Cannon received 23,299 votes; R.
N. Baskin 4,523; Scattering 19. Giving Mr.
Cannon a majority of 18,776. The "People's
Ticket," also carried the election of local offi-
cers, excepting in Tooele county, which we
understand is to be contested.


WE WERE much pleased with the follow-
ing passages in a letter to a former number
of the "New North West," and republish
them, hoping they may tend to dispel the
unjust and too prevalent idea that boys
must have a superior education even if
their sister's schooling be limited to obtain
it. "I know a mother who was left a widow
with four children, three girls and a boy.
The girls were limited in education in order
to give the boy the advantages he needed.


The mother said that education was not
necessary for women, for they would marry
and then never have time to make use of
it. The boy has always acted generously
by his sisters. He says their education was
limited on his account and now he must do
all he can for them. I speak of this young
man because he has proved faithful to his
trust when so many others have failed.
Many a young man will look down upon his
sisters, because he knows more than they,
when his superior knowledge has been pur-
chased at the expense of their own educa-
tional necessities."


