DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having been requested to write yo[-]
occasionally I cheerfully comply, although
it does not fall within the line of my usual
occupation. For the last few years my call-
ing, apart from the cares of my family, has
been to attend to the sick, as we have no
real doctors in this valley. I feel thankful
that I have, through the blessings of the
Lord, been an instrument in His hands of
relieving the afflicted; and I would suggest
to my sisters, would it not be better for us
to inform ourselves more in regard to our
children and their diseases, than spending
so much of our time with fashions and dress.
For what mother is there, who, when she
sees her children writhing in the agonies of
death, would not give all she possesses if
she could but relieve it. As I visit among
the sick, I find a great lack of education
among the sisters in regard to the natural
laws of health.
	Although we are a little on the outside of
your Territory, we wish to be numbered
with you and considered a branch of the
olive tree; not a dead branch but a living
one, and willing to join you, heart and
hand in every good work. We have a fine
valley here and a beautiful lake, abounding
with fish of the finest quality. There are
twelve towns or settlements in the valley,
and a Relief Society is organized in each set-
tlement. I think the members of the Paris
Relief Society number about one hundred,
and to my certain knowledge they are a
great blessing to the poor, the sick, and the
needy; although we have but few in our
midst who are not able to help themselves.
Our grain crops look promising; we antici-
pate a good harvest if the frost keeps off a
little longer. Your paper is duly apprecia-
ted and hailed as a welcome messenger
among the saints. I remain, as ever, your
sister in the Gospel.			E. G. R.


ANECDOTE.—Clergyman in the olden
time took great liberties in giving whole-
some advice in their sermons to individual
members of the congregation. When Mrs.
Abigail Adams, wife of President John
Adams, was married, her father, Rev. Mr.
Smith, of Braintree, Massachusetss, who was
a person of great humor and originality,
preached a queer sermon. On the occasion
of the marriage of his first daughter, Mary,
to a Mr. Cranch, he preached a sermon from
the text, "And Mary hath chosen that good
part which shall not be taken away from
her." John Adams was of a family of no
special position, and was not thought quite
good enough for the parson's daughter.
Moreover, he was a lawyer, and the law was
regarded in Puritan New England as a de-
vious and not altogether respectable profes-
sion. But John was an honest, temperate
young man, and the parson approved Abi-
gail's choice. Accordingly, the Sunday af-
ter their marriage, he preached from the
text, "And now came John; neither eating
bread, nor drinking wine, and ye say, he
hath a devil."


