	OF THE PAYSON RELIEF SOCIETY.

	This is an occasion calculated to awaken
many reflections in the minds of rational, 
intelligent beings. We have the past to re-
view, the future to contemplate but not in the
uncertain light that the world contemplates
the future. We, as children of the light,
have an assurance that the world has not;
an assurance that man cannot give nor take
away; then what manner of persons ought
we to be? Should we not seek to excel in
good examples all people upon the face of
the earth? knowing, as we do that the
time of God's judgments is nigh at hand
and nothing but strict obedience to every
word of God will avail us to turn away
His fierce indignation; for He will not
be mocked, neither can He look upon sin
with the least degree of allowance; and al-
so has He not called us from among all na-
tions and plead with us continually, from
the begining, to lay aside all our old leaven,
even the ways of the world and the fash-
ions of Babylon and become one in all things
according to the pattern given to the an-
cient saints? which Gospel has been revealed
in these last days and taught continually.
It is destined to stand, to revolutionize the
earth and bring in the reign of righteous-
ness and peace; to bring man back into the
presence of his Creater and continue his
eternal round of glory, honor, power, do-
minion and eternal increase. What intel-
ligent mind can contemplate these things
and not be filled with unspeakable joy? or
who can shrink from any duty, or cross or
sacrifice, if it can be called a sacrifice? for
are we not perishable and even the earth,
and the elements are to be dissolved and
pass away. But, behold! in obedience there
is safety, even when the heavens and the
earth shall have passed away, and, there-
fore let us be wise in the day of our proba-
tion and lay aside every weight and every
sin; even our unbelief which doth so easily
beset us, for the Prophet Joseph said that
unbelief was, of all others, the most easy
besetting sin and would lead to all other 
sins. Oh! then let, us be wise and lay aside 
every vain desire cultivate the spirit of
oneness and love, an unselfish love like that 
our Savior manifested, even that self-deni-
al which enabled him to overcome all the
powers of darkness and become sanctified
and glorified in a fulness of his Father's
presence. He has promised that they who
believe, nothing doubting, the things that
he did shall they do also. Now do we be-
lieve on Him? if so, let us arise and let our
light shine by strict obedience to every
word that shall proceed from His servants
and no power will be able to prevail against
his chosen people.


WHEN is a horse not worth a shilling?
When he is worthless.					

INTEREST-ING man—A bank clerk.


