DIVERSIONS.

	DECLINE of the bar—Closing of saloons.
	AN unpleasant sort of arithmetic—Divis-
ion among families.
	"THE cause of woman's suffrage."—Scar-
city of husbands. 
	WHEN are two kings like three miles?
When they make a league. 
	WHY is a ship always designated as "she"?
Because she always keeps a man on the
look-out.
	"Mynheer, do you know for what we call
our boy Hans?" "Do not really." "Well,
I tell you.  Der reason why we call our boy
Hans, dat ish his name."
	"CAST Iron Sinks" is written upon the
sign of a Hartford plumber. "Well, who in
the (hic) said it didn't?" chuckled an inebri-
ate man, after reading it over three times.
	A LADY under great affliction, which she
did not bear in a very angelic way, once
said to her friend "Oh dear, what should I
have done in all this without religion?"	"I am sure I cannot tell," was the answer;
"but you could not have done much worse
than you have with religion." 
	IT is said that one of the editors of the 
New Orleans paper, soon after learning the
printing business, went to see a preacher's
daughter. The next time he attended
meeting, he was astonished at hearing the
minister announce as his text. "My daugh-
ter is grievously tormented with a devil." 
	THE late Father O'Leary, who was well
known as a wit, had once a polemical con-
test with the protestant Bishop of Cloyne.
The prelate in  a pamphlet, inveighed with
great acrimony against the superstitions of
Popery, and particularly against the doc-
trine of purgatory. Father O'Leary, in his
reply, slyly observed, "that much as the 
Bishop disliked purgatory, he might possi-
bly go farther and fare worse." 
	THE customers of a cooper in the High-
lands caused him a great deal of vexation
by their saving habits and persistence in
getting their tubs and casks repaired, buy-
ing very little new work. "I stood it long
enough, however," said he, "until one day
old M'Cawbrie brought in an old bung hole,
to which he said he wanted a new barrel
made. Then I quitted the North in dis-
gust.
	AN Irishman was seen coming down
Montague Street, Brooklyn, on his way to
the Wall Street Ferry. Over his port shoul-
der hung a bag containing about a bushel of
potatoes, and in his starboard hand he car-
ried a stout stick. Being under full sail, the
momentum acquired in coming down the
steep grade carried him nearly through the
gateway, when, seeing a boat about ten feet
from the dock, he shook out another reef,
made an astonishing burst of speed, and
jumped. Just as he reached the dock the
potato bag shifted heavily to port and laid
out a Broad Street clerk who was smoking a
Henry Clay through a meerschaum holder,
while the stick hit a rotund South Street
merchant in the waistband, shutting him
up like a jackknife, and Pat himself as-
sumed an involuntary devotional attitude.
He was the first to recover his perpendicu-
larity, and as he replaced the bag in its nor-
mal position, he complacently remarked,
"By me sowl, but I got the boat anyway!"
"Got the boat!" screamed he of Broad
Street spitting the pieces of amber out of his
mouth, "why, you confounded idiot, this
boat is coming in!" And so she was.


