		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	A morning in June is not fresher and
sweeter with its perfume of flowers, breath
of roses, hum of bees and songs of birds,
than the presence of those who make the
best of everything. They fill the house with
sunshine and impart a soft and mellow ra-
diance to all around; out of the dry, color-
less, hard, forbidding, husks of life they
extract and hive sweet contentment, pure
satisfaction, and true happiness; culling
treasures on every hand.
	"A lucky temperament" you will say, yes,
temperament is much but so is training.
Do you suppose training counts for nothing?
Character is partially inherent but we are in
a great measure the arbiters of our own for-
tunes.
	Life, philosophers tell us, is but "little
better than a state of warfare;" then let us
call up all the forces of merit, strength of
mind and individuality to compete with it;
it is the little kindnesses, the little courte-
sies, the little charities that tell; they
smooth away the roughnesses of life and
render it more endurable. The truest cour-
tesy is impelled from a good heart. Smiles,
words of encouragement and praise are
needful for the soul's health; let no one de-
spise these small things nor believe them
beneath their notice and too trivial for their
attention. These are charities with which
money has no concern; opportunities for
doing good, which we all are in danger of
overlooking because they are common things
of every day occurrence and require so
small an effort. If we were careful to take
advantage of these little opportunities, the
day, that to another is insupportable would
be to us full of happiness.
	It makes, perhaps, but little difference to
mankind at large, whether we are happy or
unhappy but the greatest difference to our-
selves whether our  characters and faculties
are developed to the utmost or dwarfed and
stunted in their growth.
	You may, in fact, be very unhappily situa-
ted; your home disagreeable; your situation
deplorable; your surroundings discouraging;
your husband unsympathetic; you may have
poverty and sickness to contend with but if
you bravely meet your difficulties; if you
bring energy to bear in your endeavors to
overcome them; if out of your own sadness
you can learn to touch tenderly and soothe
the sadness of another; you will eventually
reap a fuller happiness than the first ephem-
eral enjoyments, you craved could possibly
have bestowed. One of the greatest bless-
sings given to us is, self-content, the feeling
that God's gifts have not been wasted in our
hands, the sense of an approving conscience;
and we cannot possess this (unless we are
inordinately vain conceited and self-glori-
fying) without having done our best; and
that development of character, must have
taken place in us whose influence is felt in
immense circles, ever widening like ripples
in the sea.
	Looking at it from this point of view, it
is easy to perceive that whatever exercises
to the farthest our better and stronger quali-
ties is really of the most permanent value
to us, and to the world.
	An untried disposition and temper is sim-
ply a negative virtue; but if, on the other
hand, our condition is not the best, if we are
frequently obliged to surrender our own
will, to repress our own wishes, be subject
to the annoyances of housekeeping to please
others, not ourselves, and not always be suc-
cessful at that; suffer the weakening of sick-
ness or pain, the loss of sleep through chil-
dren and other causes, have the parching, 
darning, and innumerable other little house-
hold duties to do, when other employments
would be so much more agreeable to our
natural tastes and inclinations, and have the
thousand vexations that accompany family-
life even under the most careful manage-
ment, where so many different natures
meet; if, out of this furnace we come "un-
singed by fire;" our patience refined, our
faith unimpaired, it is a positive and supe-
rior virtue.
	To live for others; to bless them; to sus-
tain them; to be an example of the perfec-
tion of womanhood, are possibilities which
ought to fertilize the most barren soul. God
has not given us faculties to lie dormant;
they wither and almost disappear if not
used, while the proper exercise of what is
best within us, develop strong characteris-
tics that not only have this effect and influ-
ence upon others about us but descend and
mold the generations to come.
	Let us then make the best of life and not
go about sorrowing and mourning, lament-
ing our cruel fate, our unhappy future; for,
when we deplore our own existence, we are
guilty of the sin of ingratitude, and injust-
tice to our Divine Creator, and are seeking
to thwart His purposes.
	Has a Being of infinite wisdom bestowed
upon mortals such lofty mental endowments,
such vast capacities to be trifled with or ig-
nored? assuredly not; our religion teaches
us to make the best of life; we are not left
to spell out our work by the light of nature
or to follow the dubious fancies and conjec-
tural uncertainties of philosophy in regard
to this; it has been revealed to us from heav-
en, and affirmed by Him whose word is
eternal truth, and He has given us the Com-
forter—if we will live for it—to help us
make the best of our lives here.
	Once more let me add: how fresh is the
picture of those who truly observe this
maxim! how reviving, invigorating and in-
spiring their presence! how heartily and
enthusiastically they are welcomed! This
positive influence is undoubtedly great, they
seem to create an atmosphere which is de-
lightful and exhilarating to breathe; and
we are all, being human, more or less sus-
ceptible to each others' influence.


