	HINTS ON EDUCATION.

	By looking around I am convinced that
the youth of this land, and indeed all lands,
perhaps, are but poorly taught the true ob-
jects of life. The race, in general are led
mainly by impulse the result of which, as
experience proves, are very deplorable and
should be remedied; not that I would wish
the vivacity and ardor of youth extinguished
in their breasts, but that it should be gov-
erned by intellect—that all our conduct
should have the sanction of the highest or-
der of judgment and morality. Any
other course in life will, of necessity result
in mischievous consequences and often in
the destruction of the greater part of our
future happiness.
	To perform the animal functions of our
nature seems to consume the time, health,
and strength, and happiness of a vast num-
ber of mankind; none of the faculties pro-
per to man are exercised otherwise than
as a means to minister to animal gratifica-
tion which is to a great extent, blamable to
the lack of proper education.
	I do not believe as some do, that to suffer
here will enhance our happiness in the
world to come. The laws of our physical
and mental organization should be taught
to all; and to comply with their require-
ments should produce a constant spring of
joy, and happiness, and all should be taught
as to the adaptability to these laws to their
God-ordained office. How full of advice
and warning, would be a page from the his-
tory and experience of many mothers to
their daughters; yet how few get it! How
much happiness, and how many lives are
sacrificed to the rearing of a large family
where the parental constitution says, only a
small one should have been reared. Many
young folks engage in marriage, and, for a
momentary pleasure, sacrifice their real hap-
piness, yet know no better until sad exper-
ience teaches them their folly.
	It appears to me the word "education" is
but little understood. To understand the
laws of our being and how to secure means
for proper obedience to them, should be the
basis of education and the object of all
teaching. It would be folly to teach a girl
the arts of agriculture, manufactures, etc. in
in preference to domestic duties and the
training of the young, yet how much nearer
is their usual training calculated to fit them
for the duties of their sex, in general?
The education that girls commonly receive
does not teach them such duties or their
nature but, to the contrary, engenders false
tastes and, to a degree, deteriorates them
for the performance of such duties. This
is especially true where great educational
faculties are enjoyed.
	To die, is not the normal destiny of in-
fants, yet, how many do, or I might have
asked how few do not! had the mothers
learned what the writer thinks they should,
their children would have lived, but as it is
many die because of ignorance. This is
painful to reflect upon. The knowledge
here indicated, given to girls would be su-
perior to to any other, because their in-
terests in eternity, as well as their present
happiness depend upon their actions here.
All who ever came to this earth, came to
mature but through the ignorance of those
who had their charge, very many have left
before half—yes, before their lives were
scarcely begun. That we should mature, is
the intention of our Maker. Age with its
gray locks is our destiny by nature, is one of
the greatest honors and is one of God's
best gifts to man, without which his life is
a partial failure.
	Then, mothers, teach your girls the true
objects and laws of life; teach them what
true happiness is and how to gain it; and
how to preserve those immortal buds to
body and spirit, which God may give them,
in health and consequently in beauty; that
they may wear the gray hairs of honorable
old age and when the ardor of youth has
given place to judgment, and youthfulness
to age they may reflect with pleasure upon
their past experience.			E. T.
