	RICHMOND, CACHE Co., Aug. 19th, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The young ladies of this place are very
much interested in our Retrenchment As-
sociation and already begin to realize
something of the importance of meeting
together to exchange ideas, thereby improv-
ing their own. In our tenth meeting, held
Aug. 12th, we had an excellent time; Sisters
Mary Freeze and Clara Conrad, of Salt Lake
City, being present. After singing and
prayer, Pres. Miss Mary Stewart read an or-
iginal essay on "Gratitude," (the subject
chosen for this meeting) and made a few en-
couraging remarks. Sister Mary Freeze, in
her remarks, said, "We do not know the
talents God has blessed us with, until we
try to improve ourselves and this is the
place to improve our minds. We are des-
tined to become great women, and if we
turn aside it were better for us that we had
never received the light. Every young
lady who joins this Association with the de-
sire of improving, will feel the Spirit of
God in her heart. Our spirits were reserved
to come forth in the "last days" to perform
a great work, and for this we should be
grateful." Sister Clara Conrad remarked,
while speaking; girls if you marry young
men who are lukewarm do not let them
make you so but live nearer to the Lord and
encourage your husband to do the same.
Women, as a general rule, do not realize
the great amount of influence they possess
over their husbands and if their influence
is properly used great good can be done.
Several other sisters addressed the meeting
and expressed themselves much pleased
with the instructions given.
	Our Association is constantly increasing
in numbers, there being at present about
fifty members. Our select readings consist
of articles from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Journal of Discourses, and other appropri-
ate books and papers. But the EXPONENT
is our favorite from which to select pieces
for reading, and we pray for its continued
success,
	MISS MARY STEWART, PRESIDENT;
		MISS PHEBE MERRILL, Secretary.

	NEPHI JUAB Co., Aug, 15th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Nephi Relief Society held their
yearly meeting on the eleventh of July.
There was a good attendance both of breth-
ren and sisters. Our pleasure was greatly
enhanced by an unexpected visit from Bros.
Smoot and Dusenbury, of Provo, Bro. Bring-
hurst of Springville, and by the presence of
our Bishop and his counselors. They all
manifested great interest in our welfare and
prosperity; gave us much good counsel; en-
couraged us to go on, and do all the good in
our power; to meet together often and en-
courage each other, which the faithful few
still continue to do realizing it is only
through faithfulness that they will obtain


the favored reward, Our Financial Report
is not as flattering as it sometimes is, still,
we have plenty to supply the wants of the
poor and some to spare.
	On the same day that our yearly meeting
occurred, myself with several other sisters
prepared a little surprise party for our be-
loved President. After meeting commen-
ced—our arrangements having been made
beforehand—two sisters slipped out of meet-
ing, went to her house, obtained the door
key from her fun loving husband and ar-
ranged everything while she was absent.
The brethren from Provo and Springville—
who happily surprised us all—were let into
the secret and requested to follow her home
in company with the brethren of this place
that had been invited. Her counselors pro-
posed to go home with her which she
thought quite unusual for them. When she
got near home, she remarked to them that
the brethren seemed to be all going her
way, wished she had a good supper ready
that she could invite them to partake of
but, at any rate would ask them to call and
take a glass of home-made wine, which she
did and which invitation they accepted.
Imagine her surprise, when she came to her
door, found it open and a well filled table,
spread the entire length of the room. We
kept our secret well for she had not received
the least hint of it or even suspected any-
thing. She was so overcome at the expres-
sion of good feelings towards her that,
though she could say but very little, her
eyes told her gratitude to her heavenly
Father and her friends for such a manifes-
tation of respect and esteem, of which she
is well worthy. All went off pleasantly, and
we had a good time together.
	Wishing you succes with your valuable
paper, I remain Your Sister in the Gospel.
			AMY L. BIGLER, Secretary.

