HELP-MEETS.

	The ideas of most young girls concern-
ing married life, are generally so vague and
visionary that it is no wonder they are apt
to be disappointed when the sober reality of
care and responsibility settles down upon 
them. They are to be pitied rather than
blamed, since they have been either illy
taught, or not taught at all, the correct posi-
tion they must assume the day they don the
title of wife. It is not uncommon for young
girls to plunge direct from school into the
sea of matrimony, unsupported by a single
sensible notion of the life upon which they
enter, and what can be expected to follow
but failure and discontent? Marriage to
them is a sort of materialized Heaven; it is
so sweet to love and be loved; orange flow-
ers, bridal presents, and a fine looking hus-
band are so prominent in their day-dreams,
as to exclude homelier, but full as impor-
tant, accessories from their fanciful vision.
	After the days of the honeymoon pass,
the veil gradually uplifts, and they find
themselves forced to the performance of
duties disagreeable, and oftentimes uncon-
genial. It is different from what they ex-
pected, and, naturally enough, they feel that
they have not received the equivalent due
them. It is not the fault of the young
wife, but owing, in most cases, to lack of
sense displayed by those whom experience
should teach better. Had these girls been
instructed that marriage is a vineyard, in
which, properly, both parties should labor,
that the woman must do her part as well as
the man, that to promote happiness, comfort,
and prosperity, she must be emphatically a
help-meet, and not a help-eat, why then 
they might have taken their choice and
have no one to blame but themselves. Left
to herself, how does a girl of seventeen un-
derstand these matters?
	It was originally intended that the wife
should be a help-meet to the husband, not
an idle, listless woman, fritting away her
moments in useless employments that inter-
fere with the proper and conscientious per-
formance of her duties. When a man mar-
ries, his whole future often depends on the
sort of woman he marries, especially if he
is poor, and has his own fortune to carve.
If the wife is not prudent, wise, and ener-
getic, he will remain forever a mere power-
less machine dragged down by a dead
weight. It is the men whose wives have
proved themselves help-meets, truly, that
are the rich men of to-day; they may at-
tribute their wealth to speculation, keen
business talent, or anything their pride my
suggest, but examine closely the machinery
that backs them, and you will find it well-
greased with the oil of feminine craft. Men
are inclined to be extravagant, and, if helped
on and encouraged by spendthrift wives,
will lay up no pennies for the "rainy" days
of life.
	A woman should be proud to be a help-
meet to her husband. These poetical fan-
cies concerning the ivy and the oak are very
pretty, and, to a certain extent, appropriate,
but, as an American writer finely expresses
it, "the ivy should always be ready to stand
alone, if the oak shows signs of weariness."
Some women seem to have no self-depen-
dence; they throw all the burdens of life
on to their husbands' shoulders, and cannot
act for themselves in the smallest matters.
	It is certainly not a woman's place to
earn daily bread for a strong, able-bodied
man to eat, but we have noble instances on
record, where, in case of failing health or
accident, the wife has stood up equal to the
emergency, and exhibited her capacities
most thoroughly in this respect. The in-
creasing advantages daily accruing to Ameri-
can women for educating and fitting them-
selves for the pursuit, even, of masculine
occupations, render them able on necessity
to make themselves help-meets and bless-
ings to their husbands and families. May
such be the choice of all.—Lady's Journal.


