R.S. REPORTS.

	Minutes of a meeting of the Young La-
dies' Retrenchment Associations of Salt
Lake City, held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, August 29th, 1874.
	Meeting opened with singing, "Arise my
soul arise." Prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Zina D. Young. Singing, "Glorious things
are sung of Zion."
	It was moved and seconded that Mrs.
Maggie M. Groo act as Secretary of the
meeting.
	The following Wards were represented:
the 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 17th and 19th. The minutes of
the Junior Associations of the 8th and 11th
Wards were read.
	Remarks by President Mrs. M. I. Horne:
—If there is one thing I like more than an-
other, it is to see you young ladies stepping
forward and striving to do your duty. To
me it is a cheering sight. If you seek for
the Spirit of God you will be enabled to
speak such things as will be beneficial to one
another. The ideas that are advanced by
you young ladies are excellent; continue in
the way you are going and when you be-
come aged you can look back upon your for-
mer days with pleasure. We ought to feel
thankful that we are living in the days when
there are prophets and apostles, and appre-
ciate the blessings which God has bestowed
upon us. One should not depend upon an-
other, but each should know for herself that
this is the Kingdom of God. By the still
small voice of the Holy Spirit you can know,
and by asking of God your Heavenly Father.
I hope you will all fit and qualify yourselves
to fill responsible positions, and that your
lives will be such as will be worthy of imi-
tation. After many other good remarks she
said, "May God bless you is my prayer in
the name of Jesus."
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said:—I can
truly say that I am gratified with what I
see before me. If there should be another
meeting of this kind, we want each Ward
Association to bring the minutes of one
meeting. The young ladies of Ogden rep-
resent a large assembly and we thought that
if the Young Ladies' Associations of this city
could be brought together, there would be as
many as those who met in Ogden. Sister
Horne has been speaking about your filling
the positions that we are now filling: You
will have to fill greater positions as you have
greater privileges and blessings than we
had when we were young. When I was
young and attended Sunday school and re-
peated passages of Scripture concerning
Christ and his apostles, and the miracles
they performed, I used to wish that I had
lived in those days, and thought those who
lived then were greatly blessed. Do we
appreciate the blessings we have in these
days when there are prophets and apostles?
True, we do not have Jesus in person, but
we have his spirit. Does each one of you
know that this gospel is true? Your pa-
rents know by testimonies which they have
received, and it is your privilege, each one
of you, to know that this work is true but
you must seek for the knowledge if you
would obtain it. It is the privilege of each
young lady here before me to become a
queen in heaven. This is the design of our
Heavenly Father; but you cannot attain to
this without preparing yourselves for it by
keeping the commandments of God, and
serving Him with your whole hearts. To
live your religion, will not deprive you of
any true enjoyment. Our aim in exhorting
you to be truly Saints, is to increase your
happiness—to guide you to that which is
higher, nobler and purer than all earthly
things can possibly impart—that which the
Spirit of God alone can bestow. In the
minutes of your meetings are many testi-
monies from those who know that this is the
Kingdom of God. Let me exhort you, my
young sisters, to be energetic in attendance
of your meetings. You cannot attach too
much importance to them. After other in-
structions, Miss Snow blest the young ladies,
and was followed by
	Mrs. Z. D. Young, who said that it
takes a good deal of moral courage at
present, with all the variety of influ-
ences in our midst, for the young to live the
religion of the Gospel. She cited the atten-
tion of the young sisters to the position of
Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden and
said it was their privilege, hereafter to stand
in the same position as Eve, at the head of
a world; and exhorted them to prepare them-
selves for all that is in store for the faithful.
She said: Sister Snow is willing to render
you all the assistance she can; it does not
diminish her stock of knowledge but in-
creases yours. You should keep a diary,
and pen down what occurs of interest each
day, also write your thoughts so that when
you write a letter you can write it readily
without hesitation. You should never be
afraid to ask whether you are right or
wrong; go to your mothers with your trou-
bles and ask their advice. I ask God to
bless you.
	Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kimball said:—I
feel to ask an interest in your faith and
prayers that I may be able to speak to you.
Sister Snow said she had been anxious for
the welfare of the young for the last four
years but to my certain knowledge she has
been anxious for a great number of years.
It would be very beneficial to hear you young
ladies speak but you will another day.  The
majority of the young ladies are not here
to-day. I ask God to bless you.
	Coun. Mrs. E. Howard made interesting
remarks, with words of wise counsel, en-
treating the young sisters to put in practice
what they had heard, etc.
	Counselor E. R. Snow said that if it would
be agreeable there would be another meet-
ing of the same kind four weeks from to-
day; and that Mrs. E. Barney proposed to
teach a class of young ladies in reading.
	Mrs. Barney made some excellent remarks.
Mrs. W. East bore her testimony to what
had been said. It was moved and unani-
mously carried that the proposed meeting
take place. Meeting then adjourned for
four weeks. Singing, "Praise God from
whom all blessings flow." Benediction by
Mrs. W. East.

