YOUTHFUL EXPERIENCE.

	The celebrated Prof. Tindal, in speaking
of his own life, says:—Not as a servant of
Mammon do I ask you to take science to
your hearts, but as the strengthener and
enlightener of the mind of man. Might I
now address a word or two to those who in
the ardor of youth feel themselves drawn
towards science as a vocation. They must,
if possible, increase their facility to origi-
nal research, prizing far more than the
possession of wealth an honorable standing
in science. They must, I think, be prepared
at times to suffer a little for scientific
righteousness, not refusing, should occasion
demand it, to live low and lie hard to achive
the object of their lives. I do not here
urge anything upon others that I should
have been unwilling to do myself when
young. Let me give you a line of personal
history. In 1848, wishing to improve my-
self in science, I went to the university of
Marburg—the same old town in which my
great namesake, when even poorer than
myself, published his transaction of the
Bible. I lodged in the plainest manner, in
a street which, perhaps, bore a appropriate
name while I dwelt upon it. It was called
the Ketzerbach—the heretic’s brook—from
a little historic rivulet runing through it.
I wished to keep myself clean and hardy;
so I purchased a cask and had it cut in two
by a carpenter. Half that cask, filled with
spring water over night, was placed in my
small bed-room, and never during the years
that I spent there, in winter or in summer,
had the clock of the beautiful Elizabether-
kirche, which was close at hand, finished
striking the hour of 6 in the morning be-
fore I was in my tub. For a good portion
of the time I rose an hour and a half earlier
than this, working by lamplight at the dif-
ferential calculus when the world was slum-
bering around me. And I risked this breach
in my pursuits and this expenditure of
time and money, not because I had any defi-
nite prospect of material profit in view, but
because I thought the cultivation of the
intellect important—because, moreover,
I loved my work, and entertained the
sure and certain hope that armed with
knowledge, one can successfully fight one's
way through the world. It is with the
view of giving others the chance that I
then enjoyed that I propose to devote the
surplus of the money which you have so
generously poured in upon me. In the edu-
cation of the young philosophers in Ger-
many, I ought not, for their sake to omit one
additional motive by which I was upheld at
the time here referred to—that was a sense
of duty. Every young man of high aims
must, I think, have a spice of this principle
within him. There are sure to be hours in
his life when his outlook will be dark, his
work difficult, and his intellectual future
uncertain. Over such periods, when the
stimulous of success is absent, he must be
carried by his sense of duty. It may
not be so quick an incentive to glory, but
is a nobler one, and gives a tone to the char-
acter that glory cannot impart. That un-
flinching devotion to work, without which
no real eminence in science is now attaina-
ble, implies the writing at certain times of
the stern resolve upon the students charac-
ter. "I work, not because I like to work,
but because I ought to work." In science,
however, hope and duty are sure to be ren-
dered identical in the end.


"LOVE," says an amorous writer, "is an
internal transport" The same might be
said of a canal boat.
	"I HOPE your honor is not hurt" said a
passer-by to Judge G., who had fallen upon
a slippery side-walk. "No," said the Judge,
sternly, my honor is not hurt, but my head
is."


