Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1900 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" CURRENT EVENTS: In South Africa the Boer situation continues to be a vexed question. Kruger is still defiant and declares that the war will last a long time vet. There can be no doubt but that England will be victorious in the end. The assassination of King Humbert of Italy by an anarchist, is one of the sad events of the month. His son, Victor Emanuel III, in order to avoid riots and disorder, immediately ascended the throne.... The Paris Exposition still continues to draw large crowds, as many as half a million were reported to be in attendance in one day. The campaign for the election of a president of the United States, and also local officers, has just commenced. —Ella W. Hyde THE DOMESTIC SCIENCE CLASS: One of the necessities of all cities, and especially Salt Lake, is a School of Domestic Science... For these young girls who are growing up and know not "when the hour cometh" that they may be called upon to preside in the kitchen.... This school of ours was held in the Normal school building of the University and was a success and exceeded our most sanguine expectations. It was started without a cent of money but with the proverbial generosity of the Salt Lake people a stove, dishes, cooking utensils, etc. Were donated.... The cooking department was presided over by Miss Emily Cannon, a graduate of the Boston School of Cooking. The art of housewifery was taught by Miss Edna May Davis, a thoroughly competent instructress. In the sewing room Miss Mary S. Smith, a graduate of the Pratt Institute, N. Y., taught the girls the different stitches, hemming, felling, patching, darning, etc., and impressed upon them that "a stitch in time saves nine." —News Note—L. M. R. ACROSS THE YEARS Across the years I hear your loving voice, Urging me always to some higher aim, When I have won I know that you rejoice; When I have failed you grieve but do not blame. If in my humble way some good I do, I owe it to those other years and you. —Jennie Noonan Wheless RELIEF SOCIETY IN BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO): The Stake presidency of the Relief Society of Bannock Stake, President Mary A. Call, Counselors Sarah M. Call and Rosa B. Knowles, and Secretary Hannah C. Hatch, have made their annual visit through the Stake, their starting point being the Lund Ward.... The next two wards visited were Thatcher and Cleveland.... We held meetings in both wards and gave some good instructions to the attending sisters.... The next place visited was Trout Creek where we lunched with President Mary Jensen, then held meeting.... The next place was Grace. We traveled late to get there, in wind and dust. Soda Springs was the next place visited, where we enjoyed the delightful soda water... We had a good meeting.... The last meeting was held at Chesterfield.... The Stake presidency gave some good instructions... And thought the sisters were doing a good work in this part of the Lord's vineyard. —Hannah C. Hatch, Sec. Page 654 HE Honorable Masa (Mrs. Fukuzo) Nakayama was named Japanese Minister of Welfare in ceremonies at the Imperial Palace, July 19, installing the new Prime Minister Hayato Ikeda and _ his cabinet. Mrs. Nakayama is a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio, and a member of the Japanese branch of UNESCO. Her hobby is flower arrangements, and she has the honorary title of Graduate Flower Arranger. She has an honorary American degree of Doctor of Laws, and is indeed well fitted to become Japan's first woman cabinet minister. Mrs. Nakayama is sixty-nine years old. UTH ADDISON is the first woman to achieve the equivalent of deputv minister's rank in the Canadian government. She is one of three Civil Service Commissioners who formulate and direct the policies pertaining to 140,000 government employees. Her colleagues say that "she is effective, but every inch a lady." ARA SABIN, Bountiful, Utah, a contributor to The , has collected a large number of her poems into a volume entitled "