Faith Pauline L. Jensen | tore a page from the calendar the other day, and noted how short was the time until spring would be here. There was nothing outside that remotely suggested its nearness. There was snow on the ground, and the trees were bare, and I had a nostalgic remembrance of other springs, in faraway places. One stood out in my memory above all others, and my thoughts traveled back nine years, and six hundred miles, and I was once more in suburban St. Louis, Missouri. Even now I recall in detail that scene, and each word. I saw my husband's face, pale, and lined, and I heard his voice saying, "This transfer is something I've wanted for years. It is what I have striven and worked for. I know that my health is poor, and the risk we are taking is great. But, somehow, I truly believe that this change is just what I need. I believe it is meant that we go, and that my health will improve there, and things will be better. We have to believe that! We have to have faith!" I looked out of the window at the bright green grass and the golden forsythia, and I thought I had never seen spring any lovelier. From his perch in the maple tree J heard the cardinal sing to his mate, and I saw the dip and flash of a bluebird's wings. I knew that in just a few weeks the air would be filled with the fragrance of roses and waxen magnolias. And I wondered what spring would be like in that far northern city, and how it could possibly be spring anywhere without bluebirds and cardinals, magnolias and forsythia. And I wondered how I could say to my husband, "You're a sick man, far more so than you realize, and the doctors can't seem to find what is wrong. You aren't well enough to take on additional responsibility, and although you want it so much, the chance we take in this move is too great. Here, we have roots and home and friends and a measure of solid security. 'The children are happy, and their ties are many. If we go to a strange place, we have no assurance that such a change will be for the better. What if your health doesn't improve? Suppose that we go among strangers and something should happen?" Then I looked at the face of my husband, and saw the desperate plea in his eyes, and I knew that I wouldn't say any of those things. I knew that we'd go to that northern city, and I knew we would need every ounce of faith we could muster! And faith was our handmaiden through all of the days that followed as, one by one, we relinquished the bounds of security. The home that we loved became just a house; the college scholarship, insuring our child's education, went back to be claimed by another. Each precious thing that had filled our days was abandoned. The friends that had meant so much were bidden goodbye, and all that was left to sustain us was faith! Now it is nine short years since we came to this city of lakes and trees and beautiful homes. I look out of the window and see not green grass and golden forsythia, but softly falling snow that has hidden and muted everything ugly. And I hear not the cardinal's song, but the raucous cries of a bluejay. And instead of magnolias, I think of the white sails on Lake Calhoun, and sunset on Lake Minnetonka, of the moon shining down on the Lake of the Isles, and the beautiful trees that border the parkways. And I think of all of the wonderful people we now call friends. I look at the glowing face of my husband, and hear his firm step and his confident voice. I think of all of the joyous things that this move has brought, and I know in my heart what a wondrous gift is the power of faith!