MY THIRD GRANDMA guess it was the butcher knife that was the constant reminder of the heritage of Grandma Morgan, formerly of India right around the world. Its like has only been found in the Smithsonian Institute in a wing dedicated to India, Burma, and Hindustan. We were a little afraid of that knife, with its point so fine one could have written a letter with it. And we early understood that no one, except Grandma, yes, no one on earth, could use it for any purpose whatsoever. After all, hadn't this little creature carried it all the way around the world wrapped in a piece of coral silk? And wasn't it her father's father's father's? Her use of that sword, for that it was, was as startling as its appearance. She tested the new bread for temperature, and then tucked the loaf under her arm high above the waist. The bent arm sort of balanced the loaf and her fingers steadied it. Then she picked up the sabre and began to swipe it through the air, first into a pat of homemade butter and then swiftly back and forth across the butt end of the loaf. Only a hummingbird with its sword bill longer than its body could move faster than that historical weapon. After this thorough buttering, she tackled the loaf, still held under her arm, with a sawing motion of the knife. As the slice almost slid to the floor, she gracefully bent toward 665 the valet and let it fall, face up, on a little plate. Generally we were allowed to have the first pieces, depending on whether we were girls or the littlest. You will note that various ages and sexes had smelled that baking wonder from far down in the lot. We lined up, feeling starved to death at the mere whiff of golden crust. Needless to say, we ruined at least one loaf for consumption at a regular meal, whether it was the usual bread and milk supper or the hot dinner at noon when the farm hands had their big meal of the day. The more we ate, the smaller our appetites became, until at last we just sighed our gratitude. At that moment, then, Grandma wiped off the blade of this weapon of her departed forebears and reverently laid it in its shallow place, motto side up. The elaborately carved words could be easily read, if one knew a language thousands of years old, and Grandma did, or so we believed— The Peace of God Be With You. It certainly didn't look like that much writing to us, only three or four curvy designs, a little more golden in the area where Grandma's fingers pressed it for buttering. But she always read the markings aloud as she shut the drawer, and we believed her interpretation. Perhaps, as she said the words, she felt less homesick for her father's father's father's land. <->