The Song of the Lark Ivy Williams Stone T was not there! I looked carefully around gallery 32 of the Chicago Art Institute, then consulted the catalog I had _purchased on my last visit, two: years earlier. It should have been there, it was so listed, "Breton's 'Song of the Lark' in gallery 32, Modern French Artists." But there was no painting of a peasant girl, with sickle, bare feet, and snooded hair. I approached a guard, pacing slowly from room to room. 'That his occupation was just a job was evident in his attitude. He was bored with his inactivity, irked at the often inane questions of tourists. "I do not find Breton's 'Song of the Lark,'" I said. "Has it been moved to some other gallery?" The guard did not slacken his measured steps, nor unfold his arms, nor even look at me. "It's out on loan tour," he answered over his shoulder, as he walked toward another room. Out on loan tour. Those four words cut into my consciousness like a whip. It couldn't be. I had brought our two children from Utah to Chicago to give them fine cultural contacts. To me this picture was the epitome of artistic achievement. We would go to New York. They would see Bonheur's "Horse Fair"; "The Hand of God," by Rodin; and Cleopatra's Needle. Crowds, elevated trains, subways, Wall Street, Ellis Island—all would provide new vistas for impressionable youth. But I wanted my son and daughter to see "The Song of Page 156 the Lark." Some critics maintain the girl's smile is more inspiring than the famed one of Mona Lisa. "Oh!" I cried out. In my disappointment I was the outspoken westerner. But there was no one to share my disappointment, for I had come alone to locate the best exhibits, while the children watched some tennis matches. "Oh!" I repeated. "Why, I brought two children fifteen hundred miles to see that picture!' I spoke to the disappearing back of the bored guard. He was methodically pacing into the next room. Pictures were just pictures to him. My quandary was not his concem. I stood baffled, staring at the spot where the picture should have been. What should I tell the children? 'Their interest was spurred and fed by my enthusiasm. Only too well I knew they would find other diversions. My daughter wanted to attend a shoe sale at Marshall Fields; my son hoped to see a sparring match between a jewfish and a shark in the Shedd Aquarium. A gentle voice at my elbow brought me back to reality. "Pardon me, Madam." The low, modulated voice was like the first trickling from thawing spring snows back home. "I heard what you said to the guard. The picture is not loaned. It is in retirement. You see, the Institute owns so many thousands of famous canvases, we sox a Institute of; Chicago THE SONG OF THE LARK From a Painting by Jules Adolphe Breton Page 157 158 have to rotate them. But fifteen hundred miles is a long distance, and your children must not be disappointed. I shall personally conduct them to the storage gallery. Shall we say, tomorrow, at ten?" I looked into the smiling face of a man so delicately molded, it seemed he had stepped down from one of the decorative pieces of priceless china. His thin, transparent hands, his small figure, his disarming smile, all bespoke the connoisseur. Back in the hotel, I schooled the children all evening, so they would be appreciative of this unusual service. I borrowed a book on French art from the hotel library; we studied a good reproduction of the original we were about to see; learned the highlights of Breton's career. "The shoe sale will be over by the time we can get there," protested my daughter. "I did so want a pair of those open-toed, patent leather, French heels. 'There isn't a store in our State that carries the style I want. What's an old picture, anyway?" Promptly at ten the next morning we reported to the little man at his desk in gallery 32. His hands seemed more transparent when grasped by my towering son. We went along hallways, where uniformed guards touched their caps, as they unlocked gates for us. The little man explained everything. The Institute buildings were fireproof, burglarproof, even earthquake-proof. Down elevators, along more hallways. Always the guards touched their caps, always locked gates were opened to us. Finally RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 we came to the aisle marked "French: igth century." At a signal from our guide, a guard unlocked the final gate, and we were ushered into an_ air-cooled, tomblike room, lined with rows upon rows of portable racks. "Breton," spoke our guide, and a button was pushed. A rack rolled out. Another button, and the large canvas of "The Song of the Lark" stood out alone. It was illumined. I was suddenly happy, for both children were awed. There stood the peasant girl, with her coarse garments, her huge, hardened bare feet; the strength of her sickle hand plainly revealed. The lark was soaring from its nesting place in the brown furrow; with a song on her own lips, the girl watched its ascent. Health was evident in every line of her body, as though born of the green meadow and the brown earth of the field. The sun, just rising over the distant treetops, illumined her face. From her snooded hair to her feet she revealed contentment and peace. The green meadow, the freshly plowed furrows, the azure sky, all climaxed her inexplicable smile.. HE children studied the picture and listened to a half-hour discourse on the works of Breton, artist and poet. As they studied the picture, I studied its effect upon them. My faith was vindicated. The delicate voice of our guide recited some of Breton's poetry. Born a French peasant, Breton had lived in the deep poverty of the downtrodden poor. He had experienced the revolution of 1848. He excelled in depicting the despair of the country folk. A painter of rustic life, a THE SONG OF THE LARK man of the poor. The peasants of his day were fortunate to have sabots for Sunday wear. The school children of Chicago had voted this picture the most popular in the entire Institute. As we retraced our course, gates were locked behind us. Up elevators, along steel-barred halls, and finally out into the light of the galleries, we went. My son's demonstration of courtesy, his speech of thanks to our kindly guide, gave me added joy in being his mother. My adolescent daughter had a dreamy, faraway expression in her eyes. She looked at her trimly shod feet and whispered to me: "All she ever had were wooden clogs." Our guide gave me his card, shook hands all around, and quickly left us. We sauntered through gallery after gallery. The children, rather than I, wanted to see more. The guard was doing his paces from room 159 to room. His arms were folded, his face bored. As we stood on the front steps of the Institute, flanked by the guarding lions, I glanced at my watch. "We still have time to get to Marshall Fields," I said to my daughter. "Perhaps you can yet find what you want in shoes. And I feel sure the Shedd Aquarium will be open this afternoon." She glanced at her sensible, durable, walking oxfords. "These are good enough," she smiled. "I guess French heels would be hard to walk in" "What's a couple of sparring fish?" countered my son. "Heigh," he queried, "who was that little man, anyway? What's his name?" I held the card in my palm, and all three of us looked at the printing. Our guide had been an assistant curator of the Chicago Art Institute. Shreads of Destiny Elizabeth Terry Blair We weave the threads of destiny; The warp is all our own; No matter what the filling is, We reap what we have sown. We thread the shuttle day by day, Regardless of the cost; Sometimes we gain a rich reward, Again a soul is lost. Then let us weave the best we can, Whatever we may do, A fabric fit for God and man, A fabric firm and true.