Hawaii and the Latter-day Saints Rosannah Cannon Irvine Former Member, Relief Society General Board ESUS said, "Go ye into all the J world, and preach the gospel to every creature' (Mark 16:15). Inspired by that sacred injunction, missionaries were sent to carry the "glad tidings" to the natives of the Sandwich Islands. 'Ten young men, who were working in the gold mines of California at the time, were chosen. They were not miners for per sonal gain, but for the benefit of their impoverished Church. 'They were called and set apart by Apostle Charles C. Rich, who was authorized to do so by President Brigham Young. 'The names of these men are worthy of note: Hiram Clark, president of the group; 'Thomas Whittle, Henry W. Bigler, James Keeler, John Dixon, 'Thomas Morris, William Farrer, James Hawkins, Hiram Blackwell, and George Q. Cannon. December 12, 1850, after a four weeks' tortured and terrifying sea voyage, these missionaries arrived in Honolulu, friendless, homeless, sick, half-starved, and totally exhausted. The sight of the beautiful city and the thanks to their Heavenly Father for at last finding themselves on dry land, made them forget, to some degree, their physical suffering and mental distress. Their first act was characteristic of the pioneer spirit of our early Church members. 'They climbed a nearby mountain and built an altar where they knelt in prayer, giving grateful thanks for their safe deliverance. There is an old adage that, "The Page 166 saddest fortune may be turned to beauty by patience and faith." With these men it must have taken superhuman faith and patience to carry on. In beginning their work, these elders, being unable to understand the natives, their language, or customs, devoted their attention to the white people. 'They soon discovered, however, that the "haole" (white people) were stubbornly hidebound in their own particular religious sects. Protestant missionaries had begun their work there many years before the Latter-day Saint mission was opened and most of those people and their ministers were bitterly antagonistic to our Church. Making no progress with them, half of our delegation became discouraged and left, some for home and some for what they thought might be more fertile fields of labor. Among this last number was President Clark, who before he left, however, baptized a sixteen-year-old boy, the first Hawaiian to become a member of the Church. 'Those who remained where they had been called to labor were James Keeler, Henry Bigler, James Hawkins, William Farrer, and George Q. Cannon. George Q. Cannon felt strongly that they should remain among the people to whom they had been sent, and yet his mind was in a turmoil. Being obedient to authority was a vital and necessary principle of the Church, that he believed with his whole heart. And Hiram Clark was HAWAII AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS his president, and although he did not insist, he wanted the elders to follow him. In his distress, Elder Cannon sought the Lord in prayer, as was his custom. 'The earnestness of his supplication brought him the definite assurance that he should remain in Hawaii. The four others agreed with him. They also had made it a matter of fasting and prayer. BECAUSE of his determination to do his duty as it had been revealed to him, Elder Cannon was given phenomenal courage and faith, and with it the gift of tongues, the power to understand and love the natives, and a magnetic spirit to attract their love and devotion to himself. Although he was the youngest of the group he soon became their leader, and remained so until the arrival of more elders from the States, with Philip B. Lewis as mission president. 167 These first missionaries, and those who succeeded them for many years afterwards, were real pioneers, and bore many hardships, but they were stalwart and faithful. Among the names of those early missionaries, was that of Joseph F. Smith, a mere boy of sixteen at the time, but with an integrity and faith unsurpassed in Latter-day Saint history. Joseph F, Smith performed four missions in Hawaii, and was dearly beloved by those people. In 1860, a man named Walter M. Gibson, who had recently been baptized into the Church, went to Hawali, representing himself as president of the mission. 'This was when the saints on the islands had been left temporarily to themselves. On account of the Johnston Army trouble, the Utah elders had been called home. Gibson's spirit and policies were so utterly different from the real missionaries that the faithful saints became suspicious PULEHU CHAPEL AND MONUMENT This chapel and monument have been erected on the sacred ground where the first Hawaiian branch of the Church was organized. 168. D. S. HAWAIIAN RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 MISSION IN GRATEFVL REMEMBRANCE OF THE je E ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHVRCH IN HAWAII. NEAR THIS SPOT THE FIRST BAPTISM (PALE) WAS PERFORMED AND THE FIRST BRANCH OF THE CHVRCH ORGANIZED IN 1851 BY. GEORGE Q. CANNON AND: JAMES KEELER Sr ONES ES Soke. Ae lggiii ee INSCRIPTION ON THE PULEHU MONUMENT This inscription commemorates the organization of the first Hawaiian branch of the Church. And sent word to President Young. The apostles Ezra T'. Benson and Lorenzo Snow, with Elders Joseph F. Smith, William W. Cluff, and Alma L. Smith, were sent in 1864 to the islands to investigate. Their findings proved that the fears of the natives were well-founded. Conditions were so bad that it was necessary to excommunicate Elder Gibson. He had made many followers among those whose faith in the gospel was not strong. While going from one island to another, the small boat in which Brother Snow and the other elders were traveling, was upset in a turbulent sea. Those who reached the shore safely discovered that Brother Snow was missing. He was finally found under the capsized boat. He was Carried to the beach by his anxious companions who worked valiantly to restore life in him, although the doctor had pronounced him dead. For fifteen minutes he had not breathed. But his brethren still clung to hope and faith. Finally, their prayers and efforts were trewarded. 'To those who saw this miraculous transformation from death to life, it must have been a lasting testimony that it was truly the work of God which Lorenzo Snow had been spared to do. WHEN their unpleasant task with Mr. Gibson was finished, Elders Snow and Benson returned to Utah, leaving Joseph F. Smith to preside over the mission. With the exception of Brother Snow's brief official work in Hawaii, Joseph F. Smith has been the only active Hawaiian missionary who became President of the Church. It has been said that "A singing people is a good people." That is true of the Hawaiians. They are a singing, happy, pleasure-loving people. And their happiness is largely HAWAII AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS in giving joy and happiness to others. A mutual feeling of interest and warm affection is characteristic of all missionaries and their converts. That is the spirit of the gospel. It seems to be particularly true of the Hawaiians and the messengers who brought them word of the everlasting gospel. 'These good people were apparently ready and waiting to receive the glad message. In eight months after the arrival of the first missionaries there were 220 converts; and before George O. Cannon left, three and one half years later, there were 4,000. These figures are all the more astounding when one considers the tremendous handicaps under which the first group labored. They were pioneers, friendless, lacking in experience, ignorant of the language and habits of this foreign BE KR RR KR 169 people, on an uncharted sea, so to speak. Those who followed them had half their battle won by having the way opened to them, friends to greet them on their arrival, and initiate them into their work, converts already made and waiting to greet their new Latter-day Saint friends. In accepting the gospel, the people accepted the missionaries as well. They took them into their homes, waited on them, shared their meager supply of food, often denying themselves their portion to give to their visitors. The popular native "poi" was very distasteful to the missionaries. In My First Mission, George Q. Cannon wrote: I tasted a teaspoonful of poi, but the smell of it and the calabash in which it was contained was so much like that of a book binder's old, sour paste that when I 63 tas? ° THE CITY OF HONOLULU, HAWAII This photograph, taken from Aloha Tower, shows, on the right, the famous "Punch Bowl," where, it is believed, the first Latter-day Saint missionaries went to have prayer and dedicate the land, soon after their arrival December 12, 1850. Q. Cannon received instructions from the Lord, and was told to preach to the George natives of Hawaii. It was here that 170 put it in my mouth I gagged. But in travelling among the people I soon learned that if I did not eat poi I would put them to great inconvenience... And might interfere with my success. I therefore determined to live on their food. And that I might do so, I asked the Lord to make it sweet to me. The next time I tasted it I ate a bowlful. My prayer was answered. I positively liked it. It was sweeter to me than any food I had ever tasted. N order to have a gathering place for the saints, a large tract of land was purchased by the Church. President Young wrote to King Kamehameha explaining the reason for the project: They will go there as religious teachers; but while this in their calling, they will not confine their labors to spiritual matters only. According to the precepts of our religion, the spiritual and temporal are so intimately blended that we view no salvation, or system of salvation, as being complete which does not provide for the welfare and preservation of the body as well as the spirit. For many years the saints labored on the plantations, but the results were somewhat disappointing. 'I'he fact that the missionaries in charge of the project were changed, as their missions ended, after about two years, added to the lack of success. Toward the end of the century, in 1885, the people were disheartened. A meeting was called to consider abandoning the project. President Joseph F. Smith was in the conference. He made a wonderful prophecy. He told the people that they should not despair. He promised them that beauty and fertility would result from their labors if they would be patient and faithful and diligent. To overcome one difficulty, the short-term supervision was abolRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 ished. Brother Samuel E. Woolley was Called as permanent manager of the plantation. 'That proved to be a great advantage. Under his wise leadership and supervision, the prophecy of President Smith was fulfilled. The place has become beautiful and has prospered surprisingly. Besides becoming a financial asset to the Church, it has provided work and a comfortable living for many members. In 1900, on the fiftieth anniversary of the opening of the mission, President George QO. Cannon again visited Hawaii. 'There were some members still living who had known him half a century before, and there were many others who had heard of his remarkable work. He was greeted with wonderful demonstrations of love and respect. In the Hawaiian mission, the auxiliary Organizations are in a favorable condition. The Relief Society, organized in 1875, is sustaining the ideals and standards of the original plan. Women in this endeavor have been as active and efficient as in every other phase of life. The Hawalian sisters are to be commended for their exquisite needlework. 'Their lovely quilts, on which the work is perfect, are especially notable. For these, there is a constant market at excellent prices. Our Hawaiian sisters have adopted American ways in their homes, giving attention to sanitation, modern comfort and convenience. Besides the hundreds of men missionaries, there have been from 1851 to 1941, two hundred twenty-six sisters from the mainland who have gone as missionaries to the islands. Thus is the mighty work of the Lord carried on by his faithful people.