Clean-up and Beautification Program James M. Kirkham Secretary, Church Beautification Committee TVERY ward and branch of the Latter-day Saint Church will be asked to take part this year in a clean-up and beautification program. The plan will include all chapels, buildings, grounds, and any vacant property the Church may own. The program will be so planned that it will encourage all members to beautify their homes and surroundings. A letter has been sent out by the Presiding Bishopric suggesting that the building supervisor in each stake, working under the direction of the stake presidency, will have charge of and direct the campaign in his respective stake. Ward bishoprics and branch presidencies will organize and call to their aid the local priesthood and auxiliary groups to help put over the program, without the expenditure of Church funds. It will be the purpose to thoroughly clean every nook and corner; and clearing of every closet will be part of the plan. Removing every fire hazard from and around our buildings will be emphasized. No extensive landscaping plans will be stressed at this time, but we will be asked to plant lawns and flowers. An appeal will be made for better sanitary conditions to help safeguard the health of our people. This program is not a new idea. Our pioneers, one hundred years ago, encouraged the members then to beautify and make their homes good places in which to live. President Brigham Young said: "Study order and cleanliness—adorn your city and neighborhood—make your home lovely— make it neat, nice, and clean. Set out flowers around the doors." The objective of the campaign will be to have clean places in which to worship and to make our homes better places in which to live. _-... The fulness of the earth is yours.... Yea, and the herb, and the good things which cometh of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards. All things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart.... To strengthen the body and to enliven the soul (D. & C. 59:16-19). Page 17] OF ZION AND THE Ricuts OF THE OMEN oF ALL Nations" Own knitting €re also "ssential. Spi they who bra ost lovely j Were seated of the Junction City, as also Several Bishops, Presided with her usual quiet dignity: |: the Ptincipal Subj eh rs, Proctor, W. The British ME€n in char Y not be critic; : ( we WO noted American women were among more than two thousand delegates, representing fifty-two nations, at the International Congress of Mental Health, held in London last August. They were Anna W. M. Wolf, family counselor, and Mrs. George Van Trump Burgess, vice-president of the Child Study Association of America. Mrs. Burgess commented on the "sense of interdependence of sciences upon each other, and of nations and individual human beings." If only everyone in the world could understand the true importance of that interdependence, surely we would have peace instead of war! Ta meeting in Washington, October 29, called by the American General Federation of Women's Clubs, leaders of national youth organizations and producers of radio and movie programs and publishers of comic strips, discussed radio, television, and movie programs and comic books for youth. It was agreed that the makers should go much further than merely "observing the negative code—no nudity, no glamorizing of alcoholic beverages, no contempt of law, family, or respected institutions, no torture, no detailed methods of youth crimes, no obscene language." A common aim was agreed upon to give youth the best in entertain- <>)