Cakes Decorated and Designed at Home Eva Willes Wangsgaard ECORATING birthday and wedding cakes can be done at home by any woman with a keen desire, a little creative energy, and a fund of imagination. Some cakes that I saw recently, created and finished by Mrs. Alvin Larsen of Logan, Utah, would fire the imagination and stir the desire in any homemaker, especially one with small children. The tools needed are simple and easily procured at the five-and-dime stores or can be made easily at home. Mrs. Larsen makes many of her implements out of ordinary typing paper folded and cut on the diagonal. The resulting triangle is rolled into a funnel for holding the decorating icing. The tip may be snipped in various designs for very pleasing results. The beauty of the cake depends on the patience and the craftsmanship of the creator. Mrs. Larsen creates all her own recipes both for the cakes and for the icings and blends the standard flavors for individuality and variety. Her decorated cakes, both body and decorations, taste as pretty-as they look, and they look prettier than the first bluebird in spring. Naturally, she doesn't want to divulge all her secrets, but she was kind enough to give me a basic recipe for a child's birthday cake and for the icing to glamorize it. These you will find at the end of this article. Page 192 Let me tell you about some birthday cakes she has made, cakes that you may imitate or that will inspire you with ideas of your own. Judy's was a two-layered, butter sponge cake, ten inches in_ diameter. It was enveloped in pale pink icing and sported a border of rose-pink rosebuds and white daisies with silver centers. Pairs of bluebirds rested among the flowers, four to a wreath. Inside the floral border the inscription read, "Happy Birthday, Judith!" In the center, held high on a concealed paper cup, stood a storybook doll, "Cinderella at the Ball," in a deep rose evening gown. We cut into it, and um-m-m, it was so good you could scarcely stop eating! Michael's was a similar cake iced in yellow. Sixteen little merry-goround horses, complete with flowing manes, arched tails, saddles and bridles, galloped around the border. All of these were made of delicious icing. Peppermint sticks held up the paper canopy and the birthday greeting was written in blue icing. Another idea this home artist has conceived is a nursery rhyme cake with such figures as Old King Cole, Little Bo-Peep, Little Boy Blue, etc., decorating the top. MP. Larsen makes the _ roses, birds, and other decorative figures the day before the cake is baked or earlier the same day so CAKES DECORATED AND DESIGNED AT HOME that they will be dry and firm by the time the cake is iced. She builds each little flower on a bottle cap, making one petal at a time. Fully opened roses, orange blossoms, and other flowers made full-faced, are completed with their tiny gold Ben Hains 193 stamens. She always uses a homemade paper tube for forming birds. These figures are attached to the iced cake with icing which holds them as it sets. _ You may think Mrs. Larsen must be a trained expert and that what "MERRY-GO-ROUND CAKE" 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Benny Degn SANDRA LARSEN, LOGAN, UTAH, AND HER FIRST BIRTHDAY CAKE she can do has no relationship to what you can accomplish, but she is just a housewife like you and me who has taught herself every step of the way by the trial and error method, with only a talent for design and a great joy in creation behind her. Many women have these traits and are unaware of them. Why not get the few inexpensive pastry tubes and implements which you can buy at the five-and-dime, cut out a few paper triangles, take these basic recipes, and try your hand at the young fry's birthday cake? You may find not only joy for yourself and your children, but you may branch out, as several women I know have, making cakes for fees and winning prizes at the state fairs.. One caution Mrs. Larsen asked me to give you is this: do keep your colors pastel. A drop or two of coloring in a batch of icing for figures is sufficient. Also, she says that she paints the eyes and beaks of the birds and tints the edges of fancy petals with a toothpick dipped in cake coloring after the figures are dry. Another tip, vegetable shortening, being white, is better to use than butter in icings which are to be tinted. BUTTER SPONGE CAKE eggs, beat one at a time in batter. NN eR cup shortening, butter and vegetable shortening half and half. Cup sugar, cream in shortening, preferably by electric mixer. Egg yolks, add one at a time and beat lightly at slower rate. CAKES DECORATED AND DESIGNED AT HOME 195 2 cups sifted cake flour, 2 tsp. Baking powder, sifted together. " tsp. Salt. 1 cup milk. Add alternately sifted dry ingredients and milk, beginning with flour and ending with flour. Beat slowly three minutes. Add flavoring, banana, tropical fruit, vanilla, or your own blend of any of these. Pour into well-greased 10-inch cake pans, 1-inch deep, lined with greased waxed paper. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) for 20 minutes or until firm. ICING 1 lb. Powdered sugar canned milk, sufficient to make a creamy consistency. Add a little at a time while beating. 1 heaping tbsp. Vegetable shortening Beat at a slow rate for three minutes. Add a few grains of salt and flavor, add coloring if desired. For figures and flowers, make the above recipe, or a portion of it, very stiff with more powdered sugar and beat smooth. A Birthdays aed Wedding oF pesccmscmias Remember the Women of Your Family with a Subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Use this Coupon Enclosed please find $1.50 for which please send the Relief Society Magazine for one year, begimmimg with o. Oo ccc cee cece cece cee ceneneneeneeenececeneeeeeanaeereneeenenned ent cnnee-esamneserronnsereseenceeeeanensssenesereencecseseeeces Docenenennn(Name) a ca sceaceucacceveveesnsevoncoeernneresrens (Street and number) aE Le seennscevensenzansensnscnvenssnscnsonsencensserntt(City and State) (Ward or Branch) Owen ever ccccnscencnces cess ecacss essen censews cesses sesecenccen cons eesensssceccsesuacoooserassasconssasensanesensassseasee enw eee nn cen nen ccs nc enssce sarees eee es cme ee cneeeer cess nsenes sen nccccasowce cs naeses sacesaencescenevessanasecesessonnessee Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to Support and care for, Courageously, she takes inventory of her resources—a home, poorly furnished and not paid for, and $1.19 in cash. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans