[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Report]
A definite, positive effort must be made to counteract this growing tendency of wanting something for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
nothing, of doing only enough to get by. Think of the mothers, to say nothing of the youth of the next generation, depending on our success in maintaining a high standard of integrity.
SOCIAL ETHICS
General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
The term social must be understood in its first meaning?companionship or mutual relationships with others of one's kind; group life in other words. Ethics is the science which deals with conduct in so far as it is considered right or wrong, good or bad. In group life there must be organization and effort. This subject, naturally, has a great appeal for Relief Society as it emphasizes the ideal of the organization, the animating spirit of our Church and the spirit of sisterhood, to be willing to serve each other and share burdens and privileges, and to develop the spirit of self-help so vital to success in life.
We stand today facing one of the great crises of the world. We need clear thinking, great courage, firm faith to guide us. Our heritage is one of traditions which have been developed through a study of the past.
We must teach them to realize that liberty is a great ethical ideal, and cannot exist without justice, and the highest aim of justice is the protection of liberty, which always must depend upon self-discipline and self-control.
As we regard the world today, deep gratitude fills our hearts for this land of "choice above all other lands," where we live under the finest pronouncement of social ethics ever to be given of a government, guaranteed under the Constitution of the United States. During the current year we have witnessed great epic in history, Lewis and Clark, and William Clark, that daring woman Sacajawea, have told the heart and soul of America's story.

Of all the civilizing agencies of the human family, the Bible is therefore the greatest treasure house of social ethics. Our art, literature and music, laws and government, our family and
354
community life, the mold of our civilization and all that it implies are shaped by this greatest contribution from the ancient to the modern world.
From beginning to end it is full of priceless stories and examples of all our highest ideals. We know that the New Testament is the most ethical book ever given to the world. It is the source of the only perfect social order.
Every miracle performed, every parable uttered is a perfect example of applied social ethics.
True neighborliness and brotherhood were the cornerstones of Christ's teaching.
This is one way of expressing the great value of every human personality which is so precious in the sight of our Father in Heaven. "If you love me, feed my sheep." Is this after all not the source of all good manners?the very flower of our civilization?
What we need is more application of the principles in our daily life.
