[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Service And Selling]

SERVICE AND SELLING
By Vida Fox Clawson
A good magazine representative must first have the ambition to place the Magazine in the home of every Latter-day Saint. She must think about it. Why should it go into the home of every Latter-day Saint? In the first place, the very fact that it is there testifies that the home is a home of culture and the mother discriminating in her taste. The fact that it is there increases the faith of the children. Even if they don't read it, it is good for them to have the Magazine in the home.
This is a day when the good and the bad are so closely intertwined that it is difficult to choose the right. For example, we listen to a glorious radio rendition of Aida or some grand opera, and we are uplifted, then we realize that the sponsors are perhaps cigarette advertisers. This advertising is very subtle but very effective. Few of us realize the effect of it. After months of such advertising, we become used to the thing which at first shocks us. We say, "Well, I guess it's all right. I guess it isn't as harmful as we thought it was." We grow less and less rebellious.
The same thing happens to the boy who learns to admire the editor of a magazine through reading his editorials, and then some day perhaps he sees a picture of this man with a cigarette in his hand. The boy, if young and brought up according to Mormon ideals, is shocked. But he begins this process of thinking, "Well, I guess it's not so bad after all," and finally gets to the point where he thinks it is not so wrong to smoke.
The more magazines advertising tobacco, liquor and things of that kind which we have in our homes the more we need the Relief Society Magazine as a supporting anchor, for it comes to us absolutely unpolluted, not only in its articles but in its advertising.
It is difficult these days to choose the right from the wrong. Right now you and I would have no definite convictions about this life and the life to come if we didn't feel that we are being led by divine leadership, inspired leadership. Those who have the publication of this Magazine in charge are inspired women. How grateful we should be to have this Magazine come into our homes and how eager we should be to carry the news to others.
A good representative should feel it just as much a mission to sell the Magazine and place it in every Latter-day Saint home as any missionary who goes out into the field.
Let us take a peek into some of the Magazines. Suppose there is a boy who is in his early teens and is just a little bit wayward. His companions are not always what his mother wants them to be. He picks up the Magazine and sees this one little sentence, "No man can be provident of his time who is not prudent in the choice of his company." This makes an impression upon the mind of that boy and he becomes more careful in the selection of his companions. If you had been the representative to place the Magazine in that home, don't you think you would have rendered a real service?
Suppose you have a neighbor who for some reason cannot make ends meet, nevertheless she buys the Relief Society Magazine, and a few months later when she meets you, she says, "You know when I bought that Magazine, I made a real investment. In the September number there was an unusually easy and good recipe for whole wheat bread. I never had baked before. It was so delicious and the family liked it so well that I just formed the habit of making my own bread. It's just unbelievable, but that little Magazine has paid for itself over and over again with just that one recipe." Wouldn't you be thrilled?
Now suppose that some one, as I did, came across the title, "Home Scriptural Reading," and thought, "We don't do enough of that in our home, but we are going to gather around the fireside every day and read the scriptures." Wouldn't you be happy if you had been the woman fortunate enough to place the Magazine in that home?
"By their fruits ye shall know them." This is just as true of magazines as it is of persons. What kind of women read the Relief Society Magazines? They are the salt of the earth. Reading the Relief Society Magazine helps every person to form a better life.
"By their fruits ye shall know them." What kind of women are they who publish the Relief Society Magazine? They are the salt of the earth. What a privilege it is for you and for me to come in contact with such women, and I sometimes think that they let us look into their souls much more distinctly through their writing than through any other source. In the January issue of this year two women whom I have known and loved for a long time have permitted me to see both of them better?Mary Connelly Kimball, the Editor of the Magazine for a long time, and Sister Talmage, a constant reader and an occasional contributor. These two women are the type of women whom we contact through the Magazine. It is a great blessing.
God bless the women who gather together and bind the lessons, the editorials, the stories, the poems, month after month, into a magazine worthy of our best selling efforts.