[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference
Keynotes To Success]

KEYNOTES TO SUCCESS
By Marcia K. Howells
One's best effort produces happiness, and usually makes for success. One Magazine agent traveled seventy-five miles in one day to visit three families and found them eager for the Magazine. Another took fruit and vegetables from those who could not pay cash. She also reported an exchange of work, such as washing or cleaning, for subscriptions.
Realizing the privilege of making friends and influencing other lives overcomes obstacles. "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of Heaven."
Quoting from Magazine agents:
"You have to work enthusiastically, efficiently, and unselfishly."
"This year I obtained three subscriptions that I have been working on for six years. It takes real perseverance and lots of walking. I am willing to go a long distance and spend a lot of time to get one subscription. I love the work."
"I've visited returned missionaries; in every case they were glad to send the Magazine to friends in the mission field."
From Alaska: "I received the sample copies of the Magazine. I loaned them and they did the work. I didn't care to be the only one in 'Uncle Sam's Attic' enjoying our wonderful Magazine."
One of the missions reports: "I have in mind a conference where some of the members have never had the opportunity of going to school and the Relief Society Magazine has been a God-send to them. They have learned to do much of their reading from it."
In the Australian Mission, where 337? per cent was obtained: "I wrote letters to members 1300 miles south and 1800 miles north." This representative reported one fourteen-year-old girl as subscribing for two aged people; also a fifteen-year-old investigator who purchased the Magazine for the Sidney Library in addition to her own subscription.
The Magazine has so many uses. It radiates the spirit of Relief Society and the spirit of the Gospel. Read the Magazine for its stimulating effect as well as for information and inspiration.