[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: President Louise Y. Robison]

President Louise Y. Robison MEETING with the devoted leaders of Relief Society is a continued source of joy and inspiration. REFERRING to the ruling on donations received by Visiting Teachers, we feel more strongly than ever that all donations collected by Visiting Teachers belong in the Charity Fund. If members of Relief Society or others wish to contribute to the General Fund, we shall be most grateful to them if they will give or send such contributions to the President or Secretary of the Relief Society. WE would like to emphasize the request that officers refrain from using Relief Society for advertising purposes. The fine project for better methods of laundering clothes brought many offers from soap manufacturers for demonstration in Relief Society. We are quite opposed to having any commercial article featured in our meetings. WE have received many compliments from the General Authorities of the Church, morticians, and from Relief Society Presidents on our suggestion that funeral flowers remain undisturbed until after the mourners have gone from the building. We were advised to take this action by members of the General Authorities. IN a few of our stakes, a charge is made for luncheon served on Work and Business day. We hope you will find some other way of obtaining finances. Many of our sisters would be happy to pay for their luncheon, but in each ward there are fine, faithful members who cannot afford this expense and who will not feel comfortable in attending these meetings. "THERE are occasionally Ward Presidents who do not work in harmony with their Stake President. They do not attend Union meetings and feel that they need no advice in the conduct of the Relief Society work. This is a serious condition. There must be complete harmony between stake and ward officers or the work of Relief Society suffers. Before any woman accepts an office in any department of Relief Society she should know what the requirements are and be willing to live up to them. Unless ward officers give loyal support to stake officers, they cannot expect loyalty from their own group. Remember always that the spirit of the Lord is with us only when there is harmony and a desire to cooperate for the good of the whole group. WE have had a wonderful response to the hurried request sent from our office a week ago for 

  a report on what the Relief Society had done for Church Security, The