[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 39 | Category: Article | Title: Counselor Kate M. Barker]

Counselor Kate M. Barker
Today when there is so much revolt against old orders, many of the standards which we thought were fixed and stable are being lowered. Some youth are asking, "Can one succeed in a business way, and be honest?" Someone must carry these banners forward.
There are certain standards of living which are basic to which we must adhere. The future depends on the willingness of today's leadership to carry these banners, and to awaken and arouse youth. It is not resources we lack, either material or human. It is the will to be and to lead. Surely our Father in Heaven has the right to expect that the members of His Church will assume this leadership. "For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required."
In our country we have mass civilization, schools, libraries, science in service for all, and we are now talking of security for all. No amount of emphasis upon education, opportunity or security can obscure the basic necessity of the fundamental qualities of honesty, loyalty, industry, cooperation, absolute integrity of mind and heart. Culture is only a veneer unless there is this integrity of heart. This must be built in the homes.
But most people are spiritually lazy. It is easy to send a child to school to learn history, etc., but it takes time to watch the child in his play and all the acts of everyday life to see that he plays fair, that he is loyal to what he knows is right, that he is learning to cooperate, to get down to hard work and to do his work thoroughly. The same characteristics that are developed in little things will carry over to the bigger things of life.
We must build such a sensitiveness to truth and beauty that anything that is false or vulgar is repulsive. This is our only safety. We want our boys and girls to fulfill fine missions. These must be planned for. The Gospel is truth and beauty, and unless a person is fundamentally honest and clean he will not appreciate the real beauty of the Gospel. We cannot have moral integrity without mental honesty.
We must learn to think; we must not pick up an opinion here and a carelessly thrown scrap of information there, or fill our minds with ready-made statements and imagine we know how to think. The world needs straight and honest thinking.

There is no doubt that the world is progressing in social thinking?relief for the needy, make-work for the unemployed, old age assistance. But this type of civilization calls for a higher type of individual?higher in those fundamental qualities of honesty, industry and cooperation. These projects are for those who need. Any attempt on the part of parents and grandparents to evade the law by taking what is not absolutely needed, by not giving an honest day's work, by concealing their property or turning it over to children, is dishonesty. It cannot be concealed from the children and grandchildren.
Standards are not lowered suddenly. A certain mental attitude is developed in a few, and unless counteracted by the active influence of the majority, develops slowly into a general lowering of standards, a generalized mode of thinking.