[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Donna D. Sorensen]

Donna D. Sorensen FROM the beginning of our organization sewing for the needy has been, and probably ever will be, the most important obligation of the Work and Business department. This activity should never be neglected. However, in response to repeated demands which have come from the stakes for additional help in planning for this day the General Board will print in the July Magazine nine topics for discussion for the coming year on the "Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition." Under each of these topics will be given the names of various pamphlets and addresses where these may be obtained. No lessons will be written and the way the stakes and wards utilize this material in the Magazine will be largely left to them. However, the General Board suggests:
1. That the use of this material be optional in the wards and may be used in connection with the traditional activities of the day.
2. That this matter of nutrition is worthy of serious consideration by the wards of the Church as it is timely and worth while.
3. That if any additional material or any other subject be selected by the wards it must be presented by the ward Work and Business leader to the stake for its approval and at any event any subject selected must be on some phase of homemaking. Book reviews or any program on any subject other than home making are out of order on Work and Business day.
4. That the stake Work and Business leader will be responsible for obtaining the pamphlets for her various wards and obtain them early enough to distribute at the Union meeting preceding the day they will be utilized.
5. That if this material on nutrition is used in the wards that the treatment of it be considered in an informal manner with the idea of having an interchange of the thoughts and opinions of all the women present, rather than presenting the material as a formal lesson.
6. That in wards where this material is considered the ward counselor in charge of Work and Business and the ward Work and Business leader consult, and conjointly choose a woman to lead in this informal discussion on Work and Business day. A different woman will be chosen to lead the discussion each month, thus distributing the responsibility and bringing more women into activity. We suggest that each of these women chosen be asked to attend the Union meeting where the pamphlets on her subject for discussion will be distributed.
7. That if the wards in a stake choose to discuss this subject of nutrition the stake leader of Work and Business give it some consideration at Union meeting and the time and emphasis be left to the discretion of the stake leader.
PLANNING FOR SOCIABILITY
Nellie O. Parker
Sociability is an important gateway to an abundant life. The more we use this gate and extend our friendly contacts the more we enlarge our world.
"The world stands out on either side No wider than the heart is wide."
Friendship is one of the sweetest things in the world. The intellectual and spiritual things we share with others make us richer. The more we give away of this spiritual wealth the richer we are.
Social recreation of any type that helps us enjoy fellowship with one another and gives an opportunity for growth, opportunity to be and become one's self, and to have joy in living is very desirable. It is fundamental to our nature to crave companionship. We get pleasure from doing things together. Even hard work is enjoyable when done in a group?for example, a ward dinner or community fruit canning. We experience recreation of spirit in singing and playing together, and when we share food with one another we obtain a completeness of sociability that nothing else seems to give.
We should aim to make our Relief Society contacts as friendly as possible. Let us think about what others are interested in and try to make them happy. This is a vital element of true etiquette. Assign certain members to welcome everyone who comes to meeting. Strangers and visitors should be given special attention and introduced at least to those by whom they are seated. Let someone look after their comfort and see that they enjoy themselves.
We recommend that Work and Business day be made a happy social day, a sewing circle linked to a party spirit with an atmosphere of informality, insuring free and easy discussion and a feeling of friendly cooperation. Secure constructive conversation by directing it in proper channels to correlate with the project in hand. See that everyone feels she is a vital part of the organization. Plan the social hour so that everyone takes her turn in helping when luncheon or refreshments are served. Give thought to planning the social hour; draw on your originality; vary your menus; have little surprises and glorify the common things, but keep them simple and within the reach of the frugal purse. Keep abreast of the times.
If members, especially leaders, will radiate their enthusiasm and give their best thought to Relief Society, planning ahead and looking forward to it as one of the big things of their lives, they will stimulate interest and enthusiasm in others. Everyone will want Relief Society; it will gain in prestige. Those who work in the organization love it enthusiastically. Our problem is to give everyone something to do. The good leader will divide work, getting as many to participate as possible. Make an important occasion of the installation of new members, and also the welcoming back of inactive ones into active service again. Let someone sponsor the prospective member and make a little talk in her behalf, telling of her interests, talents and achievements. During the social hour the new members can be the honored guests. Everyone should meet them and extend a friendly hand in welcoming them into the Society.
For festive days plan decorations that are typically "our own." We have great ideals and traditions, we have only to work out our own symbols. Let us encourage originality and artistic talent. Let us make Relief Society very alluring and desirable, remembering that those who serve Relief Society most, love it best.
MAGAZINE DEPARTMENT
Belle S. Spafford, Chairman