[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide | Title: WORK AND BUSINESS]

WORK AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT Lalene H. Hart, Chairman RESULT OF WORK AND BUSINESS PROJECT By Lalene H. Hart WHEN something has been accomplished everyone is ready to declare it was easy, but before it is begun they say it is impossible.
This was somewhat the feeling many of our Relief Society women had when our Work and Business Project was launched Jast April. All the difficulties of such an enterprise were seen at once, yet, a thing well begun is half done, and moreover, the surmounting of: the first barrier gives courage and strength for those following.
This proved to be the case with our project. In order to get definite and tangible information as to the contribution our organization is making in its legitimate field of economics and family relationship we asked that a survey be made with two objectives in mind, first, to supply factual data to verify or challenge general statements about present day family life; second, to help women to understand and evaluate their own work and problems. The following is a brief summary of that survey: No. Of stakes reporting, 99; No. Of stakes participating in project, 94; No. Of stakes reporting more than 50 per cent of membership participating, 35; No. Of wards reporting, 849; No. Of wards participating, 720; No. Of women making bread, 84 per cent, 25,459; No. Of women doing sewing, 75 per cent, 24,485; No. Of women doing launering, 92 per cent, 28,832; No. Of women carrying on project in bread making, 64 per cent, 5,652; No. Of women carrying on project in sewing, 61 per cent, 4,342; No. Of women carrying on project in laundering, 76 per cent, 5,836. The figures show that more women do their own laundering than other activities. Only 50 per cent of women were interested in the project at first, but as it progressed more became active.
Many liked the discussions and the actual work, but did not want to keep records or file reports. Demonstrations, lectures, discussions, exhibits, contests, debates, visits to flour mills and laundries were some of the methods used to put over the project. To the question of what definite value the project was such answers as these were given: It has created an interest in women's problems, and a desire to do more efficient, scientific and professional work.
More wholesome and better bread is being made and used than ever before. Non-members have become interested with the result that they want to know more about Relief Society work. All the women participating agree that it is more economical and satisfying to create and do things at home.
While our objectives have not been fully realized, the project has been very much worth while, and is more far reaching than we know.
Since many women feel they are just home makers and these activities too commonplace to be studied, Work and Business leaders have a big opportunity to help them to be the very best home makers.
This department is comparable in its cultural value to the other prescribed courses, and requires thorough preparation in making it one of the best departments in the Relief Society. It can be done! 
  SUGGESTIONS FOR WORK AND BUSINESS FOR 1938-39 By