[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Presiding Bishopric]
Presiding Bishopric asked us to get the report for the First Presidency to use at Conference.
Within a week, ninety-nine stakes and missions had reported.
Although the Southern States Mission is so far away our Mission Mother, Sister Clayson, had her report in the office on time. N making the survey for the clothing requirements of our people Relief Society has discovered some families in urgent need at the present time. In a few cases the bishops have requested the Relief Society to supply those needs from their funds.
Evidently these bishops are new in the work, as Relief Society has not now, nor ever has had, sufficient funds to care for rent, light, food and clothing. Relief Society offers service. Our funds are to be used in cases of emergency and to supplement the work of the bishop. HERE are some very fine organizations outside of our Relief Society who are working for the benefit of humanity. We are eager to have our Societies cooperate in spreading useful information but we are opposed to having regular Relief Society class work interfered with or having dues to any other organization collected in our meetings. To'the extent that individual members can subscribe to these helpful movements we are in hearty accord, but this is entirely outside of the Relief Society. WE advise Relief Societies to cooperate with the Agricultural Colleges, with the county agents and demonstrators in any state in which they reside.
These trained people have valuable information on the needs of the body and the kinds of 326 food which supply those needs.
Deficiency diseases, which result from improper diet, are as great a menace as the contagious diseases. To understand the chemical requirements of the body and to know the foods which supply those needs is of great importance to mothers. WE are making a change in the Relief Society Magazine Honor Roll awards.
Instead of all Relief Societies competing on the same basis, there will be three groups. One group will include all wards and branches with membership up to 49 inclusive. One group will be those Societies whose membership is from 50 to 99 inclusive, and a third group will include those with a membership of 100 or over. We feel this is more just.
Presidents will please appoint a member of the Board to be responsible for the activities of ward Magazine Agents. We have had heartbreaking experiences when some of the ward Agents, who have worked RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE very hard to get subscriptions, have sent their reports to the stakes and the stakes have failed to get the information to headquarters in time for the credits to be awarded. E acknowledge with deep appreciation the very interesting publications which come to us from the missions. One recently reached us from Sister Nibley of the Northwestern States Mission with some very fine reports. The Northern States Mission sends them to us frequently.
They are most helpful. Sister May Green Hinckley of the Northern States Mission gave us the very fine idea of placing useful Relief Society information on the back of our membership cards. We shall adopt this suggestion when we print other cards. May the Lord bless you with vision to see the needs, and health to carry forward the work in a manner pleasing and acceptable to yourselves and to our Heavenly Father. ANNOUNCEMENT By President Louise Y. Robison THE Government has appointed Miss Daisy Duncombe to make a survey of the hard of hearing who are living in Utah. If you know any persons who are hard of hearing, please advise them to communicate with Miss Duncombe, 1259
Sherman Avenue, Salt Lake City, giving information relative to age, sex, and education. ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary IT is always a rare opportunity to present a very brief summary of the Annual Report of the Relief Society and to express the deep appreciation the general office feels for the splendid cooperation of the Stakes and Missions. The reports this year were more perfect than ever before. We are grateful to our fine secretaries. The following is a brief annual statement for the year 1937. This includes Missions, Stake Boards and Ward organizations.  ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1937 (Missions, Stake Boards and Ward Organizations) Total Balance on Hand, January 1, 1937........$ 205,042.91
Total Receipts During 1937.....323,871.20
Total Balance on Hand and Receipts.......... 528,914.11
Total Balance, December 31, 1937......... 223,546.65
Total Assets...... 1,019,328.36
Ward Conferences Held 1,499
Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers............. 991,623
Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound................... Membership in 1936, 73,062; in 1937, 75,064; an increase of 2,002. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers.............16,026
Visiting Teachers..........25,486
Other Members........33,552
Average attendance in 1936, 31,784; in 1937, 31,203; a decrease of 581. Paid, tot Caer Purposes in 1936, $66,189.48; in 1937, $67,632.09; an increase of MORMON HANDICRAFT Counselor Kate M. Barker 

  FROM CORNER STONE TO KEYSTONE By Rae B. Barker I. DUES. The dues for Mormon Handicraft are one dollar a year. The membership year will be the same as the membership in Relief Society?January to January. II. STANDARD OF WORK. On the whole the work has been excellent, but some which was sent in could not be accepted.
Work must be examined by the stake Work and Business leader before being sent to the shop.
When the work has once been accepted by her, other articles of the same kind may be sent without her accepting then, but any new type of article must be taken to her for approval. III. ORIGINAL WORK. The articles which sell best are the ones with some distinctive feature and originality, providing they are artistic and well made.
Stamped articles, such as anyone can buy at the department stores, do not sell well. IV. PATENTs. The material must be good and the handwork fine No article will be accepted which is a copy of articles already in the shop. I. DUES. The dues for Mormon . PRICING. The articles should be priced by the person sending?the price that she wishes for the article. The shop will then add 25% to her price for overhead. No handwork will bring wages such as is paid by the hour for work outside the home.
This is an opportunity for women to stay in the home and supplement the family income. Our motto is: ?A little profit in a little time not wasted.? VI. CONTROLLING THE SUPPLY.
There are now about three hundred and seventy-five women participating.
Some means must be taken to control the supply.
