[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: SISTER MERCY R. THOMPSON. | Author: Unknown]

SISTER MERCY R. THOMPSON.

	On the fifteenth of June, 1893, Sister
Mercy Rachel Thompson completed her
eighty-sixth year. A few special friends
called on her, and were well repaid for so
doing, by listening to recitals of events
which transpired in the days of the Prophet
Joseph and his brother Hyrum. With
both of those noble men of God, Sister
Thompson was personally and intimately
associated for a number of years, being
sister-in-law to Hyrum. And in her
memory and journal are stored many in-
teresting and valuable things, connected
with the Church and its leaders in those
early times, which it is not only pleasur-
able, but profitable as well, for younger
people to hear rehearsed. Indeed, there is
no better way, (so I thought while being
entertained at Sister Mercy’s) for younger
members of the Church to pass away an
hour or two occasionally, than in the com-
pany of those who have had long experience
in the service of the Lord and the com-
panionship of His most faithful and en-
lightened servants. To listen to accounts
of scenes and circumstances which oc-
curred in the life of the Prophet, from the
lips of one who participated in them,
makes a person feel better acquainted with
Joseph himself, than reading his written
history can do. However detailed the writ-
ten account may be, queries will often arise
in the mind of the careful reader, which
the finished book cannot answer, but the
colloquial companion may.
	With no less competent a listener than
Sister Helen Mar Whitney to furnish in-
telligent and important questions coupled
with items from her own store of information,
although but a short visit was made to our
venerable friend and her genial daughter,
yet,
	Bright were the blossoms shaken,
	For our gleaning in that fair bower;
	And ever will sweet thoughts’ waken,
	With memories of that hour.

	Birthday remembrances were brought,
or sent to Sister Mercy, strictly in keeping
with the beautiful month in which she
was born; being principally, fair floral of-
ferings, sweet emblems of the love and fel-
lowship of sincere friends.
	Among the pleasant and instructive
things we heard from Sister Mercy’s lips,
was a simple narration of a circumstance in
her own private experience, of late date.
	For some years past, Sister Thompson
has been unable to walk about and render
assistance in the Relief Society, and other
positions, in which she formerly worked
faithfully and efficiently. This has at
times, been a severe trial to her, and only
a short time ago, she was feeling sorrowful
over it, when she remembered that, al-
though it was late in the day, she had
neglected to read her “Daily Text,” which
is usually read in the morning. Taking
the little text book which she always keeps

[Column 2]
handy by her, and which contains a text
for every day in the year, she was ex- 
ceedingly pleased, and her faith in God's
care over her was refreshed when she
found the text for that day was singularly
appropriate to her own needs. She read,
“For if there be first a willing mind, it is
accepted according to that a man hath, and
not according to that he hath not,” 2nd Cor.
VIII.—12.
	“To thee it speaks, who worn with pain,
	Still long’st to use the fettered limb,
	And do thy Master’s work again;
	’Tis well—the heart is all to Him,
	Not what was done in moments flown,
	But what the sufferer longed to do,
	in many an hour depress'd, alone,
	When spirits failed, and means were few,”

	These lines may meet the eyes and
strengthen the hearts of others, whose con-
ditions are similar to those of Sister Thomp-
son; with this hope are they here repro-
duced.
	A pleasing repast was spread, and with
suitable chat, partaken of by the hostess
and her friends.
	With heart-felt and mutual blessings,
the little company dispersed early in the
evening, every one wishing for Sister
Mercy, many, many happy returns of the
day.
							LULA.


