BISHOP WHITNEY’S POEMS.

	A volume of poems fresh from the press is a
fitting tribute to the New Year, and the friends
and admirers of Bishop Whitney's literary work,
who have so long appreciated both prose and
poetry from his gifted pen, will welcome this new
book joyfully.  To those unacquainted with his
name and fame as an author, it will be some-
thing more than a genuine surprise--a veritable
feast of poetry and song. 
	The reading public have been anxiously wait-
ing the publication of the book, ever since the
local papers announced that the work was in the
hands of the publishers.  It has been looked for-


[Column 1]

ward to as a suitable holiday gift and such in-
deed it is. There is little need to speak of its
excellence, the book speaks for itself and the
Christmas Herald has left little for others to say;
however as this little paper published his first
efforts in the "long ago" it is eminently proper to
make some comment upon his advancement up
the rugged hill of progress, for it is beset with
thorns and briers, howbeit the young Bishop may
have gathered some of the choicest flowers, that
have shed a sweet fragrance in the hearts and
homes of others as he has strewn his flowers
of poesy from time to time freely in the pathway
of weary and worn toilers plodding onward in
this workaday world.
	Bishop Whitney's style is lofty, and char-
acterized particularly by a purity of tone notice
able is all he has written. His best pieces are of
a spiritual and exalted type and some of them
might be termed grandly majestic, for instance,
"The Ancient of the Mount" and "Immanuel—A
Christmas Idyl," and some others. He has also
written in a tender and pathetic style, as his
"Stanzas for Music" plainly indicate for they ap-
peal directly to the heart and affections, and are
suitable for singing in the soft evening twilight.
	His poems of comfort and sweet consolation to
the bereaved are full of tenderness and in this
particular gift of alleviating sorrow with his in-
tense sympathy he seems peculiarly to excel.
His last poem of this kind "Julia," is given in full
in this issue, and is an exquisite tribute to the
memory of one of his intimate friends.
	If the writer were asked to select passages
from the Bishop's best writings she would scarcely
know where to begin, having watched his literary
work carefully all the way along, therefore it
would be hard to choose from among such a rich
garden of variegated blossoms; and perchance
the selection might be one that would seem the
lowliest flower of all.
	We make one quotation from the poem entitled
"A Silent Sorrow."

	"There is a grief that chokes expression,
		Sad eyes whence tears may never fall;
	God pity him whose grief flows inward,
		For this the greatest grief of all."

	And again from "A Monody."—

	"In the springtime and spring of her life was she taken,
		When the pitying tears of young April were shed
	O'er the slumbering germlets of May, to awaken
	The sentinel flowers to vigil the dead."

	And the loveliest blossom the e'er fell from Eden,
		The fairest, most fragrant in purity's wreath,
	When the spring-heralds welcomed the life-giving season,
		Was slain by the frosts of the winter of death."

	Among the very best of the author's poems is
the one with which he closes his book, "Thought's
Martyrdom." It expresses the sensitive nature of
the poet and the writer as clearly as is possible
in words, the rapture, the ecstacy, the agony
and torture through which one passes who is
gifted with inspiration from the divine muse. If
time and space would permit we could go on
giving extracts and impressions of his poetical
writings in prose and poetry, for his prose is
poetry, as well as his rhythm; but suffice to say
his book contains many precious gems and,
 treasures, genuine pearls dived deep for down in
the sea of thought, and also bright fancies caught
on the golden thread of poetic enchantment:
truths clear cut as diamonds and well polished,
and altogether the contents are elevating and in
spirational in their tendency.
	The book is to be sold only by subscription,
Solomon F. Kimball having the agency, the prices
range from $1.50, to $2.00 and $2.75, according to
the binding. The paper is of a superior quality
and the covers are handsome especially that of
the highest priced. It is the most elegant book

[Column 2]

of poems in appearance that has been issued in
Utah. The book was published at the office of
the Juvenile Instructor.


