merry Christmas.
	Knock, knock, at the hall door indicated
that the visitors were coming to partake of
the hospitality of the good old folks at the
mansion.  While peals of laughter were heard
in the hall as each visitor entered the parlor.
There hung Tom in effigy in the tree look-
ing so natural that the girls thought it was
really himself up there.  He had placed the
tree in a nook and stood the figure face out,
standing tall as life, he was the first up and
hid to see what effect it would have on the
girls when they went in.  He had not long
to wait as they were the next up to see what
presents were there for them.  Lucia and
Hessie made such a racket with their laughter
and exclaiming “there’s Tom in the tree,”
their noise brought the old folks.  They
went around to shake him and saw his bit of
fun, pa and ma were quite delighted with the
surprise.  Tom chuckled at his success.  Mrs.
Grover stepped into her sitting room and
placed her things of industry on the tree.
They all saw their presents and were delighted
Tom came out of his hiding place and found
his socks, when he was pleased he made rhymes
and expressed himself. “Ar’n’t they nice.”
		The old ones are the worse for wear
		And so I've got another pair.
	They left the tree as it was found, Mamie
the cook came in for her share of presents
and fun, and the dog Rover got a silver
collar a present from Tom.  The bride looked
lovely in her white satin dress, white slippers
and a white rose in her curls; her dress was
made plain, and she looked like the nymph
of the woods.  The groom looked all smiles
and happiness itself.
	When the ceremony was performed, and
now kiss your wife, she looked into his face
and with a smile said “my dear Fred I have
now got my Christmas wish I wished for you:
at this moment a gentle timid knock was
heard at the door, and Tom led in from the
cold without a waif, a poor boy who said “I
am hungry give me a piece of bread, I have
no home.” The tender-hearted Lucia took the
boy’s hand and led him to her pa “please take
him for your adopted son, this is my
Christmas wish, sister’s and mine have
both come to pass."
					ANNIE M. P.
Nov. 25th, 1889.


[Column 1]
ONCE A YEAR OR A CHRISTMAS
WISH.
	“My Dear Sister, Christmas only comes
once a year and it is only two weeks that we
have to get ready, yes, Lucia and all the good
things have to be cooked up yet.”
	“Here comes Mamie the cook we will
tell her just what we want and would

[Column 2]
like her to get. It will take from now to
Christmas to cook it all. I will tell her
what to do. Ma wont care.” “No, Hessie I am
the oldest and this is my right. But we will
leave it to the cook which of us shall order
the dinner.” Mamie hears the girls rattling
away about the Christmas dinner. “I am going
to settle this myself,” the cook said,  as
she stept into the kitchen, where the girls
were often found busy with domestic affairs.
	“Now girls I will order: What shall it be?
turkey, a fat goose, chickens and a roast.”
	“Lucia may make the ginger cake, a loaf of
corn bread, squash pies and an English pud-
ding. Hessie the curly head shall look over
the fruit for the mince pies, pare the apples
and potatoes, seed the raisins for the pudding
and arrange the flower vases for the table. I
will bake the pork and beans.”
	“And make the Christmas cake with cream?”
The girls clapt their hands with glee and said
they would abide Mamie’s decision.
	Pa and ma were aged people and these two
sisters were ever ready to assist when needed.
They had plenty and were not too proud to
work in the kitchen.
	They were educated and talented. Lucia
the eldest was very graceful in form and man-
ners and different in complexion from the
younger sister, Hessie; she had deep blue eyes,
long eye lashes, rosy cheeks, light hair that
curled in ringlets around a forehead white
and fair, lips that parted with a smile that
brought a dimple in each cheek, a rounded
form and not as tall as her sister, her voice
was like the nightingale full of music and
glee.
	No one could feel sad when they heard her
cheery voice ringing through the old mansion
in merry tones she gladdened the hearts of the
household that numbered but six. There was
no son, the only children were the two girls.
The eldest of the two was more sedate, her
eyes were dark brown and dreamy, her hair
was almost the same color of a glossy tint and
luxuriant, mild and thoughtful in temperament
she had a care for every one’s comfort and
happiness. It was her greatest delight to
make others happy and would forgo her own
to bestow it upon others whom she loved
dearly. Her parents were the first objects for
her to please, obey and make happy, she
studied their every want, she realized they
were in advanced age, she sought to spare
them a care of anxiety, and was ever ready
to lend a helping hand to each of her parents.
They loved and doted on their daughters,
and looked upon them as jewels of God's
choicest gifts, they knew no difference in their
goodness. The household looked up to Luce
as she was called when things were to be
looked after, she could answer to all their
wants as she knew where every thing about
the house was. She had great devotion for
her sister Hess and would watch over her
with the greatest solicitude, a mother could
not express more anxiety than she. These
two sisters could not be parted they would
always be seen together with the dog Rover
following, they would take their strolls at twi-
light arm in arm and every little shrub would
have an interest for them as they gathered
them up to decorate their home. The ever-
green, hemlock and pine which grew in great
abundance, they gathered to make home
bright and cheerful. They were taking their

[Column 3]
usual walk one afternoon discussing the Christ-
mas tree and dinner thus.
	“Dear Hess, we will hang the tree with
garlands, we will take the hemlock, pine and
evergreens and weave them into wreaths and
twine them around the tree intermix them
with the house flowers, I think we can spare
some. We can make artificials also and sur-
prise pa and ma will this not be a grand idea?”
Hessie drank in all that her sister said and
gathered up all that her arms would hold.
“Dear sister Lucia how I wish we had a
brother he would help us now would he not?
and then Christmas would go off so much
more pleasant; then if he was a jolly brother
he would come flying in with some nice present
on Christmas morning for us all, and Oh, how
well we would enjoy the dinner, I know it
would make pa and ma more happy to have
a son, he could help pa so much, we are girls
and can’t do like a brother could. I think he
would be good, don’t you sister?”
	“O, yes Hessie pa and ma are so good they
could not have a bad child. I wonder why
they did not have a son as well as daughters.
The Lord does all things best. Let us wish
for a brother on Christmas! “All right.”
“Now you wish Hess and so will I and we
will see which one gets it. I’ll get the sticks 
you hold them and I will draw; the one that
gets the short one gets her wish. Here goes.”
“I have it.” “Let’s try again, once more for
grace, Luce all right, here goes I have it. We
will both get our wish but we will keep it a
secret until Christmas.”
	As they were returning to the house they
met the hired man Tom. “Well girls how
now, gathering up for the Christmas tree
ar’n’t you.” “Yes, Tom and you have got
to do your part, get the tree; we want a very
nice large one, we expect to decorate it with
our handiwork. Hess and I.” “Yes girls I
am going to have a finger in the pie and you
may be sure it will be a fine one, I always
try to please the lasses.
		“To make them rememberme.
		So hang me up on the Christmas ree."
	“Oh Tom you are always full of merriment
how could we?” “Easy enough I intend to
get it large enough to crawl up to the top
branch for a Christmas present.” “And you
would make a nice one you are always so
obliging and good natured, “was Hessie’s re-
ply.” “But I am not as good as little curly
head” speaking through his nose in the
Yankee style. Tom was a favorite with all,
he had been an old standby for years, and as
the old gentleman was feeble this faithful old
steward looked after out door concerns with
great trust and care.
	Tom passed along thinking of the good
times he had enjoyed in this happy family
during the holidays, he was always remem-
bered with the rest of the family. Mr. and
Mrs. Grover were two old people highly re-
spected for their hospitality and marked kind-
ness to their hired help. The old gentleman
when riding out on his white horse, would go
provided with pennies in his pocket to throw
out to the children and they would scramble
around to gather them up. The children all
loved him for his kindness to them and they
treated him with great respect. He would
ride away saying to himself, “these are fine
noble boys, I wish I had been blest with


just one boy, but then my girls are so good
I ought to be satisfied, some day I may have
a son-in-law and this will bring things around
all right.”
	His wife Mrs. Grover was a kind hearted
good woman; she loved her husband, was a
devoted wife she studied his every wish and
spent her most happy hours in his society,
they had lived happily for a great many
years, her disposition in youth was like her
daughter Hessie, volatile, full of mirth and
gladness. William Grover first met her at a
Christmas dinner, his family lived near neigh-
bors to her’s and were invited there on that
festive occasion, and afterwards he became her
suitor. They were not married for several
years after, as he went abroad to be educated,
his parents were well to do and left him a
nice little fortune at their death; he made
good use of what his father left. They al-
ways had plenty and to spare. The fireside
was always bright and cheerful. That Christ-
mas dinner was often cited to, as an omen
of good luck to the happy pair, and now as
the day was not far off the theme of love
that animated their hearts at that first Christ-
mas meeting seemed to awaken afresh in their
minds, that love in well balanced minds will
never die out, but grow stronger as fleeting
time goes by, and then beyond the grave, it
lives where endless joys and bliss in perfect life
will neverend.
	The girls had been kept at boarding school
from the time they were old enough to leave
home and attend, they were quite proficient
in their studies. Lucia was a fine performer
on the piano with her tapering fingers she
would run over the keys with great dexterity.
Then Hessie’s voice with Lucia’s accompani-
ment was music itself, so sweet and soft, they
would sing together, and the listener would
be enrapt. It was vacation and the girls were
at home through the holidays. They loved
their home it was to them a paradise, and
when from school the house was enlivened by
their merrie chat and presence. But they real-
ized the need of knowledge and a finished
education and they were determiued to mas-
ter every branch. They had no suitors at
this present time, the young men of the vil-
lage looked on them as being a little higher
up than they could reach, yet they would
speak of them with great respect and defer-
ence. The girls were untrammeled, contented
and happy, they knew no reverse of fortune,
that brings clouds and discontent,. But theirs
was a favored and happy life.
	“Now Hess this may be our last stroll to
the woods,” said Lucia as they walked toward
the house with the evergreens quite tired out.
“Now sister,’' said Hessie “what shall we do
with these,” holding up her arms. “We will
take them to the cook’s room and make them
up for the tree,” away they go to her room.
“Here we come Mamie with our arms full
and we want you to help us and say nothing
to pa and ma, we will make the tree a sur-
prise to them, we can come here an hour or
two and get it quite ready and they will think
we are helping with the dinner.” The cook
was one with the girls to have a little fun,
and she liked to indulge them when at home.
The cook had been in the family almost as
long as the steward and seemed like one of the
family.
	No one could prevail on her to leave the
good old folks, she had a room to herself and
rather did as she pleased. She was a model
housekeeper and could not be beat in cook-
ing. The girls when at home were more in
the kitchen than the mother and things went
on all right under Mamie’s supervision, so they
were left to her care. And while the girls
tripped away to let their mother know they
had come, Mamie laid the different greens
on papers and soliloquized to herself. “The

[Column 2]
dear girls, I would do any thing for their
pleasure and gratification. They are such
sweet-tempered and good girls.” At that
moment Tom knocked at the door and
came in. “The girls say I am to bring the
tree right in here and be mum and then spirit
it away Christmas, from here to the parlor.”
“Yes, Tom that is just what you may do,
there is a closet in the hall, we will dress it
up and put it there and you can get up early
in the morning and slip it in the parlor.”
“All right Mamie.”	Now a new idea flashed
across Tom’s mind as he strode away. “Dress
it up he said to himself, I am going to have
a hand in dressing up the tree I will put my
coat around, stuff my pants, stuff a head and
make them think it is me. I told the girls I
would hang myself up, in it, ha, ho, won’t they
laugh, come Christmas come.”
	“And I’ll have some fun.” He was a great
rhymer and always jolly.
			But I must wait
			And kiss my Kate.
	The house was a rustic old-fashioned one
set well back from the road, with long rows of
ornamental trees on either side which made a
nice shade in the summer up a smooth
garveled walk, at the end was an old wicket
gate, as you passed through this a garden dis-
playing good taste, well laid out met your
view, although at this season of the year few
flowers were in bloom, the summer ones were
covered to preserve them from the frost and
getting winter killed.
	The lawn was still green and the fountain
sending forth its spray, the woodbine, myrtle
and ivy festooned around the pillars of the
old fashioned porch and windows. The front
door steps were hewn stone and led up to the
main entrance. The front door was large and
massive with small narrow windows at the
sides. The doors folded back into a large
and spacious hall which was lighted with a
chandelier as you entered, the old fashioned
custom was observed, if a gentleman he set
his hat and gloves on the table took off his
overcoat and overshoes in the hall, if a lady,
she left her wraps, and the host or hostess
came forward to receive and welcome them.
The parlor was large, the furniture was ele-
gant rich and costly, the finest velvet covered
the chairs and sofa; over a large old time fire
place with grate and fenders, set vases filled
with flowers that bloomed late, intermixed
with green, which the girls delighted to keep
fresh and beautiful. The greatest feature of
the room was the likenesses, father and
mother hung side by side. Hessie’s hung by
her mother’s and the faces looked so much
alike, you could but tell the difference by the
age, Lucia’s was beside her father, she re-
sembled him more than her mother. There
had been no pains spared, no expense with-
held to make this home a happy one and to
perpetuate that satisfaction that should the
dear old parents pass away, their dear children
could look upon their counterpart, or should
the girls be taken away by a divine Providence
their features were left on canvas and would
not be so easily forgotten. When you gazed
upon the portrait of the youngest it seemed as
though her lips would part to speak, to bring
the dimples in her cheeks with a smile, so like
was she taken  The artest was an expert and
could bring nature to his command, he was
master of his art and could bring it into
requisition; such the father had sought to take
his charming daughters, and his wife and
his own.
	The whole house was in keeping with the
parlor. The sitting room was neatly furnished
to make it comfortable, easy chairs and
lounges, windows large to emit the rays of the
glorious sun and light up its already cheer-
ful aspect for everything had been done with
taste and good judgment to make this room

[Column 3]
cheerful. Here Delia as William called his
dear old lady, liked to sit always busy with
her needle. The whole appearance of the
room was homelike and was adorned with her
needle work which made it bright and cozy.
The bed spread, curtains, chairs and lounges
were covered with tidies by her deft fingers.
And now as Christmas was drawing near, she
was more busy than ever. Although they
had means at their command she made it a
rule to make some articles of her own
work, a present to each one of the family.
The steward and cook included. Tom must
have a necktie, a pair of socks, marked to be-
sure, “ar’n’t they nice” he would say. He
would make rhymes when he was pleased, this
was his verse the last Christmas.
		"Socks for me, a necktie too
		What they want, I'll always do.”
	The cook must be remembered too, a pocket
handkerchief needle worked around the edge,
and father must have a white shirt worked
very neatly. The girls must have white
aprons with pockets and tucks.
	The extra cooking for Christmas was going
on finely, Mamie was in the kitchen prepar-
ing the mince for the pies, as it must stand
some time she said to be good to get pickeled,
or the pies would taste flat and insipid, she
prided herself on making good mince pie, and
fixing up things to the taste. “Hess you may
seed the raisins, pare the apples and grind the
spices, I will chop the meat and get it all
ready to mix together and then it can stand
over a week, I can bake all the pies in the
oven at once the middle of next week; the
bread and cake next baking. Tom may kill
the turkey, goose and chicks, and I will pick
off their feathers when they are hung up,
they will freeze stiff this weather as the air
has changed since we talked together about
the coming Christmas.”
	The cook kept her hands busy and her
tongue too sometimes on such occasions as
this one. Tom looked in as he was passing by
the door he said “girls when shall I fetch the
tree?” “any time you like” said the cook “only
give us time to dress it, two days before
Christmas that will do.” “Take it to your
room shall I?” “Yes Tom, now go about
your business in double quick time and kill
the fowls for me to dress,” away he went say-
ing he would have a hand in dressing.
	There was a boarding house kept in the
village by a maiden lady of great respecta-
bility, and there were two gentleman boarders
that had come in town of late; they were
college chums and one of the two was a
nephew to the lady that kept the house. He
was a young man of high standing in society
finely built about six feet in hight, dark hair
and complexion gentlemanly in bearing, no-
bility shone out in every act and word. His
companion was of a different cast in face and
figure; he was honesty itself with a good
heart and obliging manners, not so much the
fine gentleman with polished airs, but truth-
ful and good, there could not have been a
greater contrast between two individuals, one
was light and delicate in constitution fair skin,
a curly, sandy beard. Both were of good re-
spectable parentage. The nephew had come
to make a short stay with his aunt, and had
brought his friend with him to spend the
holidays and have a change from a city life.
Fred Stanley was the name of the lady’s
nephew, Harry Hasting the name of the other.
“Now Harry said Fred as they sat together in
their neat little room cozy enough it was too,
a cheerful fire blazing away on the hearth.
“How shall we make our acquaintance with
those nymphs of the woods, we heard chatting
away about Christmas, I would give my whole
fortune to get her for a wife she is such a
fairy, what a model of health and beauty, she
is fair as a lily, and oh what a voice its sweet


[Column 1]
notes still ring in my ears and awakens a
tender feeling."
	Stanley was at an age when he thought of 
marrying and settling down in life, he was
quite a home body and longed for that day to
come, he was not much of a rover and now as
he had seen and heard sweet Hessie, although
a silent spectator, his whole mind was bent on
making her acquaintance. "Dead in love,"
said Harry who was not so hasty in making
up his miud to settle down in life, he did not
so much fancy Fred's choice although he
thought the curly headed girl very pretty, no
one could think otherwise.
	But Harry had his mind bent toward the
other sister, her dark glossy hair, dreamy eyes,
and graceful figure made a greater impression
upon him than he was willing to admit of to
Fred. But he was determined like his friend
to get acquainted. They had frequently met
Tom the steward as they were out sight seeing,
the country village had new charms for the
two gentlemen as not far distant lived the
ones they had eaves-dropped and admired.
They would have made themselves known
then at once, but delicacy forbade, they were
truly gentlemen in action and sentiment, they
would not accost two young ladies alone with-
out an introduction; this would have been con-
sidered impolite, uncivil, rash in those days,
for a gentleman to speak to a lady without a
former acquaintance. In days gone by
modesty was the safeguard of virtue, boldness
paves the way to ruin. "Say Fred let us go
over to the mansion and have a chat with
the steward we may be able to get him to
plead our cause." "all right Harry, just as
you say," too well pleased with the opportu-
nity now offered, so they walked along toward
the house, Tom was trimming up some shrub-
bery outside, and looking up, saw the two
gentlemen walking up the graveled walk, Tom
gave them a welcome bow and passed the
compliments of the day. They were soon in
deep conversation, Tom bowing assent to their
inquiries. He invited them to go to the house
but they declined,  and walked away. "I
think Harry we have got the steward favorably
impressed and he will be our vicegerent, and
we will get acquainted with the inmates, in-
side of those old rustic boards. If so it will
make us the happiest of lovers." Tom was
quite taken np with the gentlemen and after
they left went on talking to himself after this
strain. "Now the tree is to be a surprise and
I am to make another by getting the girls to
come into the garden to gather some late
flowers for their vases and the young gentle
men will happen along and I will introduce
them to the girls they must not live old maids,
they are too nice for that, ar'n't they? and
then the old gentleman will be so pleased with
a son-in-law, that tall one has a fine cast to
make one if it takes right I must not count
up things too fast. But wait at the garden
gate." Tom was talking to himself all this
time.
	The Grovers were intending to invite some
of their near neighbors, so they were cooking
up enough, a great deal more than their
family could possibly consume, some would be
left over for New Year's and there would not 
have to be so much cooking done on that day.
The cook would say I have mince, squash
pies and cake enough ahead for the next
holiday, even if there should be a wedding,
that cake is good enough for the occasion,
little thinking her words might come true.
	The weather would not admit of the girls
going out much, as the change had made it a
great deal colder and it was quite stormy,
some snow falling but not sufficient for sleigh-
riding which was much enjoyed by the young
folks. But they expected one by Christmas,
so they were more confined to the house and
did not learn a great deal about the folks in

[Column 2]
the village. They had heard about the two
young men at the hoarding house but that
was all they knew about them. Mrs. Grover
was intending to invite Miss Stanley the aunt
and some others. The girls were very busy
when they were not in the kitchen helping
the cook, they were working on the trimmings
for the Christmas tree in the cook’s room. This
labor engrossed all their thoughts except some
moments they spared to see if pa or ma
wanted their service to do an errand, or save
them steps if they wanted any thing. Ma
thought they were busy in the kitchen, and
knew nothing about the tree they were spend-
ing so much labor on with wreaths of ever-
green and paper flowers, here and there a
natural one some white and some variegated.
They were so much taken up with all these
things they had not thought of their Christ-
mas wish expressed when they took their last
stroll to the woods and gathered their ever
greens for the Christmrs tree, the vases and
to hang in festoons about the house, and they
little thought that other ears heard and were
near by to make a wish that might be fulfilled;
such is behind the curtain of time and our
knowledge of future events.
	Tom, and the old gentleman were straight-
ening up things around the outside of the
house, the leaves had to be gathered off the
grass plat, the winter flowers tied up in
bunches, the runners kept in their places and
the walks cleaned up, everything had to be
kept in order. The old gentleman took his
daily walk about the premises to see that
nothing was neglected, though he had but
little occasion as the steward kept things very
orderly. But Mr. Grover would remark, “if
the owner did not show an interest in his
property and concerns he could not expect it
of his hired help and if he looked after things
it would be an incentive to Tom to do the
same.” And in this course of life, laid the
great secret to having faithful help. “Now
Tom, I see no occasion lor finding fault with
any thing you have the charge of you have
done as well as I could have done myself, but
you know Tom, I have always looked after
things, not because I think yon cannot be
trusted or are neglectful.” Mr. Grover al-
ways had a kind word for his faithful steward,
he loved his employer and would do any thing
to please him, as he had acted like a father
and been kind.
	Tom saw the young men coming at the end
of the graveled walk, and to himself as they
approached nearer. “Now” thought Tom “the
most proper thing for me to do is to introduce
them first to the father;” as the gate was open
to carry out the rubbish, they walked in.
The girls had just stepped out upon the porch
wondering who the strangers were, as Tom had
invited them to come for the flowers; he had
clipped some before he tied them up in
bunches. As the young men stood facing
the two, Tom introduced them, “Mr. Grover,
this is Mr. Stanley, and Mr. Hasting two
young gentlemen that are stopping at the
boarding house this one, looking at Fred, is
Miss Stanley’s nephew, I have met them be-
fore and invited them in to see the garden.”
	Mr. Grover extended his hand and gave
each a hearty shake and cordially invited
them in to the house. He was a man of great
sociability, and was very courteous to strangers.
The girls had gone back to the parlor, think-
ing the strangers would soon leave, and they
could go to the garden and get the flowers; as
they wanted to put fresh ones in the vases,
they had on their every day suits but they
were neatly fitting dresses; they wore with
them a little narrow edge of needle work
around the neck and sleeves, white aprons
low slippers, their hair combed neatly back
from their foreheads. Hessie showing one of
marble whiteness as loose cirls hung about it,

[Column 3]
her lips just parting with a smile to show two
dimples one in each cheek, their eyes beamed
with happiness and joy, their cheeks were
flushed with rosy tints of health. They had
been busy at work through the forepart of
the day to execute their designs for the an-
ticipated coming Christmas day. As the
gentlemen walked into the parlor Mr. Grover
said “My daughters Mr. Stanley, Mr. Hast-
ing. Be seated gentlemen.” as the girls set
chairs. They made their stay short, but in-
teresting, as they had traveled a great deal and
had learned the ways of the world by strict
observation of men and things, Hessie’s eyes
dropped as she met those of Fred, and the
color of her cheek was heightened as he would
look at her, then at her likeness and her
mother’s, “Miss Grover you do look so much
like your mother’s likeness, and your own is
so life like, your sister’s too is very natural.
The artist knew how to use his pencil he
said “yes, she said father employed the best
one he could hear of he was first class, the
price was not questioned, father was so well
satisfied.” Harry and Lucia kept up a lively
conversation until the hour arrived to leave
which was very reluctantly done. The ladies
invited the gentlemen to call again, and they
took their leave. Fred was enamored with that
visit and lost that night’s sleep and many
more before he could make up his mind to
ask his lady love in marriage.
	Harry took a great liking to Lucia her
modest genteel ways, her shining luxuriant
hair, her dreamy eyes and lady like appear-
ance, had won his admiration but he had a
way of hiding his feelings and not letting
them be known, he could dissemble in such
matters but his heart was true and when once
set on an object it could not change, he loved
an object for its worth and goodness, it was
not fictitious but real, he saw in the older
sister virtues that led her to self denial her
happiness consisted in making others so, this
he observed the little time he had been in
her society and this was the opinion he formed
of her character that day in the woods. She
had also become deeply interested in him, she
believed him to be very honorable and upright.
And as the girls bad had no suitors prior to
this it was very natural that they should he
favorably inclined toward the strangers.
	Their hearts had gone cut in unison to
these two visitors. “Dear sister, we must re-
turn to our task said Lucia as they sat by
the pleasant fire grate in the parlor think-
ing of the event ot the day, “I am afraid
those two chaps nave put things out of our
minds that we ought to be attending to in
cook’s room and kitchen,” “I am sure they
have out of mine, (said Hessie) what a fine
form, what a carriage he has, meaning Fred,
nobility is in every movement,” Oh, what
sparkling eyes what an intellect, and oh, my
heart Luce,” placing her hands over it,
“and if it aches said her sister you must
think no more of these strangers,” feeling a
solicitude for her sister, here comes Mamie
“Well girls what keeps you away so long, we
must be getting things ready and fix things
up in grand style as your pa has sent Tom
around to the boarding house to invite Miss
Stanley her nephew and his friend and I
don’t know how many more.” The cook feel-
ing the great responsibility wanted the girl’s
help, this news gave them an impetus and
away they went to the kitchen.	
	The young men on their homeward march
discussed their good fortune in making the
girls acquaintance and the old gentleman,
they admired his hospitality, “that charmer
curly head, Harry, has made me think what
I dare not say, did you ever feel that way
Harry when you were in the company of the.
		[Continued on page 118.]


