A GLANCE BACKWARD.

I turned me backward more than forty years,
	And gazed upon a picture dim with age.
My eyes were blinded with the falling tears;
	I scarce could read the retrospective page;
And yet I knew the meaning passing well
Of that strange scene, the story I could tell.

'Twas written and engraved upon my mind,
	Then laid away in memory's silent hall;
And as with silken cords we sometimes bind
	Old letters, and the dearest things of all;
So I had folded up, and laid away,
The childish recollection of that day.

The fire blazed fitfully and shadows crept
	All through the rooms, like spectres in and out;
And the pale moonlight down the pathway swept,
	Silvering the vines and shrub'ry round about;
And in the distance, phantom like there stood
The trees that skirted round the neighborhood.

The lamps were lighted, and the tables set,
	And round the festive board of goodly cheer,
Old friends and true, long-parted now were met
	Seeking to banish ev'ry care and fear;
And join in happy converse with glad hearts,
Such as sweet music to the soul imparts.

The song and jest and merry tale went round,
	And each one sought to break the mystic spell;
But laughter echoed in a hollow sound.
	As though a shadow on the household fell— 
A premonition as it were of ill.
Seem'd ev'ry one assembled there to fill.

How is it that when joy is at its height,
	A shadow broodeth o'er the gayest scene?
When ev'ry pulse is throbbing with delight,
	Dark clouds like omens, come and intervene;
And smiles and gladness, quickly disappear
Before the consciousness of unknown fear.

Yet so it is, and often when we think,
	Our cup of happiness is running o'er,
E'en while we lift it to our lips to drink—
	A blast has shattered it forevermore;
Yet disappointment cometh not in vain,
Life's richest treasures, oft are bought with pain.


'Twas a fair company, a happy sight,
	The loved ones gathered in the dear old place;
And evermore, that memorable night
	Shines forth with something of a kindly grace,
Sad with that sweetness born of smiles and tears,
That hallows home, and glorifies the years.

There on that night, two lovers young and gay.
	Plighted their troth, and solemn promise made;
And even then, they felt some potent sway
	Of dread, the very atmosphere pervade,
But love is strong and vows of constancy
They interchang'd in fond expectancy.

Music and dancing whiled away the hours,
	And love and friendship bore a faithful part;
Sweeter than perfume of the rarest flowers
	Are these expressions of the human heart;
Ane O, with what delightful charms we grace,
The hearts and homes we’ve made our dwelling place.

At last the music ceased and all was still,—
	And then a busy hurrying to and fro.
And in the crisp night air "peace and good will,"
	Is the last benediction they bestow,
As from that home, each went their sep'rate way,
Nor ever met again as on that day.

But often in the years that followed fast,
	These friends, and brothers, sisters ev'ry one
Knew how prophetic were the clouds, that cast
	Such gloom and sadness, ere that night was done.
And what that household, and that home befell,
Where happiness and joy were wont to dwell.

Where now are those who sang the sweetest songs,
	Or told such wondrous tales of land and sea?
Do they forget that past to which belongs
	So much, that seemed a prophecy to be?
Ah me, what vigils, waking or in sleep,—
Tho' ever silent do our fancies keep.

Alas, how swiftly all the years have flown
	That intervene since that eventful day;
Tho' thorns and briers have been thickly strewn,
	As we have trod life's rough and rugged way
Yet still we hasten and brighter glow
The hopes, the talisman of "long ago."
