WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
JULIA Y. BURTON.
	The sad, and it would seem untimely death of
Sister Julia Burton which occurred November 29,
1889—in Birmingham, England, has fallen heavily
indeed upon the young husband, and aged
mother; and the tender sympathy of hundreds of 
loving friends and relatives is extended to them 
in the midst of their sorrow in this great be-
reavement. Words are inadequate at such a time,
and yet they are all one can give to the mourner,
and sometimes they carry consolation, because of
the spirit that accompanies them, and the convic-
tion that they are spoken in such sincerity that
they fall like healing balm upou the wounded
soul.
	It is always with deep regret we chronicle the
death of a friend, and particularly so when one
passes away in the very prime of life, surrounded
with loving care and tenderness and all that
makes this world a desirable place to dwell in.
	Looking back one year it seems scarcely pos-
sible that so many we have known, young and
promising, could have been snatched away by the
destroyer, leaving their vacant places in happy
households
	True it is, that "in the midst of life we are in
death." and this seems plainly illustrated in the
sudden decease of Sister Burton; to be sure it
had become well known that she suffered from
some inward cause, but it was hoped and believed 
that with skillful treatment, she would rally again
if she were to undergo, as was anticipated would
be necessary, a surgical operation. But in this
case where the most ardent hopes of recovery 
were entertained, it proved fatal; just after the
news had reached her home and friends here in
this city, that the operation had been successfully
performed in England, whither she had gone to
obtain the best medical attention, came the startl-
ing message from over the sea, that Julia was
dead. To die away from home and native land
makes it sadder still for those on whom the fatal
blow falls with cruel force. And in this instance
to the young husband thus bereft, who can tell
the agony, or measure the depth of grief in his
sorrow-stricken heart as he journeyed homeward
across the migthy acean, lonely and bowed down
with his weight of woe? Only God knows the
pain and suffering endured under such heavy af-
flictions. But He who tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb, will not forsake the sorrowing hus-
band, nor the gentle, true hearted mother, brothers
and sisters and loved ones, who mourn her loss
here and miss her from her accustomed place in
the family circle.
	To those who knew her intimately Mrs. Burton
was greatly beloved; her lively temperament, her
vivacity of manner, her far-reaching hospitality 
together with many other endearing qualities of
head and heart, made her a general favorite, and
she will long be missed in the gatherings where
she was wont to be one of the gayest and hap-
piest of all the crowd.
	But with Julia all is well, she has gone in the 
full bloom of womanhood to join the innumerable 
company of the just made perfect, and there is no 
real cause for mourning, for she had doubtless
filled her earthly mission and having
participated in the blessings of the Gospel is pre-
pared to come forth in the morning of the resur-
rection to be reunited with her husband and par-
take of the blessings of immortality and eternal
lives in the celestial kingdom. The exquisitely
tender lines, of Bishop Whitney's which we give
below, express far better than this simple offering
[column 2]
to her memory, the love and tenderness with 
which her life was crowned.

