SALT LAKE CITY,
	December 12th, 1889.
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
	In consequence of gross misrepresentations of
the doctrines, aims and practices of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, commonly
called the "Mormon" Church, which have been
promulgated for years, and have recently been
revived for political purposes and to prevent all
aliens, otherwise qualified, who are members of
the "Mormon" Church from acquiring citizenship,
we deem it proper on behalf of said Church to
publicly deny these calumnies and enter our pro-
test against them.
	Wo solemnly make the following declarations,
viz:
	That this Church views the shedding of human
blood with the utmost abhorrence. That we re-
gard the killing of a human being, except in con-
formity with the civil law, as a capital crime which
should be punished by shedding the blood of the
criminal, after a public trial before a legally con-
stituted court of the land.
	Notwithstanding all the stories told about the
killing of apostates, no case of this kind has ever
occurred, and of course has never been estab-
lished against the Church we represent. Hun-
dreds of seceders from the Church have con-
tinuously resided and now live in this Territory,
many of whom have amassed considerable wealth,
though bitterly hostile to the "Mormon" faith
and people. Even those who have made it their
business to fabricate the vilest falsehoods, and to
render them plausible by culling isolated passages
from old sermons without the explanatory con-
text, and have suffered no opportunity to escape
them of vilifying and blackening the characters
of the people, have remained among those whom
they have thus persistently calumniated until the
present day, without receiving the slightest per-
sonal injury.
	We denounce as entirely untrue the allegation
which has been made, that our Church favors or
believes in the killing of persons who leave the
Church or apostatize from its doctrines. We
would view a punishment of this character for
such an act with the utmost horror, it is abhorrent
to us and is in direct opposition to the funda-
mental principles of our creed.
	The revelations of God to this Church make
death the penalty for capital crime, and require
that offenders against life and property shall be
delivered up to and tried by the laws of the land.
	We declare that no Bishop's or other courts in
this Church claims or exercises civil or judicial
functions, or the right to supersede, annul or
modify a judgment of any civil court. Such courts,

[Column 2]

while established to regulate Christian conduct,
are purely ecclesiastical, and their punitive
powers go no further than the suspension or ex-
communication of members from Church fellow-
ship.
	That this Church, while offering advice for the
welfare of its members in all conditions of life,
does not claim or exercise the right to interfere
with citizens in the free exercise of social or politi-
cal rights and privileges. The ballot in this Terri-
tory is absolutely untrammeled and secret. No
man's business or other secular affairs are in-
vaded by the Church or any of its officers. Free
agency and direct individual accountability to God
are among the essentials of our Church doctrine.
All things in the Church must be done by common
consent, and no officer is appointed without the
vote of the body.
	We declare that there is nothing in the ceremony
of the Endowment, or in any doctrine, tenet, obli-
gation or injunction of this Church, either private
or public,which is hostile or intended to be hostile
to the Government of the United States. On the
contrary, its members are under divine command-
ment to revere the Constitution as a heaven-in-
spired instrument and obey as supreme all laws
made in pursuance of its provisions.
	Utterances of prominent men in the Church at
a time of great excitement have been selected
and grouped, to convey the impression that
present members are seditious. Those expres-
sions were made more than thirty years ago, when
through the falsehoods of recreant officials, after-
wards demonstrated to be baseless,troops were sent
to this Territory and were viewed by the people,in
their isolated condition, fifteen hundred miles
from railroads, as an armed mob coming to renew
the bloody persecutions of years before.
	At that time excitement prevailed and strong
language was used; but no words of disloyalty
against the Government or its institutions were
uttered; public speakers confined their remarks
to denouncing traitorous officials who were pros-
tituting the powers of their positions to accompiish
nefarious ends. Criticism of the acts of United
States officials was not considered then, neither
is it now, as treason against the nation nor as
hostility to the Government. In this connection
we may say that the members of our Church have
never offered or intended to offer, any insult to
the flag of our country; but have always honored
it as the ensign of laws and liberty.
	We also declare that this Church does not
claim to be an independent, temporal kingdom of
God, or to be an imperium in imperio aiming to
overthrow the United States or any other civil
government. It has been organized by divine
revelation preparatory to the second advent of the
Redeemer. It proclaims that "the kingdom of
heaven is at hand." Its members are commanded
of God to be subject unto the powers that be until
Christ comes, whose right it is to reign.
	Church government and civil government are
distinct and separate in our theory and practice,
and we regard it as part of our destiny to aid in
the maintenance and perpetuity of the institutions
of our country.
	We claim no religious liberty that we are un-
willing to accord to others.
	We ask for no civil or political rights which are
not granted and guaranteed to citizens in general.
	We desire to be in harmony with the Govern-
ment and people of the United States as an in-
tegral part of the nation.
	We regard all attempts to exclude aliens from
naturalization, and citizens from the exercise of
the elective franchise, solely because they are
members of the "Mormon" Church, as impolitic,
unrepublican, and dangerous encroachment upon
civil and religious liberty.
	Notwithstanding the wrongs we consider we
have suffered through the improper execution of
national laws, we regard those wrongs as the acts

[Column 3]

of men and not of the Government; and we in-
tend, by the help of Ominpotence, to remain firm
in our fealty and steadfast in the maintenance of
constitutional principles and the integrity of this
Republic.
	We earnestly appeal to the American press and
people not to condemn the Latter-day Saints un-
heard. Must we always be judged by the mis-
representations of our enemies, and never be ac-
corded a fair opportunity of representing our-
selves?
	In the name of justice, reason and humanity,
we ask for a suspension of national and popular
judgement until a full investigation can be had
and all the facts connected with what is called the
"Mormon" question can be known. And we ap-
peal to the Eternal Judge of all men and nations to
aid us in the vindication of our righteous cause.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF,
		GEORGE Q. CANNON,
		JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
		LORENZO SNOW,
		FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS,
		BRIGHAM YOUNG,
		MOSES THATCHER,
		FRANCIS M. LYMAN,
		JOHN HENRY SMITH,
		GEORGE TEASDALE,
		HEBER J. GRANT,
		JOHN W. TAYLOR,
		M. W. MERRILL,
		A. H. LUND,
		ABRAHAM H. CANNON,
	Members of the Council of the Apostles.
		JOHN W. YOUNG,
		DANIEL H. WELLS,
			Counselors.


“A Happy New Year” to all the friends, patrons
and readers of the EXPONENT.  May it be a pros-
perous one to the Saints and to all those who are
working for the good of humanity at home or
abroad.  In the year just dawning there will with-
out doubt be many great and important changes,
transpiring, for the work of advancement goes on
and the prophecies of ancient and modern
prophets, seers and revelators, are being and will
continue to be fulfilled.  There is always a sort of
sadness mingled with the joy which is awakened
in the heart by the advent of the New Year.
One cannot but tremble a little in crossing its
threshold knowing not what it will bring with it.
The writer hopes and most fervently too, that this
New Year 1890 may bring greater prosperity to
the EXPONENT and an increased circulation, so
that it may be able to appear in a new dress be-
fore the end of the present year.


The story we publish in this issue has taken so
much of the space that Reports of Conferences,
Suffrage items, death notices and other matter
had to be left over. Hephzibah will also be con-
tinued in Jan. 15.


