A CHRISTMAS WISH.

[Continued from page 115.]

other sex?" he would not admit that he did,
although he knew it was so he had the tact
to keep it to himself. But Fred being of a
more open, talkative disposition he would
out with his feelings. "Tomorrow we will
walk around to the mansion again, I am going
to ask the father for his daughter, that is, if
I can pluck up courage enough," "Well
Fred I hope you don't ask him for Miss Luco
(as I heard her called, for short I suppose,) I
want that pleasure myself." "No, Harry I
shan't bother my head about you and Luce
you can have it all your own way, the young-
est is my style, "the nymph of the woods." As
he finished the sentence, a knock at the door
was heard. He opened it, a note was handed
to him it was the invitation to attend the
Christmas dinner at Mr. Grover's  This de-
lighted them both as they did not expect it,
Fred knew that his aunt was going, but did
not expect so great a pleasure as that they
would be among the bidden guests. The next
day they paid another visit to their sweet
hearts, they were kindly received and made
welcome, they were now on familiar terms
with the family. Fred walked out to have a
conversation with Mr. Grover as he was
generally with Tom giving orders or looking
after things. Fred had to be couragous at
this time, he was determined to know if he
would be accepted as a son-in-law, he came 
nearly backing out as he saw the old gentle-
man coming toward him and thought he
would make some remark about the weather.
Bnt no, he said to himself I'll be resolute this
time as he had tried to broach the subject be-
fore. It seemed as though Mr. Grover
anticipated the young man's thoughts and
accosted him with such kindness that Fred
took fresh courage and said. "Mr. Grover
you had once to ask" Yes, yes, young man
(not waiting the end of the sentence,) you
wish to ask me for my daughter in marriage."
"That is just it, but it was hard work to ex-
press myself."


Fred said their acquaintance had been
rather short but he believed he knew his mind
as well now as he would a year hence, (said
he, I love your daughter Hess and it will be
the study of my life to make her happy and
show to you that I am sincere I thought it
the most honorable to speak to you and get
your consent first, the parents that have
raised their children to maturity ought
to have the first say about such matters.
You will be kind enough to speak to your
wife for her consent, I have not as yet spoken
to your daughter on this subject not feeling
at liberty to do so, untill I had your
approval.”
	Mr. Grover very much admired the candor,
good sense and earnestness of the young man.
He replied that if his daughter accepted his
offer, he had his consent and wished them
much joy and happiness as they walked life’s
path together. He promised he would speak
to the mother on the all-important subject.
Fred walked into the house feeling more at
ease and satisfied with himself for the course
he had taken. Tom seeing the two talking
together thought about what it might be. He
said to himself,” the Christmas tree is going to
be a surprise and we may have a wedding
and that will be another, is not he a fine look-
ing chap; master will be proud of him for a.
son-in-law and he comes around and is so
willing to help, he knows just how to get
through this life easy and that is by making
friends by helping every body.” Fred had
worked himself into the good graces of the
household. The steward and cook were often
heard speaking of his good qualities, unknown
to himself he was unassuming and would make
himself useful wherever he went. This was
natural to his nature,to lighten other’s burdens
he would lend a helping hand under all cir-
cumstances. Tom would remark to Mamie “if
Hess gets a husband she will a servant” and
this was true, as time told. Fred did not see
much of Harry as he was more common-place
than his genteel friend, he would seek Luce in
the cook’s room or in the kitchen when she
would be engaged at the work always busy em-
ployed helping Mamie. The young men made
short visits, they did not wish to be tedious
nor hinder the girls from their work, but as
they felt lonesome not being much acquainted
they liked to call at the mansion.
	The gentlemen returned to their boarding
house, they met, Miss Stanley at the door.
She mistrusted that there was a load-stone at
the farm house, where she was invited to dine
at Christmas. “Well boys” she said, “you
seem to be often out and I notice you direct
your course one certain way, I expect to be
invited to a wedding before long.”
	Feeling a little jocular. “So do I dear
Aunt,” Fred replied,“will it be, to Mr. Smith?
across the way?” She did not care to be
jested about him, as he had called a few times
of late, but did not meet with much en-
couragement from the maiden aunt. The
young men were soon closeted together in their
room.” We must buy some presents for this
Christmas occasion, Harry what will you
get to hang on the tree? “Oh, a doll of
course, for a bit of fun I suppose, what will
yours be Fred? “Oh, a wedding ring” Heigh-
he is that your intention?” “Yes, if I can get
her consent.” “You are very hasty in your
make up I have not thought of such a thing,
but I may, after the holidays.” This was like
Harry, he took things more moderate than
Fred, he was none the less in love for that
trait, in his character. But would not put
his plans in execution as quick as Fred and
he was somewhat younger too than he, and
did not see the necessity of settling down so
soon. As it was getting late they retired to
their beds to dream of love and the coming
hristmas; sleeping is sweet and balmy to th

[Column 2]
'sincere lover, he sees beauty in every object
and they whisper this is love, nothing to him
looks dreary or sad. He looks to one that
will share his fortune or his sorrows and make
a home bright and cheerful, one dear spot on
earth where he can rest and center all his
hopes, he wanders no more, his feet and mind
are stayed. He has a loving wife to bid him
welcome, prattling ones to climb upon his
knee, a happy home and many dear friends.
This is the climax of all other things. “A
home, sweet home,” so thought Fred Stanley
as he rose from his bed, refreshed and anima-
ted with such things in view.
	Fred made his toilet putting on a few extras
after dinner, as he intended to have a talk
with his nymph of the woods as he would call
Hess. He intended to go alone and not say
any thing to Harry about going this time, as
he wanted to think how he would broach the
subject or put his thoughts into words, many
times in going the distance from one house to
another he would make up sentences and then
think they were abrupt then flat or soft for
a gentleman to utter to a lady, and when he
arrived at the threshold, he knew not what
he would say. This time Mrs. Grover an-
swered the door, she very pleasantly invited
him into the parlor, he found her to be con-
versant on many subjects and topics of the
day, he admired her views and ideas with re-
gard to the education of children, she said
“they could not be too young to make good
impressions on their minds and this should be
done before evil impressions were made, for
evil ones would be like rank weeds sown in a
garden, when the good seed was sown last,
the weeds would come up first and overrun
the plants. Lay a foundation she said that
would do to build upon, also teach them re-
ligious sentiments, that they must be thank-
ful to their Heavenly Father for the preserva-
tion of their lives, their existence here on
earth, teach them of a life beyond this, that
they were created for a life of usefulness, to be
good, generous and kind to others this will
make them happy and contented with their
lot, keep infidelity out of their hearts and
minds, infidelity and doubt lead away from a
better life.”
	“There are many precious souls that go to
ruin, through the neglect of their parents, not
being properly instructed while young, when
their minds can be bent like the twig.” “My
dear lady those are my views, I can endorse
them all, I am pleased to have the opportunity
of listening to such sound sense and reason,
ing and hope I may profit by your words.”
She excused herself and called in her daughter
Hessie, as she had been told by her husband
that he wished to marry her. This met their
approval, Fred wished her to get her things
for a walk, as the sun shone, the day was more
pleasant than usual he took her arm and
drew it through his, they walked along in
silence together down the walk, finally he
broke it by asking Hessie if she remembered
that she expressed a wish when she and her
sister broke the sticks on their ramble in the
woods. She blushed deeply as it came to
mind what she wished for, and wondered how
he should know so much about that event.
“We two were there but did not like to in-
trude ourselves upon your solitude I think
your words were these, to your sister.” “Let
us wish for a brother on Christmas.” “Here
I am Hessie I offer myself for a Christmas
present to be a son, and a brother, and your
most devoted husband. Say yes dear,” so
sudden was this announced that she could not
speak, her tongue was too thick to utter a
word but her eyes and silence told her secret,
she loved him, she could not help it, he was
her ideal in goodness, and she thought with-
out a fault,a perfect gentleman in actions and
manners. “You Hessie have sealed my happi-

[Column 3]
ness by your assent to my proposal, you are
my jewel forever, my nymph of the woods.
For there I first saw you. Shall we be
married on Christmas day? and then you will
gat your wish love,pa and ma will have a son,”
Hess thought this would be a good time all
things would be in readiness the cooking done
the company invited.
	All was bustle about the mansion, things
lively enough, a Christmas dinner and a
wedding the same day was a new feature, Mr.
Grover went to get the Minister for the occa-
sion all were busy doing their part, Tom had
brought the tree and sure enough it was a
large one, he had if nicely trimmed and a
stand made for it, and the girls had it covered
over with a nice stone colored material and
the girls had the evergreens in wreaths and
festoons to hang the presents on, and Tom had
not forgotten his arrangement but had it in
readiness. The cooking was all done, Mamie
had made the cake extra nice and large, to
set in the middle of the table handsomely
iced over and with two turtle doves perched
on the top and a white wreath around it,
every thing was baked in the old fashioned
brick oven,Mamie said she would set the tables
the night before Christmas and then there
would not be so much to do, Hessie said she
would put the flowers in the vases.
	Fred stepped over with his present to hang
on the tree as he had been let into the secret
by Tom, who said he was appointed to spirit
away the tree to the parlor Christmas morn-
ing, but he kept it to himself what he was
going to hang on the tree. Fred thought he
would go and see his aunt and tell her about
what would take place at the mansion. He
said to her as he arrived “dear aunt, I am
going to be married to Miss Hessie Grover on
Christmas, as you are invited I thought you
ought to know it,” “I thought so;” said his
aunt, “that you did not go there for naught,
I wish you much joy and continued happiness,
I told you I should be invited to a wedding
soon, I must dress up in my best to suit the
occasion.” “So do aunt as you may not have
the pleasure of seeing me married again in a
hurry.” Perhaps I may your friend, “was his
aunt’s reply.” Harry took every thing cool
and said there was plenty of time, but had
bought the present for his darling Luce a
handsome gold watch, he said she deserved
it and if any one had earned a present she
had. Harry was very observing and a good
judge of human nature, He saw that Lucia
made sacrifices for others comfort and happi-
ness he would think to himself often. “If I
were really worthy of her, I would marry and
settle down.” He knew she thought a great
deal of him, if she showed a perference to any
one it was to her Harry as she would some-
times call him. But they were quiet lovers
and people did not know how much they
thought of each other. But she probably
would be like her mother not marry very
young, but she was satisfied if she could see
him and be in his society. Mrs Grover would
frequently go into the kitchen to see how.
things were progressing, but she had but little
need as the cook, Tom, and the girls had
every thing in ample order, Tom was on his
tip toes to assist, he would hurry up his work
and come to the kitchen door and say, “Mamie
want some water, out of wood, want any thing
call me, (look over to the table) isn’t that
nice.”  He always had wood sawed and split
and piled up in the wood shed, so he could
soon bring an armfull to the kitchen and
would say, “I am going to have a finger in
the pie.” “Dear Hess said Luce to night is
Christmas eve and we must hang up our
stockings, (this was the custom before trees
came in vogue,) we can hang them on the
Christmas tree Luce, and we may get them
filled with stones. Well I shant mind if I ge


