VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, July 1, 1874.		NO. 3﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE PRINCESS Bismarck, now past sixty
superintends her farm work.
	REV. MRS. Vancott, believed to be the first
woman ordained a minister by the Metho-
dist church, is a speaker of great power and
earnestness.
	THE LONDON University has decided, by a
vote of 83 to 65, that "it is desirable that
women should be permitted to take degrees
in the University."
	THE UNIVERSITY of Vermont decided
thatnothing in its charter or history would 
justify it in excluding ladies from any of 
its advantages enjoyed by men.
	THE IDEA of a famine doesn't trouble an
Iowa clergyman since a recent donation
party supplied him with beans sufficient to
last thirty-seven years.
	THE LOUISIANA flood has, it is calculated,
caused direct suffering to not less than 70,
000 people; and overflowed about 12,565,000
acres in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi
and Arkansas. We trust the benevolence
of the people will be equal to the needs of
our unfortunate countrymen.


THE MENTAL AND PHYSICAL DE-
	VELOPMENT OF CHILDREN.

	The greates legacy that parents can leave
their offspring is a healthy body, an active
mind and a practical education. With these
qualifications a man can be happy, if mor-
rally disposed, and may be capable of at-
taining to any eminence; but without them
he is comparatively poor, and does not stand
equal to the one who may be thus endowed
or developed, although he may be better
provided for financially.
	It is within the power of parents to give
such legacies to their offspring? and are
parents to blame for many of the weakness-
es in their children? are the questions to be
considered. It is well known that many
diseases are transmitted from parents to
their offspring and, as is stated in the Bi-
ble, the sins of the parents are visited upon 
their children, even till the third and fourth
generation. The question may be asked,
what should parents do, in order that their
children may have healthy bodies?
	Parents, in order to have healthy, intelli-
gent children, should first seek to cultivate
themselves, by strictly observing the laws
of nature which appertain to their own
physical construction, and which requires a
wise system of diet, ventilation, cleanliness
and labor. In order that they may receive
strength and nourishment, they should eat
such food as will make them feel most
agreeable after having eaten it; they should
breathe pure, fresh air, and live in well ven-
tilated houses. These things are absolutely
necessary, in order to purify the blood. One
reason why the children of the poor and
the temperate classes of the people are, gen-
erally, healthier than those of the rich, is
because they are under the necessity of eat-
ing plain food, and their parents allow them
to go out more frequently in the open air
and have a greater amount of exercise, all
of which are necessary for the promotion of
health. Parents should therefore study the
laws of nature, and give heed thereunto,
and they will soon find that they will be
more healthy, and the more healthy the
parent the more likely will their offspring
be to enjoy the same blessing.
	Experience has demonstrated that train-
ing and educating have changed the forma-
tion of the body, and that the change thus
produced has been transmitted to the chil-
dren,—for instance, you can labor in any
branch of business, for two or three genera-
tions, enlarge or diminish any part of the
body, and it will become partly rooted in
the blood, or to such an extent that it will
frequently produce its like. So powerful
is the effect of education on the develop-
ment of the mind and body, that we can
find traits of character in the children of one
family varying according to the circumstan-
ces under which they were begotten and
matured,—for example we seldom find that
the first-born is the strongest, quickest and
most intelligent, if the rest of the children
of the same family have had equal opportu-
nities in life; but, on the contrary, few cases
can be found where the eldest child has
risen to greater eminence in society than
the younger ones of the same family, where
the attainment to such eminence has de-
pended on self-action. We find recorded
in the Bible that the Lord has oftener than
otherwise chosen those who were not the
first-born of a family as being the most
suitable to be intrusted with the care of a
people or dispensation, as with Seth, Enos,
Enoch, Lamech, Noah, Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, Joseph, Samuel, Moses, David, Solo-
mon, and others and, in this dispensation,
Joseph Smith and Brigham Young; and the
same may be said of mostly all the great
merchants, statesmen, philosophers and
others who have attained to their positions
by their own efforts. What has caused this
development? It is simply because parents
in after years, have become more careful of
their acts, more thoughtful of things of life
and less passionate.
	First-born children are often kind and af-
fectionate, and may be very intelligent and
good, but younger children of the same
family will often excel in tact and general
ability, thus showing that the cultivation
of the mind of the parents has much to do
with the physical and mental development
of the child. Can a child pass through this
life, when well developed, easier than with-
out this great blessing? It is almost need-
less for me to say yes, from the fact that we
all know how hard it is for such children to
learn at school, while others learn with the
greatest ease. It is also easier for some chil-
dren to be kind than others, more industri-
ous, more mechanical, musical and poetical
and in everything else the same. Children 
partake more or less of the traits of their
ancestors, which have been brought about
by the cultivation of the body and mind.
Such being the case, how careful parents
should be to cultivate every trait of charac-
ter in themselves that they desire to see in
their children, and strictly observe all the 
known laws of nature appertaining to the
producing of their offspring.
	I am satisfied that careful training may,
to a great extent, improve or develop any
trait that may be good, or diminish and
weaken other traits that may abound too
much, to be controled by the child. The
training of some children is much harder
than that of others and requires a greater
amount of patience on the part of the par-
ents. Parents often, according to their own
peculiar pleasure, admire traits in their
children and take great delight in bringing
them to notice, thereby causing these traits
to grow stronger with the children's mental
and physical development; but if otherwise,
and the traits in the children are not suited
to their tastes, they are often neglected and
even abused, and not unfrequently, by ill-
treatment, are driven from home; whereas,
if the truth be known to their parents, these
children have come by those traits through
either their parents or grand parents. Some
children are fretful after they come to years
of understanding, for which I believe there
are good reasons. No man or woman is fit
to become a parent while he is or she is
fretful or bad-tempered.
	I believe it to be much easier for the Qua-
kers to keep their children from going to 
was than it is to keep the children of pugil-
ists or soldiers from doing so, because of
the peculiar training or development of
their parents.
	Jealousy is a trait of character cultivated
to a great extent by all parents, and so fond
of it are parents that they will frequently
tantilize a child by putting it away, and say-
ing, "you can't come here, this is Johnny's
place" or "come here, you may have this,"
when they really intend the other child to
have it against its will, and thereby adopt
that plan of compelling the child to eat it
rather than that the other should have it.
Thus parents often cultivate traits in their
children which in after years they despise
to see, although brought about by them-
selves. Children are quick to observe, and
will, to a great extent, follow the examples
set by their parents, especially in that which
is evil. 
	How can parents expect peaceable chil-
dren if they themselves quarrel? How can
they expect their children honest if they
themselves steal? How can they expect to
have truthful children if they themselves
cultivate an untruthful spirit, and their
children know it? Parents must expect
that these traits will be transmitted to their
children, unless their circumstances in life
are such as to cause their early separation,
and the association of the children with
others, which would enable them to follow
the natural traits of their own characters.
Under the care of such parents but very lit-
tle can be expected to be imparted to their
children; and depend upon it that children, 
begotten by such parents, will have great
difficulty in overcoming the many evils in
their natures, even under the best of train-
ing. Let all men try to learn the great les-
son, namely, "First govern thyself, before
thou undertakest to govern a wife" and be-
come the father of children; and let all par-
ents try to live and cultivate themselves in
such a manner as will result in the proper
development of their children, and they
will find in after years that they will have
great joy in their labors.—ELDER JOSEPH
BIRCH, in the "Millenial Star."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MOTHERLESS.

		   SELECTED.

	A row of bright little faces,
		A patter of dear little feet
	And loving arms closely entwining,
		Mother's warm kisses to meet.
	Three little cups on the table,
		Three little chairs by the wall,
	Three little curly heads nestled,
		Each on its pillow so small.Ah! who cannot read me this riddle of joy?
They're mother's own darlings, each dear little boy.

	Three little tear-stained faces,
		Little bare unwashed feet,
	Shrinkingly, timidly stealing,
		In terror, lest blows they meet.
	Bare dry bread on the table,
		Cold hard bench by the wall,
	Straw, and a scanty torn blanket,
		That will hardly cover them all.
No kisses to-night on each little brow;
God pity and help them! They are motherless now.


R. S. REPORTS.

	MORONI, SANPETE CO., June 24th, 1874.
Dear Editor:—
    The members of the Relief Society, are
generally feeling well and ready to assist in
the great Work which lies before us. Many
deaths among the children, and a few among
adults have occurred through scarlet fever,
which, I am happy to say, has subsided.
Our Society have raised one hundred dollars
to assist in gathering the poor Saints: they
have donated upwards of forty dollars, with-
in the last few months for the benefit of those
at home who were sick and needy, and the
sisters have been very kind in visiting them
and administering to their wants. We, as
a Society, have been taking your paper and
desire to renew our subscription, wishing
the EXPONENT good success.
					JANE BAILEY.

		SPRING CITY June 9th, 1874.
Dear Editor :—
    We held our annual meeting June 4th.
It should have been May 4th, but President
Mary A. Hyde wished to attend conference,
and the sisters thought they would defer
it until her return. The transactions of the
year were reviewed, the Secretary’s, and
Treasurer’s report read, showing the Society
to be in good condition. We have done
more in the past year than in any one year
before, and all the sisters manifest a spirit
to continue in the work. President Mary
A. Hyde called a vote to see how many of
the Society were willing to join the United
Order. They were all willing to join it and
to do all the good they could. We are not
organized in it yet, as a society but will be
as soon as practicable. We are enjoying
general good health and have excellent
meetings; and hope God will bless all who
desire and seek to do good.
				P. E. Benson, Sec’y

     The Secretary writes from Fairview, San-
pete Co. The Relief Society of this place
met on the 13th of June, to celebrate their
6th anniversary. After the customary pre-
paratory proceedings, Bishop A. Tucker
expressed his satisfaction in having an op-
portunity of meeting with the society, spoke
in praise of their labors and financial con-
dition and said they had proved a blessing
to the people here. Mrs. Mary A. Prichett
was unanimously sustained as President,
Mrs Rebecca Tucker, first counselor. Mrs.
Hannah Cheeney was honorably released
from acting as second counselor on account
of old age, and Mrs. Peterson was elected in
her stead. Mrs. Tilitha Avery was sus-
tained as Secretary and Mrs. Sarah Terry as


Treasurer. A selected essay from the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT was then read followed
by poetry, remarks from the Bishop, solo on
the Organ, a general attraction to pies and
cakes, toasts and the announcement of a
dance for the evening. Meeting closed
with singing and prayer.
			MARY A. PRICHETT, Prest.
			TILITHA AVERY, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S VOICE.	

DEAR EXPONENT:—
	In reflecting on our position as the chosen
people of God, I sometimes think there are
many, especially among the young, who do
not realize the importance of living our re-
ligion strictly. If we did, fashion and pride
would have less foothold in our midst and
instead of being lifted up with pride be-
cause of our worldly possessions, the greater
our blessings the more humble we would be.
We see many of our people associating
with, and seeking the friendship of the
pleasant, agreeable gentlemen(?) who come
in our midst with the avowed intention of
doing all in their power to pull down "Mor-
monism." Some of the girls even get mar-
ried to them. Oh! girls where is your faith
in the religion you were born in or have
embraced? You know that you are casting
aside almost all hopes of an exaltation in
the Celestial Kingdom of our Heavenly
Father. You may plead the excuse that
they intend to join the Church after a while.
Then let them do so, and prove themselves
worthy of you before you risk your exalta-
tion in their hands. Better, far better be
the second wife of a good, faithful Latter-
day Saint, one that would exalt you, than
the only wife of a young man that is op-
posed to our religion, or any principle of it.
Let us not imagine, my young brethren and
sisters, that there is nothing for us to do be-
cause we are young, for such is not the case,
we will find all we can do, if we are prayer-
ful and seek to build up the Kingdom of
God. We have no time to lose in idleness;
it will take all the few years allotted to us,
to obtain an exaltation, and we should be
thankful if we can obtain it by a lifetime
devotion.					P. A. M.
	Richmond, Cache Co.


THE SEX.

	MRS. Myra Bradwell of the Chicago Le-
gal News is a Vice-President of the Illinois
State Press Association.

	MRS. Elizabeth Akers Allen (“Florence
Percy”), one of Maine’s sweetest poets, is to
spend the summer in Portland.

	MARY F. Eastman delivered the address
before the Literary Societies of Otterbein
University at Westerville, Ohio.

	THE Sorosis of New York has adopted
resolutions expressive of their esteem and
regard for their president, Mrs. C. B. Wil-
bour; who has gone on an extended Euro-
pean tour.

	A YOUNG English lady, who is not yet
twenty-three years old has painted a picture
named “Calling the Roll after an engage-
ment in the Crimea” which was placed on
exhibition at the Royal Academy, and elici-
ted special commendation.

	AT a meeting of the Mount Vernon La-
dies Association, held at Mount Vernon,
Madame Berghman, Vice-Regent for Penn-
sylvania, was unanimously elected Regent.
Her executive action during the past year


as Regent pro tem. was indorsed in compli-
mentary resolutions.

	A NEW college for the higher education of
women will be opened next September at
Northampton, Mass., with the foundation of
$358,000 left by Miss Sophia Smith. The
course is to cover four years and the exam-
inations for admission to be equivalent to
those at Brown and Amherst colleges.

	ACCORDING to the new Year Book there
are at present fifty-nine ladies in the differ-
ent departments of Boston University, ex-
clusive of those in the preparatory depart-
ments. They are distributed as follows:
in the College of Liberal Arts 4, in the Col-
lege of Music 9, in the School of Law 1, in
the School of Oratory 15, in the School of
Medicine 30.

	MRS. Vassail, who died lately at Worces-
ter, was a sister of Miss Clara Barton, and
was the first Northern woman who welcomed
the Old Sixth at Washington after its fa-
mous march through Baltimore. She lived
at Washington all through the war, and de-
voted herself to the soldiers in the hospitals,
where undoubtedly she contracted the dis-
ease which caused her death. The Univer-
salist society of Washington have passed
resolutions of sorrow at her death.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	JOHNNY was telling his ma how he was
going to dress and show off when he was a
man. His ma asked “Johnny, how do
you expect to get your living when you are
a man?” “Well,” said Johnny, “I’ll get
married, and live with my wife's pa."
	"WON'T you ever tell?" whispered a girl
to a group of playmates,
	“No, no; only my mother,” answered a
third.
	“But you must not tell her,”
	“I will not hear what my mother may
not know,” she replied, and withdrew. And
that girl was safe.
	COL. Tom Scot was hailed on the street,
lately by a little bootblack with; "Boss, have
yer boots shined?" The Col. pleasantly shook
his finger at him, saying. "My boy, I'm no
boss." The little waif swung his box over
his shoulder, and eyeing him from head to
foot, replied: "You'r boss of yer boots, ain't
you?"
	HOW touchingly beautiful this is! Three
little New Hampshire girls, not long since,
lost their mother by death. Hearing that a
lady friend of the family was dying, these
three little children went to their grand-
mother, called her aside, and whispered in
her ear: "Mrs. — is dying, and we want
you to go and tell her to give our best love
to our mother.
	A SCHOOL girl of one of the rural dis-
tricts of Ohio, was heard trying to convince
a school boy that she liked him better than
she did some other urchin of whom he seem-
ed jealous. "Of course I like you better than
I do Bill," said she, "for don't I miss words
in my spelling lesson on purpose, so as to
be down to the foot of the class where you
are?"
	AT a school examination, one of the visi-
tors made a brief address to the pupils on
the necessity of obeying their teachers and
growing up loyal and useful citizens. To
give emphasis to his remarks, he pointed
to a large national flag on one side of the
room and enquired, "Boys, what is that
flag for?" A little urchin who understood
the condition of the house better than the
speaker, promptly answered, "To cover up
the dirt, sir."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES
	ADVANTAGES AND BEST METHOD OF
WALKING.—The special advantages of walk-
ing, as an exercise, are many. Perhaps the
most important is that it takes us out of
doors, and keeps us there in the pure air and
bright sunshine. The exercise, which is
gentle and prolonged, increases not only the
frequency but the fulness of respiration, thus
bringing a much larger quantity of oxygen
into the lungs and through them, to the
blood, thereby giving the finishing touch to
the process of digestion and vitalizing “the
red current of life.” Another advantage
to respiration is this:—When a person is sit-
ting or standing still, the exhaled air from
the lungs, which is unfit to be breathed
again, fills the space about the face, and a
portion of it is taken into the lungs at the
next breath; especially is this the case if the
head is bent forward; but when a person is
walking and expels the air from his lungs,
his head is carried past the expired air be-
fore he draws in another breath, and thus
he gets a supply of pure air, with its full
proportion of oxygen, at every inspiration,
and thus is the vigor and vivacity which re-
sults from exercise in the open air partially
accounted for. Walking is very beneficial
to the digestive organs, by the gentle yet
constant motion which it imparts to them,
and which is essential to their long-con-
tinued healthful action. It brings into ac-
tion and properly develops more muscles
than any other mode of exercise. It also
tends to equalize the circulation of blood.
	One great objection to walking is that it
takes so much time. True, it takes some
time; more, as a general thing, than it does
to ride: but so does the accomplishment of
anything desirable; and is not good health
desirable? In the end, however, it results
in the saving of time, by preserving the
health and increasing the vigor of all the
physical and mental functions. In no way
is there so much time wasted, to say nothing
of vitality, as in being ill; and yet people
are unwilling to give a little time to keep-
ing well!
	To obtain the greatest amount of good
from walking, it must, like everything else,
be done right. In the first place, it is al-
ways best to have some definite object in
view when going out to walk, some particu-
lar place or object of interest to see, some
purpose to accomplish, or some friend to
visit, and not walk merely for the purpose
of walking, if any other object can be at-
tained at the same time. But better walk
without any object than not walk at all. The
position of the body while walking is of
great importance. The body should incline
slightly forward from the hips, if walking
slowly, and the inclination should increase
according to the rapidity of the walk. The
head should be kept on a line with the body,
the shoulders and hips held back, and the
chest unimpeded in its action by tight cloth-
ing or otherwise. The arms should be al-
lowed to swing freely at the side. The res-
piration should be carried on entirely through
the nostrils, and not through the mouth. In
commencing a long walk, walk slowly at
first, and gradually increase the speed. In-
valids, and persons whoare unaccustomed to
walking, should begin with short walks, be-
ing careful not to overdo, and increase the
distance their as strength and endurance in-
crease. Any one who will practise this pre-
cept—never ride when you can just as well
walk—will not only be more vigorous and
healthy but will accomplish far more than
he or she otherwise would.

	SIMPLE REMEDIES FOR DIARREA:—Ripe
fruits and berries, slightly acid, will remove
the ordinary diarreas of early summer.
	Common rice, parched brown like coffee,
and then boiled and eaten in the ordinary
way, without any other food, is, with per-
fect quietude of body, one of the most ef-
fective remedies for troublesome looseness
of the bowels.
	Some of the severest forms of that dis-
tressing ailment called dysentery, when
the bowels pass blood, with constant desire
and vain efforts to stool, are sometimes en-
tirely cured by the patient eating at the time
a heaping tablespoonful of raw beef, cut up
very fine, and repeated at intervals of four
hours, until cured, eating and drinking
nothing else in the meanwhile.—Halls'
Jour. of Health.


﻿DIVERSIONS.

	CAN a lover be called a suitor when he
doesn’t suit her?
	THE “refined young man” has been fined
the second time.
	A PAPER that has many fine points.—A
paper of needles.
	NO professional man lives so much from
hand to mouth as a Dentist.
	HOW to turn people’s heads.—Come into a
concert late with creaky boots.
	HONEST ducks dip their heads under wa-
ter to liquidate their little bills.
	WHERE is the man who can always get
bread when he needs (kneads) it?—You
will find him in the baker.
	TWO young ladies of La Crosse were stand-
ing by the side of a ditch, 13 feet wide,
which they didn’t know how to cross, when
their escort said, “snakes!” and they cleared
it at a bound.
	IT was expected when Anna Dickinson
rode to the top of Pike’s Peak, that she
would have made a speech on the occasion;
but it seems that, for once, she was willing
to let Pike speak alone.
	“THE arrangements of nature are admir-
able,” exclaimed a young lady during the
late high winds. “The same wind which
disarranges our dress blows dust into the
eyes of the would-be observers.”
	A SCHOOL-GIRL, during her examination,
repeatedly miscalled patriarchs partridges,
whereupon one of the auditors remarked,
“She is making game of patriarchs.” This,
Sydney Smith said, was the most perfect
pun he knew.
	A TALKATIVE man annoyed a lady at a
dinner party by constantly arguing in fa-
vor of strong drink, and at last said to her,
“You know, madam, that drinking drives
away cares, and makes us forget what is dis-
agreeable. Would you not allow a man to
drink for that reason?” “Well, perhaps so,”
said the lady, “if he sat next to you!”
	AN inebriate, some little while back, got
into a car, and became very troublesome and
annoying to the other passengers, so much
so that it was proposed to eject him; but a
kind-hearted and reverend doctor, who was
also a passenger, interposed for him, and
soothed him into good behavior for the re-
mainder of the journey. Before leaving;
however, he scowled upon the other occu-
pants, and uttered some words of contempt,
but shook hands warmly with the doctor,
and said, “Good-day, my friend; I see you
know what it is to be drunk.”
	THERE is a woman in London who cannot
[right column]
speak without rhyming. The effect of this
when she is attending to the ordinary house-
hold duties, must often be remarkable. It
is, we suppose, something like this:—“Mary
Jane, go right up stairs, and sweep, and
make the bed, and do it quickly, too, d’ye
hear! or else I’ll punch your head.” Or
this;—“It would give me, Matilda, enor-
mous relief, if you’d cook those potatoes
and greens with the beef.” Or this;—“Al-
phonso, you are eating now your fifteenth
currant cake! the next thing you’ll be howl-
ing with a frightful stomach ache.” Or
this;—“Louisa, put your bustle on, and get
your woolen shawl, and come with me to
Mrs. J’s to make a little call; it makes no
difference, my child, what bonnet you may
wear, but, for gracious’ sake, Louisa, comb
and frizz your hair."
	ON the evening train from Albany, re-
cently, was a woman bound for Westfield,
who persisted in requesting the affable con-
ductor to inform her when Chester was
reached. Every time when the conductor
passed through the car, he was greeted
with: “Please tell me when we get to Ches-
ter.” Courteous man though he is, even
his patience was finally exhausted, and he
politely requested the unfortunate female to
maintain silence, as he had heard and would
heed her injunction. Chester was finally
reached, and “Chester” was yelled at the
car door. The train again started, and the
conductor mounted the car in which was his
persecutor. “Will you tell me when we
get to Chester?” she said. “This is Ches-
ter,” he exclaimed, and, grasping the bell-
rope; he had the train back up to the station.
“I’m real glad you obliged me,” said the
daughter of Eve to the exasperated conduc-
tor “My husband used to live here.”
	MAX Adeler says: We learn from an ex-
change that “The Legislature of Massachu-
setts has lately passed a law making it nec-
essary that a dozen eggs weigh one and one-
half pounds.” We approve of this. The
hens have too long had their own way in
this business of laying eggs, and they have
constantly defrauded the public. It is high
time this outrage was crushed, and we are
glad that the Legislature of Massachusets
is going to do it. If free American citizens
are to be imposed upon with impunity by
debauched and corrupt chickens, the gov-
ernment for which William Penn fought
and John Hancock died, is a disgraceful
failure. Hereafter Massachusetts hens will
either have to lay two ounce eggs or emi-
grate. The people will submit to their tyr-
ranny no longer. They have borne the yolk
until it has become unendurable. They de-
nounce present eggs as eggstortion, and
hens they demand a reform with the deter-
mination to draw up this chicken bill and
pullet through the legislature.


THE wife of Marshal Bazaine is a volun-
tary prisoner, under exactly the same regu-
lations as her husband. She is a Mexican,
with dark, lustrous eyes, eyebrows beauti-
fully curved, mouth indicating unusal reso-
lution, a radiant, lovely face, tinged with
carmine, and lips like cherries. She said:
“When I married the Marshal I was seven-
teen. He was at the summit of power,
with fortune and friends to support his fu-
ture, and not a shadow to overcast it. He
gave me that bright and enviable position,
and when power and friends have vanished,
my place is by his side, to share the crust of
bread and all the privations with the same
devotion and affection that were due to him
in the zenith of his prosperity.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
L. GREENE RICHARDES, Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1 00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space,  one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
      Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p m. on Mondays and Fridays.
   Address all business communications to
		Publishers Woman's Exponent,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. July 1, 1874.


﻿FLORAL HINTS.

WALKS AND TALKS AMONG THE FLOWERS.

DEAR EXPONENT:—
	In our last “talk” we were planting the
seeds of flowers which are now well up, no
doubt; so a few hints as to management will
be quite proper and we hope acceptable. In
the selection of flowers, for either house or
garden culture, preference should, in most
cases, be given to those yielding an agreea-
ble odor, providing the bloom is reasonably
showy, or the plant interesting.
	Among those very fragrant, and also
showy, suited for either out or indoor cul-
ture, the double Ten-weeks Stock is fore-
most, and of easy culture. If planted too
thick, transplant to six inches apart. If you
desire to save seeds, leave the single, bloom-
ing near the double ones until seed is ripe.
These seeds will produce again, both single
and double. If you do not care for seeds,
destroy the single flowering when they 
bloom. Of this flower there are great vari-
eties of color; to-day we counted eight
shades of color in our bed of stocks.
The Verbena, with its thousand shades
and colors, is a very interesting plant for
both garden and pot culture,  is easily raised
—generally fragrant and will bloom all the
year round—grows readily from layers, or
slips and blooms directly. Every lady should
have a bed or border of Vebenas through
the summer and in autumn: select the sorts
most desirable and pot for winter blooming.
	Mignonette, (Reseda Odorata,) though it
gives no beauty of bloom, yields a powerful
fragrance and is considered indispensable to
the bouquet,grows well in pots or outdoors.
For winter use should be sown in autumn.
	Portulacca or moss rose(?)—with its sever-
al shades of color, is a desirable plant, in-
doors or out, or for the hanging basket.
Start seeds in a pot, keep damp and shaded.
It may be safely transplanted, and makes a
fresh, gay appearance.
	Astors are in great variety of color, size
and shape; very showy, and may be trans-
planted successfully with care; are better for
the garden than for house culture as their
period of bloom is comparitively short.
	Phlox, (Drumondii) is a lovely annual, of
easy culture and great variety and profusion
of bloom; should be grown outdoors in beds
or masses, plants a few inches apart, assisted
by sticks to keep upright; blooms a long
time, very showy and fragrant.
	Nasturtian, (Indian Cress) annual, plants
to be placed ten inches a part; handsome fo-
liage, flowers rich and various in color; the
seed or fruit when green and tender makes
the most delicate pickles; keep it up with
sticks or brush.
	Ice, or Dew plant, is one of the richest
for hanging baskets, a rapid grower, annual.
There are many varieties. Some native
sorts grow around Utah Lake. Some vari-
eties have a more icy look than others.
They all grow well as garden or pot plants.
The variety generally known as Dew plant,
will grow a yard long if well cared for.
	China Pinks and Hadwigii are perennials,
blooming the first year; nice garden or house
plants, constant bloomers, in endless variety
and gay enough; plant ten inches apart, cut
off the blossom stems as soon as out of bloom.
They are of the very easiest culture and
perfectly hardy.
	Pansies must have a shaded, moist situa-
tion to thrive in summer. They are indeed
beautiful, propagated from end or division
of the roots. They bloom in every variety
of shade and make lovely pot plants. They
like a humid atmosphere, and pine in a hot,
dry one.
	Geraniums, Pelargoniums and Fuchsias
are more expensive and less common plants,
and especially the last named is more ten-
der and needs greater care. It is generally
cheaper to obtain these from florists than
to raise them unless it be from cuttings.
	The Oleander is a tender house-plant and
the bloom very showy and fragrant. The
red and white, most common, may be easily
rooted from tender cuttings about six inches
long. Cut off the lower leaves, and with a
sharp knife slit the bark at the bottom in
several places; place in the mouth of a bot-
tle with stem half an inch in the water;
stand in the shade till the roots are two in-
ches long, then carefully pot.
	Tie Dahlias to smooth stakes as soon as
they get well up, and continue to tie as they
grow, trimming off all suckers and lower
branches.
	The Maderia vine is one of the sweetest,
most graceful and beautiful flowering plants
of all climbers.
			More anon.		FLORA.
	P. S. First apricots and apples we picked
to-day—Raspberries and gooseberries begin
to ripen. You see, woman like, I had to
add a postscript, but I’ll mind I don’t next
time.							F.


AN ENTERPRISING LADY.

	A fine collection of curiosities, specimens of
minerals, animals, birds, shells, etc. have been
made by Mrs. Maxwell, of Colorado Territory,
chiefly through her own exertions. This collec-
tion under the name of the Rocky Mountain
Museum, is now thrown open to the public.
	While recently taking a glance, at our City
Museum, the gentlemanly manager, Prof. J.
L. Barfoot, in the course of the conversation
spoke of the enterprising spirit and ability of
Mrs. Maxwell with whom he has had some ac-
quantance—especially refering to her as a nat-
uralist and one skilled in taxidermy, or the
art of preserving the skins of animals, birds,
etc. so as to give them the appearance of life.
He showed us some specimens of stuffed na-
tive birds, prepared by this lady, which evin-
ced skill and fine artistic taste. Following we
give a paragraph taken from the Boulder
County (Col.) News, of the 5th ult., and de-
scriptive of the opening of Mrs. Maxwell’s
Museum.

	“The event of the week was the opening,
last evening, of the Rocky Mountain Museum,
an occasion celebrated with flags and music as
befitted an occurance so significant of benefit
to this country. The Boulder Brass Band, and
the String Band were out. The exhibition it-
self caused quite a sensation, the collection of
curiosities and specimens being unexpectedly
full and fine. Mrs. Maxwell is indefatigable


in her profession as a taxidermist and collector
in natural history. As one of the visitors last
evening enthusiastically remarked, “Why she
has everything in air, sea, earth, or under the
earth imaginable." It is well called the Rocky
Mountain Museum, as she and her assistant,
Prof. Glass, have laid the whole Rocky Moun-
tain region under representation of fauna, fos-
sils, and minerals. Her visit to the Pacific
coast last season was for the express purpose of
collecting for this Museum, relics, curious spec-
imens, and objects of interest in natural his-
tory, and it is wonderful how much her tact
and energy has accomplished. Every beast of
the forest and plain, from the big buffalo and
huge cinnamon, to the field mouse and mole;
every bird of the air; rare fishes and shells from
the seas; barbarian armor and relics; and name-
less things, arranged with infinite patience and
cunning art. One said the collection is now as
good as Wood’s Museum, of Chicago, was be-
fore the great fire destroyed it, except in big
fossil specimens. It is sarcasticly suggested
that the big fossils can be supplied from ’bout
here.”


A NEW ADDITION.

	Our many friends, personal and otherwise,
will doubtless be gratified to learn of our con-
tinued good fortune; and every true woman,
especially hopeful young mothers, upon read-
ing this, will be able to sympathize with us in
the pleasure and gratitude we feel in making
the following announcement. To-day—we write
upon on date of Saturday, June 27th—at twen-
ty-six minutes past five a. m. a new addition
was made to the editorial family of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT in the form of a fine little
daughter. We also deem that we will be con-
sidered excusable for presenting to our readers
the following lines, addressed to our worthy
husband, Mr. Levi Willard Richards, upon
this occasion.

				OUR OWN.

Yours and mine, dearest—how the Lord blesses
Those who but trust to His care!
Where is the monarch or queen who possesses,
A token more dainty and rare?
Our own little one, our beautiful treasure,  
So holy and sacred and pure!	
Ah who! who would not for such infinit pleasure
The risks and the trials endure?
Lay her up close to me, sit here beside me,
Nay! Do not take her away!
"Talking too much dear?" please do not chide me,
Stay not sweet impulse to-day.
Let’s talk of our own, our blessed, God-given,
And pray in our hearts all the while,
That we may have wisdom to lead her to heaven,
To keep her from sorrow and guile.
To keep her! Ah yes, until time shall surround her
With jewels through faithfulness won,
Till angels of light shall with glory have crowned her,
Declaring her mission well done.
I deem her not sweeter, or brighter, or fairer,
Than other fond parents have known; 
Or that the event of her coming is rarer—
'Tis only this, SHE IS OUR OWN!


THE POLAND BILL.

	The forty-third Congress adjourned “sine
die” on the 23rd of June. One of its last acts
was to pass a bill introduced by Mr. Poland, of
Vermont, entitled “An act in relation to courts
and judicial officers in the Territory of Utah.”
This was one of the too numerous proscriptive
and unjust bills for the regulation (?) of affairs
in this Territory, which were intruded on the
attention of our national law-making body dur-
ing its late session. But we are happy to say that
it was so amended that many of its worst fea-
tures were left out by the time it passed through
both houses. It has been freely commented on
by the local and general press, and at present,
with our limited space, we do not feel like say-
ing more about a measure, the wisdom and jus-
tice of which we are not able to discern.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EXPLANATION.

	We hope our kind readers will readily excuse
the lateness of the present issue, when we offer
in explanation that we, in consequence of ill-
ness, are now unable to write except by dicta-
ing to another, and we were disappointed in
not having editorial assistance upon which we
had depended. Added to this Miss Horne, the
Business Manager, is still suffering from a se-
vere jar caused by the upsetting of a coach on
which she was riding. These causes may affect
the punctuality of the succeeding number, but
we hope not, for, regretting the delay as much
as our readers, we mean to have it out to time
if possible.


﻿NEW EXCHANGE.

	We take pleasure in placing the “Beaver
Enterprise” on our list of exchanges. It is
edited by Daniel Tyler not David, as incor-
rectly stated, through misinformation, in our
notice of the recent editorial change at the of-
fice of that paper. As a regular visitor, we feel
to welcome the “Enterprise” and trust it will
prove a success as long as it aims to be an able
advocate for, and defender of the best interests
of the people.


MADE A CITIZEN.

	We learn from the Salt Lake "Herald" that
Mrs. Elsa Johnson—a Swedish lady—was nat-
uralized in the Third District Court, on the 17th
ult,. and according to that spicy paper, "The
lady answered the questions in Judge
McKean's polygamic catechism without flinch-
ing."
	This, so far as we are aware, is the first in-
stance of the naturalization of a lady in this
Territory, but we see no reason why women
should not take advantage of the naturaliza-
tion law as well as men, when they would be
benefited by so doing.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UNITED Order is said to be working well
in Beaver county and in the southern part of
Utah.
	ALL MAIL matter for Cache and Box Elder
counties is now carried by the Utah Northern 
Railroad.
	THE LADIES of Provo have petitioned the
city council to prohibit the sale of intoxicating
drinks except for medicinal purposes. 
	ELDERS DAVID McKenzie, John Henry
Smith, L. John Nuttall and Peter St. Clair
left on the 29th ult. to fulfil missions in Europe
	WE LEARN from the Deseret News that
"Bro. Horace S. Eldrege has a large quantity
of rye straw, which Relief Society ladies and
others desiring to braid can obtain by calling
upon him, free of charge."
	AN EARTHQUAKE, though not a severe one,
was plainly felt by many in this city on the
night of June 17th. The shock, though
rather light, was also felt in Weber and Summit
counties.
	A GRANITE POST, prepared by Morris and
Evans, is to be placed in the Great Salt Lake 
near Clinton's Hotel about a mile from Black
Rock. Its purpose is to denote the rise or fall
of the lake which is said to have become con-
siderably higher since the country was first
settled.
	THE OFFICES of City Water Master and Su-


pervisor of streets have formerly been held by
one person, but the duties of each having
grown so numerous and important as to require
the attention of one person alone, Mr. Wm.
Hyde has been appointed supervisor, Mr. Isaac
Groo retaining the office of general water mas-
ter.


UTAH EDUCATIONAL BUREAU.

    This organization, established in the in-
terests of education in Utah, proposes to act
as an agency for all kinds of educational in-
telligence. It will furnish information;—to
school officers, who want qualified teachers;
to teachers who want suitable positions; to
schools, needing furniture and apparatus,
concerning the most approved and suitable
styles, either of eastern or home manufac-
ture; to Literary Societies and Sunday
schools, wanting suitable books for their li-
braries; concerning the location, character,
and facilities of the principle institutions of
learning in the United States; concerning
the importation of foreign books for public
or private libraries, free of duty; concern-
ing the titles, authors, and publishers of the
principal works extant on almost every sub-
ject; also in relation to appropriate, and
economical plans and architectural designs
for all kinds of school buildings.
    Persons having remainders, or lots of
books, or any rare, standard, or curious work
to part with, may find sale for them through
the Bureau.
    The Bureau will also make out lists of ap-
propriate books for general and special libra-
ries.
	OF SPECIAL IMPORTANCE TO SCHOOL
		OFFICERS AND TEACHERS.
	The Bureau proposes to open communica-
tion with teachers out of employment or
desiring a change of location, and with
trustees and other school officers wishing to
engage a teacher. The object of the Bu-
reau, in this respect, is mutual accommoda
tion and benefit to employers and employed;
that teachers may obtain positions best sui-
ted to their abilities, and that every school
may secure a suitable teacher.
    The design is to represent,. in every re-
spect, the whole Territory. No responsi-
bility, however, will be taken by the Bureau,
in supplying teachers and positions, beyond
placing such applicants found on its register
in communication with such others as are
deemed most nearly suited to their require-
ments. To cover expenses, a charge of two
and a half dollars will be made for, and
must accompany each application.

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR POSITION AS
			TEACHER.

      Applicants will answer the following
			questions.
1. What is your age?
2. Where educated?
3. What branches can you teach? (Under-
        score branches in which you are specially
	proficient.)
4. Have you taught?
5. If so, how long and where?
6. Are you married or single?
7. If a church member, of what denomina-
	tion?
8. What salary do you expect?
9. The lowest you will accept?
10. Have you preference as to locality?
11. When can you commence?
12. What certificates or recommendations do
	you hold?
13. What references can you give? (Give
	names and address in full.)
14. For how long will you engage?
  FORM OF APPLICATION FOR A TEACHER.
	Applicants will answer the following
			questions. 
1. The name and locality of school?
2. What branches to be taught?
3. Is a lady or gentleman wanted?
4. Have you preference as to age?
5. What is the average number of pupils and
	their age?
6. What salary will you pay?
7. How is it to be paid?
8. Is board included?
9. If without board, what does board cost?
10. Must the teacher be a church member; if
	so, of what denomination?
11. How long will you engage?
12. When must the teacher commence?
13. Will you pay traveling expenses?
	Too full particulars cannot be given.
  Applicants will remain three months on
the register of the Bureau, unless sooner filled.
Address—
				JOHN R. PARK,
				   University of Deseret,
					     SALT LAKE CITY.
  Preserve this for future reference.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	The breweries of Great Britain consume
nearly 60,000,000 pounds of sugar annually.
	IN Scotland the salaries of certificated
teachers are, for men $550 a year, and $290
for women.
	EASTON, Pa., has 800 marriageable young
ladies, for whom there are no visible pros-
spective husbands.
	FIFTY thousand pounds of sugar from 1,
000 trees have been made by Mr. Slayton
of Stowe, Vt.
	THE statistics of the United States Pa-
tent Office show that the inventive genius
of Connecticut is unrivaled. More patents,
in proportion to the population, being issued
to that State than to any other. Massachu-
setts ranks next, then Rhode Island, New
York and New Jersey.
	HOW WOMEN VOTE IN ENGLAND.—The
London "Examiner" says: "In sixty-six
municipal elections, out of every 1000 wo-
men who enjoy equal rights with men on
the register, 516 went to the polls, which
is but 48 less than the proportionate num-
ber of men. And out of 27,949 women
registered, where a contest occurred, 14, 416
voted. Of men there were 166,781 on the
register, and 90,080 at the poll." The "Ex-
aminer" thereupon draws this conclusion:
"Making allowance for the reluctance of old
spinsters to change their habits and the
more frequent illness of the sex, it is mani-
fest that women do exercise the franchise as
freely as men. 
	ORIGIN OF THE DOLLAR-MARK.—We
suppose the following theories upon the ori-
gin of the dollar-mark are all that can be ad-
vanced.
	First—It is a combination of U.S., the in-
itials of the United States.
	Second—That it is a modification of the
figure 8, the dollar formerly being called a
piece of eight.
	Third—That it is a combination of P. and
S, from the peso dura, signifying hard dol-
lar. 
	Fourth—that it is derived from the repre-
sentation of the "Pillars of Hercules," con-
sisting of two pillars connected with a
scroll.
	Fifth—That it is a combination of H S.,
the mark of the Roman money unit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NATURE'S WORSHIP.

	 BY J. G. WHITTIER.

The harp at Nature's advent strung
Has never ceased to play;
The song the stars of morning sung
Has never died away.

And prayer is made, and praise is given,
By all things near and far;
The ocean looketh up to heaven
And mirrors every star.

Its waves are kneeling on the strand,
As kneels the human knee,
Their white locks bowing to the sand,
The priesthood of the sea!

They pour their glittering treasures forth,
Their gifts of pearls they bring,
And all the listening hills of earth
Take up the song they sing.

The green earth sends her incense up
From many a mountain shrine:
From folded leaf and dewy cup
She pours her sacred wine.

The mists above the morning rills
Rise white as wings of prayer;
The altar curtains of the hills
Are sunset's purple air.

The winds with hymns of praise are loud,
Or low with sounds of pain;
The thunder organ of the cloud,
The dropping tears of rain.

With drooping head and branches crossed,
The twilight forest grieves,
Or speaks with tongues of pentecost
From all its sunlit leaves.

The blue sky is the temple arch,
Its transept, earth and air,
The music of its starry march
The chorus of a prayer.

So Nature keeps the reverent frame
With which her years began,
And all her signs and voices shame
The prayerless heart of man.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Hints on Domestic Economy.—There is no fea-
ture of domestic economy so much neglected by
housewives as the economy of time. My own ex-
perience has taught, and teaches me, that it is too
apt to be one of the last of the economies thought
of by the housewife. I know that time is the one
item of which the most is wasted, and which, if
economized as it should be, would and does afford
the hard-worked, careful housewife the most direct
relief of any measure yet invented. So thoroughly
do I know this, that one of my first efforts, when I
get "a new girl" to help me, is to teach her the or-
der in which I want my work done, and to see that
she does nothing out of that order!
	Some of my good sisters will ask, "How do you
do it?" I do it by overseeing the work myself,
by directing and aiding in its performance, and by
practicing what I preach. Only one thing is at-
tempted or done at a time. As soon as the bed-
rooms are empted of their occupants, myself or my
girl, open the windows and toss up the beds to be
aired. Meantime one of us attends to the break-
fast and does nothing else. The preparations for
breakfast, so far as practicable, are made the night
before. The table is laid in the dining room, and
the vegetables and meats prepared. Breakfast
over the first thing is to wash the dishes and lay the
table for dinner, preparing such food as requires a
long time to cook for that meal. Then the cham-
ber work is done—slops emptied, and everything
that pertains to chamber work is completed.
Other rooms are then put to rights. If there is
washing to do, the clothes are put in soak the night
before, and with my washing machine and wringer,
the work is quickly performed; but it is never
commenced until the breakfast things are out of
the way, and the chamber and room-work done.
Specific hours are devoted to sewing. They come
in their order. If not completed in the hours set
aside for it a gain on other work is made. The
[right column]
sewing is not allowed to infringe upon the necessary
daily work which ministers to the comfort and
health of the family.
	By such system I find that I have time for all
the work the housewife ought to be expected to do.
If more help is necessary to do any class of work,
I insist upon having it just as my husband insists
upon having help in the harvest field when his crops
are ripe. If it seems to cost extra, there is extra
gain. My work is never behind. It is not allowed
to be so. It is economy not to have it so. I ac-
complish far more, and it costs far less for help
than it did when I followed the hap-hazzard way
of working. Of course it requires the co-opera-
tion of the men-folk; but I have yet to learn that a
systematic wife and mother cannot teach her hus-
band, sons and daughters to be systematic.—R.
N. Y.
	Preparing for Company.—In preparing for com-
pany look more to their comfort and entertainment
than to your reputation as a housekeeper. If they
are true friends, or have much regard for you,
they will rather have plain fare and know that you
are enjoying their society, than to fare sumptuously
and be entertained in elaborate style, and know
that you are anxious and worried and that their
presence is a burden to you. If they are of that
class who visit you merely for the sake of criticising
or commenting upon your household arrangements
and manner of living, or for their own personal
gratification, it were better that you should give
them a short cut, and not entertain them at all.
	Testing Molassess.—It is asserted that much of
the syrup molasses in common use is a poisonous
compound, composed of rags and sawdust decom-
posed by muriatic acid, and so prepared as to look
and taste like the best syrup. This counterfeit
syrup can be readily detected by putting a tea-
spoonful in a cup of strong tea. If the syrup con-
tains acid it immediately combines with the tannin
of the tea and makes a black, dirty looking mix-
ture. The bottom of the teacup, after standing a
while, is covered with black dregs resembling dust
from old cloth. Those who use syrup should be
on the watch for this injurious article, which is
doubtless innocently sold by many storekeepers.


﻿TWO HEROINES.

	A gentle little quakeress, now in the Treasury,
saved the Union troops at Winchester.    Her fam-
ily was the only loyal family in the town, and
Sheridan, in sore need, determined to risk the
chance of reaching them, asking for any informa-
tion they could give about the rebels. So he dis-
patched an old negro to the house. When the
messenger arrived this girl was the only one at the
house, Appreciating the need of promptness she
wrote a full and accurate account of the enemie’s po-
sition and resources. She folded her message in a
little ball of tin-foil, and made the colored man
carry it under his tongue. She dispatched him at
midnight, and beyond the success of the battle
next day, she heard nothing from her distinguished
correspondent for months. War seldom respects
the courtesies of life; but the first leisure moment
that General Sheridan had he sent her a beautiful
watch with an inscription testifying his gratitude in
very complimentary terms; and dangling from the
chain is a tiny gold cavalry sabre that can be drawn
out of its sheath.
	In the same department there was another hero-
ine who was one of the few loyal inhabitants of
Richmond when the days were darkest for North-
ern people. The horrors of Libby prison were
unmitigated, and every effort to relieve the wretch-
ed victims exposed the helpers to equal hardships.
Notwithstanding this vigilance four of the prison-
ers managed by chance to partially excavate a pas-
sage for escape, when suspicion was aroused and
their plan threatened with discovery. The inevita-
ble consequence would be death of course. Even
if they could have got out of the prison, their con-
dition would not have been much better, for they


would have been utter strangers to the country. In
this extremity the news of her compatriots’ peril
was brought to this brave woman. She sent them
word that if they could get outside of the wall by
the earliest dawn the following day she would guide
them safely. They worked you may be sure. Poor
creatures, it was life itself they were working for,
and in the faint gray cold morning light their eyes
fell upon a tall, handsome market woman who sig-
nalled them to follow her. They did.
	She walked boldly along the highway with her
basket of vegetables in her hand, they creeping
stealthily through the brambles in woods that skir-
ted the road. And so she guided them twelve
miles—remember they were men whom she had
never seen before, and to serve them she was aban-
doning her husband and her home, for there was
no going back to Richmond after that. They all
reached the Union lines safely, and subsequently
one hundred and five more escaped by the same
subterranean passage. Her husband rejoined her
shortly; the men she never has heard of again nor
would she know them if she did. They never saw
her face nor she theirs.—“Washington Cor., Inter-
Ocean."


FLOWERS.
	PROVERBS are the children of Experi-
ence.
	GOOD humor is the girdle that binds
friendship to love.
	IT is a short step from modesty to humil-
ity; but a shorter one from vanity to folly.
	READING makes a full man; conversation,
a ready man; and writing, an exact man.
	AFFECTION can scarcely be excited, and
certainly cannot long subsist unless it is
founded on esteem.
	REVENGE is a kind of wild justice, which
the more man's nature runs to, the more
ought law to weed it out.
	NEXT to the sweetness of having a friend
whom you can trust is that of having a 
friend who will trust you.
	PLEASURE loves the garden and  flow-
ers; labor the fields and the grain; devotion
loves the mountains and the skies.
	THERE is a deportment which suits the
figure and talents of each person; it is al-
ways lost when we quit it to assume that of
another.—Rousseau.
	ACTIONS speak more forcibly than words;
they are the tests of character. Like fruit
upon the tree, they show the nature of the
man; while motives, like the sap are hidden
from our view.
	SAVE SOMETHING.—Whatsoever your in-
come may be, try and save something. A
ribbon less, a jewel less, a silk dress less, ac-
cording to  your style of living, will never
hurt you; and a little put by, now, and then,
will make a tidy sum after a few years.
	FALSE pride keeps many a man in anxiety.
His income allows a moderate style of liv-
ing, but he is ashamed of living within it.
He must be stylish. So there is neither
peace in his heart nor rest in his brain, and
bills he cannot pay are forever becoming
due, and duns are forever at his door.
	ANGER.—There is a noble and an ignoble
anger. There are moments and situations
in life when one requires a burst of anger
to be able to grapple powerfully and lend
justice a strong helping hand. But such
moments come seldom; and the danger of
falling, in the annoyances and little vexa-
tions of everyday life from a noble to an ig-
noble anger, is so great, that we ought to do
all we can to govern this emotion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
    ACQUIRING AND IMPARTING
		   KNOWLEDGE.

	"How can we attain to knowledge?" is
the question that is asked by the millions. 
In order to meet our anticipations or expec-
tations, we must consider economy in all its
bearings—economy of time, economy of
labor, economy of material, economy of
dress, economy of outward and inward re-
sources; all will add more less to our acqui-
sitions.
	Time is the great ocean that spreads be-
yond our conception, and it is only known
by man while his earthly existence lasts,
and short is his duration. The brain is the
compass, as man travels the great ocean of
life; and thinking is the main key to unlock
the store house of knowledge. Knowledge
is power, and having power sufficient, we
could live eternally: but in the great wis-
dom of God, He has decreed that we should
be limited in this power, by certain fixed
laws, otherwise, we would thwart His pur-
poses. We were deprived of the know-
ledge  to acquire knowledge by application
and observation, through the faculties of the
brain—the intuitive faculties which God has
given us as tools or means by which we can
attain to knowledge, and live eternally.
The mind commenced its expansion, as the
body expands, from its infancy, yet there
are children whom nature has denied abili-
ties. We can only pity their condition.
No teacher need expect to succeed in such
instances. Physicians are not supposed to
supply brains in an empty skull, much less
a tutor. Still there are resources to an al-
most entirely inactive brain, and encourage-
ment is the great whet-stone that will
brighten and give new life to a brain that
would otherwise sleep the sleep of years.
But neglected or abused, like a hidden bul-
let in a wound, it heals up and becomes cal-
loused over, and wonted to its destined fate.
In such a case, let the tutor probe the wound
and give the stolid portion of the mind a
chance for an exit. Then to the remaining
skeleton apply restoratives. Show it how
to climb the smooth or rugged cliff, and not
say "There is the lesson, learn it!" with
emphasis to every word, leaving the child
with an idea of an impossibility. Remove
the doubt, and explain that only little is re-
quired at first, that large oaks grow from
small acorns, little drops make the ocean,
and seconds of time eternities. Teach the
child "love" in its first lessons; to love home
and its surroundings and everything good.
Hence the necessity of making every home
pleasant and endearing, with its flowers and
pleasant words which are sunshine to the
heart, with music to soften, to modify, and
arouse in the mind a love for the beautiful.
	The feelings of a child shrink from cold
hearts and harsh words, but will cling to a
person whose words are uttered in gentle-
ness; and music will act as magic on the
youthful mind, causing the clouds to flee
and sunshine to appear in their hearts. Then
why not cultivate heaven at home? Gentle
words cost nothing, but harshness has made
many a disconsolate and hopeless heart and
deserted home.
	Build the proper foundation in the youth-
ful mind. Seed sown on good grounf will
take root.
	As the child develops, still let it be taught
love in the school room; make sufficient at-
tractions there by supplying the pre-requi-
sites. Let its dinner be properly arranged
and tastily suited to its appetite. Let the
books be neat, and wisely selected to suit
the classes, without a lack; and the school
room supplied with proper seats and desks,
and all apparatus needful. Above all let the
teacher be one who has at heart the interest
of your child, and whose countenance glows
with intelligence. Let her salary be such
that it will be ample stimulous for her to de-
vote her entire time and thought to the cul-
ture of the charge placed under her care,
that she may have time to make each child
a study and be able to think for her pupils,
to economize their time and set forth their
time and set forth their lessons in a way to
be acquired with the least possible exertion,
by the shortest methods; simplifying and
reducing them to the capacity of each. So
that they are enabled to discover beauties 
as they solve the once mysterious lesson. If
you observe that a lesson is beyond the pre-
sent grasp of a child's mind, never let it
know it is because of a lack of capacity, but
tell it that you have given too long a lesson,
or recommend a change of studies for the
present. Should a feeling of discourage-
ment seize you after constant attempts and
continued exertions, let not the child be
made aware of it. When the feeling of love
is aroused, and the heart is interested, then
application to study is a pleasure, and the
work is half accomplished; the whet-stone
of encouragement should be applied daily.
Let it be seen that you approve of every-
thing that will admit of approval; encour-
agement is what hope feeds on, and if there
is no hope for success, what is there to
prompt one to action?
	Let teachers and guardians give due con-
sideration to these facts; for oftentimes the
most speedy and satisfactory results are ef-
fected by gentle words. And in order to
have your words effective and your teach-
ings beneficial, it is an all important item
to have the love and respect of your stu-
dents. Let teachers and guardians respect
themselves by respecting their callings and
never abuse the confidence and trust that is
placed in them. Treat the feelings of stu-
dents with due respect. You may whittle
the wood, and pound the lead, but do not 
stamp upon the mind and heart of mortals—
these are their treasures. The training of
the mind is the most delicate work allotted
to mankind. Do not then, trust such train-
ing to unskillful hands, any more than you
would trust the doctoring of your eyes to a
butcher. The great final result rests princi-
pally in the beginning, good castles are not
built on poor foundations, how very impor-
tant then, that there should be a proper
commencement.			I'LL TRY.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	He who waits to do a great deal at once
will never do anything.—Dr. Johnson.
	BEECHER says the United States is Eng-
land broke loose and growing in the open
air. 
	A CYNIC says marriage is often a dull
book with a very fine preface: sometimes it
is "half calf," too." When such as he form
part of the binding it is sure to be "half
calf" or "sheep."
	THERE is something very sensible in the
impromptu remark of a young lady: "If
our Maker thought it wrong for Adam to
live single when there was not a woman on
earth, how criminally wrong are the old
bachelors, with the world full of pretty
girls!"
	A NEWSPAPER paragraph states the fact
that a telegraph office for the dispatch of
messages in Turkish and foreign languages,
has now been established at Bethlehem, on
which the Observer remarks:—"The mes-
sage received at Bethlehem in years gone
by, has thrilled the world:—"Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace, good
will toward men."
	The following—the truth of which is
vouched for by the San Francisco "Repub-
lican," displays an example of self-sacrific-
ing gallantness worthy of record:—Six
weeks ago seven male Indians and one In-
dian woman started to cross Clear Lake,
near the northern end, in a small boat, which
was capsized three miles from land. They
righted it; but as the lake was rough they
could not bail it out, and while full of water
it would not support more than one person.
The men put the girl in and held on to the
edges of the boat, supporting themselves
by swimming, till exhausted and chilled
through by the cold water, and then drop-
ped off one by one. They showed no thought
of disputing the young woman's exclusive
right to the boat. She was saved by their 
self-sacrifice.
	HERE is the way a Georgia paper puts
it:—"Among the many visitors who came
to our city on Saturday last to sell their
country produce, was a young lady from an
adjoining county who had chickens, eggs
and butter for sale. Her beauty was of tran-
scendent excellence; bright, flashing, intel-
lectual eyes, and face round and rosy, while
her calico dress was plain and neatly made,
fitting beautifully. Her raven hair flowed
in luxurious richness. Well educated she
conversed fluently, and deported herself
with becoming modesty. She wore no false
bustle or purchased complexion; had no
topnot on her head, no false fixings to pre-
sent, but stood in the majestic beauty of
a created intelligence that would not yield
to the despotic dictates of frivolous fash-
ion. It has been a long time since we
gazed on such a sight. The young men
crowded around her wagon with curiosity
in their eyes and admiration in their hearts.
The old men wept for joy that there was
one who had not bowed to Baal. She sold
her country produce, went home, milked
the cows, cooked the supper for ten farm
laborers, and went to church that night
with her sweetheart."
	A GOLDEN LESSON TO TEACHERS.—1. If
you would have no drones in your school,
talk at each recitation to the dullest in your
class, and use all your ingenuity in endeav-
oring to make them comprehend. The
others, then, will be sure to understand.
	2. Make each exercise as attractive as
possible. Think out your methods before-
hand, and illustrate freely.
	3. Cultivate self-control; never be led in-
to confusion. and above all be in earnest.
	4. Be cheerful, and smile often. A teach-
er with a long face casts a gloom over every-
thing, and eventually chills young minds
and closes young hearts.
	5. Use simple language when you explain
lessons. Long words are thrown away in
the school-room.
	6. Thoroughly test each pupil on the les-
son, and do not be afraid of repetition. Re-
view every day, or much time will be lost.
	7. Do not try to teach too much; better
teach a little and teach it well.
	8. Endeavor to make your pupils under-
stand the meaning of what they study.
Probe the matter to the bottom, and get at
the real knowledge of your scholars.
	9. Cultivate the understanding, and do
not appeal directly to the memory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MARK TWAIN ON THE CRUSADE.

	Mark Twain (Mr. S. W. Clemens) the
noted humorist, can write eloquently and
sensibly on serious subjects, as the following
article on the Women's Temperance Move-
ment, and Suffrage, contributed to the Lon-
don Standard, abundantly demonstrates.

	Would you consider the conduct of these
crusaders justifiable. I do—thoroughly
justifiable. They find themselves voiceless
in the making of the laws, and the election
of officers to execute them. Born with
brains, born in the country, educated, hav-
ing large interests at stake, they find their
tongues tied and their hands fettered, while
every ignorant, whiskey-drinking, foreign-
born savage in the land may hold office, help
to make the laws, degrade the dignity of
the former, and break the latter at his own
sweet will. They see their fathers, hus-
bands, and brothers, sit inactive at home,
and allow the scum of the country to assem-
ble at the "primaries," name the candidates
for office from their own vile ranks, and,
unrebuked, elect them. They live in the
midst of a country where there is no end to
the laws, and no beginning to the execution
of them. And when the laws intended to
protect their sons from intemperance, lie
torpid and without sign of life, year after
year, they recognize that there is a matter
that interests them personally—a matter
which comes straight home to them. And
since they are allowed to lift no legal voice
against the outrageous state of things they
suffer under in this regard, I think it is no
wonder that their patience has broken down
at last, and they have tried to persuade
themselves that they are justifiable in break-
ing the law of tresspass, when the laws that
should make the tresspass needless are al-
lowed by the voter to lie dead and inoper-
ative.
	The present Crusade will, doubtless, do
but little work against intemperance that
will be really permanent; but it will do
what is as much, or even more, to the pur-
pose, I think. I think it will suggest to
more than one man that if women could
vote they would vote on the side of moral-
ity, even if they did vote and speak rather
frantically and furiously; and it will also
suggest that when the women once made
up their minds that it was not good to have
the all-powerful "primaries" in the hands
of loafers, thieves, and pernicious little poli-
ticians, they would not sit indolently at
home, as their husbands and brothers do
now, but would hoist their prayer banners,
take the field in force, pray the assembled
political scum back to the holes and slums
where they belong, and set some candidates
fit for human beings to vote for. I dearly
want the women to be raised to the politi-
cal altitude of the negro, the imported sav-
age, and the pardoned thief, and allowed to
vote. It is our last chance, I think. The
women will be voting before long; and then
if a B. F. Butler can still continue to lord it
in Congress; if the highest offices in the
land can still continue to be occupied by
perjurers and robbers; if another Congress,
like the forty-second, consisting of fifteen
honest men and two hundred and ninety-
six of the other kind, can once more be cre-
ated, it will at least be time, I fear, to give
over trying to save the country by human
beings, and appeal to providence. Both the
great parties have failed. I wish we might
have a woman's party now, and see how
that would work. I feel persuaded that, in
extending the suffrage to women, this coun-
try could lose nothing, and must gain a
great deal. For thirty centuries history has
been iterating and reiterating that, in a
moral fight, woman is simply dauntless;
and we all know, even with our eyes shut
upon Congress and our voters, that, from
the day that Adam ate of the apple and told
on Eve, down to the present day, man, in a
moral fight, has pretty uniformly shown
himself to be an arrant coward.


﻿CRITICISING DRESS.

	One of the most enjoyable women we know,
aside from having her person decently cov-
ered, is completely unsophisticated as re-
gards dress or fine manners; and she is quite
as indifferent as regards the same in her
friends. In all the years we have known
her, we never heard her pass a criticism
upon any article of dress. She loves her
friends for themselves, not for their clothes.
The thought of her insures a sense of rest.
She would enjoy a visit with us in a dress
ten years out of date as well as if we had
worn one of the latest mode. She never
makes us uncomfortable by saying, "Why you
wear blue? It is dreadfully unbecoming,”
or “Your dress is altogether too long—your
crinoline is horribly out of shape," or “Why
don’t you wear a corset? it would give you
some shape,” and so on through your entire
wardrobe.	
	We all know no well bred person passes
unfavorable comments upon the clothing of
guests. But it is something well meaning
people often perpetrate unconsciously, and
the thoughtless comment makes a sensitive,
untried girl, or woman either, miserable
for the entire day. Many a woman wears
dresses, the wearing of which constitutes
her a martyr, so far as her taste and fancy
are concerned. But by some unfavorable
circumstances, she can do no better for the
time being. And then, for some one to ex-
claim, “Oh, dear! I thought you threw that
dress away long ago.”—Rural New York-
er.


Kind words are the bright flowers of
earth’s existence; use them, and especially
around the fireside circle. They are jewels
beyond price, and powerful to heal the
wounded heart and make the weighed-
down spirit glad.


A WORD FOR THE WOMEN.
	Women are often extravagant. The fact
cannot be denied. But that they are more
so than men is by no means true. As a rule
every woman wishes to live within her hus-
band’s income, and in nine families out of
ten all the economizing done at all is done
by the wife. This constant iteration of the
charge against women, however, has secured
a kind of passive acceptance for the theory,
and nothing is more common now than for
young men with salaries of two or three
thousand dollars a year to lament their ina-
bility to marry, because women are so ex-
travagant. One of these has recently told
the public through the newspapers how it
takes all his income of two thousand dollars
to support him as a single man, and after
looking over the bill of items and finding
that it takes fifty-two dollars worth of per-
fumery every year to keep him sweet, we
quite agree with him in thinking that he
should not marry. A woman weak enough
to wed such a youth would probably give
him trouble even with a much larger in-
come than his to draw upon. The trouble is
men want to live in a more costly style than
their incomes will allow. They hire houses
they cannot afford, and buy furniture be-


yond their means, and "put on style" gen-
erally which they cannot maintain. Their
wives knowing less than they of the purse
depths at command, accept the husband's
estimate of their ability to live, and they
dress as their lords clearly wish them to do.
And so the crash comes, and "poor Charley"
is commiserated, while his little wife's
shoulders are saddled with the blame.—
"Hearth and Home.


“I was very near selling my boots the
other day,” said John, to a friend.—“How
so?”—“Well, I had them half-soled.”


DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah. 
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.
												
				H. DINWOODEY

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			     storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
			Where he is prepared to do a
     WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.
														
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
												
				CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-			$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 		-	-	-	-	-			  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12X16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-			  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-		48	00
Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
