VOL. 3. 				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1875.		NO. 17﻿


EDUCATE THE GIRLS.

	Give our girls good, thorough, practical
educations. Whatever they are set to study,
cncourage them to learn, and furnish them
with the means of learning, as though the
knowledge they acquire were to be put to
practical use.
	Every young lady should consider for her-
self that there is no knowing what may
happen in this country; and while she
adorns her mind and her deportment with
those graces which may serve her in the
highest station, and which are never out of
place even in the lowest, she should try to
prepare herself in other ways to meet any
and all changes in fortune, be they good or
ill.
	It cannot be denied that, in many depart-
ments, woman's wages are inadequate to the
amount of her labor. But it is because the
standard of her labor has been degraded by
the incompetency and unreliability of the 
many; and the excellent few have been
made to suffer in consequence. Raise the
standard of excellence by adopting a plan of
education which shall increase the number
of accomplished and reliable workwomen in
all branches of employment, and there can
be but little doubt that wages will rise in
proportion.


﻿WOMAN'S APPRECIATION OF
	WOMAN’S BEAUTY.
	*	*	*	*	*	Men—even the
wisest of them—are very easily duped by
little artifices of dress and adornment by
which women seek to beautify themselves
(for the masculine eye, shall I say?) and a
woman thus "gotten up" would rather face
a regiment of men than the scrutinizing
eye of one keen-eyed woman. For she
knows full well that her abundant locks,
her soft pearly complexion, with just the
suspicion of bloom on the cheeks, the round
waist and well developed bust, will no more
deceive that woman than a coarse clay
model will be mistaken for Parian by the
true artist.
	No, if one woman excites the admiration
of another, by her beauty, the male critic
may generally make up his mind that the
beauty under contemplation is genuine,
and no sham.
	In the street cars, on the ferry boat, in
the street, and at church, the face of a
lovely woman will excite more genuine ad-
miration in one of her own sex than in that
of the opposite; for to the true artist mind
a beautiful human being is like a flower, a
lovely landscape, a rare gem, a painting or
a statue, a subject for sincere admiration
and not one to engender envy or jealous
feelings. It is not true, then, that women
as a rule are envious of each other's beauty,
the assertion of man to the contrary not-
withstanding.—"Golden Dawn."


MR. H. F. Durant has spent $1,000,000
on building a college exclusively for the fe-
male sex near Natick, Mass. "Every officer
and teacher in the institute, from the Presi-
dent down to Professor, and downwards, is
to be a woman."


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Fellows, the wife of the Mayor of
Camden, Arkansas, shot a drunken man
three times, last Saturday, for assailing
her.
	Mrs. Marshall, of Dubuque Iowa, has re-
ceived $2,250 for 18,000 quarts of strawber-
ries she raised last season, from three and a
half acres of ground.
	Mrs. Anna R. Evans, of Fort Dodge,
Iowa has sued nineteen saloon keepers and
owners, asking $10,000 damages for making
her husband a drunkard.
	MADAME Yoshida, wife of the new Japa-
nese minister at Washington, has engaged
a French mantua-maker, and an English
ladies' maid, as she intends to  "go into so-
ciety."
	LIZZIE Chase Huchinson, wife of Asa B.
Huchinson of the famous family of singers,
died recently in Rushford, Minnesota,
while engaged in delivering a lecture on
Temporance.
	MISS Mathilde E. Toedt, the young vio-
linist, has achieved a great triumph in gain-
ing in competitive examination the first
position in a class of over thirty pupils, all
men except herself.
	Mrs. Caroline Hardy of Groveland, Mass.,
who has been deaf for years, had her hear-
ing restored recently by a blow upon the
ear from the leg of a chair which one of the
children had tipped over..	
	THE Princess Beatrice is described as very
sharp-witted, rather shrewish in disposition
and an inverterate stickler for all the privi-
leges of her rank. She insists upon taking
precedence of the Duchess of Edinburgh,
and she does it.
	MRS. Bingham of Boston, who for several
years has edited the Ladies’ Repository, and
has done much other literary work in con-
nection with the Universalist denomination,
has retired temporarily from the paper on
account of ill health, and will soon go on a
visit to Wisconsin.
	MRS. John J. Aston, of New York, had a
special interest in the intercollegiate con-
test of January 7, and gave five hundred
dollars for the prizes. She was earnestly
desirous that the students should receive
such encouragement as would tend to estab-
lish an annually recurring intercollegiate
competition.
	THERE is a woman, sixty years old, or
more, at Hartford, who, having worked all
her life for one dollar a week and her board,
has saved between $6,000 and $7,000. She
cannot be induced to make her will, as she
fears she would be sure to die if she made
such preparations for death; and, as she has
no relatives, it is a question what will be-
come of her property.
	MARIA Vogtlin, M. D., who graduated
last spring, in Zurich, after a brilliantly sus-
tained examination, has settled there as a
practitioner in diseases of women and chil-
dren, and has already obtained an extensive
practice. She is now the wife of Dr. Helm,
one of the professors in the faculty of medi-

[Column2]
cine at Zurich. Thus women doctors are
meeting with success in Switzerland.
	ELIZABETH Cady Stanton, in the Golden
Age, asks: "Should any man of common
sense expect a class of American citizens,
who are taxed without representation, de-
nied the right of trial by jury, forbidden to
enter our colleges, compelled to teach school
at starvation wages, and snubbed generally
and everywhere, to feel cheerful, good-tem-
pered, and full of fun in the nursery?"


KEEP YOUR PROMISE.—A boy borrowed
a tool from a carpenter, promising to return
it at night. Before evening he was sent on
an errand, and did not return till late. Be-
fore he went, he was told that his brother
should see the article returned.
	After he had come and gone to bed, he in-
quired, and found that the tool had not been
sent to the owner. He was much distressed
to think his promise had not been kept,
but was persuaded to go to sleep, and rise
early and carry it home the next morn-
ing.
	By daylight he was up, and nowhere was
the tool to be found. After a long and fruit-
less search, he set off for his neighbor’s in
great distress to acknowledge his fault. But
how great was his surprise to find the tool
on his neighbor’s doorstep! And then it
appeared from the print of his little bare
feet in the mud, that he had got up in his
sleep and carried the tool home, and gone
to bed again without knowing it.
	Of course a boy who was prompt in his
sleep was prompt when awake. He lived
respected, had the confidence of his neigh-
bors, and was put in many offices of trust
and profit.
	If all the grown folks felt as this boy did,
there would be found a great many tracks of
bare feet found some of these bright morn-
ings; and what piles of tools and books
would be found lying at their owners’ doors
—Phren Journal.


The Poetical and Practical.—Miss Wordsworth,
sister to the poet, was passing through a wood
which the stock-dove was filling with his soft music
when she fell in with a countrywoman, who ex-
claimed, “I am so fond of the stock doves." "Oh!"
thought Miss Wordsworth, “at last I have come
on one of Nature’s poets with a soul to appreciate
the beautiful music of the birds.” Very ruth-
lessly was the dream disenchanted by an explana-
tory remark of the woman—"Some likes 'em in
pies and some likes 'em roasted; but for my part
I think there’s nothing like ’em stewed with
onions!”


A Washington special says: "The only two
cabinet officials who are holding along to their
business, evidently ignorant of the fact that this is
the last session in which the Republican party is
to peddle patronage, are Bristow and Jewell.
They are conducting the severe business of their
respective departments with fidelity, exactnesss,
and common sense. I have not heard of anybody
who loves either of them, but they are held in
wholesome respect in every corner of the treasury
and postoffice buildings."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT

TO MRS. E. A. WHITNEY, ON HER SEVENTY
		FOURTH BIRTHDAY.

Mother in Israel, honored most, and best!
Of Saint, or woman, all the noblest traits possessed;
A mind and heart, innately pure, chaste and refined,
Such as Dame Nature scarcely ever has combined;
Sound in thy judgment, in thy faith firm and sincere,
In womanly perfection, almost, without a peer.
Under the prophet's hand ordained, and set apart,
To bless, to counsel, and instruction to impart
To all, who in humility, thy blessing seek,
To comfort those who mourn, strengthen the weak.
Thy words are precious, and should cherished be,
As pearls of wisdom, rich with grace and charity;
Within thy soul, a clear and living foutain flows.
Diffusing light and peace, content and calm repose.
Yet through afflictions dark and deep, thy path has lain.
Thy bosom hath been pierced, with keenest, sharpest pain.
And thou, in meekness, patience, and the fear of God,
Acknowledged still His hand, beneath the chastening rod;
Trusting the promise, by revelation given,
A testimony unto thee, of thy reward in heaven.
A widow, many long and lonely years, hast been,
Protected, strengthened, comforted by the "Unseen;"
Whose hand has led thee, and Whose voice is clear;
Who to the widow's prayer; still lends a listening ear;
Thy hands have ministered unto the prophet's need,
In days when friends were few, and thou, a friend indeed;
Raised up, inspired as it were, to help in ushering forth
Those principles, which in their embryo and birth,
Struggled against tradition, and the creeds of men,
At fearful odds; to bring the priesthood back again.
Honored forever be thy name, for truest worth;
And hallowed the propitious day, that gave thee birth,
Where'er thy name is known, they speak thy praise;
All womankind should strive to emulate thy ways.
A christian true art thou, in thought, in word, in deed,
Yet for the weak and erring, thy soul would pitying plead;
Forgetful of self, thou feelest another's woe,
And with a bounteous hand doth charity bestow;
Thy virtues bright shall shine in an immortal wreath
Crowning thee victor, even at the gates of death.
Blessings upon thy head, thou more than mother here,
Teacher and friend to me most truly, near and dear.
Our hearts desire for thee, more than we can express,
Long life, true joy, and an eternal happiness,
With thy belov'd companion, who has gone before
And waits to welcome thee to that immortal shore;
Forever re-united in those close and tender bonds,
Where soul to soul congenial corresponds.
Of joy and rapture sweet, to count thy sufferings o'er,
Where love eternal dwells, and partings are no more.
	Dec. 26th, 1874.						B. B.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
			 ——
 	WEST WEBER, January 10th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
   I have thought many times I should like
to write a letter for your columns. I con-
sider our little paper truthfully a valuable
instructor, for I have received many good
things through reading it. I wish that all
my sisters could realize this as some of us
do, and the paper would have a larger cir-
culation. But we must do the best we can,
and always hope for the best. We have a
good Relief Society here composed of sixty-
six members. I am happy to say that the
sisters are now alive to their duties more
than ever. We have excellent meetings,
in which the spirit of the Lord is enjoyed.
We are continually desirous of adding our
mites towards building the Temple of the
Lord, for many of us begin to realize that
we are daily growing older instead of
younger; therefore we are anxious to see
the Temple finished, that the blessings
which have been promised may be fulfilled.
Our settlement has passed through many
hardships, but I think the cloud is passing
by. The President, Elder John L. Hart, of-
ten attends our meetings and encourages us
with his kind fatherly advice and words of
cheer. President Mrs. Mary Douglas is
very diligent in looking after the needy,
causing many to rejoice and gaining the
prayers and blessings of the poor.
   With many kind wishes, I am your sister
in the Gospel,				P. S. HART.

[Column 2]
	MARRIOTSVILLE, WEBER COUNTY
				U. T. January 10th 1875.
EDITOR OF WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
   I send you a few items relative to the
Relief Society of this place. Through the
efforts of the President, her counselors and
the teachers, about forty dollars have been
raised as a donation to the Temple. The
meetings which are held alternately every
two weeks at this place and Lynne are well
attended and a good spirit prevails—the
Young Ladies' meetings are also well at-
tended.—On the 18th of last month, we
were favored with a visit from Sisters E.
R. Snow of Salt Lake City and—Clark of
Farmington, Davis Co. accompanied by
Sisters Jane Richards and Sarah L. Herrick
of Ogden City.—They all spoke feelingly
and encouragingly to us. Sister E. R.
Snow's remarks were especially able and in-
structive. They were followed by a few
encouraging remarks by Prest. F. D. Rich-
ards. 
   We remain yours truly,
		     ANN BICKINGTON Prest. 
		      CATHERINE PARRY, Secy.
				——
  FIRST WARD, S. L. City, Jan. 11th, 1875
DEAR EDITOR:—
   The Young Ladies Association of the
First Ward, was organized April 2nd, 1874.
Miss E. R. Snow was present, and instructed
us concerning our positions as members of the
Society and as children of the Latter-day
Saints. Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. How-
ard also spoke encouragingly to us, and
Bishop Warburton blessed us, and the Sis-
ters in their traveling from place to place to
do good. Mrs. Sarah Graham was chosen
as President, of the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion; and for counselors, Mrs. A. Campbell,
Mrs. G. Cuthbert, Mrs. E. Hill, Mrs. M.
Hawkins, Mrs. E. Chase, and Mrs. J. Van-
Tassel; Miss S. R. Smith was chosen for Secre-
tary and Miss A. Adams assistant Secretary.
Twenty-four young ladies then joined as
members. We can realize that the organi-
zation has been a great blessing to us and
that we are constantly improving. On the
6th inst., we had an excellent meeting at
Sister Margaret Steel's. The girls are over-
coming their timidity, and many of them
are able to bear noble testimonies to the
truth. We appreciate your worthy efforts
and wish you great success.
		MRS. S. GRAHAM, President,
		 MISS S. R. SMITH, Secretary.
				——
   Last fall Miss Snow, assisted by Mrs. Zina
 D. Young, Mrs. Howard and Mrs. Grant,
established a branch of the Young Ladies'
Association in Grantsville, under the presi-
dency of Miss Rachel Hale and superinten-
dence of Mrs. Mary Cook. Having a little
time to spare, I attended their last meeting.
It was a very pleasant sight, so many young
ladies meeting together for mutual improve-
ment. There seemed to exist among them
no element of discord; each desirous of
gaining and giving. The harmony seemed
perfect, so much so as to astonish me. If
they go on as they have commenced, they
soon will be a powerful element for good in
Grantsville. One of the Counselors expressed
her wish for more union and greater efforts
for improvement, and her words seemed
the sentiments of every heart present.
There were readings from the EXPONENT
and questions and answers from the Cate-
chism in the "Juvenile Instructor." Some
of the readings were well rendered. A
poem by elder P. P. Pratt on attaining the
fiftieth anniversary of his birthday, and an-
swer by Elder John Taylor were well re-
cited by two very young ladies. In such

[Column 3]
meetings can be seen how much of intellect
the young ladies possess. And it will be
seen by an impartial observer at a glance,
they fully equal the young gentlemen in
keen bright intelligence; and when they
join to this the determination to do right,
they, (the young ladies) can do very much
towards making this earth a heaven. And
if all the young ladies' organizations are
growing like this one, the young gentlemen
will have to bestir themselves, or be left in
the back grounds.				MARY.
   Grantsville, Jan. 1875.
				——
			S. L. CITY, Jan. 27th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
   The Juvenile Relief Society of the 17th
Ward was organized Sept. 17th, 1873, by
Miss E. R. Snow,with the following officers.
President, Emerett Brown; Counselors, Liz-
zie Jacques and Mary Davis; Treasurer,
Melvia Calder; Secretary, Edith Smith. At
the organization, there were present, Sister
Higgs and Sister Howe, who were appoin-
ted Superintendent and assistant Superin-
tendent. We have meetings every other
week, which are well attended by the Young
Ladies, all of whom take an active part in
aiding the progress of the Society. At our
first annual meeting, which took place on
the 17th day of Sept., 1874, we had a very
good time and were blessed with good in-
structions from Sister Hyde, Sister Howe,
Sister Horne and others.
		Yours Truly,
		  EMERETT BROWN, President.
			EDITH SMITH, Secretary.
			   ——
   The second annual meeting of the 10th
Ward Young Ladies'Retrenchment Associa-
tion, was held in the new Meeting house,
agreeable to adjournment, on the 8th of Jan.,
1875. Opened by singing, "O give me
back my Prophet dear." Prayer by Br. S.
B. Smith. Singing, "May we who know
the joyful sound." Minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted.
   President Mrs. M. J. Pearce arose and
made a few introductory remarks, after
which Sister E. R. Snow arose and said:—
"The house of God is a house of order—by
invitation from the president of the Young
Ladies' Association, I arise and speak to you
my sisters, and that I may speak so as to
benefit you, I wish your faith and prayers.
While looking around this Hall, so beauti-
fully decorated, I feel as though the angels
of God must like to be here if the hearts of
the people are fit to receive them. The
Spirit of God is in our midst, and I feel as
though His angels were here. I was pleased
to hear that the young men have organized
into a Deacon's Quorum. Literary Associa-
tions are good in their way, but it is spirit-
ual culture, spiritual food the young want.
You are to fit and prepare yourselves to fill
high positions in the Kingdom of God; does
the education of the world prepare you for
this? does it prepare you to associate in the
holy Order of the house of God? No! It
only fits you to be ornaments in Babylon.
In our young ladies' retrenchment associa-
tion, we have little girls who get up and tes-
tify that this is the kingdom of God. Does
the literature of the world prompt this? No!
I think not. When the young ladies began
to organize these associations there were
many elderly people so kind as to ask, 'What
is the use of the young ladies meeting to-
gether to speak and pray?' I replied, 'what
is the use of any of us meeting together?'
The Lord says where there are a few gath-
ered together in His name there will He be
also, in their midst, and that to bless them.
In Ogden the young gentlemen and ladies


[Column 1]
hold their meetings together. I like this
idea; it helps them to overcome a great deal
of embarrassment, and those who attend
the meetings most regularly will make the
best men and women. The young ladies have
made resolutions not to associate with any
of the young men who drink, smoke, &c.
The young men are also getting up resolu-
tions. I see the result, it is to purify and
exalt them. And they will know better
who to choose as husbands and wives. I as-
sure you, my young sisters, that this great
work cannot be accomplished without wo-
men! and it is for us to be up and doing.
Do not indulge in any gross language or
manners or any vulgarity before your
children; the rising generation is to bear off
this kingdom, and the young men are to be
pillars in the same. I am thankful that the
current has turned heavenward, that they
may be saviors on Mount Zion. The time is
fast approaching when angels will visit the
earth, yes, the time is near and who shall be
prepared? It will be these young people
who are stepping forward and are willing to
serve God and keep His commandments.
Again I say God bless you my sisters."
	Sister Zina D. Young said: "The subject
of prayer is something for us to reflect upon.
When one prays, if each one of us would
repeat in our hearts the words that are spoken
and then say amen, it has a power which
reaches within the vail. Jesus came to this
world and gave us each the privilege of
wearing a crown; how beautiful to think of!
The treasure is priceless. It is the privilege
of the Saints to find balm for every wound.
A mother may forget her infant, but God
will not forget Israel. When I look around
and see these grand mountains and peaceful
valleys, I think how kind He was to give
them to us; but it was not without going
through trouble. Sisters take care of your
health and you will not only benefit your-
selves but also future generations. When
you are sick and afflicted have faith and you
will recover. The book of Doctrine and
Covenants says "The Lord will come when
the faith of the Saints is sufficient."
	Sister M. I. Horne made remarks—"I knew
the Spirit of God was here when I entered
the room. The decorations are beautiful and
the young ladies of the 10th Ward have be-
gun the New Year very well by inviting
their elder sisters to their meeting. We
can speak on different subjects and it does
not make the meeting monotonous, but it all
tends to the same end. You, young ladies,
have great responsibilities to fulfill, and it is
for you to prepare yourselves for such. The
men are called to one part of this great vine-
yard and the women to another; but is the
woman's part less honorable? I think not.
The young have not been restrained enough
in times past. They have been allowed to
grow up in a reckless manner, and it is for
the mothers in Israel to teach and guide
them, and draw their children towards
them, and gain their confidence. My young
sisters be like Mary of old, and choose the
better part; follow not in the way of the
Gentiles, but strive to live pure and holy
before God. Jesus says, "If ye love me
keep my commandments;" and although
you may have to go through great trials, it
is only to make you more steadfast, for
everything that can be shaken will be sha-
ken. It is for us to first seek the kingdom
of God and His righteousness and all other
things will be added unto us.
	Sister M. P. Young then made some ex-
cellent remarks; after which Sister East
arose and wished all present a Happy New
Year, and said she felt inspired to give
thanks that we are the happy recipients of

[Column 2]
the spiritual feast received this afternoon.
After making some good remarks in refer
ence to health and its laws, she concluded
with saying that God had called Israel from
the East, West, North and South and estab-
lished His kingdom never more to be thrown
down. The Pioneers of the church are
passing away, and the rising generation are
to improve themselves that they may be far-
ther advanced, for there is no stand still to
the kingdom of God.
	Sister Mary Freeze bore a faithful testimo-
ny, after which Sister Barney made appro-
priate remarks on the duties of mothers, and
concluded with saying that this is the wind-
ing up scene and it will not be long before
the dividing line will be drawn.
	Bro. Samuel B. Smith read an original
essay entitled "Pride," which was followed
by testimonies from a number of the breth-
ren present, that they felt to endorse all thatthe sisters had said.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing "We thank Thee O God for a Prophet,"
Benediction by Bro. Wm. Poll.
				M. H. Paul, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WILD FLOWERS AND NATIVE
			PLANTS.

	The native flora of this mountain region
is rich, beyond the conception of those who
pass through the vallies and over the hills
and mountains unobserving and carelessly.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Our interesting plants are so numerous,
and each bringing its own peculiar interest,
or loveliness, makes it almost sacrilage to
name a few in preference to the scores
equally meritorious; and we should be as
prone to leave the most rare and desired un-
mentioned, as to satisfy a majority of flor-
ists that we have selected the most worthy;
but we will note a few that to our unpro-
fessional eye appears most magnificent and
beautiful.
		YUCCA BREVIFOLIA
forms a tree often from twelve to twenty
feet high, forming a curiously wrought
head of branches and short leaves, and in
June, a magnificent head of white bloom
appears from twelve to twenty-four inches
long, followed by a good sized fruit that
bears the seed.
		YUCCA BACCATA
forms a stool from five to eight feet across,
with long fleshy leaves, and in May sends
up flower stems from four to seven feet
high, having a profusion of huge lily-shaped,
wax like flowers, whose beauty and sweet-
ness makes it worthy the boudoir of a prin-
cess.
		DALEA JOHNSONII,
a shrub growing upon sand and clay land,
four feet high, covered in May with long
racemes of pea shaped bloom, of intense
bright blue, producing upon a lawn or in a
garden a charming effect.
		PENSTEMONS.
Of this family of plants there are a great
variety; ranging in color from the fragrant
white to the intensely bright scarlet, whose
bloom, resembling the fuchsia, droops in na-
tive modesty among the rocks and preci-
pices.
		OF CACTUS,
the great variety would make an extended
list, with wonderful diversity of size, shape
and beauty of bloom, from the delicate
Mammalaria Phellosperma to the huge Cere-
us Le Contir, often growing a foot or more
in diameter and five or six feet high, cov-
ered with six inch spines; or opuntia ech-
inocarpa, that forms a tree of no inconsider-

[Column 2]
able size and producing abundance of green-
ish yellow bloom, from its branching, tree
like top.—Another unnamed variety opens a
profusion of bloom each day at precisely the
hour of twelve. The Cereas Engelmanii, a
new vareity, is among the most charming
of blooming cactus and the Echinocactus
Johnsonii is a bristling, new, strange and
rare sort.
		OENOTHERA
also abound in great variety. Two dwarfs,
yellow and white, their bloom daily (or
nightly) appears for weeks, the flowers
opening with a whiff and a crash instanta-
neously just after sunset; a most remarkable
plant, yielding much amusement for the
curious watcher. The dwarfs are new
varieties, Oenethera Johnsonii Parry.
		CHILOPLIS LINEARIS.
	An entirely new variety of Catalpa.
Shrubbry tree, 15 to 20 feet high loaded
with pendent racemes of tri-colored bloom,
foliage long and narrow, branches long and
slender, and having the appearance of a
handsome willow, weeping with a load of
showy blossoms—seed pod size of a goose
quill, and a foot long.
	CALOCHORTUS FLEXUOSUS.
	A most lovely, wax-like, tulipshaped tir-
colored lilly-like blossom, from a bulb, edi-
ble and sweet as a nut. Flower stem 6 - 12
inches high.
		LARREA MEXICANA.
A beautiful evergreen, a shrub 4 to 8 feet
high; bright yellow bloom in June, emitting
a powerful perfume resembling Iodine. Fo-
liage glossy and fernlike. A very noticea-
ble and desirable shrub.
	MALVASTRUM DODINEUM.
	Perennial, from 1 to 2 feet high flowers
delicate scarlet, profusely laden in June.
Very showy and beautiful.
			Licium———?
A shrub about four feet high, highly laden
in June with scarlet berries, sweet and rich,
about the size of a currant, nice for dry-
ing.
		AGAVE UTAHENSE,
a new plant with thick, short, spikey leaves
and flower stalks ten or twelve feet high,
bulb edible, rich and sweet. And so we
might go on with enumeration, and cover a
quire of fools-cap, but our limits forbid for
the present, but will simply add, that a com-
plete collection of only the smaller plants,
leaving out the new and beautiful evergreen
trees and shrubs, would form a garden of
princely beauty and grace, vieing with the
best gardens of the East.—"Utah Pomolog-
ist."


"Never be ashamed to apologize when you
have done wrong in domestic affairs," says
an eminent divine. "Let that be a law of
your household. The best thing I ever
heard of my grandfather, whom I never saw
was this: that once having unrighteously
rebuked one of his children, he himself—
having lost his patience, and perhaps been
misinformed of the child's doings— found
out his mistake, and in the evening of the
same day gathered all his family together
and said, 'Now I have one explanation to
make and one thing to say. Thomas, this
morning I rebuked you in the presence of
the whole family, and now I ask your for-
giveness in their presence.' It must have
taken some courage to do that. It was
right, was it not? Never be ashamed to
apologize for domestic inaccuracy.


CAN you spell consent in three letters?
Y-e-s.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA M. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place.  Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1875


AN ADDRESS.
TO THE JUVENILE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE
		17TH WARD.	BY M. E. KIMBALL.
	It affords me great pleasure to meet with
the young people of this Society, for two
reasons. One is, their object and aim are
laudable and a great credit to them; the
other because their parents are among the
best people I ever knew. I believe I am ac-
quainted with the parents of all who are in
this room to-day; and when they know of
your seeking wisdom from the fountain of
intelligence, even our Heavenly Father,
you cause their hearts to rejoice. I know
you enjoy yourselves better in pursuing a
course to develop the abilities God has given
you, than in an opposite course. I believe
to improve our talents and our time as God
assigned. For his designs and purposes are
much greater than ours, and will result in
greater good to ourselves, if we learn and
follow them. While I see your nimble fin-
gers at work, so cheerfully making clothing
for those who are needy and destitute of
the comforts of life, I feel to say God bless
you. And He will bless all such, for this is
keeping His commandments; and I know
that light and joy and peace will accompany
the effort if it is done in sincerity of heart.
The Prophet Alma in the Book of Mormon
speaks of charity accompanied with humility,
as one of the greatest gifts of the gospel.
In the first place, we should feel our weak-
ness, and dependence upon our Heavenly
Father, and ask His blessing upon all that
we do. He says; "Pray three times a day."
And again, "Pray in secret." Knowing that
our success depends upon His blessing, this
is humility. But after this, if we neglect to
impart of our substance to the poor and
needy; and visit not the sick and the afflic-
ted, and impart not of our substance to those
who are in need, "I say unto you if you do
not these things behold your prayer is vain
and availeth you nothing; ye are as hypo-
crites who deny the faith; therefore if ye
do not remember to be charitable, ye are as
dross which the refiners cast out." And
again, the Apostle James (in the New Testa-
ment) says, "Religion pure and undefiled
before God and the Father is this, to visit
the widow and the fatherless in their afflc-
tions, and keep yourself unspotted from the
world." Yet you will frequently hear per-
sons say such a one is "too religious." When
I hear this I think they do not mean what
they say; but expect us to qualify the say-
ing for them in this way. They wish to see
a consistent kind of religion; in reality, a
fullness, not lacking in any point, for work
done by halves is never well done. Allow
me, my young friends, to entreat you not to
be too self-willed or conceited to listen to
your parents or guardians; for remember
there is a promise to those who obey their
parents in the Lord. "Thou shalt live long
in the land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee." Let our first object be to honor the
Father of our spirits, as a duty we owe Him,
knowing that His laws are for our greatest
good. And again, to honor our parents will
make us happy as well as them. In observ-
ing these rules, you will fill your positions
nobly upon the earth, and attain to a degree
of happiness which this world can not give
or take from you. That you may attain to
this is the sincere prayer of your sister in
the gospel.


THE circulation of the London Daily Tel-
e graph from January 1 to October 31, 1874,
inclusive, averaged 176,174 copies a day.


MRS. BENEDICT.

	Mrs. Phebe Benedict, of Antioch, Cal.,
has solved the question, "What can Woman
Do?" Some two years since she took out
papers as sole trader, gained the consent of
her husband to allow her complete manage-
ment of the farm and transact all the busi-
ness of the place, and at a time when the
farm was mortgaged for several hundred
dollars, and farming implements out of re-
pair. Now, by economy, close attention to
business and shrewd management, she has
paid off the mortgage and interest, purchased
a new cultivator, plows and other imple-
ments, treated herself to a sewing machine,
repaired the buildings, and will shortly loan
money; and Mrs. Benedict is, beside this, a
leading advocate of suffrage for women.


MAKE YOURSELF USEFUL.

	It is an unquestionable fact, that capacity of-
ten fits one person for a position that could not be
sustained by another. Capacity also qualifies
almost any person, for filling some position or
accomplishing some work more successfully
than anything else that might be undertaken.
	In consideration of these principles, it is the
duty of every individual to seek, understand-
ingly, to know the proper course to pursue, the
right place to occupy, the best thing to do in
order that the greatest amount of good may be
accomplished with the least waste of time and
expense.
	Sometimes we have heard such remarks as
"I have no forte, I do not think I was designed
to excel in anything." "I don't believe I was
blest with any gift whatever, or that I possess
ability for anything." I have tried nearly all
kinds of work, and do not like any one of
them.” These are but fanciful ideas, having
no foundation in truth, if the individual is real-
ly desirous of benefiting the world, friends or
self. 
	Even if circumstances seem to conflict in
every attempt, and disappointments rather than
success are met on every hand for a time, there
is yet one course left which cannot fail if ear-
nestly and faithfully pursued. Man may have
erred in his own judgment; friends may have
misguided by kindly meant but injudicious ad-
vice; but if he asks of God, in faith, He will
not misrepresent things, but will give the re-
quired knowledge, and help to prepare the way
and person for the performance of some good
work.
	No one need be idle, though the immediate
duties presented may not seem just what would
best suit the disposition, or capacity, of the
seeker for employment. A better way than
giving up in disgust because of self-insufficien-
cy, because some one else can push ahead faster,
is to work with a will at whatever must be
done, or may be done, determined to be con-


science clear at least, having done all that was
possible, in the best possible manner according
to the means and abilities possessed. What-
ever art is learned well, fits mind or body the
more perfectly for the performance of some
other work—though the two may be entirely
unlike—and prepares the individual much more
than standing still would do, for the right posi-
tion when it is presented.
	Be of some use to the world, cultivate some
useful quality, learn to love useful employment
of whatever nature it may consist, and the time
will never drag, the hours never move wearily.


KISSING BABY.

	Our esteemed friend, Professor J. L. Barfoot
of the Salt Lake Museum, calls our attention
to an article on the subject of baby kissing,
which appeared in a late number of the "Sci-
entific American."
	The writer of the article delineates the evils
which are liable to arise from the habit, declares
the practice to be a pestilential one and says
farther, "Murderous would be the proper word,
did the kissers know the mischief they do."
	It appears that a slight cold or sore throat in
an adult, will be communicated to a child,
causing diptheria, with, too often, fatal results,
by the simple act of kissing.  The fact of this
statement, we consider too apparent to require
justification from our pen.  And that no surer
means of spreading contagions could be adopt-
ed than the mingling of breaths by kissing, is
a truth too commonly known to require any ex-
planation.  But we hope that more attention
and reflection will be given to this highly im-
portant subject, than has hitherto been mani-
fested.
	Think, mothers, of a man whose breath is
nauseous with tobacco or whiskey, coaxing
your infant son or daughter to kiss him! Many
such men have large hearts and great love for
children; but they should be taught that for
them to offer to kiss a child is an insult instead
of a compliment.
	Indeed, we are of the opinion, that to avoid
kissing the lips of children altogether, would
be sensible on the part of men and women.
How does a person know, though apparently in
perfect health—as not many people profess to
be nowadays—that the stronger and more pow-
erful breath of an adult may not be injurious
or at least disagreeable, if inhaled by the respi-
ration of a child?  Pleasant as it may be to ca-
ress and fondle the little ones, who would not
forgo the pleasure of kissing them for their own
sweet sakes?
	The writer in the "Scientific American,"
thus concludes the article: "A single kiss has
been known to infect a family; and the most
careful may be in condition to communicate
the disease (diptheria) without knowing it.
Beware then, of playing Judas, and let the ba.
bies alone."


THE PERAMBULATOR.

	Do not be without one. Nothing is better for
the baby or its mother than a walk out, in the
frest, pure air and merry sunshine. But there
is something much better for the mother, when
for a few brief moments she gets release from
the many cares and duties ever existing inside
the threshold of home, than carrying in her
arms a great, bouncing baby that wants to be
twisting about this way and that, to stare in
wonder at every object they pass, getting the
wind in its face and the wrappings off its feet.
And that something is the trundling of a per-
ambulator. We do not believe in unnecessary


household expenses, neither do we think that
unnecessary waste of strength is ever profita-
ble when the final result is proven. Therefore,
we would advise every mother who has a baby
to carry about to get a little carriage for the pur-
pose. If your husbands tell you their mothers
carried them without carriages until they were
able to walk, and they think you may do the
same with your children, remind them this
is an age of improvement. Tell them you
want to enjoy better health and raise stronger
and more perfect children than their mothers
and your mothers have done; and for this rea-
son you should be provided with every labor
saving, health promoting piece of machinery
that your circumstances will in any wise justi-
fy. Do without some other things that can
better be dispensed with, but as baby must be
cared for, let it be in the right way. Let moth-
ers take proper care of themselves, and the ba-
bies will not need half the attention that they
otherwise claim.
	Mr. Henry Dinwoodey of this city will fur-
nish you with any sort of a "baby carriage"
you wish to procure, at prices from thirteen to
twenty dollars. Mothers (or fathers) in the coun-
try, should make their babies rich enough to
ride in carriages, even if they cannot indulge
in such luxuries themselves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January,
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed
instead of at the place of delivery; and
have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the precinct of
this county.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	PEOPLE CALLING on business concerning the
EXPONENT, will oblige us by taking notice that
our published days for business, are Tuesdays
and Saturdays.
	THE TEACHERS of the University of Deseret
have been having an examination of its pupils.
Great satisfaction, with all concerned, as to the
progress made, is the result.
	THE NARROW gauge railroad will soon be ex-
tended from Ogden to this city.  There is no
lack of enterprise, force and determination in
our Utah railroad men; and their efforts to in-
crease the facilities for improvement throughout
the country are ever commendable.
	SEVERAL SNOWSLIDES have occurred in the
Cottonwood Kanyons within the past two
weeks, by two of which a number of persons
were killed.  On Tuesday, the 19th ult., at Al-
ta, in Little Cottonwood, two men, a woman
and two children were buried in an avalanche
and died before they could be extricated.  The
day following this mournful event, six men
met the same fate in Big Cottonwood Kanyon.
	IT IS a little surprising, after all that has been
published relative to anonymous correspon-
dence, that a St. George bachelor, who reads
and appreciates the EXPONENT, should send us
such a production, begging to be excused as he
"can only add to the initials Bachelor." We
only add that unless he sends us his name, we
cannot publish his article, which is, however,
an interesting one.
	A YOUNG lady who resides in Tooele city
called upon us one morning lately, when the

[Column 2]
weather was cold and blustering.  She was go-
ing home that day, and we remarked that the
journey would be somewhat tedious. "But I
shall go within fifteen miles of home on the
cars, and going so quickly does not seem at all
wearisome, like the old way of jogging along
all day in a wagon," was her pleasant reply.
It sounded very comfortable and made us think
again, that the people should highly appreciate
the labors of the hardy men who build the rail-
roads, as well as the enterprising spirit of the
contractors.
	KING KALAKAUA of the Hawaiian Islands,
passed through Ogden on his return homeward,
Sunday, the 24th ult.  His majesty in a letter
to Mayor Wells and the members of the City
Council, expressed regrets that he was not able
to accept their invitation to visit this city, hav-
ing been detained in the East longer than he
anticipated.  And he was pleased to meet at
Ogden, a delegation from Salt Lake, compris-
ing the Mayor and a number of other gentle-
men.  So the populace of our city didn't get to
feast their eyes on a "real, live king" this time,
after all.  But a sharp witted young lady sug-
gests that rather than die about it, they might
each in turn, call upon the amiable and ever
hospitable Hannah T.
	ALBERT STICKNEY, of Payson, Utah Co., was
recently killed by a snowslide in Summit Kan-
yon. We take this opportunity of extending
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved wife and
children. It is ever a trying ordeal to yield be-
loved friends to the cold grasp of death, even
when long days and nights of anxious watching
have in some degree prepared the clinging heart
tendrils to slacken their firm clasp.  But when
the keen dart enters in an unguarded moment
and unsuspected form—as in the case of Brother
Stickney—we have had occasion to knew, per-
sonally, that no language can express the heart's
anguish, which can only be overcome by the
strongest resolution, lapse of time and devout
confidence in God, that He doeth all things
well for those who trust in Him.  Sister Stick-
ney is a special friend of the EXPONENT, and
in this we would offer sympathy, and if possi-
ble a word of consolation.


MATRIMONIAL MARKET.

	It is a custom at a Galway fair for all the
marriageable girls to assemble and to tempt
all wanting wives, by their captivating
charms, to be made more happy for life.
Says an American gentleman of the highest
character, who was an eye witness, and in-
vited by a nobleman to go and see these
girls: "At 12 o'clock precisely we went as
directed, to a part of the ground higher
than the rest of the field, where we found
from sixty to one hundred young women,
well dressed, with good looks and good
manners, and presenting a spectacle quite
worthy any civil or modest man's feelings.
They were the marriageable girls of the
country, who had come to show themselves
on the occasion, to the young men who
wanted wives; and this was the plain and
simple custom of the fair.  I can plainly
say that I saw in the custom no great im-
propriety—it certainly did not imply that,
though they were ready to be had, any body
could have them.  It was not a Circassian
slave market, where the richest purchaser
could make his selection. They were in no
sense of the term, on sale, nor did they
abandon their right of choice; but that
which is done in more refined society, un-
der various covers and pretenses—at thea-
ters, at balls  and public exhibitions—I will
say nothing about the churches—was done


by these humble and unpretending people
in this straightforward manner.”


VALUE OF SMALL COURTESIES.

	Civility costs nothing, and is often pro-
ductive of good results. Here is an instance:
A local doctor of medicine at Bath, England,
has just had a legacy of twenty thousand
dollars, and a very comfortable house left
him by a lady who was only known to him
by his offering her a seat in his carriage.
	A gentleman known to the writer, once
assisted a very old and feeble man to cross
from the London Mansion House to the
Bank of England. The crossing is a very
dangerous one, especially at mid-day, when
the street is full of cabs, omnibuses, drays,
and other ponderous vehicles. When the
old gentleman had got safely across, he ex-
changed cards with the obliging young
friend; and then the matter ended. Some
four years after this incident occurred, a firm
of London solicitors wrote to this young
gentleman who had taken pity on the old
man, informing him that a legacy of five
thousand dollars and a gold watch and chain
had been left him by a gentleman who
“took the opportunity of again thanking
him in his will for an act of unlooked-for
civilty.” It is not likely that all will have
got watches and chains left them, or neat
little bundles of crisp notes; but it is cer-
tain that acts of civility are productive of
sufficient results to our inner selves to make
it worth while to practice them whenever
we find the opportunity.


LANGUAGE OF THE HANDS.

	The London Saturday Review says that
M. Desbarrolles in his "Mysteries of the
Hand," a book in which he gives the rules
which form the basis of palmistry, divides
hands into three sorts. The first sort have
fingers with pointed tops; the second, square
tops; the third, spade-shaped tops. By
spade-shaped is meant fingers that are thick
at the end,  having a little pad of flesh at
each side of the nail. The first type of fin-
gers belong to characters possessed of rapid
insight to things; to extra-sensitive people;
to pious people whose piety is of the contem-
plative kind; to the impulsive, and to all
poets and artists in whom ideality is a prom-
inent trait. The second type belongs to
scientific people; to sensible, self-contained
characters; to most of our professional men,
who steer between the wholly practical
course that they of the spade-shaped fingers
take and the too visionary-bent of the peo-
ple with pointed fingers. The third type
pertains to those whose instincts are mate-
rial; to the people who have a genius for
commerce and a high appreciation of every-
thing that tends to bodily ease and comfort;
also to people of great activity. Each fin-
ger, no matter what kind of hand, has one
joint representing each of these. Thus, the
division of the finger which is types nearest
the palm stands for the body (and corres-
ponds with the spade-shaped type), the mid-
dle division represents  mind (the square
topped), the top, soul (the pointed). If the
top joint of the finger be long, it denotes a
character with much imagination, or ideality,
and a leaning towards the theoretical rather
than the practical. The middle part of the
finger being large promises a logical, calcu-
lating mind—a common-sense person. The
remaining joint long and thick denotes a na-
ture that clings more to the luxuries than to
the refinements of life. Things will present
themselves to such a nature under a lower
aspect, and utility will be accounted before
beauty.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT
		THE BOOK OF MORMON
				OR
		A VOICE FROM CUMORAH.

Though not so awful grand as Sinai
In thunder, fire and clouds; yet, thy mild voice
Low whispering from the dust, hath more of God
Than Sinai's awful scene! And there is heard
In its weird depths, the chant of Prophecy
More startling than Sinai's awful thunders.
Thou art the key of keys, sent to unlock
The consummation of all precious things
Spoken by Prophets since fair Eden's morn.
Art and Science quick followed at they voice.
For if prior thou wert not, they both were vain.
By them thou goest to nations, kings and tongues,
On fierce winged lightning made for thy dispatch.
And they and thou art come to bless mankind,
And drop Millennial dew o'er all the earth,
Fresh and smiling with never-fading peace-
	Under the music of thine enchanting voice,
The roseate hue of endless summer comes
To unborn millions soon to people earth.
While Sinai's startling notes would fail to tell
Half of thy deep and grand significance.
Like a king of terrors thou dost prostrate thrones
To herald in th' eternal-Prince of Peace.
And kindling now thou art the effulgent dawn
of the Millennium a swiftly coming day,
So fraught with peace and bliss ineffable:
A long and calm and sunny morn 'twill be:
Let never-failing harps chant its glad-praise.

To God, allo'er the heavenly naradise.
Let Seraphim and Cherubim all hail
Each other at remembrance of that scene.
Let angels stop their fiery chariots
In heaven to chant back the glad refrain,
As they gaze earthward at this spectacle
Of heaven-born sublimity and awe.
And in their new-born bliss forget all else
As they echo, "Peace on earth'good will towards man;"
While Sinai bows her head in meckest awe,
With hand upon her lips and boasts no more.


[Column 1]
﻿		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Potato Puff.—Two cups of cold, mashed pota-
toes; stir in two tablespoonfuls of melted butter,
heating to a cream; add two well-beaten eggs, one
cup of cream or milk; pour into a deep dish; bake
in a quick oven.
	Jelly Rolls.—Take three eggs, half a cup of
sugar, a cup of flour, a teaspoonful of soda, or, in lieu
of the soda and cream tartar, one and a half tea-
spoonfuls of baking powder; bake in thin cakes;
spread with jelly and roll up with the jelly side
in; cut in slices across the roll.
	Cloth Mittens.—Take any soft, strong cloth, of
all wool, and the same amount of Canton flannel,
if you have it; let the hand be laid flat on a piece
of paper, marked round with a pencil, then cut
out a pattern, allowing for seams; cut the lining
bias so as to have a spring to it, stitch the flannel
and lining separate, turn the seams together inside,
bind the wrist, leaving the mitten open two inches
on the under part of the hand, work a button-hole
on one side, sew a strong button on the other, and
you will have a durable mitten.
	Apple Snow.—Pare and core eight or ten tart,
juicy apples, boil them in water sufficient to cover
them, till they are soft, taking care to keep them
whole; then remove them from the stew pan, mak-
ing a sirup of nice, white sugar, and replace them;
let them simmer slowly till they are amber col-
ored, then place in a glass preserve dish; beat to a
stiff froth, the whites of eight eggs, and two
thirds of a cup of sugar, and spread over the top.
It is improved by being kept on ice, and is grate-
ful to the eye and palate, either for desert or tea.
The yolks of the eggs may be used in making a 
boiled custard.
	Fruit Pudding.—Make a crust of graham flour,
sour cream, soda and a pinch of salt.  Pass the
flour through a coarse seive, so as to relieve it of
the larger bits of bran.  For a family of six
persons line a quart basin with the crust, a quarter
of an inch thick.  Fill the basin thus lined, with

[Column 2]
fruit—plums or peaches are the best.  Let the
fruit be of the choicest variety. Cover the whole
with a rather thick crust, and steam until the crust
is thoroughly cooked.  Serve with white sugar and
thick, sweet cream.  This is the queen of puddings
and can be eaten with a (comparatively) clear con-
science.—Herald of Health.
	Hints to Mothers.—Dear Sisters, "Troubled Mar-
thas" and "Tired Mothers," I have been a 
housekeeper for twelve years, have three children
and a family of six to do for (and I do it all my-
self,) besides being a farmer's wife, which many
think such a dreadful thing.  I have learned many
things by experience, which, although a good
teacher, is sometimes rather severe, and I have
been thinking if I could have started in life with
just the experience and knowledge of a wife's and
mother's work that I now have, what a deal of
trouble and anxiety it would have saved me.
	Cannot I help some one? Many things come
rushing to my mind at the present moment that I
have learned by experience, but have only time to
add a little now, and a another time (if this finds
room in your paper) will tell you some more.  I
may as well confess that this is the first time I ever
wrote to an editor in my life.  I will only speak
of the care of  children to-night, for, above all
things, I believe this to be of the highest value.
	I have learned by experience (for my first child
was sadly neglected) that children should have reg-
ular habits, especially in eating and sleeping. Do
not, as you prize their health, give them "pieces"
between meals after they are two years old. Be-
fore that give them something between the three
meals, but let it be at regular times each day.  It
will give tired mothers more rest, for they will not be
teasing for something to eat, and it will give your
child far better health.
	Command or oblige your children to sleep once
through the day, and insist upon its being at a par-
ticular time of day.  If you do not let them miss
the time for a "nap" for a few days, you will be
surprised to see how sleepy they will become just
at that time, and how soon they will drop to sleep
and how refreshed they will be when they awake.
And you, tired mother, will have such a rest; and 
I would recommend that every mother should lie
down with her children just a few moments.  Cer-
tainly you would thereby be more refreshed for
the labors the remainder of the day.—R.N.
Yorker.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	TO PREVENT A CHILL.—A sitz bath of
hot water with the feet also in hot water,
continued until a thorough sweat has been
taken. Then get into cold water all over,
or have cold water dashed all over you im-
mediately upon getting out of the hot
bath.
	SLEEPING.—Young children should not
be allowed to sleep in the same bed with
aged people. By physical contact, the vital-
ity is absorbed out of the one body into the
other, producing sometimes the most alarm-
effects to the child. No child should be put
to sleep with a person whose health is in
any way impaired.
	NEUBALGIA.—This painful disease has
been cured instantaneously by sponging the
affected part first in water as warm as could
be comfortably borne, and immediately af-
ter in cold water, and then rubbing hard
and briskly with a coarse towel. Rheumat-
ic pains have been repeatedly removed in
the same manner. This treatment will also
remove the inconvenience of cold feet.
	REMEDIES FOR COUGH.—Tea made from
slippery-elm. Or a pint of milk with a lit-
tle coal thrown in, simmered to half a pint.
An excellent syrup is made by simmering
together for half an hour, a half pint of mo-


lasses, the same of vinegar and a quarter
of a pund of raisins when cold a few drops
of laudanum may be stirred in.
	WASHING THE BLOOD.—The Journal of
Health says that the blood can as well be
washed as any other portion of the human
system; but to drink tea, coffee, chocolate,
cocoa, beer or cider does not tend to purify
the blood. On the contrary, such infusions
befoul and defile the blood. But by drink-
ing pure water often, but in small quanti-
ties, the entire inner system, including the
blood, may be thoroughly washed between
Saturday evening and Monday morning,
after which the outside skin should be well
washed.
	INCIPIENT CONSUMTION.—Dr. James C.
Jackson says, in the case of incipient con-
sumption, the patient should eat unleavened
bread, or unbolted wheat flour in some sim-
ple form of preparation. If milk is eaten it
should be skimmed.  Little sugar and no
salt should be used.  No tea, coffee or con-
diments, nor any kind of medicines should
be taken. A sitz bath three times a week
and a wash-off over the whole body the
other three days should be taken, the first
in a comfortably warm room, the latter in a
warm room. An abdominal bandage should
be worn. House labor, especially kitchen
work should be avoided, and pleasant ex-
ercise taken in the open air. Excitement
of all kinds should be avoided, and plenty
of sleep secured.


WOMAN'S VOICE

	ROCKSVILLE, KANE CO., Jan. 6th, 1875.
DEAR LULA:—
	I write according to promise, that you
may know where we are and how we are.
I am now at Sister P—'s, she that was the
widow A— when we "crossed the plains."
She is now the widow P.—, left a widow
the second time!  I came here to write be-
cause it is quiet.
The President desired us to go to Springdale
and there assist in building up a settlement.
At one time there were about twenty fami-
lies there, but they were called away they
say, into larger settlements, when the Indi-
ans were troublesome; and now there is not
much of a settlement there.  But the scen-
ery is picturesque, and it is one of the hid-
ing places of the Almighty, a very good one 
I think.  I hope to see the day when all our
family may be gathered there, and build up
Zion.  You know Zion is the pure in heart,
and I hope we may have a place there com-
posed of such, where we can live in love and
union. Not one striving in pride and selfish-
ness to gain wealth above another, but all
seeking together to benefit and improve the
state of all. Being owned and blest of the 
Lord, that He may pour out His spirit upon
us, that our sons and our daughters may
prophesy, our young men see visions and
our old men dream dreams, &c.  Does not
the signs of the times indicate that the sec-
ond coming of our Lord is near at hand?
And have not the Saints who are striving to
live their religion faithfully, reason to lift
up their hearts and rejoice, knowing that
their redemption draws near?
	The weather here is pleasant and beauti-
ful.  The sun shines as if it were summer.
There have been no storms this winter, and
the weather is not uncomfortably cool.  I 
have not felt cold and chilly, once this win-
ter, or since I came here, as I have always
done in winter time before.  Our health is
very good, for us, and I enjoy myself.
	Brigham, Jr., Joseph A., and some others


are traveling through the country, holding
meetings.  They held meeting here last eve-
ning, and Brigham gave us an excellent
discourse.
	The Lord is good, and His blessings are
with us, and we rejoice that we are among
those who have been called, and if we can
direct our lives so that we may be among
those who are chosen we shall be thrice
blest.
	For the present farewell.
						S. K. G.

	SAN BERNARDINO, CAL., Jan. 15th, 1875.
MRS. L. G. RICHARDS,
	DEAR SISTER:—Allow me one moment of
your valuable time, while I wish you all the
happiness you so richly deserve through the
New Year, now so young and blooming with
the many blessings of kind Heaven.  How
many there are who see no blessing in the
cold blasts of winter's frost and wind, or in
sickness, sorrow and death.  How few who
have the WILL to look for the "silvery lining
of the dark clouds." But I, with the "Stock-
ton Leader," do believe that if we only read
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and try to live up
to the moral and intellectual teachings there
given, we shall learn to be all that our most
ardent desires can anticipate.  And with
such earthly blessings, we need have no
fears for the "other shore."
	Please continue to send EXPONENT to my
little namesake in Beaver City.  She writes
me that she learns to read many good and
beautiful pieces in her paper, and hopes to
be as good as they teach her to be.
	We are lonely since our dear old mother
went "home" to rest.  The last reading she
heard was from the EXPONENT, which she
appreciated very much.  Pardon the lengthy
form this letter has assumed; I thought to
detain you but a moment, yet I cannot close
without mentioning the death of another
one of the good old mothers.  "Old Mother
Pine" often enjoyed reading your paper,
spoke of you in terms of sisterly regard and
wished me to remember her kind love to
you.  It was herself and husband who
brought the grandmother of the Prophet Jo-
seph from the East to Kirtland, Ohio. She
died full of faith, and had entire confidence
in the work of the Lord. 
	May prosperity smile on your noble efforts,
is the prayer of your sister,
					M. O. KELTING.

		AMERICAN FORK, Jan. 20th, 1875.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:—
	Enclosed, find money for postage on EX-
PONENT. The sisters who take the paper
here, prize it very highly for the good coun-
sel it contains.  Hoping your health and
that of your family is good, and wishing
you continued success and increasing pros-
perity, I am your sister in the Gospel,
					MARY HINDLEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"I am busy ploughing and cannot enter-
tain company now," is the substance of a
note recently written by a Macoupin Co., Ill.,
girl to a St. Louis exquisite who had met
her at a fashionable party at the latter city
and wished to visit her at home. The glo-
rious maiden is a graduate of an Illinois
seminary, and her father gave her an eighty
acre farm on condition that she should work
it herself, which she does.


FORTY-EIGHT Young Men's Christian As-
sociations own buildings to the value of two
million dollars. There are nine hundred
nd forty Young Men's Christian Associa-
ions in this country.


[Column 1]
		
	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are 12,000 periodicals taken at
the Brittish Museum,
	THERE are over one hundred logging
camps on Wolf River, Wis.
	The property of the late Congressman
Crocker is estimated at $1,000,000.
	TWELVE States have adopted compulsory
education laws, New York being the last to
do so.
	NEARLY two thousand hogs have been
shipped from West Bend, Wis., since the
opening of the packing season.
	There are 121 students in the State Agri-
cultural College at Orono Maine, five of
whom are young women.
	LOUISVILLE claims that she has heard a
greater number of operas this season than
any other city in the Union, New York not
excepted.
	SO numerous are the additions to the
library of Harvard College that new shelves
to accommodate 2,000 volumes are in course
of construction.
	GERRIT Smith left an estate worth be-
tween $700,000 and $800,000. consisting
principally of property in Oswego City,
which will probably be divided between his
two children.
	The membership of Plymouth Church is
made up of 1,504 females and 886 males,
which is not at variance with the propor-
tions of the sexes in most religious bodies.
	OLIVER Downing, a well-known Boston
architect, has just died on the day of the
funeral of his wife, he being 90 years old
and she 87, they having lived together 67
years.
	THE New Zealand Government has sent
special agents over to England for the pur-
pose of collecting a quantity of small birds
of various kinds, and a colony of humble-
bees, for introduction into that country,
	THE Earl and Countess of Dudley lost a
package of jewelry valued at $250,000 at a
railway station in England recently. They
have offered a reward of $5,000 for its re-
covery.
	KING Kalakaua has, it is said, an in-
come of $22,500 per annum. This is de-
rived from a tax of 5 cents on every $100
worth of property $1 on every horse and
$5 on every carriage owned and run in his
dominions.
	THE original discovery of Sharon's great
mine was made in 1859, when the region
was known as Washoe. Since then nearly
two hundred millions' worth of silver and
gold has been drawn from the lode.
	PARIS it is estimated, contains 120,000
women who are dependent upon their
needle for support. The highest rate of pay
is about 70 cents per day, while the aver-
age pay when fully employed, is not over
24 cents for l2 hours work. 
	SINCE the beginning of the famine in Asia
Minor 50,000 persons have migrated from
various parts of the country to the City of
Adana. Half of them have since succumbed
to disease. The strange climate and ex-
treme rapaciousness of the tax-gatherers
tend to aggravate the distress and increase
the mortality.
	CAPTAIN Boynton, of New Jersey, has
invented an apparatus, which enables a
swimmer to remain hours and even days in
the roughest water with security. He ex-

[Column 2]

hibited his patent swimming apparatus on
Monday afternoon, Oct. 26th, in Queens-
town Harbor. He swam a mile with the
greatest ease, and was three-quarters of an
hour in the water. It is stated he intends
swimming across St. George's Channel be-
fore returning to this country.


FLOWERS.

	AVOID extremes and you ward off ill
luck.
	IT is better to do and not promise than to
promise and not do.
	AVAIL yourself of all your knowledge
without making a display of it.  The ma-
chinery works best when hidden from
view.
	IT is the motto of every true heart, and
the genius of every noble life, that "no man
liveth to himself"—lives chiefly for his own
selfish good.
	IT is a law of our intellectual and mora
being that we promote our own happiness
in the exact proportion that we contribute
to the comfort and enjoyment of others.
	NOTHING worthy of the name of happi-
ness is possible in the experience of those
who live only for themselves, and oblivious
of the welfare of their fellows.
	THE lessons of life are for the most part
slowly learned.  The page is often carelessly
turned and hurriedly passed by, on which
our Great Father has written much that He
would fain have us study.
	YES, live for something worthy of life
and its capabilities and opportunities, for
noble deeds and achievments.  Every man
and every woman has his or her assignment
in the duties and responsibilities of daily
life.
	THE more people do the more they can
do.  He that does nothing renders himself
incapable of doing anything.  While we
are executing one work, we are preparing
to undertake another.
	SEE that each hour's feelings and thoughts
and actions are pure and true; then will
your life be such.  The wide pastures are
but separate spears of grass; the sheeted
bloom of the prairies but single flowers.
	WE are in the world to make the world
better; to lift it up to higher levels of en-
joyment and progress, to make its hearts
and homes brighter and happier by devot-
ing to our fellows our best thoughts, activi-
ties, and influence.
	CHEERFULNESS is an excellent wearing
quality.  It has been called the bright
weather of the heart.  It gives harmony
to the soul, and is a perpetual song without
words. It is tantamount to repose. It ena-
bles nature to recruit its strength; whereas
worry and discontent debilitate it; involv-
ing constant wear and tear.
	ADORN YOUR HOMES.—Some one writes
both gracefully and forcibly: "I would be
glad to see more parents understand that
when they spend money judiciously to im-
prove and adorn the house and the grounds
around it, they are in effect paying their
children a premium to stay at home as much
as possible and enjoy it; but when they
spend money unnecessarially in fine cloth-
ing and jewelry for their children, they are
paying them a premium to spend their time
away from home—that is, in those places
where they can attract the most attention
and make the most display."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿		DIVERSIONS.
	HORSE thieves are serenaded in Texas by
string bands.
	IF you do not like your neighbor, buy his
child a small drum.
	THE tax which presses most heavily on 
schoolboys is syntax.
	GOV. Peck of Vermont is a bachelor.
Marrying would make half a bushel of him.
	THE proper salutationwhen you meet a
writing master is, "How do you flourish?"
	A MINNESOTA man makes the winter
seem short by giving his note payable in the
spring.
	"SALLY, at what time do your folks
dine?" "Soon as you go away—that's mis-
sus' orders."
	"YOU look as if you were beside your-
self," said a wag to a fellow who stood by 
the side of an ass.
	A YOUNG lady says she longs for fingers
like the tongs of a pitchfork, with diamond
rings enough to fill them to the ends.
	"YOU don't seem to know how to take
me," said a vulgar fellow to a gentleman
whom he had insulted. "Yes, I do," said
the gentleman, taking him by the nose.
	QUEEN Victoria went to a garden party at
Chiswick recently, and a gentlemen present
told her he remembered her face, but he
couldn't for the life of him, recall her 
name.
	AN English writer says, in his advice to
young married women, that their mother 
Eve married a gardener. It might be add-
ed that the gardener, in consequence of the
match, lost his situation.
	IT'S truly astonishing how the papers,
while they persist in charging a man a dollar
an inch for advertising when living, cheer-
fully give up a whole column of space for 
nothing when his obituary comes along.
	"Do you know why you are like the third
term?" said Susan Jane to her brother, who
lingered to talk with her Adolphus after the
old folks had retired. "No, I don't." "Well,"
replied his saccharine sister, "It's becuase
you're one too many."
	"Everything goes wrong," said an Illi-
nois farmer, wiping his eyes. "The grass-
hoppers cum, the hired man broke his leg,
wife died, the barn burned, and I've rid for
three days and can't find a woman who
wants to marry."
	WHILE T. D. Jones was in Columbus mod-
elling his bust of Chase, a young man of the
Sparkler order of architects, approached
him one night at a social gathering with the
following inquiry: "Er-er—say! er-er so
you're the man-er—that makes mud heads
ain't you?" "Yes," said old Tom, blandly;
"Do you want a new one?"
	LONG ago, during the Millerite fever,
when ascension robes were in order, and all
were listening for the chariot-wheels, a good
couple had retired one night-the man
somewhat visionary, but his wife practical
enough. In the ebb of a midwinter night
he awoke, hearing a slight noise, and gently
nudged his sleeping partner.  "Wife, I hear
the chariot wheels of God." "Lie still John,
you old fool; the Lord would not come on 
wheels, with such good sleighing."
	A YOUNG man from the country lately
volunteered his services to gallant a young
lady home from a party. On his way, he
cudgelled his brains for some interesting
[Column 2]
topic of conversation to amuse her with, but
in vain; he could hit upon nothing until
they met several cows, when the swain siad,
with much simplicity of manner:—"Now,
isn't it strange what a motherly appearance
a cow has!" To which the young lady re-
plied: "I do not think it strange, sir, that a
cow should have a motherly appearance to a
calf!"
	"HOW much is your stick candy?" in-
quired a boy of a candy dealer.
	"Six sticks for five cents."
	"Six sticks for five cents, eh? Now, 
lem'me see. Six sticks for five cents, five
fer four cents, four fer three cents, three fer
two cents, two fer one cent, one fer nothin'.
I'll take one." And he walked out, leaving
the candy man in a state of bewilderment.


LITTLE FOLKS.
	A LITTLE three year old referred to the
dark brown biddy as, “Our dark complected
hen.”
	“OPEN oos boo eyes mine tat," is the way
in which a mother’s darlirig addressed his
gray pussy. 
	“Now, Sammy, tell me, have you read the
story of Joseph?" “Oh, yes, uncle.” “Well,
then, what wrong did they do when they
sold their brother?” “They sold him too
cheap, I think.”			
	“THERE is one good thing about babies,”
said a recent traveler; “they never change.
We have girls of the period, men of the
world; but the baby is the same self-pos-
sessed, fearless, laughing, voracious little
heathen in all ages and in all countries.”
	A SCHOOLBOY spelled “sob,” and when
asked to define it, blundered out: “It means
when a feller don’t want to cry, and it bursts
out itself.” Another defined a comma as “a
period with a tail.”
	The other evening a cat was making a
piteous noise outside the door, when the lit-
tle daughter of our friend, imagined it was
singing about the cold weather and said,
“Mama, I wish kitty wouldn’t sing that song
any more, it makes my toes cold.”
	A little boy in Springfield, Ill., after his
customary evening prayer, a night or two
ago, continued, “and bless mamma, and
Jerry, and Uncle Benny,” adding, after a
few moment’s pause the explanatory re-
mark, “his name is Hopkins.”  
	A LITTLE girl in Vermont called at a drug
store and said: “My mother wants ten cents’
worth of jumps.” She insisted that that
was what she had been sent for, and the
clerk had to send her back for further in-
structions. Very soon she returned, and
said it was hops that she wanted.
	WHAT A CHILD CAN DO.—A little boy
who attended a temperance meeting was
asked by his father when he returned:—
“Have you learned anything, my boy?”
“Yes, father, I have. I have learned never
to put strong drink to my lips; for it has
killed fifty thousand persons annually, and
how do I know that it will not kill me?”
	A YOUNGSTER, seven years old, who hap-
pens to be one of a dozen bright children,
was saying his evening prayer, a day or two
ago, while in a rather sleepy condition. It
is his custom to begin with, “O Lord, bless
father and mother,” and then go through
the rest by name. On this occasion he got
as far as father and mother, when his sleepi-
ness overcame him, and he finished up as
follows: “And I’m in a hurry, bless the
whole crowd;” and, in the twinkling of an
eye, was between the sheets.


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,
				GO TO
			MRS. C. E. DYE'S, 
			19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES' & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
			 Of the Latest Style.
	Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.
_______________________________________________
			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF
		    CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
					AND
		      GENERAL DRY GOODS.
                                        ____
            Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
                                        ____
                           Large Assortment of
          CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50. 
                                        ____
                 Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
                                        ____
                                H. E. PHELPS,
                                          29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
__________________________________________________
                             H. DINWOODEY
   WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
                        Largest Assortment in Utah.
  He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
                              storey Brick Store,
 FIRST SOUTHST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP CORNER.
___________________________________________________
H.    WALLACE
                                            ____
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
                                            ____
    tionary in Salt Lake City. Just the place for ladies 
                                            ____
    to purchase.
____________________________________________________
____________________________________________________
                                    CLUB RATES.
                                             ____
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns encircled with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume: 
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, -	       -	    -	         -	    - $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 	-	       -	    -	          -	    -    26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50 -	       -	    -	          -	    -    34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely frames, selling price $4	   - 	     -  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in. 
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers adn 
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT
