VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1874.			NO. 4.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A NEW submarine cable for communica-
tion between England and America, is com-
pleted. The Great Eastern is to commence
laying it during this month.
	THE POPE in early youth joined the Free
Masons. Charges were preferred against
him in 1865 which he declined meeting and,
recently, he was expelled from the Order
of the Grand Lodge of Italy. Victor Emanu-
el, as grand master of the Orient of Italy
signed the order of expulsion.
	FELONS ARE of so common occurrence
that we deem the following clipping wor-
thy of notice. “A woman in Lapeer, Mich.,
took her husband’s knife a few days ago to
open a felon; shortly after her husband used
the knife to extract a sliver from his hand,
and inoculated himself with the virus of
the felon; his hand began to swell, and in
four hours he was a raving maniac, and in
less than forty-eight hours he died.”
	MR. BRISTOW, the new Secretary of the
Treasury, commenced his duties with a dili-
gence and thoroughness that at once created
a prestige in his favor.  And now it is said
of him that he not only positively refuses
all presents but also declines to resort to the
old ruse of allowing his wife to accept them.
This we think is a noble course if consis-
tently pursued, but will not be very likely
to prove contagious at the seat of Govern-
ment.


AN EASY, GOOD-NATURED FELLOW.

	I have in my mind's eye one who prides
himself upon the above appellation, and
who makes it a point to favor every one for
the sole purpose of impressing his good-na-
ture. At different periods of his life he
has engaged in almost every avocation that
can be mentioned, and each time has made
a signal failure simply because he was so
"easy."
	Experience having taught him that his
reputation for amiability has secured him
against public censure, his reverses have
had no serious effect upon him, but his wife,
poor woman, has been the martyr.
	In the frequent intervals of idleness that
were the natural results of changes of busi-
ness, she struggled nobly, endeavoring to
make herself equal to the occasion by sup-
porting the family, sometimes by sewing,
sometimes by teaching, and occasionally by
canvassing for a new publication. These
efforts on her part were accepted by her
husband as a matter of course, and if the
neighbors indulged in an occasional sneer
at the expense of Jones, it was always modi-
fied by the apology:
	"Oh, well, Jones is such an easy, good-
natured fellow, he can't get along."
	Finally, after years of patient, unremit-
ting labor, with her past struggles folded
away in her memory and the future black
and cheerless before her, with the truth
forced upon her that she could not love the
man she had ceased to respect, she quietly
took her children and sought the paternal
roof.
	Then what a cry went up! What a howl
of persecution followed her! "If there was


any difference between them it must have
been her fault." So the women in the com-
munity said, for Jones was always so easy
and good-natured.
	And to-day, after the lapse of years, if
you pass through the village where she
wrought day and night for his support, you
will find Jones sustained by the sympathy
of his female friends. If the circumstances
of Mrs. Jones' departure is refered to, you
will hear, as other strangers have heard be-
fore you, that "it could not have been his
fault; he was too good-natured;" that al-
though his wife had seemed good enough,
she must have had a furious temper, and
was, they had no doubt, entirely to blame.


THE SEX.
	MRS. Harriet A. Tracy is President of
the Temperance Union of Langsing, Michi-
gan.
	DR. Lenora Foster, of Otsego, was one of
the delegates to the American Medical As-
sociation in session at Detroit.
	MRS. Hill, sister of Sir Noel Paton, has
furnished the design for a statue that is to
be erected in honor of Dr. Livingstone.
	MISS Sarah McGoldrick of Detroit, Mich.,
has been confirmed by the Board of Educa-
tion as Assistant Secretary of that body.
	MRS. Martha Walker Cook, a sister of the
late Hon. Robert Walker, is translating the
works of Krasinski, the great Polish poet.
	MRS. Sarah Kidder, of Livermore, Me.,
will be one hundred and three years old in
October next, and is probably the oldest per-
son in the State.
	MRS. Dr Baldwin, a missionary on the
Sandwich Islands for 44 years, having gone
thither in 1830, died there recently, 68 years
of age.
	THE Polish Princess Czartoryska has
make over the whole of her immense for-
tune and vast landed possessions to a Ro-
man Catholic convent at Posen.
	MRS. Lidia Blankinship, of Marion Mass.,
died on Monday, at the extreme age of one
hundred years, one month and eleven days.
On her hundredth birthday she was in good
health and attended church.
	MRS. C. F. Corbin, of Evanstown, Ill., re-
cently read a paper on Enlightened Mother-
hood. Of all the children born in Christen-
dom, only one half, she said, reach the age
of six years.
	MISS Sophia Flora Heilborn, well known
to all European readers as an accomplished
pianist and musician, purposes visiting this
country with her family, and will arrive
here early in July.
	QUEEN Victoria lately refused to receive
at a “drawing room” a lady who, having
been divorced from her first husband, still
living, has married again; and this though
her introducer was a duchess.
	MISS Clara Louise Kellog, Miss Adelade
Phillips, and the Temple Quartette, of Bos-
ton, furnished the musical part of the exer-
cises when Mr. Georgo William Curtis de-
livered his memorial oration on Senator Sum-
ner before the State authorities of Massa-
chusetts.
	THE wife of the Rev. Henry W. Hale has
taken with her husband the entire course in
the Baptist Theological Seminary at New-
ton, Mass. and received the usual degree—
the first ever conferred on a woman by that
institution. Both are under appointment as
missionaries.
	MISS Mary E. Woodman, formerly of East
Concord, about a year since went to Liver-
pool with an uncle who is a sea captain, and
from thence she sailed, without friends or
acquaintances, to Oporto, Portugal, where
she opened a select school and gave instruc-
tion in English, French and music. Her
school is now very successful, and is patron-
ized by some of the first families in Oporto.
Her success shows what a brave young girl
can do when she goes to work in earnest.
	MRS. Lizzie Waters, wife of Dr. Waters
of Terre Haute, Ind., is said to be an artist
of unusual talent and promise. For the
past two years she has neglected the easel,
and devoted her time and attention mainly
to the languages. She has, however, par-
tially completed a piece entitled “The Rif-
ted Rock.” for a society in New York, the
contract price of which is $500. It gives
promise of rare beauty, and is entirely or-
riginal.
	A LIFE-LIKE glimpse of the domestic life
of Hawthorne and his wife, is given in “Har-
per’s Magazine,” which says that after the po-
et’s removal from the Salem custom house,
and he didn’t see exactly where future din-
ners were to come from, his wife wrote to
a friend. She said that she met his anxious
face and words by telling him that she had
saved from his earnings enough to keep
them in bread and rice for a few weeks, and
was so glad that he could now write his ro-
mance, and would have a fire kindled im-
mediately in the study. Then she asked
her friend what she could do to keep up the
household supplies when the bread and rice
were gone. This friend, her most affection-
ate counselor through life, knowing Mrs.
Hawthorne’s taste and skill in art,suggested
that she could make lamp-shades in lovely
forms, decorated with figures from Flaxman,
in her beautiful penciling. She employed
herself constantly with this work until
Hawthorne’s first pecuniarily successful
book was published, the “Scarlet Letter.”
the estimate of Mrs. Hawthorne’s mental
powers was very high by those who knew
her best. The one to whom the Easy Chair
is so much indebted for the judgement of
the truest intimacy says that the wife was
not, as has been said, on a different intel-
lectual plane from the husband, although
their mental idiosyncracies were singularly
contrasted, making the equal union only the
more beautiful.


﻿CRUELTY to dumb animals is one of the
distinguishing vices of the basest of the peo-
ple. Wherever it is found, it is a certain
mark of ignorance and meanness; an intrin-
sic mark, which all the external advantages
of wealth, splendor and nobitity cannot ob-
literate.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


LINES.

ADDRESSED TO THE LADIES OF THE SPRINGVILLE
			RETRENCHMENT SOCIETY.

	My sisters, dear, yours is a glorious task;
	What more sublime employ could angels ask,
	Than thus to strive to stem the wild excess,
	Which ever leads to shame and wretchedness?
	To use your potent gifts in virtue’s cause,
	The vile deceits of gilded vice disclose,
	That all may shun the yawning gulf that lies
	Conceal’d from thoughtless, unsuspecting eyes:
	To check the mad extravagance and pride
	That sweeps the earth— a devastating tide.
	To help those liable to be decoyed
	And teach them shame’s dread vortex to avoid;
	By precepts, and example’s mightier voice,
	Teach frail humanity a nobler choice,
	To say, to captives bound by vice’s chain,
	“Come! we will help you freedom to regain:
	Come! leave the dark and crooked ways of sin,
	And try, in virtue’s cause a crown to win:
	Forsake the drunkard’s soul-destroying drink,
	Arise from ignorance! reflect and think;
	Come! let the errors of the past suffice,
	And now to wisdom’s treasures lift your eyes;
	Come! father, brother, husband, sister, friend,
	Let us the hill of endless fame ascend;
	Come! let us walk in glory’s shining way,
	Come! let us travel to the realms of day."
	Such gentle preachers sure will be received,
	A purer mission, scarce can be conceived.
	Such noble use of soft persuasive speech
	Will find few hearts so hard it may not reach.
	While blessing others in your grand employ,
	Yourselves will reap a never ending joy;
	And holy beings in the realms above,
	Will look with rapture on your works of love.
	God bless, and aid you in your great design,
	Till you among the Queens’ of Heaven shall shine.
MARCH 14TH, 1874.						W. C.


R. S. REPORTS.

			BEAVER CITY, July 1st, 1874.
EDITOR  WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Young Ladies Association was organ-
ized December 13th, 1873, with Mrs. Har-
riet E. Fotheringham for President; Mrs.
Harriet E. Shepherd, Mrs. Christena Levi,
Mrs. Eunice Greenwood, Miss Agnes Lebar-
ren (now Mrs. Hutchings), Miss Aurelia
Walker, Miss Mary A. Greenwood for Coun-
selors, and Miss Ida T. Hunt, Secretary.
Our meetings are pretty well attended and
those who attend feel well in the Work.
About thirty of us met on Saturday morn-
ing, June 13th, and spent the time, besides
partaking of a picnic dinner, in sewing car-
pet-rags until three o'clock, when we com-
menced our meeting, according to adjourn-
ment. Opened by singing, and prayer by
Sister Gillies, and singing. The minutes
of the last meeting were read and accepted.
The Secretary, Miss Ida F. Hunt, having
been called to perform other important du-
ties, could not attend and Miss Eliza E.
Parkinson was elected to act in her stead.
Selections from the EXPONENT, and Wo-
man's Journal were read by Miss Alice Ty-
ler, Miss I. Farnsworth and Miss Ellen Lee.
Interesting and appropriate remarks were
made by Miss Melissa White, Miss Mary A.
Greenwood, Miss Emeline Adair, Mrs. Houd,
Mrs. Gillies, Mrs. Fotheringham, Miss Ellen
Lee and Miss Mary Lumblad. The chief
subjects chosen for reading and discourse
were education, dress, reformation and
prayer. Mary Crosby was elected a mem-
ber. Meeting adjourned until June 27th,
1874. Closed with singing and benediction
by Mrs. Houd.
		HARRIET E. FOTHERINGHAM,
							President.
	ELIZA E. PARKENSON, Secretary.
			CENTREVILLE, July 13, 1874.
	The Relief Society of this place held its
fifth annual meeting June 24th. Meeting
opened with singing and prayer. The min-
utes of the previous meeting were read, al-
so the Financial reports of the past year.
President Mrs. Margaret H. Randall advised
the sisters to so live  that they might know
the truth for themselves and not let their
faith be the reflection of other people's—To
be a help to their husbands and to carry
their own share of life's burdens as well as
enjoy a portion of life's comforts—Gave
some good advice upon dress, the selecting
and making up of such material as would
be becoming to the wearer and her station
in life—Spoke of the importance of sustain-
ing ourselves as far as possible and gave
some good suggestions upon the subject of 
health. Counselor Mrs. Rebecca Porter ad-
vised the sisters to keep in the line of duty
and to improve their minds by reading,
studying and thinking, and to bear in mind
that each must earn her own salvation for a
husband, friend or neighbor cannot perform
her spiritual work. Several of the sisters
bore testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
The few poor in this place have been helped
to what they most needed. The Society
have paid one installment of twenty-five
dollars on the organ for our meeting house,
and have bought some furniture for our
hall. The sisters have donated twenty-five
dollars to the P. E. Fund.
	The members are united in their efforts
to do good and to make a good school of
the Society where we may improve intel-
lectually as well as spiritually. We ought
never to be satisfied with any attainment
which we may have but have a desire to
progress and thankfully improve the oppor-
tunity we have through the Relief Society
for self improvement. The people, here
have organized into a United Order, so far
things have gone on smoothly and satisfac-
tory to all.
		MARIETTA ADAMS, Secretary.


VISIT TO TOOELE AND PINE
			KANYON.

	On Wednesday, the 17th of last month,
the following named sisters, M. I. Horne,
E. Howard, Z. D. Young, and E. R. Snow
went by carriage, (which with team, was
kindly furnished by Bro. W. Howard) to
Tooele City. We were graciously received
and cordially welcomed by Mrs. Miklejohn,
Pres. of the Relief Society in that place,
and by her husband.
	Thursday at 10, we attended Society
meeting in the commodious Meeting House,
with a large assembly of sisters, and a few
prominent brethren. At 2, we again met,
and, after other services, organized a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association, com-
posed of between sixty and seventy mem-
bers. In the evening as many of those
young ladies as could be seated met with
us at the residence of brother Miklejohn,
and we had a very interesting time giving
them words of counsel, encouragement and
instruction. The next morning, brother
Miklejohn remarked that it was the most
beautiful sight he had ever seen.
	The next forenoon we met with a large
congregation in the Meeting House: when
near the close of the service, brother James
Dunn came to the stand, and read a beauti-
ful poem, written by himself, entitled
"Welcome to Sister Snow and Company."—
The following extract shows that Br. Dunn
is no unpracticed writer:
	"Sisters in Christ, we bid you welcome here;
	     Our homes are brighter for your pleasant "call:"
	Our hearts are warmer—and the silent tear
	     Of holy friendship, at your presence falls.
	Your suasion fires us, as with hearts of steal,
	     To stand for God, and battle for the right:
	Your words are simple, but they make us feel
	     To press on heav'nward with a giant's might.
				*	*	*	*	*
	When men like Brigham, point, and lead the way,
	     And wives like you, join in the noble cause;
	No powers of darkness can our progress stay.
	     Altho' they fill the world with hellish laws."
	The entire poem is worthy of publication,
but the other portion being highly compli-
mentary to ourselves, are withheld, lest we
should be suspected of vanity.
	In the afternoon, accompanied by several
of the brethren and sisters of Tooele, we
rode to pine Kanyon—dined with Br. and
Sr. Martin—attended Relief Society meet-
ing, Sr. Steele presiding—organized a Young
Ladies' Association—returned to Tooele and
spent an interesting evening at Br. Mikle-
john's, with the officers of the R. Society,
and as many others as could be accommo-
dated.
	In all these meetings, the spirit of the
Lord was copiously poured out and we had
a refreshing time. The Tooele Choir was
punctually in attendance when we met in
the Meeting House, and added much to the
interest and enjoyment of those occasions.
One excellent and very noticeable feature
in the sweet music of this Choir, is the plain
and distinct pronunciation of the words,
which adds intelligence to sound.
	We were highly pleased with the spirit
manifested by our sisters wherever we went
—not only in their affectionate reception of
us but, what is of the greatest importance,
we found many of them truly alive to the
interests of the Kingdom of God. Our vis-
it with them will long be retained in our
memories, as one of the green spots in thejourney of life.
				ONE OF THE PARTY.
	S. L. CITY, July 1, 1873.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	CHARLESTON, S.C., is to have ice of home
manufacture at $1 a hundred weight this 
summer.	
	A LOT, containing 2,210 square feet, in 
the midst of the business part of London, 
was recently sold for over $160,000 or $72. 
50, gold, per square foot.	
	A CURIOUS and beautiful effect was pro-
duced by an ice-making machine in Phila- 
delplia. It was a cake of manufactured 
ice, in the center of which, completely in-
closed in the translucent material, was a 
bouquet of fresh flowers. Every leaf and 
flower was perfectly visible, while the
brilliancy of the colors was enhanced by the
refraction through the ice.
	IT is stated that the effect of heat and
cold, in expanding and contracting the iron
of the dome of the national Capitol, is such 
that the collossal statue, surmounting it in- 
clines four and a half inches to the west in
the forenoon, and the same distance to the
east in the afternoon. This fact has been
ascertained by fixing a plumb line to the
statue and dropping it to the rotunda be-
low.	
	ST. Augustine, Florida, is the oldest Eu- 
ropean settlement in the United States. It
was founded by the Spaniards, and a large
portion of the inhabitants are of Spanish
descent. With its convents, ruined gate-
ways, quaint cathedral, and houses of Span-
ish build, their balconies overshadowing the
narrow streets, it still resembles some Old
World towns. The remains of the fort of
St. Mark’s, overlooking the sea, crumbling,
and verdant with vegetation, have much 
the appearance of the ruined castles of the
middle ages.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			PRAYER.

	The importance of prayer is something
that we should study more than we do, for
I do not think any of us fully realize how
necessary prayer is to our happiness. With-
out it we cannot become true Saints in
thought,  word and deed. We must have
the Spirit of God continually with us in or-
der to live our religion faithfully, and that
Spirit can only be obtained and retained
through earnest prayer.
	We are taught that we must be tried even
as gold seven times purified. This seems as
though we were to be pretty severely tried,
yet through constant prayer to our Heavenly
Father we will obtain strength from Him
so that we will be enabled to pass through
every ordeal so easily that we will scarcely
realize that we are being tried. Then, Oh!
how careful we should be to humble our-
selves daily before the Lord to seek His
strength, comfort and guidance. There is
no true happiness in taking any other course;
it is true, we may have fleeting pleasures
that will vanish away but through prayer
and humility, we may have constant peace,
joy and contentment—three of the greatest
boons that were ever given to mortal beings.
I often feel that it would be as impossible
for me to be a saint without prayer as it
would for our natural bodies to exist without
food. We have heard it said that the step-
ping stone to apostacy is the neglect of
prayer, and I truly believe this to be so, for
the mind becomes darkened and, conse-
quently the Evil  One has a good chance to
slip in and introduce doubt and false doc-
trines when, if we were living in the line
of our duty, we would instantly repel the
first advance of the adversary directed
against our true peace. Finding fault with
those in authority is generally the starting
point of these evils, so that if we ever have
this feeling we may know to what it will
lead us if not checked. I would exhort my
young sisters, while in the beginning of life
to attend strictly to their prayers and they
will always have wisdom to know the right
from the wrong and have power given them
to choose the right under all circumstances
that they may be instruments in the hands
of God in helping to roll forth this great and
glorious latter-day work.			M. A. F.


[For the Exponent.]
MOTHERS AND INFANTS AT HOME.

	All mothers are aware that as soon as a
child begins to understand its surroundings,
its mind stretches forth after further infor-
mation. Even before it can either walk or
talk its little hands are put forth to grasp
and examine whatever may come within its
reach. Soon it comes to mother with num-
berless questions on the most unaccountable
subjects and believes that what she says
must be true and puts most implicit faith
in her words. I have often been puzzled to
answer these little questions, for I think it
is very important that we answer them cor-
rectly,as impressions made in childhood are
never effaced. How many mothers fail to
appreciate this loving confidence reposed in
them by their little ones.
	It was distressing to me a short time
since to see the look of wondering doubt de-
picted on the countenance of a little girl at a
most unlikely answer given her by her, not
careless but thoughtless mother, and which
called forth these reflections. How neces-
sary that we should take every opportunity
for adding to our stock of information in
every possible way that we may be ready


to gratify their desire for knowledge and
thus develop within them the germs of
thought and observation, loosing no oppor-
tunity of implanting within them an earnest
faith in God and in his over-ruling provi-
dences.
	I have heard some of my sisters say "I
have no time to read, my family duties occu-
py all my time and attention." I realize that
mothers have plenty, and often too much
work to do but as I heard a beloved sister say
not long since "My spirit needs feeding as
well as my body." After a long, busy day
when all the little ones are peacefully as-
leep I generally sit down and read for half an
hour from choice books or papers which re-
freshes me more than sleep besides furnish-
ing me with food for thought the next day.
I like the EXPONENT for this, its articles are
short and pithy, much in little and to the 
point.
	Being at a neighbor's the other day I
noticed her baby boy try to draw out his
mother's chair and then went to the table,
reached the paper and brought it to her.
She said to me, by way of explanation, "He
wants me to take him." "Sister" I said,
"you are not only learning yourself, by tak-
ing every opportunity to read good read-
ing, but you are instilling into his very na-
ture a love for it, creating an appetite which
will grow with him, and a taste for reading
good books is by no means to be despised for
when the head and  heart is filled with
good there is less room for evil."
						ANNE NIOBE.


ENGAGING MANNERS.—There are a thousand
pretty engaging little ways which every
person may put on without running the
risk of being deemed affected or foppish.
The sweet smile, the cordial bow, the ear-
nest movemet in addressing a friend, the
inquiring glance, the graceful attention
which is so captivating when united with
self-possession—these will insure us the
regards of even a churl. Above all there
is a certain softness of manner which should
be cultivated, and which in either man or
woman, adds a charm that almost entirely
compensates for lack of beauty, and inesti-
mably enhances the latter if it does exist.


MATRIMONIAL INCOMPATIBILITIES.—
A couple are no sooner married than they
find that differences of opinion and mutual
jars ensue, and all is not gold that glistened;
and then one or both straightway imagine
that there is no remedy but in ruthlessly
breaking the solemn, sacred tie that binds
them. A vague, restless feeling seizes up-
on one or both, producing discontent, en-
gendering a certain thought of present bon-
dage which exists mostly in fancy, and cre-
ating a feverish desire for other associations
and spheres which are supposed to be
more fitted and providentially designed for
the mind and heart. No escape, it is said,
but in cutting the knot. It is a delusion.
The marriage relation, in all its history,
was never expected, perhaps, to be entirely
free from misunderstandings and discords.
Foolish to think that the whole mutual life
can flow on, like the earlier stream, with-
out a ripple or eddy. Home is a school
wherein husband and wife are to get rid of
their angularities, harmonize their peculiar
characteristics, and more and more become
one in thought, sympathy and life. The
true blessedness of wedded souls is not in-
sured by a simple exchange of plighted faith.
It comes through and after many a self-de-
nial, many a sacrifice of the will, many a
scourging of the resentment, anger, pride,
vanity and passion of the heart.


﻿FLOWERS.
	BOOKS, like friends, should be well used,
not abused.
	IT is not what we make, but what we save,
that makes us rich.
	IT is conferring a kindness to deny at once 
a favor which you intend to refuse.
	THE weakness of the heart is sometimes
stronger than its strength.
	IF praying does not cause us to leave off
sinning, sinning will soon make us leave off
praying.
	IT is only by labor that thought can be
made healthy, and only by thought that la-
bor can be made happy.
	THE beloved of the Almighty are the rich
who have the humility of the poor, and the
poor who have the magnanimity of the rich.
—“Saadi.”
	AN ass laden with salt was crossing a
brook. The water diluted the salt, and
lightened the burden. He communicated
his discovery to a brother donkey, laden
with wool. The latter tried the same experi-
ment, and found his load double its weight.
	IN these lives of ours, tender little acts
do more to bind hearts together than great
deeds or heroic words, since the first are
like the dear daily bread that none can live
without, the latter but occasional feasts—
beautiful and memorable but not possible to
all.
	DO the very best you can and then take
things as they come. If a man strives with
his best knowledge, energy and untiring la-
bor to accomplish a cortain object, working
with skill and patience, he is a success,
whether the scheme fails or succeeds, and
he ought to reconcile himself to failure if
it is inevitable. If his labors have been
of brain and hand, he is better fitted to suc-
ceed in other undertakings.
	IN all grades of human intelligence and
culture there are three cycles of develop-
ment—the physical, the intellectual, the
spiritual. That which is rational in man is
higher than the animal, and that which is
spiritual higher than the rational. To de-
velop the animal is to develop the lowest
nature—to develop the intellectual is to de-
velop the intermediate nature—to develop
the spiritual is to develop the highest nature
of man—that which makes him God-like,
that which reaches forth to eternity, with
no limit to its growing capacity.


THE PRESENT CENTUTY.—In 1807, Fulton
took out the first patent for the invention of
the steamboat.
	The first steamboats which made regular
trips across the Atlantic Ocean were the Sir-
ius and the Great Western in 1838.
	In 1813, the streets of London were for
the first time lighted with gas.
	About the year 1832, the first railroad in
the United States was completed.
	In 1840 the first experiments in photo-
graphy were made by Daguerre.
	The anthracite coal business may be said
to have begun in 1820.
	In 1836 the first patent for the invention
of matches was granted. 
	In 1844 the first telegram was sent.
	The first successful trial of a reaper took
place in 1833.		
In 1845 Elias Howe, obtained a patent for
his first sewing machine. 
	THE EMPRESS of Germany is said to
dress very plainly.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
       CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, July 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
			   LOCAL.
	Father Kington, who joined the church
in England, in the early part of that mis-
sion, died at Wellsville on the 1st.......Mr.
Paul A. Schuttler, City Treasurer, was struck
with paralysis in the right side, since then
he has partially recovered......Elder H. H.
Cluff and wife have recently returned from a
nearly five years mission to the Sandwich 
Islands......The firemen are to have a grand
excursion to Ogden on the 16th.....Soda
Springs, Idaho, is becoming quite a summer
resort....The Military post at Beaver has
been named Fort Cameron in honor of Cel.
Jas. Cameron who was killed in battle, July
21, '61......A P. O. money-order clerk, in
this City, has disappeared since he was
charged with imbezzling four hundred
dollars; though it is said that he "covered
in" the amount.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	The Mammoth, it is rumored, has been
seen alive by a Russian convict: these huge
animals, it is believed, have become extinct
although the bodies of many are still found
in the vast, frozen regions of eastern Sibe-
ria........Silk worms fed with certain propor-
tions of indigo mixed, just before feeding
with the mulberry leaves, are said to have
spun blue cocoons, and when "Bignonia
ched" was used red cocoons were obtained
.....An eminent French physcian, says he
never knew a case of Hydrophobia to fail of
recovery where the patient was repeatedly
treated with vapor baths, varying in heat
from 57 to 63° centigrade.....A national
convention of chemists to be held Aug. 1,
1874, is proposed as a centennial celebration,
1774 being a memorable year for research
and discovery in chemistry.
			GENERAL.
	The Primate of Brazil is dead.....Constan-
tinople has been shaken by an earthquake
.......A cooper named Cullman, on the 13th,
attempted to assassinate Prince Bismarck
who escaped, the ball only grazing his wrist
.....The war in Spain is unabated......A vi-
olent thunder storm in London on the 11th,
resulted in several fatal accidents......A res-
ervoir at Middlefield, Mass., covering nearly
one hundred acres, broke away flooding the
country before it. No loss of life is repor-
ted.....The question as to whether a brewer
is eligible to the office of an elder in the free 
church of Scotland has been raised.....Ten
counties in Minnesota and Iowa are devas-
tated by the grasshoppers......The Medical
Faculty in New York have held a meeting
to consider the best method of treating Hy-
drophobia, now so prevalent there.....Dr.
Julius Eckman, the pioneer Jewish Rabbi
in California, died in San Francisco on the
5th......The tailoreses of New York are
organizing a protective union......Ice is
bought for $1,50 a ton in Maine, and sold
for $29 in New York......The Ohio papers
are dicusssing the new State constitution,
which is to be voted by the people, next
August.......A lady student takes the high-
est honors at the Indiana State University
this year....A woman advertises in a Min-
esota paper that she will tell in her lectures,
what makes Mormonism so attractive to the
men......There were very destructive floods,
last month, in the Rio Grande valley, sev-
eral towns washed away and large tracts of
cultivated land inundated......Miss Francis
E. Willard was defeated in the Illinois Re-
publican Convention as a candidate for State
Superintendent of Public Instruction......
The General Assembly of The Established
Church of Scotland have unanimously given
the right of suffrage to all female commu-
nicants.
			LITERARY.
	Dr. Livingstone's son has given up a prom-
ising career in Egypt for the purpose of ed-
iting the correspondence and other literary
materials left by his father.....Blanchard
Jerrold is writing a “Life of Napoleon III”
from materials supplied by the Empress Eu-
genie......In Paris, painting is said to pay
better than writing......The Emperor of
China has commanded a selection of Chinese
poetry from the earliest ages, to be formed.
The Emperor’s library contains over 400,
000 volumes......“Othello” has been pub-
lished in the Hebrew language at Vienna
......Ralph Waldo Emerson, the author, is in
his seventy-second year.
			PERSONAL.
	C. F. Conant of New Hampshire has ac-
cepted the office of Asst. Secretary of the
Treasury.....Chief-Justice Waite will spend
the summer at St. Albans, Vt.......Marshal
Concha, of the Republican army in Spain
was killed in a late battle with the Carlists
......The Pope is reported to be growing
weaker daily......John Mitchell, the noted
Irish exile sailed for Ireland on the 11th
inst. He expects to become a candidate
for Parliament.....Agnes Strickland, an
historical writer, died on the 13th, aged
68......Rev. H. W. Beecher asks for an in-
vestigation and Theodore Tilton is willing
to help the matter along.


POSITION AND DUTIES.

	The Latter-day Saint women of Utah occupy
a more important position than is occupied by
any other women on the earth. Associated, as
they are, with apostles and prophets inspired
by the living God—with them sharing in the
gifts and powers of the holy Priesthood by
which, through the merits of our Great Re-
deemer, we have access to, and hold commu-
nion with the Father of our spirits—participa-
ting in those sacred ordinances, without which,
we could never be prepared to dwell in the pres-
ence of the Holy Ones. Who can fully appre-
ciate our blessings; and who is capable of real-
izing the weight of the responsibilities resting
upon us? Where much is given, much is re-
quired.
	“The time, the set time” has come, and the
kingdom of God is now being established. In
this great Work, woman has much to do—not
only in giving birth to, and training those who
shall be the mothers of future generations, the
“polished stones” in Zion, prophetesses and
holy women—those who shall be the future
apostles, prophets, patriarchs and rulers of na-
tions, but she also has much to do in the intri-
cate labors consequent on the introduction and


establishment of the higher and purer form of
government—eradicating the traditions, preju-
dices, prepossessions, false habits and practices
which have gained possession of the hearts of
the people during the long absence of the ful-
ness of the Gospel with its Priesthood, powers
and blessings. She has much to do in purify-
ing, refining and elevating society; for, in all
countries and among all nations, female char-
acter is the index to, or exponent of society at
large.
	It is admitted by many intelligent, observing
people that woman’s influence is paramount to
that of man’s in modeling and in giving shade
and tone to national character. “Show me the
women of a nation, and I will describe the
character of that nation,” has been pertinently
remarked, with how much consistency we leave
others to judge.
	With the Saints the interests of man and
woman are one in every sense of the word, and
this mutual interest is productive of mutual
effort; and in many directions, a combination
of labors.
	Here, outside the boundary of her domestic
routine, woman has many sacred, important
duties to perform, and a holy, purifying influ-
ence to wield—an influence which, although
imperceptibly exercised, is potent in its effects.
How necessary, then, that the Latter-day Saint
women—being called to act in a wider sphere,
and with higher and more responsible duties
devolving upon them, than all others—should
be well informed on all subjects affecting the
interests of humanity—should posses all the ex-
pansion of mind that can be acquired and the
attainment of all useful intelligence and true
knowledge. They should not only be prepared
to ornament society but also to accomplish an
important part in elevating it to a higher stan-
dard than is elsewhere known on earth.
							E. R. S.


﻿THE PEOPLE’S TICKET.

	A meeting composed of prominent citizens,
Mayor Wells presiding, was held at the City
Hall, on the 10th, to nominate candidates for
the territorial and local officers to be elected on
the f[-]rst Monday in August next. The merits
of the different persons nominated were freely
canvassed. The discussion resulted in the fol-
lowing candidates being accepted for the "Peo-
ple's Ticket:"
	For Delegate to Congress, George Q. Cannon;
Commissioners to locate University lands, John
Rowberry, John Van Cott, Lewis S. Hills,
Representatives to the Legislative Assembly,
Orson Pratt, John Taylor, A. P. Rockwood,
Thos. Taylor, Albert Carrington, John Sharp;
Probate Judge, Elias Smith; Selectman, Reu-
ben Miller; Sheriff, Salt Lake County, Stephen
W, Taylor; County Surveyor, Salt Lake Coun-
ty, Abr'm F. Doremus; Superintendent of Com-
mon Schools, for Salt Lake County, Mary E.
Cook; Precinct officers, First Precinct, Salt
Lake City, Adam Speirs, J. P., George Hilton;
Constable; Second Precinct,E. W. East, J. P.,
W. S. Burton, Constable; Third Precinct, Jeter
Clinton, J. P., Milando Pratt, Constable;
Fourth Precinct, A. C. Pyper, J. P., B. Y.
Hampton, Constable; Fifth Precinct, Jacob
Gibson J. P., Wm. Clark, Constable.
	Since the above nominations were made Mr.
J. Clinton has resigned and Mr. A. H. Raleigh’s
name substituted by the People's Territorial
Central Committee which has been organized
as follows: John Sharp, chairman, D. O. Cal-
der, John R. Winder, J. P. Freeze, John T.
Caine, Feramorz Little, J. M. Benedict, E. F. 
Sheets, A. M. Cannon, George Crismon, mem-


bers. A M. Musser, corresponding secretary
and Theodore McKean, secretary.
	These names are now before the people for
the acceptance or rejection of the majority.
We shall support this ticket and we commend
it to the lady voters of this territory.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LAKE SIDE EXCURSION.

	There will be an excursion to Lake Side on
the twenty-eighth inst. The Retrenchment
Associations and Relief Societies are invited to
attend; they can secure tickets for the round
trip for one dollar each. This will no doubt be
an enjoyable time, as there will be music, danc-
ing, and preparations for bathing in the Lake,
with an abundance of shade, and plenty of
pure cold water.
		Committee of Arrangements:
						MRS. W. EAST,
						MRS. E. DAVIS.
	We thank the sisters for a complimentary,
and sincerely hope they will have a time of
pleasant enjoyment.


﻿RECEPTION.

	The ladies of the 14th Ward Relief Society
intend giving a Reception this evening in hon-
or of our delegate to Congress, the Hon. George
Q. Cannon. We expect a report of the pro-
ceedings will appear in our next issue.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon arrived home, from
Washington, on the 1st inst. Several promi-
nent citizens went by special train to Ogden to
quietly welcome our honored Territorial Dele-
gate.
	The “FOURTH” was celebrated in the Settle-
-ments generally by appropriate ceremonies. In
this city it was the quietest one known for
years but none the less enjoyable. Excursions
seemed to be the favorite means of recreation.
	A TEMPORARY guard-house has been estab-
lished in the city, by the officer in command at
Camp Douglass. It is situated on first South
street. A provost guard, consisting of one com-
missioned officer and several soldiers are to be
stationed there night and day to look after dis-
orderly soldiers.
	MR. GEORGE B. Taylor the Supreme Com-
mander of the Independent Champion of the
Red Cross in the United States, delivered a lec-
ture on the “Horrors of the Liquor Traffic" at
the Old Tabernacle, on the 12th. The lecturer
ably treated his subject and was listened to with
good attention.
	A FIERCE thunder and rain storm occurred
about the 6th inst. in this locality. Houses in
this City, at West Jordan and Bountiful were
struck with lightning, frightening the inmates
and injuring the buildings. At West Jordan
two children, in the house that was struck, were
killed, and in the vicinity two horses and a cow
were also killed.
	A MEETING held at Tooele City, July 13,
placed the following names on the People’s
Ticket, for Tooele County: for representative in
the Legislature, George Atkin; probate judge,
John Roberry; sheriff, W. H. Lee; recorder, R.
Warburton; selectman, G. W. Bryan; treasur-
er, F. Atkin, Jr.: supt. of common schools, A.
Galloway.
	THE MINUTES of the City Council held Tues,
14th inst., contain the following in relation to
the grand Jubilee, to take place on the Twenty-
fourth: Petition of George Goddard on behalf
of the executive committee on the coming jubi-
lee, asking that Washington Square be thrown
open for teams coming in the city from the
south on the day of the jubilee; also that places
be set apart for teams coming to the city from
the north on that day, and that guards be pro-
vided to protect property, was referred to the
marshal, with instructions to act in accordance
with the prayer of the petition.
	A PROCLAMATION by the governor of the
Territory, dated July 14th, fixes the times and
places of holding the Territorial Supreme and
District Courts as follows: The Supreme Court
to be held in this city, on the second Monday
in January and the first Monday in June of
each year. The First District Court to be held
in Provo, on the third Monday in the months
of September, November, February and May
of each year. The Second District Court to be
held in Beaver City, on the first Monday in
September, November, February and April, re-
spectively, of each year. The Third District
Court to be held in Salt Lake City, on the first
Monday in the months of October, December,
March and May respectively of each year.
	THE FOLLOWING order has been issued by the
Supreme Court.
	“Territory of Utah, }
	 Supreme Court,     }
			“SALT LAKE CITY, July 8, 1874.
	“Present, McKean, Chief Justice, Emerson,
Associate.
	“It is ordered that the following persons be,
and they are hereby appointed commissioners
of this Court, to have and exercise the author-
ity and duties conferred by law, to wit:
	“Charles W. Emerson, to reside at Provo
City, First Judicial District.
	“James R. Wilkins, to reside at Beaver, Sec-
ond Judicial District.
	“Dennis J. Toohy and N. Kimball,'to reside
at Salt Lake City, Third Judicial District."
	THE FOLLOWING extract from the Millennial
Star of June 16, concerning the unusually low
fares this season, may be of interest to those
who still have friends in Europe. “The next
company will leave Liverpool on the 24th of
this month, (June) the fare to Ogden being the
same as that of the present company—namely,
adults, £12 16—children, under twelve years,
at half fare, and infants, under 1 year, 10 shill-
ings each, with the benefit of any reduction
that there might be at the time of booking the
passengers. Children under five years, will go
free of charge on the railroad from New York.
	It is impossible to say how long these low
prices across the sea will continue; but, un-
doubtedly, the breach—which has caused the
reduction from six guineas to three pounds,
from Liverpool to New York—if not restored
will, as far as possible, be repaired by the ship-
ping companies interested, as soon as they can
effect that object."


DIVERSIONS.

	ABOUT women—Men.
	THE dead of winter—Flies.
	THE hymn for the Centennial—Old Hun-
dred.
	CHEMISTS say no matter is ever lost.
Printers deny it.
	FARMERS gather what they sow, while 
seamstresses sew what they gather.
	A NEW definition for an old maid is, a
woman that has been made a long time.
	"MONEY is very tight," said a thief, who
was trying to break open a bank vault.
	MADDER colors red. This is the reason
why, the madder you get, the redder you 
grow.
	A WESTERN paper announces the death
of a lady celebrated for the "purity of her
character and complexion."
	THE man who wanted to take another
person apart when he had something to say
to him, lately asked for the private ear of a
friend, and was told that privateering was
illegal.
	JENKINS told his son, who proposed to 
buy a cow in partnership, to be sure and buy 
the hinder half, as it eats nothing and gives
all the milk.
	A WRITER in a sympathetic paragraph, ob-
served that "Mr. Smith could hardly bear
the loss of his wife," only to find that the
printer had made it "Mr. Smith could hardly 
bear such a boss for a wife."
	A TRICKY horse-jockey owned a notori-
ously vicious horse that was one day levied 
upon by the sheriff, and advertised to be
sold for debt. "Very well," said the jockey,
if the sheriff can sell that horse to anybody
in this country, he is welcome to do so.
I've tried hard to sell him, and gave it up
long ago."
	AN Indianapolis editor is responsible for
this: "A young lady in Indiana sought to de-
molish an unfaithful lover by publishing
some verses addressed to him, in which,
after prophesying her immediate dissolution
she said: 'Come gaze upon my dust, false 
one.' But the compositor spelled dust with
a 'b.'"
	A MAN sent a note to a rich neighbor
whom he was on friendly terms with, to
borrow an ass for a few hours. The worthy
old man was no scholar, and happened to 
have a guest sitting with him at the time,
that he did not wish to expose his ignorance
to. Opening the note, and pretending to
read it, after reflecting a moment, turning 
to the servant, "Very good," says he; "tell
your master I'll come myself presently."
	WHEN the British ships under Lord Nel-
son were bearing down to attack the com-
bined fleet of Trafalgar, the first lieutenant
of one of the ships, on going round to see
that all hands were at quarters, observed one
of the men devoutly kneeling at the side of 
his gun. Such an atitude in a British sailor
exciting his surprise and curiosity, he went 
and asked the man if he was afraid.
"Afraid?" answered the sailor: "no! I was
only praying that the enemy's shot may be 
distributed in the same proportion as prize-
money—the greater part among the offi-
cers."
	A CUSTOMER came in one day and said,
"Old woman, what do you ask for herring?"
"Three cents apiece," said the old lady.
"I'll take one," says the customer; and the
aged vender proceeded to do it up. "What
do you ask for beer?" said the customer, as
the parcel was handed him. "Three cents
a glass," said she. "On the whole," said 
he, "I'll take a glass of beer instead of the
herring." So he took the beer and started
to go. "Beg your prrdon," said the old
lady, "but you haven't paid for the beer."
"Paid for it! Of course not. Didn't I give
you back the herring for it?" "Well, but,"
persisted the old lady, "you didn't pay for 
the herring!" "Pay for the herring! Of
course I didn't. I didn't take it, did I?"
"Well," said the old woman, after a pause,
in which she strove in vain to master the
mathematics of it, "I presume you're cor-
rect, but I wish you wouldn't trade here
any more."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MOTHER’S GROWING OLD.

Her steps are slow and weary;
	Her hands unsteady now,
And paler still, and deeper
	The lines upon her brow;
Her meek blue eyes have faded;
	Her hair has lost its gold;
Her once firm voice now falters—
	My mother’s growing old.

Her days of strength are over;
	Her earthly joys depart,
But peace and holy beauty
	Are shining in her heart;
The links that bind the spirit
	Relax their trembling hold;
She soon will be an angel—
	Sweet mother’s growing old.

My thought's flow back to childhood,
	When fondled on her knee,
I poured out all my sorrows,
	Or lisped my songs of glee;
But now upon me leaning
	So wearily and cold,
With trembling lips she murmurs,
	“Dear child, I’m growing old."

I think of all her counsels,
	So precious to my youth;
How faithfully she taught me
	God's sacred words of truth;
How tenderly she led me
	To Jesus’ blessed fold,
Where she will soon be welcomed,
	No longer bowed and old.

The path of daily duty
	Was ever her delight,
She walked by faith and patience,
	And trusted God for sight.
Her hands with useful labor,
	Each day their mission told;
Her deeds, like heavenly roses,
	Still bloom, though she is old.

Alas! those hands so skillful,
	Which toiled with loving grace
To make me blessed with comforts,
	And home a happy place;
Those dear hands, pale and wrinkled,
	Are now by time controled,
They rest in prayerful quiet—
	—Dear mother's growing old. 

Yet though her earthly temple
	Fast falleth day by day,
Her soul with faith increasing,
	Pursues its heavenward way,
And then the mists of earth-life
	Shall from her sight be rolled,
She'll shine in youth and beauty,
	Where spirits ne’er grow old.

Oh, mother, fond and faithful,
	Thou truest earthly friend,
May I be near to soothe thee
	Till all thy struggles end.
And while with sad hearts yearning
	Thy form my arms enfold,
I pray in peace to meet thee
	Where saints no more grow old.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Bleach Discolored Flannel.—To restore the
original appearance of white flannel, which has
turned yellowish by lying for a long time, or by
wear, soak for an hour in a weak solution of bi-sul-
phate of soda, then add a little dilute muriatic acid,
stir well and cover the vessel for twenty minutes. 
After this take the flannel out, rinse in plenty of 
soft water and dry in the sun. The flannel will be 
purely white. 

	Reomoving Greese Spots.—Make a paste of
quicklime, washing soda, and as little water as
possible, put it on the grease spots, when you have
with stone or wood. It may, however, discolor the
wood or make it darker. In case you wish to avoid
this, cover the wood or paper with dry carbonate
of magnesia, powdered chalk, or even dry starch
powder, place on top a thick blotting-paper, and
then a hot flatiron. This will draw out the greese.
If not fully drawn out, scrape off the powder and
repeat the operation. Some liquid ammonia may
finish the job if the heat does not fully clean it all
up.

	To Cook Rice.—Following is the method recom-
mended by the French Academy for cooking rice
during the seige of Paris: Take one cup of rice and
one-fourth of a cup of water in a saucepan, cover,
and place over a good fire; after an hour the water
will be evaporated, and the rice cooked tender, but
dry, with grains distinct, not in paste. Sufficient
salt should be added, in the first place, and care
should be taken not to disturb the rice while cook-
ing. By adding a little butter, and allowing the
rice to dry a little more over a gentle fire, a more
delicate dish is prepared. Rice is cooked in this 
manner in the East Indies.

	Testing Colored Fabrics.—Prof. Stein of Dres-
den, has recently published a little book on this
subject, from which we extract a few tests which
can be readily applied by persons who are not chem-
ists and who have no laboratories to work in.
	Red.—A piece of the goods is first boiled in
soap water, which should remain colorless, or nearly
so. Secondly, it is boiled in lime water, which
should be colored but little, if any, while the color
of the goods must not become paler, or become
brown or yellow. These simple experiments suf-
fice to indicate the presence or absence of camwood,
archil, santel and the coal-tar colors.
	Yellow.—The most permanent yellow is madder:
the least so are Orleans and turmeric. Only those
of the first class will stand washing. To test a
yellow it is first boiled in water, then in alcohol,
and finally in lime water. If the former are col-
ored quite a yellow, and the latter a reddish, while
the stuff acquires a reddish-brown tint, the color is
not fast.
	Blue.—This color is not fast if, on boiling with
alcohol, it gives to it a red, a violet-red or a blue
color, or, if on warming it with muriatic acid and
water or alcohol, the liquid turns red, or the goods
turn red or brown-red.
	Violet and Purple.—Madder violets, and those
formed by combining indigo-carmine with cochineal,
are fast. If fast colors are combined with fugitive
colors they lose their value. All violets are to be 
considered poor if they give up a considerable
amount of color when boiled in equal parts of wa-
ter and alcohol, and allowed to stand ten or fifteen
minutes. Also, if they change to a brown or red-
dish brown by boiling in dilute muriate acid.
	Orange.—The goods are first boiled in water; if
this is colored the colors are fugitive. If the wa-
ter remains colorless, the sample is next boiled with
alcohol, to which it should give no color.
	Green.—Dilute alcohol should not be colored
blue, green or yellow when boiled with the goods,
nor should muriatic acid acquire a red or blue color.
	Browns—Are not so easily tested; If, however,
they give a red color to water, or a yellow color to
alcohol, they may be considered as fugitive.
	Black.—If, on boiling the goods in water con-
taining some muriatic acid, it only imparts a yel-
low color to the liquid, the color is fast. If, on the
other hand, the liquid acquires a red color and the
stuff turns brown, the dye is not permanent, but 
nearly worthless.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Dyspepsia.—The following extract was
commended to our notice by an experienced 
physician.:—Consider for a moment how
vast an amount of our personal misery, to
say nothing of the actual sin and of the
wretchedness which our consequent ill-tem-
per brings on others, arises from dispepsia.
Perhaps this malady is answerable, directly
or indirectly, for more unhappiness, and does
more to lower the general tone and average
of human enjoyment, than any other. We
all of us know something of it, many of us
know it well; we can estimate, in some
measure, how much the cheerfulness and
brightness of our daily life is impaired by
its pernicious prevalence, how it saps good
spirits, how it sours good temper. Well,
how obvious are its causes; in most instan-
ces, how possible its cure! How many of
us toil half our life to earn it, begin early in
its cultivation, dig for it as for hidden treas-
ures! We generally lay the foundation for
it in childhood, or in our first youth, by reck-
less and ignorant self-indulgence—the faults
of parents and teachers, you will say, and
what they could have checked in time had
they known and valued the laws of physiol-
ogy. True, but we ourselves are, or have
been, or will be, those very parents and
teachers. Then, do we not ourselves com-
mit much the same follies as our children,
when we eat, as we habitually do, more than
is good for us; when we eat, as most of us
do, what we know will disagree with us;
when the pleasures of the palate tempt us
to do more than satisfy our hunger or recruit
our strength; when we drink alcohol, not
because we need it, but because we like it;
when we take a second glass, not because a
second was required, but because the first
was very good; when smoking becomes a
regular habit, instead of an occasional in-
dulgence; In all these cases we are sowing
seeds for an inevitable harvest—we are dili-
gently earning our wages and incurring a
recorded obligation. If only all wages were
as well earned and all debts as certain to be
paid! When we sit lazily in our arm-chair
under circumstances which indicate that we
ought to be in active exercise; when we sit
in close rooms and in a vitiated atmosphere, 
instead of breathing the clear air of heaven;
when we go on toiling and thinking long
after our sensations warn us that we have
expended the income and are drawing on
the capital of our cerebral strength; when-
ever, in a word, we neglect the plainest
physiological laws (which it is difficult not
to read whenever our attention is drawn to
them), then we are laying the foundation of
that functional disorder of the digestive or-
gans which entails so certain and so sad a
penalty. I am sceptical about stomach ail-
ments which a man has done nothing to de-
serve. I scarcely believe in any which
either he or his progenitors have not worked
hard to generate. I believe, moreover, that
those are few which, however induced origi-
nally, may not be cured or kept in bounds,
even after mature age is reached, by sedu-
lous care scientifically directed. We are
most of us familiar with the case of Cornaro, 
who, awakening at forty years of age to
the consciousness of a shattered constitution,
yet contrived, by sagacious observation and
incessant vigilance, to recover the tone of
an outraged and enfeebled stomach, and
lived in laughing comfort to a green old age.
—"Enigmas of Life."

	BORAX FOR COLDS.—A writer in The
Medical Record cites a number of cases in
which borax has proved a most effective
remedy in certain forms of colds. He states
that in sudden hoarseness or loss of voice
in public speakers or singers, from colds, re-
lief for an hour or so, as by magic, may be
often obtained by slowly dissolving, and
partially swallowing, a lump of borax the
size of a garden pea, or about three or four
grains held in the mouth for ten minutes
before speaking or singing. This produces
a profuse secretion of saliva, or "watering"
of the mouth and throat, probably restoring
the voice or tone to the dried vocal cords,
just as wetting brings back the missing
notes to a flute when it is too dry.


MRS. Gove who has been in charge of the
W. U. Telegraph office at Los Angelos has
resigned on account of ill health, and Miss
M. E. Little formerly assistant in the office
has charge of it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DANIEL WEBSTER’S' FIRST PLEA.

	Ebenezer Webster, father of Daniel, was
a farmer. The vegetables in his garden suf-
fered considerably from the depredations of
a woodchuck, whose hold and habitation
was near the premises. Daniel, some ten
years old, and his brother Ezekiel, had set
a trap, and at last succeeded in catching the
trespasser. Ezekiel proposed to kill the
animal and end at once all further trouble
with him; but Daniel looked with compas-
sion upon his meek, dumb captive, and of-
fered to let him go. The boys could not
agree, and each appealed to their father to
decide the case.
	"Well my boys," said the old gentleman,
“I will be the judge and you shall be the
counsel to plead the case for and against his
life and liberty.”
	Ezekiel opened the case with a strong ar-
gument urging the mischievous nature of
the criminal, the great harm he had already
done, said that much time and labor had
been spent in his capture, and now, if suf-
fered to go at large, he would renew his
depredations, and be cunning enough not to
be caught again, and that he ought now to
be put to death; that his skin was of some
value, and that, make the most of him they
could, it would not repay half the damage
he had already done. His argument was
ready, practical, and to the point, and of
much greater length than our limit will al-
low us to occupy in relating the story.
	The father looked with pride upon his
son, who became a distinguished jurist in
his manhood.
	“Now, Daniel, it’s your, turn; I’ll hear
what you’ve got to say.”
	It was his first case. Daniel saw that the
plea of his brother had sensibly affected his
father, the judge; and his large, brilliant
black eyes rested upon the soft, timid ex-
pression of the animal, and he saw it trem-
bled with fear in its narrow prison house.
His heart swelled with pity, and he appeal-
ed with eloquent words that the captive
might go free. God, he said, had made
the woodchuck; He made him to live to en-
joy the bright sunshine, the pure air, the
fields and woods. God had not made him
or anything in vain. The woodchuck had
as much right to live as any other living
thing; he was not a destructive animal, like
the wolf;  he simply ate a few common veg-
etables, of which they had plenty, and could
well spare a part; he destroyed nothing ex-
cept the little food he ate to sustain his
humble life; and that little food was as
sweet to him and as necessary to his exist-
ence as was to them the food on their moth-
er’s table. God furnished their own food.
He gave them all they possessed, and would
they not spare a little for a dumb creature
who really had as much right to his small
share of God’s bounty as they themselves
had to their portion? Yea, more; the ani-
mal had never violated the laws of his na-
ture or the laws of God, as man often did,
but strictly followed the simple instincts he
had received from the hands of the Creator
of all things. Created by God’s hands, he
had a right from God to food, to liberty,
and they had no right to deprive him of
either. He alluded to the mute but earnest
pleadings of the animal for that life, as dear
to him as were their own, and the just
judgment they might expect, if in selfish
cruelty and cold-heartedness they took the
life they could not restore again.
	During the appeal the tears had started
in the old man’s eyes, and were fast running
down his sunburnt cheeks. Every feeling
of a father’s heart was stirred within him,
and he felt that God had blessed him be-
yond the lot of common men. His pity was
awakened by the eloquent words of com-
passion and the strong appeal for mercy;
and, forgetting the judge in the man and
the father, he sprang from his chair (while
Daniel was in the midst of his argument,
without thinking he had already won his
case), and turning to his eldest son, dashing
the tears from his eyes, he exclaimed:
"Zeke, Zeke, you let that woodchuck go.”
—Portfolio.


[For the Exponent.
			THE ORDER.
		BY JANE THORN.
	The subject we have chosen seems to be
setting the minds and tongues of the peo-
ple agog.  We do not think we could have
selected a more suitable one to write about;
inasmuch, as it so nearly concerns our tem-
poral and spiritual welfare.
	The "Order," as it is generally understood,
is going to pull open our purse-strings and
abstract a few dollars therefrom.  But as it
really IS, it is for our own benefit here as
well as hereafter.  Our fathers, husbands
and brothers are continually preaching re-
form—in dress, at table, and in all extrava-
gant display.  How is this to be effected
except by a general movement of the peo-
ple?  We have tried retrenchment societies,
and only the few have entered into them;
the many, still rush onward in their head-
long race after fashion and gaiety, yet some
among them are really good at heart and
anxious to do right.  Here, the "Order"
will effect a general revolution.  We are
firmly convinced that no Mormon, or rather,
no Latter-day Saint will think for a moment
of remaining out of it.  It naturally follows
that our sisters will adopt a style of dress,
more becoming their means and more in ac-
cordance with their religion.
	While lately conversing with a widow
lady, she argued thus:
	"My friend, you have not a family of
children left on your hands to care for. I
shall see that their future is well looked
after and that the Order shall not affect their
interests before I join."  "My dear;" I re-
plied, "can not you  trust them in God's
hands?  You rely on our beloved President
to guide them spiritually, can not you  feel
the same confidence in him, as regards their
earthly welfare?"  She called my views
"spiritualistic"—fancy! spiritualistic.  May
I always be a Spiritualist then.
	We know, as well as the great old French
Emperor, that "women rule the world;"
then, knowing this fact, should we not bring
all our mighty influence to bear, on this,
the great event of our generation?  "Shoul-
der arms!"  my sisters, and "Present arms"
(round your husband's and brother's necks)
and gird on the mighty armor of Truth and
Faith.
	Who was there among us afraid to pitch
our tents in Salt Lake Valley; when the
voice of the Lord, through His servants,com-
manded us to stay our feet for here was our
resting-place. Then, who among us, now,
will refuse to unite our whole efforts to roll
on this grand, mighty Order that will even-
tually prepare us to go back to Jackson
County, build the city of Zion, and be ready
for the second coming of Christ.
	Those who say they will "wait to see how
it is all going to turn out," little know how
much they are losing through their procras-
tination and want of faith.
	Let us rather say, "Go on my husband,"
"Go on my brother, and we will hold up


your arms, even as Aaron did of old. We
will be true and faithful; so that when the
Lamb claims His own, we shall stand by
your side, ready to receive our crowns of
glory and reign Queens forever more."


FLORAL HINTS.

	MYOSOTIS IMPERATRICE ELIZABETH.—
This exquisite forget-me-not is recommend-
ed by The Florist as a charming plant, and
one of the very best for pot culture.

	POT COVERER.—A novelty, invented by
M. Gorse, of Paris, recommends itself to
the notice of those who cultivate plants in
rooms. It consists simply of a circular piece
of zinc made to fit the top of the pot, and
divided into semi-circles, united by a hinge
at one point of contact. In the center, a
space is left, which allows free room for the
stem of the plant. The utillity of this in-
vention seems chiefly to be that plants thus
protected will require much less water than
they otherwise would, as the evaporation
from the soil in the pot would be considera-
bly diminished.

	ARRANGEMENT OF FLOWERS.—A few
simple rules in the arrangement of flowers,
with reference to color, will materially en-
hance the effect produced.
	1. Avoid placing rose-colored next to scar-
let, orange or violet.
	2. Do not place orange next to yellow,
nor blue next to violet.
	3. White relieves any color, but least of
all yellow.
	4. Orange appears best with blue, and
yellow with violet.

	PROPAGATION OF THE ROSE.—Roses are
very easily propagated by cuttings and lay-
ers. For garden roses the process of layer-
ing is the best. Take good strong shoots
that come the nearest to the ground, and
strip off a few leaves from half a foot or
more toward the point of the shoot, and in-
sert a sharp knife just behind an eye or
joint on the upper side of the shoot, and
pass it carefully upward, cutting about half
through the stem, and from an inch to two
inches in length. Loosen the soil beneath 
the shoot, bend it down, and press it firmly
into the earth; peg it down with a long
hair-pin or a bit of wood, two or three inches
beneath the surface, and cover it firmly with
soil. June, July and August are the best
months for this operation. Take the time
when the bush has nearly ceased to bloom
and the shoots are growing vigorously. If
the weather is dry, water the layers every
evening; don't let them become dry. By
October or November they will have become
rooted, then cut them off within two inches
of the parent stem, and transplant where
you desire them to grow another season.
In the spring, prune the the stem down to
three or four joints, and the rose will bloom
finely. The Chinese layer roses in this
manner: by cutting a slit, as described
above, and putting a small stone into the
tongue to keep it open; then bind a handful
of fresh green moss around it, and keep it
constantly wet, and the tiny roots will shoot
forth into the moss so rapidly that in five or
six weeks the layer can be removed from
the bush and planted in the ground without
disturbing the moss, and fine, healthy, fresh
plants are the result.


AT forty years of age a man looks back
over his past life and wonders what he did
it for, and turns wistfully toward the future,
and keeps on doing it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	AN ENCHANTED TABLE.—A novel din-
ing-table is now in use in one of the palaces
of the emperor of Russia. The table is cir-
cular, and placed on a weighted platform.
At the touch of a signal, down goes the ta-
ble through the floor, and a new table, load-
ed with fresh dishes and supplies, rises in
its place. But this is not all; each plate
stands on a weighted disk, the table-cloth
being cut with circular openings, one for
each plate. If a guest desires a change of
plate, he touches a signal at his side, when,
presto, his plate disappears, and another
rises. In this country, at the Oneida Com-
munity, they employ dining-tables having
the centre part made to revolve. Here the
goblets, spoons, tea and coffee, castors, pitch-
er, and other necessary articles of table fur-
niture are replaced; by revolving the cen-
ter piece, the sitter brings before him what-
ever article may be desired without the in-
vention of a special waiter.

	WOMEN IN SWITZERLAND.—One hundred
women climb each day to the splendid
buildings which overlook the city of Zurich
—the first fountain of learning in the repub-
lic; a thousand women toil from sunrise till
late evening in the narrow lanes below,
dragging heavy hand-carts, staggering under
large burdens balanced upon their heads,
sawing wood, or gathering the refuse from
the streets with basket and shovel--in short,
performing the most menial service that the
lowest class of male laborers are condemned
to do in America. I have often seen two
slender women sawing oak and ash wood in
the streets, while a stout fellow stood by,
leisurely splitting the sawn sticks. One
poor old creature the other day, sat upon a
curb-stone, holding her saw reversed be-
tween her knees, and in utter weakness was
rubbing the stick of wood upon it to saw it
in two.—Bosthn Advertiser.

	CURIOUS CLOCK.—Among the curiosities
left by the late Senator Sumner was an old
German clock which stood in the hall. Its
case is much like the old pier or hall clocks
that are occasionally seen in old families,
but it has great value. Besides marking
the seconds, minutes, hours, days, months
and years, it shows the phases of the moon,
and indicates other matters of a like nature.
It contains a chime of bells of rare sweet-
ness of tone, and marks the hours, the
halves and quarters with the chime,
sometimes beating a tune. Various bids,
the highest reaching $3,000, have been of-
fered for this clock, but declined. Mrs.
Hastings of San Francisco, Mr. Sumner's
sister, has expressed a desire to have the
clock, and it will be sent to her.

	THE following was written for boys but
we think it is equally as well to girls who
are trying to "work their way in life." A
great many boys complain that there are no
places. Perhaps it is hard to get just such
a place as you like. But when you get a
place—and there are places, for this big
country, we are sure, has need of every
boy and girl and man and woman in it--
when you get a place, make yourself neces-
sary to your employers; make yourself so
necessary by your fidelity and good behavior,
that they cannot do without you. Be will-
ing to take a low price first no matter what
the work is, if it be honest work. Do it as
well as you can. Begin at the very lowest
round of the ladder, if necessary, and climb
up. The great want everywhere is faithful,
capable workers. They are never a drug in
the market. Make yourself one of these,
and there will always be a place for you,
and a good one.

	EDUCATING BOYS AND GIRLS TOGETHER.
—After thirty-two years experience, Dr.
Woolworth writes:
	"'1. The co-education of the sexes has
been favorable to good order and discipline.
	"'2. A mutual stimulating influence has
been exerted on scholarship.
	"'3. There have been no scandals—at
least not more than may exist between the
members of a school limited to one sex, and
the outside world.
	Principal Armstrong, of the Normal
School at Fredonia, N. Y., says:
	"My observation shows that the morals of
students of either sex deteriorate, appar-
ently, in proportion to the rigor of the sepa-
ration of the sexes. The same is true of
their delicacy of feeling, their sense of
honor, and their love of truth.
	"In all mixed seminaries and academies
where social intercourse of the sexes was
either forbidden or largely restrained, the
ladies lost in prudence, delicacy, and truth-
fulness, even faster than the gentleman.
	"For many years my views of school gov-
ernment have been much more liberal than
the common practice would justify. In this
Normal School I allow, and even encourage,
all the freedom of intercourse between the
sexes, which would be allowed in a well-
regulated family.—Am. Ed. Monthly.


﻿LUCY DOWNING.
	Lucy Downing, sister of John Winthrop,
was one of the chief movers for a higher
education here in America, and her solicita-
tions led to the founding of Harvard College.
Her brother urged her to settle here, but she
declined doing so unless some provision was
made for the education of her son George.
She says: “It would make me go far nim-
bler to New England, if God should call me
to it, than otherwise I should; and I believe
a college would put no small life into the
plantation.” This was in 1636, and in Octo-
ber of the same year, the general court at
Boston voted £400 to a college of which
£200 was to be paid in 1637, and the other
half when the building was finished. In
November, 1637, the building was located
at Cambridge, and about a year afterward
it was endowed by Rev. John Harvard with
one-half his estate. The President took his
seat in 1640, and second on the list of his
first graduating class of nine young men,
six of whom became ministers, stands the
name of Lucy Downing’s George, the
nephew of Gov. Winthrop. The “solicitous
suit” of the good dame had prevailed, and
Harvard College has since had a name in
the world for more than two centuries and a
quarter; while Lucy Downing has been
well-nigh forgotten and as much neglected,
even by her own George, as her sex has
been by the college she teased into exis-
tence. The Springfield Republican well
says that Lucy Downing, the young mother,
vexing her soul and pinching her purse, and
putting her daughters out to service, in or-
der to give her sons a good education—
Lucy Downing coaxing the founders of New
England to establish a college for boys—has
been a type of her sex from that day to this.
The men of New England are more indebt-
ed to the women of New England than to
their own sex for their good educations; yet
no sooner do they ask for the like privileges
for their own sex than the ungrateful men
and the ungracious boys who have thriven
by their sacrifices and sagacity, call them
bold and covetous, and refuse to admit them
to the colleges they founded.


﻿A little Troy boy, who was worrying
over a piece of shad at dinner lately, demor-
alized his mother by asking—"Mamma,
where did God find all the bones to make
the first shad of?”
	“Uncle Charles,” said a six-year-old, the
other day, “can you tell me why the sun
sets in the west at night, and rises in the
east in the morning?”
	“Pshaw!” said Uncle Charles, “the first
fool you meet can tell you that.”
	“Yes, uncle,” replied the sweet boy,
“that’s why I asked you!”


DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City. 
	
			      H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			  storey Brick Store on  FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
		    Where he is prepared to do a
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
				
				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting; the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter np of
	the club,			-	-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price$4    -	    -	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all name sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another ahonld send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladlies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
