VOL. 3.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1874			No. 10﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A KINDERGARTEN is about opening in
Kalamazoo, Michigan. With all the little
“treasures” she owns, our territory might
open several such schools with profit.
	AN EASTERN paper observes that six
ladies had the courage to go up in a balloon,
with Prof. Wise at Philadelphia.  Most
women consider themselves safe when in
the company of a “Wise” man.
	MICHIGAN PAPERS speak in high terms
of praise of the abilities of Miss Marion L.
Guild of the Grand Rapids “Post.” Thus
it is notwithstanding the loud cries that are
made about woman’s stepping out of her
sphere when she attempts to fill any posi-
tion of more importance than that of dish-
washer or chambermaid, she still wins her
way throughout the country, seeking and
gaining favor when she learns to respect
herself; and where she is best known her
efforts and abilities are best appreciated.
	WE CLIP from an exchange the following
in regard to the new postal law that goes
into effect on and after the 1st of next Jan-
uary.  Time will prove whether it is any
improvement on the old system.
	"The last Congress passed a bill making
it incumbent upon the publishers of news-
papers to prepay postage on papers sent to 
subscribers, which, together with the post-
age upon exchanges, amounts to an effectual
embargo upon the press, and will prove a
serious obstacle to the general diffusion of
knowledge by the one most useful, and
economical means—the public journals of the
country. The tendency of the age seems
to be in the direction of enlightenment—
free schools, high education by State insti-
tutions, a free Press, etc., and yet the rep-
resentatives of the people are so stupid or
conservative as to take a retrograde step in
the direction of the best and most efficient
educator of the masses—i. e., the nation's
newspapers. The recent action of a British
colony in an opposite direction gives room
for unfavorable comment, which is, and
will be taken advantage of.  We have, for
years, claimed to lead the van, in all pro-
gressive measures, and would scout the idea
of yielding to any other nation superior lib-
erality; but a change must come soon, or we
will find ourselves distanced greatly. Speak-
ing of our former boasts and present facts,
an exchange aptly remarks:	‘But it is
very singular that while the United States
has been passing a law which imposes an
additional tax of two and a half million of
dollars on the newspaper circulation of the
country, the Legislature of the largest and
most important of Australian colonies has
adopted a regulation allowing newspapers to
go, without any charge at all, through the
mails. It seems a little strange to the for-
eigner up a tree, that this great, enlighten-
ed, progressive nation should levy a tax of
two million dollars upon the means of dis-
seminating intelligence while the Islands of
the Pacific are removing all restraints here-
tofore placed upon the press. There is
something wrong somewhere—where is
it?


﻿PATERNAL acres—The old man’s corns.


FROM OCEAN TO OCEAN.

	Under the above heading, Dora Darmoore
publishes an interesting descriptive sketch,
of her overland journey, from which we
give the following passages, attributing any
errors that occur to imperfect information
gathered during a hasty visit:
	"As soon as we were fairly within the
bounds of Utah Territory, the signs of a
prosperous and industrious people were seen
on all sides. Smiling meadows, fields from
which the golden grain had been lately cut,
orchards bending beneath their burden of
fruit; neat, and often costly farmhouses,
reared their roofs amid the luxuriant
foliage surrounding them, and it seemed al-
most incredible that less than a quarter of
a century ago all this fertile and charming
landscape was a bare and desolate plain.
Truly has the desert been made to "blosom
like the rose," and too much credit connot
be given to the brave and determined people
who have been the pioneers in this great
work, even though they are fired by re-
ligious fanaticism.
	Upon reaching Ogden, we changed cars
for
		SALT LAKE CITY,
Which lies thirty six miles south. The sun
was near the horizon, and its last beams fell
like a shower of crimson and gold over the
Great Salt Lake, which lay at our right,
with its lofty, mountainous islands, and its
rocky promontories rising like huge masses
of amethyst from the glimmering waves at
their feet. Never, except in Colorado,
have I witnessed such gorgeous sunsets as
those I saw in Utah Territory. No artist
can ever hope to transfer to canvass any-
thing but a sorry imitation of such wonder-
ful coloring.
	Night had closed in before we reached
the "City of the Saints," and as we rolled
through the quiet streets towards our des-
tination, the Walker House, we were struck
with the perfect repose and orderly appear-
ance of the town. No loafers were loung-
ing about, no noise; everything was like a
New England Sabbath evening. The fol-
lowing morning we were up betimes and
on the alert for the novel experience that a
sojourn among the Mormons might bring.
	First, for a stroll through the broad,
shady streets. Every house has its large
and well kept grounds, and everywhere
were an abundance of trees, mostly fruit
trees, thus combining utility with beauty.
Over the doors of many of the business
houses were conspicuously displayed the
significant letters "Z. C. M. I." as well as
on bulletin boards, and at the begining and
ending of advertisements, usually preceded
by the legend "Holiness to the Lord," en-
circling the All-seeing eye. Where these
characters are seen over a place of business
it indicates that the proprietor is a good and
faithful saint, and pays his tiths with prom-
titude into the coffers of the church. Of
course in our rambles about this modern
Eden, we kept a sharp lookout for the
"muchly" married citizens, as well as their
better—what shall I say—certainly not
halves, possibly fourths, eights or even 
sixteenths. Well, as I said, we kept a sharp
lookout for those fraction[-]d portions of the
Mormon households, and though it is very
rare indeed to see a Mormon woman on the
street, unless she has special business there,
we were fortunate enough in the course of
the morning, to be thrown into the society
of several.*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Driving in a carriage about the city, our
first visit was to the Tabernacle, an immence
building, capable of seating fifteen thou-
sand people. It is unsupported by pillar or
column, and its whole great dome forms a
perfect arch. Back of the chair where
Brigham sits rises the great organ, the larg-
est in America, with the single exception
of the celebrated one in Boston. It was not
yet finished, though the designer had been
at work on it for four years. Adjacent to
the Tabernacle, workmen were busy on the
new Temple which is being made of a white
stone, found in the adjacent mountains. We
were shown the design, and if fate ever
wills it to be finished, it will be one of the
finest works of art in America. The Mor-
mons have learned to depend upon them-
selves, and should any fortune sever them
from the rest of mankind, they are quite
able to live independent of them.
	I visited the Deseret News office, the
Mormon organ, and was received very
courteously by its editor, G. Q. Cannon, Esq.
He is a very zealous and efficient expounder
of the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints, and
one cannot but believe while listening to
his recital of the early trials and troubles of
these saints, and his expressions of belief
that they were led by the Almighty, that,
if an enthusiast, he is at least an honest
one. He showed us some fine specimens
of paper made by themselves, and also in-
formed us they manufactured all their own
type. Can one doubt the ultimate success
in a pecuniary point of view of a people
who have literally no imports, and a con-
stantly increasing supply of exports? (It
should be so. ED. W. E.) Nature has ap-
parently kept her best gifts in store for this
people, who have had the sense and the
boldness to fathom her secrets. Natural
springs of cold, warm and medicinal waters
are constantly being developed, and on each
side of the broad, finely graded streets, a
clear, sparkling stream of living water goes
dancing over the pebbles at the bottom. No
muddy, foul and loathsome ditches here; but
everywhere cleanliness is the order of the
day.
	Nowhere, even in New England itself,
is the Sabbath so rigorously observed as in
this city. The municipal authorities being
exclusively Mormons, have everything their
own way. No beer saloon, no cigar store,
and even no barber shop is allowed to be
open on that day. So the unfortunate who
has failed to lay in a supply of lager or Ha-
vannas, or to attend to his tonsorial duties
on Saturday night, must fain go unshaven,
thirsty and smokeless, till Monday morning
relaxes the rigor of the Mormon law enfor-
cers.
	After two days spent in this delightful
city, we were again forced to proceed on
our journey toward the setting sun, and I
must express my astonishment at finding
here in this far-away place, hotel accommo-
dations rivaling those in Chicago or New
York."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
A REFORMED HUSBAND.
	TO HIS WIFE.
Come darling put your sewing by,
	And chat with me awhile.
I want to hear the glad, free tone,
	And see the old sweet smile:
The tone in which you spoke to me,
	The smile you used to wear
When we were courting on the Ranch
	When love was young and fair.
If then we loved each other well,
	As little as we knew
Of all the wrangling, jangling things
	That throng life's pathway through—
If then we loved and trusted well,
	Just starting on our way,
When near a dozen years have passed,
	How should it be to-day?
We never got discouraged then,
	And harsh words never came;
But since that time we neither one
	Have always been the same:
We never got too tired then,
	To walk and take delight,
After a hard day's work was done—
	How would it seem to-night?
Let's be again the lovers true
	We were before we wed;
Nor think so much of "getting on,"
	So we have clothes and bread:
For supper and for breakfast too,
	Hot meals let us discard;
I'd rather eat but once a day
	Than have you work so hard
I think that if we courted still
	Just as we used to do
Our children would be healthier,
	And better natured too.
Our home would be as cheery bright,
	And we should be again
As happy in each others love,
	And blest as we were then.
Now when the men have left their work,
	And quit the field and shop,
And I come in to read or rest,
	It's time for you to stop:
So let's put this machine aside,
	And cease its tedious hum:
The moon is bright, the air is mild—
	Then come, my darling, come.
								LULU.


AN ADDRESS.
To the Richmond Retrenchment Association.
	How natural to human beings, are thoughts
of self, how prone we are to care for our own
comforts heedless of the welfare of others.
If fortune smiles on us we forget that there
are those who are less fortunate, or who may
need our assistance. Our own enjoyment is
all the world to us; and yet there is not hap-
piness in all this self provision. Much calls
for more, and contentment does not linger
in the heart of averice. But courted or al-
lowed to remain, it takes possession of us
body and soul. And thus we go on grasping
for all within reach, often, perhaps, for that
which would do us no good, determined to
possess it even if it would be an incumbrance
to us, rather than see it enjoyed by another.
If a choice bit of lace or velvet or a nice
dress pattern is brought to some one of a
family, how apt is the young lady to say,
"give it to me. I need it and it suits me
better than my sister." And should
the coveted prize be gained, the thought
never enters her mind that doubtless some
of the rest wished for it quite as much as
herself only they were too good and self-
denying to take it from her. How admira-
ble seems generosity when we notice it in
our friends, especially if a favor has been
done us. But do we ever think to be gen-
erous in return?
	It is an easy matter to persuade ourselves
that people do very little for our benefit,
and to indulge the thought "Why should
we trouble to accomodate them?" Some-
times we pity some one and tell how much


they are in need of help, and if it were not
for some trifling reason we could render as-
sistance, trying to excuse ourselves for neg-
lect of duty. Thus our actitons are a great
deal like the letter p; first in pity but last in
help.
	We are all children of the same wise Pa-
rent, and is it not the duty of every individ-
ual to assist others? It is the only  true way
to gain friends or happiness.
	We are not, or should not be, living
merely to gratify our selfish whims, but to
spread peace and love wherever we are. We
should never forget to do this, and especially
to comfort the sick and weary, that they, at
least, may testify that God has not created
us in vain. If we banish all selfish and evil
thoughts from heart and mind, and seek to
promote the prosperity of our brothers and
sisters on earth, God will reward us in hea-
ven. 				MARY STUART.
	RICHMOND, Sept. 27th 1874.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.
					For the EXPONENT.
	 EXTINCTION OF RACES.
	Among the more recent results of scien-
tific investigation, are the unmistakable evi-
dences of the existence of men upon this
Continent from the most remote ages, and
of the presence of large settled popula-
tions in distant and also in comparatively
recent times. They were the "occupants of
the then fertile but now arid plains of the
Colorado;" of "islands that existed along
the Pacific coast," long before the elevation
of the coast itself by which the sea was
shut out and California made habitable;
when the valleys of the Sacramento and
San Joaquin were drained of the waters of
the ocean, large populations came in and
"took possession of the land, leaving their
remains with those of animals long since ex-
tinct." Scientific research proves, in fact,
that "the man of the Florida coral period
existed long anterior to the Pharoahs, prob-
ably long before the land they ruled over
existed." The question asked cannot be
answered so as to satisfy the requirements
of science:  "Where did the ancient races
of America come from; and where are they
gone?" With the discoveries made, comes
the unwelcome inference that in the exter-
mination of these primal races there is a
foreshadowing of the ultimate extinction of
the white races now in possession of the
land. In an essay, read recently before the
National Teacher's Association, it was shown
that "no race of human kind has yet ob-
tained a permanent foothold upon this Con-
tinent;" and the melancholy concessions
were that "unless some steps were taken to
avert the evil," we, the proud, enduring,
hitherto permanent occupants of this planet
are doomed, as a race, to an "untimely ex-
termination."
	It will be interesting to note the methods
that will be resorted to to avert this. Per-
haps it will be well to ascertain the causes
that gave rise to the extermination of the
races that once inhabited this Continent.
It may be possible that other than "climatic
influences" were operating then, by a "law"
that is not yet recognized. In the mean
time, we may read that which is a key to
these perturbations which exist in bosoms
that dread conditions that are inevitable:
"Wherefore I will consecrate this land (Amer-
ica) unto thy seed and they who shall be
numbered among thy seed, forever, for the
land of their inheritance. For, it is a choice
land, saith God unto me, above all other
lands; wherefore I will have all men that


dwell thereon, that they shall worship me,
saith God!"—Book of Mormon.

	FAT IN FORAGE PLANTS.—Notice is tak-
en by scientific journals of the discoveries
of the German chemist, Konig, who found
that by treatment with strong alcohol the
fat of grass, clover and hay could be sepa-
rated into two parts—one a solid waxy sub-
stance, the other a fluid fat, soluble in alco-
hol. By other chemists it has also been es-
tablished that even as much as ten per cent
of the dry weight of cereals is fat and wax;
early meadow grass, six and a half per cent
of fat. This is worthy of notice for exposure
to atmospheric change such as occur when
fodder is left uncovered, would cause de-
composition of these fatty matters and thus
make them worthless as food.


For the EXPONENT.
A WOUNDED SPIRIT WHO CAN BEAR.

	In reflecting upon the wrongs which
woman is subjected to in the world, and the
evils now existing in consequence of her not
being allowed the choice of a husband in
aocordance with her affections, I have
thought, how appropriate for the considera-
tion of man in these days is the sweet ap-
peal of the poetess, Mrs Felitia D, Hemans:

	"Oh! cast thou not
	Affection from thee in this bitter world,
	Hold to thy heart that only treasure fast;
	Watch, guard it, suffer not a breath to dim
	That bright gem purity."
								EXCELEITE.


For the EXPONENT.
BEWARE OF ACCUSING CHILDREN.

	Under this heading perhaps a few words
may not be deemed inappropriate. Years
and experience have given the writer op-
portunity to observe the influence prevail-
ing over children, that more or less help to
mold their characters for the future; influ-
ence very much to be deprecated and most
heartily to be condemned; as often the re-
sults are lamentable.
	Living in a fast age, comparatively, very
little consideration, is given to these things,
with all the boasted knowledge of modern
times. Children are expected to know
more, which, in fact, they do at a very ten-
der age, than in former days; children were
children then, until really old enough to
have some strength of mind and under-
standing; parents were more cautious, in
respect to conversation in their hearing,
which now seems almost totally done away
with. Careless habits have gained ground;
for as the world stands, no great or good
things are advanced without more or less
evil to bring up the rear; which often proves
almost an overbalance of power, counter-
acting, in a great degree, the good attained.
Thus it is only by the most strenuous efforts
and the exercise of exceeding watchfulness
and care, on the part of those engaged in
God's vineyard—to uproot and drive forth
the little evils, which like the moth, silent-
ly, ceaslessly and most certainly work sor-
row and woe—that anything can be done.
Among the minor evils, one that carries
great sway with the generality of people
and families, is that of hasty accusation:
Children are often corrected in anger and
haste; more often than in calmness, or with
due deliberation. Because a certain piece
of mischief is done, some child did it;
and perhaps the child, perfectly innocent of
the mischief said to be his or her doing, is
punished severely for it no mattter how
much he or she may say and protest


against it. Such proceedings have a very
bad influence, causing children to doubt their
parents' goodness; they think, "neither
father nor mother knows as much as I
thought they did;" and therefore they do
not care much for what father or mother
may say. They know something themselves,
and prefer, as a natural consequence, their
own way to that of parents or guardians.
It also begets a habit of lying; for when
children see that, do what they will, they
are doubted and disbelieved; they become
careless as to what they say, and are led, by
and bye, into wickedness.
	Beware of falsely accusing little children.
The tender minds and opening understand-
ings feebly grasp, little by little, the good
placed before them; while evil reigns pre-
dominant, ever present in word and action,
indoors and outdoors. Especially where
children are allowed to ramble about in the
streets, too much care can not be exercised
in respect to the company they keep; for vul-
garity seems almost to be the rule, and good
decent language the exception commonly,
which is an evil and a very great one; one
which among little children, brings ill
thoughts and wrong topics of conversation
where there should be only innocence and
sweetness.
	What children need to know can be taught
them gradually, as they are growing in years;
and they can be trained to right thoughts
and feelings by placing matters before them
in a right light; giving a higher tone and
most noble and grand ideas of what life
should be; lifting them up from the low,
grovelling and debasing tendencies of hu-
man nature.
	There exists among children such a vari-
ety of temperaments to be dealt with, that
it requires the utmost wisdom and tact,
gentleness and firmness combined, to in-
sure success in implanting the right instead
of the wrong. But habits and impressions
obtained through childhoods years, often
remain through life and are never forgotten;
giving a coloring to mind and manner which
no future circumstances or training can
change.					A. B. C.
	BEAVER, Sept. 3rd, 1874.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BEHAVIOR OF FEMALES IN COMPANY.
	One of the chief beauties in a female
character is modest reserve; that retiring
delicacy which avoids the public eye, and
is even disconcerted at the gaze of admira
tion. When a girl ceases to blush she has
lost the most powerful charm of beauty.
The extreme sensibility which it indicates
may be considered as a weakness and en-
cumbrance to the other sex, but in females
is peculiarly engaging, as blushing is so far
from being necessarily attendant with guilt,
that it is the usual company of innocence.
That modesty which is so essential to the
sex, will naturally dispose them to be rather
silent in company, especially in a large one;
people of sense and discernment will never
take such silence for dulness. A person
may take a share in conversation without
uttering a sylable—the expression of the 
countenance shows it, and this never es-
capes an observing eye. Converse with
men with that dignified modesty which
may prevent the approach of the most dig-
nified familiarity, and consequently pre-
vent them feeling themselves your superi-
ors. 
	Wit is the most dangerous talent which
a female can possess. It must be guarded
with great discretion and good nature,
otherwise it will create many enemies. Wit
is perfectly consistent with softness and
delicacy, yet they are seldom found united.
Wit is so flattering to vanity, that they who 
possess it become intoxicated and lose all
self-command. Humor is a different qual-
ity. It will make your company much so-
licited—but be cautious how you indulge it; 
it is often a great enemy to delicacy, and a
still greater one to dignity of character.
It may sometimes gain you applause, but it 
will never procure respect. 
	Beware of detractions especially where 
your own sex is concerned. You are gener-
ally charged with being particularly addict-
ed to this vice, perhaps unjustly; men are 
fully as guilty of it when their interest in-
terferes. But as your interests frequently 
clash, and as your feelings are quicker, your 
temptations to it are more frequent. For 
this reason be particularly careful of the
reputation of your own sex. 
	Consider every species of indelicacy in
conversation as shameful in itself, and
highly disgusting to modest men, as well as
to you. The dissoluteness of some men's
education may allow them to be diverted
with a kind of wit, which yet they have
delicacy enough to be shocked at when it
comes from the mouth of a female. Chris-
tian purity is of that delicate nature that is 
cannot even hear certain things without
contamination. It is always in the power 
of woman to avoid these; no man but a brute
or a fool will insult a woman with conversa-
tion which he sees gives her pain; nor will
he dare to do it if she resent the injury 
with becoming spirit. There is a dignity 
in conscious virtue which is able to awe the 
most shameless and abandoned men. You
will be reproached, perhaps, with an affec-
tation of delicacy; but, at any rate, it is 
better to run the risk of being thought
ridiculous than disgusting. The men will 
complain of your reserve; they will assure
you that a frank behavior would make you
more amiable; but they are not sincere when 
they tell you so. It might on some occa-
sions render you more agreeable as com-
panions; but it would make you less amiable 
as women, an important distinction of which 
many of the sex are not aware. 
	There is a certain gentleness of spirit and
manners extremely engaging in young wo-
men; not that discriminate attention, that 
unmeaning simper which smiles on all alike.
This arises from an affection of softness or 
perfect insipidity. We wish them to pos-
sess the most perfect simplicity of heart 
and manners. They may possess dignity 
without pride; affability without meaness;
and simple elegance without affectation.
Milton had the same idea when he said of 
Eve: 
	"Grace was in all her steps, heaven in her eye,
	In every gesture dignity and love."


THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
	The United States Centennial Commis-
sion announces its readiness to receive ap-
plications for space in the International Ex-
hibition of 1876, at Philadelphia. It is im-
portant that it should be known with the 
least possible delay what space will be re-
quired in each of the departments of the Ex-
hibition by American exhibitors, in order
that it may be determined what room can
be assigned to foreign nations.


"AND so they go;" one of the Portland
school committee is reported to have said;
"Our great men are fast departing—first
Greeley, then Chase, and now Sumner—
and I dont feel very well, myself."


WOMAN'S RECORD.
	THE Princess Bismarck, now past sixty,
superintends her farm work.
	THERE are at present fifty-nine ladies in
the different departments of Boston Uni-
versity. 
	MRS. Dumway has the honor of a repor-
ter's desk in both Houses of the Oregon
Legislature. 
	ROSA Bonheur is fifty-two years of age,
unmarried, and lives happily with a sister
and several brothers.
	MADAME Bazaine is represented to be of
low stature, very dark, and with regular
features. She is about 30 years old.
	A JAPANESE girl, who came to America
three years ago, recently bore off four of the
highest prizes at a Washington seminary.
	MRS. Stonewall Jackson resides at Char-
lotte, N. C. She is quite young—not above
30—of medium height, and very attrac-
tive. 
	MISS Vinnie Ream, of Washington, D.
C., possesses in clay, the only bust ever
made of Gov. Richard Yates, of Illinois,
and hopes to receive a commission to put it
in marble for $1000.
	MRS. Edmund Fletcher, who sued the
city of Chelsea, Mass., the other day, claim-
ing $10,000 damages for injuries received
through the bad condition of a street, re-
ceived $2500.
	MRS. Hayard, of Rhode Island, who is
known in the art world as a distinguished
sculptress, has a number of her works on
exhibition in Paris, where they are attract-
ing attention and favorable comment.
	THE Empress Augusta has called a meet-
ing of all the delegates from all the women's
associations of Germany to be held at Ber-
lin in October. The Queens of Wurtemburg
and Saxony, Grand Duchess of Baden and
Princess Alice of Hesse have promised to
attend.
	THE Baroness Mathilde Rothschild, sec-
ond daughter of the deceased, the wife of
Baron Wilhelm Von Rothschild, of Frank-
fort, renowned for his piety, benevolence
and Talmudical lore, is an ardent friend of
music, and a composer of considerable suc-
cess.
	MRS. Mary C. Wilber, widow of the first
President of the Cincinnati Female College,
was honored by receiving the degree of A.
M. from that Institution, at its recent Com-
mencement. Mrs. Wilber is one of the
Board of Instruction in the college. 
	MISS Gilbert, a blind lady, opened a
blind school in a Holborn cellar in London,
for which she paid eighteen pence per week.
She has now one thousand pupils, whom she
has taught to support themselves. They
maintain the Institution, which gives them
a home, an education and an occupation.
	CHANCELLOR Winchell, of the Syracuse
University, says he had "no knowledge of
the ruin of female constitutions by proper
collegiate work, while women are generally
more punctual in their scholastic duties
than young men. It is also a matter of
observation that there is no branch of learn-
ing so exacting upon memory, judgment,
or powers of abstraction, that there are not
women worthy to be competitors of the
strongest men."


CONTENTMENT makes one happy and rich
as the greatest king.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Pub[-]ished semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. OCT. 13, 1874.


SPLINTERS. 
			LOCAL
	The retail Produce Department of the
Z. C. M. I. has been purchased by Mr. S.
W. Sears......The Royal Marionettes have
been performing at the Theatre......Lord
Claud John Hamilton, M. P. and present
viceroy of Ireland, lately visited our city
......A little daughter of Mr. David Day,
was kicked by a horse recently, her right
eye destroyed and a portion of the frontal
bone broken off and driven into the head;
but the doctors say she will recover. 
			PERSONAL.
The Empress of Russia will soon visit
her daughter the Duchess of Edinburgh, in
England......Miss Kellogg refuses to give
ten nights of English opera in California
for $20,000 and expenses......Mrs. Kate N.
Doggett, who visited this city some three
years since, is now editor of the "Hospital
Bazar" of Chicago......Anna Dickinson will
go abroad when she has finished a book she
is now writing......Helen Marble who lately
gave a musical entertainment in California
is spoken of as "the impersonation of grace,
with a most powerful yet sweet and flexible
voice......Mrs. Walter Lacy who recently 
died in London, was the original Julia in
"The Hunchback"......Knappeler's medall-
ion bust of Aga[-]siz is the best likeness ex-
tant of the great naturalist......John B.
Gough has a collection of Cruikshank's pic-
tures, numbering over two thousand.
			FOREIGN.
	There are thirty-five old Catholic congre-
gations in the Jura, Switzerland......The
Bank of England is reported to be about to
advance its rate of interest......Ten thou-
sand Spanish soldiers whose term of ser-
vice has expired have been disbanded......
The shipment of contraband goods across
the Spanish frontier will be stopped by the
French Government......Mon. Testiole, cap-
tured by brigands, ransomed for ten thou-
sand dollars......The Midland Railway com
pany of England is to dispense with second
class coaches......The river Nile which has
been overflowing its banks at Cairo, Egypt,
is falling......One of the most severe ty-
phoons, ever witnessed by foreigners, visi-
ted the southern part of Japan, last Au-
gust.
			GENERAL.
	Public works in New York reported at a
stand still......Indians of Nebraska prophesy
no grasshoppers for six snows......State fairs
in the West have mostly been failures this
year......Great improvements have been
made the past year on public buildings and
grounds at Washington......Thirteen horses
were killed by one stroke of lightning dur-
ing a recent thunder storm at Upperville,
Va......Northern woolen mills are stopped,
but Georgia is increasing her number of
looms......A beautiful and accomplished
Pennsylvania heiress, lately, "immortalized"
her name among her friends by eloping with
a negro......Mrs. Julia Perkins of Cincinati,
recently murdered her child and attempted
suicide but was prevented......The estate
of Charles Sumner has been appraised and
is valued at one hundred and thirty-four
thousand, seven hundred and fifty-eight
dollars......Telegrams of recent date from
the east, tell of a $150,000 fire, one of $30,
000 and another of $20,000, taking place
about the same time and in towns but little
distance from each other.


OF what trade are bees? Comb makers.


A GOOD WORD FOR WOMEN.

	Let those who fear that the ladies of the 
land will be dragged down from their high
womanly position by a contact with politics,
that woman will not exercise the privilege
wisely, that she will not be true to her coun-
try, herself and her friends, come and wit-
ness an election day in Utah. Let them
compare it with the election days in other
places, and I will venture the assertion that
in this respect, at least, although living
among the mountains, they will admit we
are ahead of the age. The presence and
voice of woman purity and cheer; before
her, vice shrinks away, and its votaries are
sometimes so ashamed at her approach that
they resolve en masse not to visit the polls.
Whatever else is false, woman is always 
true. 
	     "Not she with traitorous kiss 
	       Her Savior strung, 
	   Not she bettrayed him 
	      With unhappy tongue. 
	   She, when Apsotles 
	     Shrank, did danger brave: 
	   Last at the cross
	     And earliest at the grave." 
		EX-GOVERNOR S. A. MANN.


CONFERENCE ITEMS.

	Never was a more glorious Indian Summer
known than the Saints were favored with dur-
ing the time of their late fall Conference. Not
even a gust of wind or a shower of rain occured
on either of the five days appointed for the
gathering together of the people, to prevent
even invalids f[-]om venturing forth. And those
who took advantage of the opportunities grant-
ed, for gaining instruction in the ways of li[-]e
and salvation, were uniformly blest inasmuch
as they treasure the good things offered from
the elders on the stand, and seek to live ac-
cording to the directions given.
	The health of President Young rendered it in-
consistent for him to speak to the congregation,
but he showed by his example, being at meet
ing each day, that he still holds to the doctrine
he has often preached in public, that it is good
for the Saints to congregate, and mingle in
prayer and praise, and the diffusing of knowl-
edge concerning heavenly things.
	During the Conference, discourses were deliv-
ered by President Geo. A. Smith and Elders C.
C. Rich, B. Young Jr., J. Taylor, W. Wood-
ruff, A. Carrington, F. D. Richards, O. Pratt,
G. Goddard, C. W. Penrose, G. Q. Cannon and
J. Van Cott.
	The instructions and exhortations given
were, as they have been in times past, calculated
to encourage oneness among the Saints; in or
der that they may the more readily become an
independent, self-sustaining people, hasten the
work of rearing temples to the most high God,
and in every way speed the progress of His
Kingdom upon the earth.


SEASONABLE HINTS.

	The weather here has been so continuously
beautiful this season, that the trees still retain
their thick foliage; and were it not that the
brown, orange and golden tints of autumn are
becoming mingled with the green hues of na-
ture's summer dress, we might imagine our-
selves in a land,
	"Of cloudless skies and sunny climes."
	Yet we all are certain that the storms of win-
ter will soon come with the discomforts of wet,
cloudy weather, mud and slush on the roads,
cold winds and biting frosts, and that, too, be-
fore many are prepared to meet them. If not
already attended to, now is the time to be mind-
ful of, and prepare for these changes in the wea-
ther, that will probably be all the more sud-
den because of the lateness of the season.
	As far as possible, a supply of good, warm
clothing, including over-shoes, or shoes or
boots thick enough to keep the feet warm and
dry; also suitable bed clothing should be ready
for use.
	Mothers should remember that their little
ones are not only ignorant of what is necessary
for their good, but also have the thoughtless-
ness of happy childhood; and when heated
with playing, are liable to expose themselves
so as to take cold, unless watched over. A lady
friend, whose motherly instincts, experience
and intelligence we regard highly, has, in con-
versation, called our attention to the danger in
which infants are often placed, at this time of
the year, when the warm, mild summer wea-
ther is giving way to the damp, cold and drafty
atmosphere of winter. Those who have become
inured to this change in the seasons, and even
mothers, often do not realize how sensitive are
these tender infants, who, in their little lives
have, probably, never felt other than the warm
temperature of the sunny seasons of the year.
And in many cases, their health is endangered
by sufficient care not being taken to protect
them from too sudden or too great changes of
temperature while indoors as well as out. Es-
pecial care should be taken when a babe is tak-
en from the cradel or bed where it may have
lain until quite warm, perhaps covered with
perspiration and thus rendered particularly
susceptible to even a slight degree of cold.
Sufficient care in these matters is not always
exercised, not from lack of feeling but for lack
of knowledge or thoughtfulness; and these lit-
tle ones suffer through being unable to bear the
extremes to which they are exposed.
	As the season changes care should also be 
taken in the diet of both old and young, especi-
ally, we think, with regard to those fruits which,
though out of season, can still be obtained
fresh. However agreeable they were in the
summer time it will be best for health's sake,
to partake of such only when cooked.


HOW TO BECOME ACCOMPLISHED.
	Many people especially among the young, are
apt to spend more time and thought in seeking
to acqure pleasing habits, attractive manners
and graceful, engaging ways, than would be in
anywise necessary if they but understood the 
proper method for obtaining these accomplish-
ments.
	As it is so delightful to be beloved and res-
pected by friends and acquaintances and as
fine accomplishments add so much to native
lovliness, as "Love is the fulfilling of the Law"
and so much happiness depends upon it—per-
haps we might say, especially to woman- it is
highly important that every daughter of Zion,
and indeed, every lady—in the land should 
know how to secure this great boon to herself
in the best and easiest manner possible.


﻿To many of our lady friends then we would
say, spare much of your wasted time and re-
lieve your minds of many troublesome and use-
less ideas in relation to what should be consid-
ered "genteel," "etiquette;" etc., and turn 
your attention to the study of that which will
make you truly refined.
	It is but to gain possession of and then to cul-
tivate within the heart, the Spirit of God, to
become not only agreeable, and accomplished,
but also loveable in the eyes of all right think-
ing people. Under the influence and direction
of this divine guide no person will speak or act
falsely or in any manner ungraceful or unbe-
coming.
	God does not err. His omnipotence is appar-
ent in small as well as in great matters. Nor
will His Gospel or any principle contained
therein lead any one to commit an unladylike 
or ungentlemanly action, or to  utter an uncouth
word or sentence. 
	David, the ancient poet, has beautifully illus-
trated these truths in his nineteenth psalm,
where he says:
	"The law of the Lord is perfect converting
the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure,
making wise the simple."
	To speak and act with wisdom is the only
way to be certain of speaking and acting with
propriety; and all other accomplishments
however desirable they may be in themselves,
are of little worth compared with the e. 
	It will, therefore, pay all parents who are de-
sirous that their children should be well edu
cated, to have them taught first of all the per-
fect law of the Lord, that they may obtain the
sure testimony of his spirit, which will make
them wise.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UNITING INTERESTS.

SOME OF ITS ADVANTAGES TO WOMAN
			ILLUSTRATED.

	How many frugal housekeepers, mothers of
families or women in almost any department
of labor can be found in our communities, who
do not work more hours of the time allotted
them for existence here, and in fact, accom-
plish more than is consistent with the laws of
nature and health? Where is there one who
does not allow work of some kind to infringe
more or less upon the proper seasons for rest?
Who does not take from the necessary eight
or nine hours sleep, regularly, one, two, or
three hours for the finishing up of some piece
of work, which must be done in order to give
place for something else? We may say they
nearly all do it; and so they are nearly all
wearing themselves out, some ten, others twen-
ty and still others fifty per cent.faster than they
should do.  Even while bearing children they
do not, cannot desist. Therefore it cannot be
expected that they will bear children with suf-
ficient hardihood and energy to enable them
ever to accomplish great and noble things, even
if they live to become men and women.
	But how are these great evils to be avoided?
Cooking and cleaning, laundry work, making
and mending must all be done in every house-
hold; and who but mother is able to do it all, o
at least superintend each department and see
that things are kept moving? Often, too, it
occurrs, right in the midst of the greatest hur-
ry and worry about the work that the nursing
baby falls sick. What else could reasonably be
expected, when day after day the nourishment
it receives from its mother is heated to a sick-
ening degree by anxiety and over work? This
only makes the burden of the weary[-] worn out
woman ten times heavier. She knows that for
the sake of her precious babe if for nothing else,
she should stop working so hard; but what is
she to do? She finds no stopping place, even
though she must work with a sick and fretful
child in her arms or on her lap. Why at such
times does not every woman hire some one to
help her with her work? Very many do not
because they have no means of paying hired
help. How is it possible for a woman thus sit-
uated to do anything by which to earn money
to hire help with? and does it not require every
cent earned by the husband and father to feed
and clothe the family? Look at a community
thus situated, and find an effectual remedy for
all these troubles. We see but one. Men and
women struggle on year after  year in the man-
ner above described, and in nine cases out of
every ten their chances for less toil and fatigue,
and more easy and pleasant life grow no better.
But let a unity of interests be established, say
among the women, and by wise and careful
management, all the difficulties mentioned in
this article would at once be removed.
	Every one is better adapted for the following of
some pursuits than others not so congenial. As
with spiritual gifts, in which to one is given
the gift of prophecy, to another the gift of
tongues and to another the gift of healing, &c.,
so it is in regard to temporal matters. Some
women are natural dress-makers or tailoresses,
and prefer cutting out and making up clothing
to any other kind of labor. Others are experts
in the kitchen and delight in cooking and pre-
paring food. Suppose one of each class, living
in close proximity one to another, should agree
to unite their efforts to make their homes com-
fortable and orderly. And the one would say
"Bring your cloth to me and I will cut and
make the garments for your family. As you
understand the art of cooking so much better
than I do, if you will cook for us I shall have
plenty of time to do the sewing for both fami-
lies." Then the woman who liked the kitchen
work, might answer. "O! that will be such a
relief to me. I can as well cook for ten as for
five: but manage as I will, I am always in the
rear with my sewing." Both women would
thus find their burdens made lighter by half.
The seamstress would not have to charge her
mind with troublesome thoughts about prepara-
tions for dinner, that it might be served in the
proper time and way, thus distracting her at-
tention from the happy pursuit of those labors
for which she was best qualified. And the cook
would have no need to waste cloth and spoil
garments through being perplexed and worried
over two or three things which she considered
herself necessitated to perform at the same time.
	The same method of pursuit may be consid-
ered in connection with all other branches of
industry; and it will be found that immense
good would be the natural result.


HOME AFFAIRS
	THROUGH THE "Millennial Star," Betsy
Dobson requests Thomas Dobson of this city
to communicate with her care of James Top-
ping, 4 Leeming Street, Preston, England.
	DURING THE days of the late Conference,
numerous calls were made at our office by old
friends and new, and we take this opportunity
for saying we were pleased to meet them all.
	ADVICES FROM Bear Lake Valley state that
the people there have been blessed this year
with the most abundant and finest harvest of
all kinds of grain ever raised there, also that
live stock is doing finely.
	A TRAGEDY occurred at Bountiful some days
ago, which appears to be as mysterious as it is
was terrible. Mrs. John Adams, a resident of
the above named place for more than fifteen
years, and a good, kind, inoffensive woman,


was suddenly shot dead by some unknown per-
son, while sitting by the table reading. It was
evening and quite dark which rendered the
tracing of the assassin at the time impossible.
And so far, neither day-light, diligent search
nor anything else has given any clue to the
perpetrator of the fiendish act.
	WE LEARN from Sister Elizabeth Fox, of
Franklin, Oneida Co., that their Relief Society
has lately been newly organized. And from
Sister S. Say, of Fairfield, Cedar Valley, that
the Society there is moving steadily on in their
good work. The sisters of the different societies
throughout the Territory, will please remember
that their friends and co-workers are always
pleased to hear from them through the EXPO-
NENT, and not forget or neglect to send in their
reports.
	A LOVELY bouquet of autumn flowers has
been placed upon our table by Mrs. Wagstaff
of the Sugar House Ward. Pinks, peonies.
scarlet geraniums; crimson, yellow and white
dahlias, double stocks, French marigold, snap-
dragon, sweet williams and white hyacinths,
beautifully arranged and set off with asparagus
and a broad-leaf-silver-edged grass, the name
of which we are not acquainted with. We
gratefully acknowledge this compliment of Sis-
ter W.’s, and think, although she apologized
for her bouquet's being late, it has no look of
“the last rose of summer.”


FLOWERS.

	REMEMBER that success is more in the
man than in the country.
	GREATNESS lies not in being strong, but
in the right use of strength.
	THE certain way to be cheated is to fancy
one's self more cunning than others.
	STRIVE to be as kind, forbearing, and for-
giving as you can, both to friends and foes.
	HE that follows the Lord fully will find
goodness and mercy following him continu-
ally.
	IT should not discourage us if our kind-
ness is unacknowledged; it has its influence
still.
	LIFE is a voyage, in the progress of
which we are perpetually changing our
scenes.
	MANY run about after felicity, like an
absent-minded man hunting for his hat
while it is on his head or in his hand.
	IT is of no advantage to have a lively
mind if we are not just. The perfection of
the pendulum is not to go fast, but to be reg-
ular.


A VERY rich merchant who had an only
son, made his will, by which he gave all his
wealth, which amounted to 300,000 francs,
to certain monks, leaving them to give his
son such a sum as they wished. The mer-
chant died. The monks took all to them-
selves without wishing to give anything to
the heir. He complained to the Viceroy,
who, having seen the will, asked the monks
what they offered to the son. "Ten thou-
sand francs," they replied. "You wish,
then, to have all the rest?" "Yes my lord:
we demand the execution of the will." That
is just," said the Viceroy; "but you do not
understand it properly. It is said that the
son shall have that which you wish; you
grant ten to the son; it is then 290,000
francs that you want. Ah, well! following
the clause of the will, this sum is set apart
for the son. I order you to give it to him;
the 10,000 francs remaining are therefore
yours." They were obliged to submit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			HOPE.

	THOUGHTS OF AN HOUR.

Give back, give back thy genial beams.
To cheer life's path of grief and pain,
Those blissful though illusive dreams,
O star of hope give back again!
Give back the promises of joy,
That gleam along the clouds of woe,
How much of grief can they destroy,
Though never realized below.

Give back the sunny smiles of calm,
That whispered peace amid the storm;
Dispense again the healing balm,
And miracles of good perform.
Thine are the promises of heaven,
Or latent memories of the soul;
Some straying beams of glory given,
To lead us to the blissful goal.

Dear star, the heart unlit by thee
Is but a charnel house of gloom,
Where nothing lives but misery,
And no sweet flowers of promise bloom.
Give back, give back thy genial beams,
To cheer life's paths of grief and pain;
Thy blissful though illusive dreams
O star of hope give back again!
Salt Lake City,			RICH SMYTH.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Corn Meal Pudding.—Two pints meal, one
pint grated bread, one of molasses, one of brown
sugar, one of sour milk.
	Canning Fruit.—The process is very simple.
Place a clean and very wet towel in a pan, away
from currents of air; set the can to be filled on the 
towel, put a silver spoon in it; then set the fruit
funnel and pour in the boiling fruit. Remove the
funnel and spoon, fill the can to the very top, and
seal tightly. Then, when nearly cold, give the
screw ring, if possible, another turn or part of a 
turn.  Stand the cans upside down to make sure
that they are tight. If the syrup can't get out the
air can't get in.
	That is true!  Men do need and should have
night-gowns. Every man does who knows "what's
what" and when he does he does not do as nine-
tenths of the women do who wear them, wear the
garment he has worn all day under his night-gown.
How many women are there who remove the 
chemise when they put on the night-dress? But the
men who do wear night-gowns make them substi-
tutes for the day shirt—hence they benefit by the
change, whereas woman suffers by the addition.—
R. N. Y.
	To Stiffen Linen.—Such articles as collars,
cuffs, etc., which require to be made very stiff;
should be starched in the following way:—Mix a
tablespoonful of starch with enough cold water to
make it smooth, then turn on enough boiling water
and boil it ten minutes; then add a bit of white
wax the size of a three cent piece and a teaspoonful
of alcohol. The spirit is to increase the stiffness
and help to retain it. The wax is to prevent the
starch from sticking to the iron. If the flat iron
still sticks to the starch, rub hard soap gently over
the bottom of the iron. Put the collars, cuffs, etc.,
into a tin pan and place in a warm spot by the 
stove or range, to become very dry before putting
away.
	-Renovating Half-worn Clothes.—A few weeks
ago a new suit of clothes was considered indispen-
sable by the head of our family who had unfortu-
nately been caught in a shower, giving his good
clothes rather a dilapidated appearance. But not
having more means at our command than our ne-
cessities demanded, and having determined to econ-
omize in every possible way, I concluded that if
sponging and pressing would restore them it should
be done and proceeded accordingly, sponging the
collars and other soiled parts, with hot soap-suds,
followed by clear, warm water, then damping
the lining of each garment and pressing carefully
on the wrong side, placing a clean cotton cloth, free
from lint, under the iron. The result is that "our
husband" is quite satisfied with his old clothes,
and has even been complimented by persons of
taste, on the "nice fit" of his "new suit."
	Night Dresses.—A good deal is said of the man-
ner and fashion and ways of caring for "ladies'
and children's" night dresses; but where are the 
men's? Don't they have any or are they unmen-
tionable? It is self-evident that no person should
wear a garment during the night that is worn dur-
ing the day; and if a "lady," with scarcely enough
exercise to produce a drop of perspiration, needs a 
clean, well-aired garment in which to sleep, how is
it with a man who has been hard at work all day
in the dust and heat, with the sweat dripping from
every pore? If a healthy, active child, to whom
sleep comes as easily and naturally as to a kitten,
needs a refreshing night dress, how is it with the
man and father who has spent the day in his pent
up store, office or counting room in exhaustive
mental labor and goes to bed worn out in mind and
body and with every nerve unstrung?
	Though men have wisdom, power and ability,
though they are strong, helpful and independent,
though they have office and greatness, sit in legis-
lative halls and become M.C.'s, they do need and 
always should have—night-gowns.
					    	Geraldine Germane.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	ERYSIPELAS, a disease often coming with-
out premonition, and ending fatally in three
or four days, is sometimes promptly cured
by applying a poultice of raw cranberries
pounded, and placed on the part overnight.
	INSECT bites, and even that of a rattle-
snake, have passed harmless, by stirring
enough of common salt into the yolk of a
good egg to make it sufficiently thin for a
plaster to be kept on the bitten parts.
	LEMON FOR DIPHTHERIA.—In a clinical
lecture by M. Bucquoy, he expressed his
preference for lemon juice, as a local appli-
cation in diphtheria, to acids, chloride of
potash, nitrate of silver, per-chloride of
iron, alum or lime water. He uses it by
dipping a little plug of cotton wool, twisted
around a wire, in the juice, and pressing it
against the diseased surface four or five
times daily.
	MEN talk about "hardening the constitu-
tion," and with that view expose them-
selves to summer's sun and winter's wind,
to strains and efforts, and many unnecessary
hardships. To the same end ill-informed
mothers souse their little infants in cold
water day by day, The best way I know
of hardening the constitution is to take
good care of it, for it is no more improved
by harsh treatment than a fine garment or
a new hat is made better by being banged
about.—Hall's Journal of Health.
	IN case of burning or scalding the body,
immersing the part in cold water gives en-
tire relief, as instantaneous as lightning.
Meanwhile, get some common white flour,
and apply it an inch or two thick on the in-
jured part, the moment it emerges from the
water, and keep sprinkling on the flour
through anything like a pepper box cover,
so as to put it on evenly. Do nothing else,
drink nothing but water, eat nothing, until
improvement commences, except some dry
bread softened in very weak tea of some
kind, Cures of frightful burns have been
performed in this way, as wonderful as they
are painless.
	As a people, we do not get enough sleep,
we do not get enough rest, we will not take
time for these things, hence our nervousness
our instability, our hasty temper, and the
premature giving out of the stamina of life.
Half of us are old at three score, the very
time a man ought to be in his mental, moral
and physical prime. Half of our wives,
especially in the farming districts, die long
before their time, because they do not get
rest and sleep proportioned to their labor.
Nine times out of ten, it would be better for
all parties if the farmer should get up and
light the fires and prepare breakfast for his
wife, she coming directly from her toilet to
the breakfast table, because it almost always
happens that she has to remain up to set
things right long after the husband has gone
to bed, when really he has nothing to do
after supper but to go to bed. This is a
monstrously cruel imposition on wives and
mothers.—Hall's Journal of Health.
	IF a person swallows any poison whatever,
or has fallen into convulsions from having
overloaded the stomache, an instantaneous
remedy, more efficient and applicable in a
large number of cases than any half dozen
medicines we can now think of, is a heaping
teaspoon of common salt and as much ground
mustard, stirred rapidly in a teacup of water,
warm or cold, and swallowed instantly. It
is scarsely down before it begins to come up,
bringing with it the remaining contents of
the stomach; and lest there be any remnant
of poison, however small, let the white of
an egg, or a teacup of strong coffee, be swal-
lowed as soon as the stomach is quiet; be-
cause these very common articles nullify a
larger number of virulent poisons than any
medicines in the shops.
	IN one of his Boston lectures, Dr. Brown-
Sequard gives the following simple means
for checking coughing, sneezing, etc.—
"Coughing can be stopped by pressing on
the nerves of the lip in the neighborhood of
the nose. A pressure there may prevent a
cough when it is beginning. Sneezing may
be stopped by the same mechanism. Press-
ing, also, in the neighborhood of the ear,
may stop coughing. It is so, also, of hic-
cough, but much less so than for sneezing
or coughing. Pressing very hard on the top
of the mouth, inside, is also a means of
stopping coughing. And I may say that
the will has immense power there. There
was a French soldier who used to say, when-
ever he entered the wards of his hospital,
'The first patient who coughs here will [-]e
deprived of food to-day.' It was exceed-
ingly rare that a patient coughed then."


﻿A WASHINGTON correspondent writes:
“In company with Mr. Allison I called on
our honored citizen, the genial and very com-
petent Secretary of War General Belknap.
He is in appearance every inch a soldier,
and in bearing a gentleman, without the
frigidity and fussiness of too many officials.
During the pleasant private conversation he
gave me this item of his personal history:
"I was born in Washington, and in passing
the War Department I used to wonder if I
would ever get into it. In the course of
time I read law, and became a clerk for six
months in the War Office. I then took my
satchel and started West for Iowa, with a
deep conviction and presentment in my mind
that I would one day return here as head of
the Department. A fellow clerk said to me:
'Belknap, you are a fool to leave a good
clerkship, with a salary of twelve hundred
dollars and go West.' 'I went West,' he
said, 'I am Secretary of War,he is my clerk.'
This is only one of a thousand incidents
illustrating the wisdom and correctness of
the oft' laughed-at advice of the sage Chap-
paqua, ,Go West, young man!'"


﻿Why is Sunday the strongest day in the
week?—Because all the rest are week days.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	The French Minister to England gets a
salary of $40,000 a year.
	Mrs Margaret Tallman, aged 114 years,
died in East Saginaw on the 26th August.
	 Over 7,000 perch of stone have all ready
been used in the foundation of the Centen-
nial buildings at Philadelphia.
	London had in the second week of Au-
gust 91,000 paupers, and the births in the
same city for the same week were 2,365,
while the deaths were only 1,368.
	There is an apple tree still living at York,
Me., which was brought from England in a
tub, 200 years ago, and another at Bristol,
200 years old, that still bears fruit.
	The Jews of Moldavia and the Ukraine
prepare from honey a sort of sugar, which
is solid and as white as snow. They expose
the honey to frost for about three weeks,
where neither sun or snow can reach it, and
in a vessel which is a bad conductor of ca-
loric, by which process the honey becomes
clear and hard, like sugar.
	The railway which is soon to be con-
structed from Naples to the top of Mount
Vesuvius will be about six miles long.
From the city to the base of the mountain,
fourteen miles, ordinary rails will be used,
but the remainder of the way the system of
traction by iron rails will be adopted. The
terminus, which will be within a few steps
of the crater, will be sunk twenty metres
under the lava. In case of eruption, the
current would thus be turned away from
the rail which throughout its whole course
will be raised above the level of the soil.
	Eighteen years ago, an educational con-
vention was held in Pennsylvania, and a
proposition favoring the co-education of the
sexes was, after a day's wrangling and amid
bitter opposition, overwhelmingly defeated.
Pennsylvania has just held another educa-
tional convention, and the same proposition
was carried without a dissenting voice. The
late convention also recommends the colleges
to open their doors to women without fur-
ther delay, as it holds the admission of
women to the college only a question of
time.—Santa Barbara Index.
	Within thirty miles of London, lavender
fields have become quite an extensive and
recognized industry, and there is annually
produced in England alone, sufficient oil
from the plant to manufacture thirty thou-
sand gallons of spirits of lavender, besides
a large quantity, the total of which is un-
known, to be used in the production of
other perfumes with more pretentious
names. The plant is at its best between
three years of age and seven. The harvest
time is the first week in August. The
flowers are then cut and taken to the dis-
tillery, followed by an innumerable army of
bees, which insect is especially fond of them.
Here the essential oils are pressed out, and
are ready to be mixed with the proper ingre-
dients to make lavender water.


Gentleman (who had stepped upon her
dress)—A thousand pardons, madam. Lady
—(pleasantly) It's of no consequence, sir.
What she said of him. "Awkward, stu-
pid fellow! My gathers are all torn out, and
I've got to go home." What he said, to
himself, "Confoundedly ridiculous fashion,
these trains in the street! Make a man look
like a fool, cutting up such capers with
them."


WOMEN WORKERS.
     From the "New North West."
	It is said that in the city of San Francisco
there are between three and four thousand
women and girls, ranging from mature age
to almost infantile years, who daily leave
their homes to perform some kind of work
in the various stores, shops, book-binderies,
printing offices, etc.
	What say the sticklers for "woman's
sphere" at this? These women and girls
are, through the long hours of the day away
from their homes. Are they out of their
sphere, that God and nature designed them
to fill?  If so, who is responsible for thus
thwarting the designs of the Creator and
subverting His laws.
	Of all the twaddle, familiarly called "ob-
jections," which we daily hear, perhaps
that which is so persistently urged relative
to home being the only legitimate province
for the exercise of woman's talent, is the
most exasperating to patience, because in
the plainest violation of common sense.
To declare that God designed all women to
remain at home, and then witness the stress
of circumstances that compels so many
thousands of them to work abroad to main-
tain a home, is equivalent to an accusation
that He is unable to carry out His designs,
in the formation of His creatures.  Such
sacrilege as this we leave for those who be-
lieve that were it not for the powerful aid
that masculine humanity renders to Divini-
ty, He would be totally unable to keep femi-
nine humanity within proper and legiti-
mate bounds.
	In regard to the manner in which the
woman workers of the world engage in the
duties that fall to their share, we quote
from the Golden Era (San Francisco) the
following: If there is one thing that testi-
fies in woman's favor more than another, it
is her willingness to work and gain an hon-
est livelihood. Poorely paid many of them,
tempted, often sorely pressed for food, they
pursue their duty. The life of a sewing
girl, as she toils from morning till night, for
a scanty salary, is not the most cheering,
still we see her following the desolate path,
turning neither to the gilded way of sin,
nor falling into the abyss of dissipation.
Is there not a lesson of patience, fortitude,
perseverance and endurance in the life of
the sewing girl that ought to shame men
from their ways of idleness and low dissi-
pation? Is not the "lord of creation"
sometimes shame-faced to see in the delicate
creature threading her way home from
work, a woman who has labored faithfully,
who has been tempted sorely. whose home
is comfortless, whose table is poorly supplied,
yet who has been faithful to her trust in all
things, while he has fallen from work, spent
his money in vicious ways, and made him-
self a disgrace to his species. How will it
average to compare the six or eight thou-
sand men who are seen in the saloons, low
places of amusement and loafing on the
street corners at nights with these three or
four thousand women? Which is following
the steepest path with the bravest purpose?
Which meets temptation and puts it aside
with the firmest hand? Where is the soft-
est nature and the most redeeming spirit?
And yet, though their service be harder,
these women are not paid like men.


“Lost child” was announced at Farming-
ton, Maine, and the town turned out to
search. After a time the frantic mother re-
membered that she had put him in his little
bed.


﻿RELIGIOUS INTOLERANCE.

*    *  The spirit of religious intolerance
is not altogether confined to Utah, for we
are pained to have to record an instance
which occured a few weeks ago, here in
Christian England, the circumstances of
which we take from a letter written by the
mother:—A child of parents who had em-
braced the Gospel of Christ as believed in
and practiced by the Latter-day Saints re-
siding near Warwickshire, was taken ill
one morning, and on the next morning was
seized with convulsions and died before
medical aid could be called in, in conse-
quence of which the doctor refused to give
a certificate of its death, but after explana-
tion did give one, upon which, application
was made to the clergyman for his certifi-
cate; he refused to give one or have the
child buried within the consecrated ground,
his only excuse as made known, was the
child had not been christened; under this
state of things the grief-striken parents
were compelled to keep their dead child five
days, when the clergyman leaving town,
the sexton consented that if the parents
could get some woman to carry the child to
the church-yard or cemetry after sunset, he
would bury it outside the consecrated
ground, but she must not let it be seen, or
say anything about it. Under these cir-
cumstances the parents not knowing what
else to do consented to this proposition, the
mother of the child however followed the
person who carried the corpse, and stood
away off and saw the sexton dig a hole near
the fence, and bury the child as he would a
cat or dog. The mother overpowered with
grief came up, and asked permission to 
plant a rose tree in the edge to mark the
spot, but was informed by the sexton that
he dare not let her do anything of the kind,
but he leveled the ground so that no traces
of the burial could be seen. This was very
grievous to the parents, as they have two
other children buried in the same cemetry,
neither of which had been christened, yet
they were favored with what is called a
Christian burial. To what a state of deg-
radation some beings will allow their big-
otry and prejudices to carry them; this, a so-
called minister of the Gospel (?) refuses
burial to a little boy who never knew any-
thing of sin, but to show his spleen on its
parents who presumed on serving God in a
different manner than he would have them
do. Shame on all such who assume to
themselves such prerogatives, for they call
down the indignation of an offended God
upon them; they know not how futile their
efforts will be to accomplish what they have
in their hearts, and how low they will sink
down in disgrace as many others have done
who have raised their heel against the work 
of God. The time will come and is not far
distant when they will realize and know to
their sorrow against whom they have waged
such a warfare, yet we would after all, and
more especially could we see them repent
of their evil way say with our Savior—
“Farther forgive them for they know not
what they do."—L. J. N., in Mill. Star.


It is told of a man poorly dressed that he
went to church seeking an opportunity to
worship. The usher did not notice him, but
seated several well-dressed persons who pre-
sented themselves, when finally the man
addressed the usher, saying; "Can you tell
me whose church this is!" "Yes, this is
Christ's Church" "Is he in?" was the next
question, after which a seat was not so hard
to find.


80				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.
	What is that which a person likes to have
and to get rid of as soon as possible? A
good appetite.
	The provisions in the ark did not give
out. They had as much Ham at the end of
the voyage as when they started.
	There is a word in our language of five
letters, and if two of the letters are removed
only one will remain, and that word is stone.
	It is sometimes the privilege of the lover
to be, at one and the same time, in two sit-
uations. When beside his mistress he may
also be beside himself.
	A lady promised to give her maid $25 as
a marriage portion. "Why, Mary, what a 
little husband you have got!" "Dear me!
what could you expect for $25."
	An exchange having advised its readers
to plant peas "in the new moon," the Nor-
ristown Herald asks, "But how are they go-
ing to do it? They can't reach up. The
ground is a better place to plant peas any-
how."
	A call to start a society for the study of
science was responded to by five persons.
The next morning sixty-seven people were
standing in front of the Wooster House
wholly absorbed in watching two men set a
hitching post.—Earlville Transcript.
	Thackeray tells of an Irishwoman beg-
ging of him, who, when she saw him put-
ting his hand in his pocket, cried out, "May
the blessings of God follow you all the days
of your life!" but when he drew out his 
snuff-box, quickly added—"and never over-
take you."
	The Boston "Traveler" says when they
want to find out in the country if a girl
is courting or not, an old lady steps in and
remarks; "I say! there ain't no one sick in
this here house or nothin' is there? I see a
light burnin' nigh onto 12 o'clock last night,
but I don't smell no camphire or nothin'
round."


﻿LADY CLERKS IN WASHINGTON.
	I am acquainted with a lady who writes
Spencerian pages in the Patent Office at
Washington for $900 a year. Her father
was a naval officer of long and meritorious
service, and died a Rear Admiral. Her
husband put $70,000 on the wrong side of
the stock sale in New York, lost, and
sneaked to the hereafter through the back
door of suicide. Patient and lovable, she
works as steadily as if some mighty reward
were near at hand. I suppose it is hope on,
hope ever, with her, though nobody can see
anything she has to expect more than a life
of routine and a humble grave. In Paris,
she would have flown first to the streets and
then to the charcoal brazier. In London it
would have been the Argyle rooms, gin, and
the waters of the Blackfriar's Bridge. As
you pass the tables of the ladies in the
Treasury building you are moving among
better materials for romance than exist in
the teeming brains of Hugo or Turgenieff.
"You see that second woman to your left"
whispered Spinner. "Her father was once
at the head of two railroads. The '57 panic
laid him out. She married a Baden baron,
and he left her in a year or two for some
Dutch flame. She has a noble little boy,
five years old now. Says she is going to fit
him for Havard by-and-by, and then make
a Senator of him. Watch her count that
money. You cannot move your fingers up
and down in the air as fast as she brushes


off the single notes. Never did a day's work
of any kind till she came here."
	All honor to the lady clerks at Washing-
ton for adding the strongest proof yet given
of woman's power to lose friends and for-
tune and still retain virtue and indepen-
dence. God bless the multitude of faithful
workers who are showing each day how
possible it is for them to earn their own liv-
ing, and yet remain cultured, respected
ladies.—Washington Chronicle.


﻿A MODEL FARMER'S WIFE.
	Matilda Fletcher thus describes a far-
mer's wife who is not only beautiful and
wise but possesses several cardinal virtues
in addition.
	"The most beautiful woman I have ever
known was a farmer's wife who attended to
the household duties of a family of four, and
also assisted in gardening and the light farm
work; and yet I never saw her hands rough
and red, and never saw a freckle on her
nose. Impossible! you say; how did she
manage? I never asked her, but she had
some envious neighbors who went slouch-
ing around with red, scaly hands, sunburnt
faces, and hair matted with dust and oil,
who let me into the dreadful secret. They
informed me with many an ominous shake
of the head that she was just the proudest
minx that ever lived; that she actually
wore india-rubber gloves when she used the
broom and scrubbing-brush, and always
when she worked out-doors; that she also
had a bonnet made of oil silk, completely
covering the head, face and neck, leaving
only apertures for seeing and breathing,
thus securing perfect freedom from sun,
wind and dust. Did you ever hear of such
depravity? She also fastened her dishcloth
to a stick so that she need not put her hands
in hot water. For the same reason she ac-
complished her laundry work with a ma-
chine and wringer. And then to see her in
the afternoon tricked out in a fashionable
white dress, with a bright colored ribbon at
her throat and a rose in her hair, entertain-
ing in the parlor, as though she was the
greatest lady in the land, was more than
their patience could indure. And her hus-
band! He had such a satisfied expression
that it was a perfect aggravation to or-
dinary people to look at him. He deserved
to be happy, because he encouraged and
helped her to cultivate beauty in her-
self, her family and her home; and I don’t
know but her success principally belonged
to him, because he brought all the new in-
ventions that could lighten her labors and
all the delicate and pretty things she needed
to adorn her home, and when she was sick,
he wouldn't let her touch work until she was
well and strong. Strange as it may seem,
at such times he actually devoted himself
to her with as much care and tenderness as
he would if she had been the most valuable
horse on the farm.


﻿Muscle in Music.—Of all the discoveries
for which the world is indebted to German
professors, one just published by Professor
Schmidt may claim to be the most singular.
Hearing Herr Rubinstien play at a concert,
he took it into his head to count the notes
which that famous pianist had played by
heart, and found them to amount to 63,990,
fully justifying, therefore, an assertion pre-
viously made by the physiologist Haring,
that a pianist's calling lays about the heaviest
tax of any upon the memory. Herr Schmidt
was, however not satisfied with this enu-
meration. Applying Austrian neukreutzers
as a dynamometer, he tested the pressure


requisite to strike a key on Herr Rubin-
stein's piano, and found it to be equivalent
to 24 neukreutzers, which is 2 1-5 ounces.
The force exerted by the pianist in playing
the 62,990 note piece he therefrom calcula-
ted to amount to 944 cwt. Herr Schmidt
then intruded into Herr von Bulow's room
and tried his piano, which was a harder
touch, but which no doubt Herr Rubinstein
could have played on perfectly well. Here
the pressure would have amounted to 118
1-0 cwt. This discovery may be of use to
pianists who are unaware of how great an
effort of muscle they go through in playing
a piece, but surely it requires a German
professor to draw such a lesson from a con-
cert.


H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP CORNER.

H. WALLACE
Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
	
			DOCTOR CROCKWELL
Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyousones and prevents their untimely ad- 
vent.	
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.		

			CLUB	RATES.  
Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club. 		-		-		-		$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club,	-	-	-	-	- 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand- 
	somely framed, selling price $4  	-	-	$43 00	
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scribe, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


﻿Woman's Exponent.
