VOL. 3.    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1875.     No. 20


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ST. ANDREW'S church, in New York was
recently crushed in, the roof being beaten
in by the toppling over of a lofty wall. The
accident occurred during the time of an
evening service when the church was filled
with people. Several persons were killed
instantly and many were taken to the hos-
pital seriously injured. That the sufferers
were at the time of the disaster, in the
midst of divine worship, seems to add to
the painful interest of the solemn occasion.
	A MAN named Brown, of Pottsville, Penn-
sylvania, is to be executed on the 24th inst.,
for the murder of an aged couple, Mr. and
Mrs. Kromer.
	MOODY AND Sankey, two American pil-
grims, have been holding revival meetings
in England, from which several cases of in-
sanity have occured.
	THE CARELESSNESS of many mothers in
allowing small children to have pins or
needles with which to amuse themselves is
something to be deprecated, and the follow-
ing sad occurrence should act as a salutary
warning to such. The "Alta" of Tuesday,
gives this account; "On Friday afternoon a
little daughter of Col. J. G. Jeffreys, of No.
1616 Washington street, accidentally forced
a needle into her chest, while leaning against
the window-sill. A physician was called,
but was unsuccessful in finding the needle,
although search was made, and the integu-
ments of the chest were divided to the
breast bone, immediately over the wound
The child had broken it off in an effort to
extricate it  herself. The needle had pene-
trated the chest, from which it was quite
impossible to extract it. On Sunday noon
the child died suddenly, not in a spasm, as
has been said. An autopsy was held yes-
terday morning by Dr. Chas. McQuesten, 
the family physician, which revealed a
wound in the right ventricle of the heart,
produced by the needle, and a part of which
was extracted therefrom. This should be a
warning to all mothers that they cannot be
too careful in keeping needles from their
younger children. The fine cambric needle is
rapid in its transit through the flesh, and
almost defies extraction after disappearing
beneath the surface."


HOW TO BE BEAUTIFUL.

	To be beautiful we must cherish every
kind impulse and generous disposition,
making love the ruling affection of the heart
and the ordering principle and inspiring
motive of life. The more kindness, the
more beauty; the more love, the more love-
liness. And this is the beauty that lasts. Mere
physical good looks fade with the years,
bleach out with sickness, yield to the slow
decay and wasting breath of mortality. But
the beauty that has its seat and source in
kind dispositions, and noble purposes, and
great thoughts, outlasts youth and maturity,
increases with age and, like the luscious
peach, covered with the delicate blush of
purple and gold which comes with autumn
ripeness, is never so beautiful as when wait-
ing to be plucked by the Gatherer’s hand.—
Annual of Phrenology, 1871.


DON'T MARRY WITHOUT LOVE.

	I wish I could say to every young lady,
"Don't marry any one that you do not love."
It is a fearful life-lie to assume marriage
without love! Follow the dictates of your
individual heart in that which only concerns
yourself.  Do not let envy, or pique or fan-
cied slight lead you into a wrong marriage.
Marry the one you love or no one. Better
go through life alone than live here a
whole lifetime with one that you do not
love. Do you realize what marriage is? It 
is to sit opposite some one that you love, or
don't love, at meal-time, three times a day
through all your life.  It is to go to concerts
and church, and to see your relatives and
acquaintances with the one that you love or
don't love.  It is to be dependent upon
some one else for the necessaries and pleas-
ures of life.  It is to divide hapiness or mis-
ery; which shall it be? It is to have children
who shall be taught good or evil by father
as well as mother.  It is one long, long part-
nership of life.  It should be a life of love or
a life alone.
	Better await the bridegroom the other
side of the grave than to live so false a life
here as the unloving marriage state.  For
"man and woman made He them;" and
there can be but one true love.  The best of
substitutes is worse than no marriage love.
So I repeat to every girl, better never mar-
ry than marry one to whom you cannot be
true in heart, and life, and soul.
							BETH
	In Woman's Journal.


MOZART AND THE PRINCESS.

	The musical accomplishments of the
great composer were so wonderful at the
early age of six years, that his father took
him with  to the principal cities to play
in public.
	There is a pretty little French story told
of him when he visited Vienna.  He played
before the Emperor and Maria Theresa, and
after he had executed several pieces to the
satisfaction of all; the Empress made a sign
for him to come to her. As he descended
from the stool, unaccustomed to walk on a
waxed floor, he slipped and fell.  A little
girl sprang forward and cried, "Are you
hurt?" 
	"You are beautiful," said Wolfgang. "Will
you marry me?" The little girl laughed.
"That cannot be, my poor boy?"
	"Why not? We are of the same age?"
	"But you are only a poor artist."
	"I shall be great some day."
	"And I am Maria Antoinette, I shall be
arch-duchess."
	This little girl became the wife of Louis
XIV, and the unfortunate Queen of France;
and the same day that Mozart, having be-
come a great composer, was crowned in
Vienna, she was insulted in Paris, and two
years later perished on the scaffold.


MRS. MANCHESTER, who died recently in
Pittsfield, aged 105 years, used often to re-
mark in reference to her long life, "I am
afraid God has forgotten me."


﻿WOMAN'S VOICE. 
	I had a sweet little dream last night, and
I want to tell you what it was for it has made
me so happy to-day.
	I was sitting in the front room, it seemed
to be a warm day and both doors were open.
My loved, lost darling came in, and coming
up to me, placed hss precious little arms
around my neck, while a sweet smile light-
ed his dear face. He commenced kissing
me, and I put my arms about him and said,
“Did my little boy come to see me?” to
which he answered “Yes ma-am.” While
he still smiled upon me, I said I would comb
his head. And taking the comb from the
shelf, I began combing his hair, which was
still wavy and beautiful as his looks were
natural and sweet. But before I had finish-
ed, he turned to me with the same heavenly
smile that he wore when he entered, and
said “I must go now.” And placing his
arms around my neck, and kissing me as be-
fore, he left the room. Then I remembered
that you were in the garden, and went to
tell you that he had been to see me. I
wondered that I had not called you while he
was with me, that you too might have seen
him. And then I recollected that I had been
so filled with joy that I did not think of any
one, nor even that I was alone in the house
when he came. When I found you, we
walked together as we used to with our arms
around each other, and I was telling you
what had happened when I awoke. It was
but a little dream, but it comforts my heart,
and I thank my Heavenly Father for it.
						M. G. H.
			SMITHFIELD, CACHE CO.
MY DEAR SISTER:
	It really is me, attempting to write to
you once more. We have had a very sickly
time with our little ones this winter, but
the Lord has been merciful and kind to us.
	I feel that the time is near when the Saints
will tke the Kingdom and possess it. What
a glorious rest for our dear parents and
many others who have come up through
tribulations, and have raised their families
in the fear of the Lord!
	As a family, we are not well in health but
we love the Lord and one another, and we
feel that we are blest.
	Love and blessings for yourself and dear
onces.					S. E. G. H.


MISS INGELOW, it is stated, is a native of
Boston, in England, and passed her early
life amid the quiet surroundings and avoca-
tions of the English girl.  She is now about
forty-five years of age, and lives with her
widowed mother, in a retired part of Lon-
don, "in a quiet street," as she has said,
"where all the houses are with window box-
es full of flowers."
	MRS. THOMAS H. LITTLE has been ap-
pointed Superintendent of the Wisconsin
Institution for the Education of the Blind
at Janesville, Wis., a position made vacant
by the recent death of her husband. A lo-
cal paper characterizes Mrs. Little as a wo-
man of rare culture, of an elevated Christian
spirit, fully competent to satisfactorily and
successfully perform the duties of the posi-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT
			THE UNITED ORDER.
					__
		BY JACOB E. TERRY. ROCKVILLE.
					__
	Come let us join our hearts and hands,
		In the United Order;
	Likewise our houses and our lands,
		And all within our border.
	For it will help to make us free
		From bondage and oppression;
	When through our faith we all can see,
		And all do take possession.

CHORUS. For this is the truth we will maintain,
		Until our dying day, Sir,
	That Jesus Christ our King shall reign,
		And righteousness bear sway, Sir.

	The prophets longs ince did foretell
		The beauties of the Order;
	When Jesus Christ with saints shall dwell,
		And peace reign through their border.
	Then come ye Saints both great and small.
		And understand the sequel,
	That when we have put in our all,
		We all will then be equal.

CHOURS. For this is the truth, &c.
	
	We'll heap up gold and silver too,
		And treasures that are hidden.
	For we believe the prophets true,
		And thus the Lord hath bidden,
	That all the Saints benearth the sun,
		Should bring their wealth together,
	And that will make us all as one,
		With the blessings of our Father.

Chorus. For this is truth, &c.
	
	And when the Saints through faith behold
		The glories of the union;
	And by their faith and works lay hold
		Upon the blest communion;
	We'll bind old Satan fast in chains,
		And cast him into prison.
	And peace and righteousness shall reign,
		And earth become a heaven.

Chorus. For this is truth, &c.


﻿R.S. REPORTS.
	SALT LAKE CITY, March, 8th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I noticed in a late number of the EX-
PONENT, a call from a sister in Tooele,for re-
ports from our Senior and Junior Co-opera-
tive Retrenchment Association, the meet-
ings of which are held each alternate Satur-
day in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly.
Rooms. Our meetings are continually in-
creasing in interest. Of late, some of the
brethren have been pleased to attend our
meetings and note the progress of the So-
ciety. President Joseph Young, Bishops L.D.
Young, and Wm. G. Young, Elders John
B. Maiben, Milen Atwood,CharitonJacobs and
Morris B. Young have all honored us by
visiting our meetings and speaking most
encouragingly to us. For some weeks past
the house has been filled on the occasions of
our meetings, and there is talk of our hav-
ing to remove to a more spacious building.
One beautiful feature of these meetings is
the reading of reports from the junior asso-
ciations of the different wards by the young
lady secretaries. I believe fifteen wards be-
longing to this city are thus represented at
our general meetings; and Sisters Snow,
Horne and others express much satisfaction
at the progress which the young ladies are 
making.				M. M. GROO,
						Secretary.
	CHARLESTON, Provo Valley,
				March 2nd, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	As some of your many subscribers we
would humbly ask permission for a small in-
sertion inyour columns. We have a Relief So-
ciety in Charleston and are endeavoring to do
what is right and pleasing before our Father
in Heaven. We haven't many sick or
[Column 2]
needy in our place, so we have given a good
deal of our means to help build the meeting
house. We made a carpet for our meeting
house last summer, which makes it more
comfortable, and we have four shares in the
Co-operative store. We try to meet once a
month, but owing to the cold and stormy
weather in the winter, and high water in
the summer, we don't meet as often as we
would. Since we have subscribed for the
EXPONENT, we have found it very interests
ing to read, containing good instruction-
which we as sisters ought to put in practice.
For the time has come in which we have
got to do one thing or the other, put away
our foolish traditions and live near to the
Lord or be overcome by evil. The day is
near at hand when the Lord will bring to
pass his great and mighty works.
	We have been rather negligent, so we
have made some resolutions among ourselves
to try to do better in the future; and with
the help of our Father in Heaven, we intend
to keep them.
			Yours truly,
		EMMA BROWN, President,
		MARIA MCRAE,           } Counselors
		MELISSA MURDOCK, }
		MARY DAYBALL, Treasurer,
		FANNY RICHENS, Secretary.
		TOOELE CITY, Feb. 28th, 1875.
MISS E.R. SNOW.
	Dear Sister.—The President and Coun-
cil of the Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association of this City, herewith submit
for your consideration a few resolutions
which have been prepared and accepted by
the Association, for their further observance.
Trusting they will meet with your approval,
we subscribe ourselves with pleasure, your
sisters in the Gospel.
		ELIZABETH DELAMAR, President.
		JANE DEW, Superintendent.
		CAROLINE MORGAN,	}
		ELIZA CLEGG,			}
		BARBARA GOWANS,		} Counselors
		MARY WARBURTON,		}
		MARY SPIERS,			}
		MARTHA BROWN.		}
		MARY ATKIN, Secretary.
		RESOLUTIONS,
PASSED BY THE YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCH.
	MENT ASSOCIATION OF TOOELE CITY.
	1st.—Resolved, that we will not associate
or keep company with those who are at
enmity with us on account of our religious
belief, neither will we attend their places of
resort for dancing or other amusements.
	2d.—Resolved, that whereas slang phrases
and byewords, as they are termed, are un-
becoming and not lady like, we will refrain
from the use thereof.
	3rd.—Resolved, that inasmuch as it is a
portion of the word of wisdom to abstain
from the use of Tea and Coffee, we in order
to obtain the blessings accruing from observ-
ing the word of wisdom, will abstain from
the use of Tea and Coffee.
	4th.—Resolved, that we consider it our duty
to attend Sabbath and Fast meetings, Sun-
day Schools, and other gatherings where use-
ful information and instructions are impar-
ted.
	5th.—Resolved, that we will be reserved
in our actions in meetings, or elsewhere,
and cultivate good manners and true eti-
quette in our behavior.
	6th.—Resolved, that inasmuch as intoxi-
cating drinks are injurious to both body and
mind, and tend to impoverish, degrade and
ruin those who habituate themselves to the
[Column 3]
use thereof, we will try by our influence with
the youth of our community to have them
refrain from indulging in any such practice.
	7th.—Resolved, that we will always dress
neatly and in a becoming manner, not in-
dulging in the foolish fashions of the world,
but will try to create our own fashions, such
as will be conducive to our comfort.
	8th.—Resolved, that we will use our in-
fluence with our young brethren to have
them refrain from the use of Tobacco as it
is a filthy habit, injurious to health and dis-
pleasing in the sight of God.
	9th.—Resolved, that we will be studious
in our lives, seeking to obtain wisdom and
knowledge from the reading of good books
and other sources attainable.
	10th.—Resolved, that we will refrain
from indulging in round dancing, and aban-
don the desire for the same, having been
counseled so to do, as it is injurious to
health, and originated from an evil source.
	11th.—Resolved, that whereas profaning
the name of God is breaking a command-
ment, and is a low, degrading vice, we will
use our influence in subduing this disgrace-
ful habit by not associating with those who
persist in profanity.—
	MRS. L. G. RICHARDS.—above ex-
cellent resolutions have been read to Presi-
dent Young, who sanctioned them by say-
ing, "may God help them to keep them."
					E. R. S.
	ST. GEORGE, Washington Co.,
					Feb. 24th, 1875.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:
	A few of us sisters met together to-day,
and thought a short note would not be amiss
in your paper. We came here in November
to cook for the Temple hands, and have had
such a good time this winter. In the first
place, the meetings have been great feasts,
and then the St. George people have been so
kind to us. In the evenings it has been
like concerts in the shanties, which are near
the Temple. All appear to feel well and
enjoy themselves. In fact, they say they
never were happier in their lives.
	We have visited the Relief Society meet-
ings as often as we could and have had
good times. We heard their reports read.
They donated one hundred dollars last year,
and expect to do the same this year for the
Temple.
		Yours affectionately,
ANN HARVEY,	   MARY CHRISTOFERSON,
I. M. FINLAYSON,	   ALMIBA BRADLEY,
MINERVA ZUFELT, JANE MILLS,
BETTY WARSNIP,   MARTHA PHILLIPS,
		MARY A. BLINKA.
		ST. GEORGE, Feb. 21st, 1865.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Would you allow a little girl of twelve
years old to add to the list of your letters. I
have read in your beautiful paper all about
Retrenchment Associations in the City, and
I want to tell you about our little associa-
tion down here. It is called The Young
Ladies' Charitable Association. We are all
little girls, but the reason we call it the Young
Ladies' association is because we mean to
grow up to be young ladies, even old ladies
in it if we can. What we are doing in our
association at present is this; we are trying
to make a quilt as a donation for the temple.
After we get that done we are going to try
to learn how to braid straw so that we can 
make hats for the brethren. I am Secretary
in the association. We have chosen for our


little President, Miss Mabel Young. And
with our Heavenly Father's blessing we
will succeed if we are only little girls.
			Truly yours,
						IDA KEATE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[First column]
	﻿A STATISTICAL VIEW OF THE
		WOMAN QUESTION.
		BY CLARA NICOLSON.
	Some writer, learned in statistics, promul-
gated not long since, through the daily press,
the alarming discovery that the old Puritan
stock was fast dying out; that three fourths
of the children born in the United States
were of foreign parentage, and that the
greatest want of the age was American,
mothers. Having found a new string to
harp upon, with the persistency common
among journalists the time was taken up,
first by one editor and then another, until,
the melancholy refrain resounded over the
length and breadth of the land. At the
same time, had the present generation of
American girls, those “curled darlings of the
nation,” been asked what they considered
the greatest want of the Present day, they
would, with equal truth and emphasis, have
responded—“husbands!”
	That there is a growing distaste of matri-
mony manifested, on the part of the sterner
sex no observing person will deny; the cost
of living, the alleged extravagance of women,
and their own luxurious tastes, all pleading
in a life of single blessedness.
	"Far-sighted and match-making mammas
are recognising this fact and consequently
are taking their daughters to Europe, where
men are more plentiful and more apprecia-
tive. During the past two months all per-
sons who are opposed to the Woman's
Rights movement have heen reviving those
old-fashioned platitudes about prizing
women “ for their affection, not their intell-
ect,” and. are still defining woman’s sphere
as the
		"Sweet, safe corner of the household fire,
		  Behind the heads of children."
A charming position, which very few women
are averse to occupying, but unfortunately
thcse writers make no provision for the large
number of women for whom there is no
such fireside. Gentlemen, what do you pro-
pose to do with the old maids? Her mis-
fortune in being deprived of the stereotyped
“fire” and “children,” certainly entitles
her case to respectful and sympathetic con-
siderdation.
	All infants of the feminine gender imbibe
with their mother's milk the notion that
their greatest happiness in this life is to be
attained through the medium of the wed-
ding ring—a magical circlet, that encloses
every imaginable bliss, and typical of un-
ending joy. This belief grows with their
growth and strengthens with their strength,
and long before they leave school the fair
girl-graduates have mappcd put their bril-
liant careers, varying their Butler's Analo-
gy with analogies between their present
and future matrimonial state, problems in
Euclid with the more difficult problem of
how to catch a husband, and Moral Science
with the science of government they hope
some day to establish in their own house-
holds. In short, each one builds a charming
air-castle, of which she is to be the presiding
genius, her sovereignty being shared always
by some Adonis or Apollo Belvidere, with a
black or yellow moustache, whom she ex-
pects to meet, as soon as she is released from
her present thraldom, and whom she will
immediately accept and acknowledge as
her lord, her governor, her king!"
[Column 2]
But, alas! the young women of the pres-
ent day, instead of indulging in such vis-
ions, should have been studying the census,
which would at once have taught them that
even if every man in the United States were
ready to rush into matrimony upon the
slightest provocation, there would still be
some seven hundred and fifty thousand
women who must, unless they migrate to
Utah, be debarred from this mansion of hap-
piness. To tell women, under any circum-
stances, to "marry and they will be happy,'
is a work of supererogation, as no woman
ever presumed to question the truth of that
statement—until after she was married! To
preach such a doctrine at the present time
when the supply of husbands falls so far
short of the demand, is the refinement of
cruelty, and deserves the attention of some
feminine Bergh.
	But this noble army of martyrs, or single
women, whichever you prefer, being thus
condemned, from no fault of their own, and
doubtless much against their inclination, to
write themselves spinsters, should not a
chivalrous regard for their destitute condi-
tion make the superior sex end this inces-
sant talk about women devoting themselves
to their home duties, when, “charm they
never so wisely,” there are no homes for
them! The avalanche of old	maids
about to be precipitated upon the latter half
of the nineteenth century will, however,
serve one good purpose. It will be their
duty to bury this old-fashioned theory in ob-
livion, and prove that, although a woman
may have the misfortune to die unmarried,
their life is not necessarily a failure; and it
devolves upon them to show the world that
women, although beautiful in the home
circle, can ably and profitably fill other posi-
tions. Probably upon no other subject has
so much nonsense been written as upon
woman's sphere. A woman’s sphere, be she
married or single, is that in which her tal-
ents have fitted her to work to the best ad-
vantage.  Of course, we all know it is very
“unfeminine” for women to have talent,
but when they are possessed of such an un-
usual gift, it is presumptive evidence that
the faculty was intended for use. The
woman in the New Testament whom Christ
decreed should have honorable mention
wherever the Gospel was preached, was she
who had "done what she could.” Could
that have been said of Rosa Bonheur if she
had spent her life chanting infant lullabys?
And, although Harriet Hosmer would
doubtless have made an excellent wife and
mother, has she not achieved a higher des-
tiny, by hewing with her mallet and chisel
a new path for all women who have genius
and courage to follow her? Then, too, Miss
Edgeworth did the world good service when,
instead of marrying and burying her talent
in a napkin, because in her day it was “un-
feminine” for women to write, spoke the
truth that was in her, and thus exercised a
salutary influence over hundreds of nurser-
ies.
	That the married woman surrounded by
her little family, provided she has a hus-
band whom who can love, honor and obey
(which, with all due deference to the supe-
rior sex, does not always follow), will be the
happier woman, no sensible person will at-
tempt to deny. But that a woman must be
stigmatized because she is unmarried; that
any sort of a marriage brings happiness, and
that all women who seek happiness in other
directions are unfeminine, is the height of
absurdity. Besides, as the census assures
us, “they couldn’t if they would.” In
spite of themselves, at least half a million of
women now living in this land of happy
[Column 3]
homes and firesides must be deprived of the 
hitherto indispensable nursery; and so, gen-
tlemen, what do you propose to do with
them.—From the Phrenological Journal.


For the EXPONENT.
		SELF KNOWLEDGE.

	We have daily opportunities which may
contribute to making life grand and success-
ful. It is something to "know thyself." He is
who best knows himself is the one most un-
conscious of self. We have much to learn,
and a good deal within ourselves to subdue.
If every day of the year was valuably spent,
we would not travel too fast.  Feasting on
the charms of a beautiful landscape; making
acquaintance with the ideas of some enter-
taining author; or dispensing our influence
for the elevation of society: these we con-
sider among the most choice enjoyments of
our existence. But the eye will tire of land-
scapes be they ever so beautiful; the mind
requires rest from exaustive study; and
occasional solitude makes the society of
friends even more sweet. Here the plainest
duties of our lives lie before us. To do bet-
ter, to be better. We meet with a few per-
sons whose natural and most prominent ele-
ment of character is goodness; but the most
of us have to try pretty hard to equal them.
There has many a genius shown before the
world whose excellencies of conduct were
far inferior to the fame they bore; but such
have been admired rather than loved. Who
cares for the greatness that is not inclusive
of goodness? The heart's progress should
keep pace with that of the mind, and if a
difference there must be, let the former go a
little ahead. A strong, sharp, steely intel-
lect unwarmed by a humble, confessing heart
is as cold and unloveable as the Arctic re-
gions.
	We were born pure, but the world's edu-
cation has perverted the simple intentions
of nature, and selfishness and artifice is the
result. Does necessity bind us to remain so?
I think not. We can train our dispositions
and be what we like. Everyone almost has
peculiarly original traits of character. Those
that are noble can be improved by cultiva-
tion, and the pernicious ones may be over-
come.
	We are unused to self-criticism. Some of
our very faults we mistake for virtues. Un-
til we can learn the habit of home correction
we need not hope to become very nearly
perfect. The child that has been taught to
confess his faults is more sure of a useful
education than the one to whom the ac-
knowledgment is a stranger. Hard think-
ing is what we need. To be sure, a day's
good business requires some reflection; but
in its constant turmoil the better part of our
natures is liable to be suppressed, unless we
improve the minute chances offered us to
find out where we are, and what there is of 
us.
	The evening is a good time for self com-
munion; to ask ourselves if we have to-day
repaired the fault of yesterday. It often
happens that our best intentions are
known only to God, and the noblest actions
of men, I believe, are hidden from the
world's sight. Self reproofs may bring no
laurels while we tarry on this earth, but it
is a triumph over ignorance and blindness of
which the angels will take note. Cultivate
then a disposition  be entirely honest with
“myself,” and in doing so, you will be very
sure to deal fairly with others,
							KENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1875.


SPLINTERS.
			    LOCAL.
	The amount of freight shipped over the
Utah Central and Utah Southern Railroads
during the month of February was 37.525,
558 pounds......Jean Clara Walters, as "Ca-
mille," on the occasion of her benefit, drew
the best house Salt Lake theatre goers have
witnessed for some time......the interior of
the post office, last week, received a new
coat of paint......Reports of the Sabbath
Schools of the different Wards in this city
show that an increasing interest is being
awakened both among teachers and schol-
ars......The "Beaver Enterprise" which has
been sent to its subscribers for some time on
half-sheets only, hopes its troubles in get-
ting paper are over, and promises its patrons
better supplies......The editor of the "Utah
Pomologist" informs his friends that he has
discovered another new plant in Dixie. 
		PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Yoshida at Washington, lately re-
ceived a visit from Miss Yamagawa Nagai,
and Miss Shinge Sutematsu, two young Jap-
anese ladies......Mrs. J. M. Osgood, a favor-
ite soprano of Boston; has gone to Europe to
take lessons in music......Bishop Sharp, of
the 20th Ward of this city, has been elected 
a director of the U. P. R. R. Company......
Charles Sprague, the venerable banker poet
recently died in Boston, aged 83 years......
Bismarck, at the request of the Emperor,
will take a six months' vacation......Fred
Douglass is stumping New Hampshire in be-
half of the Republicans......Patti and Nils-
son are both in their thirty second year......
Govenor Bedle of New Jersey has nomina-
ted Manning M. Knapp of Bergen County,
as his own successor on the Supreme Court
Bench......Ellen B. Kingsley, of Olathe,
Kansas, has been invited to address the
State Legislature, on the industrial educa-
tion of women.
			GENERAL.
	Boston has one hundred and seventy-five
male and one thousand, sixty-six female
teachers......Congress has passed a bill to
check the importation of Asiatic women
.......It is believed that the cold weather has
entirely destroyed the fruit crop of Michi-
gan......Kansas contains three thousand, five
hundred and forty three school hosues;
three hundred and ninety-nine of them
have been built the past year.


"AS THE TWIG IS BENT."

	We often hear mothers wondering why
their daughters are so indolent, or ignorant
of household matters, or so careless in their
habits. They complain, and scold and fret
over it, but they make no attempt to teach
them any better.  The fault lies with the
mothers themselves; instead of training
their girls to habits of industry and neat-
ness, instead of instructing them in house-
hold ways, they have allowed them to grow
up without any training at all.  Girls are
not going to learn these things themselves;
they must be taught from the time they
are old enough to know how to be neat and
industrious. Train them carefully in house-
hold ways; teach them how to make pud-
dings, and cakes, and pickles, and pre-
serves: show them how to be tidy about a
house how to do everything in the neatest
manner.  Teach them both by precept and
example; it is worth the trouble; for, in-
stead of having drones and slatterns about
you, you will have well-trained and useful
helps.


ORDINARY PEOPLE.

	Very often we do not sufficiently appreci-
ate the ordinary type of character. We are
prone to underrate a character which is
without bold and striking traits. Genius,
eccentric, unstable, unpracticable, we es-
teem above those substantial, well-balanced
qualities, which we call "talents," and
which achieve real success. Those moral
characteristics which are most apparent and
demonstrative, draw attention from the ster-
ling, genuine worth which reveals itself
only on better acquaintance. As Everett
said of Washington, to depreciate a man be-
cause his character has only that harmonious
completeness which presents no bold and
conspicuous inequalities, is like finding
fault with a circle because it has no salient
points or angles, forgetting that the very
perfection of a circle demands that every
point in its curve shall be equi-distant from 
its center.


IN EARNEST.

	Fortunes, both of time and money, may be
spent in selecting and collecting books. The
works of renowned historians, scientists, doc-
tors, naturalists, philosophers and theologians,
and of all the great artists and poets may be
gathered, and a most complete library formed.
But, to what will all that amount?
	What will it profit one to be the owner of a
thousand precious volumes, who cares not to
familiarize and enrich the mind with the truths
which they contain? Not so much as the pos-
session of a single volume will the careful stu-
dent who becomes thoroughly acquainted with
it.
	Or even if the mind should be stored with
great treasures of wisdom, what benefit can be
realized therefrom, what reward met for all the
time spent, and pains taken, except the infor-
mation gained is applied to practical use?
	Laws and notes pertaining to physiology, hy-
giene and longevity may be studied for years
without the slightest beneficial result, if the
knowledge received be not utilized. While a
week’s reading, if put to proper account, may
accomplish a vast deal of good.
	The same rule applies to all other acquire-
ments. Wealth may be amassed, but if not
used to adorn and beautify, to enliven and make
happy, it were as well that it be scattered
broadcast as placed in an unserviceable, grace-
less heap.
	For many years the Latter-day Saints have
had the privilege of being instructed in the
ways of eternal life and salvation. The honest,
the pure, the sincere among them, those who
have been earnest in seeking to learn, realize
that their labors have in no wise been in vain.
They have treasured up wisdom for practical
purposes.


And still it is necessary that they become
more and more in earnest in striving to do the
will of the Lord on earth as it is done in heav
en, that truth may triumph and the enemies o
righteousness may be o'erthrown.


TO THE SISTERS.

	The "Utah Pomologist" for February, con-
tains an excellent article on "Important Home
Industries." We re-publish portions of it,
which treat of some of those branches in which
the ladies are more particularly interested.
	"The varied soil and climate of our Territory
give us opportunity above all other states and
territories to produce all we really need, besides
very many luxuries we can well do without.
Aside from the ordinary varieties of grain,
vegetables and fruits that grow abundantly and
generally through all our valleys, there are
many specialities that might be taken hold of
with great public and individual advantage,
saving thousands and soon millions of our
money from going abroad to furnish the goods
we may better supply to ourselves. Now we
will name some of the industries that might
and ought to be, developed by our citizens, and
not only furnish ourselves, but also our neigh-
boring states and territories with many neces-
saries we are now importing, and thus unneces-
sarily draining our country of what little mon-
ey may be afloat.
				SUGAR.
	The great staple of sugar takes from our ter-
ritory annually nearly a hundred thousand dol-
lars.  Here in the South we have soil and cli-
mate for sugar cane; and there is no country
in the world better adapted to the growth of
sugar beets than Utah generally.  Let the
amount expended one year for sugar be inves-
ted in machinery and set the people to raising
cane and sugar beets and this great drainage is
stopped. 
ROPES, CORDAGE, BAGGING AND CLOTH.
	Throughout the territory several textile plants
grow well, and here in the South all varieties
flourish abundantly. Hemp, flax, cotton, tam-
pico, jute and ramie may be grown here, and
the staple of these furnish all our ropes, cord-
age, bagging, grain sacks, warps for carpets and
summer clothing; and with wool, and mohair
from the Angora and Thibet goats, and silk,
adorn ourselves in the finest fabrics ever cut
from the loom.  Wool can be grown as cheap
here in the South as in California; and we can-
not read of any country where silk-worms are
more healthy or will produce as many crops per
year as in this region.
	Besides all the above textiles, we have thou-
sands of acres of Yucca on our deserts, which
furnish a staple, which, when shipped from
Central America, is called "Tampico," or Sea
Grass, makes strong ropes and cords, and is
much used for brushes, and even dyed and
braided to ornament the heads of our wives
and daughters, under the name of "Switches." 
	We have a great abundance of water power,
and able manufactureres and only need the en-
ergy and enterprise of our people stirred up
that another hundred thousand twice told, may
be saved at home to assist us to more capital,
that other new industries may be started.
OILS—CASTOR, SWEET AND ESSENTIAL.
	The Castor Oil Bean grows here very luxu-
riantly and so does the Bean from which much
of the sweet and salad oil of commerce is made.
Linseed, as we have said, does well. Sunflow-
ers are native to this country.  All of these
make valuable oils, and so does the seed of
grapes and cotton, and we have reason to be-
lieve that the Olive may be grown here.
	Then there are many native plants that yield
oil by distilation: Cedar, Southernwood, Eri-
geron, Peppermint, Wormwood, &c.
	Should we create a supply for our own peo-
ple for the various uses required, we might
count another twenty-five thousand dollars
saved at home.
FRUIT—CANNED, DRIED AND PRESERVED.
	No one will question the high excellence and
flavor of our fruits, and of these in great varie-
ty we can raise to any extent. There is at
least twenty-five thousand dollars expended
every year for canned fruit, then how much
more for wine, raisins and other dried and pre-


[Column 1]
served fruit, we are unable to say, but probably
a like amount. And all this we might save at
home, for our grapes will make as good wine
and raisins as those of France or Spain; and as
for prunes, figs, almonds and other nuts, we
can not only supply ourselves but our neigh-
bors also.
	Fruit canning is a simple process, and can be
done as well here as in Baltimore or San Fran-
cisco, and bring us a revenue instead of deplet-
ing our purses.
	RICE, (upland), SWEET POTATOE, PEANUTS
			AND BROOM-CORN,
All important products and costing us a hand-
some sum each year, may be produced here in
abundance, and much enlarge our industries
and exports, if taken hold of energetically.
		SILK CULTURE
Is an industry very specially adapted to our
circumstances and business of great magnitude
which has only been experimented with enough
to show its adaptibility and prove that here
four crops of silk may be made from the same
trees each season. The eggs produced here are
most valuable and the cocoons bring a premi-
um. Now who is ready to undertake this light
and profitable business.
			HONEY.
	Honey is also a staple delicacy, and always
obtained at great profit to the apiarian. It
brings a high price at home and among our
neighbors in the mining camps. Very few dis-
tricts have as many bees as may be profitably
kept, and but very few have any at all.
	If this industry was up to the capacity of
forage, every thousand inhabitants might have
from two to five tons of honey, which, if made
by consumers, at an average expense of five
cents per pound."
	"Many are called but few chosen." Every
branch of the Relief Society throughout the
length and breadth of this Territory, and
wherever a branch of the Church extends, is
called upon to lay hold of this subject of home
industry with a will, and to take active part in
the great work of bringing about the perfect
organization of a self-sustaining people. A few
may be chosen to lead out in some special
branches, but necessarily is it left for the many
to look about them, consider to what their ten-
dencies and circumstances are best adapted,
and move forward.
	Shall we wait one for another? Can we af-
ford to wait in the consumption of food, of
clothing, of life's necessities? Let each branch,
and each member of a branch remember that
all are consumers and that not one should be
satisfied to acknowledge herself in all respects
a non-producer.
	There is paying work enough before this peo-
ple to keep them all well employed. If any
one fails to see at a glance, a way of introduc-
ing the kind of work best suited to her capaci-
ties, or if she is ignorant of her own abilities
to accomplish something worthy of regard, let
her begin and exercise her brain a little. And
if she is in earnest, without fail, something
will come to light from which she may deter-
mine at what point she can best commence.
	Just now, our mind reverts back a few years,
to a time when we were personally acquainted
with an English lady who made very fine
beautiful lace. Pillow lace, she called it, as it was
woven upon a pillow, the fabric held in place
by pins, while she tossed about numerous little
bodkins which contained the thread. That
was the trade by which her father had suppor-
ted himself and family, and which he taught
her when a child.
	Here the thought occurs, why should the
daughters of Zion pay money to strangers for
lace collars and trimmings, while among them-
selves are members, capable of producing the
same articles? We doubt not there are many
such weavers among this people. Suppose,
however, there could be but one woman found
in the great family of Latter-day Saints, who
[Column 2]
had mastered the business of lace making.
Could she be expected to make, with her own
hands, enough or a quarter of the amount re-
quired by her beauty-loving sisters? No, but
she might be able to do a thousandth part of
it; and she could easily teach hundreds of oth-
ers how to do the same, and thus the demand
for laces, would be supplied.  In like manner
everything desirable may, in a few years, be
furnished us at home; and we shall have a sur-
plus of goods to sell to our neighbors instead of
buying of them.
	It is now quite generally conceded that the
influence which woman wields is the standard
power of a community or nation. President
Young does the Relief Society the credit to
say that they can take hold of these home in-
dustries and accomplish the desired purpose.
Let it never be said to them, "Ye would not!"
	It is now time that those who purpose inter-
esting themselves in silk culture, commencing
this season, should be making calculations for
a start. As soon as the ground is sufficiently
thawed, the mulberry cuttings should be put
out. We understand that President Young
proffers to supply cuttings from his orchard to
the sisters for this purpose. And his advice to
them is, that they begin now, instead of put-
ting off for another year what should be done
this.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE "UTAH Pomologist"—owned and edited
by J. E. Johnson of St. George—appears in an
enlarged and improved form.
	AT FOUR o'clock on the, afternoon of the fifth
inst., the last stone was laid, which completed
the mason work upon the St. George Temple.
	A CONSIDERABLE amount of snow has fallen
in this valley since the beginning of Spring;
but almost every alternate day the sun shines
warm and bright, and anon the white carpet
disappears.
	THE ERECTION of a Scandinavian Public
Hall is contemplated by the people of that na-
tionality in this city. It is designed to be used
as a place for religious services, and also as a
home of welcome for newly arrived emigrants
from Scandinavia.
	THE THIRTEENTH Ward branch of the Re-
lief Society, gave a very entertaining party on
the evening of the tenth inst. Presidents
Young and Wells gladdened the occasion for a
short time with their genial presence. The
hall was not crowded, but those who did par-
ticipate, passed an evening of rare social en-
joyment.


[First column]
			﻿HUMILITY.
WRITTEN FOR, AND READ BEFORE A RE-
	TRENCHMENT MEETING OF THE ELEVENTH
	WARD, S. L. CITY.
	When our Savior was asked by His dis-
ciples, who was greatest in the kingdom of
heaven, He called a little child unto Him
and sat him in the midst of them and said,
"Verily I say unto you, except ye be con-
verted and become as little children, ye can-
not enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoso-
ever, therefore, shall humble himself as this
little child, the same is greatest in the king-
dom of heaven?"
	The teachings of Jesus on this subject
were very pointed and forcible. He not
only exhorted His followers to cultivate this
greatest of all traits of human character, but
was Himself the most perfect example.
[Column 2]
That trait which will make us the greatest
and best, most amiable and god-like is the
one we should the most earnestly seek to
possess. Although we should cultivate all
those noble attributes which make the per-
fect man or woman, but first endeavor to
develop the leading virtues, the moving
powers of those subordinate, but none the
less essential to our perfection. What spirit
is more beautiful to contemplate than that of
humility, meekness, submission to all things
pure and just? It is the noblest feeling of
the heart, one that the purified of heaven
can look upon with pleasure and approba-
tion. It invites, and is possessed of power
to retain the spirit of God. Our Savior said
"Blessed are the meek, for they shall inher-
it the earth." The histories of past genera-
tions bear record that the Lord delights in
an humble people, and He blesses them
with peace and prosperity so long as they
remain teachable, and humble enough to
receive the instructions of His servants.
But when they through neglect of prayer,
would allow the spirit of pride, arrogance
and harshness to creep into their hearts, He
would withdraw His spirit from them and
suffer them to be scourged and destroyed by
their enemies. It is so with us as individ-
uals; if we are not meek and contrite, our
Father will withdraw the light of His spirit
from us and the powers of the adversary will
assail us on every hand.
	The fault of youth, when just starting in
life, filled with brilliant anticipations of a
glorious and satisfactory future, is too much
confidence in self, being regardless of the
teachings and warnings of personal experi-
ence. They rely too much upon their own
responsibility, with the idea that they can
accomplish whatever they please; and too
often forget that there is One above who
holds their destiny in His hands. Through
pride we are sometimes persuaded to ac-
cept positions for which we are not quali
fied. It is always best to take the lowest
position until we merit a higher. "He that
exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that
humbleth himself shall be exalted." It
grieves the spirit of the Lord when His
children sit themselves up in judgement
against the instructions of His servants and
inspired prophets, those whom we should
daily exhort Our Father in Heaven to fill
with wisdom and intelligence to impart to
us. A sure test of our humility is the way
we receive reproof or correction for mis-
deeds. If humble we will be grateful to
those who show us our faults, and seek to
overcome them. But on the contrary, where
pride bears sway we will be quickly offen-
ded, resent censure and rise up in self justi-
fication. Humility is founded on a jus-
consideration of the position we hold to Him
who placed us here and by whose mercies
we are sustained. It arises from reflection
on our own weaknesses. The most humble
persons live the nearest to God, are ever un-
assuming, gentle and courteous. Their
presence creates a feeling of contentment
and security; they are slow to censure and
their aim is to promote peace and happiness.
It is the possession of humility united with
the other many virtues of the heart, that
will save us in the presence of Him who
said "I dwell in the hearts of the contrite."
	Let us endeavor to become charitable and
forgiving, just and virtuous; to love God
and keep his commandments, love Him
with all our might, mind and strength, and
our neighbors as ourselves," then shall we
perform the whole duty of man.     L. T.


TRUST not the praise of a friend nor the
contempt of an enemy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		RESIGNATION.
Out in the frozen night,
	Moonbeams falling round,
Chilling moonbeams, wan and white,
	Asleep on the dreary ground.
One brillant, lone, bright star,
	Seems resting gently now—
Where a dark line meets the open sky,
	On the mountain's rugged brow.
So near to the verge it seems,
	Looking up from where I stand,
That a child would think, could it gain that spot.
	It might grasp it with outstretched hand.
And the thought comes over my soul,
	With a bitter, painful start,
It is even thus with the brilliant hopes
	That rest in the human heart.
They seem so near to our lives;
	So firm in their beauty clear,
That we dream not their source is far out in heaven
	While only the light falls here;
'Till the clouds of this care-worn world,
	Drifting up in their gloom and wrath,
Hide the beautiful rays, and we find no more,
	Their tracings along our path.
And shadows creep over the soul,
	Their presence pierce eye and brain
With voiceless cries for the vanished light,
	'Till the heart grows still with pain.
And sometimes out from that silence deep,
	Breaks a whisper low and light,
Chasing the sorrow from eyes that weep,
	Changing the gloomiest night.
And our souls are filled with that holy love
	Coming down from Eternity's throne,
As we murmur with patient and pleading hearts
	"God's will is above our own!"
Out in the solemn night,
	Moonbeams falling round,
Beautiful moonbeams, warm and bright,
	Veiling the frozen ground.
And the mountains bleak in their rugged might,
	Are a covert for peaceful walls;
The star looks down with a tender light,
	A tear-drop starts—and falls.
							MILLICENT.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Hints on Cooking.—Dried grains, or meal and
flour prepared from dried grains, are generally more
wholesome and digestible when cooked slowly and
a long time.  Soaking or fermenting aids the cook,
though both are objectionable if we want the very
best food.  Wheat, beans, hominy, etc., are far
sweeter and more nutritious if well washed and
put into plenty of "cold water" and slowly brought
to boil, and then kept boiling slowly for several
hours. Where salt is put into such food it should 
be added when the grain is quite done, and cooked
in for only half an hour.  All preparations of In-
dian corn require much longer cooking to make
them wholesome than those made from wheat.
	Fresh vegetables generally require to be put into
boiling water, and to be cooked more rapidly.
Steaming, which is the hottest mode of cooking, is
the most complete, and prepares vegetables with
all their juices and aroma.  It is a great mistake
to leave the kettle uncovered while any green vege-
table is cooking.
	Greases of any kind melted and cooked into food
destroys the best taste of any food.  If it is to be
used at all, it should be thoroughly worked into
some other ingredient before adding it to the arti-
cle which is cooking, or to be cooked.  In all
cases where flour and butter are to be put in mix
them together, and then the butter will not float
nor will the flour lump. Sugar and butter mixed
will produce the same effect. Suet for puddings
can be left out with but little perceptible effect on
their richness, by supplying the place with the
same quantity of scalded cream or rich milk.
	Greasing baking pans can be accomplished with
less grease by using a firm swab to rub the pan, or

[Column 2]
a cloth rolled up, and rubbing the pan with a very
little grease. A crust of bread rubbed hard upon
a griddle will cure it of sticking
	Scalding flour or meal partly cooks and sweetens
them, and prevents rapid fermentation.  Scalding
milk does the same. Scalded sour milk becomes
sweet, the whey separated from the curd is easily
digested, and is better than shortening in bread.
	Milk and eggs are completely cooked so as to be
of easy digestion, in a few minutes; or if cooked
longer, it should be for at least an hour, as baked
slowly for an hour they become very soft and rich,
really excellent.  They seem to be easily digested
also, after this long cooking.  Meats in the same
way should be cooked rare, or a long time.
	One fresh egg is worth two of those where the
yolks break while breaking the shells; for making
custard, cakes, etc., they should not be used at all;
better to do without the custards or cakes, or make
them with cream yeast and corn starch. Many
excellent dishes otherwise, are spoiled by  addi-
tion of eggs; rice, for instance, baked with milk
for several hours makes the very best pudding we
know of, but with eggs it is positively abominable;
it needs no further description.
	To cook fruits just right requires care and skill; 
apple sauce is a very simple preparation, but, like
almost everything else, must be attended to in
every detail if we would have a nice wholesome
dish. It depends entirely on the kind or quality of
the apple whether it should be cooked a short or a 
long time; fine grained apples generally make the 
best sauce or pies.  Never sweeten stewed fruits
until they are quite soft and pulpy, and then cook
but a few minutes afterward.
	In simply canning fruit of any kind, no sugar
should be used if we wish uniform success; and no
trouble of doing them over.  If you know how to
can fruits, try them without sugar and see how
much more invariably your success and how much
nearer the real natural flavor of the fruit you will
approach.  There is another secret of successful
canning worth knowing, that is, after filling the 
can as full as it will hold, let it stand open five or
ten minutes, shake it down once or twice and put
in another spoonful, then put the lid on and seal it
down.  All the air is removed by this simple ven-
ture, and you will seldom find a can bursting or the
fruit spoiling.  We have canned bushels of peaches,
tomatoes, and ever other desirable fruit within our
reach, with unvarying success, in this way.  In a
word, the simplest and most economical way of
cooking, in  every department, is generally the bet-
ter way.  There is a great deal of natural science
in good cooking, as we will often find that the "rea-
son why" is easily found if we apply some simple
lesson of chemistry.—Herald of Health.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	GOOD food secures good digestion, and
with good digestion half the ills of life take
to themselves wings and fly away.
	REMOVING WARTS.—Dr. Guttceit recom-
mends rubbing warts, night and morning, 
with a moistened piece of muriate of am-
monia. They soften and dwindle away,
leaving no such white mark as follows their
dispersion with lunar caustic.
	BEST POSITION FOR SLEEPING.—Is it well
when lying down to have the head even
with the body?
	ANS.—The body should not be confined to
one position in sleep, more than when
awake. Variety is essential; still, general-
ly, it is best to sleep principally on the side,
varying it to partially on the face, and occa-
sionally on the back. The head should be
even with the body. If sleeping on the 
side, a thin pillow will be necessary to bring
the head on a line with the body.—Herald of
Health.
	A SIMPLE METHOD OF VENTILATION.—


A piece of wood, three inches high and ex-
actly as long as the breadth of the window;
is to be prepared.  Let the sash be now
raised, the slip of wood placed on the sill,
and the sash let down closely upon it.  If the
slip has been well fitted, there will be no
draft in consequence of the displacement of
the sash at its lower part, but the top of the
lower sash will overlap the bottom of the
upper one, and between the bars perpendic-
ular currents of air, not felt, will enter and 
leave the room.
	SCARLET FEVER.—Upon the recommen-
dation of Schneeman, the anointing of the
body with fat in cases of scarlet fever has 
been extensively practised in Germany for
a number of years.  Cocoa butter is recom-
mended for this purpose. In severe fevers,
the entire surface of the body should be
rubbed every hour or at least once in four
hours.  The same treatment is recommend-
ed for typhoid fever,and other inflammatory
diseases, especially inflammatory rheuma-
tism, and tuberculosis.
	S. C. HALL, a distinguished English
writer, whose wife is equally well known as
an authoress, says in a letter to the Herald
of Health: "Thank God, though most three
score and ten—I by three years and my
wife by not much less—we enjoy good
health; are still at work.  I published a book 
in 1820, and Mrs. Hall began to write in 
1825, soon after our marriage, the 20th of
September, 1824.  We have a happy retro-
spect, for which we give God thanks, and a 
prospect that we shall be together, grateful
and prayerful to Him through eternity.  To
temperance we owe our health, to faith and
trust in God our many blessings.


For the EXPONENT.
		FAITH VERSUS FORM.

	Seeds are often small things but they are
the beginnings of organized life.  In spirit-
ual things no faith, no life; no faith im-
planted, no growth. Not that all seeds grow,
or that all faith grows and ripens to fruition.
As seeds grow by that which comes from
above, so does faith, with this difference; the
substance that faith thrives on must be ask-
ed for.
	I had received the gospel.  The "still
small voice" that had whispered, and
whispered, at last spoke audibly by the lips
of the servants of the Lord, and, the voice
was known.
	How natural it is for memory to recur to
the scenes of childhood; what fancy pictures
are shown to the mind's eye, indistinct but
charming as seen in the distant past.  After
many years had past away I visited my na-
tive home, how dwarfed and different, things
seemed when in reality.  The cozy little
nooks that I had seen beneath the hawthorn
hedges, so velvety and flower adorned that
fairies might have dwelt in them were ban-
ished.  But in their place there were wild
flowers such as I had not seen in childhood;
if the meadows seemed contracted in size,
there were the same old familiar trees around
the same natural objects to look upon, even
to the butter-cups and daisies.
	And these, I felt, are thine, my Father!
how beautiful all nature looked. The
heavens more gay and golden; the air I
breathed more elastic, the fragrance of the
May-bloom more delightful.
	How natural for me to visit the old col-
legiate church. The approaches to the ven-
erable edifice were the same, the very tomb-
stones in the church-yard might have been
the same, the church which had stood for
centuries was wholly unchanged. With


feelings of profound veneration I entered,
more than a third of a century had past since
I had crossed that threshold.  There stood
the font in which I had been baptized ac-
cording to the Anglican mode, by sprinkling.
The chancel was unchanged; the same tiny
glass panes in the windows, the same sub-
dued but gorgeous colors streaming in
through the stained glass that represented
apostles and saints as fancy has painted
them; there were the effigies* of warriors
and knights reposing at full length on the
tombs just as I had seen them with a sense
of mystery in the days of childhood.  The
same little niches and recesses that I had
often wondered where they could possibly
lead to, marble tablets with little cherubs
sitting on them and angels blowing trump-
ets towards the ceiling. There was no
change perceptable in all these long, long
years. 
	The services commenced. There were
the childish choristers in vestments of the
fairest white, standing in the same order
that I had seen them around the magnificent
organ.  The priest in his desk read the
prayers with faultless intonation. Beneath
him stood the clerk who lead the responses
which were inaudibly uttered by the peo-
ple. I found myself falling into a reverie
and wondering why the priest was dressed
in white and the clerk in black. Why could
I not feel as I had felt in the fields?
	I looked around at the congregation and
I wished myself away to weep for the deso-
lation of the people; but the music spared
me.  The organ pealed forth in almost hu-
man voice accompanied by the voices of old
and young in sacred song.
	"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."
	O Father! when will all thy children sing
thy praises understandingly. We, as a peo-
ple have the Priesthood—living oracles, life-
giving ordinances.  This is something to
teach our children, to inspire them with
faith. We may have to leave them for a 
season; we may have to look down upon
them struggling through this probation, but
angels will minister to them, and we shall
meet again! 
						AVONDALE.
	*It was a practice from very early ages to
bury warriors and distinguished persons in
churches, abbeys and cathedrals, over whose
remains were erected tombs on which were
the effigies or likeness of the departed.
Warriors were represented in armor, bish-
ops in ecclesiastical habilimenss, kings and
queens with the insignia or signs of royal-
ity &c.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			 	
.﻿


[Column 2]
	WHY SOME WOMEN WRITE.
BY BLANCHE REECHWOOD.
					E.B. WELLS
	Is it, think you, for the love of scribbling?
Is that the clearly distinguishing character-
istic?  Is it to describe unheard of adven-
tures, or record exaggerated marvels? Is
it to show up people's faults in glowing col-
ors, to descant upon the virtues of our sex
and the corruptions of mankind?  Is it to
generalize into grander shape humble indi-
vidualities, or to glorify the picture of a
cottage with the colorings of imagination?
Is it to exalt and idealize the beggar into a
hero, with plenty of similar adventures and
circumstantials, with perfectly identical
ideas, on all imaginable topics? Such nov-
elties are called for, in this halcyon age of
authorship—this summer season for the "So-
sii," this every day a birthday for a hun-
dred books—this recognized literary tribu-
nal, this judgment hall of master spirits,

[Column 2]
who swell the ranks of journalists, of editors
and book children.
	Is it to tear the veil of decent privacy
from social life, to rebuke, betray and de-
stroy confidence; to gratify a public appe-
tite for secret information?  God forbid!
This unhallowed spirit of outward curiosity;
this trespassing upon the sacred precincts
of private circles for hinted scandal, to pub-
lish to the world, is to my mind a thing to
be feared.  The present hunger for this
kind of reading, is a thing to be exclaimed
against; one should shrink with horror, from 
"this lengthy snake with a rattle in its
tail."
	Everybody writes to everybody about
everything; or as oftener happens, about
nothing.  Some people are born to talk with
an incessant tongue, some to write, to chat-
ter in print, such being their character from
birth.  Heaven give US wisdom and a judg-
ment strong enough, to rein-in imagination;
and surround us with wholesome counsels
from better living minds.
	Frail mortals we! With all the imperfec-
tions of our common natures, we enter the list
with others, accepting necessarily common
praise or censure as the case may be.  Ideas
may be round about us thick as daisies in a
summer meadow.  But as Sir Philip Sidney
said, "Look into your own heart and write.
And as I have no personalities to complain
of, no self-interests to serve, for the past
have been well entreated, for the future I
will not suggest even a possibility.  I pray
you, gentle reader, be charitable to mixtures
of alternate gaiety and soberness, as in thine
own mind if thou searchest, thou shalt find
a sympathy for woman's weaknesses, and
'a charity which covereth a multitude of
faults.'" Let us not be too severe in indi-
vidual confessions, nor play the hypocrite,
but tell the truth, and be consistent as we
can of frailties incident to mortality. Let
us weave our net, though of various tex-
tures, carefully—and leave the harvest of
praise or blame for those critics who shall
come after us.  We will not, according to
the vulgar saying, "give the colt his head
and let him go;" but strive by rein, and bit,
and all possible equipments, to become a re-
sponsible rider, touching his ears but light-
ly, lest we loose our balance.
	And now an honest word at parting; if
you should find out the veritable name of
your weak, confessing scribe, think not the
less kindly of her; and while with inde-
fatigable industry and untiring patience, we
exercise our powers of mind, and humble
judgment, in sounding forth our woman's
opinion, although strongly enough expressed
—judge, not hastily, or superciliously.  peo-
ple think very much as they are told to
think, speaking generally, without question;
guided by their teachers, without calling
into exercise their own capacity, patience or
will. And the grand fault is the everlast-
ing hurry; for  very lack of time—perhaps
wearied, or piqued, or biased, jump at a
conclusion, and join in public opinion with
a voice of thunder.


IN India there is one Christian preacher
to about a million heathens.  In some of our
Christian villages there are half a dozen
preachers to a few hundred souls.
	THE officers of the People's Savings In-
stitution of St. Louis have made an assign-
ment.  The amount of deposits is about
$60,000 belonging to about 2000 people.
	IT is stated as a historical fact, that no
man who has graduated at the head of his
class at Havard College, within the last
fifty-five years, has used spirits or tobacco in
any form.


ABOUT DRAWING
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Not only woman, but also man can feel
interested in the good work in which your
valuable paper is engaged, and I for one, al-
ways read with pleasure, articles intended
to do good to young and old. In a late
number of the Exponent, the subject of
drawing, in Schools is treated upon from a
moral and physiological stand point. The
arguments are correct, I know by my own
experience.
	It is desireable that our young folks, boys
and girls also should find enjoyments more
elevating and noble than those which quite
a number form acquaintance with, which
although often harmless in themselves tend
to keep their minds below the height to
which they can attain if only properly cared
for. I never, in my mind, dwelt much on
the physiological result, but felt always cer-
tain that the world can be greatly improved
by the cultivation of the fine arts, for he
who loves the beautiful, loves the good.
	One great end we should have in view in
teaching drawing is "the material building
of Zion, the New Jerusalem."(?)
	We are told, and are pleased sometimes
to dream of its magnificent sceneries, its
sublime aspects and all its various beauties.
But how are all these to be attained? Cer-
tainly drawing will fill a great part in such
a work, and men (and also women) will be
engaged in it.
	Surveyors to plan the city, architects to
design its buildings and monuments, sculptors
to ornament them, painters to adorn their
chambers; these need and cannot possibly do
their part without a thorough knowledge of
of drawing. Even mechanics engaged in the
different branches of building, are more
skilled when they are good draughtsmen;
they aer better able to understand and ex-
ecute the plans and designs confided to them.
	And what of the Ladies' part? Well,
what of the beautiful tapestry, curtains, car-
pets, and so many other beauties of loom or
needle work! Shall we then be satisfied
with our old fashioned rag carpets or our star
spangled quilts. I doubt it very much.
Ladies will find a great work to perform in
beautifying the Kingdom, although they are
themselves already its chief beauty.
	Let all who desire to do their part, learn,
or teach or encourage in every possible way
the study of drawing. A good will is the
principal stock required in such a study,
and many great artists were self-made
artists; God is for us, and will bless all our
endeavors to do good.
	Although not an artist myself, I am a lover
of art and if it is possible, I certainly will
do my part; and I will say before I close,
that having studied drawing alone, I can en-
courage others, saying that it is not difficult,
but it takes a great deal of patience and self
reliance in the beginning.
	I subscribe myself your brother in the
Gospel.						P. L.


﻿THE Smith Sisters of Glastonbury, Ct.,
whose case against Tax Collector Andrews
for seizing their land for non-payment of
taxes, has been decided against them in the
Court of Common Pleas at Hartford, will
appeal to the Supreme Court.


MISS LOUISA LEE SCHUYLER has made a 
partial examination of different systems of
reform in England and Germany, and is en-
deavoring to carry out in this country some
of the good ideas which have been suggest-
ed to her by such an inspection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. ELIZABETH K. CHURCHCHILL, has
just returned to her home. No. 138 Pine St.,
Providence, R. I., from a very successful
lecturing tour in the West.
	IT is said of Mrs. M. H. Holt, of South
Edmeston, N. Y., that through her efforts,
united with a few other faithful workers,
not one drop of liquor is now sold in that
place. It has become a community of in-
dustry, temperance, peace and love.
	QUEEN VICTORIA, on recommendation of
her Prime Minister, has granted a pension
of $250 year to the widow of Giovani
Battista Falcieri, the servant of Byron, who
is celebrated in the writings of his master,
as well as in those of Moore, Rogers and
Shelley, by the name of "Tita."
	MISS SNEAD, who, as "Miss Grundy," is
familiar to most newspaper readers is dan-
gerously ill; she has been in poor health for
two or three years. Miss Snead deserves a 
separate niche in the history of Washington
journalism. She was the first "society
writer" from Washington City.
	THE Crown Princess of Germany has pre-
sented as a Christmas gift to the widow of
Professor Schwabe, late Director of the Ber-
lin Statistical Office, in recognition of his
active assistance to the Crown Princess's ef-
forts for the amelioration of the social posi-
tion of women, an annual addition of 200
thalers to her pension.
	MISS ELLEN D. LARNED, of Thompson,
Ct., has just commenced issuing by sub-
scription the first volume of the History of 
Windham Co., Ct. Her first date is 1676,
and she has spared no pains in copying old
records. The last ten years have been de-
voted to unearthing everything of ancient
events that could interest the decendants of 
this noble old county.  The second volume
is in an advanced state, and her friends pre-
dict that the complete work from her bril-
liant pen, will be one of the most marked
historical works that have ever been pro-
duced by a woman.


PECULIARITIES OF HUMAN NATURE.

	The scriptures say that God made man af-
ter his own likeness, but through lapse of
time and change of circumstances a great
variety is the apparent result. I'll mention
a few of the most striking features in this 
great change. There is the Negro race, and
another prominent feature is the giant and
the dwarf, and in fine, each individual is
unlike another, and as we view in the whole
human race this endless variety we are led
to conjecture, whether the inner man is as
varied as the outer man. By research and
and the aid of science, we are supported to
form a correct conclusion; and the inference
we draw is that the outer man is the symbol
or type of the inner. And in the organiza-
tion of men we see great extremes, which
often amounts to deformity. To speak in a
vague manner, some are all mouth and some
all tongue. These two features, particularly
the latter, I would shun and flee from as
from a scorpion. Then there is the egotist
who thinks that no one can tire of him; the
bump of self esteem make his head quite
top heavy. And then again there is the
bully, I don't know any other name to call
him by, whose bumps of combativeness and
destructiveness are so great that if he is
neighbor to you and you do not want to
live in hot water, you had better turn the
key of your gate, or sell out, unless you can
gratify him by meeting him on some promi-


nent grounds of his organization, if he has
large alimentiveness, invite him to a good
supper, and never ask a favor of him on an
empty stomach.  If it is approbativeness and
philoprogenitiveness, praise his children.
Perhaps by this course you can smother the
sleeping lion; but if you do not find yourself
successful, make a little study of phrenology
and physiognomy, which are great indexes
to the humah mind.
	Our Relief Society Sisters, in their ad-
ministration to the wants of the poor, and
caring for the sick, often come in contact
with the good, who from some unforseen
circumstances have been left, crippled in
their powers. To such it is a comfort to ad-
minister relief, and they feel blessed, as the
giver as well as the receiver. And
so we might go on, bringing to notice the
different traits of character possessed by in
dividuals, until we should weary of the sub-
ject, while yet not half the peculiarities of
human nature had been touched upon.  But
as Latter-day Saints, knowing as we do that
we must learn to see and act alike in all
matters of importance, before we can be en-
tirely owned and blessed of God our Father;
and having access to the great, eternal
fountain of wisdom and truth, it is for us
to mature and improve every correct and
noble sentiment and impulse of our natures,
and to root out, overcome and thrust aside
all that is unpleasant, unprofitable and un-
true.						I'LL TRY.


"GOOD MORNING."

	Dont forget to say "good morning!" Say
it to your parents, your brothers and sis-
ters, your schoolmates, your teachers, and 
say it cheerfully and with a smile; it will do
you good. There's a kind of inspiration in
every "good morning," heartily and smil-
ingly spoken, that helps to make hope fresh-
er and work lighter. It seems really to
make the morning good, and to be a 
prophecy of a good day to come after it.
And if this be true of the "good morning,"
it is so also of all kind, heartsome greetings;
they cheer the discouraged, rest the tired 
one, and somehow make the wheels of life
run more smoothly. Be liberal with them,
then, and let no morning pass, however dark
and gloomy it may be, that you do not at
least help to brighten by your smiles and
cheerful words.


CORRECT SPEAKING

	We advise all young people to acquire the
habit of correct speaking and writing, and
to abandon as early as possible any use of
slang words or phrases.  The longer you
live, the more difficult the acquirement of
correct language will be; and if the golden
age of youth, the proper season for the ac-
quisition of language, be passed in abuse,
the unfortunate victim, if neglected, is very
properly doomed to talk slang for life.  Money
is unnecessary to procure this education.
Every man has it in his power.  He has
merely to use the language which he reads,
instead of the slang which he hears; to form
his taste from the best speakers and poets
in the country; to treasure up choice phrases
in his memory and habituate himself to
their use, avoiding at the same time that
pedantic precision and bombast which shows
the weakness of vain ambition, rather than
the polish of an educated man.


THE Washington correspondent of the
Chicago Times writes that "the grade of
correspondence from the National Capital


promises to improve materially.  All of the
large newspapers of the country are recog-
nizing the necessity of having able, impar-
tial letter-writers there, while the attention
given to the selecting and forwarding of
immediate telegraphic news, increases every
year. No paper of any pretentions to in-
fluence is now without its telegraphic cor-
respondent at Washington, and all the lead-
ing journals make special arrangements for
continuous letter-writing during the session,
and occasional epistolatory work during va-
cation."


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			       OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
  			     AND
	    GENERAL DRY GOODS. 
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store.
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume.
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$ 18 00
15 copies; 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1875	No. 21﻿


WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I will try to express my feelings through
our paper—as I think I can give much bet-
ter expression to them here, than I can
when I stand up and attempt to address my
sisters in a meeting.
	I feel well in the work which has been
established in these latter days, and my
constant desire is, to exert every faculty I
possess, and all the powers of mind and
heart bestowed upon me, in assisting to
bring about those great events, which must
transpire in this our day and generation. I 
wish to study myself, and live every day a
true life. I know I am weak and liable to
be overcome, to err and swerve from the
path of duty. But afterwards I feel sorrow-
ful, conscious that I did not control myself,
and that I have grieved those around me,
and that it was displeasing in the sight of
my Heavenly Father. But I pray God to
help me and to bless me, and all of us, with
his Holy Spirit, that we may be guided into 
a proper channel of thought and feeling—
that we may overcome every evil propensi-
ty and tendency of our natures. That we
may reform and purify ourselves, that all
our actions may be pleasing in the sight of
God, that He will be willing to acknowledge
us as His children. I know if we will pray
to him earnestly for His aid and assistance,
He will bless and help us to understand His
will concerning us, and preserve us from the
many evils incident to mortality. And if
we live thus near to him, we shall be able
to discern His hand and kind providences,
in all the circumstances of our lives.
	Smithfield, Cache Co.		S. M.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Feeling a great interest in the cause
which you have with such earnestness es-
poused, I would ask permission for a small
insertion in your paper. I know my ina-
bility to write anything that would be par-
ticularly interesting to your readers. Yet
it is well for us as sisters, to exchange ideas
and sentiments, and thus cultivate our
minds and enlarge our abilities. With this
view, I venture, for the first time, to risk a
sentence from my pen to be presented for
public criticism. I have a testimony to
bear concerning the goodness of God to His
Saints. In looking about me, I often mar-
vel at His wonderous kindness in blessing
us so abundantly. How great is the mercy
He manifests in bearing with us, with all
our follies and inconsistencies! How long
we have been taught, counselled and ex-
horted to follow the perfect ways of Christ;
yet how slow we are to learn, to understand
and to execute!
	Now, a thought comes to me. A few
moments ago, I was considering within my-
self, that truly, nothing could serve to make
us more charitable in our criticims of other
writers, than to endeavor, ourselves, to
write. And here I see that, as "God was
as we are, but has become an exalted being,"
He comprehends most perfectly all the diffi-
culties which we must encounter in our
journey through life. Hence His great
wisdom in directing our course, His long
suffering and boundless mercies in sustain-
[Column 2]
ing us, even with all our short-comings, and
His unspeakable joy over us when we tri-
umph over wrong.				J. E. M.
	Hyde Park, Cache Co.

MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:
	As I have a few leisure moments I thought
I would address a few lines to the EXPO-
NENT.
	I am away from home have  been absent
over two weeks; the longest time I was
ever away from my family. But leaving
them in the hands of God, I came here to
take care of a dear and only sister, severely
afflicted with brain fever. The disease
caused her right mind to leave her. Being
deeply affected, I prayed earnestly to my
Heavenly Father for wisdom; and was im-
pressed to call in the faithful sisters and
wash and anoint her in the name of Jesus,
and administer to her, which I did. And
with the faith and works of her kind friends
I am thankful to say she is recovering. We
give the honor to our Father in Heaven
	On my journey to this place I was per-
fectly enchanted with the beautiful moun-
tain scenery. I found the lofty cliffs of
rocks covered here and there with differ-
ent shades of moss; the hillsides with clus-
ters of trees and evergreens; the raging
stream pursuing its course unmolested; the
iron horse majestically winding its way
down the kanyon, and the day being pleas-
ant added much to the enjoyment of the
scene.
	After emerging from the kanyon, travel-
ing in a southern direction, passing farms
and villages, I came in sight of Porterville
situated in a beautiful little valley entirely
surrounded with hills and mountains; divi-
ded into two districts, one numbering
twenty-seven, and the other seventeen
families.
	They have a Relief Society, a Sunday
School and two day schools. Meetings are
held regularly. Saturday evening meet-
ings are occupied by the young and it is
truly gratifying to see them interested in
taking part in the Kingdom of God; in-
forming their minds so that they are ena-
bled to quote from the Bible and Book of
Mormon, with much freedom.
	No drinking or swearing; but the spirit of 
peace and union prevails I can truly say.
In the district I visited they have organ-
ized a branch of the United Order and de-
termined to adopt principles as fast as possi-
ble.
	I feel thankful that I have the privilege
of meeting with my sisters and partaking
of the good spirit which prevails in their
meetings. There is much to learn and by
meeting together and exchanging ideas
with each other, our minds will be enlight-
ened and our understandings strengthened
which will cause them to be more fruit-
ful.
	I love to read the minutes of the society
meetings, especially of those held in the
14th Ward, S. L. City.
							M. S. C.
	Porterville Morgan Co. U. T.
				Feb. 14th, 1874


NOTICE. 
TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF EACH
	BRANCH OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN SALT
	LAKE CITY, AND TO OUR BROTHERS AND
	SISTERS GENERALLY, WHO FAVOR THE
	UNITED ORDER:

	We solicit your united influence in sus-
taining home straw manufacture. Our ob-
ject in this is to assist in establishing home
industries in accordance with the require-
ments of the Priesthood; to contribute our
mite to the great enterprise of our becoming
a self-sustaining people. We want the sig-
nature of those who feel willing to sustain
this movement by purchasing our hats,
which, if we can get sufficient encourage- 
ment, we shall make for men and boys, wo-
men and girls at prices averaging from about
fifty cents—which will be suitable for men’s
every day wear in the field—to one dollar
and seventy-five cents for fine wear.
	We hope to supply this city in this de-
partment. 
	E.R. Snow,				E.S. BARNEY,
	BATHSHEBA SMITH,		A RUMELL,
	RACHEL GRANT,		E. RUMELL,
P. S.—If any of the sisters have braid on
hand, we wish to purchase. Second house
west of St. Mark's church, 13th Ward.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	AT VENICE in Italy there is now a wo-
man's paper published, called the "La Donna."
Woman's education is scarcely begun there,
yet we find a frail, delicate, young lady of
twenty-three years, editing a paper, for the
improvement of her sex. Risen from the
people and self-educated, she has alone un-
dertaken something enormous in Italy.
She has met with success, and her paper is
widely circulated all over Italy—and she
also has lady contributors, active in promo-
ting the growth of her idea. Her great
wish is to establish an Industrial school for
young women, who are poor and will not la-
bor, and are therefore driven to degrada-
tion; an aversion to work seems inherent in
the character of Italian girls.

	A LADY writing to the "Woman's Jour-
nal" asks what the women of America are
doing that they may be heard in the cele-
bration of the "centennial." She says, not
knowing that anything has been proposed
by them, she would suggest that a Peace
Congress of the women of all nations be
convened at Philadelphia in 1876.

	ON THE arrival of the train from Rich-
mond, Va., at Alexandria, Friday morning,
it was discovered that ex-Senator Nye who
when last seen occupied a section in the
sleeping car, was missing, although his coat,
vest, watch, hat and boots, were still in his
berth. He was on his way north from Jackson-
ville, Florida, with his daughter, Mrs. Wal-
ler of New York, and servants, and retired
the previous evening in his usual health.
It was supposed he got up in the night in a
dazed condition and walked off or fell off
the cars while in motion. He was after-
wards found in the streets of Richmond,
Va., in nearly a nude condition.—Tran-
script.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			OLD LETTERS.
Those letters! faded, worn and pale,
	  But yet how dear, how cherished still,
For in their folds, full many a tale
	  Of by-gone years, their pages fill,
Which bring to life, as once again
	  We read them o'er, mem'ry's dull pain.
They bring back youth, its love, its hope,
	  The visions of the shadowy past,
And as we trace life's widened scope
	  And backward glances hurrying cast,
We gather to our hearts as then,
	  The treasures that to us remain.
In living characters enshrined,
	  Feelings and thoughts are here portrayed,
Which speak the impress of the mind,
	  By friendship, or affection swayed,
True intuition of the time,
	  When we, and they, were in our prime.
We live again in fancy's maze,
	  Our vanished life, its sorrow, joy,
We scan it o'er with wiser phase
	  And all our faculties employ, 
Recalling friends and scenes of yore,
	  Garnered away in mem'ry's store.
Ah! heeded we the mute appeal,
	  Or thought of sympathy a need,
'Tis well! when anguish we may feel,
	  In vain ourselves, we shall not plead
For that true friendship which bestows,
	  An earnest care for other's woes.
Preserve these sacred treasures then,
	  A living flame of trust and truth,
In after years they bring again,
	  The rgace and sweetness of our youth;
Such messengers, no more to me,
	  Come freighted o'er so tenderly.
Ah! while we linger o'er each word,
	  To shapes of symmetry they're grown;
In fancy are those voices heard,
	  Each by a subtle influence known;
And now as then, the hours beguile,
	  With silent music, as erstwhile.
March 9, 1875. 
								B. B.
							E. D. Wells.


HUMANIT IN WAR.

	It is related of Henry IV, the first French
King of the house of Bourbon, that while
besieging Paris, at that time held against
him by the Catholic League, he was urgent-
ly advised to take the city by assault before
the troops daily expected from the King of
Spain could arrive to succor the leaguers.
He knew that by a determined assault he
could carry the works before him, but he
protested against it on the principal of hu-
manity.
	"I will not," said he; "expose the capital
of my country to the miseries and horrors
which must follow such an event. I will
show to my people that I am their father;
and I will follow the example of the true
mother who presented herself before Solo-
mon. I will not gain the prize through the
slaughter of innocent persons."
	In time Henry reduced the city with the
loss of but few lives. In a subsequent con-
versation upon the subject of the number
slain, he exclaimed, "If it were in my pow-
er, I would give anything but my kingly
honor to redeem those citizens, and to have
the satisfaction of informing posterity that
I had subdued Paris without spilling a drop
of blood."
	We have another instance of humanity in
the war of 1796 between France and Austria.
It is related of the Archduke Charles that
when hastening from Bohemia to take com-
mand of the Austrian army, he met, near
the scene of a late action, a large number of
wounded soldiers, both French and Austrian,
who, in the haste of retreat and pursuit, had
been abandoned where they had fallen. The
only horses at hand which could possibly be
used in removing these helpless sufferers
were attached to the artillery.


"Let the cannon be left behind," said the
human prince, "and let these poor fellows
be saved." And when one of his generals
remonstrated, he added, "No, no; let it be
as I have ordered. The life of one brave
man is better worth preserving than fifty
pieces of ordnance."
	When the French general, Moreau, into
whose hands the cannon thus abandoned
had fallen, learned the motive which had
prompted the Archduke to make the sacri-
fice, he ordered the whole to be restored,
observing that he should be unworthy of be-
ing the opponent of his imperial highness
if he took advantage of so noble an act of
humanity.


[Column 1]
			WRITING LETTERS.

	FROM THE HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

	"The art of writing is one of the
greatest blessings we enjoy. To cultivate
it is our duty, and to use it is our privilege.
By these means the thoughts of the heart
can act without the body, and the mind can
speak without the head, while thousands of
mile apart, and for ages after the flesh has
mouldered back to its mother dust. Beloved
reader, have you ever reflected on this sim-
ple, this useful, this heavenly blessing? It
is one of the best gifts of God to man, and
it is the privilege of man to enjoy it. By
writing, the word of the Lord has been
handed to the inhabitants of the earth, from
generation to generation. By writing, the
inventions and knowledge of men have been
received, age after age, for the benefit of
the world. By writing, the transactions of
life, like the skies over the ocean, are spread
out upon the current of time, for the eyes of
the rising multitudes to look upon. And
while we are thus summing up some of the
blessings and enjoyments which result from
this noble art, let us not forget to view a few
of the curses and mischiefs which follow an
abuse of this high privilege. While we be-
hold what a great matter a little fire kindles,
let us not stand mute. Let us not forget to
set a better example, when we see the
slanderer dip his raven's quill in gall, to
blot the fair fame of some innocent per-
son. Let us weep, for so will the heaven's
do, when the great men of the earth write
their glory in the tears of the fatherless
and the widow. Let us mourn while this
world's vanity is written for deception, in
letters of gold. But enough, for the wick-
ed are writing their own death warrant, and
the hail of the Lord shall sweep away the
refuge of lies. We, as the disciples of the
blessed Jesus, are bound by every consider-
ation that makes religion a blessing to the
inhabitants of the earth, while we see this
exalted privilege abused, to set a more no-
ble example. To do our business in a more
sacred way, and, as servants of the Lord,
that would be approved in all things, hide
no fault of our own, nor cover any imper-
fection in others; neither offend, lest we
bring a reproach upon the great cause of
our holy Father.
	"It is pleasing to God to see men use
the blessings which He gave them, and not
abuse them. For this reason, if the Saints
abide in the faith wherewith they have
been called, the earth shall yield her in-
crease, and the blessings of heaven shall at-
tend them, and the Lord will turn to them
a pure language, and the glory of God will
again be among the righteous on earth. All
things are for men, not men for all things.
Beloved brethren, before we can teach the
world how to do right, we must be able to
do so ourselves. Therefore, in the love of

[Column 2]
Him who is altogether lovely, whose yoke
is easy and whose burden is light, who
spake as man never spake, let us offer a few
ideas on this subject, for the consideration
of such as mean to love their neighbors as
themselves, for the sake of righteousness
and eternal life.
	"1. Never write a letter to a friend or foe,
unless you have business which cannot be
done as well in some other way; or, unless
you have news to communicate, that is
worth time or money. In this way you
will increase confidence, and save postage.
	"2. Never write any thing to a friend or
foe, that you are afraid to read to a friend or
foe, for letters from a distance, especially
one or two thousand miles, are sought for
with great anxiety; and, as no one is a
judge of men and things, you are liable to
misrepresent yourself, your country, your
friends, and your enemies, and put in the
mouth of the honest, as well as the dishon-
est, a lie, which truth, in her gradual but
virtuous way, may not contradict till your
head is under the silent clods of the val-
ley.
	"3. Never write anything but truth, for
truth is heavenly, and like the sun is al-
ways bright, and proves itself without log-
ic, without reasons, without witnesses, and
never fails. Truth is of the Lord and will
prevail.
	"4. Never reprove a friend or foe for
faults in a letter, except by revelation; for in
the first place, your private intentions, be
they ever so good, are liable to become pub-
lic, because all letters may be broken open,
and your opinion only on one side of the
question can be scattered to the four winds;
and he to whom you meant good, receives
evil; and you are not benefited. Again,
we can hardly find language, written or
spoken on earth, at this time, that will con-
vey the true meaning of the heart to the
understanding of another; and you are lia-
ble to be misunderstood, and to give un-
pleasant feelings; and you merely, to use a
simile, bleed an old sore, by probing it for
proud flesh, when it only wanted a little oil
from the hand of the good Samaritan, in
person, to heal it. No matter how pure
your intentions may be; no matter how high
your standing is, you cannot touch man's
heart when absent as when present. Truly,
you do not cast your pearls before swine,
but you throw your gold before man, and
he robs you for your folly. Instead of re-
proof give good advice; and when face to,
face rebuke a wise man, and he will love
you; or do so to your friend, that, should
he become your enemy, he cannot reproach
you: thus you may live, not only unspotted,
but unsuspected.
	"5. Never write what you would be
ashamed to have printed; or what might of-
fend the chastest ear, or hurt the softest
heart. If you write what you are ashamed
to have printed, you are partial: if you
write what would offend virtue, you have
not the Spirit of the Lord; and if you write
what would wound the weak-hearted; you
are not feeding the Lord's lambs, and thus
you may know that you are not doing to
others what you would expect others to do
to you. The only rule we would give to
regulate writing letters it this:—Write what
you are willing should be published in this
world, and in the world to come. And would
to God, that not only the disciples of Christ,
but the whole world, were willing to follow
this rule. Then the commandments would
be kept, and no one would write a word
against the Lord his God. No one would write
a word against his father or mother. No one
would write a word against his neighbor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


No one would write a word against the crea-
tures of God. No one would need write a
word against any thing but sin; and then
the world would be worth living in, for
there would be none to offend."


[Column 1]
	GIRLS AND BOYS AT SCHOOL.

	Some years ago we had supervision of a 
school for young men and women. The
desks were what is called double, each one
accomodating two persons.  We placed a 
young man and a young woman at each.
Permission was given the pupils to render
such assistance to their desk-mates as they
thought profitable, keeping the noise with-
in bounds.  But we did not often check the 
hum and buzz; for as these young people
were being trained for life, and as in actual
life there is a hundred times as much noise
as silence, we should have hardly felt at liber-
ty to train their faculties in silence for use in
noise. We only said don't be too noisy.
But this is incidental.  What we wished to
bring before you is the striking influence of
this system upon the love passion.
	When Thomas and Lucy first sat down to-
gether, they looked and acted just as a 
young man and a young woman are likely
to do when they first meet.  We need not
describe it.  You have seen how they look
and act.  This soon began to wear off, and
in a month the young people acted toward
each other like brother and sister.  All that
peculiar expression and manner which you
often see among lovers, and which you re-
cognize at a distance of three blocks, soon
disappeared.  With the new arrangement
in our school there was more or less of this
all through the room; but, as already stated,
it soon gave place to a social atmosphere
which seemed identical with that of a home
among brothers and sisters.  Still farther,
they were permitted to exchange partners
at pleasure on the first Monday of each
month.  This renewed the lovers' exhibi-
tion a little at first, but after three months
even this change of companions evoked no
visible disturbances of the school work.
But what good came of it?  It is just that
question we wish to answer.
	From the day this system was introduced
the school required no government.  It was
like a company of ladies and gentlemen in
a drawing-room.  There was no necessity
for rules in the one case more than in the
other. The average progress in our studies
was strikingly enhanced. Stupid, coarse
fellows, who in company of men alone would
chew, and growl, and loaf, became bright,
gentlemanly and studious; and girls of light,
frivolous composition became earnest.  The
average progress was greatly increased.  The 
young men came to regard women not as
charming creatures to be toyed with and to
be talked down to, but as brave, hard work-
ing companions, competitors and equals.
They ceased to think of their bodies, and
thought only of the quality of their minds.
The young women no longer looked up to
the young men as chivalrous heroes, seek-
ing opportunity to die for their lady-love,
but as fair, honest, honorable companions,
whom it was a pleasure to know, and some-
times to conquer.  In a single year they
came to occupy the same attitude towards
men with those girls who have been reared
in a large family of boys, and who are really
long in the choice of husbands.  The girls
who are educated in a separate school are
like the only child, who is almost sure, if
she has been brought up in seclusion, to fall
into some trap. The young men, after a
year in such a school companionship, are like

[Column 2]
the young man with half-a-dozen sisters,
who is sure to be wise in the selection of a 
wife.
	In its bearing upon the most important
interests of our earthly life, there is no part
of our education so vital as an early, large,
intimate acquaintance with many persons of 
the opposite sex.  What probability is there
that a young woman, an only child, brought
up in seclusion, educated in a convent or
other separate school and who then, having
finished her education, sets up at home un-
der the watchful eye of her mother for a 
husband—what probability is there that she
will be wise in her relations with men? With
no occupation save that of catching a beau,
with imagination and emotions left to wan-
der, is she likely to see through the sham
smiles and vows of an imposter.
	[It was unfortunate, in view of the ex-
periments being tried, that Dr. Lewis' school
should have been destroyed by fire ere the
fruits of his system could have been more
plainly seen.  But this was not the first nor
only experiment of the kind.  Ever since
boys and girls were born in the same family
they have grown up, and, to a great extent,
necessarily have been educated and asso-
ciated together, save when separated, as in
nunneries and certain schools.  We can see
no good reason why they should ever be
separated. Neither minds nor morals are 
improved thereby.]—Phrenological Journal.


A WOMAN NATURALIST.

	Mrs. Maxwell, a resident of Boulder, Col-
orado, is a very remarkable woman, for by
her own personal efforts she has collected
specimens of natural—history, mineralogy,
and curiosities that would do credit to any
learned professor.  She has a great variety
of animals and birds, most of which she has
shot and afterwards skinned and stuffed. All
the animals of the Rocky Mountains, black
and grizzly bears, lynxes, mountain lions,
antelope, deer, elk, Rocky Mountain sheep,
prairie dogs, squirrels, rabbits, beavers; all
sorts of birds, large and small, perched upon
trees, and all arranged with great taste and
picturesque effect. Her mineralogical speci-
mens are very fine and she has a rare col-
lection of foreign curiosities; a miniature
pagoda from China, Japanese armor, human
tooth necklace from the cannibal islands, seal
skin shoes, and gloves from the far North,
Icelandic weapons, and a thousand things
one would like to study for hours. She has
also an immense rattlesnake with its young,
hideous enough in its glass case, and con-
stantly wriggling its horrible body. I con-
sider this lady collector a marvel; without
any especial training or education she has
gradually taken up this line of business, and
has made it a complete success. Her mod-
esty equals her industry and skill, and her
museum deserves a place in a large city.—
Ex.


THE TEN COMMANDMENTS.

	The Rev. Dr. R. W. Dale, and English
preacher of some note, has recently printed
a series of discourses on the ten command-
ments, which have excited considerable at-
tention from the London press. Discourses
on the commandments very commonly are
full of strained application, while the preach-
er attempts to make his text appropriate to
modern circumstances, but there is nothing
of the kind here.
		"THOU SHALT NOT STEAL."
	Here is an application for the eighth com-
mandment:


﻿“ If a workman, who is paid to work ten
hours, takes advantage of the absence of the
master, or foreman, to smoke a pipe and
read a newspaper for one hour out of ten, he
steals one-tenth of his day's wages. He
does the very thing that a shopkeeper would
do who gave him fourteen ounces of butter
or sugar instead of a pound, or nine yards
of calico when the bill charged ten. An as-
sistant in a shop who, instead of caring for
his master's interests as if they were his
own, puts no heart into his work, exercises
no ingenuity, treats customers carelessly in-
stead of courteously, and so diminishes the
chances of their coming again, gets his sal-
ary on false pretences, does not give the
kind of service which he knows his employ-
er expects, and which he would expect if
he were an employer himself. He cannot
but know that his services are worth but
half what they would be if he did his best.
Instead of earning the £40 a year for which
he is engaged, he does not earn more than £15
or £20, and he practically steals the rest." 
	A man who knows how to drive home
blows like that, and is not afraid to do it, is
to be a power in the community.


For the EXPONENT.
		RETRENCHMENT.

	Retrenchment is a subject upon which so
much might be said, that I feel it quite a 
task to write, or speak upon it; but as Lat-
ter-day Saints we should never allow our-
selves to say we cannot do what is required
of us.
	I think Retrenchment as we understand
it is one of the greatest and most glorious
principles there is, and will do us as much
good if carried out rightly, as any principle
we  embraced.  It includes not only
dress, but everything that will make us
wise, useful and happy while in this life.
Through it, we are taught to live our reli-
gion, to find out the will of God concerning
us, to bring ourselves into subjection to His
will, and to do what He requires of us; at-
tend to our prayers, our meetings, our sev-
eral duties at home and elsewhere.
	It is surprising to see the young ladies
get up and bear their testimony to the things
of God, since the organization of these so-
cieties. And I believe if we continue as
we have begun, it will be beyond our com-
prehension to realize the good we may ac-
complish.  Great responsibilities rest upon
us both old and young, as daughters of Zion,
and I feel that Retrenchment is the very
thing needed.
				GEORGINA CUTHBERT.
	1st Ward, S, L. City, March 16, 1875.


﻿A NEW point in American meteorology is
sought to be established by Mr.  L. Blodget,
in a paper contained in the published pro-
ceedings of the American Philosophical So-
ciety. He states facts going to show that
the greater number of winds which prevail
in the United States in cold weather are
winds that descend, and that they derive
their continued force from this descent. It
has been observed that the extremes of cold
arc often not propagated along the surface
of the country, but seem to originate where
they occur, as though having fallen from the
atmosphere above. This is particularly the
case in the northwest. Mr. Blodget explains
such descents of heavy cold air by the sup-
position that the volume of air in the given
locality being contracted by the fall of rain
or snow leaves a vaccum which is thus filled
up, the descending wind bringing a lower
temperature with it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L.GREENE RICHARDS, Editor
	CORNELIA M. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1875


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			LOCAL.
	New postmasters have been appointed at
Kaysville, Davis County, Beaver city, Bea-
ver county and Gunnison Sanpete county
......Several heavy snowslides occurred, in
Little Cottonwood kanyon on Saturday and
Sunday the 20th and 21st ult. but fortu-
nately, so far as known, no lives were lost
in consequence......Governor Axtell lectured
to an animated audience in this city, on the
evening of the 21st ult.  His subject was
the "Iron Bedstead," which he handled in
a highly interesting manner......The Lin-
gards have just filled a successful engage-
ment at the Theatre......Thomas Ricks, who
was lately on trial in the third district court
for alleged murder, has been honorably ac-
quitted.
			LITERARY.
	W. G. Willis has dramatized Kingsley's 
Hypatia......A five-act drama for the French
Theatre in Berlin is to be written by Alex-
andre Dumas......Walter Scott's Guy Man-
nering has been published by the Peterson
Brothers, New York......Professor John
Morgan of Oberlin, has three accomplished
daughters, who are engaged in a family
school at Munich, Bavaria, where they in-
struct young ladies in art, language and gen-
eral culture......Miss Closson, a young lady
who has spent six years in Western Turkey,
is giving lectures in the East, in which she
is said to offer very interesting accounts of
the Turkish people.
			PERSONAL
	The widow of Captain Hall, the arctic ex-
plorer, is living in Cincinnati, and is said to
be in want......Vice President Wilson is
taking a tour through the Southern States
......Bayard Taylor will soon commence a
course of lectures at Cornell University, in
which he will give descriptive sketches of
the lives of Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Heine,
and their fellow authors in Germany since
1750......Lieut. Commander Bowman H.
McCalla, of the Navy was recently married
to Lillie, daughter of Gen. Horace Binney
Sargent.
			FOREIGN.
	A gale on the Irish and British coasts
was lately the occasion of great damage to
shipping and the loss of several lives......
The Emperor of Austria and King Victor
Emanuel will meet at Venice some time
this month......Lola, a Spanish steamer has
been seized for smuggling and sold at Vera
Cruz......A shock of earthquake was re-
cently felt at Minatitlan and Orazava, Mexi-
co......The Emperor of Austria is reported
to have accepted the resignation of Baron
Sanborn, Minister-at-Washington.
			POLITICAL.
The Republican party in New Hampshire,
was victorious at a recent election......The 
Earlville (Ill.) "Transcript," says the Legis-
lature has been a down right disgrace to
that State. Judging from accounts, the
same might truthfully be said of the Leg-
islature of several other States......Johnson
and Booth, United States Senators, emphat-
ically refuse to go into caucus with either
party......The Pacific Railroad bill, though
much was done to secure its passage, met
with defeat in the House of Representa-
tives......The extra session of the Senate
expired March 24th.
			GENERAL.
	The first child born of Japanese parents in
this country is a daughter to the  wife of
the Japanese Minister at Washington......

[Column 2]
The Court House at Kingston, Ont., was
burned on the 24th ult., loss $100,000......A
terrible tornado recently occurred in Geor-
gia, doing great damage and causing consid-
erable loss of life......Great dearth of water
is reported at Lancaster, Pennsylvania......A
member of the Illinois Legislature wants a
bill passed to make it a penal offence for one
person to treat another to any intoxicating
drink.


A BRIGHT-EYED boy of four years was
saying his prayers the other night to his
mother, and with his hands folded and eyes
closed, he sweetly said:
	"Now I lay me down to sleep,
	I pray the Lord my soul to keep:
	If I should die before I wake,
	I pray the Lord my soul to take.
	God bless papa, mamma and—"
	He stopped all at once, opened his eyes
and exclaimed:
	"Mother, mother, what shall I say if I
have been a bad boy?"
	"You should not stop to ask questions, my
son, while you are saying your prayers," re-
plied his mother.
	"But, mother, I have been bad; what
shall I say?"
	"Ask God to forgive you; but you should
say your prayers all through when you be-
gin without stopping."
	His question answered, he reverently
folded his hands, and closing his eyes, con-
tinued: 
	"And will God forgive me for killing a 
hop toad with a big stick, and throwing it
down a big hole? Amen!"
	Children of a larger growth will do well
to copy.


[Column 1]
		TALK NUMBER ONE.
	TO EVERY BRANCH OF THE RELIEF
	MY BELOVED SISTERS:—God has called us to
an important amd highly responsible position;
and, let me ask, for what purpose? Is it not
that we may efficiently assist in the establish-
ing and building up of His kingdom?
	The kingdom of God can never be built up
until it has been established, and it will never
be firmly established until it is self-sustaining.
Pres. Young, and, in connexion with him, a
portion of the Priesthood, have been, for years,
laboring in this direction. He has led out, and
set the example, in nearly, if not every depart-
ment of home-industry, now in successful oper-
ation in Zion. It is true, much has been ac-
complished; and yet, how very much remains
to be done before we shall become independent?
How much before we shall cease to be a promi-
nent source of profit to our enemies? How
much, before, instead of constant heavy out-
[Column 2]
lays, we shall realize not only what we shall
require for home supplies, but an income from
each department of industry, with which to
aid in building temples, gathering the poor,
and in beautifying Zion.
	Another important question—what has wo-
man to do in bringing about these grand re-
sults?
	The exaltation of the human family could
not be effected without the aid of woman. Her
assistance is needed in every department of the
great work of salvation, for the living and the
dead. In those departments where her pres-
ence and her labors are not required, her influ-
euce, through her faith and prayers, and her
words of encouragement may be productive of
many good results. There is nothing that ap-
pertains to the welfare of Zion, in which the
interests of man and of woman are not equal,
and in which their efforts should not be mu-
tual.
	My Sisters, when we received the fulness of
the Everlasting Gospel, and went into the wa-
ters of baptism, we became, symbolically at
least, dead to the world, having "put on
Christ." We obeyed the call "Come out of her
(Babylon), my people, that ye partake not of
her sins, and receive not of her plagues"—
gathered to the places appointed—for what pur-
pose? Not to build ourselves up after the man-
ner of the Gentiles, by assimilating ouirselves
into their likeness, but we gathered that we
might become "a peculiar people—zealous of
good works," and build up the Zion of God,
and His kingdom, the government of which
will give protection to the honest in heart from
good of all creeds, when the "overflowing
scourge shall sweep the earth as with the be-
som of destruction."
	I humbly call on my sisters to reflect, and to
reflect seriously. There must be a stop to our
waste of energies, and waste of substance by
useless expenditures and, especially, on super-
fluities. Let us all unite our influence and our
labors, to check the ebbing tide of temporal
prosperity: and to those who are asleep, and
apparently indifferent to the interests of Zion,
I almost feel to apply the words of an ancient
prophet, "Woe to the women that are at ease
in Zion." Let us assist with all the energies of
our souls, in breaking the chains with which
we, as a people, are bound; for just as long as
we are in debt to, or dependent on our enemies
for the necessaries and comorts of life, we are
virtually their slaves.
	We have no interests outside the kingdom
of God, and, as individuals, how much so ever
we may accumulate of this world's goods, we
are only prosperous in proportion as Zion pros-
pers.
	After having said so much, I come to the
point, and make an appeal to my sisters of the
Relief Society, (which should include all virtu-
ous Latter-day Saint women) to call your men-
tal and physical powers into action and lead
out in establishing Home Industries. This is
an important mission which now devolves on
us. Ask wisdom of God—counsel together and
deliberately decide what branch or branches of
businesses will be most likely to succeed in your
particular Ward or Settlement, and promptly
adopt measures for its promotion.
	Pres. Young recommends silk culture as one
very profitable branch for the sisters, and offers,
free of charge, all the cuttings they wish, from
the Mulberry orchard on his farm, south of the
city; with this requisition: that they shall be
cut by a man who understands the business.
They should be set as soon as the frost is out
of the ground, or before the leaves start. In
two years from setting, they will support the
worms.


If the Society cannot, "either for love or
money," obtain ground for the purpose, it
would be well for individuals to set cuttings
around their home lots, where they will serve
the double purpose of shade trees and of feed-
ing silkworms. I have just heard of a sister in
one of our Southern settlements, who has
manufactured from her own raised silk, several
choice articles, one of which is a beautiful net-
ted shawl one yard and a quarter in size, and
nearly embroidered.
	In Ogden, the Relief Society under the Presi-
dency of Sister J. S. Richards, has set an ex-
ample worthy of imitation, in the line of Straw
Manufacture. Forty young ladies and girls
have been trained, during the past winter, to
braid, and are now being taught in the other
branches, sewing, &c. An energetic move-
ment is being made in the same direction, in
this city, by which we intend furnishing straw-
work to supply the city. Also, one Society of
young ladies is starting the business of knit-
ting woolen yarn into ladies' sacques, jackets,
shawls, baby-shoes, mits, &c. &c. We have a
competent teacher—One who followed this
branch of industry in England. Even this,
although it may seem a small institution, will
greatly aid in our becoming self-sustaining, by
preventing an outlay of thousands of dollars,
annually sent abroad for these articles; and,
under wise management, will become a lucra-
tive business.
						ELIZA R. SNOW.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VENGEANCE IS THE LORD'S.
	The following incidents are here chronicled,
not as items of news, but as things worthy of
notice!
	Three weeks ago to-day, on the afternoon of
Thursday, March 11th, thousands of the in-
habitants of Utah, young and old of both sex-
es, were rendered justly indignant over the
case of President Brigham Young's being sen-
tenced to prison by Chief-Justice J. B. McKean.
His honor taking occasion to misconstrue a de-
lay on the part of President Young to comply
with an unjust and senseless order—which de-
lay was made to test the question of right of
appeal—as contempt of Court, sentenced him
to pay a fine of $25, and to be imprisoned for
twenty-four hours.
	Contempt of Court! Had it been for feelings
of contempt for the manner in which the Chief
Justice had conducted his public affairs, that 
this insult was offered, every man and woman
of good judgment and pure sentiments, who
has been acquainted with his official career in
this Territory, might as justly have been com-
mitted to fine and imprisonment.
	However, the sentence was passed. Presi-
dent Young was taken to the penitentiary, and
a whole people exasperated by the indignity
offered. 
	But whatever might have been felt, however
great the desire of many must have been to
take some action by way of avenging the out-
rage, nothing was done. There was nothing
that could be done—allowing wisdom to dic-
tate—by any individual in Utah.
	Upwards of a thousand women took the op-
portunity afforded for representing the respect
and reverence in which President Young is
held by this people, by signing a petition asking
for his release, which was presented to Gover-
nor Axtell. The Govenor was powerless to
act in the matter, but the prompt action taken
by the ladies was nevertheless commendable.
	In less than a week from the day on which
the Judge ordered President Young to prison,


he was himself removed from office.  Possibly
the two circumstances have no real connection,
as other incidents of McKean's unwise course
of procedure was reported at Washington pre-
vious to his removal, by lawyer Geo. E. Whit-
ney, with whom he had had hard words.
	But whatever the cause of his removal, it
brought the same satisfactory result. And in
it, to those who seek for understanding, an oft
told lesson is repeated.


GOOD VERSUS EVIL.

	All that which tends to good or to develop-
ing goodness is necessarily slow in its growth,
for it is up-hill work; and it requires toil and
care in the ascent. Caution is one of the ele-
ments essential to cultivate, to help us in
climbing.  All that which pertains to goodness
is truly elevating; therefore the more goodness
we possess the higher elevation of character we
attain. And all this is only accomplished
gradually because climbing is always slow. On
the contrary, evil is swift because its tendency
is downward; therefore the work is easy and
quickly accomplished.  No wonder those who
are engaged in it do so much in such short spa-
ces of time; their progress is nothing wonder-
ful, because it is all on a descending scale. And
often those who are on the up-hill-route slip
backward for want of a little caution. Or per-
haps get impatient, and want their work done
in a hurry, and thus they lose more in a very
short space of time than they have been able
to gain in days of real labor. I hope we are all
traveling upward in the scale of human pro-
gression, striving for advancement, for a per-
manent good to be attained. Of course it will
be all up-hill work and we must not tread too
lightly or carelessly, but plant our feet firmly,
and measure the ground carefully.  There are
sure to be thorns in our path, and every varie-
ty of hindrances and difficulties; and we shall
meet those who are journeying downward, who
will seek to discourage us, but we must not
heed them. Our path is upward, and all our
energies must be concentrated for good, which
reaches higher and higher until at last we
come into the presence of Him who is the
fountain-head of all intelligence, of all good-
ness.							B. B.
	March 17, 1875.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE been requested to announce that
on and after Friday, April 2nd, mulberry out-
tings can be obtained at Mrs. Zina H. Young's
residence, 13th Ward.  They will be prepared
for setting out, and will be placed in the ground
for preservation until called for. Of course the
earlier they are removed the safer and better
for them. The sisters who are desirous of pro-
curing a supply, are therefore requested to call
as early as possible.
	GOVERNOR AXTELL issued a proclamation,
March 22nd, assigning Associate-Justice Emer-
son to the Third Judicial district, the removal
of Chief-Justice McKean having left the bench
of this district vacant until the arrival of 
Chief-Justice Lowe.
	CAPTAIN SILVA, successor to Major Overton,
as receiver at the Land Office in this city, re-
cently arrived.
	THE FOURTH term of the 20th Ward Semina-
ry commenced Monday, March 22nd. Professor
Karl G. Maeser, Principal. The Professor has
been delivering lectures on highly interesting


subjects, in several of the different Wards late-
ly, which have drawn full houses and been par-
ticularly instructive and entertaining.
	ELDER ORSON Pratt preached to a crowded
congregation in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, March 21st. His subject was the
Priesthood.		
	THE GOOD work of grading is progressing on
South Temple Street, east of the State Road.
	THE POSITION of Penitentiary warden in this
city has been accepted by Mr. John Hunt, Mr.
A. G. Paddock having sometime since resigned.
	AMONG THE deaths of recent occurrence are
those of Sister Openshaw, who fell dead with-
out a moment's warning, in this city on the
24th ult.; and the well-known father Kay of
Kaysville, who quietly departed on the morn-
ing of the 25th. Both were in good standing in
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, of which they were old members.
	MR. J. H. Beatty has been appointed to the
office of register in bankruptcy for this judicial
district.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	REMEDY FOR CROUP.—When croup makes
its appearance, which may be known by a
ringing cough, wrap the child in warm
flannel and put its feet in warm water; then
rub the breast and bottoms of the feet and
palms of the hands with oil. If the child
breathes hard, or is struggling for breath,
take one heaping teaspoonful of pulverized
alum, with two or three of honey (molasses
or sugar will do), and a little warm water
to make it thin enough for a child to swal-
low readily. When the patient is very bad,
give one teaspoonful of the mixture every
ten minutes, until he vomits. This dose is
intended for a child two years old. The
child should also take a tablespoonful of
swcet oil. (Chicken oil will answer the pur-
pose if the former is not at hand.)
	The mixture of alum and honey cuts the
phlegm loose and causes it to be thrown up.
Watch the child closely. Keep it warm.
See that the bowels are free, and do not al-
low it to breathe any cold air until it is well.
For very young children, this dose should be
weakened.
	PNEUMONIA AND PLEURISY.—In case a
person is attacked by pneumonia or pleurisy,
the first thing done should be to bathe the
feet in a hot water-and-mustard bath, tak-
ing light gruel or flaxseed tea, and getting
into a warm bed. The perspiration thus
caused is excellent. Sage tea may also be
taken. A convenient and common remedy
for the difficult breathing, and one which
is, or ought to be, at hand in every well-or-
dered hoursehold, is sweet spirits of niter,
taken in doses of half a teaspoonful every
hour till the breathing is relieved.
	FOR DIPTHERIA.—Dr. Rovillout states
that lemon juice, used as a gargle, is an effi-
cacious specific against diptheria and simi-
lar throat troubles. He has successfully
employed it thus for over eighteen years.
	CURE FOR FROZEN FEET.— I have tried
almost everything that could be mentioned,
but found nothing equal to a mixture of
turpentine and camphor gum.—R. N. Y.


THE most touching case of filial devotion
that has recently come to our notice is that
of a Milford young man, aged twenty, who
abandoned the idea of raising a moustache
at the advice of his mother.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


For the EXPONENT.
			SYMPATHY.

	Sympathy!—a holy feeling
		Sent us from the realms above;
	Soothing sorrow by revealing
		Fragments of a heaven-born love!

	Such a love as angels witness,
		Such a love as angels feel,
	Possessing by its holy fitness
		Power the wounds of grief to heal,

	When the heart is bow'd in sorrow,
		When the spirit's bent with grief,
	When we feel that NO TO-MORROW
		Has the power to bring relief;

	Then the sympathetic hand
		Sweetly pours the "oil and wine,"
	And I ever understand
		Such, to be a law divine

	Human nature—undiluted,
		Is  a deep pellucid stream,
	Full and flowing, unpolluted
		By the world's deceptive dream;

	Fully rich and glorious beauties,
		Beauties that are half divine,
	Fitting us for holy duties,
		Through the daily round of time.
						HANNAH T. KING.
SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 1875.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Pumpkin pie without eggs may be made in this
way; select a pumpkin which has a deep, rich col-
or, and firm, close texture. Stew and sift in the or-
dinary manner, and add as much boiling milk as
will make it about one third thicker than for com-
mon pumpkin pie. Sweeten with equal quantities
of sugar and molasses, and bake about an hour in
a hot oven.
	Squash Pie.—This is even superior to pumpkin,
as is possesses a sweeter, richer flavor, and is far
preferable. It is made in precisely the same man-
ner as pumpkin pie.
	Sweet Potatoe Pie.—Boil and sift through a
colander, nice, ripe sweet potatoes, add boiling
milk, and make the same as pumpkin pie.
	Sweet Apple Pie.—Pare molton sweet apples,
 grate them upon a grater. A very large gra-
ter is necessary for this purpose. Then proceed as
for pumpkin pie.—"Eating for strength."
	Gray marble hearths can be rubbed with linseed
oil, and no spots will show.
	A solution of chloride of iron will remove nitrate
of silver stains from the hands.
	Butter will remove tar spots. Soap and water
will afterwards take out the grease stain.
	Kerosene and powdered lime, whiting, or wood
ashes will scour tins with the least labor.
	Shellac is the best sement for jet articles.
Smoking the joint renders it black to match.
	Unslackened lime is excellent for cleaning small
steel articles, such as jewelry, buckles, and the
like.
	To prevent moths in carpets, wash the floor be-
fore laying them with the spirits of turpentine or
benzine.
	Gold bronze for furniture is a mixture of copal
varnish mixed with gold-colored bronze powder.
The last is a bisulphate of tin.
	A teaspoonful of powdered borax dissolved in
a quart of tepid water is good for cleaning old
black dresses of silk, cashmere, or alpaca.
	Sprigs of wintergreen or ground ivy will drive
away red ants, branches of wormwood will serve
the same purpose for black ants.
	Straw matting should be washed with a cloth
dampened in salt water. Indian meal sprinkled
over it and thoroughly swept out will also cleanse
it finely.

[Column 2]
	Frosted glass, useful for screens, etc., is made
by laying the sheets horizontally and covering them
with a strong solution of sulphate of zinc. The
salt crystalizes on drying.
	Spots can be taken out of marble with finely
powdered pumicestone mixed with verjuice. Cov-
er the spots and allow the stuff to remain for
twelve hours; then rub clean, dry and rinse.
	Flaxseed and tallow are used in Germany as a
stuffing for cushions. One part of tallow to ten
parts of flaxseed are employed, the mobility of the
greased seed rendering the cushion very soft and
pliable.
	Two ounces of common tobacco boiled in a gal-
lon of water is used by the Chatham Street dealers
for renovating old clothes. The stuff is rubbed on
with a stiff brush. The goods are nicely cleaned,
and strange to add no tobacco smell remains. 
	An oaken color can be given to new pine floors
and tables by washing them in a solution of cop-
peras dissolved in strong lye; a pound of the for-
mer to a gallon of the latter. When dry, this
should be oiled; and it will look well for a year or
two; then renew the oiling.
	In washing windows, a narrow-shaped wooden
knife sharply pointed, will take out the dust that
hardens in the corners of the sash. Dry whiting
will polish the glass, which should first be washed
with weak black tea mixed with a little alcohol.
Save the tea leaves for the purpose.—R. N. Y.


R. S. REPORTS
MINUTES OF A MEETING, HELD BY THE
	YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIA-
	TION, OF THE 11TH WARD, AT THE RESI-
	DENCE OF MRS. MARY A. FREEZE, JAN.
	11TH, 1875.

	Meeting opened by singing, "Let Zion in
her beauty rise;" Prayer by Bro. Charles
Edwards; singing, "For the strength of the
hills we bless Thee;" minutes of the pre-
vious meeting were read and accepted. Es-
say by Counselor Miss Lelia Tuckett. Pres.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze read the 12th chapter
of Paul's Epistle to the Romans, and said: I
have invited Bro. Edwards to visit our
meeting and to see the spirit we possess here.
Many do not understand the object of our
association. It is to do good, and prepare
ourselves to help build up the kingdom of
God. We are willing to stand all searching
and investigation for we are striving to do
right; I know a humble spirit is pleasing to
our Heavenly Father; there is no such thin
as a proud saint. Sister Eliza Snow says
she has wept before the Lord for the youth
of this people. It is necessary that they
know for themselves that God has spoken
from the heavens, and restored the everlast-
ing gospel. Many have received this testi-
mony through retrenchment. Let us arouse
ourselves and endeavor to be active mem-
bers in the kingdom of God, and gain a
name worthy of remembrance. If we rise
and speak in honor of our Savior, He will
not be ashamed to own us. Let us strive to
overcome evil with good. Seek strength
from the Lord to overlook the imperfections
of others, even as we desire Him to over-
look ours; observe the golden rule, "Do
unto others as we would have them do unto
us," be diligent in improving our minds,
never lose an opportunity for gaining
knowledge. I would like you all to bear
your testimonies to retrenchment to-day, I
ask God to bless you.
	Mrs. Agnes Tuckett: I am happy to be
here to-day, the Spirit of God is with us. I
cannot instruct, but my desires are to do
right and carry our the instructions received
here. We can each one say a few words,
[Column 1]
and they will benefit us. Counselor Miss
Lelia Tuckett said: It is the wish of our
President that we all bear testimony to the
good of retrenchment. I know we have one.
We have hitherto relied too much upon our
parents, but now we must possess knowledge
for ourselves. We are told we not only
lose good instructions by neglecting our
meetings, but we also loose having our names
recorded by angels who are watching over
us. Miss Lizzie Mineer: I know this work
is true, and from God. It is time the young
ladies commenced to study the principles of
our religion. I would not have known to-
day what I do without the aid of retrench-
ment; I am not ashamed to bear my testi-
mony to the truth of Mormonism, I desire
to be numbered one with you in all things.
	Bro. Charles Edwards then said: It is
hard for me to express my feelings. This is all
new to me; I know now what I never knew
before, and my heart swells with joy. I
appreciate the invitation to speak to you;
I can say that God is satisfied with your pro-
ceedings; I have heard many things about
your Association, but I could not speak of a
thing of which I knew nothing. You shall
have my influence in behalf of this good
work, I shall strive to have it sustained, for
I can endorse all I have heard. You cannot
do better than you are doing. This will
lead you back into the presence of your
Father in Heaven. Sustain your President
and each other, be humble and prayerful and
strictly obedient; have sympathy for each
other and prepare yourselves for every event
which is to take place in this kingdom. You
may have to travel rugged paths, but do
right and the Lord will sustain you. Never
let anything stand between you and a meet-
ing where it is your duty to attend. Strive
to retain the spirit of God in your hearts,
and be full of integrity to God and His king-
dom. After adding many other instructive
remarks, he blessed the society in the name
of Jesus.
	President Mrs. Mary A. Freeze said: The
visits of our brethren will prove a great
blessing to us. Many have wrong impres-
sions with regard to our meetings, but we
are quite satisfied that we are doing right,
and we would like others to know it also.
	Counselor Mrs. Sophia Freeze said, I know
retrenchment is good, and I rejoice in my
religion. It is encouraging to know that
we are striving for and feel sure of the ap-
probation of our Heavenly Father. I am al-
ways sorry when we have a good meeting
and but few are present; I realize how much
good is lost.
	Appointments were made for the next
meeting: Mrs. Agnes Tuckett to write an
essay; the subject of Humility continued.
Meeting adjourned for one week; sang
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
	Benediction by Bro. Edwards.
		MISS LELIA TUCKETT, Secretary.
	A meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-
operative Retrenchment Association was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, March 6th, 1875. The assemblage
was very large, meeting opened after the
usual order; minutes were read from the
various wards, which were entertaining and
edifying, showing the increasing progress
made by the young ladies of these Socie-
ties.
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne addressed
the meeting, alluded to the brethren who
had met with them previously, having tes-
tified to the good spirit manifested in their
meetings, and that it had been thought in
times past, that whenever the sisters were
in the habit of meeting together there was
sure to be enthusiasm. But they had been


[Column 1]
organized now for several years and nothing
of that kind had ever yet shown itself in
their meetings.
	Counselor Mrs. B. Smith spoke of the
pleasure she always felt in these meetings,
said she had been edified by the minutes of
the young ladies; spoke of the diligence of
the sisters in the South in working for the
brethren who were engaged upon the tem-
ple, and of the joy she felt when she heard
the last rock had been laid upon the temple.
She was pleased that the young ladies were
abandoning the round dances, believed they
were injurious. She thought we should
avoid debt because of the anxiety it causes
husbands and fathers; that was one reason
why we should encourage home productions.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said she
would not intrude upon Sister M. A. Hyde's 
time, said Sister Smith in her remarks had
touched upon an important subject, home
production was of the first importance.
Said that uniting the hearts and feelings in
the home industry would eventually lead to
the United Order.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde from Spring City, San-
pete, said she seldom had the opportunity
of enjoying these meetings. Their branch 
of the Relief Society and those in other
settlements in that vicinity were progress-
ing. There had also been an association
formed for the young ladies, which seemed
to be doing much good. She expressed her
gratification in seeing the advancement
which had been made, but did not wish to
occupy the time, knowing there were many
present capable of advancing excellent ideas.
	Mrs. Blythe, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. E.
S. Barney, Mrs. Vanhorm and Mrs. H. Brin-
ton spoke upon the subject of home indus-
tries. Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young spoke
particularly upon silk-culture. Counselor
Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. S. B. Phelps
spoke on the same subject, after which
meeting was adjourned.
				M. M. Groo, Sec.

		HYDE PARK, Cache County,
				March 11th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	We have a Relief Society here, the mem-
bers of which, under the Presidency of
Mrs. Mary Woolf, meet every two weeks.
We have good meetings, and the sisters show
their willingness to do good, in making and
doing all they can for those who are needy;
and comforting those who are in distress.
Our President is alive to her duties and en-
courages the sisters to be one with her.
	Wishing success to every worthy enter-
prise, I am your friend.
				JANE E. MOLEN.

	From the First Ward, we have received
full reports of the meetings of the Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association since Jan.
20th, 1875. That they are making great
progress is plainly apparent by their min-
utes. One of their principle subjects has
been faith, which has been ably commented
upon by their President, Mrs. Sarah Gra-
ham, also Supt. Mrs. Elizabeth Higgs and
others. Obedience was another subject
touched upon, and also the fulfillment of
duty, especially in each one bearing her
testimony, the improvement which those
had made, who had been willing to do so,
and the blessings of the Spirit of God
which had attended them in their efforts.
They were exhorted by members of the so-
ciety in regard to visiting the sick, com-
forting those who were tried, and helping,
by their united efforts, to strengthen each
other. A general spirit of improvement,
union and mutual benefit is manifested by

[Column 2]
them, and their aim is to advance in the 
knowledge of those things which pertain to
life and salvation. They receive encour-
agement from the presence and good words
of Mrs. Margaret Steel from time to time.
Miss Sarah Smith, the Secretary, shows
rapid improvement in the position which
she holds.

			BEAVER CITY, UTAH TER.,
						March 16, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of this place held a party in the Re-
lief Society house on Saturday, 13th inst.
At two o'clock p.m. the young ladies met
to hold their regular meeting, which con-
tinued until half past four, when there was
an intermission of two hours. Then, the
parents and friends of the members having
arrived, the exercises—which consisted of
songs, speeches, original essays, readings
and declamations—were commenced. At
eight o'clock the company partook of a sup-
per provided by the young ladies. Good
instructions were given by Presidents
Fotheringham and Tyler, and Brother Mes-
senger. The party was dismissed by prayer
by Brother Wm. Flake.
	The Association has sixty-four members;
the meetings, which occur once in two
weeks, are well attended. Last month we
donated sixteen dollars to the St. George
Temple.
		Yours Respectfully,
				ELIZA E. PARKINSON,
							Secretary.

SIXTEENTH WARD S. L. City,
				March 20th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We have been somewhat silent but never-
theless there has been a good work done in
our Relief Society. 
	In 1868 a committee was chosen and duly
organized and we have held our meetings
monthly ever since; they have generally
been well attended and such business has
been done, as seemed necessary; the sisters
here rejoice in bearing testimony, enjoying
the gifts of the spirit and comforting each
other.
	As a committee, I can say, as our worthy
treasurer, sister Thompson did at our last
meeting, we are one and united, in doing
good, assisting the poor, comforting the
sick, and tried, and stirring up the luke-
warm to diligence.
	Our beloved Sister Snow met with us a
few weeks ago and suggested public meet-
ings as often as practicable, for all the mem-
bers of the society in the ward; we hold
them every alternate Saturday; the good
instructions we received from Sister Snow
will be long remembered. As a society we
are desirous of aiding efficiently in every
good work; we appreciate your paper, as also
all the interests of Zion.
		SARAH CUMBERLANT, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A FEW IDEAS ON WRITING.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

				"They that write	
	Or make a feast, more certainly invite
	Their judges than their friends; there's not a guest.
	But will find something wanting, or ill drest."
	Women are shrewd enough to perceive
that if they launch out into any field of la-
bor (save that of domestic everyday life)
they invite criticism, public and private.
Whether married, or single, old, or young,
ugly, or beautiful, they all come under the

[Column 2]
ban of ridicule, burlesque, or censure. Yet
from motives worthy the approval of hea-
ven itself, some of them are willing to face
public opinion and endure the frowns and
biting sarcasms of their nearest and dearest
friends in the hope of benefiting the hu-
man family, bold in defence of those prin-
ciples they honor and have espoused.
	Everything which comes in contact with
tradition and long-established custom is de-
cidedly unpopular; and those who lead out
in any new channel of thought or action,
must expect opposition in all varieties of
form, and from all imaginable sources. And
alas! should a mistake be made, or a failure
in an infantile attempt, the cry is raised at
once, "they were radically and essentially
wrong," whereas all those, who in the per-
formance of any given object, have arrived
at any distinction, or reached any unpre-
cedented goal, their failures are forgotten.
*	*	*	*	"Applause
	Waits on success; the fickle multitude,
	Like the light straw, that floats along the stream,
	Glide with the current still, and follow fortune."
	Man all powerful and in full possession of
the field, favors not the entrance of wo-
man into the common field of labor, and
would warn her "not to walk the dusty
roads of a working-day-world, but flit upon
the pleasant places of one made up of holi-
days." These "we masculine tyrants we
Dionysii of literature the controversial pen,
the controversial sword be ours"—but adds
"frown not fair helpmates, we will leave
your flower-beds, your sweeter human nur-
series, your despotism over cooks etc. etc.
or, for the more cerulean sort, Lyrics to the 
lost one, or stanzas on a sickly geranium;
but never hazard the loss of your sweet, re-
tiring, modest, amiable dependence; never
stand out as champions on the arena of
strife, but if you will—, strew it with poi-
ses, for the king of the tournament."
	Fair women, honest men I cry your par-
don universally. I can see no good, sound,
wholesome reason against 'woman's writing'
upon any of the general topics of the day.
She may be a profound thinker, but if her
ideas never assume any form, what will it
avail? She may speak, truly, but few will
hear her; and if she have courage to mount
the platform, unless she can deal exten-
sively in gossip, or create some new sensa-
tion, become a "lion" whom the world turns
out to hear roar, she sinks back, into obliv-
ion.
	Thus has it come to pass in this "golden
age" of scribbling, a few are willing to pro-
duce in writing a witness of their mind's
individuality. A tablet inscribed which
shall live forever; cleap, easy and puerile is
the faith that clings to the skirts of others.
These views we grant you, are from a wo-
man's stand-point. But we appeal to you,
wise men and good, who have dared to
think, write, print, in all these contrary to
many, you who have dared to stand alone,
to publish your thoughts in imperishable
print, to outface folly, to condemn vice, be 
generous here, and make allowance for
causeless censure, or unamiable criticism.
Our wrongs are many—but of them, some-
where and when, hereafter; it is always
wiser to suggest, than to exhaust a topic.
	Salt Lake City, March 24th, 1875


﻿THEY say that Vinnie Ream warbles like
a canary. She ought to sing well, there are
twenty choirs in a ream.—Cincinnati Times.

	THE boy who was "lost in thought" has
been found in Chicago.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	WHAT is to be? Why a verb to be sure.
	ONE of the boys just before returning to
Cornell, the other day, sent a young lady
friend of his a cake of Dubin's finest variety
of toilet soap, with the request that she
would draw no inferences on receiving such
a gift. The next day the young man was
somewhat astonished when he received a
letter from the young lady containing the
present of a fine tooth comb, with the re-
quest that he would draw no inferences
therefrom.
	ROCHESTER has fourteen astrologists, ten
magic doctors, two-mind readers, a fire-leg-
ged horse, a one-eyed goat, Seth Greene and
Susan B. Anthony and yet longs for some-
thing more. 
	A MAN down east returned his newspaper
to the printing-office with "Jackass" writ-
ten on the margin, and in the next issue
the editor stated the fact, and wound up
the paragraph by asking, "Will our indig-
nant subscriber please to let us know at what
stable he can be found?"
	AT a dinner party in "town" last August,
there were two sisters present, one a widow
who had just emerged from her weeds, the
other not long married, whose husband had
lately gone to India for a short term. A
young barrister present was deputed to take
the widow into dinner. Unfortunately he
was under the impression that his partner
was the married lady whose husband had
just arrived in India.  The conversation be-
tween them commenced by the lady's re-
marking how extremely hot it was. "Yes,
it is very hot," returned the young barris-
ter.  Then a happy thought suggested it-
self to him, and he added, with a cheerful
smile, "But not so hot as the place to which
your husband has gone." The look with
which the widowed lady answered this
"happy thought" will haunt that unhappy
youth till his death.—London Paper.
	"THAT singular man" is a bachelor.
	COLLECTORS know when their work is
dun.
	THE lady with a "single purpose" is an
old maid.
	THE man who "gained more than he lost"
was a gambler.
	THE man whose "first impressions were
often wrong" was a printer.
	A COCKNEY naturally confounds Masons
with hod fellows. 
	JOHN HENRY wants to know if the Ohio
lottery law prohibits marriages.
	AN old farmer purchased some sweet oil
in a drug store, and being asked if there
was "nothing else," he laid several packages
on the counter, held up a hand with several
strings tied on the fingers, and said: "Let's
see! That red string is for the bar soap; that
rag is for a broom; that blue cord for a cali-
co dress; that braid means four pounds of
sugar, and this other string is for sweet oil.
No—nothing more."—Detroit Free Press.
	WOMAN does a good deal to discourage
lofty sentiments of patriotism.  When a
man is leaning over the back fence telling a
neighbor how he would shed his last drop
of blood for suffering Louisiana, it disturbs
him to have his wife yell from the kitchen:
"Look a' here! Are you coming with that
bucket of water, or shall I come out and see
to you?"


[Column 1]
		LITTLE FOLKS.

	A LITTLE girl asked a minister, "Do you
think my father will go to heaven?" Why,
yes my child, "Why do you ask!" "Well,
because if he don't have his own way,
there, he won't stay long, I was thinking"
	SUNDAY school teacher to pupil—"Now,
my little man, can you explain to us the
cause of Adam's fall?" Little man (em-
phatically)—"Yes, sir; cause he hadn't any
ashes to throw on the sidewalk."—Brooklin
Argus.
	ON Monday morning we met a little
French boy lustily blowing a fish horn in
honor of the holiday. An Irish playmate of
the boy saluted him with, "What are you
blowing that horn for? George Washing-
ton did not die to save France."—Newbury-
port Herald.
	"Now, boys, suppose twelve men divide
forty-eight bushels of corn, equally, how
many is that for each?" Boldest boy:
"Please sir, we've not gone that far." "Your
teacher told me you had learned all the first
four rules. Boy: Yes, sir; but we have al-
ways done our sums in potatoes or turnips;
we never had any corn."
	"GRANDMA, do you know why I can see
up in the sky so far?" asked Charlie, a lit-
tle four-year-old, of the venerable lady who
sat on the garden seat knitting.  "No, my
dear, why is it?" said grandma, bending
her ear eager to catch and remember the
wise saying of the precious little pet "Be-
cause there is nothing in the way," replied
the young philosopher, resuming his astro-
nomical research, and grandma her knit-
ting.
	A WISCONSIN school boy handed in the
following composition recently: "I go to
school to learn to read and rite and syphor
and so forth to slide on the ice and traid
off an old nife if I have one, in summer to
pick wildflowers and strawberries and to get
out of work hot days, some boys has to go
to school to get out of their mother's road,
but I would rather stay in winter than to
go miles and set by a cold stove and freeze
my toes.  I like to go to school to see the
teacher scold the big girls when they cut
up.  Some goes to school to fool but I go to
study, when we are old we can't go to school
and then we will feel sorry that we fooled
when we were young and went to school. I
don't get no time to fool anyway for I have
enough to do when it comes to my geogra-
phy.
	DON'T GIVE UP BUT TRY.—A man trav-
eling in the northern part of Ireland, heard
the voices of children and stopped to lis-
en.
Finding the sound came from a small
building used as a school-house, he drew
near; as the door was open he went in, and
listened to the words the boys were spell-
ing.
	One little fellow stood apart, looking very
sad.
	'Why does that boy stand there?' asked
the gentleman.
	'Oh, he is good for nothing!' replied the
teacher. 'There's nothing in him.  I can
make nothing of him.  He is the most
stupid boy in school."
	The gentleman was surprised at this an-
swer. He saw that the teacher was so stern
and rough, that the younger and more timid
were nearly crushed. After a few words to
them, placing his hands on the noble brow
of the little fellow who stood apart he said,
—One of these days you may be a fine
scholar; don't give up; try, my boy, try.'

[Column 2]
	The boy's soul was aroused. His sleep-
ing mind awoke. A new purpose was
formed. From that hour he became anx-
ious to excel. And he did become a fine
scholar, and the author of a well known
commentary on the Bible; a great and good
man, beloved and honored.  It was Dr.
Adam Clarke,
	The secret of his success is worth know-
ing: 'Don't give up; but try, my boy.'


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
   CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
		      AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	    Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
      Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS. 
				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 
			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
	        Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store.
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO.OP CORNER. 
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
				CLUB RATES.  
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.								$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,								  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50							   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price  $4                       48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify as of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers. 
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former,  as 
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and 
otherwise using their influence to increase its circul-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
