VOL. 3.							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1874	No.12.


AN INTERESTING LETTER.
LAIE, Oahu, Oct. 5, 1874.
President Brigham Young:
	Thinking you would like to know how I am
progressing with my department of the Hawai-
ian Mission, I send you the following report.
	I am very happy to state that, after unre-
mitting perseverance, I have succeeded in es-
tablishing a good English school on Laie.
	We arrived here on the 3rd of June, 1873.
On the 16th I commenced my school with four
native children. In a few days the number in-
creased to seven. Since the first of January,
1874, the average daily attendance has been
twenty. On the 16th of June, just one year
from the opening of my school, I had a public
examination and exhibition. There were pre-
sent one of the school agents of this district, the
district judge, many of the parents and friends
of the pupils, also Bros. Mitchell, Cluff and
Richards, and sister Mitchell. The number of 
pupils present was 24, including three of Bro.
M's children.
	The exercises consisted of spelling, reading,
writing, mental and written arithmetic, and
geography, also recitations and dialogues and
singing. The examination lasted five hours,
including a short intermission at noon. During
the whole of the time there was not a failure.
The native children deported themselves in a
manner that would have been creditable to a
more enlightened people. Bro. Mitchell's little
girls have attended the school from its com-
mencement. They have made rapid progress in
their studies. They passed a good examination
of a higher grade than the natives, and were
quite a help to me in getting up the exhibition
They also played a number of pieces on the or-
gan, which added much to the entertainment.
At the close of the examination, Bros. Mitchell
and Cluff, the school agent, the district judge,
and other leading men of the place, made some
very appropriate addresses to the pupils and 
their parents. All expressed themselves well
pleased with the progress the pupils had made
in their English studies, and encouraged them
to continue at the school. Bro. Mitchell has
done all in his power to make the school a suc-
cess. He has talked to the people, both in pub-
lic and private, telling them of the advantages
to be derived from an English education. The
rest of the brethren have rendered what assist-
ance they could.
	Financially, the school has not been a suc-
cess; those who patronize it are generally poor,
and after having paid government and school
taxes, and getting the common necessaries of
life, they have but little left for the payment of
school bills. I charge them twenty cents per
week per scholar, which is five cents cheaper
than other schools of the same grade that have
assistance from the government. But I am here
on a mission to benefit the people all I can, and
not to oppress them by charging exorbitant
prices for what I do for them. I only want a
living, and that in the most economical style.
	As all or nearly all of the English schools
are receiving subsidies from the government,
Brother Mitchell thought it advisable for me
to apply to the Board of Education for some as-
sistance. I did so, and corresponded with the
President of said Board. He replied that when
the present session of the Legislature closed,
they would have a meeting, and my case would 
be considered.
	Not long since I was in Honolulu, and called
on Dr. J. M. Smith, the secretary of the Board
of Education. I had a very pleasant interview
with him; I gave him a report of my school,
with which he was much pleased, and said he
would do all he could to procure assistance for
me. Since that time I have received a letter
from him, stating that he had presented my case
to the Board at its meeting, that it was duly
considered, and that my efforts to promote the
educational interests of the country were duly
appreciated, but the means at present under its
control would not permit of any new outlays,
and that the strictest economy would have to be
exercised to meet its present numerous obliga-
tions.
	I venture to add a few words about our Sun-
day school. Our average attendance is fifty,
ranging from five to fifty years of age. I have
a class of three boys and nine girls, who read in
the English Testament. They are learning
well, and are punctual in attendance. With the
exception of two, they are pupils from my day 
school.
	The children and people, as far as I know,
feel well towards me, and as they express it,
"Aloha nui ia oe." They wish me to remain
with them. I make a special point to study
their character, in order to know what course to
pursue with them to result in the most good. I
am well pleased with my mission here; the
time passes very pleasantly; the climate agrees
with my health; I am not in the least degree
home sick, and am willing to remain here as
long as I can do good to the people, or as long
as I am desired to stay.
Brother Alma L. Smith has arrived. He
is well and feeling well.
	Our Conference commences to-morrow.
We are all here now; the young brethren have
returned from their fields of labor on the other
islands to attend conference. They are feeling
well.  We are all well and in excellent spirits.
	Please remember me kindly to your family
and the brethren in the offices.
	May peace and prosperity ever attend you.
—Deseret News.		M. E. RANDALL.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A DEVENPORT (Iowa) man lately shipped
2,800 barrels of onions for the East. Profit,
$1.60 per barrel.
	THE French people produce more eggs
than any other and ship millions of them to
England annually.
	W.P. ANDERSON of Albany has recently
been awarded a patent for a clod crusher of
his own invention.
	THERE is an orchard fifty years old in
Sonoma county, California, and some of the
trees are still producing good crops.
	THE public school children of California
contributed $1,780,44 to the Lincoln Monu-
ment, dedicated by President Grant at 
Springfield, Ills., recently.
	THE Chicago Public Library, founded
just after the great fire, has now 40,000 vol-
umes. It is supported by a tax of one-fifth
of a mill, which already gives an income of
$65,000 a year.
	THERE are about one hundred millions of
people on the face of the globe who would
regard the loss of their daily cup of coffee
as one of the greatest privations they could
endure, although it is only for the last two
hundred years that coffee has been gener-
ally known to the civilized world. 
	THE Washington Insane Asylum contains
at present fifty patients, nine of whom are
females. The rate paid to the contractor,
Mr. Harmon, for their keeping is ninety-one
cents per day for each patient. This in-
cludes board, clothing and washing. The
Territory pays for medical attention.
	CRUSOE'S Island is said to be to-day a lit-
tle Paradise. Lord planted there, on one of
his voyages apples, peaches, grapes,
plums, strawberries and several kinds of
vegetables. The number of the latter was
increased by a Scotchman, David Doug-
las, who landed on the island in 1826.


For the EXPONENT.
		A LESSON ON MATRIMONY.
MRS. EDITRESS:
	Will you, me one kindly favor do? Pub-
lish this meek note I send, of a pleasant
lady friend. Dear Electa, fair and gentle
—Ah! I'm growing sentimental! Well, 'tis
this, she's married now; she may tell you
where and how. Only this would I be stat-
ing, 'twas a happy time for mating. All
their friends are now declaring, since she's
taken to Manwaring, both seem happier
than ever, both are wiser and more clever;
both as bright as rosy June, 'mid their au-
tumn honey-moon.
			MORAL.
	Ho! young men and maidens hear! Mark
their course and persevere. Fear ye not,
ye tardy men, that a day approaches when
Judges will do all the courting, and arrest
you for such sporting? Then as days grow
cold and colder, wax ye lovers bold and
bolder; make an earnest, sure advance,
while you still may have a chance. Ah! I
see there's one objection to that sort of fond
connection. How your purse string oft
relaxes, now for debts, donations, taxes.—
Never mind if you're expert you can buy a
wedding shirt. Therefore, let your spirits
soften—"marry young and marry often;"
take a mutual friend's advice, never stop at
it once or twice.
				FIDEI DEFENSOR.
	S.L. City, Nov. 8th, 1874.


MY ENGLISH HOME.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:--
	I believe every Englishman, and more
particularly every English woman who has
seen Risley's Mirror of England, will agree
with me that the grand panorama deserves
to be advertised. The artist whose cunning
hand completed those paintings, has, in my
eyes, achieved a glorious work. They are
true to life—with this exception if I make
any—almost too much brilliancy or light of
coloring may have been given to some of
the views. But this is well, where Ameri-
ca's children are to be entertained; they be-
ing accustomed to clearer skies in general,
and perhaps more gorgeous day dawns and
sun sets, than the native Britain.
	While watching those scenes unfolded in
life like loveliness and sublimity, I could
but frame in my mind the wish that every
English man or woman in our Territory,
could have the privilege of beholding them
as I did. Oh these familiar scenes! My
country! My country! My fair, sweet. beau-
tiful English home! I shall never return to
you in the flesh! My mortal eyes will
never more survey your sacred bounds, ex-
cept as now in panoramic view. But, "The
earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof."
And when it has all been redeemed, and is
given to the Saints for their possession,
who knows but I shall have an inheritance
there?					A PATRIOT.


MISS Cora H. Wilkes, of Allegan, has
filled a bookkeeper's position with signal
ability in the city National Bank of that
place for several years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the Exponent.
		QUESTIONS﻿.

	Is it a crime for woman to love?
Do not the angels in courts above?

Is it a crime to love unsought?
Yea, so the wise old world hath taught.

What if affection past her control
Mingled with hope should enter her soul,

Must they be stifled, forever unknown,
Hid in her breast as a diamond stone?

Or if she dare this love to betray,
Tell, she has given her young heart away,

Should she be treated as foolish and weak
because she has ventured his favor to seek?

If she believes him noble and pure,
One who will ever faithful endure,

Is she to blame for loving that man?
Now critics, answer me "Yes" if you can.
							Queery.


vantage
is....

ntageqrfortKej
vulgarity.!.-s
nppearanceof advantage;
J..a. pjib3 oj.edit.dwr.‘,.
' uTlra'EiaA sivhNEiu
v. , ;	’...:
tPerhapS every man, 1 think every woman;
I--am"quite sure every happily married
couple, no matter how public and undomes-
tic their present life, cherish somewhere
down in their hearts an ideal of a future
homestead. I do not mean ri castle in Spain,
buttho possible house which, wheqa few
possible things turn up, they mean to live
in, and to the thought of which they cling
even more and more fondly as the unfulfilh
ing years, go by. On the :days when the
surface glitter and rattle of life and the om-
nipresent; stare Of people's eyes become un-
endurable, we comfort ourselves with build-
ing, in fancy, a higher hedge around that
homestead. In the days whori millinery
openings, and the emanation? of fresh-stirred
city dirt-heaps remind us that somewhere
it; is spring, we find relief in considering
whether we would better sod the lawn or
sow it with grass-seed, when we get that
home of our own, When the friend of our
youth comes to seo usand wo negotiate
with the hotel clerk for an extra, seat at the
table, or ponder in which theatre to spend
our evening, wo take a half unconscious
undercurrent of solace in furnishing thb
spare chamber- and building an extravagant
fire on the hearth of that home of bur own.
When tlib boarding-house plario is especially
out. "of tune, When the hoarding-house' fare
is more than usually stale, flatjftnd unprofit-
able, when a Certain person cuts us on the
street, yea, when the curbstone Ot the. cross-
ing.’ waslhighor than we thought and we
have Stubbed otir-toe, WO think to ourselves
in. dudgeon,‘ bit woifit he so when we'liaye a
home-of our dWn.h '  '		1
MayJ hot have my ideM as well; as an-
other? ; I;have, AridTdesire; dear reader, tp
compare it’‘with yours: Supposing;'the;
house to be the body wherein .dwells", that'
spirit which wo call the!home;r shall’fd6.
my notion ,Of a home and’ fit my hottse there-
to..-	-
First—It-should be ecbnomical.
The ideal of a honiestead, to be of pipCp
value, should be one" that is accsiiplrito
that portion of the community Which ijr
moStnimportftht1 to suit—whiefi 'portion 1
take to be,.not fhe-foo poor, whcahnothfell
be-suited hof the too rich,'who can1 genius
ally manage1to get; iri one or another;waste-
ful way; more' than they havb'ramed the
riglit-to; but those who do th6 worjds WOrk
and wield the World's force?, and neOd rind,
must have the best of its advantage.
Economy, if we may trust our dictionary,
is that management of ourTeSOUrces which,
expend? to advantage without Incurring
waste. To violate this principle is! to vio-
late true taste; for expenditure Without ad-
Cd a house
i The first of our many mistakes Was a vio-
lation of true-economy, and-therefore'of
truo art, in roakjng;Qur dwelling, top-large.
There Is Scarcely a room in it, which might
noThavo been somewhat smaller, ancT still
retained'its pleasantness and convenience.
It is true there have been a. few times when
this extra spaCb Was both a .pleasure and
a, convenience;, but a.honaa is supposed .to
bq planned fpr .ordinary and not extraoirdw
nary occasions: or, asDr. Fuller expresses
it;'!“Better to small for H day than too large-
for a year.” ‘' "r	"
Our next mistake was in the same direc-
tion—ceilings too high. If a ceiling is suf-
ficiently raised to prevent the heated air
jfrOm: falling back upon Our beads with a
periSQ of oppression it is obviously high
phqugh. Every foot above this ia an addi-
tion to the cost :of building, and the after
cost of heating, without a Corresponding
advantage.-		
“But,” your architect will argue, “that
has nothing to do witb .it; yoq must make
the hight of your room in a certain propor-
tion to the length and breadthof your room,
or the thing Will look wrong. :.
I, hrioW but little of, architectural. .rules,
but I.know that as there is pne .standard of
proportion for a Grecian temple, with its
vastness and dimness—a staudard growing
out Of its uses—so there ought to be an ut-
terly different standard of proportion for an
American dwelling, which, to be sure,
should grow directly out of its uses. If I
had some reason for requiring one room in
a house to be more than ordinarily long and
broad, I should not feel called upon to makp
it high in proportion, unless I needed the
bight. It would be an expenditure of
means in excess'6f the endy arid .therefore
must be wrong.
Secondly—It should be Atnerican.
Its architecture should fit the heeds of
our own place and time. Iri the good old
days when every man’s house was his castle,
it was so because every man who owned a
bouse was forced to.,makp if a castle forself
protection against his next-door enemy, for
seldom in those days, were there, .any. next
door neighbors. And a V.Ory grririd, impos-
ing, picturesque, inconvqmebt, cheerless,
unwholesome house it must have bdeh;
witli its walls like barracks, and chamber's
like .cells, and windows like slits in a jail.
Instead, of .a pleasant hedge, about, it, noi-
some ditches; , instead of an easy eritraned
to welcome folks in; a gateway, expresslycon-
trived to keep folks out; instead.of: a house
arranged; fo, be kept:jvitb,- the smallest
amopritbf hired spr.vipo, a. menage- necessi-
tating what were known tp the. novelist as
BQvpted .Ttetaipdrs, but, to. the feudal mis-
tress, ns a swarmv of .sfupid; idr.pqkOPj, balf-
mahageable, ever, noisy, qvpr; hungry crea-
tures, whose brawling, disorders nqHSkhrive
made the old-time housewife’s lot. a wearL
npss indeed. '		"
Tile fact-that Gothic architecture, whether
in .the forrri Of caStle1 or batftedral, demands
for its best effects the elements of size arid
massiveness, constitutes an objection, in
mariycasek, to its use In.domestic life; Once
theso elements had a meaning, and-were
therefore beautiful; now they ItaVo none;
and are therefore, ugljv  And.yet, without
site they-are more or less:ridiculous,  I re-
member speing,..yerrs ago-rr-on the Hudson,
I think—a castle, which .by “riiaking be-
lieve’fa; gpod deal, you could ;alraost per-
suade yourself; was the. real thing. You
must half shut your eyefef and. play that
the ;treps wcjrp Very largeyand the rocks
Werpipreciifices, hndTthen you could almost
imagine’thbt you expected to see a party of
Do Bracy’s Free Companions stream out
from under its portals, with banners waving 
arid trumpets blaring, and'hbrses 'neighing"
for conflict with somebody across the road.'
When next I saw..that castle, alaal the.dxeam . 
was o’er. A heartless business, man, some
mere useful person, had put up a large,
plain, square, brick factory close by, and
four times the size of the castle which,
henceforth, no malto-believe could call any-
thing but a toy.	-
Dot us, then, preserve: the iriediqvrihstyles
pf architecture in our pictures, tuf we ‘pre-
serve tile medieval habits in our poem? and
talcs, apdnpply to our own lives only siich
features: of each a?, suit our own peculiar
rieeds. The ideal bouse of the robin is it
nest, and nothing else- would become berj
that of the Indian a Wigwam, and noth!pig'
so pictpesqupl that of the war-iike barph,‘a
Aste, and nothing ejse sp fitting; that of
the dweller, inunny;lahds an arcliltectnro
graceful and airy as .thab of Which Milton
spoaks, which “rpso like an: exHaiatfon'
tliqt of'the. civilized American. Of thoLhihet;,
tecuth century, a style neither Boman, nor.
Grecian, nor Moorish,- nor even English but
American, retaini’bg such feature? Only of
plder styles as suit the. modem rieC(i and
adding thereto yithout . scrup)q whate.Ver:
previously, unheard-of "featurQ may be de-
manded by an. American: climate, soil; and
social customs. Arid ashere -has bperi the
history of all Other worthy ‘Orders, of arepi-
tectiire, and as bearify jdiffenfigitye3;l(as;
bqen the result, I .kn.Qv hot why. wft ahould-
fear to. trust the same principle' in our: case
to bring the same result.	-k
Thirfl—It should be healthful.
T(6 this end p true ccjririrny demands'.thxyf
we expend large, proportion pflourihuilUr.
ingmoney, in securing, .a JnlL supply-of.'the:
very best-quality of sunshine, Waterhir
and fire : Det the bliildfng be so p.faeed, if
possihie, that the;,Sun shall eritqxOvery ppOntt
at.some time , of tbq . day, This is. InowjjSpiV
well understood that .It needs.no special in-
sistance. Let the ventilation be- as -far riS;
possible, automatic, so that it cprirtot be Neg-
lected or interfered with by unthinking
persons. And let carp be taken thatp.iioflL 
drained sink shall harbor an eyil spirit to
arise in vapor from its pipo like1 the Gfenii
from hi? jar, and slay an uriwdry horisebbid." ';
Qnly second in InipOrtanco.to WhaVwp pdt,
is the kind of air wp breathe; and;this;for,
at least, seven months in the. year, is largely
nffected by the contrivance? adopted to keep 1
us warm.	”	V!... 
There is your- open fircplap Jgood for
ventilation', unexceptionabip :;n.ppetryi .phor-
ciou3 .in old. folk’s memories; a? they sit in A.
furriaCe-warmed room, and; call up pictures'
pf"the circle roiipd; a blazing hearth some,
jifty'.b.ars', ago; beautiful anA,.'inspiring It
certainly is, and;much tQ.'bq.prizqd ajujr-v 
urious addiiion to..Other', heating arrange-
ments; holding about the same relation to'-
such as flowers at Idinner hold to meat;' bu;
As a chief reliance, the hearth is priisfacl-
lory. If, like a beaf?teak, we, could broil
first.one side, then the other, and then- be
done, it Were well: With us; but its sopn as
wo turn our broiled side’away frouri’ljthe
beat, cold draughts, seize. Upon 'an4J
straightway that.side become?-more. raw:...
than before
Coal stoves in the separate robm? are called
economical; but attendant on these' cornq irij
cessan’t coal-heaving, burnt 'air, ’ dustj'ariql
ashes, vexation of spirit; also liability, to ,di-
vorce,. for what man or woman, washover;'
i
HWKBWep?eSCa®!SC33SSS6aSi5
nrm'-Kw


known to yield supremacy to another in the
art of keeping up a fire?
	Next in order comes the ordinary hot-air,
or as it is often called, gas furnace. The
name is a good one, if applied to its habit of
emitting about such an atmosphere as sin-
ners are taught to dread in the hot hereafter.
Here, also, there are degrees of sulphure-
ousness, but with the best of them flowers
will shrivel and silver articles tarnish, and
human lungs accustomed to it grow danger-
ously sensitive to outside air. Steam-heat-
ing, although a great improvement on the
burnt-air method, involves some slight dis-
advantages; the coils of unsightly pipe in
each room must be elaborately covered and
also occupy space: and in rooms so heated
we are apt to notice here and there a little
saucer under the joints of the pipe, from
which we may infer that it is difficult to
keep these joints water-tight. There is,
however, an improvement on the steam-
pipes, and it is one of which I can speak
with the authority of experience. In it the
air, brought fresh from out-of-doors and con-
ducted in boxes over coils of steam-pipe in
the cellar, rises thence through the registers.
It can never be burned, can never be dry,
can never be mixed with suicidal gases; it
is so bland in its warmth, that a room full of
it at Christmas is like a room full of May;
and a proof of its purity is that garden
plants thrive in it; ferns and lycopodiums
will preserve their dewy softness, instead of
rattling, as they do, in furnace heat; and 
even camellias will keep the promises they
made in the green-house, and not, as is their
wont, cast down their half-filled waxen buds
in despair.
	Such a heating apparatus costs more than
a common furnace, but the increase in
healthfulness is so far beyond the increase
in expense, that if I were advising a party
about to make that home of their own, I
should say, do without your parlor mantel,
if need be, leave your walls unpapered,
your ceilings unstuccoed, your windows un-
curtained, yea, your floors uncarpeted, but
put away money enough to get a furnace for
steam-heated air. 
		TO BE CONTINUED


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.

			THE GREAT PROBLEM.
NATURE VIEWED IN THE LIGHT OF MODERN
				SCIENCE.

	Mr. Liefchild has written a work on the 
above subject now engaging the attention 
of scientists to the excluison, frequenlty, of
common sense. It is interesting to note
the views of Dr. Crosby, by whom an intro-
duction of the above work has been writ-
ten. Without entering into the arena of 
controversy where the bonds of creation are
contending so vigorously, we may quote a 
part of Dr. Crosby’s opinion upon the sub-
ject at issue:  	
	“The royal Psalmist said, “The heavens
declare the glory of God, and the firma-
ment showeth his handy work.” The mod-
ern Huxleys respond: “The heavens de-
clare nothing at all, and the firmament is
ultimately but eternal protoplasm." In this
happy and hopeful response the materialists
are as much traitors to science as enemies
to religion. They ignore all the facts of
mind. This whole department of cogni-
tions is neglected in arranging their prem-
ises. The very first canon of science is thus
violated, which demands that all facts 
be collated as data. Then, a second fallacy
of which they are guilt is, leaving scientific


proof and leaping, by the imagination, to
the conclusion that life is merely matter. 
They find an ultimate matter (only ultimate, 
however, owing to the limited power of the
microscope), and straightway say, "This is
life," although it is known to exist without
life, and has not a single characteristic of
life in it. By such unscientific methods
these scientific men, whose names are now
so famous, have imposed upon the un-
learned and credulous, and made men lose
their faith in the eternal truths of God.
Darwinism is another form of the same in-
fidelity, working its evil by the same un-
scientific methods. Darwin leaps to his
conclusions against every axiom of science,
and Darwinism is, instead of science, mere
theory. Science and Religion are as one.
They both come from God and lead to God.
"The heavens declare the glory of God,"
and "the statutes of the Lord are right, re-
joicing the heart," are accordant strings of
the same harp.
	We need sensible and learned men to come
forward and show the world what fools these
pseudo-scientists are, and thus break the
spell, which is as groundless as the Cock-
lane Ghost, but which holds so many all-
agape at their fantastic tricks."


WOMAN'S RECORD. 

	MISS Edna Dean Proctor, of Brooklyn, has
sued the “Daily Graphic,” of New York,
for $100,000 damages for slandering her, al-
though her name was not mentioned at al
in the paper.
	MRS. Joseph Utton, of Boston, who had
been insane for several days previous, re-
cently took a dose of Paris green, and then
jumped into the Charles River. Between
the two she achieved suicide.
	MAY Alcott, sister of Louisa M. and
daughter of Bronson Alcott, the Concord
Sage, recently exhibited, at Concord, Mass.
cattle-show, a pair of her beautiful panel
paintings of flowers. She spent some time
last year in the picture galleries of London.
	THE "Golden Dawn" tells us that Nettie
La Grange, who, in the absence of Mr.
Johnson is successfully conducting the Santa
Barbara “Press,” has been sued for libel by
one Clarence Gray, of that city. She was
bound over in the sum of $2,000 to appear
before the next Grand Jury. Two gallant
Barbarians promptly went on her bond. 
	THE woman suffrage meeting at Provi-
dence, R. I., recently was an uncommonly
interesting gathering, and the impress that
the Smith sisters of Glastonbury, Ct., and
the Fosters of Worcester, Mass., have made
upon the cause has been particularly notice-
able. Indeed, the leading subject of the ad-
dresses was taxation without representation.
Lucy Stone said: “History will garner up
laurels for Abba Kelly Foster, who put her
gay life, with all its hopes, upon the altar of
a great reform,” and “the cart in which the
Smith sisters stood to plead with their
townsmen should be put in Independence
Hall as an object of veneration.”


﻿A well dressed man entered a jewelry
store and asked if he might look at the cups
in the window. “These,” said the jeweler,
handling one, “are race cups?” “Race cups?
What are race cups?” “Why,” replied the
jeweler, “they are cups I had ordered to be
made for prizes to the best racers.” “Well,
if that’s so, suppose you and I start for one,”
and, with cup in hand, he started, the jew-
eler after him. He won the cup.


﻿FOOD FOR REFLECTION.

DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:—
	I have just been reading the "Juvenile
Instructor" for September 26ht. Something
in Mr. Higginson's letter from Spanish
Fork, took my attention; and I thought I 
would like to make a remark upon it through
the EXPONENT. He writes about the Span-
ish Fork Sunday School having an excur-
sion to Aitkin's Park, or Lake Side, “a de-
lightful spot, situated on the east side of
Utah Lake, near the mouth of Spanish
Fork River.” And he says: “On arriving
at the pleasure grounds, we were welcomed
with applause and demonstrations of joy by
the residents of Lake Side, who had volun-
tarily erected a bowery for our reception,
and were proffering each his services, with
the use of his respective boat to happify the
guests.”
	When I read this, I thought, what a good,
kind, truly Christian spirit must actuate the
people of that little town, Lake Side. And
I wished in my heart that all the people, in 
all our settlements, could feel like that to-
ward each other; not only upon excursion 
days, or in times of pleasure and merry-
making, but in all their business transac-
tions, and affairs of every day life as well. 
If we felt and acted with such good will to-
wards all, we would “love our neighbors as
ourselves” I think.			GUESS WHO.


﻿The striking success of Miss Thompson in
the Royal Academy exhibition at London has
called attention to the English female
schools of art, in the leading one of which,
that at South Kensington, she was once a
student. We have before us an account of
the distribution of prizes at the Bloomsbury
school, at which the archbishop of York offi-
ciated. It appears from the report that
there are 124 schools of the kind in the
United Kingdom and 23,843 students in 
them. There are five grades of competi-
tion; one open to all the schools; one for the
individual school, for prizes presented by
the queen, and by the science and art de-
partment; the third for certificates of excel-
lence in various branches and of efficiency
as teachers; the fourth for a recently en-
dowed two-years scholarship; and, finally,
for prizes given from time to time by friends
of the school. The grand exhibition is held
at the South Kensington school, and, in
speaking of the astonishing progress in art
culture made in England, in recent years,
Mr. Hawley, R. A., stated that no fewer
than 180,000 works have been sent thither
from the various schools. Miss Thompson's
genius is a spur and exemplar to these
young women, now that she has so brilliantly
achieved recognition by her “Roll Call”— 
“Woman’s Journal.”


THE latest and most plausible plan brought
forward for running street cars in cities
without the aid of horses is a foreign de-
vice, in which the motive power used is an
arrangement of powerful springs incased in
cylinders, like watch-springs, of course on
a very large scale, and the application of
which to the cars now employed is said to
be extremely simple and easy. These
springs are wound up by small stationary
steam engines at each terminus of the line,
and when so wound up will propel the cars,
even with stoppages, for a longer distance
than any existing line of this kind extends.
The action is reversible, the application of
the brake-power in every respect satisfac-
tory, and the working of the whole thing
is pronounced a success.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South 
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS. 
	
				LOCAL.
	Work on the street railway from the Val-
ley House corner eastward is being dili-
gently prosecuted......Risley’s panoramic
mirror of England deserves better patronage
than it obtained here......A road to the newly
discovered coal mines, thirty miles from St.
George, is under way......The first real snow
storm of the season, in this valley, occurred
on the night of the 6th inst......The last
company of immigrants for this year arrived
in Ogden on Wednesday the 4th......There
has been a considerable emigration to
Dixie this season, from this and the north-
ern portion of the Territory......The prices 
for fish and meat in some of our city mar-
kets have lately been reduced.
		       POLITICAL
	Democracy will carry the country this
season by a large majority......China pays
Japan an indemnity of half a million tales
and settles the difficulties which have ex-
isted between them......The United States
internal revenue receipts for this year
amount to more than thirty five and a half
million dollars......The State Legislature of
Alabama has a Democrat majortiy of twen-
ty-nine; that of Missouri, eighty-three......
General Banks will probably be elected as
Speaker of the next House of Representa-
tives......Jubilations have been held by the
Democrats in different parts of the country
in honor of their victories.
		         PERSONAL
	The President of the Woman’s Congress
for the nsueing year, will be Miss Maria
Mitchell, the lady astronomer of Vassar
College......Garibaldi is to receive an annu-
ity of six thousand dollars from the muni-
cipality of Naples......Hon. W. Head of
Tennessee, who had just been elected to Con-
gress, died on the ninth inst......Queen Vic-
toria lately danced for the first time since
her widowhood......Adelina Patti is to re-
ceive a salary of $50,000 in the Paris opera
this season......Rosa Bonhuer is fifty-two,
unmarried and lives with a sister and sev-
eral brothers......Mrs. Logan, mother of
Senator Logan, recently died at Murphys-
boro, Illinois.


FLORAL HINTS.
	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Nov, 3rd 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Clothed in garments of white, grim frost
has appeared, and laid low very many of
our floral beauties—of all the year the sad-
dest, when by the thousands our treasures are
rudely blasted, and in an hour lose form,
fragrance and beauty—and we helpless to
avert the evil.—Well it is good to look at
the other side and think, how many days,
weeks, months in the past year we have
been daily greeted with the smiles of the
flowers—Aye! a long season of delight, from
early February, till the end of October!
nine long blooming months. Now with the
score or two of pots for winter blooming and
parlor gardening, ought we not to be satis-
fied till the genial warmth of spring shall
awaken our thousand-hued flowers, and
woo them back to life, and our glad wel-
come?
	If it is desired to have bulbs for winter
flowering, and they are not yet planted, lose
no time. Select, hard, firm, heavy, smooth
specimens, place them in the pots so that
the bulb is just fairly covered with moist
dust, firmly pressed down and against the
bulb. Now place your pots in cold frame-
cellar—closet—or any dark place of even


temperature, say about 50° give a little
moisture as needed—but not too much, and
let them remain till the roots pretty well
fill the pot and top starts—now bring to the
parlor, gradually exposing to light, sun, and
heat, and you will be very likely to have
what you wish—bloom vigorous, sweet,
lovely.
	It is little use to bring to the heated par-
lor, flowering plants with umbrageous tops,
and scanty weak roots, for you will have to
nurse, and doctor a long time before you
are paid with blossoms. Unless you know
something of flower culture, or mean to
learn by practice, it would be best to rely
upon the judgment of some honest florist for
selection of winter blooming plants and
those otherwise for ornament.
	Now good sisters—whatever you do, or
don't accomplish—be sure you don't fail to
have a few pots of flowers in the house, and
take good care of them and teach your
children to care for them daily.
						FLORA.


﻿HEART vs. HEAD.

	Shall our daughters be educated? Yes, by
all means! But let us attend to the education
of their hearts as well as their heads. And let
it be true education, not the false.
	True it is that the continuous practice of sen-
sational novel reading destroys the healthful
functions of heart and brain, Yet there is a
possibility of people becoming too matter-of-
fact for the full, free exercise of human happi-
ness. To pursue any or all branches of scien-
tific literature with such vigor and devotion as
to crush out, or blunt the growth of all emo-
tional qualities, of a domestic character, is
making a mistake in the course of education.
	Yet women become ambitious, and laudably
so, to gain wealth and distinction and power
equal to that possessed by men. And with
some, before they are aware, that ambition
grows into an excited determination to excel.
Rather than run the risk of a failure through
the admission of other hopes and purposes, they
shut out from their imaginations all the softer
tints of nature’s coloring, by which the rude,
dark scenes so frequently occurring in life’s
pathway, might be made comparatively cheery
and light. Thus the head becomes educated
to the exclusion from culture and proper devel-
opment of the innate faculties of the subdued
and silenced heart.
	Is not the woman who thus pampers and ex-
alts those personalities which she may consider
the noblest and most excellent in her nature,
at the expense of blighting finer and more ex-
quisite qualities, quite as unjust in her decis-
ions as the stern and much learned connois-
seurs who would refuse women the right to en-
ter the colleges? If the daughter may legiti-
mately claim the right to ALL the advantages


for an education which are guaranteed to her
brother—and we aver she may—then have all
those qualities which serve to render us pleas-
ing and agreeable as social beings, or happy
within ourselves, a right to live and receive
care and culture, quite as much as the most
practical talent which may serve as a resource
for gaining daily bread.
	Not more in woman than in man should the
heart's best gifts as well as those of the head
be acknowledged and educated. If gentle for
bearance, pure and sincere affection, sympathy
patience and perfect love are virtues, as such
they should be recognized in man as readily as
in woman.
	It has been the popular cry that no woman
could be a good, true, loving wife, and at the
same time successfully follow any profession.
If so, neither can a man do justice to any pro-
fessional calling and prove a kind, affectionate
and considerate husband. The truth is, man
has been looked upon as the soul proprietor of
the head, and woman has been considered as
merely a possessor of the heart; whereas, to
each have both been given. And woman need
not now ignore the fact, that she has a heart
because she begins to comprehend that she has
also a head like that of her lord's; which, if
she can but gain an opportunity, she can use to
advantage. But let man learn that as the Bible 
teaches, it was simply a rib, not a heart that
was taken from him; and he being still the
owner of a heart, is expected to exercise some
of its chief excellencies in making himself, and
assisting to make his home and the world what
he would have them and what they should be.


PRETTY AND SENSIBLE.
	To accord with the change in the weather,
ladies of late appear on the streets in warm
wrappings and overshoes. At one of the cross-
ings the other morning, we met a rosy cheeked,
bright eyed maiden whose neat costume we
noted with peculiar interest and admiration.
Her dress, which was of home-made material
from one of the Utah factories, was made with
gored skirt, without a single puff or bias piece
or yard of velvet trimming. A neatly fitting
coat of the same material, was also innocent of
trimming except the useful buttons. A mod-
est little broach fastened a plain white linen
colar at the throat. She wore home-made
buck-skin gloves with wristlets of our own
mountain fur. Although the approach of win-
ter had already become apparent, this sensible
and exceedingly pretty young girl had not yet
thrown aside her last summer's straw hat.
And we doubt not that she wore shoes of do-
mestic manufacture, though we failed to ob-
serve this as she passed us with a graceful nod
of the head and a pleasant smile of recogni-
tion.


HOME AFFAIRS
	The Utah Southern Railroad is to be ex-
tended as far South as Santaquin, in a short
time. 
	At the Utah Iron works at Iron city, iron is
being produced in considerable quantities
and said to be of good quality.
	Colds are now prevalent—and bad ones too,
for, as a gentleman remarked to us, we never
hear of any person's having a good one.
	A hard winter seems to be generally ex-
pected throughout this Territory. Several days
since, some of the canyon roads were closed up
by snow.
	The proposition to establish a company to
engage in the manufacture of brushes, is under


consideration by the 14th Ward Branch of the 
United Order.
	THE LITTLE article entitled "Don't let talent
rust," which appeared in our issue of Novem-
ber first, was a selection, and did not belong to
us.  The EXPONENT being credited with its
orginality was a mistake.
	BRIGHAM CITY appears to take the lead in
this Territory, in finding resources for home-
manufacture of various kinds. Mrs. Mary
Stark of that city, is teaching some of the
young ladies how to make artificial flowers, as
beautiful, so it is said by those who have seen
them, as any imported.
	THE PROVO factory is turning out nine hun-
dred yards of cloth daily at present. Measures
are being taken to procure additional machin-
ery, sufficient to fill the capacity of the build-
ing, when, it is estimated, two thousand yards
of fabric will be produced daily.
	THE ARTICLE entitled "A Home of Our
Own," a portion of which appears in this issue,
although lengthy, is so sensible in every par-
ticular, so truthfully and beautifully written,
and by a Woman too, that we doubt not our
readers will peruse it, as we have done, with
exceeding interest.
	WE HAVE viewed with much pleasure, some
beautiful specimens of wax flowers, made by
pupils of Mrs. Zina Y. Williams. Many of our
young ladies might do well to cultivate the
delicate and pleasing tastes with which they
have been endowed, by learning thus to imitate
the beauties of nature in works of their own
hands. 
	IF THE people of Utah were as bad as reports
from their enemies show, would Governor
Woods venture to trust them to the care of 
other officials, while he goes to San Francisco,
as information from that city shows, to prac-
tice law? How is it, with all their imperfec-
tions, they could not furnish sufficient employ-
ment to keep their gubernatorial friend busy?
	PROFESSOR BARFOOT lately delighted us by
allowing us to inspect a most beautiful speci-
men of scarlet Chromic Acid crystals, which he 
has been making from exhausted telegraphic
liquid, for a lady in New York. An hour might
be pleasantly and profitably spent in our City
Museum by any lover of nature and art; its
collections of pleasing curiosities are continu
ally increasing and now the price of admission
has been reduced to 25 cents.
	MRS. BATHSHEBA W. Smith who journeys
southward, being one of President Young's
party, writes us from Richfield, Sevier Co., un-
der date of Nov. 4th. The company had "held
meetings at Payson, Nephi, Levan, Gunnison,
Salina and Richfield. At which preaching was
done by President George A. Smith, Patriarch
Wm. G. Young, Dr. S. B. Young, Elders A. M.
Musser and Charles W. Smith. The saints are 
prosperous and healthy—crops light—fall sea-
son very favorable for work."
	VIEWING THE commotion into which the en-
tire country has been thrown through the late
victories won by the Democratic party, natur-
ally gives rise to varied reflections in connec-
tion therewith. Many speculations are formed,
and different opinions expressed, but who can
discover the final results? Present indications
may be that for Utah the prospectst are favor-
able, as all the spouting enemies of her people,
who have lately figured conspicuously at Wash-
ington, are on the shipped side, belonging to
the Republican party, But Satan is not yet
subdued, and while he nas power to wage war
with the defenders of truth and justice, the
Saints need not look for a rest of long dura-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN THESE days of general enlightenment,
when the fact that "to err is human" is so
widely understood, a want of charity betrays a
lack of good sense.
	THE OAKLAND "Homestead," Dora Dar-
moore's paper has undergone a complete change,
and appears now in a pretty, new dress, bear-
ing the title of "The Golden Dawn."
	MICHIGAN IS first among the States to sub-
mit to the popular vote a proposition to an-
swer the "Woman Suffrage question" in the
affirmative; and Iowa, not to be far beaten in
generosity, follows closely in the same direc-
tion.
	AT THE late Woman's Congress held in Chi-
cago, no other subject excited so much interest
as did that of Dress Reform. And the reform-
ers are deeply in earnest. Dr. Mary Safford
Blake, who exhibited models in a dress, appeared
on the platform at the congress in a black silk
dress with the skirt untrimmed and short
enough to clear the floor.
	HARD TIMES are increasing for the poor in
New York. Hundreds of families are reported
to be without the necessaries of life, and it is
estimated that ten thousand men and women
in that great city are out of employment. Should
a bread riot ensue, it will be only what might
have been expected.
	THE SMITH sisters, Abby H, and Julia E., of
whom—and their cows—the papers have had
so much to say, have found fault for years
about paying taxes and not being permitted to
vote. They allowed their cows to be sold; and
now they have achieved a grand triumph over
a collector who has been fined for selling some
of their land when he should have levied on
their personal property.


[Column 1]
		A MOTHER'S MISTAKE.
MRS. RICHARDS,
	Dear Sister:—All through the long,
bright Summer and the splendid, golden
Autumn, Ever Thine has been employed as
a country "School Marm," boarding with
Mrs. Blank—Blank, because Ever Thine
has no permission to publish her excellent
hostess' real name. But, parties concerned
raise no objection to my publishing the fol-
lowing personal experiences, as hints
which may prove beneficial to others, placed
in similar circumstances.
	Mrs. Blank has a fine, intellectual daugh-
ter, who has, perhaps, given too much at-
tention to attracting admirers for the last
few years. At any rate, either through the
influence of coquetry or some other power,
she became uncertain which, if either, of a
couple of gentlemen she would prefer as a
life-time companion, when she grew tired
of flirting and concluded to give her atten-
tion to matrimonial interests. And here
arose a grave difficulty between the young
lady and her maternal parent.
	Now, Ever Thine has no intention to
justify the young lady's proceedings, neith-
er does she condemn them for all that is
bad. Every effect has a cause to begin
with. Whatever may have been the occa-
sion of this young lady's mistaken course,
she should have been led into the right
way again, through gentle and kind treat-
ment; and shown her folly as one having
been misguided by circumstances; not as
one willfully wicked or naturally foolish,
for she was neither. All this her good, lov-
ing mother knew when she was brought to
see it. But to begin with, she saw only
that the daughter, on whom she had lav-

[Column 2]
ished great care and tenderness, and of
whom she was very proud, was in error, and
would not understand things for herself as
she understood them for her. And here it
was that the mother's mistake occurred of
which Ever Thine writes.
	It was a sad mistake, and came near prov-
ing a fatal one, that this mother endeavored
by calling her daughter foolish, weak, con-
trary, and like epithets, to convince her that
if she married the man to whom she rather
inclined, she would not be happy. These
matters were freely discussed in the pres-
ence of Ever Thine, and her opinion often
asked by both mother and daughter, partic-
ularly the former.
	At last, Ever Thine said to the perplexed
and anxious mother, that she did not think
the measures she pursued with the young
lady were likely to result in good. Where-
upon Ever Thine was asked to talk to the
girl upon the subject and see what influence
she might have. To this Ever Thine did
not object. She had trod the same miry
path herself, and could heartily sympathize
with the disconsolate young woman, al-
though she saw too, as did the mother, that
the way which the daughter was inclined to
choose could but end in misery. Ever
Thine had often felt that she could put her
arms about the young girl and whisper
words in her ear which would comfort and
strengthen her, and at the same time serve
to throw a clear light upon the subject which
was then misty and dark to her confused
gaze. But until the mother requested it,
Ever Thine had no right to interfere in the 
matter.
	The loneliest, weariest time that can ap-
pear to a lonely, restless mortal, is the hour
of Sabbath twilight. Yet this was the
time first presented to Ever Thine for the
conversation she had promised to seek with
her young friend. And it proved to be a
lucky hour. For no sooner had Ever Thine
drawn the dejected, sorrowing little being
into a warm, sisterly embrace, and spoken
pretty sentences of cheering sympathy and
kindly advice, than her subdued and melt-
ing heart was ready to yield to anything
that experience and calm judgment might
suggest. And Ever Thine had the satisfac-
tion of seeing the young woman happily
married before she left their home. But
this is what Ever Thine would impress up-
on the minds of parents.
	Never speak other than fond and gentle
words to a girl who has been or is likely to
be, in the least, crossed in her love affairs.
Don't call her weak-minded because she is
uncertain how to act when two strong pow-
ers are operating in opposite directions upon
her. Strong men are often weak where love
and women are concerned; why should a 
common place girl be reproached for not
acting always wisely where love and men
are concerned. The nursing infant should 
not be treated with more tenderness than
the girl whose mind has become bewildered
over so delicate an affair as her heart's affec-
tions, even though they may have been
misplaced.			EVER THINE.


RHEUMATISM, &c.—All such disorders as
rheumatism and bodily weakness find a
powerful remedy in the leaves and flow-
ers of the wild sage (Roman wormwood)
mixed with a small quantity of rabbit brush
and hoarhound, steeped in boiling water; a
little salt should be added, and the decoction
applied to the parts affected, with a sufficient
bandage to hold it there till relief is ob-
tained, which, in most cases, occurs after
one or two applications, in one night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			BUILD HIGH.	
	Ye who build on earthly soil
		Build high
	Would you profit by your toil
		By and by,
	Build above the water's deep
		Angry flow,
	Bearing on with mighty sweep
		All below.
	Build not thou upon the sand
		Tis untrue,
	In the storms it will not stand
		Firm to you.
	Ye who live in lifes strange field,
		Live high
	Above the mists that follies yield, 
		Ever high,
	Haunts of vice where passions reign
		With full sway,
	And scenes of crime, of woe and pain
		Cloud the way,
	Live above, yet stoop to raise
		The fallen up
	Help them to walk in better ways,
		To shun the cup
	Teaming with miseries to the brink - 
		Aye flowing o'er,
	Teach them at truth's full fount to drink
		It leaves no sore:
	But calms the soul with care oppressed
		And cheers the way
	On to a brigh eternal rest
		And endless day. 
							HOPE.


[Column 1]﻿
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Boiling.— Rice boiled slowly will swell out
better and not adhere to the kettle. Heat milk
slowly to avoid burning. 
	Milk Cakes.—Take 1 egg and a pint sweet milk;
add buckwheat flour until the batter is rather stiff;
then add 1 teaspoonful yeast powder, a little salt;
bake quickly. If liked very light, add more yeast
powder.
	Buckwheat Cakes.—Scald 1 pint corn meal; when
nearly cold add l pint oat-meal and one of buck-
wheat, a tablespoonful molasses, a little salt, and a
half pint yeast; add water of the same tempera-
ture until a thin batter is made; keep it warm un-
til very light; then bake quickly.
	Mush.— Fill a kettle half full of boiling water;
add salt; when the water boils stir in meal until it
is stiff; then add 1 teacup flour; cook very slowly
half an hour; when cold, slice and roll in flour
and fry, brown in 2 spoonfulls hot lard; or eat
warm, with sugar and butter or sweet milk.
	Cheap Pudding.—Put in a tin pail 2 quarts of
skimmed milk and set it in a kettle of boiling wa-
ter; when very hot, stir into it 1 pint of meal; take
from the fire and add 1 teacup molasses, 1 tea-
spoonful of salt and one of cinnamon; bake in a
buttered cake-pan; use cream sauce, flavored with
nutmeg.
	To Clean Gloves-—Make a thick mucilage by
boiling a little flaxseed, to which add a little dis-
solved soap, and when the mixture cools wipe the
gloves with a piece of white flannel, previously
fitting them to the hand. Use only enough of the
cleansing mixture to take off the dirt without wet-
ting through the glove.	
	Corn Bread.—Take equal quantities of corn
meal and flour (or rye flour) scald the meal by
pouring a little boiling water on it; when nearly
cold add the flour, the same quantity of yeast as
used for other kinds of bread and a little melted
lard and salt; make the dough stiff  and knead it;
put it in a warm place to rise and bake it longer
than other kinds of bread.
	Eggs vs. Meat.—Would it not be wise to sub-
stitute more eggs for meat in our daily diet?
About one-third of the weight of an egg is solid
nutriment. This is more than can be said of meat.
There are no bones or tough pieces that have to be
laid aside. A good egg is made up of ten parts
shell, sixty parts white and thirty parts yolk. The

[Column 2]
white of an egg contains eighty-six per cent water;
the yolk fifty-two per cent. The average weight
of an egg is about two ounces. Practically an egg
is animal food and yet there is none of the disa-
greeable work of the butcher necessary to obtain it.
The vegetarians of England use eggs freely, and
many of these men are eighty and ninety years old
and have been remarkably free from illness. A
good egg is alive. The shell is porous and the
air goes through the shell and keeps up a kind of
respiration. An egg soon becomes stale in bad
air or in dry air charged with carbonic acid. Eggs
may be dried and made to retain their goodness for
a long time, or the shell may be varnished, which
excludes the air, when, if kept in a moderate tem-
perature; they may be kept fresh for years. Fresh
eggs are more transparent at the center, old ones
on the top. Very old ones are not transparent in
either place. In water in which one-tenth of salt
has been dissolved, good eggs sink and indifferent
ones swim. Bad eggs float in pure water. The
best eggs are laid by young, healthy hens. If
they are properly fed the eggs are better than if
they are allowed to eat all kinds of food. Eggs
are best when cooked four minutes. This takes
away the animal taste that is offensive to some,
but does not so harden the white or yolk as to
make them hard to digest. An egg if cooked very
hard is difficult of digestion, except by those with
stout stomachs; such eggs should be eaten with
bread and masticated very finely. An excellent
sandwich can be made with eggs and brown bread.
An egg spread on toast is food fit for a king, if
kings deserve any better food than anybody else,
which is doubtful. Fried eggs are less whole-
some than boiled ones. An egg dropped in hot
water is not only a clean and handsome but a de-
licious morsel. Most people spoil the taste of
their eggs by adding pepper and salt. A little
sweet butter is the best dressing. Eggs contain
much phosphorus, which is supposed to be useful
to those who use their brains much.—Poultry Re-
view.


ADDRESS
TO THE YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCHMENT
		ASSOCIATION IN BEAVER.

	         BY MRS. L. B. PRATT. 

	My Dear Young Friends:—I have desired
to address you on this occasion, because I
feel my heart swell with interest for your
well being in all time to come. Many wise
instructions and sanitary counsels have you
received in this house, from those who have
a watch care over you, and from our honored
leaders who preside over this branch of the
Church of which you are members. Shield-
ed as you are by such protecting care, it
seems natural to suppose that there would
be no danger that you could be led astray;
neither is there any while you watch and
pray for yourselves; but remember the
tempter is always nigh, and will seek the
opportune moment to spread out his snares;
and his specious appearance is so alluring
that the most innocent will sometimes, in
an unguarded moment, lend a listening ear,
and find her mind involved. Oh! what a
blessing to a young girl, to have a careful,
watchful mother! and how blessed is the
daughter who will on all important occasions
seek her mother's counsel. When I look
back on my long life, I can recall many cir-
cumstances which came under my imme-
diate observation, wherein some beautiful
life was wrecked, through mere condescen-
sion and sympathy; I will relate one in-
stance.
	A pure-minded young girl who had been
carefully reared by religious parents, a sweet
tempered, amiable, obedient girl who loved
all good, and loved God with a perfect
heart, went to teach school in a district re-

[Column 2]
mote from the village where she had been
reared. She took boarding in a family
where were a number of young men and
women, brothers and sisters. The young
men were clever in business, active and en-
terprising. The whole family were rough
and unrefined, cared nothing about religion.
The daughters were more susceptible of cul-
tivation and improvement in mind and
manners. The new teacher was the pride
of the house. They felt a holy reverence
in her presence. One of the young men
immediately made love to her; he could be
anything for her sake; he could go every
Sabbath to public worship, leave off his pro-
fanity which he had practiced from child-
hood; whiskey and tobacco were repudiated
as obnoxious and proscriptive. Surely, the
humble girl thought, a soul was saved in the 
redemption of this young man. She went
to her revered father and mother to ask
their consent to marry him. Her mother,
less penetrating and observant of human
character than the father, was more inclined
to trust her daughter's judgment; but her
father, filled with wisdom and understand-
ing, knowing the origin of the family, set
his right foot heavily on the floor, replied
with great emphasis, "my daughter, do you
not know, that light and darkness cannot
dwell together?" he would not give his con-
sent. The daughter went back with a firm
resolve to break the intimacy; but alas!
how feeble were her resolves. Her lover
was not to be trifled with. He solemnly
protested she should be his, or he would
hang himself some night before her door,
and she should forever bear the blame.
She had not power to resist his entreaties,
and threatenings, and so they were married.
Six months had scarcely passed away, till
she saw her hopes of a new life in the man
she had wedded, all blown to the four winds;
his old nature was still there, as unlike hers
as the wolf and lamb are unlike.
	Years passed away, and she had grown
daughters when I knew them. Her sister
in telling me the tale of the young girl's
woe, wept with as much apparent anguish,
as though she had stood gazing upon her
lifeless form, clad in the habiliments of the
grave. The poor woman at length rose
abover her sorrows, left her gross companion,
and lived with a good and loving daughter.
Her whole being seemed consecrated to the
love of God. If any woman was ever puri-
fied by affliction, and made perfect through 
suffering, that one truly was. Dearly did
she pay for disobeying her father.
	Another instance I will relate to show a
striking contrast. I knew a little girl in
Salt Lake City, many years ago. She was
good and gentle, loving and humble like
the one above described. She was an un-
derstanding child, loved the gospel, and
clave to her mother with great devotion,
her father having died in her infancy.
Years rolled away, she grew to be a woman
and was married ere I met her again and
learned her history. Her mother told me
how true and faithful she had been to her in
all her trials (which had been many,) how
true to God and her religion! She told me
herself how in her early life she had re-
solved never to encourage the attentions of
any gentleman with whom her mother was
not pleased, she said, "I knew I never
could be happy with any one, of whom my
mother did not approve. So when a gen-
tleman called to see me, I would notice par-
ticularly whether 'ma' seemed favorably
impressed with his conversation and gen-
eral deportment; if she did not, I would
give no encouragement." At length one
came, who pleased them both, he was firm


in the gospel, good, and agreeable she was
married to him when she was eighteen
years of age. He was son-like towards her
mother; so she was made happy through her
obedience, without being compelled to pass
through the scathing fires like the other
poor girl.
	Do you not, my young friends, see plainly
that "obedience is better than sacrifice?"
The scriptures have declared it, and here
you have  illustrated. I congratulate you
on having such a shield thrown around you:
be thankful for wise and judicious parents:
in yielding your wills to their direction you
will please both them and your Father in
heaven. Sometime in the future I will ad-
dress you on the laws of health, if you de-
sire it, and on social habits. Keep this
maxim always fresh in your mind. "Wis-
dom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth
darkness."
			H. S. SHEPHERD. Secretary.
	BEAVER, Nov. 6th, 1874.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿NEW YORK WOMEN JOURNALISTS.

	The following sketches of women journal-
ists of New York city, appeared some
months ago in the Cincinnati "Chronicle and
Times." Since then a number of women
writers have made themselves famous, as
journalists in that metropolis both as pro-
prietors and editors, which are not included
in these sketches:
	The number of women who figure on the
metropolitan press may no longer be count-
ed. Among the daily journals, at least,
their name is legion, and not a few of the 
most influential weeklies own much of their
interest to the sprightly characteristics of
the feminine pen. In this department, if
in no other, woman stands the acknow-
ledged equal of her masculine contempora-
ries; and the only question which affects
her advancement in any branch of the pro-
fession is her fitness for the duties of that
branch. Hence we see Middy Morgan, in 
her coarse boots and short skirts, plodding
through the mire of the city stock-yards as
stock editor of the "Times," while the
charming little widow of a "Herald" re-
porter takes up her husband's pen just
where he lays it down, and carries out his
unfinished programme with as much exacti-
tude as if she had been all her life accus-
tomed to the work. One of the strongest
and most indefatigable writers on the "Star"
is a Shepardess. It is said that the only re-
deeming quality in the columns of the
"Sun" is what flows from the modifying
quills of two women.
	Miss Booth, of Harper's "Bazar," needs
no introduction. Not only as an editor has
her name become familiar to the literary
world. Mary L. Booth first distinguished
herself as a historian and translator, and
for many years confined herself almost ex-
clusively to those two departments; but
since '67, when she was placed at the head
of the "Bazar," she has contributed greatly
by her rare taste and discrimination toward
making that journal one of the most excel-
lent of its class. Her yearly salary of four
thousand dollars attests the high estimate
of her services by Harper Brothers, though
it by no means limits the annual income or
this industrious woman. Her brain and
pen are ever busy; and notwithstanding her
regular newspaper duties the work of the
translator and chronicler still goes on.
	Another well-known name in the same
department is that of "Jennie June," wife
of D. G. Croly, managing editor of the 
"World," and the controlling spirit in
"Demorest's Monthly." Mrs. Croly's con-

[Column 2]
nection with the New York press probably
dates further back than that of any other
woman so engaged at present. She discov-
ered her literary powers very early in life,
and readily learned to put them to profita-
ble use; at a time, too, when men, the most
appreciative and kindly disposed, were in-
clined to ridicule the idea of woman's fit-
ness for any branch of journalism. She
was first engaged on the "Times," but on 
the establishment of "Demorest's Monthly"
the enterprising proprietors of that periodi-
cal offered her a larger salary, and enticed
her away to the sanctum of fashion. There
she has remained over since; and from
there have gone forth the thousands of 
mainifold letters which have made her nom
de plume a household name throughout the
land. This system of correspondence was
orginated by "Jennie June," and proved
to be one of the happy hits of her literary
career. Beginning, of course, on a small
scale, she gradually won her way as an au-
thority on questions of dress, till before
many years nearly every prominent journal
in the country was glad to boast of "Jennie
June" as its fashion contributor; and to-day
that branch of her work alone realizes to
its projector a handsome income. At one
time she prepared and dispatched every
one of these letters herself, but long since
she delegated that unenviable task to a
competent clerk, contenting herself with
merely dictating the form, and afterward
appropriating the greenback returns, minus
a certain percentage.
	Scarcely less known than Mrs. Croly; or
less popular, is Mary Clemmer Ames, of the
"Independent." Mrs. Ames is somewhat
more versatile in her talents, and has alter-
nately filled almost every department of
journalism. Besides being an able prose
writer, this lady is also a poetess, and of 
late years some of her finest literary efforts
have been in a poetic vein. While a mere
school girl, "M. C. A." began to use her pen
as press correspondent, making the Spring-
field "Republican" her first field of exploit.
But at that time she wrote at rare intervals,
and solely for the "fun" of seeing her name
in print. It was not until a much later pe-
riod that she took up her pen in earnest,
and her regular connection with the New
York press began only in '65. From that 
time probably dates her introduction to the
literary world. As a Washington corres-
pondent she became suddenly very popular.
Her style was tinctured with warmth, dis-
crimination, pleasantry and sound common
sense. People learned to regard her as re-
liable as well as entertaining, and "A Wo-
man's Letter from Washington" was never
without its complement of admiring read-
ers. For the past two years Mrs. Ames has
been attached to the editorial corps of the 
"Independent," having, in addition, a cer-
tain amount of regular work on the Brook-
lyn "Union." Her salary is now upwards
of $5,000 a year.
	The only woman employed on the staff of
the New York "Herald" is Mrs. Butts, a
brilliant and painstaking journalist. The
husband of this lady was formerly connect-
ed with the same sheet, and, after his 
death, she made application for piece work,
which was cheerfully furnished her. Her
thoroughness, dispatch and unusual intel-
lectuality were the subjects of constant
comment by those whose business it is to
look out for talent, and the result was an in-
vitation to join the staff. In reviewing the
past, she says of herself:
	"I thank, Heaven that I know how to
work. Should anything happen to my lit-
erary prospects, I could make my living as a
dressmaker, milliner, seamstress, house-

[Column 3]
keeper, cook or laundress. I have done my
own housework, and gloried in it: have
made my husband's shirts, and washed and
ironed tnem; not only because I could really
do them better than a professional laun-
dress, but in order to eke out a reporter's
meagre salary!"
	Mrs. Mary E. Dodge is one of our most
successful literary workers, and shows what
a woman can do in literature. She is the
daughter of the well-known Prof. Mapes,
inventor of the fertilizers, and owns part of
the latter's farm, two miles from Newark,
which is under the management of P. T.
Quinn, formerly agricultural editor of the
"Tribune" and author of several books on
farming. Mrs. Dodge has a salary of $3,000
from "Hearth and Home" for writing exclu-
sively for that journal. She excels particu-
larly as a writer of children's stories, and
combines acburacy of fact with beauty of
style. Her story of Hans Brinker shows
great care and study, and gives a vivid pic-
ture of Dutch life and adventure. Mrs.
Dodge, though the mother of two boys,
whom she supports at college, is young,
handsome and lively as a girl of twenty, and
is excellent company.


FOR WIVES.
	In domestic happiness the wife's influ-
ence is much better than the husband's; for
the one, the first cause, mutual love and
confidence being granted, the whole comfort
of the household depends upon trifles more
immediately dependent upon her jurisdic-
tion. By her management of small sums
her husband's respectability and credit are
created or destroyed. No fortune can stand
the leakage of extravagancies and misman-
agement; and more is spent in trifles than
women would easily believe. The one great
expense, whatever it may be, is turned
over and carefully reflected on ere incurred;
the income is prepared to meet it; but it is
pennies imperceptibly sliding away which
do mischief; and this the wife alone can
stop, for it does not come within a man's
province. There is often an unsuspected
trifle to be saved in every household. It is
not in economy alone, however, that the
wife's attention is so necessary, but in those
niceties which make a well regulated house.
An unfurnished cruet stand, a missing key,
a buttonless shirt, a soiled tablecloth, a
mustard-pot with its old contents shaken
hard and down about it, are really nothing;
but each can raise angry words and cause
discomfort. Depend upon it, there is a good
deal of domestic happiness about a well-
dressed mutton-chop or a tidy breakfast-ta-
ble. Men grow sated of beauty, tired of
music, and are often wearied of conversa-
tion, however intellectual; but they can al-
ways appreciate a well-swept hearth and
smiling comforts.


MISS Martha Hempstead recently died in
Waterford, Conn., aged nearly ninety-one.
She was a daughter of Mary Bill, of Groton,
whom every schoolboy knows as the revolu-
tionary heroine who said to her husband on
his way to war: "John, do not get shot in
the back!" Among the antiquities belong-
ing to Miss Hempstead, was the oldest watch
in New London County, which members of
the Legislature used to borrow during the
sessions in a time when watches were much 
less common than now.


ELLEN J. Fitzgerald was burned to death
at Taunton, Mass., the other day. Her
dress caught fire from the kitchen stove.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	STICKING SALVE;—3lbs of resin; 1/2lb bur-
gundy pitch; 1/2lb beeswax; 1/2lb mutton  tal-
low.
	TOOTHACHE REMEDY.—It is affirmed
that the worst toothache, or neuralgia com-
ing from the teeth, may be speedily and de-
lightfully ended by the application of a 
small bit of clean cotton saturated in a strong
solution of ammonia to the defective teeth.
	A GOOD REMEDY FOR COUGH.—Take a
handful of hops, and put it into three pints
of hot water; let it boil half an hour or un-
til the strength is out. Then strain and add
one and a half cups of best kind of molas-
ses, and one cup of white sugar; boil down
slowly in a bright dish, or enameled kettle,
to about a quart. Then bottle up, and it is
ready for use. Drink a little when you
cough.
	ANOTHER CURE FOR DEAFNESS.—It is
said that oil of the prickly pear (cactus) will
cure deafness.
	The oil is obtained by taking the cactus,
stalks and leaves, when thoroughly ripe, and
cutting them fine and putting them in a
bottle, corked tight; then enclose the bottle
in dough, and bake it slowly in an oven or
stove; this process extracts the oil.
	The oil is to be applied to the ear with a
small feather. A few applications generally
cures.
	A CURE FOR CONSUMPTION.—A corres
pondent writes as follows about the sanitary
powers of a well-known plant; "I have dis-
covered a remedy for pulmonary consump-
tion. It has cured a number of cases after 
they had commenced bleeding at the lungs
and the hectic flush was already on the
cheek. After trying this remedy to my
own satisfaction, I have thought that philan-
thropy required that I should let it be known
to the world. It is the common mullen,
steeped strong and sweetened with coffee
sugar, and drank freely. The herb should
be gathered before the end of July, if con-
venient. Young or old plants are good
dried in the shade and kept in clean paper
bags. The medicine must be continued
from three to six months, according to the
nature of the disease. It is good for the
blood vessels also. It strengthens the sys-
tem and builds up, instead of taking away
strength. It makes good blood, and takes
inflammation from the lungs. It is the wish
of the writer that every periodical in the
United States, Canada and Europe should
publish this receipt for the benefit of the
human family. Lay this up and keep in
the house ready for use."
	WET AND DRY BATHING.—If any one in
these days will exercise in the open air, so
that each day he will perspire moderately,
and if he will wear thin under-garments, or
none at all, and sleep in a cold room, the
functions of the skin will suffer little or no
impediment, if water is withheld for
months. Indeed, bathing is not the only
way in which its healthful action can be
maintained by those living under the con-
ditions at present existing. Dry friction
over the whole surface of the body, once a
day, or once in two days, is often of more
service than the application of water.
	The reply of the centarian, to the inquiry
to what habit of life he attributed his good
health and extreme longevity, that he be-
lieved it due to "rubbing himself all over
with a cob every night," is significant of an
important truth. If invalids and persons of
low vitality would use dry friction and Dr.
Franklin's "air bath," every day for a con-

[Column 2]
siderable period, we are confident they
would often be greatly benefitted. Cleanli-
ness is next to godliness, no doubt, and a
proper and judicious use of water is to be
commended; but human beings are not
amphibious. Nature indicates, that the
functions of the skin should be kept in or-
der mainly by muscular exercise, by excit-
ing natural perspiration by labor; and, deli-
cious as is the bath, and healthful, under
proper regulation, it is no substitute for that
exercise of the body without which all the
functions become abnormal.—Dr. Nichol.


READING.
Dear Exponent:—
	This is essentially a reading age, and
Zion's children are not one whit behind
their worldly neighbors in this respect, es-
pecially her daughters. Our girls who are
growing up to womanhood, as a rule have
more or less spare time, which hangs heavy
on their hands. Therefore they take to
reading to while away the tedium of the
hour. But what is the nature of the read-
ing which they indulge in? Let us select
one of those fair daughters of Zion who is
at the time literally buried in books and pe-
riodicals. One from whose physique, per-
sonal appearance and native charms, under
a correct and pure culture might ennoble
her to grace and ornament any position in
society, and view what engrosses her atten-
tion. What a revulsion do our feelings
undergo, not at the sight of Bible, Book of
Mormon, "Juvenile Instructor," Woman's
Exponent and such like wishy washy com-
pilations. But hark! listen to the array of
literary gems which burst with dazzling
brilliancy upon our vision. Scintillations of
genius, not flashing at stated intervals like
meteors amid the heavens, but filling every
nook and corner from cellar to attic in the
vilest hovels in the land. Home Circles,
Literary Companions, Ledgers, Day's Do-
ings, Fireside Friends, &c. Sisters, pause,
reflect, consider. Ask yourselves the ques-
tion does the perusal of this "Home Circle"
which our Eastern friends (Heaven save the
mark) supply, tend to increase the happi-
ness of our own tangible "home circle?"
Does it fit and prepare us for the stern reali-
ties of life to which, as Saints of the Most
High, we should look forward? What is
the use of mincing matters? Does it in the
least prepare us to become mothers in Israel?
which should be one of our highest aims in
this world. Will it enable us to train those
miniatures of men and women which our
Heavenly Father may entrust to our care?
Or does it not fill us with romantic feelings
removed millions of miles above those and
other domestic duties which must necessa-
rily fall to our lot?
	Do our "Evening Posts" keep us posted
in the things which tend to improve our
mental or intellectual stature, teaching
us the things which will prove benefi
cial to us here and hereafter? Or is it
as the opium eater who by a course of
debauchery renders himself an imbecile
both in mind and body? Yea, disguise it
as we may, the awful truth stares us in the
face, that we are rapidly drifting towards
that God-forsaken state, when stimulants
are required to keep us from losing our men-
tal equilibrium. What could be more hor-
rible to contemplate! rational, reasoning
beings, the counterpart of their maker in
such a predicament! having a semblance
of God's creatures but utterly incapable of
filling the responsible positions required of
such. Not on account of the niggardly
hand of nature, but through a false course
of training. Like the pampered epicure,
the confirmed novel reader, when the
slightest break occurs in the stream of in-
toxicating fiction cries, Oh! give me some-
thing to supply the cravings of my appe-
tite. Present that to their vitiated appetites
which would prove wholesome, solid and
substantial food for the mind in a healthy
condition, and it is repulsed with scorn and
loathing. Who is going to remedy this
growing giant of evil in our midst? Will
preaching do it? Nay, or it would have
been accomplished years ago. Sisters this
is a home task and each one for herself or it
never will be accomplished. Therefore
weigh well what has been taught you in
this respect. Consider those your friends
who have the hardihood to tell you that
the course you are pursuing is an erroneous
one. Be up and alive to your duties, rather
have your name appear on the credit list of
your Heavenly Father's Ledger than on
that of our "New York friends." Harken
not to the sophisms of those whose gain it
is to supply you with these death diffusing
decoctions. Give the wholesome viands a
trial and rejoice ever after, as living reali-
ties; thanking God for your deliverance
from under the enthralling, debasing influ-
ence of fiction.			W. K. REID
	Manti, Sanpete Co., U. T.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS

Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.

		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
	FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP CORNER.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-

tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies

to purchase.

				CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4		 48.00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.


Woman's Exponent.
