Vol. 3.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1875		No. 16


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE REAL winter in this valley did not
set in until January; and now the question
arises, will it stretch out till the latter end
of May?
	THE DIABOLICAL practice of lynching, or
hanging men upon suspicion of crime, was
last fall perpetrated upon a son of ex-Gover-
nor Ford of Illinois. A friend of the EXPO-
NENT sends us an account of the affair, taken
from the Iowa “State Journal,” the particu-
lars of which, were recently published in
the daily papers of Utah. We are not now
prepared to comment on the subject, and
have not space for details.


[Column 1]
	FOR THE YOUNG LADIES.
BY MARY STUART, OF THE RICHMOND
RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION.

	In attempting to speak in behalf of our
Young Ladies' Society, I will endeavor to
portray the feelings of all. Should I, per-
chance, say aught they can not approve, I
trust it will be overlooked.
	My subject shall be what we have been in
the past and what we wish to be in the fu-
ture.
	Let memory carry us back say five or ten
years, or as long as we can remember, and
it will readily be seen how often we have
missed the mark. How and for what has
been spent, a great portion of our past life.
We have been too careless, too idle, too in-
different in regard to everything that might
have proved a lasting benefit had we shown
ourselves more attentive. In stolid igno-
rance of the great and important duties as-
signed us by the Author of our existence,
we have let pass the months and years with- 
out even a struggle to gain the knowledge
now so much coveted.
	How many hours have been wasted. How
many days allowed to sink into oblivion, in
which much might have been added to our
store of information. As it is, it can only
be said they are lost days, lost hours to us,
for in them no good was accomplished. Bet-
ter far better that we had never lived them
than to have to say God gave us time to
learn but we would not and squandered it
not thinking nor caring why he gave that
precious time. Can it not be understood
that we will be held accountable for this
useless waste of life?
	In the future, we wish to become great,
good and noble. Not to gain the admiration
of worldly-minded beings, but of God who
never respects the unworthy. The aim is
to spread sunshine and not shade. To help
those who are in need, not merely to pity
them. To promote the welfare of all man-
kind, with disinterested and truly unselfish
motives, thus securing happiness for our-
selves while making others happy.
	Many do not seem to understand the good
to be derived from meeting together and ex-
changing ideas with each other. Nor do
they comprehend retrenchment in its true
sense, and it may be well to say a few words
on this subject. We are organized in a re-
trenchment or mutual improvement society,
it matters not by which we are called. Such

[Column 2]
ested, if it is properly carried on. We do
a society cannot fail to benefit those inter-
not wish to be too strict all at once, lest we
frighten our young friends away at the on-
set. And it is our belief that when fully
entered into, the spirit of our high and holy
calling as daughters of a Heavenly Parent,
the wisdom we then possess will teach us
what to wear and how to wear it. By Heav-
en-born authority we have been forbidden
to follow the foolish and downward leading
fashions of Babylon, and it is according to
our professions to appear in neat and plain
attire. Still we are equally obliged to for-
sake many other things, to give envy and
avarice no place in our hearts, shun every
appearance of evil and not barter our souls
for the fading things of life, but cling to the
principles of right and justice. Thus ren-
dering ourselves worthy the society of the
good on earth, and to dwell with God and
His angels in the world to come.


[Column 1]
		﻿WOMAN'S RECORD
	CHARLOTTE Cushman has cancelled her
San Francisco engagement.
	MISS Carrie Clark, daughter of Henry S.
Clark, lately deceased, has been appointed
express agent in Northampton, Mass.
	THE Empress of Prussia wore in Paris a
crimson velvet cloak lined with rare Russian
sable, and worth twenty thousand dollars.
	Miss Wilson recently realized $6,400 by a
performance in St. Petersburg for the bene-
fit of some families who were made, home-
less by a fire.
	MRS. Annie Mixsell of Orange, N. J., has
accepted an engagement as soprano in Dr.
Conkling's choir, New York, at a salary of
$1,000 per annum.
	MRS. Elizabeth Haldeman, mother of W.
N. Haldeman, one of the proprietors of the
Courier-Journal, died at Louisville, Dec. 27,
in her 84th year.
	THE real name of "Susan Coolidge," a
pleasant Eastern writer for children's peru-
sal, is Miss Sarah C. Woolsey, and she is a
niece of ex-President Woolsey, of Yale Col-
lege.
	MRS. Rousby, a young woman even more
beautiful and more given to wardrobes and
jewelry than Mrs, Scott-Sidons or Adelaide
Neilson, has arrived from England to star it
on the American stage.
	MISS Nancy Monell, of St. Johns, gradua-
ted at a medical institute in New York, and
is now Superintendent of a large hospital at
Lucknow, India, at a salary of $5,000 per
year, and all expenses paid.
	MISS Lipscombe has just been appointed
by the English Registrar-General to the office
of Registrar in one of the sub-districts at
Worcester. This is the first time this office
has been given to a woman in England.
	MRS. Senator Schurz, a woman who is
better informed, and, therefore, more en-
thusiastic on this subject than almost any
person in this country, ardently desires to
be enfranchised. She believes it criminal
in men to refuse it.

[Column 2]
	MRS. D. Chamberlain, an old resident of
Westborough, Mass., was one of the original
band of missionaries that went to the Hawa-
iian Islands fifty-five years ago, when the in-
habitants were savages. Mrs. Chamberlain
is in her eighty-eighth year, and she retains
her mental faculties to a remarkable degree.
She speaks the Hawaiian tongue fluently.
An inivtation to visit Westborough has been
extended to the King Kalakaua to meet this
aged lady.
	MARIE Antoinette was the originator of
the "claque" at Paris. On the occasion of the
first performance of "Alceste," by Gluck,
who was highly esteemed by the queen,
Marie Antoinette, in order to secure the suc-
cess of the opera, distributed a large num-
ber of courtiers all over the theater among
the public, with the order to applaud in pro-
per places. The managers of the opera
house found this mode of securing success
very practicable, and organized a duly paid
band of claques for the purpose.	MISS Jennie Worthington of New Orleans,
principal of the High School, protested ear-
nestly against the expulsion of her colored
scholars. She declared her inability to face
her scholars and do so mean a thing, saying,
"How can I order that bright-eyed little fel-
low never to return to this school?" pointing
to an intelligent looking boy of twelve years
of age, who was one of her smartest and
best scholars. The superintendent relieved
her of the embarrassment. The little fel-
low, with tears in his eyes, begged to re-
main. Again and again he walked back to
his seat, hugged his books tightly, and wept
as if his little heart would break.


TIME THE GREAT HEALER.

	Time heals all griefs, even the bitterest,
and it is well that it should be so. A long-
indulged sorrow for the dead, or any other
hopeless loss, would deaden our sympathies
for those still left, and thus make a sinful
apathy steal over the soul, absorbing all its
powers, and causing the many blessings of
life to be felt as curses. As the bosom of
earth blooms again and again, having buried
out of sight the dead leaves of autumn, and
loosed the frosty bands of winter, so does
the heart—in spite of all that melancholy
poets write—feel many renewed springs and
summers. It is a beautiful and blessed world
we live in, and, while life lasts, to lose the
enjoyment of it is a sin.


ALMOST AN ENOCH ARDEN.—A lady who
resides upon Central street, and who is well
known in that section, narrowly escaped
having two husbands to care for last night.
She had grown tired of being alone in the
world and had accepted the proposal of a
steady mechanic to become his wife. The
wedding was appointed last evening, friends
were invited and a clergyman secured, and
the ceremony was about to commence, when
the door opened and in walked a former
husband of the lady, who years ago disap-
peared from the knowledge of his young
wife, and has since been "sailing the wide
seas over" in search of her. The wedding
was postponed.—Mirror, 20th.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


RESPONSIVE.
	Respectfully to Lu Dalton.
			(Exponent, Dec. 15th, 1874.)
That wealth is worth more for the earning,
	And rubies more precious and rare
When counting the cost of the winning—
	Of this I am fully aware.
And also that men in old Babylon
	Are guilty of luring their prey,
And then with scorn and derision
	Will ruthlessly cast it away.
But that men who are holding the Priesthood,
	Pretending its teachings to heed,
To find these so utterly hearteless,
	Would be a sad lesson indeed!
I fondly had hoped for a dawning
	Of innocence, happy and bright,
When man in his strength and his wisdom
	Would strive to be guided by right.
Oh! man is thine heart then so fickle!
	So prone this grand error to make,
As to spurn a true heart's devotion
	And follow a myth in its wake! 
Canst.thou value but dearly brought treasures?
	Is Heaven but craved through the fall?
If this is thy standard of action
	I scarcely dare trust thee at all?
Yet still, (must I own it?) there lingers
	Far down in the depths of my heart,
An ideal man true and noble,
	Who scorneth the recreant's part.
A man who is shield and protector,
	A counselor, monitor, friend,
Who loveth a Woman as Woman,
	And not as a means to an end.
Dec. 27th, 1874.					Queery.


R. S. REPORTS

	On the 7th inst. the Relief Society of the
Eighth War held their annual meeting—
which should, properly have been held on
the 23rd of December, but was postponed
on account of sickness among the officers.
	There were present besides the usual at-
tendance of members of the Society, Bp.
Sheets and Counselor Brockbank; also Sis-
ters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne, Z. D. Young,
P. Woodruff, and L. Greene Richards. Af-
ter the usual preliminaries of opening and
the reading of the annual reports—which
were very satisfactory—the meeting was ad-
dressed by each one of the above named
bretheren and sisters. President Mrs. Mary
A. Leaver then arose and said that although
the afternoon was far spent, and the time
had been occupied in a manner most grati-
fying to herself and instructive and inter-
esting, she was sure, to all present, she
wished to add a few words in favor of her
sisters in the Ward, and for their encour-
agement. She had found those associated
with her in the Society, always on hand to
do whatever duty required, for which she
felt to thank them. She also felt thankful
that they had a Bishop who was willing to
counsel with them, and render assistance by
way of advice or whatever was needed.
The sisters had mostly come to see the ne-
cessity of retrenching in many ways. She
saw no new hats or bonnets worn among
them this winter; they were wearing
their old ones, some of them had been
trimmed up and made over, but were not
new. This she considered creditable to the
Society. An Industrial Society had been
partially organized in the Ward, they were
soon to hold another meeting to complete
the organization; after which they intended
to produce and prepare for use, everything
as far as possible, which they should con-
sume. After thanking the cisitor for
meeting with the Society and giving in-
structions and encouragement, Sister Leab-
er concluded her remarks, the choir sang
"Beautiful Home," meeting adjourned and
was dismissed with prayer by Bishop
Sheets.


[Column 1]
		"WOMAN'S RIGHTS."

	Do I believe in woman's rights? Yes,
I believe in them in many ways besides that
of voting. But in the first place, I solemnly
protest against womans being judged, con-
demned and punished according to the laws
that she has had no hand in making. In-
deed I think there is great need of a revo-
lution in the sentiments of both men and wo-
men as well as laws. We frequently read in
the newspapers of the day, of one man run-
ing away with another man's wife. In a late
case of this kind, after a few weeks of sin-
ful pleasure, the runaways got sick of their
folly and returned to their families. In the
evening the returned gentleman was seen
riding out with his wife. His friends con-
gratulated him on his return, and pittied
him "poor fellow," for being led away by
that bad, bold woman. It was not his fault,
and his wife ought to be proud of such a
nice honorable man for her husband, if she
was a virtuous woman. But how was it
with the woman whom he had seduced
away from her home? Was she taken back
to her family? No! She was not fit for the
companionship of innocent babes, and the
bosom of her noble husband. Oh dear!—
no! He would get a divorce and turn her
out to infamy and a life of shame. For now,
who would befriend her? She was only a
woman; therefore she had no right to ex-
pect any mercy.
	True, the law of Moses provided for such
cases as the above, that the guilty parties
should be stoned to death. I should have
no objection to such a law now, as long as they
were to stone the man as well as the woman.
But it seems that eighteen hundred years ago
the world was as bad as it is now. For then
they brought a woman before Jesus saying,
Master, this woman was caught in the act of
adultry; what shall he done with her? What
sayest thou? And Jesus said to them, "he
that is without sin among you, let him first
cast a stone at her." And they which heard
it, being convicted by their own conscien-
ces, went out one by one beginning at the
eldest unto the last, and Jesus was left alone
and the woman standing in the midst.
When Jesus saw that the woman was left
alone, he said unto her, "woman hath no man
condemned thee?" And she said "No man,
Lord." And he said "Neither do I con-
demn thee; go and sin no more."
	I remember some years ago while riding
home with some neighbors after an after-
noon conference, some remarks were made
about President Young's teachings in re-
gard to the treatment of the Elders to their
wives. The driver of the wagon who was
an Elder, said, "Do you think I would ever
ask forgiveness of a woman! I answered
him, "If you should do your wife an injury,
would you not rather ask her forgivness,
than let the feeling created by the wrong
she had suffered rankle in her breast against
you? “No! never would I stoop so low as
to ask forgiveness of any woman!"
	I presume many if not all, who read this
article, have heard similar expressions from
similar ignorant men. Now I would ask,
what is there in man that he should consid-
er himself so much better than his better-
half! If he sprang from the Deity, did not
woman also? If he is made of mettle like
that the Gods are made of, is not woman
made of the same? If he came from his
Father's loins, and was nurtured upon his
Mother's lap, what other place did his sis-
ter come from that she should be accounted
so inferior to him? If the Lord had a pur-
pose in creating the male part of humanity,
had he not equally as good a purpose in cre-
ating the female part also? Or did He make

[Column2]
her simply to bear the faults of man?
	I know we are taught that Eve was the
first to sin. Well, she was simply more
progressive than Adam. She did not want
to live in the beautiful garden for ever, and
be nobody—not able even to make her own
aprons.						E. N. B.
	Ogden.


FLORAL HINTS.

	A TABLESPOONFUL of guano in a gallon
of soft water, administered once in three or
four weeks, is an excellent fertilizer for
house plants.
	FLOWERS in winter time are cheap luxu-
ries. Now is the time to start a few bulbs
for winter bloom in room and windows.
Write to a seedsman for a catalouge which
will inform you all about management, va-
rieties, prices, etc., and then try a little—or
much, as you may incline—indoor winter
gardening.
	A CORRESPONDENT of the Boston Tran-
script gives the following way of preserv-
ing autumn leaves, vis.: Iron them fresh
with a warm (not hot) iron on which some
spermaceti has been lightly rubbed. This
method preserves perfectly their lovely
tints and gives a waxy gloss which no other
one secures. The process is very rapid and
very agreeable, and no lady who ever tried
the tedious and uncertain experiment of
pressing will ever again resort to it after
once trying this new and better way.


A SPLENDID DESCRIPTION.

	On a certain occasion one Paul Denton, a
Methodist preacher in Texas, advertised a bar-
becue, with better liquor than is usually fur-
nished. When the people had assembled, a
desperado in the crowd cried out:
	"Mr. Paul Denton, your reverence has lied.
You promised not only a good barbecue, but
better liquor. Where's the liquor?"
	“There!” answered the missionary, in tones
of thunder, and pointing his long, bony finger
at the matchless double spring gushing up in
two strong columns with a sound like a shout
of joy from the bosom of the earth. "There!"
he repeated, with a look terrible as lightning,
while his enemy fairly trembled at his feet;
"there is the liquor which the God Eternal
brews for all his children. Not in the simmer-
ing still, over smoky fires choked with poison-
ous gases, and surrounded with the stench of
sickening odors and corruption, doth your
Father in Heaven prepare the precious essence
of life—pure cold water. But in the glade and
grassy dell; where the deer wander and the
child loves to play, there God brews it; and
down in the deepest valleys, where the foun-
tain murmurs and the rills sing; and high up
on the mountain tops, where the granite
glitters like gold in the sun, where the storms
crash; and out on the wild, wild sea, where
the hurricane howls music, and the big waves
roar chorus; sweeping in the march of God—
there he brews it—the beverage of life, health-
giving water. And everywhere it is a thing of
beauty—gleaming in the dew-drop, singing in
the summer rain, shining in the ice gems, till
they seem turned to living jewels, spreading a
golden veil over the setting sun, or a white
gauze around the midnight moon; sporting in
the cataract, sleeping in the glazier, dancing
in the hail shower, folding its bright curtains
softly around the wintry world, and weaving
the many-colored iris, the seraph's zone of the
air; whose warp is in the rain-drops of the
earth, and whose woof is in the sunbeams of
Heaven, all checkered over with the celestial
flowers of the mystic hand of refraction—that
blessed, life-water. No poison bubbles on its
brink; its foam brings not madness and mur-
der; no blood stains its liquid glass, pale widows
and starving children weep not burning tears
in its depths! Speak out, my friend—would
you exchange it for the demon's drink, al-
cohol?"
	A shout like the roar of the tempest answer-
ed—"No!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
						For the Exponent.
		SELF IMPROVEMENT.

	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

					"The keen spirit
	Seizes the prompt occasion,—makes the thoughts
	Start into instant action and at once
	Plans and performs, resolves and executes."
	Every faculty we possess is capable of be-
ing cultivated to a greater or less extent,
according to our own energy, perseverance
and indefatigable efforts. We may talk of
circumstances, opportunities and resources,
but observation and experience will testify
to a certainty that in most instances, it is,
and always has been, those who have had
the least opportunity, most untoward cir-
cumstances and fewest resources, who have
attained the greatest celebrity. How many,
even in a very limited sphere can we recall
to mind, who have had the most brilliant
prospects opened before them, with every-
thing seemingly favorable to highest de-
velopments of character and intellect, that
have allowed themselves to live in a sort of
thoughtless inaction, carried along perhaps
on the shoulders of influence, with scarcely
an idea of their own, or power to call forth
at the proper moment, a single thought
worthy the consideration of others.
	The usual term applied to successful peo-
ple is, that they had genius. They may,
or may not have had, any extraordinary
gift or talent. Granting they had, what
would it do for them, without cultivation?
If they were incapable of self-improvement,
and happened to be born in poverty, which
is most generally the case with geniuses,
they might live and die, as many do no
doubt, unknown and unappreciated; and
who would be the wiser or the better for it,
or what benefit would ever accrue to the 
world from it? They would not be half so
commendable or worthy of admiration, nor
fill the measure of their creation nearly so
well as the persons possessed of sound com-
mon sense and a good amount of persever-
ance, are able to perform up-hill work, know-
ing that they must depend upon what they
can make themselves, independent of her-
editary, or inherent genius, influence, or
position.
	Perhaps some of our readers may think
this is a subject, fit only for the "sterner sex;"
but in this day and age, the advance of in-
telligence has become so unlimited, that
women are considered capable of improve-
ment to the same extent as their "fellow-
men," and if so, why not of self-improve-
ment? The writer of these lines is anxious
to see the women of Utah embrace the idea
of self-improvement; and would say to them
all, through these columns, whether your
circumstances are favorable or otherwise,
whether you are rich or poor, learned or ig-
norant, you ARE capable of self-improve-
ment.
	I have had occasion recently to call upon
many of the poor who are crowded into
back-streets and alleys, into garrets and
basements, and all sorts of out-of-the-way
places; and it has set me thinking seriously.
What can be done to benefit their condition
materially? The answer comes to me
clearly and forcibly, teach them self-im-
provement. If it is possible to arouse with-
in them a wish, or desire to improve them-
selves and their circumstances in life, we
ought to make a prodigious effort.
	That our city should not become like the
cities of Babylon has been our ambition;
but if we do not mind we will soon have
some of the scum and filth and degradation,

[Column 2]
which abound to such an alarming extent
in the cities of the East.
	There has never been an organization
more conducive to self-improvement, or
more suggestive of ways and means to ele-
vate and develop woman, than the “Re-
trenchment Association.” Every woman
through this channel, has an opportunity for
self-improvement; and if some of our young
ladies whose time hangs so heavily upon
their hands that they are obliged to read
“yellow-covered literature,” and choke
down every sort of trash, that the press fur-
nishes in this “enlightened nineteenth cen-
tury,” would come out to these meetings,
and if they themselves are so thoroughly
accomplished, that there is no occasion for
self-improvement, exert a little of this
power of knowledge in developing others,
they would do great credit to themselves
and materially benefit society. The idea of
any ones saying, they can’t do any good, is
only equivalent to admitting they are too
idle, or too selfish; every woman can do
some good to herself and others by making
an exertion. We hear a great deal about
opportunities, but we can make our own op-
portunities in many instances, if we will;
and it will assuredly reflect greater credit
on us, than to wait for a chance, or other
people to make them for us.
	I could tell you of a woman who had no
opportunities (and less than none if possi-
ble,) to obtain knowledge; who was left an
orphan and had to struggle against all sorts
of adverse circumstances. She did not
possess any apparent genius, nor was she
beautiful enough to attract the attention of
any “good fairy;” but she had energy, per-
severance and determination; she was in-
dustrious and untiring in her efforts for self-
improvement. She came to me a little girl
in Winter-Quarters where there were no
advantages favorable to education, and
asked me to help her with some sums; I
never saw her before, but I have known her
ever since; and I can say truthfully that she
is a self-made woman. To-day she is capa-
ble of conversing upon almost any solid sub-
ject, and all the general topics of the day;
besides having a home of her own provid-
ing. How many girls are there in Utah,
capable of developing into women of mind,
of character, and of taking an active and
efficient part in the business of practical
life?
	Girls don’t be afraid of the term "strong-
minded," for of such there is certainly a ne-
cessity; the stronger you are in mind and body
the better for you, and exceedingly better
for the next generation. If you want noble
women, make yourselves such by your own
merits; do not wait for any other person to
bring you forward; study self-improvement,
in mind, in manners, in temper and disposi-
tion. No matter how old we are, while we
retain our faculties, we are susceptible of
self-improvement. I was talking to a very
old lady not long since, who told me she
had improved herself wonderfully in the
last few years. Said she, “I used to be rude
and abrupt to people, bitter in my feelings,
and of a sour temper. No one could please
me; but since I have become too old for hard
work, I have been cultivating myself, and I
am not like the same woman.” 
	Well, let us commence now, and not wait,
and lend to each other a helping hand in
the work of self-improvement.
	Salt Lake City Jan 12th, 1875.


By a vote of the faculty of Harvard 300
marks of censure will be sufficient this year
to prevent seniors from getting their degree,
and 200 marks will give a special probation.


OUR NUMERALS.

	A correspondent asks, "What is the ori-
gin of our present nine figures, 1, 2, 3, etc.?
I am aware they are Arabic, but how came
they to assume their present form? What
gave the figures 8 and 7, for instance, their
peculiar forms? 3 and 5 are alike, with the
tops turned different ways; 6 and 9 are the
same only reversed. If you can give your
readers any light on this somewhat recon-
dite topic, they would be obliged."
	Recently laborious researches have devel-
oped the fact that the numerals now in use
are not of Arabic origin. They are to be
reckoned among the ingenious inventions of
the Brahmins of India, and date back to
some undetermined period before the Chris-
tian era. An obscurity which scholars have
thus far been unable to clear up envelops the
inquiry as to the time they first became
known to the Arabs and were introduced
into Europe. It is supposed by the most
learned writers on the subject that the Arabs
obtained their knowledge of the characters
through the Persians, who were conquered
by them in 636, and adopted their religion
and one of their dialects. The so-called
Arabic figures resemble the Persic charac-
ters, which are those in popular use through-
out India. Trustworthy authorities fix the
period at which the Arabs acquired the nu-
merals as late as the middle of the thirteenth
century. Others believe the figures, called
"Gobar" by the Arabs, were brought to Bag-
dad during the reign of Al-Mansor (760) or
his immediate successors, and certainly not
later than the time of Al-Mamum, and
thence were carried to Spain during the end
of the tenth or beginning of the eleventh
century.
	A knowledge of the so-called Arabic fig-
ures was soon communicated to the learned
men of Europe. The astronomers of France
and Germany seem to have first employed
them in the fourteenth century, in compos-
ing calendars, which were sent to the vari-
ous religious houses. By this means the
characters were generally diffused through
Europe. One of the oldest authentic dates
in the Arabic numerals is that of 1375, which
was written by Petrarch in a copy of St.
Augustine. The college accounts in the
English universities were generally kept in
the Roman numerals until the beginning of
the sixteenth century. The Arabic charac-
ters were not used in the parish registers
before 1600. The oldest date met with in
Scotland is that of 1490, which occurs in the
rent-roll of the Diocese of St. Andrew's.
	The forms of several of the figures have
undergone considerable change since their
first introduction into Europe. In the old-
est manuscripts the figures 4, 5 and 7 are
most unlike the present characters. The 4
consists of a loop with the ends pointing
down; the 5 has some likeness to the figure
9; and the 7 is simply an inverted V. In
the dates used by Caxton in the year 1480,
the 4 has assumed its present shape, but the
5 and 7 are still very unlike the same char-
acters of to-day. There is no reason assigned
for these changes, which appear to have
been gradual, and the result of choice rather
than introduction. Nor have we ever met
with any attempt to attach an especial sig-
nificance to the forms of the numerals. If
there be a symbolism hidden in their mold
it has yet to be unveiled.—Chicago Tribune.


﻿IN boring for water on the farm of Mr.
Hugenin, in the vicinity of Sheridan, Ill.,
after going through one hundred feet of
solid rock, a vein of coal five feet in depth 
was struck.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, In Salt. Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
		SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	Some people imagined an earthquake was
shaking the western portion of this city,
about noon last Monday. The shock was oc-
casioned by the explosion of a large boiler
......C. W. Stayner makes the "Nose" a mat-
ter of much interest in his lecture on that
subject, which was ably delivered in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms on the evening
of the 11th inst......Sleigh-riding has been
participated in to a considerable extent by
the beaux and belles of this city since the
fall of snow which closely followed the hol-
idays......There was a heavy snowslide in
Little Cottonwood kanyon on the 11th inst.
......The Board of Directors of the Deseret
Agricultural and Manufacturing Society,
held their first meeting for the year 1875,
last Wednesday......A branch of industry
new to this city has lately been commenced,
that of artificial stone making. The arti-
cle produced is natural in appearance and
apparently durable....A new and commo-
dious school house was lately finished and
dedicated at Mill Creek, being the third
school house completed in that district
within two years.
			PERSONAL. 
	Kalakaua receives so much attention he
is becoming aristocratic in his feelings and
begins to put on airs.....Grant has fears of
pulmonary affection in the Louisiana Leg-
islative Assembly if too much talk is in-
dulged in, so he sends military force to set-
tle their differences for them.... Grace
Greenwood's mother died recently.......
Prince George of Russia has chosen subject
matter from the Old Testament upon which
he is writing a drama......John P. Foley
has retired from the position of editor of
the "National Republican," at Washington,
which he held for several years......Senator
Ferry of Connecticut has been so seriously
ill at Washington as to render it necessary
for him to return home.
			CASUAL.
	"New Lampedo," a British ship was
lately burned at sea. The crew were saved
......At Shannon, Miss., a man named Rich-
ard Barnum, his wife and two children
were burned to death in a recent fire......
A fire on Sunday destroyed one hundred
and twenty-five thousand dollars worth of
property at Batesville, Ind.......Three chil-
dren in Trenton, N. J., were drowned last
week, having ventured on thin ice. Their
family names were Collins, Boget and Ste-
vens......The metal works in Watertown,
Mass., belonging to Mr. Blodgett, were re-
cently destroyed by fire......In Wyoming,
eight persons were lately killed by an ex-
plosion in a coal mine...An eminent Eng-
lish geologist, Sir Charles Lyell, fell down
stairs and sustained serious injuries, but is
recovering.....Wide spread inundation and
distress has been caused in China from the
event of the Yellow river’s changing its
course near its mouth....England had two
railway collisions with fatal results in one
week lately......One of the wealthiest firms
of Yeddo, Japan, known as Onoo & Co., has
failed.......A $20,000 tannery has been
burned in Delhi, Ont.......Eight or ten build-
ings in Clinton, Ohio, were destroyed by
fire the last week in December.......Three
teams and four men were drowned in the
river at Omaha on the 12th inst.
			POLITICAL 
	The Republican: version of the late diffi-
culties in the Louisiana Legislature has
been sent to Congress.....Strange acts of
cruelty and illegality are reported by a con-

[Column 2]
gressional investigating committee in Miss-
issippi....Political parties all over the
country denounce the action of the Presi-
dent in sending military force into the
Louisiana Legislature as a means of settling
their disturbnaces....Abuse of power
among men holding authority is complained
of by the people in almost every State and
Territory, the protestations continually in-
creasing.


"LOVE IS THE FULFILLING OF
			THE LAW."

	Love, the holy influence it sheds, and the
power and energy it lends are the sacred charms
which make the joys and pleasures of life so
sweet, its cares, perplexities and bitter griefs
endurable. Love is the soul creator of every
pure delight. What makes the smiling infant
in its mother's arms so innocently happy, but
the power of love which encircles it? Such
unmistakable tokens of deep, decided and un-
selfish affection as are constantly lavished upon
"the baby," by all around it, would undoubt-
edly serve to render most satisfactory the lives
of men and women. What other earthly bliss
can equal that which accompanies the sweet
assurance of love reciprocated? And, indeed,
there can be no other sorrow so consummate as
that which comes with a knowledge of the
hopeless loss of love from one beloved.
	If there is a pitiable thing in all the Lord's
creation, it is the being who exists without
love.
	"You are a naughty girl, and I don't love
you!" were the actual words—thoughtless,
cruel, false words of a mother to her four year
old daughter, whose offense was merely the
continued asking of questions about the pies
which were being made, after she had been told
to be still. A few moments had passed when
the child was discovered, sinking down in a cor-
ner of the room and sobbing as though her little
heart was breaking. When questioned con-
cerning her troubles, her answer came with a
passionate burst of grief—“My mother don’t
love me!” Did ever mortal lips give utterance
to a more touching expression? No wonder the
tried and tired heart of the mother grew sud-
denly sore and penitent.
	Remember mothers, when perchance your
own hearts are starving for that great essential
stimulus, love, that the undeveloped minds and
hearts of your little ones are most impressive
and sensitive. And as you pray God to supply
your wants, withhold not from your children
the sweet portion of bounteous love.
	When husbands and wives love each other as
they should do, when parents love their chil-
dren according to the pattern set by the great
Elohim, and brothers and sisters, relatives,
friends and neighbors love as they have all been
commanded of God; then will universal peace


reign, eternal happiness be established, and the
Law fulfilled.


IS IT FAIR?

	We were on the way to Sunday school last
Sabbath, when the sound of infant voices at-
tracted our attention. One voice was that of a
little girl speaking between sobs, in a grieved
and angry tone.
	"You did too! you pushed me over, and I'll
tell mother!" she said.
	Sure enough, she had been pushed and caused
to slip down, by a domineering little brother,
because they both wanted to take charge of a
younger member of the family, which accom-
panied them. And there was the little miss
with her stockings all muddy, her apron mussed
and worst of all, her delicate feelings wounded
by the rude conduct of her brother.
	O man! we thought, the spirit manifested by
this burly urchin is but a fac-simile of that
which you, in your great want of discernment,
so universally extend to your sisters.
	No wonder the cry has been sounded, "Wo-
man arouse thee!" On every hand has she been
thrust aside when she has sought to gain a posi-
tion or accomplish a work of which her stern
brother has accounted her unworthy or incapa-
ble. There was quite as much justice shown in
the act of that arrogant child, when he pushed
his sister down in the mud, as is generally rep-
resented in the acts of men toward their strug-
gling sisters.
	These thoughts were not awakened through
pain of immediate or personal injuries. It is
but just for us to say that, so far as individual
experience extends, we have never met with
other than encouraging treatment from our
lordly friends in attempting self-advancement
or the accomplishment of any good whatever.
In fact, to be not only gentlemanly and oblig-
ing in every true sense of the word, but also co-
adjutant in every instance wherein woman
seeks the genuine welfare or promotion of any
worthy person or cause, is one thing that the
true Morman man holds to be a duty. And we
have no occasion to complain of the nonper-
formance of that duty on the part of any gen-
tleman upon our list of friends.
	If every woman in the United States could
thus speak truthfully, there would be no neces-
sity for Woman Suffrage meetings being held
all over the country. Instead of spending pre-
cious time to establish the great truth that wo-
man's voice as well as man's should be heard
in all matters of public interest, in as much as
she must abide the laws which are made for the
public benefit, these women might be employed
in gardening or teaching school, or any other
good and useful pursuit. But the people do not
comprehend it, hence the delay and expense of
time and strength.
	But any man of good sense would say that
in the case of the Sunday School children which
we have exemplified, the brother acted unkind-
ly and unfairly. We say, not more ungener-
ously or unjustly than do those men who would
deny their sisters any legitimate right.


A PROMISE.

      If every Latter-day Saint mother, and those
who have hopes of becoming mothers, could
realize one important tenet attached to the strict
observance of "A Word of Wisdom,"  given to
the Prophet Joseph Smith, for the benefit of
the Saints, we venture the opinion that a cup
of tea or coffee or a glass of wine would tempt,
no woman in Zion to violate that law.
	That to those who remember and keep the


word of wisdom as given, "walking in obedience
to the commandments" will be awarded health,
strength and even great treasures of knowledge,
is but a meagre promise to mothers, compared
with that which follows, to which we would di-
rect attention.
	"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise,
that the destroying angel shall pass by them,
as the children of Israel, and not slay them."
	The destroying angel, sent forth to slay all
the first-born among the Egyptians, passed by
the children of Israel, and slew them not. And
the promise is made to those who keep the
commandments and heed the warning given in
the word of wisdom, that the same mercies and
respect shall be shown them, that the destroyer
shall pass them by as the children of Israel. O!
beautiful, sweet promise! O! blessed and hap-
py parents who can conscientiously lay claim
to it!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTICE.
	
	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January,
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed
instead of at the place of delivery; and
have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the precinct of
this county.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	People residing in the Southern settle-
ments of Utah county will enjoy the conve-
nience of passenger trains running daily on the
Utah Southern Railroad, between this city and
Payson, on and after the 20th inst.
	KING KALAKAUA the Hawaiian sovereign, it
is expected will soon be in our midst on his re-
turn west. The city council has instructed
Mayor Wells to invite his majesty to visit and
accept the hospitalities of the city.
	THE MUSICAL association, which comprises
the best musical talent in the city, we under-
stand has in preparation the "Oratorio of the
Messiah;" one of the finest productions of that
great German master of harmony, George Fred-
erick Handel.
	A NEGRO woman in Ophir, called Fanny
Payne, was recently arrested for the shooting
of another woman by the name of Bennett.
The ball was extracted, and Mrs. Bennett was
likely to recover at last accounts.
	BECAUSE SLEIGH riding is a healthful, lively
and exhilerating amusement, we do not see
the necessity of horses being driven to death
in executing their part of it. Yet such has
been the case in several instances in this city
during the past two weeks; which is, to use the
mildest term, shameful.
	Mr. James Dwyer has favored us with Jan-
uary numbers of the “Popular Science Month-
ly,” “Scribners Monthly," the “Atlantic
Monthly" and "Harper's New Monthly Maga-
zine." These books contain some excellent
reading, and can be obtained, any one, or all of
them, at Dwyer's Book Store, Main Street.
	The subject of closing balls and parties by
midnight has been under discussion in some of
the counsel meetings in this city. We suggest
to our young lady friends, the propriety of giv-
ing their escorts to understand that eleven or
twelve o'clock is their time for retiring from
such places of entertainment; thus lending
their influence to assist in a good cause.
	A gentleman of Santaquin pays us a pleas-
ant compliment. He writes, enclosing sub-


scription money, and says: "Although I am
an old bachelor, I delight in reading your ex-
cellent paper, and would go without a new hat
rather than do without it. It is brim full of
good common sense reading; wish every body
would take it." We return thanks, and think
our bachelor friend deserves to become the hus-
band of some good, loving, faithful fair one.
	THE SAINTS at St. George celebrated New
Year's day by meeting in a general grand gath
ering for religious worship. They were ad
dressed by President Geo. A. Smith and others
and extracts from various works were read, in
cluding writings by Col. Thomas L. Kane and
Captain Codman, relating to the Mormons.
President Young sent greetings and blessings
to the people, and desired a continuation of the
prayers of the Saints that his health might
continue to improve.


[Column 1]
ETIQUETTE OF THE. REPUBLICAN
			COURT. 
[From the American Historical Record.]
	When Washington was inaugurated the
first President of the United States, he
found it necessary to establish and fix rules
concerning the reception of visitors, in or-
der to have time to attend to his official du-
ties properly. The precedents of monar-
chy might not be followed with consistency,
but at the same time there were good rea-
sons, for the chief magistrate assuming a
certain degree of dignity and reserve on all
occasions. The rules that should govern
the Republican court had, therefore, to be
made without a precedent. Accordingly
Washington addressed a note to Colonel Al-
exander Hamilton,telling him that it was his
wish to adopt some system as, without over-
stepping the bounds of Republican simplic-
ity, would best maintain the dignity of the
office and secure the President such a com-
mand of his time as was necessary to a
proper performance of his official duties,
and asking Hamilton to make suggestions.
This he did about a week after the inaugu-
ration, and to Colonel Humphreys, a former
aid-de-camp to Washington, and who had
then recently been Secretary of the Ameri-
can Legation at Paris, was left the arrange-
ment of the details of etiquette. It was de-
cided that the President should not return
visits; that formal invitations to dinner
should be given only to official characters
and distinguished strangers, and that vis-
its of mere courtesy should be confined to
the afternoon of Tuesday in each week.
Washington was compelled, at times, to set-
tle instantly a point connected with official
etiquette, himself. In his diary of Sunday
the 15th of November, 1789, he wrote: “Re-
ceived aninvitation to attend the funeral, of
Mrs. Bosevelt, (the wife of a Senator of
this [New York] State) but declined com-
plying with—first because the propriety of
accepting any invitation of this sort ap-
peared questionable—and secondly (though
to do it in this instance might not be im-
proper) because it might be difficult to dis-
criminate in cases that might hereafter hap-
pen.” This separation of the President’s
public life from that of a public citizen dur-
ing his administration, has been kept up
until within the last few years.
	After the arrival of Mrs. Washington at
or near the close of May (1789), it was ar-
ranged that she, too, should have a weekly
reception. Accordingly the drawing-room
of the presidential mansion was open from 8
till 10 o’clock every Friday evening for
visits to Mrs. Washington, at which her
husband was usually present until 9 o’clock,
when he not only retired from the room but

[Column2]
to his bed, that being his accustomed hour
for retiring at his home at Mt. Vernon. At
Mrs. Washington’s reception was generally
seen the cultivated portion of society—per-
sons (and their families) connected, with the
Government, and all whose social positions
entitled them to recognition in refined cir-
cles. On such occasions all were required
to appear in full dress.	
	The President soon adopted the rule of
giving a dinner party every Wednesday, to
members of Congress and of his Cabinet,
Embassadors and other eminent persons,
who were always formally invited by
card.
	Sometimes he would have few and some-
times many at these dinner parties; and
frequently the secretaries or ministers only
would be invited for the purpose of discuss-
ing cabinet questions over a bottle of wine.
Mrs. Cushing, wife of Judge William Cush-
ing, of the Supreme Court, who adminis-
tered the oath of office to Washington at his
second inauguration, wrote from Philadel-
phia on the 2d of April, 1795:—“We dined
to-day with the President and Mrs. Wash-
ington, in company with Mr. and Mrs. Ham-
mond,the Chevalier and Madame Frore,(who
is truly an elegant woman) Don Philip Jau-
dennes and his lady, Mr. and Mrs. Van
Breckel, Mr. and Mrs. Randolph, Mr. and
Mrs. Walcott, Mr. and Mrs. Pinckney, Mr.
and Mrs. Coxe, Madame Frere and Mad-
ame Jaudennes were brilliant with dia-
monds." Hammond was the British Min-
ister; Van Berckel was the Minister from
Holland; the Chevalier Frere was the rep-
resentative of Portugal, and Jaudennes was
the Spanish Minister.
	Washington gave a farewell dinner on
the eve of retirement from public life, on
which occasion he sent out his invitation
cards for the last time. “To-morrow,” he
wrote to Gen. Knox on the 2d of March,
1797, “at dinner, I shall, as a servant of the
public,take my leave of the President elect,
of the foreign characters, the heads of de-
partments, etc.” To that dinner as many
were invited as could be seated at the table-
The late venerable Bishop White of Penn-
sylvania was present. "During the din-
ner,” he afterwards wrote to a friend,
“much hilarity prevailed; but on the re-
moval of the cloth it was put an end to by
the President—certainly without design.
Having filled his glass, he addressed the
company with a smiling countenance, say-
ing ladies and gentlemen, this is the last
time I shall drink your health as a public
man. I do it with sincerity, wishing you
all possible happiness.' There was an end
to all pleasantry.” It is said that tears suf-
fused the cheeks of several who were pres-
ent, especially some of the ladies, who had
become much attached to the President and
Mrs. Washington.


The good boy at present is almost extinct.
There are many boys who are very good while
they are sick, when attending funerals, and when
sleceping. But at other times! Well—The bad
boy is a fellow who will bear watching. When
he does wrong he should be corporally rebuked,
with a good dose of Solomon's birch tonic. One
of these bad boys has been trying to find a virtu-
ous stage-driver. His test is to hit the driver in
the head with a turnip or potato; then if he swears,
he is a bad man—if not, he is very virtuous. The
same boy has tested fifty-six drivers, and found
but one virtuous man. The man was dumb.


DURING the month of November three
hundred and sixty-four new Granges were
organized in the United States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PERFECT RESIGNATION—AN
				ACROSTIC.
	[The initial letters of the alternative lines beginning
with the first give the word FATHER. The remaining in-
itial letters taken in order give the word Mother.]
	Father, to Thee I lift my longing eyes,
		My hope, my love, my all now rest in Thee;
	Around my shattered bark the tempests rise,
		O let Thy arms of love encircle me.
	The lights of time are fading one by one,
		The glow of earthly bliss has fled my gaze.
	Hung on Thy mercy and Thy love alone,
		Here would I linger out my fleeting days.
	Entwine thy arms around Thy lonely one,
		Enwrap him in Thy robe of perfect love.
	Remove each stain, and when life's work is done
		Raise to a mansion in Thy court above.
										[F. MOCRE.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Grandmother's Gingerbread.—Cup and a half of
molasses, cup rich sour cream, teaspoonful salara
-tus, tablespoonful ginger, mix a little stiff.
	German toast.—To one egg, beaten well, add one
cup sweet milk or cream, season with a little salt
and pepper. Cut in slices. stale bread, and dip in
the milk to moisten, and fry in butter on a griddle.
This we think is an extra nice dish for breakfast.
	Good Johnny Cake.—Beat up one egg eith one-
third of a cup of sugar, add one tablespoonful of
melted butter, and one pint of sweet milk, two
and a half cups of meal, half cup of flour, rea-spoonful of cream-of-tartar and half teaspoonful of
soda.
	Sponge Gingerbread.—One cup of sour milk,
one cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, two
eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salaratus, one table-
spoonful of ginger, flour to make it thick as pound
cake. Put the butter, molasses and ginger together
and make them quite warm, then add the milk,
flour and salaratus and bake as soon as possible.
	Sponge Cake.—The following recepie for sponge
cake is pronounced excellent: Ten eggs; the same
weight of sugar and one half the weight of flour.
The grated rind and juice of one lemon. Beat
yolks and sugar to a cream; then stir in gradually
and very gently the flour, and the whites of the
eggs, well beaten; add lemon.
	Doughnuts.—One teacupful of sugar, one tea-
cupful of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of
soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one tea-
spoonful of sweet cream or lump of butter the size
of a hickory nut and spice to taste, roll thin and
cut with a round tin, making a hole in the center
with a thimble; fry until a light brown.
	Breakfast Cake.—In absence of potatoes; or, to
be eaten with butter while warm. Equal parts
sifted corn meal and flour; stir or sift in carefully
while dry one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Dis-
solve in milk (sufficient to mix, and form a batter
that will pour easily into baking tins), one level
teaspoonful each of carbonate of soda and salt;
sweeten to taste. Lastly, add one or two (accord-
ing to supply) well-beaten eggs to one cake, and
bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. Do not
scald and spoil your meal.
	How to Cook Oatmeal.—First, be sure to get new,
fresh oatmeal, as if it becomes damp or old it is
bitter. Put one quart of water into a tinned stew
pan; salt sufficient to be palatable; stir in carefully,
so as not to have it lumpy, three or four handfuls of
oatmeal. Put it over the fire and stir continually
until it has swollen all it will, using care not to
have it burn on the bottom. When it has swollen
all is will, add more water, and then put the stew
pan into a kettle of hot water and leave it cooking
several hours—the longer the better, as the longer
it is cooked the softer and more jelly-like it becomes.
Having the stew pan in another kettle of hot water
prevents its burning on the bottom, and you are re-
lieved from constant stirring, It is good with
milk, syrup, or sweetened milk; or even with but-ter alone.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	CATARRH AND LIVER REMEDY:—"Boston
Myra" can cure the catarrh by a daily use of
raw onions as an article of food; at the same
time, use a snuff made of white sugar, laun-
dry starch, and burned alum, pulverized
and mixed in equal quantities—to be used
the same as other snuff.
	For the liver complaint, avoid coffer, to-
bacco, tea, liquors, and  narcotics of all kinds;
use mild doses of Ayer's pills; eat at regular
hours; diet, rice, baked potatoes, beefsteak
and chickens; avoid pork and pork fat; eat
graham of corn bread. Milk once a dat is
good.—"Rural New Yorker."
	SEDATIVES FOR CHILDREN.—The Popu-
lar Science Monthly gives this warning on
the important matter of using sedatives for
little ones: One of the great danger at-
tending the use of the various sedatives em-
ployed in the nursery is that they tend to
produce the opium habit. These quack
medicines owe their soothing and quieting
effects to the action of opium, and the in-
fant is by them given a morbid appetite for
narcotic stimulants. The offering for sale of
such nostrums should be prohibited, as tend-
ing to the physical and moral deterioration
of the race. In India mothers give to their
infants sugar pills containing opium, and the
result is a languid, sensual race of hopeless
debauchees. In the United States the poi-
sonous dose is administered under another
name, but the consequence will probably be
the same."
	RAW TURNIPS.—Some one writes the
Herald of Health:—"I have always let my
children eat as many raw turnips as they
like. I heard a city woman say the other day
they were not healthy, and I believe they
don't hurt anybody. Will you please settle
the dispute for us?" The editor answers:—
"Generally children are fond of raw turnips,
of the flat, white, strap-leafed variety, if ta-
ken fresh from the field before very old and
tough. If they are scraped with a knife they
will not harm healthy, active children.
If simply chewed they are not easily digest-
ed. As a rule, country children have better
appetites and stronger powers of digestion
than city children. They get more fresh
air and exercise. There is more waste and
more want, hence the same rule will not ap-
ply to both classes.
	HARD AND SOFT WATER.—There is a no-
tion quite prevalent in the minds of the peo-
ple that the drinkin of hard water is inju-
rious to health, and most physicians have
warned people to as far as possible avoid the
practice. But Dr. Letherby, an English
physician, who has devoted much time to
investigating the subject, finds as the result
of his observations, that hard water is not
only clearer, colder, and more free from air,
and more agreeable to the taste than soft,
but that it is less liable to the absorption of
organic matter and to the sustenance of the
life of zygmotic organisms, or to exert sol-
vent properties upon salts of ireon or upon
leaden conducting pipes. And he claims
that the lime-salts exert a beneficial influ-
ence. It is asserted that a practical test of
the truth of this new theory is to be had in
the case of the residens of mountainous
districts, where the water is almost invaria-
bly hard and where the inhabitants exhibit
the best physical development. He claims
that water containing six grains of carbonate
of lime to the gallon is suitable for use in all
household purposes, for such water offers
the necessary amount of carbonate of lime
for the support of life in the simplest and
[Column 2]
	A CORSESPONDENT of the Boston Journal
writes:—Paralysis is becoming a prime dis-
ease. It is not confined to the fleshy, the
plethoric, nor to to the aged. The fast life
of our business young men tell on them. It
is a very common thing to see men of thirty
and thirty-five bald-headed, feeble-gaited,
and walking about with canes, their under-
pinning kncocked out with other signs of
premature age. These signs of early weak-
ness develop in paralysis. Sudden deaths
from this cause are very common. Several
have occured in railroad trains; the vibra-
tion seeming to predispose persons to the
disease. Not long since a gentleman died in
one of our churches. He was interested in
a case of discipline. He made a report to
the church on the case, sat down, laid his
head on the back of the seat and instantly
expired. In another case a man not accus-
tomed to public speaking arose to relate his
religious experience. He was so excited
that he could scarecly speak. In the midst
of his remarks he was seized with paralysis,
and carried to his home. Our young men
will have to tone down their style of living
if they amount to anything.


CHOOSING A SCHOOL.

	As no people experience so many vicissitudes
in a generation as the Americans, none stand
in greater need of a universal and practical ed-
ucation. Fortune is so extremely fickle in
this western world, where the onrushing tide
of humanity is subject to a thousand influ-
ences, where speculation is rife, extravagance
is on the increase, and impatience is the ruling
passion of the hour, men and women need to
be prepared for any fate. And to this end they
must possess that knowledge which will prove
of use in the hour of trial. Whatever may
have been the condition of women in other
ages and lands, in the United States of to-day
the exigences of the hour are such that a prac-
tical education for them can no longer be safe-
ly ignored. Girls need something more sub-
stantial than the accomplishments, sentiment,
and poetry, with which to go out into life and
fight its battles. If all women were Lady An-
gelinas and Baroness Bountifuls, with inherit-
ed establishments and adequate incomes, then
piano playing, waltzing, a smattering of French
and a course of moral philosophy and English
literature might suffice to float through life.
But even among such a class we should expect
to see much foolishness, perhaps absolute wick-
edness, vanity, extravagance, and butterfly ex-
istence ill becoming a human being. No mat-
ter how proud a position a woman may occupy
in America to-day, as the wife of a President or
Senator, as the daughter of a merchant of
wealth, or a great banker, to-morrow she ex-
periences reverses which require all her forti-
tude to meet, and possibly demand mental or
physical exertion on her part to secure the nec-
essaries of life. Instances like these are innu-
merable in our history, while the large class of
women who are not born to wealth, and have
little prospect of getting on in the world, stand
in equal need of knowing how to do something
which shall bring a price; how to accomplish
that which shall render them independent, and
be of use to others. Realizing these conditions,
parents, who, at this season of the year; are
seeking the best schools in which to place their
daughters, will naturally choose where there is
a judicious mingling of the practical with the
ornamental. Many schools and colleges for
ladies now give instruction in scientific and
practical matters, laying the foundations of an
education upon which a successful and shelter-
ing superstructure can be reared afterward.
Every fond father loves to see his daughter
beautiful, rosy-cheeked, sweet-voiced, healthy,
delicate-handed, interesting and accomplished;
he should also, wish to see her sensible, self-
sustained, wise and provided with the best ar-
mor he can give her for warding off the stings
and arrows of an outrageous fortune.—Ex.


SEVEN hundred female telegraphists are
employed in the central London Post Office.
Their wages vary from 14s. to 16s. a week.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		THE CHILDLESS HOME.

	Many newly-married people consider
childlessness a peculiarly fortunate circum-
stance. It relieves them from many cares,
annoyances and vexations. It abolishes the
nurse, sleepless nights, good Mrs. Winslow,
and the cradle. It gives opportunity for 
parties, balls, the opera, and sundry trips to
the mountains and sea-shore, which would
be exceedingly inconvenient if a little trou-
ble-maker had to be taken along or left be-
hind. There is nobody to litter the floors,
turn the show-articles upside down, and
make confusion generally; and there are no
sobs nor squalls, which those may call "mu-
sic" who have an ear for such sounds, which
our childless people have not. And then,
the landlords are so civil when they are
told, "No children;" that is the "open sesa-
me" to any desirable suite of apartments or
love of a cottage. Indeed, many of our
newly-married folks look upon no children
as the universal panacea for the ills of life,
and the infallible recipe for connubial, and
indeed all other happiness.
	But after a while the brightest and most
engaging couples tire of receptions, theaters,
concerts, and the like. The appetite for ex-
citement becomes sated. The relish for ar-
tificial enjoyments gets cloyed. The desire
for comfort and quiet takes the place of the
feverish craving for active pleasures. To
sit down at home over an entertaining book;
to break the monotony of an evening by a
pleasant chit chat, a few touches of music,
or an amusing game; to be warned off to
bed by velvet-footed dreams, stealing over
the senses and filling the fancy with drowsy
delights—these things invariably come in
time. And then comes a yearning for some-
thing the heart has not, a looking for what
the room does not contain, a feeling after
what no provision has been made for. But
the cradle does not come. The aversion to
care, infantile cries, and confusions of all
sorts, has become chronic; but little Two
Shoes is a tyrant, and wherever he sets up
his small despotism, insists that the "laws
of disorder" shall prevail. The desire for
somebody to pet, and play with, and dote
upon grows to a hunger, which, alas, does
not feed itself, and only gives way to the
more painful need of that sympathy, affec-
tion, friendship, solace and support which
none but a child can supply. There may be
wealth; yet who but a child shall keep at
bay that great brood of vultures and cormo-
rants which peck remorselessly at the life of
whoever has a purse? There may be social
position, and even fame; but how empty and
barren are all honors that must dissolve with
the breath of their wearer? The home may
be a palace; but its splendid halls will be
cold and cheerless as the forecourt of a sep-
ulchre, if they are not made the portals of
heaven by the prattle, the merry laugh, and
innocent hilarity of children, through whom
the Divine Paternity bestows perrennial
youth, and hope, and earthly immortality
upon parents here.
	Of all cheerless, unnatural places in the
world, a childless home is quite the most
uncomfortable. There is something oppres-
sive in its vacancy. Its stillness is stifling.
the heart faints and cries for what is not
there. The home into which the great
Father has once placed one of His little ones,
for however short a stay, is transformed by
that visitation, and can never lose the charm
of that mysterious coming, nor the light
that streamed through the door of the noise-
less departure. That door is open, and no
hand can shut it; and just on the other side
the unseen child engages in gambols, or is
busied with tasks, which it needs but a lit-

[Column 2]
tle imagination, blended with faith for a
parent's heart, to bear. No home can ever
be the same again into which one immortal
being rose to conscious life, and saw a heav-
en of love in a mother's eyes. Birth is the
great sacrament. But the home that has
had no such baptism, cold, dull and dreary
is it at the best, with none of the poetry of
life in it, no legends of angels trailing about
it, and no star shining over it to indicate
that it is favored of Heaven.—Golden Age.


PAPER IN THE BOSTON FIRE.

	Curious results followed some of the ex-
periments made upon charred papers and
documents, and the examination of books
in safes which proved worthless in the
great fire. It was found that what paper-
makers call poor paper—paper considerably
"clayed," stood the test best. Parchment
paper, used for bonds and legal documents,
shriveled up exceedingly, and the print
blistered so that it could be read when
the writing was illegible. So it was with
the engraved work on notes. The gilding,
on the account books burned and charred,
showed out as bright and clear as when the
books were new, which brings up the ques-
tion that if to introduce gilt-edged account
books would not be well, on the ground that
the gilt would stay the passage of fire to
the pages within. Books crammed into a
safe, so that it was difficult to get them out,
suffered considerably less than those that
were set in loosely; and in some cases out of
safes, in which everything else was worth-
less, were so far preserved that the figures
on their pages could be deciphered. With
charred papers, which could not be made
transparent by any light whatever used, it 
was found, after the employment of vitriol,
oxalic acid, chalk, glycerine, and other
things, that anything that moistened them
to a certain stage—to which it was delicate
work to get and not to pass—made the lines,
words, and figures legible through a mag-
nifying glass. It has been the almost uni-
versal experience that lead pencil marks
show out all right where ink marks cannot
be distinguished. The success of the use
of photography has already been noted.—
Boston Advertiser.


WRITING FOR NEWSPAPERS.

	Some people estimate the ability of a news-
paper and the talent of its editor by the quanti-
ty of original matter which it contains. The
"Literary Journal" truthfuly says: It is com-
paratively an easy task for a frothy writer to
pour out daily columns of words—words, upon
any and all subjects. His ideas may flow in
one week, washy, everlasting flood, and his
command of language may enable him to string
them together like bunches of onions, and yet
his paper may be a meagre and poor concern.
Indeed, the mere writing part of editing a pa-
per is but a small portion of the work. The
care, the time employed in selecting, is far more
important, and the tact of a good editor is bet-
ter shown by his selections than anything else;
and that we all know is half the battle. But,
as we have said, an editor ought to be estimated
and his labors understood and appreciated by
the general conduct of his paper—its tone—
its temper—its uniform, consistent course—its
aims—its manliness—its dignity—its propriety.
To preserve these as they should be preserved is
enough to occupy fully the time and attention
of any man. If to this be added the general
supervision of a newspaper establishment,
which most editors have to encounter, the won-
der is how they can find time to write at all.—
Every Saturday.


THE railways get about $8,000,000 a year
for transporting mail matter.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	CONNECTICUT ranks third in the United
States as a silk manufacturing State, having
twenty-five silk factories with a capital of
$3,450,000.
	MASSACHUSETTS is soon to have a reform-
atory prison for women, all the officers of
which, excepting the Superintendent, Trea-
surer and Steward, are to be women.
	A VEIN has been discovered in the main
shaft of the Sherman Mine, at Caribou, Cal.;
of brittle silver, intermingled with pure
sulphate of silver, that will pay $20,000 a
ton.
	EX-GOV. Boutwell, of Massachusetts, has
been making very careful experiments as to
what it costs to raise corn in that State. On
his best soil it costs sixty-eight cents per
bushel, but on heavy and harder soil to till
it would cost one-third more, or $1.00.
	IN the early days in the American colo-
nies men who owned a plow had a strong
team and went about the country plowing
for farmers as they do at this day with ditch-
ing machines. Then it took one man to
drive, one to hold the plow, and one to bear
on the beam.
	ALABAMA iron is shipped to Charleston
and thence to England. Upon this change
of affairs the Montgomery "Advertiser" re-
marks: "This is reversing the tide. It was
but a few years ago that England supplied
the Western world with iron. Henceforth
the mistress of the sea' must look up to us
for the all-important commodity."
	THE Toledo "Journal" thus sums the mat-
ter up: "If the ballot can be rightfully
withheld from woman, it can be from the
poor man. If from the poor man, then also
from the uneducated man. If from the un-
educated man, then also from the common
people. If from the common people, then
also from the aristocratic classes. If from
the aristocratic classes, then the king does
indeed rule by divine right, and republics
are the biggest humbugs of the age."
	THE New York "Times" makes an elabor-
ate review of the labor market, its condi-
tions and prospects, and concludes therefrom
that trades are not so languishing as at this
time in several past years. The number of
unskilled laborers is large, as is always the
case. Working women are found to have
as dull prospects before them as any class,
and for these the consideration of the chari-
tably disposed is bespoken. Altogether the
situation is considered far from discourag-
ing.


AN ingenious little culinary implement
was lately shown in Paris at the Exposition
of Gastronomic Products—a novel gridiron
and baking oven all in one. It consists of
an oblong quadrangular sheetiron box, open
at the top and at one end, and standing on
four feet. The top has a netting of iron
wire stretched over it, and on this glowing
charcoal is placed. A gridiron slides in at
the open end under the fire. The juices and
melted fats of the meat, poultry, fish, etc.,
drop into a pan beneath the gridiron, and
no disagreeable odors of burning grease are
given out. No ashes sift through the wire
network on the meet below, unless the fire
is stirred. When it becomes necessary to
meddle with the fire, the gridiron is to
be removed for a moment and then re-
placed. The heat of the fire may at the
same time be employed for the purpose of
boiling water in a pot or kettle, set upon
some sort of stand over the fire.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.

	A WOMAN is generally more economical
than a man, because her "waist is small-
er.
	A CALIFORNIA compositor made an edi-
tor say about a contemporary that it stood
"in the front rank of inferior journals."
	MRS. Partington reading of the strike of
the wire drawers, remarked: "Ah, me!
what new fangled things won't they wear
next.
	AN Irishman returned from his travels
gallantly compared his landlady to Vesuvi-
us, because "she was a fine old crater."
	"THE honeymoon is well enough," said a
prudent belle "but what I want to see be-
yond that is the promise of a fine harvest-
moon.
	AS to the familiar problem—What is
home without a mother?—a Brooklyn boy
says that it is a very pleasant place provided
she leaves the key of the pantry behind
her.
	"PAPA, are you growing taller all the
time?" "No, my child; why do you ask"
"'Cause the top of your head is poking 
through your hair.
	THE name "Kalakaua," King of the
Sandwich Islands, is pronounced Kollow-
kow-ah but some pronounce it Calico, and
others Kill-a-crow.
	WE are told that the smallest hair throws
a shadow. Of course it does, it throws a
shadow over your appetite when you find
it in your victuals.
	THERE is still another point in favor of
narrow-gauge railroads. When the locomo-
tive runs over a man two-thirds of the
body is left in good shape for identification.
	IN summing up the household necessa-
ries, a young husband asked, "Now what
portion are you to find?" "I'll find the
fault" replied the animated wife.
	ALBANI never speaks aloud on the days
preceding the nights when she is adver-
tized to sing, and in various other respects
she is highly calculated to make some man
happy in the domestic circle.
	PEDAGOGUE:—First little boy, what is
your name?" Little boy—"Jule." Peda-
gogue—"Oh, no; your name is Julius.
Second little boy, what is yours?" Second
little boy—"My name is Billious."
	A DALLAS man is so extremely verdant
as to advertise for a lost umbrella—inno-
cently supposing it was taken by mistake.
Such faith in human nature is inexpress-
ively touching considering the state of the
weather.
	A LADY went into a carpet store recently
and pointing out a carpet asked the proprie-
tor what it was. "Brussels," says the pro-
prietor. "Brussels," quoth the lady, pass-
ing her hand over it, "Seems to me the
brustles don't stick up much."
	"BOY," said a traveler to a disobedient
youth whom he encountered, "don't you
hear your father speaking to to you?" "Oh,
y-a-a-s," replied the youth. "But I don't
mind what he says. Mother don't neither,
and twixt she and I, we'ev about got the
dog so he don't.
	IN one of the Cape Cod towns, a young
scholar, the first day at school, was asked
her name by the teacher, and replied. Her
father's name was the next question, and
she did not know his first name. The

[Column 2]
teacher then asked her, "What does your
mother call him?" "You Jackass!" said
the child.
	YOUNG lady picks up the morning paper
and reads advertisement: "A splendid assort-
ment of ladies' corsets just opened at"—She
throws the paper down in disgust. "Yes
they must have been a splended assortment
of ladies that would go down there to have
their corsets opened! They ought to be
sent to prison, they and the rascals too!"
Excuse young lady, she was at a party last
night, and it didn't close till four.


A GOOD MOTHER.

	Sometimes one hears of a good wife and
mother, that “she’s a regular home body.”
The phrase is simple, but what a world of en-
nobling qualities it indicates, and what a uni-
verse of frivolity it excludes! The matronly
home body is indeed “Heaven’s best gift to
man.” Dashing ladies, whose mission it is to
set the fashions, won’t you look in upon your
gentle sister as she sits in her well ordered nur-
sery, making her children happy with her pre-
sence? Note how she adjusts their little diffi-
culties, and admonishes, encourages, instructs
or amuses them as may be. Do you think any
nurse maid could produce such harmony in
their little circle? Is she not an enchantress?
Verily, yes, and her charm is “Love stronger
than death” for those sweet faces, where you
may see her smiles or frowns (though she sel-
dom has occasion to frown) reflected in glee and
sorrow, like sunlight and cloud shadow in a
quiet pool. What she is, she will teach her
daughters to be; and blessed are the sons who
have such a mother.


﻿MRS. J. A. Judd a well known milliner
of Norwalk, Ct., was found dying from th e
effects of laudanum, on a bed in her store,
and a note on a stand; gave a reason for the
act, that she had been ‘'troubled without
measure, during a life of many years.”
She was observed to be very low spirited on
Saturday, and she is supposed to have ta-
ken the dose some time during Sunday
night. The store was not opened on Mon-
day, and it was not till Tuesday night that
she died. She was formerly the wife of
Rev. Dr. Orrin B. Judd of Norwalk, but
got a divorce from him, after a long suit,
which exhausted her means, and these
troubles, together with the fact that the
custody of their three children was given
to the husband, were a part of the burden
of her life. She was 52 years old.


Under the new constitution the married
women of Illinois enjoy many special priv-
ileges not allowed them in other States, ex-
cepting Michigan and Nevada. They can
sue or be sued in their own names, have
custody of children when deserted by their
husbands; can make examples of their re-
fractory lords in the courts; can manage
their husbands’ property absolutely if they
remain out of the State a year, or get into
the penitentiary; can direct any business
independently except in a case of partner-
ship, which she cannot enter without her
husband’s consent: and can possess, acquire
and sell real estate as freely as though she
were one of the “lords of creation.” The
wife is not liable for debts incurred by the
husband before marriage, and only in ex-
ceptional cases for those contracted after-
wards; neither are her earnings to be
touched by her husband or his creditors.


THE manufacturers of glass bottles claim
for their business the unenviable distinction
of being at present the dullest and most un-
remunerative of all branches of manufac-
tures.


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,

				GO TO 
			MRS. C. E. DYE'S,
			19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES' & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
			Of the Latest Style.
	Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.

		EVERY DESCRIPTION 
				OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.
				--
	Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
				--
			Large Assortment of 
	CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
				--
		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
				--
			H. E. PHELPS, 
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
	FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.

			CLUB RATES.
				--
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
 Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.

