VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1874	﻿	No. 5


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	JAPAN HAS done a sensible thing, if re-
port speaks truly, in prohibiting the public
exhibition of deformed persons and other
human monstrosities.

	MISS FRANCES Willard lately resigned
her office of Dean of North Western Uni-
versity because she could not agree with
the faculty in regard to the government of
the college and preparatory school.

	THE LADIES' Physiological Society fo
Brooklyn has started on the war path against
corsets, high-heeled shoes, false hair and
every other fashion injurious to health and
physical beauty.

	THEY HAVE no big snake stories at St.
Johnsville but make up the deficiency by
claiming that a farmer there has hens which
build their nests in the trees and lay their
eggs in them.

	NANCY W. COVILLE, of Keene, New
Hampshire has publicly protested against
having to pay taxes while she is a disfran-
chised citizen and not allowed to vote for
the "powers that be." This she considers
"taxation without representation." The
rights that the few are struggling for now,
will, we hope, be enjoyed by the many in
the early future.

	"THE ATTORNEY General has decided
that, irrespective of the time or place of
marriage, or the residences of the parties,
a white woman married to a citizen of this
country is to be taken and deemed a citi-
zen of the United States"—Washington Star.
Which shows that the legislators who con-
ferred the elective franchise on the women
of Utah are not the only ones to be con-
demned for holding the same ideas concern-
ing woman's citizenship.

	THERE WERE six women in the gradua-
ting class of the University of Michigan at
Ann Arbor. One lady student received the
degree of Pharmaceutical chemist, another
that of Doctor of Medicine. The ladies
belonging to the graduating clases attended
the usual commencement dinner at which
about 350 persons were present. It was re-
marked that the speakers addressed their
hearers as "ladies and gentlemen" for the
first time, there having been so few lady
students in the classes of '72 and '73 that
they did not feel like attending these state
dinners.

WE CLIPPED the following from an exchange
because we concurred with the closing sen-
timent, especially if the judge referred to
is the Mr. Poland that labored so diligently
in the last Congress to procure special and
unjust legislation for Utah: "When Judge
Poland reported unfavorably upon a large
number of petitions asking for Woman
Suffrage in the District of Columbia, we are
told 'that the leaders of the Woman's
Rights movement watched this report from
the gallery with much indignation.' We
hope that this indignation will make itself
felt some day, in remanding such men to
private life."

	TWENTY-FIVE married women of Daven-
port, Iowa, have formed themselves into a
mutual improvement society, styled the
"Clionian Club." This we read in a letter
to the "Woman's Journal" in which the
writer observes "Don't you think it would
be a good plan to organize such a club for
the young women? And in this way, by
essays and discussions, get many interested
in the "Cause" who otherwise would give
it but little attention." While the need of
mutual effort is thus felt in other places the
sisters here can feel that their wants have
been anticipated by the organizations of
Relief and Retrenchment societies for
both old and young.


DIVERSIONS.

	FRETWORK—Vexation of spirit.

	ENGAGED for every set—A hen.

	WHY is a chicken like a farmer? Because
both delight in a full crop.

	NEXT to a diary, the most difficult thing
to keep is a lead pencil.

	THE earliest financial transaction on re-
cord? When Pharaoh recieved a check on
the bank of the Red Sea, crossed by "Moses
& Co."

	"THERE!" said Jones, as he wrathfully
pushed away the pie which his landlady had
just served him, "that stuff isn't fit for a pig
to eat and I am not going to eat it!"

	"DOCTOR," said a conceited literary man
to Holmes on the streets of Boston, "I am
going to deliver my lecture in Lowell to-
night." "I am glad of it; I dislike those
Lowell people," retorted the doctor. 

	A TOMBSTONE in the Yazoo Miss., ceme-
tary bears the following inscription:
	"Here lies interred Priscilla Bird,
	Who sang on earth 'till sixty-two;
	Now up on high, above the sky,
	No doubt she sings like sixty, too." 

	A PHILADELPHIAN who met a Bostonian
and remarked that Boston would be a fine
city if it was only laid out differently—like
Philadelphia, for instance. "Well," replied
the Boston man, "If Boston ever becomes
as dead as Philadelphia, we will try to "lay
it out" like that city. 

	A WIDE-awake minister, who found his
congregation going to sleep before he had
fairly commenced, suddenly stopped and
exclaimed, "Brethren this isn't fair; it isn't
giving a man half a chance. Wait till I get
along, and then if I ain't worth listening to,
go to sleep, but don't before I commence;
give a man a chance."

	"DOES your arm pain you?" asked a witty
Aberdeen lady of a gentleman, who, at a
party, had thrown his arm across the back
of her chair, so that it touched her shoulder.
"No, madam, it dosn't pain me; but why
do you ask?" "Oh I noticed that it was
dislocated, sir; that's all. The arm was re-
moved.

	WILLIAM M. Evarts tells this good story:
A few summers since, at the urgent request
of one of his younger daughters, he sent up
to his country place in Vermont a donkey
for her use. She had read about donkeys,
but was not familiar with their peculiar vo-
calism. The animal's strange noises inspired
her with profoundest pity for his evident
distress. So she wrote to her father, "Dear
papa, I do wish you would come up here
soon—my donkey is so lonesome."
	
	THEY tell a funny incident which hap-
pened lately at an auction sale of damaged
goods. A pair of blankets were up which
seemed to take the eye of the crowd; the
highest bid was a dollar, from a lady who
determined to have them. But she had an
unseen opponent, who ran her up to five
dollars, and had the blankets knocked down
to him.
	"Yours, Mr. Mae," said the smiling auc-
tioneer.
	Whereupon the lady rose and exclaimed,
"What! my husband?" and raising herself
on tiptoe to get sight of him, "Why, you
good-for-nothing man, you have been bid-
ding against your wife.

	A MASSACHUSETTS farmer says, "My cat-
tle will follow me until I leave the lot, and
on the way up to the barn-yard in the eve-
ning stop and call for a lock of hay." Smith-
son says there is nothing at all remarkable
in that. He went into a barn-yard in the
country one day last week, where he had
not the slightest acquaintance with the cat-
tle, and the old bull not only followed him
till he left the lot, but took the gate off the
hinges and raced with him to the house in
the most familiar manner possible. Smith-
son says he has no doubt that the old fellow
would have called for something if he had
waited a little while, but he didn't want to
keep the folks waiting dinner: so he hung
one tail of his coat and a piece of his pants
on the bull's horns, and went into the
house.


TO YOUNG MEN.

	Young men have it, as an excuse for leav-
ing the farm, that educated, well-bred
young women turn up their noses at and
will not associate with nor marry farmers;
and they fling out that the women of the
day are too refined and delicate, too lazy for
work and working men; but they are mis-
taken. It is not labor, but coarseness and
vulgarity that they turn up their noses at;
it is not the sun-browned, toil-hardened
hand, but the dirt, that they refuse; it is
not health-giving, soul-elevating work, but
slavish, degenerating drudgery and repul-
sive surroundings that they shun. No wo-
man who is worthy the love and respect of
a true man would shirk the labor and re-
sponsibilities of his calling, whatever it
might be; and there is no sensible one that
would not prefer an educated, well-bred,
robust farmer, to a pale, sallow, nervous
professional man.
	Cultivated, unselfish manliness is more
desirable in a husband than effeminacy and
gentlemanly leisure; and because a man
toils need he be a niggard?—becase he
plows and hoes need he be a boor?—because
he tills the soil and cleans the stables need
he forever go about and sit at his fireside
with the filth and the smell clinging to him?
—because his life is a life of labor, need he
spend his rainy days and winter evenings
in lolling and dozing, and live and die in 
ignorance?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


LITTLE BROWN HANDS.

They drive home the cows from the pasture,
	Up through the long shady lane,
Where the quail whistles loud in the wheat fields
	That are yellow with ripening grain.
They find, in the thick waving grasses,
	Where the scarlet-lipped strawberry grows:
They gather the earliest snow-drops,
	And the first crimson buds of the rose.

Those who toil bravely are strongest;
	The humble and poor become great:
And from these brown-handed children
	Shall grow mighty rulers of State.
The pen of the author and statesmen—
	The noble and wise of the land—
The sword and the chisel and palette
	Shall be held in the little brown hand.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The Bountiful Relief Society and Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association met on
16th of June. Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I.
Horne, R. Grant, L. Wells, and — Wells
were present from Salt Lake City. After
singing and prayer, Sister E. R. Snow in an
interesting address on a number of topics,
referred to the institution of the Relief So-
ciety in the days of the Prophet Joseph and
said it was organized for the benefit of the
sisters that they might be united in their
efforts to do good. She concluded with
some counsel and encouragement to the
young ladies. Sisters Horne, Grant and
Wells followed with appropriate instructions
and exhortations to the sisters. Remarks
were also made by Elders Erastus Snow, of
St. George, and by Elders Stoker, Call and
Barlow, all expressing satisfaction with
what they had heard. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks; closed with singing, and
prayer.
	ELIZABETH H. BARLOW, President,
				MARY CARTER, Secretary.

	KAMAS, SUMMIT Co., July 12th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I send you a report of a meeting held on
the fourth of July, for the dedication of a 
house built by the Relief Society of this
place. Bishop S. F. Attwood, P. H. Young,
W. Harder and other brethren were present.
The Dedicatory prayer was offered by Bish-
op W. Harder. Much valuable instruction
was given to the sisters by Bp. S. T. Att-
wood and other Elders who were invited to
address the meeting. Several of the sis-
ters also spoke of the goodness of God and
expressed their determination to progress
and assist in every good work for the build-
ing up of the Kingdom of God on the earth.
The good Spirit of the Lord was enjoyed by
all present. Our society house is a one
story building, twenty-one by eighteen feet
in size and is well finished for a log build-
ing, logs being the best material we could
obtain in this place. We thankfully ac-
knowledge much assistance from our bishop
and several of our brethren, both of good
counsel and, what is still better—hard labor.
At the meeting, much regret was felt for the
absence of our President, Sister Mary J.
Attwood, who is just recovering from a long
and severe illness.
		PHEBE YOUNG, Asst. Secretary.

		    SMITHFIELD, July 19th, 1874.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our annual meeting, held May 12th, was
well attended by the members and all
seemed to enjoy a good spirit. Bishop Ros-
kelly was present, gave some excellent in-
structions and expressed himself well satis-
fied with the progress of the society. The
financial affairs of the Society are in a pros-
perous condition. Its income, for the year
ending May 12th 1874, amounted to $165.47;
of this $117.47 has been given to the poor,
the P. E. Fund and other objects. Besides
this the Society own shares in the co-opera-
tive Store, vouchers of the U. N. R. R. and
other property amounting to $276.98. Pres.
Mrs. E. T. Morehead and her counselors
made some excellent remarks in which the
EXPONENT was highly spoken of and the
sisters desired to subscribe and write for
it.			J. S. COLEMAN, Secretary.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE CO. July 19th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	We held our sixth annual meeting on the
11th inst. The Financial Report was read
and considered very favorable; the Society
having disbursed $164.84 to the needy leav-
ing an increase in the Treasury from last
year of $52.41. We are steadily increasing
and hope to build a Society house this
fall—the weather is excessively hot. For
some time past we have been silent re-
specting the worthy EXPONENT but not
because we underate its value, as we heart-
ily indorse its contents and will do all in 
in our power to add to the list of subscribers
—We feel thankful to see the day when the
United Order has been organized and still
hope to see the day when the Kingdom of
God will be fully established on the earth
and the priesthood bear rule in all things.
	Respectfully,
				E. WHITON, President,
				M. NARKISON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
BRIDGEPORT, ONEIDA CO., IDAHO,
						July 19, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I am willing to contribute some of my
simple thoughts as they may occur to my
mind while attending to the duties of a dairy 
life.
	Although I am for the present, almost
shut out from the society of the Saints, I
am not deprived of the faculty of thinking
and contemplating on the great goodness of
our Heavenly Father in overruling for the 
greatest good of his people.  Every weapon 
that is raised against them seems to fall 
harmless to the ground.  I think we should
be very humble and thankful; and, as 
daughters of Zion, manifest in our daily
walk and conversation and by the example
we set before the rising generation in mat-
ters of dress that we appreciate the counsels
and instructions that have been so unceas-
ingly bestowed upon us: also that we can 
and will retrench in every thing that leads
to extravagance.  Let our garments be
plain, the adorning of them being the handy
workmanship of our own hands, not even
spending too much of our time at that;
avoiding excess of every kind, and, in a
word, be sensible, wise workers in the great
Hive.  Let us not be found like the foolish
virgins who, it seems, had wasted their
time taking their ease, perhaps following
after foolish fashions till the cry was heard
“Behold the Bridegroom cometh go ye out
to meet him."
	With many prayers for the success of all
who contribute to the columns of the EXPO-
NENT and for all co-workers in the Kingdom
of God on the earth I subscribe myself your
sister in the Gospel.				E. S.


MRS. Vandeveer, wife of the proprietor of
the Neptune House at Coney Island has,
during the past week, saved the lives of 
two persons who were drowning in the 
surf.


THE SEX.
	MISS M. E. Little has been appointed
﻿Agent of the Western Union Telegraph
Company, at Santa Barbara.
	MISS Luella Fay of Springfield, Mass., de-
livered the valedictory and Miss Clara J,
Paige of Chicopee Falls, the salutatory’ ad-
dress at the semi-annual examination of the
Normal School in Westfield, Mass., last 
week.
	HELEN M. Knowlton & Co., are the edi-
tors and publishers of the Worcester "Pal-
ladium." The company is a sister of Miss
Helen, and the firm is composed of the
daughters of the founder of the paper, which
was established in 1834.
	MISS T. F. Panghorn is the present Record-
er of the Probate Court in Chittenden Coun-
ty, Vermont, the records of this court have
been made by women for the past five years,
and they are noted for their efficiency and 
correctness.
	A WOMAN of Polk Country Wisconsin, who
lives in a log house, the logs for which she 
cut down herself, is the mother of fourteen 
children, chops all her own wood, never re-
ceived a dollar from her husband, and is 
not yet forty years old. 
	CLARA Sarah Bernhardt, the refined ac-
tress of the Comedie Francais, is a sculptor,
and devotes as much time to her studies as
she can spare from the requirements of her
dramatic career.  She has a bust in white 
marble, of a young girl, at the Paris Salon.
	THE House Judiciary Committee, to
whom was referred the Petition of Susan B.
Anthony for a remission of the fine imposed
by Judge Hunt, report in an uncertain lan-
guage, their condemnation of the course
pursued in refusing Miss Anthony her right
to a verdict by the jury, and recommend
that the fine be remitted. 
	MISS Harriet Upton has bequeathed a 
thousand dollars to the city of Salem Mass.,
the interest to be devoted to the poor, every
Thanksgiving-day. She also left $500 each
to the Society for the relief of Aged and 
Destitute Women, Female Employment So-
ciety, and Seaman's Orphans and Children's 
Friend Society. 
	UNDER the new school law of California
the following elections have lately taken
place: Mrs. Wm. Cutler has been elected
School Trustee of Jenny Lind Township,
Calaveras Co. and Mrs. A. A. Anderson
and Mrs. J. M. Montgomery to the same of-
fice in Snelling District, Merced Co.  At an 
election for School Trustee, in San Ramon
School District, Contra Costa Co. Mrs. J. O.
Boone was the successful candidate, she suc-
ceeded her husband, whose term had ex-
pired. 
	MRS. Sarah White Livermore, one of the
noted literary women of New Hampshire
of the older generation, died at Wilton last
week.  She was one of the original Aboli-
tionists, and, in connection with Rev. Sam-
uel Barrett of Boston, then a student in 
town, Rev. Warren Burton, Samuel Abbot
and others, founded what was then called
"The Literary and Moral Society," designed
for the mutual improvement of the mem-
bers and of the community, long before the
New England Lyceum was thought of. Also,
in association with Mrs. Phebe Abbot,
mother of Prof. Ezra Abbot of Havard Uni-
versary, and other active friends, she start-
ed a Sunday School in 1816, one of the first,
if not the first, in the country, Mrs. Liv-
ermore would have been eighty-five years
old on the 20th inst.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SYNOPSIS.
	Of a Surprise Reception given to our re-
cently returned Delegate, Hon. Geo. Q. Can-
non, by the Ladies of the 14th Ward Relief
Society, in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
July 15th, 1874.
	The Hall was neatly fitted up for the oc-
casion, and ornamented with flowers. Above
the stand, on a white ground, in large let-
ters formed of evergreens, was

	WELCOME TO OUR DELEGATE.

	In a richly carpeted area in front of the
Stand, stood a table bearing a large and 
beautiful Cake, presented by Mrs. E. Town-
send of the Townsend House, ornamented
with "Welcome to our Delegate, G. Q. Can-
non," and other appropriate mottoes.
	Present, were Pres. B. Young and his two
Counsellors G. A. Smith and D. H. Wells—
of the Twelve, W. Woodruff, J. Taylor and
G.Q. Cannon; and other prominent gentle-
men and ladies.
	In the absence of Pres. Mrs. M. I. Horne,
Coun. Mrs. W. East presided.
	The exercises commenced with singing
by the choir—prayer by Bp. Thos. Taylor—
after which Mrs. W. East made the follow-
ing
		PRESENTATION ADDRESS.

	With the approval of our worthy Bishop—
in the absence of our President Mrs. M. I
Horne, who has been unexpectedly called
away; in behalf of the Relief Society of this
Ward, we take pleasure in presenting this 
small tribute, as a token of our appreciation
of the labors of our much esteemed and wor-
thy Delegate, George Q. Cannon, who has re-
turned from the Capitol in Washington, where
he labored during the past winter, in defense
of the Kingdom of God.
	God has been with him, to crown his ef-
forts with success. We are pleased to ex-
press our sentiments of confidence and re-
spect, by preparing this reception of Wel-
come Home; and beg his acceptance of a 
small present, manufactured by the ladies
of the Society—ladies who are faithful in
sustaining the cause of God and our rights.
	She then read an original poem composed
for the occasion, entitled

			WELCOME.

Welcome, thrice welcome, thou champion of truth—
Most faithful and true from the days of thy youth;
With pleasure we greet thee, nor wish thee to roam,
And many friends meet thee to welcome thee home.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

Accept as a token our remembrance of thee
A present—though small, not imported—you'll see
'Tis the work of your sisters whose hands love to tell
With the elements grown from our own native sell.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

Let the adorning our bodies be the work of thy hands,
Are the blesssings we seek, and the Prophet's commands
It was duty that call'd thee from loved ones to roam
Who rejoice in re-union to welcome thee home.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

	Immediately after the poem, Conselor
Mrs. E. Wilkinson presented the "Hat,"
which is of straw, fine and beautiful—
braided by Mrs. Peart and sewed in Mrs.
Wilkinson's establishment. For beauty it
might adorn the head of a King, but no
earthly monarch's head would so well grace
the hat, as will that of the Hon. Geo. Q. 
Cannon, who arose to receive it, and for a
moment his feelings prevented him from
speaking, when, collecting himself, he re-
sponded in an appropriate address, given in
an eloquent and impressive style. He beg-
ged the audience to pardon his emotions—
expressed his gratitude for the many mani-
festations of kindness, respect and confi-
dence bestowed—said he esteemed this the
greatest honor he had ever received and
that he never so much realized his own un-
worthiness. He expressed his very great
happinness in being again in the midst of
the saints of God—said he had been absent on
many missions, but in many respects the
last had been different from all former ones.
It seemed almost like a visit to the spirits
in prison. He attributed all the success at-
tending his labors, to the blessing and over-
ruling providence of the Most High, the
manifestations of which, to him, had been
very strikingly visible. After many other
interesting remarks, he bore a powerful tes-
timony in favor of Pres. Young as a prophet
of God, and the acknowledged and legiti-
mate leader of this people. He said he
prayed God to bless the sisters, that from
his heart he thanked them for their kind
reception—prayed that God would keep us
in the path and, at last, crown us in his
Celestial Kingdom.
	A song, with accompaniment, by Miss
Minerva Richards followed.
	The following Address by Miss E. R.
Snow, was read by Mrs. E. Davis:
			WELCOME.
TO OUR DELEGATE, HON. GEORGE Q. CANNON.
MUCH HONORED SIR,
				We proudly welcome you,
As a true champion of the rights of man.
You fought the battle, and you fought it well.
You fought for justice and those sacred rights
Our country's Constitution guarantees
To loyal citizens.
				You fought to quell
Aggression's foaming tide—you fought for peace
The same for which our own brave Washington
Once battled—he in martial armor clad,
As standing on King George's claims, he strove
To gain the vict'ry o'er tyrannic sway;
That civil and religious freedom, might
Extend to us. He fought and won the prize.
You stood on "freedom's fair and happy soil,"
To which the oppress'd, from every land, resort:
And there opposed oppression? Yes, and that
Of blackest, direst, foulest element!
Oppression bred by hireling priests, who don
"Heaven's livery" for lucre's sake, and fed
And nursed by hungry politicians, who,
Eager of gain, would, Judas like, barter
Their country's honor, justice, freedom, all—
For what? To gratify their lust for gold.
	You, minus all the glittering pomp of spear,
And sword—all martial trappings, warrior's boast:
Went forth like David, when Goliath dared
The hosts of Israel, and confronted those 
Whose whetted teeth were ready to devour
Your people. You were armed with justice and
With truth.
			Altho' your adversaries had
Th' advantage in unequal numbers, God,
The Great Majority, was on your side:
And Brigham Young and his associates prayed
For you—not only, as the people pray
Within their churches and cathedrals, or,
At the domestic altar, where the pure
And fervent incense rises, but, they have prayed
In holy Order, as the Savior taught.
At their request, his ancient Twelve, to pray.
You knew "the race is not unto the swift,
Nor battle to the strong"—God was your trust.
	The ordeal past, like Daniel from the den—
As Shadrach, Meshek and Abednego
Went forth without the smell of fire upon
Their garments, you, unblemished have returned.
With grateful hearts, we bid you WELCOME HOME.

	Song by the Choir.
	A Welcome by Mrs. L. Greene Richards,
was read by the Secretary Mrs. E. S. Tay-
lor.
	Song, with organ accompaniment, by Miss
Lizzie Davis.
	Appropriate, instructive and cheering
addresses were then made by Presidents
Young, Smith and Wells—followed with
singing by the Choir.
	Refreshments consisting of cake, lem-
onade, candy, raisins, nuts and ice-cream
were served to the guests the number
amounting, probably, to three hundred, and
a season of general, convivial, sociability
followed, after which, the house was again
called to order and several short speeches
were made. Pres. Wells and Elder Taylor
passed high encomiums on the "Hat" and ex-
horted the people to energy and diligence
in home manufactures; Elder Cannon gave
humorous and interesting items of his ex-
perience while in Washington.
	Miss E. R. Snow proposed that, inasmuch
as all are fully satisfied with the labors of 
our Delegate, we guarantee to sustain him at 
the coming election; which was seconded
and unanimously carried, the brethren join-
ing in the vote.
	The evening passed away pleasantly and
at a quarter to eleven, the company was dis-
missed with prayer by Elder Angus Can-
non.		MRS. ELMINA S. TAYLOR, Sec.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE House of Commons, England, is
cooled by an air machine.
	OUR railroads are stripping the country of
timber for ties, etc., at the rate of 1,000,000
acres per annum.
	IT is now ascertained that the famous Cen-
tury plant, so beautiful in bloom, and yet so
rare, buds and flowers every sixteen years,
instead of once in a hundred years, as has
been long supposed.
	THERE were thirty-seven newspapers
published in the colonies on the commence-
ment of the Revolutionary War, in 1775with these began the Independence of the 
Nation. On the 1st of January, 1835, there
were 1,258 daily, semi-weekly, and weekly
newspapers issued. In 1870 there were
published in the United States 542 daily
and 4,425 weekly newspapers. The num-
ber of copies of the daily papers printed in
that year, reached, in round numbers, 800,
000,000.
	THE Domesday Book of Scotland, just 
presented to Parliament, shows that, within
a fraction, half the whole extent of Scotland
is held by 106 landowners, every one of
whom owns more than 20,000  acres. There
are 25 persons among these who own more
than 50,000 acres each. The Duke of South-
erland stands at the head of the list, having
a domain of 1,176,343 acres, in addition to
which, his wife, the Countess of Cromartie, is
the owner of 146,879 acres. The area of
their combined property is greater than that
of any county in England, except Yorkshire
and Lincolnshire.
	THE bridge to be constructed over the
Frith of Forth will be far the largest in the
world. According to the "London Builder,"
its height will be one hundred and fifty feet,
and the number of spans nearly one hun-
dred. The smaller span will be one hundred
and fifty feet wide, which is beyond the
average width of ordinary bridges; but the 
crowning marvel in the whole structure is 
the great span in the centre, which is to  be
fifteen hundred feet, or nearly one-third of
a mile—an extent unparalleled in any ex-
isting structure of the kind. The entire
cost of the bridge will be at least ten mil-
lion dollars.


AN Englishman, being asked how he
spelled saloon, replied, "With a hess, a hay,
a hell, two hoes, and a hen."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor
	CORNELLIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month; $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1874.


﻿SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	The comet, the only star that could "come
it” with a tail, has “gone from our gaze”
......The grist mill at American Fork, be-
longing to the estate of the late D. R.
Allen, was burned on the 15th ult.; loss
estimated at $7,000......Since the freight on
coal was raised on the U. P. R. R., quanti-
ties of that necessary article have been
hauled from the Weber mines on wagons
......At the Horticultural Exhibition, Miss
S. A. Walker received the prize to be given
to the young lady who should correctly
name the largest number of flowers......Two
parties of scientists, one bound for Pekin,
China, the other for Siberia, paid this city a
visit on their way. They are going to ob-
serve the transit of Venus next December
......The  "Clift House," corner of East
Temple, and 3rd South streets, has been
leased for the purpose of holding the Third
District Court in it, also for offices for the
U. S. officials......A dwelling was lately
shattered by lightning, in Brigham City......
Prof. C. J. Thomas in a public card thanks
all those who took part in the musical exer-
cises of the grand Jubilee for their “kind
and efficient aid”......J. P. Barnard while
returning to his home, six miles north of
Brigham City, fell from his wagon and died
instantly......The ladies should remember
the coming fair and be ready to contribute
their best productions to make it interest-
ing......A cheap excursion from this city to
Franklin, Idaho Ter. and intermediate pla-
ces is to take place in a few days.
		     LITERARY.
	A paper called the China News, printed
in the Chinese language has been started in
San Francisco......The late Lord Lytton, the 
English author, left three or four manu-
script plays which will shortly be published
......The "Worcester Palladium," started in
1834, is now edited and published by the 
daughters of the founder, under the title of
Helen M. Knowlton & Co.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	A new planet was discovered on the night 
of May 19, by M. Perrotin, at Toulouse.
This is the fourth discovered during the
present year......An exhibition is to be held
in the Palais Industrie, Paris, Sept. 15, of
all useful insects and their products, also of
all noxious insects and the evils they com-
mit.
			PERSONAL.
	Miss Susan E. Dickinson, a sister of Miss
Anna D., intends entering the field as a lec-
turer......[mogene, the daughter of N. P.
Willis, the poet—having married a spend
thrift, is now compelled to drudge along in
poverty......Miss Sallie A., daughter of Sam
Bowels of the Springfield Republican, hav-
ing married Mr. Hooker will soon take a
bridal tour to Europe......Gen. Beauregard
has accepted the office of Chief Engineer 
of the Argentine Republic. The induce-
ment was $25,000 a year......Mrs. Lincoln
is in Paris......Mrs. Mapleson, wife of the
director of Her Majesty's Opera, London, is
said to be the leading belle in London socie-
 ty......Mrs. Frances Ellen W. Harper is glv-
ing lectures in Illinois......Minister Jewell
is returning from St. Petersburg to assume
the duties of Postmaster General......Gen.
Garibaldi is said to be helpless through par-
alysis......Rev. H. W. Beecher is sixty-one
years old.
			ARTISTIC.
	The Academy of St. Luke—an art school
at Rome—has lately adopted a resolution to
admit women as pupils on equal terms with
men......Miss Thompson's now celebrated
picture "Roll Call at the Crimea" has be-
come the property of the Queen......Among
the exhibitors at the Royal Academy Eng-
land, this year, we noticed the names of
Miss Backhouse and Mrs. E. M. Ward, the
paintings of both artists were commended.
			GENERAL.
	The steamer "City of Guatemala," from
New York to Aspinwall, was lost off one of
the Bahamas; no lives lost......A fire in the
Boyce building, Chicago, on the 22nd ult,
destroyed property worth $250,000......
Henri Rochefort is in London......A fight
occurred between the Indians and Rangers
and U. S. cavalry on the 24th. The Ran-
gers and cavalry were repulsed with a loss
of over fourteen killed including the com-
mander of the cavalry......Another fire oc-
curred at Chicago on the 30th; loss 35,000.
The same day a fire at Danbury, Conn, de-
stroyed White's extensive fur factories......
Germany is trying to get the great powers
to recognize the Spanish Republic.......The
widow of ex-Congressman Mellish has been
appointed to a $900 clerkship in the Treas-
ury Department......On the 38th ult., the
upsetting of a kettle of boiling lard started
a fire which destroyed the landings of the
great Prince's dock at Liverpool; damage
estimated at $1,000,000......Five men were
killed by the Indians in New Mexico on the
21st......The Grangers have commenced
loading  new wheat, at San Francisco, for
the foreign market......Rev. Mr. Goodrich,
grandson of Noah Webster, died lately in
Switzerland......At Alama, Spain, a terri-
ble land slide destroyed the village; but few
escaped; 200 corpses were recovered.


TO HUSBANDS.
	Women, like children, do better when praised 
and encouraged than they can when censured
and found fault with. Husband, if you enjoy
life at home better when your wife is sweet
tempered and wears a smiling face than you do
under the influence of fretful words and a
cloudy countenance, don’t be afraid to speak
to her in a pleasant way and even to address
her with endearing words.  She should be
beautiful to you when her face bears the impress
of a cheerful and loving soul; and you need
not consider it beneath your dignity to speak
to her of these things. They are things of im-
portance. Cheerful words and looks are the
sunshine of the heart, and they enliven and
gladden it as the sunshine of summer does the
verdure of earth. If kindly encouraged to do
so, will not a wife learn to cherish a mild, sweet,
spirit that she may be pleasing to the husband
she loves, even if she were naturally given to
cross irritable ways? We think she certainly


would in ninety-nine, cases out of every hun-
dred. And she will do more even than this
for your comfort if you will but let her know
that you appreciate her efforts. Praise her en-
deavors to make a home-heaven for you, though
she may not succeed so very well at first, and
with renewed courage and strengthed faith in
her own abilities to please you, and confidence
in your appreciation of her efforts she will
never fail to study your wishes and to exe-
cute them as far as possible.


TO SUBSCRIBERS.
	Campbell & Patterson who were general
agents for the EXPONENT, previous to the pres-
ent Volume when we dropped their names,
have become bankrupt. Those who subscribed to
them for the current numbers, doubtless feel dis-
appointed at not receiving their late papers, but 
as we have received neither names nor money
we cannot tell who have subscribed till the af-
fairs of the firm are settled. While the EXPO-
NENT will thus suffer a serious loss, we intend
to make matters as satisfactory as possible to
those who subscribed to Campbell & Patter-
son while they were our agents, and if those
who hold receipts from them will send us the
same we will try and supply their full number
of papers.


THE GRAND JUBILEE.
	The twenty-seventh anniversary of Utah's
birthday was celebrated on the 24th ult., in 
this city, by a grand Jubilee or Sabbath School
children's concert, under the auspices of the
Deseret Sunday School Union. Though the af-
fair was projected over a year ago, the inter-
vening time has proved none too ample for
maturing the necessary arrangements to carry
out the original programme.
	The New Tabernacle, in which the Jubilee
was held, was richly and beautifully decorated
for the occasion. The collection of songs and ac-
companying music were original; and although,
perhaps, not perfect, should be a harbinger of
future home productions that will be better
suited to our Sabbath Schools, and, to them,
more interesting than any imported.
	Immense crowds from this, and Utah, Davis
and Weber counties collected at an early
hour, as participants and spectators, the greater
portion, of course, being juvenile singers. The
musical exercises, which was conducted by
Prof. C. J. Thomas was accomplished in a praise-
worthy manner, and was interspersed with 
speeches from President Young and other
prominent gentlemen. General satisfaction
seems to have been given, and the Jubilee may
be looked upon as a grand success.
	Much credit is due to Superintendent George
Goddard and other gentlemen and ladies, com-
prising the executive committee, for their in-
defatigable labors in consumating this mag-
nificent affair.


UTAH GAZETEER.
	We have received a copy of the "Gazeteer
of Utah and Salt Lake City Directory" edited
by Edward L. Sloan, Esq. It is of convenient
size, the binding seems to be durable and the
print clear. From a brief examination we
judge the contents to be well arranged and of
value to every one who is engaged in business
or who wishes for information concerning City
and Utah affairs. For sale at the Herald Of-
fice, price $5.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LAKE SIDE EXCURSION.
	We are requested by one of the committee to
state that the excursion to Lake Side, noticed in
our last has been postponed to the 25th of the
present month. This change in the time has
been thought advisable in consideration of the
large excursion advertised to go to Cache val-
ley soon, and also the violent storms so fre-
quent of late. By the 25th inst. the ladies hope
the weather will have become so settled that
the original programme can be carried out to
the enjoyment of all who participate.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	MATTIE GAYLORD, eminent as a lecturer, is
in town and expects to lecture this evening,
subject: Our girls, what shall we do with them."
	AS ANOTHER instance of Utah's resources a
fine quality of soapstone has been discovered
by Mr. Gibson. The deposits are said to be
within ten miles of this city and are very exten-
sive.
	E. W. EAST having declined the nomina-
tion of Justice of the Peace for the second pre-
cinct in this city, the committee have placed
George Crismon's name on the ticket for that
office.
	AN INGENIOUS invention for running street
cars with steam as a motive power, has been
introduced here recently. From the view we
had of the car and "steam dummy," as it
passed our office, on its trial trip, we think it
will be quite a success, as it seemed to be easily
controlled.
	THE PEOPLE of Box Elder County have
nominated Jonathan C. Wright for Represen-
tative to the Legislature and Samuel Smith
for Probate Judge. Davis County has nomi-
nated Anson Call and W. G. Smith for Rep-
resentatives and W. R. Smith for Probate
Judge. Both Counties support the People's
Territorial Ticket.
	IN ACCORDANCE with section four of the late
Act of Congress, better known as the "Poland
Bill," the Hon. Elias Smith Probate Judge of
Salt Lake County and Joseph E. Nounnan,
Clerk of the Third District Court, met at the
Court House on 23rd ult. and prepared a list of
persons to act as jurors. This list of names
with residences has been published in the 
daily papers.
	THE FIRE Brigade enlivened the evening of
the "Twenty-fourth" by a torchlight proces-
sion on a special train of flat open cars. They
lighted their torches at the northern limits of
the city from whence the train moved slowly
to the southern end, then returned to the Sta-
tion and run up to the Temple block where the
firemen got off and marched to the Ice Cream
Gardens to spend the remainder of the eve-
ning.
	DURING a late thunder storm, the Roman
Catholic church was struck by lightning, at-
tracted by the cross on the dome. Part of the
dome and one of the pillars that supported the
gallery, were shattered and some other damage
done. The lightning is supposed to have made
its exit through one of the windows. A gen-
tleman, who, with two ladies, one on either
side, was walking past at the time was knocked
down by the flash while the ladies were un-
touched.
	THE DESERET Horticultural Society, held
its first regular exhibition July 15th, 16th
and 17th, to the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms.
Such exhibitions enable professional garderners,
and others to present before the public the
choicest specimens of fruit, flowers, and other
productions that would be out of season when
the territorial fair is held in the autumn. The
display of fruits, flowers and vegetables this year
was fine; and among the attractions pre-
sented was a minature landscape, composed of
a variety of materials, the artistic work, chiefly
of Mrs. E. M. Barnum.
	A PUBLIC CAUCUS was held at Logan, Cache
Co., July 25th, C. C. Hurst was chosen chair-
man and J. A. Leishman, Secretary. A com-
mittee was appointed to nominate precinct
officers and consider the previous doings of the
county convention. The nominations of the
county caucus which included B. Young, Jr.
and W. B. Preston for Representatives in the
Legislature and M. D. Hammond for Probate
Judge were endorsed; also the Peoples Territo-
rial Ticket. Several nominations for precinct
officers were made after which the meeting was
adjourned.
	DELEGATES FROM the different precincts in
Weber county met in convention in Ogden on
the 18th ult., after effecting an organization,
with T. A. Brown as chairman, they adopted
a ticket of territorial and local officers to be vo-
ted for soon. Among the names were: Geo.
Q. Cannon for Congressional Delegate; John
Van Cott, Lewis S. Hills and John Robbery,
Commissioners to locate University lands;
Lorin Farr and Chas. W. Penrose, Representa-
tives to the Legislature; F. D. Richards, Pro-
bate Judge. The Circular published by the
People's Territorial Committee was read
and adopted by the Convention which re-
solved itself into a committee to co-operate
with the central People's Committee. These
items we gather from the Ogden Junction.
	SCHOOL TEACHERS and those who intend to
teach in this county should read the following
notice taken from the Des. News. Such ex-
aminations, we believe, tent greatly to improve
the grade of teachers and those who cannot
pass satisfactorily learn of their deficiencies
and what they must do to come up to the prop-
er standard:
	"A second examination for the school teach-
ers of Salt Lake County will be held in the
University Building, Salt Lake City, on Sat-
urday, Aug. 8th, commencing at 9 a.m. Teach-
ers should come prepared with pens, paper,
and ink, as the examination will be conduct-
ed primarily by manuscript, also with a cer-
tificate of good moral character.
	$2.50 will be charged each applicant, to de-
fray expenses.
		Board			O. H. RIGGS,
		   of				JOHN R. PARK,
	   Examination.		H. I. DOREMUS.
	THOMAS WILLIAMS, Esq., widely and favor-
ably known in the community died unexpect-
edly on the 17th of last month. Early in the
afternoon he went home to his dinner and
while seated at table suddenly commenced to
vomit blood. After throwing up considerable
blood he lay on the sofa to rest but was very
weak and apparently unable to answer when
addressed. Soon after his eyes were closed in
death. A coroner's inquest held the same eve-
ning, rendered the verdict that he died from
the bursting of a blood vessel. He was born
at Newport, Mon, England. His life was such
that he won the love and esteem of all who
knew him and it could be said that his friends
were as numerous as his acquaintances. He
was a member of the church High Council,
Treasurer of the general Z. C. M. I., member
of the City Council, part proprietor, and one
of the Managers of the Theatre. The obsequies
held at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, were
very largely attended and the funeral proces-
sion comprised over eighty vehicles.


FLORAL HINTS.
				   —
	TO REVIVE WILTED CUTTINGS.—Hearth
and Home says, "mix three or four drops of
spirits of camphor with an ounce of water
and keep their stems in this fluid for half a
day or more, in a dark place, till they have
entirely recovered."
	TRAINING THE WISTARIA.—Wistarias are
naturally climbing vines, but are readily
trained into almost any form that may suit
one's fancy. I have a plant trained as a
dwarf shrub; it is four feet high and about
five feet across the branches, there being
upon it at this time 271 drooping clusters
or racemes, each nearly a foot long, of bluish
purple flowers. It is not difficult to train the
Wistaria as a self-supporting shrub, it being
only necessary to pinch off the ends of the
young shoots in summer, thereby restrict-
ing its growth to prescribed limits. This
constant checking of growth in summer
causes a rapid increase in fruit, or fruiting
spurs upon all the branches, the result of
which appears in the profusion of flowers
the ensuing season. If any one has a Wis-
taria of any variety or species which fails to
bloom satisfactorily, they have only to ap-
ply the "pinching" process to correct any
tardiness in this respect.—R. N. Yorker.
	STRONG FERTILIZER.—It represents the
fertilizing principles of at least one hundred
times its weight of concentrated animal
manure, and supplies to the plants nitrogen,
phosphorus, potash, sulphur, and iron in
a completely soluble state. The compound
consists of 400 parts of nitrate of ammonia;
200 parts biphosphate of ammonia; 250
parts nitrate of potash; 50 parts muriate
of ammonia; 60 parts sulphate of lime, and
40 parts sulphate of iron. These ingredi-
ents are pulverized and mixed. One dram
of the powder (about a teaspoonful) is then
dissolved in a quart of water and a wine-
glassful of the solution given two or three
times a week, in accordance with the health
and luxuriance of the vegitation.
	The plants may be placed in any kind of
earth, however poor, even pure sand, or
may not be potted at all. It is stated that
certain flowers, the fuchsia, for example, may
be cultivated without earth by simply plac-
ing the stalk in a jar, at the bottom of which
is an inch or so of water, just sufficient to
cover the ends of the roots. To the fluid a
proportional quantity of the fertilizer is
added, as above specified, once in eight days.
The foliaceous development of plants treated
with the substance is said to be truly won-
derful, and yet the rapid growth of the
leaves does not interfere with the most lux-
uriant flowering. To this we may add that
quite recently we have tried a compound
hastily composed of the majority of the sub-
stances above detailed, merely as an experi-
ment, on a small and sickly fuchsia. The
plant was drooping and little else remained
than a half dry stalk. After two applica-
tions of the fertilizer, its effect was appar-
ent, and at the end of ten days, during
which probably half a pint of the solution
had been supplied to the earth, new shoots
had sprung out, leaves formed, and the en-
tire plant became perfectly loaded down with
buds.—Scientific American.


SPEAKING of the half-naked statue of
Washington, which cost $50,000, in the
East Capitol Park, Grace Greenwood wittily
says that his outstretched arms point re-
proachfully towards the glass cases in the
Patent Office, where hang his much-desired
habiliments.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


OVER AND OVER AGAIN.

Over and over again,
	No matter which way I turn,
I always find in the Book of Life
	Some lesson I have to learn.
I must take my turn at the mill,
	I must grind out the golden grain,
I must work at my task with a resolute will,
Over and over again.

Over and over again
	The brook through the meadow flows,
And over and over again
	The ponderous mill-wheel goes.
Once doing will not suffice,
	Though doing be not in vain,
And a blessing failing us once or twice.
	May come if we try again.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
					—
	Entertaining Visitors.—It has always seemed to
me that the social relations of civilized people, and
especially of women, were strange inconsistencies.
A woman, or a company of women, about to visit
a neighbor for an afternoon must send word a day
or two beforehand, that there may be previous
cooking, baking and fussing, or be left alone in the
parlor to entertain themselves as best they can,
while the one with whom they intended to have a
social chat is bustling about in the kitchen in a
great heat and hurry to prepare as many and as rich
and costly cakes and nicknacks for them as they
could prepare for her; not that she cares for such
things herself—she would much rather have a little
time for rest and sociability; not that she thinks
her visitors have come for the purpose of getting
something to eat (though there are many who, tak-
ing advantage of social customs, visit for that very
purpose), but because it is a foolish, sinful practice
among people, to see which can outdo the other in
such matters. If word is received by a family that
near and dear friends or relatives from a distance
are about to visit them, instead of planning and ar-
ranging their work so as to have time for conversa-
tion and intellectual communion, the whole household
is thrown into a great worry and excitement in re-
gard to the furnishing and arranging of rooms, and
to the quality, quantity and style of edibles that
shall be put upon their table; and instead of being
in a pleasant, social mood to receive their guests
when they arrive, perhaps after a tiresome journey,
they are worn out with their exertions to make an
outside show that, had they the time, they have no
disposition nor ability for social intercourse, and
the visit that was looked forward to with many
anticipations of pleasure and profit, proves to be a
sad disappointment to one party, and a burden and
vexation to the other.
	I do not wish to be understood as advocating
slackness or indifference in regard to these things;
so far as is consistent with our duties and circum-
stances, we should attend to the personal wants and
comforts of our guests; but the concocting of rich
articles of food, that were better never to be eaten,
to the exclusion of pleasant cheer, the scrupulous-
ness in regard to style in preparing and furnishing
rooms to the exclusion of the home-feeling, for
the sake of not being outdone by our neighbors, is
altogether wrong, and productive of much evil.
Besides the injury done our social natures, there is
too apt to be. on such occasions, an overtaxing of
the strength of housekeepers, wives and mothers.
—R. N. Yorker.

	Glue Pot.—Nothing about a house is more use-
ful than a glue pot, so many things may be repaired
by means of it. If the knobs on the bureau
drawers become loose they can be speadily fastened
again by the timely application of a little glue. If
the thread of the screw has become worn put on
some glue, and then wind on some flax or tow if
you have it, or a soft rag, then put on more glue
and fasten on the knob and it is all right. If pieces
of veneering fall off the furniture they can be re-
placed by means of glue and a feather, and many
other things can be mended that make quite a say-
ing in a household.


Removing Glass Stoppers.—The easiest way to
take out a stopper which has become fixed in the
neck of a bottle is to reverse the motion given to it
when putting it in, that is to knock the stopper
from right to left. In most instances when a stop-
per is fixed, without the intervention of an adhe-
sive substance, it is by turning it as one would
drive a screw. The direction is almost invariably
from  left to right, and thus a thread is formed
which is easier to follow backwards than to break.
The trouble with which the removal of stoppers is
usually attended must form my apology for intro-
ducing a suggestion of so little apparent importance.
—Can. Med. Record.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	EFFECTS OF INSUFFICIENT SLEEP.—The
following if true, and we do not see why it
may not be, shows plainly that it is unwise
for anyone to deprive themselves of the full
amount of sleep nature will grant them:
	A writer on the subject of sleep, mentions
a curious case of a literary man, who, for
nearly a year, while intently engaged in a
favorite study, restricted his period of rest
to four hours a day, and frequently less. At
the end of that time the overtasking of his
mental powers was manifested in a curious
way. He told the physician that, though
still able to maintain a connected line of
reasoning, he found that as soon as he at-
tempted to record his ideas on paper the
composition turned out to be simply a tissue
of arrant nonsense. When in the act of
writing, his thoughts flowed so rapidly that
he was not conscious of the disconnected
nature of what he was writing; but as soon
as he stopped to read it over he was aware
how completely he had misrepresented his
conceptions. If the language happened to
be at all intelligible, it was sure to have no
relation to the ideas he wished to express.
Thus, wishing to obtain a book from a friend,
he found that, instead of the request, he
had written the prayer of Socrates, as given
by Plato.

	AVOIDING A CHILL.—Multitudes of wo-
men lose health, and even life every year
by busying themselves until warm and
weary, and then throwing themselves on a
bed or sofa without covering, or in a room
without a fire, or by removing their outer
garments after a long walk, and changing 
their dress while in a state of perspiration.
If you have to walk and ride both, do the rid-
ing first, and on returning go to a warm 
room, and keep on all your wraps until your
forehead is dry.

	FELONS AND RUSTY NAIL-WOUNDS.--El-
der Evans, the Shaker, says:—For the past
ten years we have treated felons with hot
water, and with unerring success. No cut-
ting, no blistering, no anything, but immer-
sing the finger, hand, or even the whole
arm if necessary, in water as hot as can be
borne, until the pain is gone and the core is
loosened and drawn from the bone. When
rusty nails have produced wounds, the same
course has been pursued. If on the hand
or foot, keep it in hot water.

	HEALTHFUL WALKING.—Serious think-
ing, when we are walking, or taking any
other exercise, very soon fatigues us; but if
we give ourselves up to amusing thoughts,
or the conversation of agreeable and intelli-
gent friends, the exercise is restorative.
Those exercises which give motion to the
body, and at the same time amuse the mind,
such as cricket, boating, bowls or tennis are
particularly serviceable. In taking exercise
for health, it is always desirable to have an
object in view; such as a call at the house of


a friend, to see some beauty of nature, a
prospect, a tree, a stream, or some castle,
ruin, nay, even a modern shop, or rail via-
duct; the man in search of health should
not "take a walk" merely to take a walk.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WHAT requires more philosophy than
taking things as they come? Parting with
things as they go.

	WISCONSIN wont let clergymen kiss the
bride any more, and fees have jumped from
fifty cents to five dollars.

	RETIRE to bed early and rise early, thus
saving lamp oil and doctor's fees, and im-
proving your complexion.

	A VERMONT preacher who sarcastically
asked his congregation to pray for the editor
of the local paper, recently, had a bill sent
to him for thirteen years' subscription to
that paper and $300 worth of religious no-
tices.

	THE venerable Dr. Moffat, Dr. Living-
stone's father-in-law, recently delivered a
lecture in London on the illustrious traveler.
Dr. Moffat alluded particularly to his natu-
ral inquiring mind, which manifested itself
from a very early age, to the peculiarly high
class of literature which he studied, and to
the fact that he, like the lecturer, never
read novels or went to a theatre. The char-
acter of Livingstone was, he said, ever sim-
ple, and this was a source of great strength
throughout his whole life.

	TWENTY-ONE years ago, a daughter of
Pete Hawk, Esq. of Stroudsburg, Pa., was
bitten by a mad dog. Although cattle bit-
ten by the same dog were seized with hy-
drophobia, the girl did not show any symp-
toms of the disease. She grew to woman-
hood, and was married. Recently, as she
was raising a glass of water to her lips, a
shudder ran through her, and in a few min-
utes she was seized with hydrophobia in its
worst form. A number of physicians were
called, but they could do nothing for her.
She died in great agony.

	GIRLS, let us tell you a stubborn truth.
No young woman ever looked so well to a
sensible man as when dressed in neat, plain,
modest attire, without a single ornament
about her person. She looks then as though
she possessed worth in herself, and needed
no artificial rigging to enhance her value.
If a young woman would spend as much
time in cultivating her temper, and cher-
ishing kindness, meekness, gentleness,
mercy, and other qualities, as most of them
do in extra dress and ornaments to increase
their personal charms, she would at a glance,
be known among a thousand. Her charac-
ter would be read in her countenance.

	THE argument against the higher educa-
tion of women upon physical grounds is be-
ing vigorously and most successfully at-
tacked. The statistics of the colleges, open
to women show that hard study, even dur-
ing the early period of womanhood, does
not tell in weakened health of the gradu-
ates whose health is as a rule better than
that of women who never attempted to
cope intellectually with men. In the cur-
rent number of the "Popular Science
Monthly," Dr. Van Walker has an article
on the "Genisis of Woman," his conclusion
being that the young woman is as able to
sustain uninterrupted physical and intellect-
ual work as the young man.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
	THE UNITED ORDER.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	You extend a general invitation to your
readers, to exercise their pens for exchange
of ideas through your columns. I do not
know whether the subject now in my mind
may be wisely presented, or acceptable but
my pen is prompted by a sincere interest to
learn further through the response of others.
My mind has dwelt much upon the United
Order, organized last spring in St. George,
and since accepted by many of our settle-
ments. It has interested me more than any
other principle of our doctrine; and has been
a continual feast for reflection, an encour-
agement, a gladness, and has shone like a
clear light upon many passages of scripture
heretofore not understood by me, O! how
thankful we should be that our spirits bear
witness to the truth of so important and
joyful an advancement of the work in which
we are engaged.
	It seems a first principle of our nature to
desire explanation of everything new pre-
sented to our understandings. Does the
parent always so gratify the child when re-
questing the performance of some duty?
Not always, prompt obedience is the parental
exaction. Could the elder, who baptized
us, tell us then, all the degrees of knowledge
we would pass through in the future; what
new laws we might have made known to 
us? No, we embraced what we then were
taught and understood, expecting more to
follow for our acceptance. Why should we
argue that if we cannot see the wisdom of a
requirement, it cannot be of imperative im-
portance? I call it weakness, folly. Be-
cause a beginner cannot see through the
higher branches of mathematics, or the
wonderful system of astronomy, is no reason
those systems are not true or that the teacher
does not comprehend them. We have been
told, often, that great events await us sooner
than we will be prepared for them. Oh!
let us not waste the precious "last days" in
unavailing controversy with the truth of
the Bible and latter-day revelations, speak-
ing clearly unto our spirits but let us hasten
to toil in the work divine. Indecision,
watching by her faintly glimmering taper,
sees not the wave washing beneath the rock
on which she stands. Christ said, "Blessed
are they that have not seen, and yet have
believed." How inconsistent we are! We
pray for every temporal blessing—for crowns
of glory and lives immortal—we want even
the privilege of dwelling in the presence of
the King of kings and Lord of lords; and,
finally, throw in ourselves and our earthly
all, as a mite in exchange, thinking we will
be only too glad to do so. But on being
taken at our word, we swell with the con-
templation of our own importance and free
agency, and independently withdraw our
earthly all, and ourselves too, perhaps. So
much do we make idols of these things
which perish in the using; these beautiful,
shining, bubble-beads, that we cannot loose
our grasp on them, even to take our heav-
enly crowns.
	How many later converts have repined
because they never had the privilege of
sharing in the early persecutions endured
by the Saints, "I would like to be tried and
proven." Well, be proven in this matter.
"O! but this is different, I don't mean any-
thing of this kind, I mean something soul-
trying, something between us and our ene-
mies; I don't want to be tried by my own
people, that isn't the thing." Well, fellow-
saint, if you'll keep to the Mormon pro-
gramme, you'll have all the outside persecu-
tion you want, and perhaps the martyr's 
crown, too; for the struggle between Satan
and God's saints will last till the Almighty
choose to hold the rebels still, by his strong
right hand.
	Why do the world so hate us? Not be-
cause they consider prosperity, power and
virtue hateful; for the whole world is crowd-
ing to grasp the first two and when they
wish to appear their best, assume the third.
Not one of our enemies but would leap
gladly to the eminence of power our leader
possesses; yet they hate him for their own
lack of power, and because he is a man to
conquer circumstances.
	It is written that our Savior must be re-
tained in the heavens. "until the restitution
of all things." If we we look with desire
for His coming and to hear the welcome
words, "Well done thou good and faithful 
servant;" should we not be swifter to do
His expressed will, to be ready ourselves,
have our houses in order and our lamps well
filled? Among those desiring the blessings
of Abraham, how many consider the great
example of his life and that we must imi-
tate his example, to the extent of our abili-
ties, to purchase or obtain similar blessings?
I have no doubt he lived this same law. I
can think of no more heroic, pathetic or
beautiful example of entire trust in, and
obedience to God than the offering up, in
sacrifice, of his human heart's best treasure,
his beloved son. That act stands a perpet-
ual monument of the sublime and entire de-
votion of his whole being to the will of his
Father; even Him who, in the meridian of
time gave His only begotten Son a sacrifice
for the sins of the world. Who were they
He died to save? His brothers and sisters,
children of the same Heavenly Father. O!
the beauty, the grandeur, the salvation of
faith and obedience, of self-abnegation! By
it the height and end are reached. Christ
prayed in his last prayer on earth that we
might be one. How much that prayer re-
veals to us. If he is our elder brother, and
this earth is to be his kingdom, temporally
as well as spiritually; then is it easy to see
how we will become heirs and joint heirs
with Christ, if we are members in this
United Order. Through this, our children
may become legal heirs to this kingdom's 
temporal and spiritual riches. I rejoice in
the thought that through our united spirits
and labors—when the calamities of wars,
famines, pestilences and other horrors sweep
the earth—our little ones will have legal
right to be shielded by the united strength
of our fathers, husbands and brothers; and
fed from the great harvest house of the
Saints. I would rather my little ones had a
share in this "Order" than in any other In-
surance Co. in the world. And in my hum-
ble but sincere judgement, no Mormon woman
should so dilute her faith, as to give herself
in marriage to any man opposed to this Or-
der. As a gossip once said unconsciously,
(upon a different theme) "I'd rather die an
old maid and be a ministering angel and
carry news." Let us be united and inde-
pendent of what may be said or done against
us; fearless and not ashamed to follow God's
revelations to us. If we yield to the enemy
he is only half our friend, we are in thrall-
dom and weaken our stronghold of defense.
	8th Ward, City.			A. J. C.


A THIRTEEN year old girl of Belvidere,
Vt., took care of a sugar orchard of eighty-
five trees, all alone, last spring.

	NEVER nod to an auctioneer unless you
wish either to buy or be sold.


A MOTHER'S TACT.

	The mother was sewing busily, and Josie,
sitting on the carpet beside her, and provid-
ed with rounded scissors and some old
magazines, was just as busy cutting out
pictures.
	"It would litter up the carpet so," said
Aunt Martha who had come in for a cosy
chat. Mamma knew this; but knew, too,
that a minute's work would make all right
again, and Josie was happy.
	All went well till the little boy found that
he had cut of a leg of a horse he considered
a marvel of beauty. It was a real disap-
pointment and grief to the little one.
	"Mamma, see!" and half crying he held
it up.
	"Play he's holding up one foot," said the
mother quickly.
	"Do real horses, mamma?"
	"Oh, yes, sometimes."
	"I will."
	And sunshine chased away the cloud that
in another minute would have rained down.
	It was a little thing, the mother's answer,
but the quick sympathy, ready tact, made
all right. The boy's heart was comforted,
and he went on with his play, while the
mother sewed quietly, with no jar of nerves
or temper, and auntie's call lost none of its
pleasantness.
	"I'm tired of cutting pictures, mamma,"
said Josie, after a while.
	"Well, get your horse-wagon, and play
those bits of paper are wood, and you're go-
ing to bring me a load. Draw it over to
that corner by the fire, and put them into
the kindling-box. Play that's the wood-
house."	
	Pleased and proud, the little teamster
drew load after load, till all the papers were
picked up, without ever thinking he was
doing anything but play.
	"Well, I declare," said Aunt Martha;
"old as I am, I've learned one thing to-day,
and I wish Emily would come in and take
lessons, I do."
	Mrs. Wade looked up in surprise.
	"What do you mean?"
	"Well, I spent yesterday afternoon over
there," (the old lady had a weakness for
visiting, and was "auntie" to people gener-
ally), and things were in a snarl and high-
de-low all the time—starting with less than
Josie's given you a dozen times since I've
sat here. I've had a good talk with you, and
you've given me pleasant thoughts for a
week to come; over there we couldn't hear
ourselves speak. It was, 'Don't do that,'
and 'You naughty child,' spill and scratch,
and break and tumble, scold and slap, half
the time. Emily means well; she loves her
children, and never spares herself sewing
for them, or nursing them when they're
sick. She has a world of patience some
ways, but she don't seem to have any facul-
ty for managing them. Well, I'll send her
over here, only I won't let on why;" and the
old lady rolled up her knitting; then the
bell rang for tea.
	A little tact, springing from thoughtful
love, how good it is.


A LITTLE child in Georgia recently saved
its foolish father from suicide. Disgusted
with his poverty, though he seems to have
had good health, a Mr. Meredith, of Cusseta,
loaded a double-barreled shot-gun and put
the muzzle to his head. His child ran up
as he fired and knocked the weapon to one
side. The man's life was saved, and he
should live to work, if only for the sake of
that little child.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	The following extract is from an able article in
the Sacramento Record reviewing Professor Gold-
win Smith's arguments against woman suffrage:
"The truth is, that this slurring way of speaking
about female judgment is merely impertinence, nei-
ther warranted by experience, justified by the rules
of candid discussion, nor worthy of a logical scien-
tific reasoner. The man who can deliberately as-
sert that any political judgment reached by any
class of women is likely to be more dangerous,
more imbecile or more fatuous, than the judgment
reached by our western farmers in regard to the
railroad question and the currency, is simply inca-
pable of drawing fair deductions from the facts of
history. But there is no reason whatever for be-
lieving that women would make great blunders in
politics; and that they would war upon man's fa-
vorite ideas; or that, supposing them to have a ma-
jority, the men would revolt against their decisions.
In the Territory of Wyoming, where the experi-
ment of woman suffrage has had a fair trial, it is
found that the influence of women in politics is
just what its advocates have maintained that it
would be, elevating and purifying. It is not found
that the men rebel against the efforts of the women
to reform social abuses, but that they are converted
to their views, and finally aid them in carrying out
the reform sought. And this is the natural result
of according women equal political rights. We do
not anticipate any marked improvement in Govern-
ment from such an extention of the suffrage, be-
cause we know that women are incapacitated, by
long exclusion, for a really active and interested
participation in political agitation at the beginning.
But they possess at least as much intelligence as
men; and they are infinitely purer and more refined.
They will therefore affect the lower phases of pol-
itics first. They will elevate elections above the
plane of the rum-mill, the rowdy and the striker.
They will introduce to the polls not only quiet con-
duct but decent language. They will, perhaps un-
conciously, infuse the filthy pool of politics with a
stream of cleanliness, which will tend continually
to purify its murkiness and render it sweeter and
less objectionable."


WHAT IT IS TO BE A WIDOW.

	"I think it must be a jolly thing to be a
young widow!" I heard this remark the
other day, in a group of laughing girls. I
think I remember saying such a thing my-
self in my girlish times. Do you know,
girls, what it is to be a widow? It is to be
ten times more open to comment and criti-
cism than any demoiselle possibly could be.
It is to have men gaze  as you pass, first at
your black dress and then at your widow's
cap, until your sensitive nerves quiver un-
der the infliction. It is to have one ill-na-
tured person say, "I wonder how long she
will wait before she marries again?" and
another answers, "Until she gets a good
chance, I suppose." It is now and then to
meet the glance of real sympathy, generally
from the poorest and most humble woman
you meet, and feel your eyes fill at the to-
ken, so rare, that is, so unlooked for. It is
to have your dear fashionable friends con-
sole you after the following fashion: "Oh,
well! it is a dreadful loss. We know how
you feel it, dear." And in the next breath,
"You will be sure to marry again, and your
widow's cap is very becoming to you." But 
it is more than this to be a widow. It is to 
miss the strong arm you have leaned upon,
the true faith which you knew could never
fail you, though all the world might forsake 
you. It is to miss the dear voice that ut-
tered your name with tenderness that none
other could give it. It is to hear no more
the well-known footsteps that you flew
gladly once to meet. To see no more the


face that to your adoring eyes seemed as the
face of, the angels of God; to feel no more
the twining arms that folded you so loving-
ly; the dear eyes, that looking into your
own, said plainly whatever it seemed to
others, yours was the fairest face earth held
for him. It is to fight with a mighty sor-
row as a man fights with the waves that
overwhelm him, and to hold it at arm’s
length for awhile, only to have—in the
hours of loneliness and weakness—the storm
roll over you, while—poor storm driven dove
—you see no heaven.


FLOWERS.

	THE contented man is never poor; the
discontented never rich.
	Instruction is to the human intellect, what
cultivation is to the soil.
	ADVICE, like snow, the softer it falls, the
longer it dwells upon, and the deeper it
sinks into, the mind.
	A TEACHER who is attempting to teach
without inspiring the pupils with a desire
to learn is hammering on cold iron.—Hor-
ace Mann.
	A SANCTIFIED heart is better than a sil-
ver tongue; a heart full of grace is better
than a head full of notions; a man may be
a great scholar, and yet be a great sinner.
	FAITH IN WORK.—We should not for-
sake a good work because it does not ad-
vance with a rapid step. Faith in virtue,
truth, and Almighty goodness, will save us
alike from rashness and despair.
	APPLICATION.—It cannot be too deeply
impressed upon the mind, that application is
the price to be paid for mental acquisitions,
and that it is as absurd to expect them with-
out it, as to hope for a harvest where we
have not sown the seed.
	IT is a good and safe rule to sojourn in
every place as if you meant to spend your
life there, never omitting an opportunity of
doing a kindness or speaking a true word,
or making a friend. Seeds thus sown by the
wayside often bring forth an abundant har-
vest.
	THE book, as a companion, is always at
your service, always willing and pliable.
You meet with men of service, good think-
ers, good speakers, and you do not know
how to draw them out; but a book is always
open to your wish, and shuts when you de-
sire, something which your professor might
not do. In saying this for books, I do not
forget that they are merely secondary.


An intelligent and sparkling-eyed boy, of
ten summers, sat upon the steps of his fa-
ther’s dwelling, deeply absorbed in a highly
embellished but pernicious book, calculated
to poison and degrade the young mind.
His father, approaching, at a glance discov-
ered the character of the book. 
	“George, what have you there?”
	The little fellow looking up with a con-
fused air, promptly gave the name of the
author. The father gently remonstrated,
pointed out to him the danger of reading
such books, and left him with the book clos-
ed by his side.
	In a few moments the father discovered a
light, and on enquiring the cause, it was as-
certained that the little fellow had consigned
the pernicious book to the flames.
	“My son, what have you done?”
	“Burnt that book, papa.”
	“How came you to do that, George?”


"Because, Papa, I believed you knew bet-
ter than I what was for my good."
	"But would it not have been better to have
kept the leaves for other purposes, rather
than destroy them?"
	"Papa, might not others have read and
been injured by them?"

	LET us cherish good humor and Chris-
tian cheerfulness. Let us endeavor to shake
off that sulleness which makes us so uneasy
to ourselves, and to all who are near us.
Anger, fretfulness, and peevishness prey
upon the tender fibers of our frame, and in-
jure our health.


DOCTOR CROCKWELL.
	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases, 
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untlmely ad-
vent.	
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward Fourth
East St, Salt Lake City.  

				H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three 
				storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2  BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
			Where he is prepared to do a 
	WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase. 

				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothlng shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
thc followlng liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume: 
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, -	-	-	-	-	18.00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 	-	-	-	-	-	26.00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of  
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34.00
30 copies, l year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48.00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole  or half year. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address. 
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
 
