UTAH AND THE MORMONS.

	For a couple of weeks past we have scarcely
opened a newspaper that had not something to
say about Utah, the Mormons, polygamy, and
so on; some calling for stern, repressive legisla-
tion by Congress, against the “enormities of
the Mormons,” and others advocating a more
charitable and humane policy.
	Utah is unpopular with a certain class, and
they indulge in prolonged pharisaic howls
against the people who built up this Territory,
until the masses, who kuow nothing of the
actual state of affairs in Utah, are led to believe
that the “Mormons” are a horrible people
whom it would be doing God’s service to annhi-
latc, destroy, kill off, or in some way put them
out of existence to prevent them from galling
a sanctimonious but corrupt set of Aminidab
Sleeks, who profess morality, yet whose hypoc-
risy is glaringly exposed by the moral,
industrious and temperate habits of the Latter-
day Saints.
	The great outcry is raised against polygamy,
stigmatized as the sole remaining relic of bar-
barism which afflicts or disgraces the country.
Oh great and glorious country! unequalled
people who have no fouler stain upon their 
national escutcheon than tins, and it confined 
to a few valleys in the heart of the continent!
What a proud spectacle does that land present
where nothing but the purest chastity can be
found; where no places devoted to vice exists
in its great cities or smaller towns; where civil-
ization has elevated the people until they have
gained the complete mastery over every passion
and appetite; and where there is nothing to
disturb the serenity of their souls but the faith
of a single and not very numerous community;
that faith, too, inculcating the strictest chastity,
and holding virtue as a pearl above price, while
contending that plural marriages are consonant
with morality, physiology, and the revealed
will of the Almighty as expressed in the Scrip-
tures! But it may be that those who bestir
themselves so actively in this matter really
discard every principle and practice of the patri-
archal times, called by them “the age of
barbarism.” Honor and honesty were con-
sidered worthy the respect of all in those
barbaric times, and they are evidently but
lightly regarded now. Men were temperate
then and lived to a good old age; now they
boast of their intemperance, and hurry to
premature graves. People then were simple in
their tastes, moderate in their habits, and easely
satisfied. Now, wealth is eagerly sought after
to minister to a thousand idle fancies, or worse
still, to gratify appetites that revel in debauch-
ery. Honesty, industry, temperance and frugal
habits being relics of barbarism, the present
"civilized" age, it would appear, desires to be
rid of them, lest they, too, with that other bar-
baric practice of plural marriage, should stain
the proud escutcheon of progress which flaunts
so loftily on the breeze inscribed "Excelseor,"
	An apostle of old strongly inculcated charity
as the greatest of the virtues, and a proverb of
less ancient date says charity should begin at
home. We recommend to these very pious
people throughout the country, who are so
strongly exercised over the condition of Utah,
to open their eyes and look around them, and
see what a vast field there is, within sight of
their very doors, for the philanthropist, the re-
former and the man or woman of real charity
to labor in. And we can assure those at a dis-
tance, that the men in Utah who make the
loudest outcry against the immorality of the
"Mormons," are themselves the most immoral
men in the country, and openly boast that they
only use this cry as a means of stirring up pre-
judice to enable them to accomplish designs
which it were flattery to characterize as base.


