EDITORIAL NOTES.
			     —
	THE "EPIZOOTIC" has reached Denver, 
Colorado. 	That is getting uncomfortably
near. 
	AN EASTERN paper says Susan B. An-
thony stands up for her rights like a man;
and considers it a compliment. 
	ITALY CONTINUES to reduce the number
of her brigands and professional murderers
by sending them as emigrants to the United
States. 
	PARDONING CONVICTS has become a popu-
lar pastime for State governors. The
goveror of Ohio was asked the other day to
pardon a batch of three hundred at a sitting,
but he took time to think it over.
	TWO EXPEDITIONS are to start simultan-
eously from England for extreme opposite
points; one to attempt the discovery of the
North Pole, and the other the South Pole.
They are likely to find something; ice, cer-
tainly, if nothing of greater public interest
	BARNUM HAD his great menagerie and
circus destroyed by fire in New York, and
immediately telegraphed to Europe for half
a million dollars worth of curiosities. Three
times burned out, he rises each time with
the occasion—and gets the newspapers to
tell of it. Shrewd advertising.
	THE ILLINOIS State woman’s suffrage
association will assist Susan B. Anthony in
her trial by every means in their power.
They consider the indignity to which she
has been subjected, in being imprisoned
because of casting her ballot as an American
citizen, as offered to the entire women of
America.
	AN ORDINANCE was introduced in the St.
Louis City Council, to repeal what is known
as the "Social Evil” act, under which fallen
women are licensed to pursue their fearful
traffic; and it was almost unanimously re-
jected. An ordinance requiring men who
patronize the places and persons thus
licensed, to be also licensed, would have
been rejected as unanimously. Such is a
specimen of governing “justice.”
	THE DRIVER of a New York street car,
seeing a young girl grossly insulted by a
ruffian, a couple of weeks ago, and noticing
that neither the passengers nor the con-
ductor interfered, stopped his car, thrashed
the scoundrel, threw him into the street,
and gave him in charge of a policeman.
That car-driver should have a monument,
subscribed for by defenceless ladies who
know what it is to be insulted by “gentle-
men” of the stamp that he punished so
promptly and justly. 
	ICE GORGES, in some parts of the eastern
rivers, such as the Missouri and Ohio, hav-
ing collected during the terrible storm
which raged in the latter part of December;
in their breaking up with a cessation of the
extreme cold, did immense damage in
several places, sweeping away docks, crush-
ing down coal barges, and crashing through
river steamers. Over half a million dollars
worth of property was thus destroyed in the
last eight days of December. This might
be reckoned among “the signs of the times.”
	IT IS reported that a Connecticut clergy-
man has resigned because his pious flock
[new column]
wouldn't let him play croquet. If he wished
to make a woman or “a tall girl” of himself,
why not let him? Or did they think that a
little healthy muscular exercise would drive
away misanthropic feelings, and that he
would not be able to picture the nethermost
pit with sufficiently harrowing vividness to
suit them, if he indulged in a game of
croquet?
	“SPEAK NOT thou evil of dignitaries” is
the rule to be observed in the French re-
public. A man in Lyons, some little time
ago, called Thiers “a stupid fool," and he
was promptly “jerked up” and sent to
prison. Had this rule of swift punishment
been followed during the late Presidential
campaign in this country, there is scarcely
sufficient hemp in the Union to have made
ropes enough for the necks of those who
would have had to be hanged. France is a
unique republic, of the old Venetian stripe.
	AN EASTERN paper—the Washington
“Star”—under date December 27, 1872,
says: “Sidney Rigdon, author of the Mor-
mon Bible, is dead.” It will be news to the
Latter-day Saints to learn that Sidney Rig-
don was the author of the Old and New
Testament, which form the “Mormon
Bible;” or that he was the author of the
“Book of Mormon,” which is probably what
is meant; or, indeed, that he was the
author of any really good book, although he,
at one time, held a high position in the
Church, but fell from grace through ambi-
tion, as did Lucifer.
	PLANT TREES. Thirty years ago, says an
exchange, Mrs. Lydia Wilson, of Raisin,
Michigan, stuck a willow-riding whip in
the ground and now it measures ten feet in
circumference and spreads over eighty-four
feet. Plant trees; fruit trees; shade trees, mul
berry trees to feed silk worms, or forest trees.
You leave a blessing to posterity which they
will appreciate in years to come. The
Oriental custom of planting a fruit tree on
the birth of each child is one that could be
adopted in the western world to advantage,
and no place to greater advantage than in
Utah; for our timber in the mountains is 
fast disappearing.	
	SIX GIRLS and a boy were the victims of
the Centre street fire, New York; roasted
alive; yet their bodies were allowed to re-
main for nearly a week under the ruins, in
the most populous city in the country,
because the authorities did not know who
would pay the expense of having the ruins
removed, and the lessees of the building
would not touch it for fear of injuring their
insurance. How intensely humane and
charitable New Yorkers have grown, where
a little money is involved!	This disgrace-
ful action of the police authorities and the
lessees of the burned building, should be
repudiated in some manner by the city, or
the odium will rest upon all.
	FIFTEEN WOMEN were brought before a
United States Commissioner in the State of
New York, charged with illegal voting, and
held to bail: That is, fourteen were so held,
and furnished the required security; but
the other, Miss Susan B. Anthony, refused
to furnish the bail, and was remanded to
prison. Now, the question at issue, is, does
the 11th Amendment to the Constitution
[new column]
confer upon women the right of suffrage
without State or Congressional enactments,
or the passage of a 16th Amendment to the
Constitution? As well-read lawyers and
as clever jurists as General B. F. Butler and
others hold that it does; and this Miss An-
thony declares her determination to test.
From the rapid advance made, towards
securing the recognition of this right to
women, during the past year, and the frank,
open manner in which it is advocated by
prominent men throughout the country,
there is little doubt that, whether, Miss
Anthony should succeed in this effort or not,
public sentiment would oppose her being
punished, and that in 1876 women in nearly
if not all the States, will vote for President
and Vice-President.
 A NEW United States District Attorney
has been appointed for Utah, in the person
of William Carey, of Galena, Illinois, and his
appointment was confirmed by the United
States Senate on the 8th inst. The rabid
anti-Mormons look for special legislation by
Congress against the Latter-day Saints, to
follow immediately, and that all their
desires for the destruction of those, who
settled and made this Territory what it is,
will be gratified; and yet they talk about
Christianity and profess belief in God and
in the Scriptures, while gloating, in antici-
pation, over scenes of desolation and blood-
shed brought upon an innocent, God-fearing
community! But there is an old French
proverb that will apply: “l’homme propose,
et Dieu dispose”—man proposes, and God
disposes. They have felt equally as san-
guine before, only to be disappointed as they
will be again. There are two other little
proverbs they might study to advantage;
one is, that “truth crushed to earth will
rise again;” the other, that “the blood of
the martyrs is the seed of the church.” Let
“Mormonism” alone and it will grow; perse-
cute it, and it will grow tenfold faster.


