FLOWERS.
					—
	The ties of friendship are stronger and
more certain than those of kindred.
	Rejoice in having done well, but leave
others to tell of it; self praise spoils the
effects of a generous and noble action.
	Real modesty and affectation are so
different in their natures, that while one is
commendable the other is contemptible.
	There is nothing purer than honesty—
nothing warmer than love—nothing richer
than wisdom—nothing brighter than virtue
—and nothing more steadfast than faith.
These united in one mind, form the purest,
sweetest, warmest, brightest, and most
steadfast happiness.
	You may become what you will, if you
only work for it with all the powers God has
given you. Choose then, some worthy am-
bition. Do not let it be riches or honor
among men, or anything the Lord does not
esteem. Choose some great, noble purpose
on which you can ask His blessing. Then
work for it with all your might, and you
will not fail of the victory.
	Many people imagine that courage is
confined to the field of battle. There could
be no greater mistake. Even contentions
with men, unavoidable contentions, are not
by any means limited to public battle-fields.
And there are other struggles in private life
—struggles with adverse circumstances—
struggles, it may be, with habits of appetites
or passions—all of which require as much
courage, and more of perseverance, than the
brief, exciting encounter of battle.
	What spectacle more pleasing does the
earth afford than a happy woman, contented:
in her sphere, ready at all times to benefit
her little world by her exertions, and trans-
forming the briars and thorns of life into
roses of Paradise by the magic of her
touch? There are those who are thus happy
because they cannot help it; no misfortunes
dampen their sweet smiles, and they diffuse
a cheerful glow around them, as they pursue
the even tenor of their way. They have
the secret of contentment, whose value is
above the pilosopher’s stone; for without
seeking the baser exchange of gold which
may buy some sort of pleasure, they convert
everything they touch into joy. What
their condition is makes no difference. They
may be rich or poor, high or low, admired
or forsaken by the fickle world; but the
sparkling fountain bubbles up in their hearts
and makes them radiantly beautiful.
	Life bears us on like a stream of a mighty
river. Our boat glides down the harrow
channel through the playful murmurs of the
little brook and the winding of the grassy
borders. The trees shed their blossoms
over our young heads; the flowers on the
brink seem to offer themselves to our young
hands; we are happy in hope, and grasp
eagerly at the beauties around us; but the
stream hurries on, and still our hands
are empty. Our course in youth and man-
hood is along a deeper and wider flood, amid
objects more striking and mahificent. We
are animated at the moving picture of enjoy-
ment and industry passing around us—are
excited at some short-lived disappointment.
The stream bears us on, and our joys and
griefs are left behind us. We may be ship-
wrecked—we cannot be delayed; whether
rough or smooth, the river hastens to its home,
till the roar of the ocean is in our ears, and
the tossing of the waves beneath our feet,
and land lessens from our eyes, and the floods
are lifted up around us, and we take our leave
of earth and its inhabitants, until of our
farther voyage there is no witness save the
Infinite and the Eternal.


