[FOR THE EXPONENT.
	LIFE.

	The other day a poor man was thus con-
soling himself on future prospects. “Well”
said he, “I shall, eventually be as well off as
any of them; for, if this life is all—if when
we come to die, that really is the end of our
existence, the richest man can only have a
quiet resting-place beneath the sod, and that
I shall have as well. My bed will be as soft
and smooth as his. But if there is a future
life, there I shall come in for a much hand-


somer share than some of these lucky rascals,
whose wives look down on mine now, will
ever be able to obtain."
	Now, are not the majority of mankind
laboring under grave mistakes in rushing
through life, as though to build themselves 
up regardless of the wants of the rest of the
world, was their chief aim, and the one great
object for which they were created? Why
not make the most and best of life as we go
along, taking things calmly and quietly?
Not to sit down with folded hands, as if to
eat and drink were the only real comforts
we should seek for in life. But in looking
about us, find blessedness in blessing others;
living not for self alone, but for the good we
may do. There is no true satisfaction in
anything else. We may gain riches, power
and influence, but unless they are wisely
made use of for the benefit of mankind, as
well as for our own, they are but sources of
anxiety and care, and the soul starves for
want of pleasurable fruits upon which to
feast. If, as the poor man said, this life is
all, it is wisdom to enjoy it as much as
possible while it lasts, and not spoil all its
sweetness by running wild after the vain
things of earth. But, trusting that there is
a glorious future awaiting the wise and just,
it is worth while to prepare for the reception 
and appreciation of such a hereafter by 
living this life as wisely, justly, and cheer-
fully as we can.
								L.


﻿[For the Exponent.
			DEBT OF GRATITUDE.
	What’s this that romance repeats so often?
A brave, handsome, young fellow, honest as
the day is long, and twice as generous, risks
his own life to save that of a surpassingly
lovely and divinely beautiful maiden; whose
sweet voice and sweeter disposition at once
win the ardent, deep and deathless devotion
of her gallant preserver. Gratitude, and a
sudden reciprocity of hitherto unawakened
affections, pure as the “beautiful snow,”
which was going to bury her in a terrific
slide, had not our hero interfered; or, per-
haps mighty and ceaseless as the huge
stream of water in which she must have been
drowned but for his timely approach and
adventurous dexterity in rescuing her,
makes her his own forever. But I have
something else to say about causes for grati-
tude. What great thing is it, after all, for
one person to save the life of another? That
might cost but the exertion of a moment,
and is an act which common respect for
humanity would prompt any individual to
perform. A wretch may render services in
saving the life of an innocent child; and I
admit for the good he does he should be
thanked and rewarded. But still that isn’t
anything like stopping at home, doing the
work and letting some one else go to a
Christmas and New Year’s jollification.
Should it awaken half the gratitude, since it
calls not for half the sacrifice? Then, there
are other tokens of lasting love and generous
fidelity to be brought in. Think of a
family’s going without butter for a week, for
the sake of sparing to a favored one, the
new milk wanted for two days. Should
such things be forgotten? Get out with
your fated maidens and life preserving
heroes! For my part, I’d rather spend one
happy, happy week of holidays, than to risk
my life a dozen times for the sake of having
it saved; and am really more grateful to my
dear, good friends whose friendship proves
itself continuously, than I ever could be for
one deed of humanity.
							Frank.


