AN AFFECTING INCIDENT.
			   —
	An affecting incident of the sufferings,
of working women rendered houseless and
penniless by the Boston fire, is told thus:
	During the first week after the fire a very
pretty young girl, evidently not far from
twenty, came shyly in and took a seat away
from the crowd. She was quite noticeable,
both from her face and manner and her
dress, which, although it was only black
alpaca, was worn with a genuine lady-like
style and daintiness; everything about her
was scrupulously neat, and there was an air
of refinement about her that told of better
surroundings and different modes of life
from most of the women there assembled. A
member of the committee, wondering at
her appearance, went to her and accosted her
rather brusquely:
	“Well, what are you here for?”
	A painful flush rose quickly to the sensi-
tive face, and she replied:	
	“I heard—some one told me,—that all who
needed temporary assistance were to apply
here.”
	“Well,” was the answer, “why do you
come? you don’t look as though you needed


anything, you are dressed well enough,
and—”
	But the girl waited for no more. She
sprang to her feet, the tears streaming from
her eyes, her face crimsoned with shame,
and turned towards the door. Several ladies
who had been watching the scene, and who
appreciated the situation, instantly were at
her side. One of them led her to a seat,
and putting motherly arms around her,
soothed her as she would a grieved child.
Then came the question, quick and sympa-
thetic:
	“What is it, my dear? What can we do
for you?”
	Through the sobs came the answer:—
	“I never had to ask for help before, and I
had to struggle so hard with myself before I
could come this morning. I lost my place
by the fire, but I am to have another soon,
but, I must live until then. I cannot stay
in my boarding-place unless I pay my board
every week, and there is no place for me to
go, and I don’t know what I shall do.”
	“How much do you require?”
	The sum was told, and little enough it
was; in an instant it was in her hand, with
an addition beside from the pocket of her
new-found friend: and she went away happy
and safe. This is but one of the incidents
of a like character that are constantly occur-
ring, giving these women such insight as
they never had before into the lives of that
large class of their sex, of whom Henry
Ward Beecher once said: “There is only a
cambric needle between them and hell.”
This phase of poverty is a new revelation to
them, and they are learning to meet it
properly, and to feel a tender pity for those
who strive to hide it, only revealing the
truth at last when it becomes a bitter neces-
sity. That they did not understand it at
first is not but the fault of the persons them-
selves as the effect of their education. There
are traditional manners of managing the
poor that they quickly found were not prac-
tical, and they learned the ways fast as
possible, doing what they did with their
whole hearts if their tongues and fingers did
bungle a little- at first—“Pioneer.”


