EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Believing that all who have been blessed
with the light of truth, with a knowledge of
the Gospel of Christ as restored to the earth
in this generation, by the power of God,
through His servant Joseph, should take
active and earnest part in seeking to build
up and establish the Kingdom of Righteous-
ness, I wish to offer a few words to my
sisters through the columns of your paper.
I would ask why we are here in these
valleys, we who have left homes and friends
in other lands, where we could have lived
and labored as our forefathers did before us,
without the trouble, expense and fatigue of
emigrating to Utah? The answer is trite,
but nevertheless true, with many of us; we
came here for the purpose of serving God.
And what is it to serve Him as He requires?
As we understand it, it is to “live by every
word which proceedeth from His mouth.”
	Among the many commandments which
He has given for the instruction and salva-
tion of His people, there are numerous
instances where we are directed to dili-
gence and warned against slothfulness. The
prophet Ezekiel reckoned idleness one of
the three great sins of Sodom. “Behold 
this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom:
pride, fullness of bread, and abundance of
idleness was - in her.” The Creator has so
constituted His children that they cannot be 
happy and idle at the same time. The most
irksome task which can be imposed on man
is that of doing nothing; while not alone in
the possession lies the charm of that which
is valuable, but the chief delight is in honest
acquirement. “Things won are done—joy’s
soul lies in the doing.” There is labor for
the head as well as the hands. and it is noble
and God-like to exercise and improve the
mental gifts with which we have been blest,
to cultivate our intellectual, immortal parts,
and to increase the power of thought, and
consequent individuality, as well as to bring
theories into practice, and work with our
hands. Permit me to say that I think if many
of our ladies would do a little more brain
work of the right kind, instead of using so
freely those frivolities which are ever pre-
sent in the idle mind, and are brought forth
without exertion, it would be of great worth
to themselves and also to the community.
				Respectfully, 		NORA.


﻿YOUNG ladies of this city, going home
from Sabbath School, on the Sunday
between Christmas and New Year’s, were
heard singing a very appropriate parody
on “Beautiful Snow,” commencing with “O!
the mud, the tractable mud! Filling the
streets like a halcyon flood! Splashing to
cover a fair lady’s feet; Slopping about o’er
the people you meet. Fresh as an idea nip-
ped in the bud—There’s nothing so real as
the tractable mud!”


