HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 
				——
	We are often asked for a prescription for
preternaturally wakeful persons. The “high
pressure” principle on which many of our
business men work their brains and abuse
their bodies, begets an irritable condition of
the nerves, and a morbid state of mind, very
antagonistic to quiet and refreshing sleep.
Such persons will often go to bed weary
and exhausted, but cannot sleep; or sleep
dreamily and fitfully; or lie awake for hours,
unable to sleep at all. We have tried many
experiments to induce sleep with more or
less success, and have read many recipes
which proved better in theory than in prac-
tice. The very best method we have yet
discovered is that of counting. Breathe
deeply and slowly (without any straining
effort) and, with every expiration, count,
one, two, three, etc., up to a hundred. Some
persons will be asleep before they can count
fifty in this manner. Others will count ten,
twenty, and thirty and then forgot them-
[new column]
selves and cease counting. In such cases
always commence at once. Very few per-
sons can count a hundred and find themselves
awake; but should this happen repeat the 
dose until cured. — "Waverly."
	Brown Bread. —One pint of sour milk,
one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of
soda, and graham flour to make it a little 
stiffer than cake.
	Spoiled Dairy Produce.—Within the
last year we have had occasion to note
several instances where butter, cheese and
meat have been injured or spoiled from no
apparent cause unless by the impurity of the
salt used.
	Loaf Cake Doughnuts.—One cup of
sugar, one-half cup of milk, one cup of yeast,
spices and salt to taste. Stir as stiff as pos-
sible with a spoon and let it rise as bread,
then mould them up and cut, and let rise
an hour, or till they seem light, by the fire.
	Cure for Bone Felon.—The following
is said to be a good remedy for this cause of
suffering: “Take common rock salt, such as
is used for salting down pork or beef, dry it
in an oven, then pound it fine and mix with
spirits of turpentine in equal parts. Put in
a rag and wrap it around the parts affected,
and as it gets dry put on more, and in
twenty-four hours you are cured; the felon
is dead.”
	This led to various experiments, which
have fully proven the presence of sulphur in
much of the salt used throughout this Terri-
tory. Salt may be purified from the sulphur
it contains, by heat;—place the salt in a
dripping-pan, say about an inch or so deep;
place it in an oven under a hot fire and the
sulphur will evaporate, or it may be roasted
out on top of a hot stove or over a fire. No
salt should be used for fresh meat, butter, or-
cheese without testing it in this way, There
has been a loss of many hundreds of pounds
of dairy and butcher produce, the present
season within the range of our knowledge,
where salt both from Salt Lake and the mines
towards the Colorado has been used. One
dairyman east of this place, alone lost nearly
a ton of butter and cheese.—“Utah Pomol-
ogist.”
	Wearing Flannel.—Put it on at once,
winter or summer, nothing better can be
worn next to the skin than a loose red flan-
nel shirt—“loose,” for it has room to move
on the skin, thus causing a titillation which
draws the blood to the surface and keeps it
there; and, when that is the case, no one
can take cold; “red,” for white flannel fulls
up, mats together, and becomes tight, stiff,
heavy, and impervious. Cotton merely ab-
sorbs the moisture from the surface, while
flannel conveys it from the skin and deposits
it in drops on the outside of the shirt, from
which the cotton shirt absorbs it, and by its
nearer exposure to the exterior air it is soon
dried without injury to the body. Having
these properties, red woolen is worn by
sailors even in midsummer of the hottest
countries. Wear a thinner material in sum-
mer.—“Hall's Journal of health.”


