WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


As a colored boy was following a whistle
of great volume he met an inebriated individ-
ual, who, taking umbrage at the boy’s
musical jollity, gave him a round buffet on
the side of the head. Unluckily for him,
however, the liquor he was carrying made
him top heavy and he was thrown from his
feet by the momentum acquired in deliver-
ing the blow. The boy, half crying, took
advantage of the opportunity and repaid in
kicks the cuff he had received, taking care,
however, to get out of the way before his
opponent regained his feet.
	In his recent talk with Gambetta, Senator
Sumner lamented as a great defect of France
the want of sincere and rational religion,
and expressed his opinion that one of the
most harmful things ever said by a great
man in a position to influence his contem-
poraries and posterity was the famous “mot”
of Henry IV., “Paris vaut bein une messe;”
the free translation of which is that it is well
worth while to change one’s religion and
become a Catholic instead of a Protestant in
order to be master of Paris. The profound
immorality of such skepticism, coming from
a king reputed one of the best that ever
reigned, had, in Sumner’s opinion, struck
deep root in France, and produced immense
evil by its example.
	When I was a boy, says a distinguished
man, my first saving of ten cent pieces,
earned by Saturday afternoon work—for
school kept half a day on Saturday.then—
were expended in buying a heifer calf.
Then I worked on, and paid my father a cer-
tain sum each month for keeping. When
the calf was one year old I traded it for two
steer calves, and now had to put in good and
strong to pay for their keeping; but I
occupied all my spare time in teaching these
calves to work in the yoke, and at one year
old they would gee and haw as well as
old oxen, and my father paid me for their 
use in leading the team for breaking his two
three-year-olds. Again, I had a piece of
ground each year, after I was fourteen, that
I could plant and work on shares; and if I
wanted help, why I had to give two days of
my time to the hired man’s one day. I grew
just what my fancy and reading dictated
and from the proceeds I dressed as well as
any of the boys at the present time. I always
had some time, to play, time to read, and now
look back, with love and pleasant thoughts,
to the old farm and the firm-hand which
taught me to use tools, and whipped me
when I neglected to drive the team out
straight at the end of the furrow in plowing.
The remembrance of my boyhood has always
iduced me to favor all items of encourage-
ment at home on the farm; and I believe, if
it were more generally practiced, we should
have: more good farmers and less broken-
down merchants or loafing, hanging-on,
time-serving clerks, ready for anything ex-
cept honorable labor and usefulness.


