F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				  —
			  BEAVER, Dec. 22nd, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	We send you a brief sketch of the Relief
Society in Beaver. It was organized Janu-
ary 11th, 1868 and since that time has been
steadily and constantly struggling on in our
humble sphere. We have bought a lot on
a block northwest of the public square; fenced
it; and built a house on it to meet in for
work, and to instruct and be instructed,
which has been dedicated and held sacred
for that purpose, with the exception of a day
school being taught in it about five months.
Our deeds of charity commenced in our
own city, and were extended to our sisters
on the Muddy, who were burned out; to the
Emigration fund, and to snndry other calls.
We have two shares in the Co-operative
store, have donated to the St. George
Temple, and intend to continue until it is
completed, that we may reap the reward of
our labors therein. Our exact reciepts and
disbursments I am not in possession of. On
November 17th the Society met, according
to previous appointment, when a vote was
taken to drop the word “Female,” from our
Society’s name which was carried unanimous-
ly. That our labors may be directed in the
right channel, and the right spirit attend them
is our humble desire. May God bless the
Editor of the Exponent, and all who con-
tribute to its columns; may their pens be
inspired, that the world may know that we
are not the “down-trodden” women that we
are represented to be! The Gospel has made
us free, free as the pure air we breathe in
our Mountain Home! May we ever defend
its pure principles!
				MRS. LUCINDA HOUD,
							President.
				MRS. RUTH TYLER,
					"  JANE FILLIS
							Counselors.
				    —
				Fillmore City,
				     December 24, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Our Society was reorganized on the 20th
of July, 1870, Caroline Callister, President;
Delilah Olson and Melissa Samson Coun-
selors. The latter removing to her former
home, in Salt Lake City, Belinda Pratt was
chosen to fill her place. A spirit of union
exists among us, and we are trying to the
best of our knowledge to fill the mission
which has been assigned us.
	At a recent meeting the word “Female,”
in connection with “Society,” was dropped
[new column]
by a unanimous vote as suggested by sister
E. R. Snow. Our finances are as follows:
	Aggregate receipts, $1,360; disbursments,
$460. We have invested eighteen shares of
twenty-five dollars each in the Co-operative
store; three shares in the Stock herd, and
the balance consists in building material,
articles of clothing, etc.
	We hold meetings regularly semi-monthly,
and we intend during the "winter to increase
our means as far as possible for the further-
ance of our building, which we have com-
menced for the benefit of our Society.
Your very interesting paper is highly
appreciated by those who subscribe for it,
and is gaining great favor as it becomes
circulated. We are just sending a list of
new subscribers and we will do all we can
to sustain it.
					Delilah Olson.
				 —
		1st Ward, Salt Lake City,
					December 25th, 1872.
Dear Editor:—
	We will never forget the lessons received
at our last Relief Society meeting. Surely
kind angels ministered unto us, and the
Spirit of God was in our midst. Sympathy
with human suffering is certainly increased
in the hearts of the sisters through these
meetings being held. And is there ought
else that distinguishes man from the beasts
that perish, so much as that eternal principle
of fellow feeling? True, we find sympathy
among the beasts of the field and forest; that
sympathy which exists in nature’s self
between parent and offspring; that quality
than which there is no deeper, higher or
holier attribute, which extends from the
bosom of nature’s God throughout the whole
of His vast creation. But the difference
manifested, to which I refer, is in the finer,
stronger grade of sympathy which reason
awakens, and which the realizing sense of
our own weaknesses, our own liabilities to
err, helps us to exercise for all mankind.
It is this that kindles in our souls the in-
finite desire to see the nations of the earth
repent and turn from their wickedness, that
they may have peace and joy and eternal
life. And it is this which makes us grieve
that in our beautiful city, even here, we
behold the degradation and hopeless condi-
tion of our fallen sisters, whom, were it in
our power, we would raise up to new, bright
life and trust and blessedness. Does it not
belong to us and to the cause we have
espoused, by our sympathies to divide the
sorrows of others and to double their joys?
And sympathy excites to action—we lean
not on faith without works. We would
extend the hand as well as the voice of
charity to all who are in need, and who are
not so blinded by their ignorance as to re-
ject our proffered aid. 
Your visits here have done a great deal of
good. May God bless you in your endeavors
to promote His glorious cause—the cause of.
eternal truth. 
			Truly yours,
				Elizareth Harrison.
				  —
				Salt Lake City, Utah,
						January 8th, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	The following brief report of our Annual
Meeting, held December 18th, should have
reached you in time for your last issue, but
a multiplicity of causes prevented; yet,
remembering the old maxim of “better late
than never,” I send it now, trusting you
will excuse.
	Several invited guests were present,
among whom were Elder John Taylor and
our bishop, Brother Thomas Taylor, both of
[new column]
whom addressed us in a most pleasing and 
instructive manner.
	Our Quarterly and Yearly Reports were
presented after which a brief summary of
the doings of the Society, since its organiza-
tion, was read.
	We have now been organized five years,
and our esteemed President, Mrs. M. I
Horne, has deemed it proper to give a slight
summary of our labors, etc., during that
time.
	We have had on our books over two hun-
dred names, still our average attendance
has not been above seventy-five.
	We have labored under many disadvan-
tages, and our succes demonstrates what
may be accomplished by the united, indi-
fatigable efforts of a few.
	We have administered to the poor in
every case which has been brought to our
notice, to the extent of our means; and
have furnished suitable burial clothes for
some six or eight persons. We have also
held a Fair which proved quite a success.
We have assisted to erect our building at a
cost of $2,354, which is now owned by the
Relief Society, except about $500. Our
donations have amounted to $2,013:19(1/2), of
which $l,206:73(1/2) have been distributed to
the poor. We have also collected and paid
into the P. E. Fund $264:50, and made and
donated to the Tabernacle twent-six and one
half yards of rug carpet.
	I think we can truly report that our
Society has accomplished much good, and is
still in a flourishing condition.
		Elmina S. Taylor, Secretary.
				—
		American Fork, Jan. 7th, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	At a recent meeting held in this place,
Mrs. Mary Hindley presiding, a unanimous
vote was taken to dispense with the word
“Female” in connection with the name of
the Society. We had long thought it a
superfluous prefix.
	Our Society has done well so far. The
sick and needy are cared for and supplied
with the necessaries of life. We have a full
share in the Provo woolen factory, two
shares in the Co-operative store, a building
lot, also a lot, five rods by eleven, planted
with mulberry; besides having donated to
the Emigration Fund and other laudable
institutions.
	The sisters still desire to go on in this
great and good work, that they nmay ot only
be blessed themselves but prove a blessing
to all with whom they are connected, in
the building up of the Kingdom of God upon
the earth.
		    Mary Hindley, President. 
E. Eastmond, Secretary.
				—
	The General Retrenchment meettng in
Salt Lake City, was held January 4th, 1873.
Singing; prayer by Counselor Mrs. Zina D.
Young; Singing: Minutes of last meeting
were read by the Secretary, Miss Mary A 
Jenkins, and accepted. Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard read the Revelation given
to the Prophet Joseph Smith, on Celestial
Marriage. President Mrs. I. Horne wished
the sisters all a happy New Year, and hoped
that the ending of the year might find all
farther advanced in usefulness, wisdom and
goodness than its beginning does. Thought
the Revelation just read was appropriate,
and believed that the law of Celestial mar-
riage might be properly classed as a principle
belonging to physiology. She had not read
the Revelation for some time herself, and
felt benefitted from listening to it; her
memory was strengthened and she felt well
concerning plural marriage. She had lived
in it a good while, and had always got along


first-rate; had no desire to shun any trial
calculated to purify and exalt. Hoped the
present year might prove the brightest and
best of their lives.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard said she had
enjoyed the reading of the Revelation.
They should be charitable one towards an-
other, and say and do all in their power to
aid and encourage, as none were exempt
from trial; and seek also to govern them-
selves, for if they gave way to the Tempter,
they would become fretful, grumbling,
miserable creatures. Mothers should speak
plainly to their daughters, teaching them
to shield, honor and maintain their glory,
as true daughters of Zion. If they neglected
seeking to the Lord for guidance, they would
very soon be left to themselves, which was
a fearful fate.
	Mrs. Harriet Cook Young said she felt at
home among her sisters, though circum-
stances had prevented her meeting with them
for some time. On the obedience which
they render to the law of Celestial Marriage
depended, not only their own salvation, but
that of their children, and indeed, of the
whole human family to some extent. Those
who enter not into the Celestial law in this
life, cannot obtain a Celestial glory hereafter,
but will be servants to others, who, through
obedience and faithfulness have become
rulers themselves, and lawful heirs in the
Celestial Kingdom. As mothers and
daughters in Israel, how were they bearing
their portions? They should study the dis-
positions of their children, the circumstances
under which they were begotten, and try to
understand how best to instruct and influence
them.
	Counselor Mrs. B. W. Smith thought
they should be ever watchful and prayerful,
as the records of their lives were probably
of their own keeping; and from them they
would be judged, whether they be good or
evil. It was well to view the bright side
of a picture, and not anticipate trouble.
	Mrs. Howe said she could not speak
scientifically on physiology, but she believed
the law of Celestial marriage to be the only
principle upon which they could be exalted,
or the nations of the earth obtain salvation.
	Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young said she
hoped that they might accomplish more
good in the present year than they had
ever before done. She heard an outsider
remark that when a Mormon apostatized he
went to nothing, for there was more reason
and sound philosophy in Mormonism than
in all the wisdom of the world beside.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard.


