WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
 			MY FRIEND.
				—
	She is not at all like other people; she is
her own singular, primitive self. Every
person has peculiarities sacred to the one
and possessed by no other; but her original-
ities are unprecedented, and entirely her
own. Her good sense is a safe and sure
backing for her in all circumstances. She
always dresses in good style but with such
superior taste that whatever she puts on is
becoming to her. Nothing is ever new to
her; she seems to have a presentiment of
occurrences before they take place, to antici-
pate and be prepared for just what transpires,
and consequently to understand the precise
method of undertaking and managing any-
thing that comes along. She knows too
much to be dull and miserable, and can
make herself at home, at ease, and agreeable
wherever she may be placed. And yet,
withal, she entertains an intense longing to
pass from this life into one of higher intelli-
gence, where the mind may have broader
scope and freer access to the inexhaustable
fountains of pure and eternal knowledge.
She seems to have drawn forth so much of
the finer grade of excellence which belongs
to earthly substances, that her mind now
reaches forward, grasping at something
beyond, which, while clogged with this
mortal coil, it cannot fully comprehend. It
is not in the daily routine of busy, careless
life that the real sublimity and grandeur of
her strangely beautiful intellectual powers
are clearly and unmistakably visible, though
in common conversation she expresses much;
and much in her expressive language which
would be self conceit and egotism in another,
portrays only self knowledge and absolute
strength of character in her. She is indeed,
a strange composition, wonderfully endowed.
But to understand what she is, one must
become familiar with her ways, intimate
with herself, and hear her in a private ram-
ble, back over some of the quiet windings,
twistings and twinings of the threads of her
past life. Then her singularities are plain
to be observed and comprehended. She
may be still an anomaly, but it is clearly ap-
parent why; and the sympathies which her
soul stirring words awaken are ever plea-
sant and intelligent, though of a strangely
solemn and dignified nature.
								 G.


