WOMAN’S AGENCY.
			—
	A temperate life and a prayerful heart
produce a fruitful mind, well stored with
useful knowledge. There has been a great
deal said and written concerning woman’s
rights. It is a subject that I feel interested in,
enough so to attempt to express some of my
views in relation to it, through the columns
of the EXPONENT. There is one fact that I
wish to prove, by reference to my own ex-
perience, having been eighteen  years a
“Mormon.” When I first heard a “Mor-
mon” missionary preach, I was twenty-eight
years of age; and I believed every word he
said. Why? Because I believed the Bible,
and he did not preach anything but what
could be proved from the sacred book. Now,
what was I to do? I had a husband, father
and brothers, all intelligent, honorable
men. Was it my duty to ask them if the
Gospel was true, and whether I must obey
it or not? Or had God given me my own
agency, to think and act in such matters for
myself? My father was a deist, and that
was the tradition under which I was
brought up. The “Mormon” Elder told the
people if they believed and obeyed the
requirements of the Gospel, they should
know of the doctrine, whether it was of God
or of man; and that the signs followed the
believers as in ancient times. Well, I
thought if God is the same yesterday, to-
day and forever, I will go to Him on my
bended knees and ask him if he has revealed
Himself from the Heavens and sent forth
messengers to gather His Elect from the
four quarters of the earth. I covenanted
with the Lord to be a faithful witness to
this testimony, provided He gave it to me
as I had read of its being given on the day
of Pentecost. I would bear testimony to all
the world that I received it in answer to my
prayer, leaving no room for doubt. I would
like to fulfill that promise to the Lord. And
if any person wishes to know why I am here
in Salt Lake City, living in polygamy, I
think this is sufficient reason; and my
prayer is that I never may live to be
ashamed of this testimony, for it is the
testimony of Jesus. And it is this that has
placed me in the position I occupy to-day.
All the men in Christendom could never
have made me submit to live with a man
that had more than one wife, had I not be-
lieved and become convinced that God
approved it, as much now as He did when
Jacob had Rachel and Leah. But to say
nothing of revelation, the system of plurality
of wives is far superior to that practiced by
the world. I have more to say of woman’s
agency.
							W. E.


