MY DEAR LULA:—
	In my last, I left you at Central Park in
New York. Early next morning, (5th of
Nov.,) in company of brother Feramorz Lit-
tle, sister Little, Clara L. and her little
brother Frank—also brother Spencer Claw-
son, I took the cars for West Point where
we arrived at 10 a. m., after crossing the
beautiful Hudson river on a steam ferry
boat.
	West Point is a delightful point. The
natural scenery is variegated and imposing.
Having one hour to while away before we
could have an interview with the object of
our visit, Mr. Willard Young, we strolled
around the premises, viewing the objects of
interest, and some things, which to us,
promoters of peace, were not particularly
interesting. Great numbers of cannon, of
various forms and sizes were to be seen in
different places,—some from Mexico, others
from the Crimea, preserved as specimens;
also a portion of the ponderous iron chain
which the Americans stretched across the
Hudson, in the Revolutionary War, to im-
pede the British ships. I admired the
beautiful green area, with its fine shade
trees, surrounded by rugged hills; on the
top of the highest, in the distance, Putnam’s
Fort is to be seen, which is said to remain
precisely as the veteran General, whose
name it bears, built, and left it. The next
hour was very pleasantly spent in “tete a
tete” with the young military student,
whom we found in good health and spirits,
and returned to New York at 4 p. m.
	That evening Mr. Richardson and lady
called on us—he has been a traveler in Pales-
tine and gave us much interesting informa-
tion respecting it. Before we left New
York, the number in the hotel, from Utah,
amounted to twenty.
	On the morning of the 6th we went on
board the steamer Minnesota and through
the kindness of brother W. C. Staines, were
very comfortably quartered, and soon
launched forth into the Hudson and from
thence into the broad ocean.
	I saw the ocean for the first time, and was
in nothing so disappointed as its color,
which is, when calm, dark, very dark, yes,
positively black, and to me appeared like a
mass of lava. I wanted to look at it poetic-
ally, and watched intently for “blue waves,”
or even “green waves,” but to no purpose
except the waters were stirred, then, be-
neath the white foam the blue, and more
particularly the green were observable. I
was but little sea sick, and, although our
passage was rough, I rather enjoyed it. It
was raining when we arrived in Liverpool
on the morning of the 19th. The North-
western Hotel, where we stopped, is a finely
constructed building, with many accommo-
dations, but is conducted altogether too
ceremoniously to consult convenience and
comfort. We staid two days in the dense,
interminable fog of Liverpool, where they
have more light by night from gas than the
sun affords them by day.
	The first day I spent in writing, with a very
agreeable and interesting visit to the sanc-
tum of President Carrington; on the second,
a very severe cold prevented my visiting
the Workhouse as I had anticipated—a sketch
of which my brother Lorenzo has written to
the Deseret News.
	We left Liverpool for London by train, at 9 a.
m. and arrived at 2 p.m.—two hundred and
three miles. The cars in England, instead of
being open from end to end and the seats all
in one view, as in America, are partitioned
into boxes containing two seats, the first
class seating six persons, three on each seat,
face to face, and the second class, eight—
four on each seat. These boxes open only
on the outside, so that there is no communi-
cation between the different sections. Here
the distances are so short compared with
those of America that sleeping cars are not
in use.
			Yours, with love to all,
							E. R. Snow.


