SPLINTERS.

	An American lady in Rome has a school
of two hundred pupils......£400 has been
contributed to the sufferers from the late in-
undations in Italy, by Queen Victoria......
The combined fortunes of Horace Greeley’s
daughters is estimated at $100,000.....The
Queen of Holland is said to be a good
French schollar, a successful writer, a hater
of the Germans, and a firm supporter of the
Bonapartes......A railroad was voted against
by the people of Jasper county, Mississippi,
lest the deer should be frightened away by
the locomotive......Stokes’ counsel tried to
prove that Fisk shot and would have stab-
bed himself, but was prevented from the
latter by the presence of Irwin.......Salem,
Oregon, has the measles, and prospects of a
new woolen factory......About a third of a
percussion cap would be anything but
an agreeable visitant in the eye, as a boy at
Brighton, Sacramento, can testify since
last Christmas morning......General Schenck
and his daughter are in Paris.........The
question of flogging in public schools is being
agitated in England, and the wretched system
is defended by some of the learned gentle-
men as a promotion of dicipline......Miss
Swayze is lecturing on “Free Hate.”.......
Paymaster Hodge, the army defaulter, has
been pardoned by President Grant.....One
of the leading bankers in Munich is a lady,
Miss Adele Spitzides....The “Temperance
Daughters” of Philadelphia have $18,000 in
the Treasury'......‘The Gossip,” a new humor-
ous London paper, will be edited by W. H.
Garrett......A lady pedestrian is said to be
preparing for a long western walk, from
Long Island to Omaha......Gladstone, it is
rumored is about to honor journalism, by
confering a baronetcy upon one of the pro-
prietors of the “Daily Telegraph,”......Gail
Hamilton is spending the winter at Wash-
ington, with Speaker Blaine’s family......
President Juarez of Mexico, left a minute
account of all sums of money receive
him from his elevation to the Presidency
......Mrs. Livermore lectures on “What
shall we do with our daughters.”......A new
nickle coinage is to be adorned with the
portrait of the late Thaddeus Stevens.....
“The Ladies Sociable,” is the name of a
society lately formed in Wyoming.......
Governor English, of Connect
icut, gives
$10,000 worth of law books to the library of
the New Haven Bar.......Horace Greeley is
not likely to be soon forgotten, as the litiga-
tion relative to his will has not the
appearance of an early settlement..........
The rivers in the valley of the Po, are again
rising and fresh inundations are threatened
.......Two brothers by the name of Locke,
one at Gould Station, near Swedesboro, the
other at Camden, both died the same morn-
ing, December22d......The internal revenue
receipts since July 1st have been $61,518,922.
......The Crown Prince Humbolt was
thrown from his carriage, while riding, in
Rome, a few days since, and sustained some
slight injuries. Had he been the heir ap-
parent to a royal peasant, not a word
would have been said about it.......They
stew cherries with much juice, in Berlin,
and make a dish called cherry-soup......Darwin
has published a new book, entiled “The Ex-
pressions of the Emotions in man and ani-
mals.”.......A steamer which recently arrived
at New York, had, among its passengers, a
sixteen-foot anaconda, a five-foot gorilla,
and a, Bengal tiger......Joaquin Miller has
completed his poem of the “Isles of the
Amazon.".....Three California Archbishops
have issued a bill prohibiting the intermar-
riage of Catholics and Protestants........
Having successfully demonstrated that he
can live on an average of fifty-fonr cents a
week.......Dr. Dio Lewis has started a news-
paper......The death of the popular English
poetess, Eliza Cook, which English papers
have been chronicling of late, we are happy
to record was a mistake......Paris newsboys
are to be uniformed in dark blue clothes and
scarlet cape.


