HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE SABBATH School entertainment, referred
to in our issue of January 1st, was given in the
Thirteenth instead of the Fourteenth Ward in
this city. The figure in the notice was a typo-
graphical error.
	A NUMBER of those who subscribed for the
EXPONENT with its first issue, for six months,
have not renewed their subscriptions, although
the paper is now in its eight month since
started. Will they please renew at once, or
notify us that they wish their papers stopped?
	A NEW Associate Justice for Utah, in the
person of Wm. W. Mitchell, has been appointed
in place of Judge Strickland, who presided over
the first judicial district, holding court in
Provo. Judge Mitchell must be a very poor
specimen of a just judge if he is not an improve-
ment on the man he succeeds.
	NEWS OF our friends, the Palestine party,
come almost daily to hand, and only agreeable
accounts of good health and enjoyable seasons
have been yet received. They were at Nice on
Christmas day, and, doubtless, had a nice time;
on New Year’s day they reached Milan, and if
their expectations have been so far successful,
they are to-day at Pisa.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the receipt of a pleasant
invitation to attend a Relief Society Party of
the First Ward, held in the neat, new brick
building of that Ward, which, although not
yet completed is so far advanced as to be an
agreeable place of entertainment for an even-
ing’s enjoyment. We understand that the
proceeds are to be devoted to the finishing of
the meeting house, which is certainly credit-
able, and we wish the sisters much success in
the undertaking.
	THE PRESENT winter, so far, has been an un-
usual one, for the extreme and sometimes
sudden changes from frost to rain, and from


intense cold to mildness of atmosphere. As a 
result colds, catarrhs, bronchial affections and
pneumonia have been prevalent, and a number
have died of the last-named disease. Parents
should be especially careful of their children,
in such sudden changes of weather, and endeavor
to so arrange their clothing that the body will
be kept, as nearly as possible, at an even tem-
perature.


