IN MEMORIAM.
EMMA SMITH WOODRUFF.
	One more of the valiant and faithful
workers among the women of Zion has left
us, passed on to the higher, better life.
Again we are called to mourn. One of the
noble leaders in the Relief Society has laid
down the burden of earthly care and joined
those loved and gone before in the man-
sions of our heavenly Father.
	On the early morning of March 3rd, Sis-
ter Emma S. Woodruff bade farewell to
her loved ones, who, sorrowing, had gath-
ered at her side, and sweetly as a child


[Column 1]
fell into that last long sleep. A spirit of
peace and rest pervaded now that silent
chamber, where for long weeks before had
been pain and suffering and struggle to re-
sist the hand of fate which at last became
master and claimed its victim. All that
untiring, loving hearts could do or think
of to keep her yet a little while was done,
but medicine, tender nursing, faith and
prayers availed not, and at last, when, the
weary body yielded to the call, the loved
ones bowed in humble recognition that
God knew the best, and peace came into
their hearts.
	Sister Woodruff has been a prominent
figure among the women of Zion all her
life. She was born March 1, 1838, at Adam-
Ondi-Ahman, Daviess county, Missouri,
which is sacredly held by the Latter-day
Saints as a future gathering place. Like
other pioneer women she endured the
hardships and toil of the early days in this
western land, but being young and strong
she was also able to enjoy life to the ut-
most, and in the social gatherings of the
young people she was a happy participant.
She became, when quite young, the wife of
Wilford Woodruff, who was then a mem-
ber of the quorum of Apostles; and though
he spent much of his time away on missions, 
the family of such men are always held in
high regard and love by their people. Later,
when her husband became president of
the Church, Sister Woodruff traveled with
him quite extensively and was his constant
and devoted attendant throughout the re-
mainder of his long and wonderful life.
She had a large family and was a most af-
fectionate and tender mother. She fondly
shielded and cared for her loved ones and
was never quite able to reconcile herself
to great sorrow though she was a woman
of deep faith.
	Sister Woodruff took an active part in
woman’s organizations and public duties,
notwithstanding her home ties and responsi-
bilities. She was for many years the pres-
ident of the Relief Society of Farmers
ward, and when the General Relief Society
was incorporated she was one of the orig-
inal directors. As a member of the General
Board she was an untiring, zealous worker,
regular in attending committee meetings,
visiting Relief Society conferences in the
various stakes of Zion from Canada to
Mexico, and meeting in council with her sis-
ters on all matters pertaining to the welfare
of that organization. When the Granite
Stake was organized, Sister Woodruff was
appointed stake president of the Relief So-
ciety, a position requiring in itself a great
amount of work; and that stake has without
question a banner society in the organiza-
tion.
	At the opening of the Salt Lake Temple
in 1893, Sister Woodruff was called to of-
ficiate in that holy house. She was assist-
ant both to Aunt Zina Young and Aunt
Bathsheba Smith when they presided there.
Her good works are many and will live
after her in the memory of her people.
	For some time before her last illness
Sister Woodruff seemed to have a pre-
monition of her death, and sometimes made
remarks that her dear ones pondered over.
She was weary and tired, and no doubt
longed to join those of her loved ones who
had gone before.
	Heartfelt tributes were paid her at the
funeral services, glorious music was ren-

[Column 2]
dered and a wealth of floral offerings, fra-
grant evidences of affection from friends,
was everywhere. And thus, covered with
nature’s sweetest and most beautiful flow-
ers, and mourned by hundreds of loved
ones, was another mother in Israel laid to
rest on the hillside.
A. W. C.
MEMORIAL SERVICES.
	Memorial services for Sister Emma
Smith Woodruff, late president of the Gran-
ite Stake Relief Society were held at the
Granite Stake Tabernacle Monday, March
18, 1912, commencing at 1 p.m., Counselor
Leonora T. Harrington presiding and con-
ducting the exercises.
	Opened by singing “My mountain home
so dear.”
	Prayer, Sister Harriet J. Miller
	Singing “Zion prospers, all is well.”
	Sister Elizabeth C. Taylor read the fol-
lowing resolutions of respect:
	Whereas, In His wisdom and infinite
goodness the Lord has called to her eternal
home our beloved sister and friend Emma
Smith Woodruff. In the loss of our sister
we the members of the Granite Stake Re-
lief Society realize that there has gone to
her reward a pioneer of this state, a no-
ble woman, and a mother in Israel. Sis-
ter Woodruff was the embodiment of good-
ness. She carried with her the influence
of her divine calling in the Relief Society,
and her beautiful character has been a
source of inspiration to us all, to make us
nobler in our lives and to cause us to sense
keenly the sweetness of divine motherhood.
We, her sisters, ask God to bless her
children. May they emulate the beautiful
character of their mother, and may we never
forget her wonderful example of love for
her fellowmen and the Lord. We pray our
Father in Heaven to bless her family that
they may realize always that God is good.
and that He is our Father and Savior.
Resolved, That these resolutions be sent
to the family of the deceased, that a copy be
recorded in the minutes of our society, and
one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
SUSAN E. BRINTON,
ELIZBETH C. TAYLOR,
Committee.
	Solo, “My Faith in Thee,” Sister Ella D.
Bishop.
	Sketch of the life of Sister Woodruff
by Sister Emily M. Brinton.
	Trio “Galilee,” Sisters Eccles, Peterson,
Priestly and choir.
	Brief eulogies were given by the follow-
ing sisters: Katherine H. Brockbank, Laura
E. Cutler, Dr. Margaret Roberts, Sarah
J. Cannon, Julia M. Farnsworth and Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells of the General
Board, who testified eloquently to the su-
perior qualities of Sister Woodruff’s charac-
ter, her humble and self-sacrificing spirit,
her kindness to the poor, her love and
fidelity to her family and friends, her faith-
fulness to the work of the Lord. She was
trusted and respected by all with whom she
labored, and her memory will go down to
posterity revered and loved.
	Duet, “Truth reflects upon our senses,”
Sisters Priestly and Green.
	Piano solo, “O My Father.” Miss Daisy
Hilton.
	Sister Laura E. Cutler in behalf of the

[Column 3]
family, thanked all who had so kindly min-
istered to their mother and filled her room
with flowers during her last illness.
	Closing hymn, “Providence is over all.”
	Benediction Patriarch James McGhie.
PRUDENCE BROWN,
Stake Secretary.


