		BIOGRAPHICAL.
		(Printed by Request.)
	Emmeline B. Wells was born Feb. 29,
1828, at Petersham, Worcester county,
Mass., and her forefathers were numbered
among the Puritans who came from Eng-
land in 1620. Her grandfather fought in
the Revolution and her father in the war
of 1812.
	Mrs. Wells at the age of 13 joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and three years later went with her parents
to Nauvoo, where she became the wife of
the presiding bishop of the Church, Newel
K. Whitney. At the exodus of the people
from Nauvoo she made the long journey
across the plains with others who took

[Column 3]
that famous pilgrimage, and upon arriving
in Salt Lake valley took up with others the
hardships, work and privations suffered
by the Utah pioneers. Bishop Whitney
died in 1850, and two years later she be-
came the wife of Daniel H. Wells, one of
the most prominent among the pioneer lead-
ers.
	Mrs. Wells’s mind, even as a girl, had
always run to literary expression, and in
1874 she became associated with Mrs. Lulu
Greene Richards in the editorship of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, the first woman’s
journal to be published in the west. Later
Mrs. Richards resigned, and Mrs. Wells
became sole editor, a position which she has
held ever since. Her office has seen many
noted guests, and she has been one of the
most energetic and hospitable among the en-
tertainers of strangers within Utah’s gates.
She has corresponded with many famous
people, among them John G. Whittier, the
Duchess of Sutherland and many other peo-
ple of title and fame, many of whom have
been her warm friends. Amid her many
activities she has found time to publish two
or three volumes, a book of her own poems,
“Musings and Memories,” “Songs and
Hymns of the Wasatch,” “Charities and
Philanthropies,” and a pamphlet history of
the Relief Society.
	She has been among the most active of
the workers for woman’s suffrage, the Ex-
ponent at all times advocating its cause.
No question of public importance to the
women of Utah has ever been mooted that
Mrs. Wells has not been a noted worker in 
its cause. She was the first woman selected
to go to Washington in the interests of
Utah women, and since, she has been chosen
representative at a number of the big nation-
al women’s meetings at Washington and
elsewhere. She was a speaker at the great
quinquennial congress of women at London
in 1899, and at every public meeting of im-
portance she has attended she has been
among the honored ones present. At home
she has been somewhat active in politics, for
years having served as vice chairman of
the Republican state committee, and a mem-
ber of the constitutional committee of 1882.
	Her arduous public career, and her home
life have never interfered with her religious
duties, as she has been actively interested
in the women’s auxiliary organizations, no 
tably the great Relief Society, which she
has served in various official capacities. At
the death of Mrs. Bathsheba Smith recently,
she was chosen president of that organiza-
tion, a position which she still holds.
	She has also been active in patriotic and
literary circles, having been one of the foun-
ders and also first regent of the Daughters
of the Revolution; founder of the Utah
Woman’s Press Club and of the Reapers’
Literary society.


