WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARY.
	LYDIA CATHERINE MAN ADAMS.
	Lydia Catherine Man Adams, an honored
pioneer of Teasdale, Wayne Co., died Jan.
17th, 1912 of dropsy and pneumonia, at
Torrey, at the home of her daughter Mrs.
Elizabeth Covington, at the ripe age of 81
years, 11 months and 23 days. She was
stricken with dropsy 5 weeks before her de-
mise, and although medical aid was secured
and loving hands did all in their power to
relieve her sufferings, yet it was decreed
otherwise, for the noble spirit had faithfully
performed life’s mission, and was ready to
lay down life’s burdens, with the glorious
assurance of coming forth in the morning
of the first resurrection, with her husband
and loved ones gone before. For days before
the end came, all of her children except one
son, Lewis Adams of Manard, Idaho, were
constantly at her bedside.
	Mrs. Adams was the daughter of George
William Man and Elizabeth Cook Man. She
was born January 25th, 1830, at Beaverley,
Canada, and married David B. Adams,
a widower with 5 small children. She was
the mother of eleven children, seven sons,
and four daughters; two sons, two daugh-
ters, her husband, and four step-children
preceding her to the other side. She has
81 grandchildren, 79 great-grandchildren,
and seven great-great-grandchildren.
	She and her husband were among the
first pioneers of Beaver and Adamsville,
(the latter place being named after them),
Cedar, Escalante, and Teasdale, enduring
the hardships and trials of the early days
of Utah uncomplainingly. They lived for
months on bran bread, and water soup in
which a few carrot tops were boiled and
thickened with bran. On such a diet she
took care of their now large family, sheared,
carded, spun, and wove the wool from the
few sheep they had, and after the children
were in bed at night she would wash, iron,
patch, and darn, so that the clothes would
be ready to put on in the morning. She
was an artist with the needle and in the
latter years of her life, she fashioned beauti-
ful designs in quilts, bedspreads, rugs, tidies,
etc., and was never so happy as when sur-
rounded by her children, grand, and great-
grandchildren and had plenty of work to
keep her busy. She was able to work and
get around until she was taken sick.
	She was an industrious, faithful Latter-
Day Saint beloved by all who knew her;
and was lovingly called Grandma Adams
by all of the neighborhood.
	She was president of the Teasdale Relief
Society for a number of years, and a faith-
ful Church worker all her life.
	At her funeral, which was held in the
Teasdale meeting house, Jan. 20th, 1912,

[Column 2]
the speakers, Elder Walter E. Hanks,
President Joseph Eckersley, Elders James
Hood, Heber J. Wilson and Walter Cole-
man all spoke of the beautiful character of
the deceased and paid a high tribute to her
sterling qualities and lovable disposition.
Those who had known her all their lives
testified they had never seen her angry or
out of patience, and that she was indeed
a modest, unassuming, lovable wife and
mother. They spoke consolingly to the rel-
atives and exhorted them to live for a hap-
py reunion in the future.
	The floral offerings were profuse and
beautiful, and the ward choir furnished ap-
propriate music. “Near the great white
Throne,” was sweetly rendered by Mrs.
Ada Shurtz and Miss Hazel Dailey. Friends
came from different parts of the county to
pay their last respects to this noble woman.

