INFLUENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	[On the 17th of March, 1912, in accord-
ance with the published suggestion of the
First Presidency, exercises were held gener-
ally throughout the Church, commemora-
tive of the seventieth anniversary of the
organization of the Relief Society. At al-
most all these exercises a history or sketch
of the society was given as one of the
features of the program. It would be obvi-
ously impossible to publish all or any con-
siderable number of these, excellent though
they are. Moreover, there is of necessity
more or less of similarity of fact, though
with much variety of language, in all such
sketches. We trust therefore no one will
be offended at our inability to make use of
the numerous communications on this sub-
ject which have been so kindly forwarded.
The thoughtfulness which prompted the
sending is fully appreciated; and we hope
our friends will understand why we are
compelled to content ourselves with the
foregoing acknowledgment of it. The fol-
lowing, which differs from most such sketch-
es in that it discusses the results and con-
sequences of the organization of the society
rather than the historical fact itself, will,
we are sure, prove interesting. It was given
in the 29th ward of Salt Lake City, Sunday
evening, March 17, 1912, by Mrs. Maria
Francis.—ED.]
	I shall confine my remarks to the influ-
ence of the spirit of the Prophet’s action in
turning the keys for women’s work, upon
the nations of the earth.
	It surely ought to be a reason for re-
joicing to the Society that they were the
first to have an organized charity in the
world. There have been many charitable
people in all ages, ready to relieve upon
emergency, but nothing like the work of the
Relief Society. Seventy years have passed
and other organizations have sprung up;
for instance the Salvation Army, formerly
called “the Christian Mission;” “the Little
Sisters of the Poor;” “the Society of Dea-
conesses;” “the Ladies’ Aid Society;” the
“Ragged Schools” in London. In 1836 a
Mr. Geo. Muller started a home for waifs
and strays in Bristol. By 1856 he had se-
cured for the work subscriptions amounting
to $422,205 and had rescued over 300 chil-
dren annually. In 1875 over 2000 children
were lodged and educated in these homes
at Bristol alone. He also started a large
farm in Australia, where the older boys
were sent to learn farming. He died in
London in 1898 at the age of 94 years.
	Many titled ladies in England have been
moved upon to enter into charitable work,
among them Lady Somerset, Lord and
Lady Aberdeen working side by side, Queen
Victoria, and the princesses, the Duchess
of Cambridge, her daughter, the Princess
May, now Queen of England. The general
indication shows that woman is reaching to
a higher degree of freedom than was ever


[Column 1]
thought of prior to the time of the Prophet
turning the keys in favor of women. Until
this time women had been contented to
take a back seat and yield to their husbands
the lead and dominance of everthing. Very
few thought of reasoning with them, or
entering into any sort of discussion relative
to the general topics of the day. But ad-
vanced education has opened their under-
standings and made them fit to stand on
an equal footing with their husbands, and to
be indeed greater helpmates in every sense
of the word.
	This is not confined to America and Eng-
land alone—

“Not by one channel or one path alone
Does God to man His mysteries make known.”

	It is extending to all parts of the world.
	Science is teaching us that not only the
words of men but their thoughts even
are transmitted and conveyed by some un-
known power; that when any great move-
ment is being made for the betterment of
mankind the same thoughts are in the minds
of many at the same time; thus showing
that it is the Spirit of God that is directing
all things.
	In India the thraldom of the harem is
being cast off; and the remarriage of wid-
ows, a thing unknown until late years. The
child widows in India were doomed to a
life of indignity, as “accursed of God,” until
the light of civilization and freedom for
women was received by them. Now these
child widows are being educated and many
are embracing Christianity. Others are
taught the cruelty of their faith and are
gradually abandoning it. Many of the so-
called native “queens of India” are educated
women and if not embracing Christianity 
are becoming civilized and thoughtful wom-
en. It is hard to throw off the teachings
of childhood at once, but time will have its
effect on them.
	In China again the women are refusing
to have their feet bound, and education is
making great strides amongst them.
	In Japan the advancement is perfectly
wonderful. It is only about 45 years since
Japan showed any desire for advancement.
	I was in Calcutta when the Japanese
government purchased their first ships for
copies to build their merchant vessels by,
the Thunder and Lightning, belonging to
Jardine, Skinner and Co. of Calcutta; and
I remember the stir it made in India at the
time. Since then their advancement has
been phenomenal.
	In our own country what opportunities
for education are open, in connection with
the various auxiliaries of the Church, in-
structing its women to meet the advanced
requirements! Salt Lake City will not long
be able to contain its increasing population,
and the instruction our young mothers and
girls are receiving will in turn be taught
to their children and prepare them to meet
the contingencies of a new life in a greater
world. Never lose an opportunity that you
can embrace of learning. Salt Lake has
splendid opportunities and the eyes of all
the States are upon us. Therefore, let us
make ourselves equal to the occasions that
will meet us. I know it is hard for some of
us to attend the meetings, but we shall in
the future be well repaid for the sacrifice.
“Knowledge is power,” no matter what the
subject may be.
	I have omitted to mention that angel

[Column 2]
woman Florence Nightingale, who was
moved upon to go out with a staff of nurses
to the Crimean war. It is enough to bring
tears to the eyes of strong men, when they
hear that as she passed through the wards
the suffering men whom she thought to be
sleeping turned painfully on their pillows
to kiss her shadow, so much did they revere
her.
	Truly could they say of women:
	“When pain and sickness rack the brow
	A ministering angel thou.”
	Men have sung and written of their
appreciation of women’s work in thousands
of ways. One says: “Women are the cog
wheels that turn the machinery of good
works;” another: “It is the mothers by
their anxious care and loving kindness have
made the best of men what they are;” an-
other says:
		“You talk about a woman’s sphere
			As if it had a limit;
		There’s not a thing in earth or heaven, 
		There’s not a good to mankind given,
		There’s not a weal, there’s not a woe.
		There’s not a whispered Yes or No,
		There’s not a birth, there’s not a death,
		There’s not a feather’s weight of worth
			on earth 
		Without a woman in it.”


