THE BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	Long ago, in the early sixties, the broad
streets of Salt Lake were shaded on either
side with the sweet-scented black locust
tree, and sparkling streams of water separ-
ated the side walks from the streets used
for traffic. Then there were no noisy street-
cars rushing past, no buzzing of electric
wires, no chunk-chunk of autos even in
one’s fancy, but all the air was full of the
songs of birds, the hum of bees and the
sweet intercourse of village life and the
whole community dwelt like one vast family.


[Column 1]
	The houses were mostly rude construc-
tions of native timber with dirt roofs or
plain gray adobe placed in a large lot
adorned with young fruit trees and sur-
rounded by a rough pole fence or wall of
cobble stones and plaster. 'Twas then among
these rude surroundings of pioneer life that
President Brigham Young had built for the
comfort of his family those two historic
and classic homes The Lion House and The
Bee Hive House. Within their walls was
reared a family leading an ideal commu-
nistic life; and as the fair and beautiful
sons and daughters of that great sire grew
to manhood and womanhood the sounds
of mirth and laughter, of rare music and
fervent prayer, vibrated through the rooms
and halls, creating an artistic and sacred
atmosphere that has clung to the walls like
the tendrils of green ivy or the perfume of
roses.
	Not only were these homes the dwelling
places of this great family but a social
gathering place for all their friends, and
a home to which strangers to the city
sought the entree. President Young in
his proud dignity received from time to
time many distinguished men and women
here, some who came from curiosity, some
filled with prejudice, but all leaving with
a sense that they had been in the presence
of a great man whose magnetic power had
drawn from them the best that was in them.
	As the years have past, from time to time
these homes have been the scene of splen-
did entertainments and stand to-day monu-
ments of a wise and great leader, still beau-
tiful, classical and useful. How fitting that
these houses should eventually by purchase
become the property of the Church of which
President Young was leader; and one of
them (The Bee Hive House) be retained
as the official residence of the President
of that Church! Here President Lorenzo
Snow dwelt, and again was repeated for
a short time the series of fine entertain-
ments not only to his own people but the
"stranger within the gates." Now as the
official residence of President Joseph F.
Smith, history again repeats itself.
	There is about the dear old house an air
of comfort and sweet content. One does
not hesitate at the portal fearful of form
and propriety, but, assured of a home-like
greeting and a pleasant welcome, enters
the rooms and partakes of the spirit that
pervades there: a home where dwells not
only a great leader but a comely and hospi-
table lady whose greatest pleasure it is to
give pleasure to others; a woman of rare
gifts of mind and heart whose time is given
in unselfish service and whose life is
filled with kindly deeds.
	The hospitality of this home under the
guidance of President Smith and his "gude-
wife" Aunt Julina is unbounded. Many
enjoyable parties are given there and per-
haps never one more so than on a recent
occasion when Sister Julina L. Smith gave
a dinner party in honor of the president
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells on her attaining the great age of
eight-four years.
	The guests numbered about twenty-five,
including the First Presidency of the
Church, the members of the General Board
of Relief Society and Mrs. Wells' daughters.
The table was a picture long to be remem-
bered; beautifully appointed, with fine lin-
en, cut glass and dainty china, decorated
with pink and white carnations and

[Column 2]
Chetney roses. The dinner was delecta-
ble in every particular and all the fine work
of the well-trained and beautiful daughters
of the household. Mrs. Julia P. M. Farns-
worth acted as toastmistress and in well
chosen words introduced each of the guests
present, all of whom responded, paying a
tribute of love and admiration to the guest
of honor, Mrs. Wells. The ladies were much
honored to have with them President Smith,
President Lund and President Penrose, and
will long remember their beautiful and in-
structive remarks. Altogether it was an
occasion which in every detail was most
pleasant and delightful.
