	ROSABEL B. TREAGLE WALKE.
	Died, at Union, Mar. 12, 1912, Sister
Rosabel Treagle Walke, daughter of James
Treagle and Rosena James, and the be-
loved wife of Thomas H. Walke. She was
born May 25th, 1861, in Jersey, Channel
Islands, England. The family emigrated to
New Zealand in 1874. When the Elders
opened a branch of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in Christchurch,
New Zealand, her mother and family were
baptized, but her father, a good man, still
remained a “Bible Christian,” but desired
baptism before he died. Sister Rosabel
was baptized in December 1879. She re-
ceived her blessings and was sealed to her
husband, who is eighty-four years old, in
the Endowment House, by President Daniel
H. Wells.
	She was the mother of eleven children,
seven girls and four boys; five girls and
three boys survive her, as well as her aged
husband who feels her loss very keenly;
also eight grandchildren, one brother and
four sisters
	Sister Walke was our first organist in the
Union Ward 31 years ago, as well as an
active worker in the Y. L. M. I. A, For
the last 12 years she has been a most effi-
cient secretary in our Relief Society, and 
none will feel her loss outside of her family
more than the officers of our association.
True to every trust, strict and correct in
all matters pertaining to her office and call-
ing, her record books were clean and with-
out blot, emblematical of the purity of her
life. We shall surely miss her but we feel
our loss is her gain.
	Resolved: That we extend to the bereaved
ones our sincere sympathy and pray God
that His comforting influence may be with
them and that they may feel to acknowledge
His goodness even in their sore affliction
and
	Resolved: By the sisters of the Union
Ward Relief Society that we mourn our
loss, and appreciate the purity of her life
and the worthy example she has set for us
to follow; be it further
	Resolved: That a copy of these resolu-
tions be presented to the family of the de-
ceased; be placed on the records of our
society and a copy be sent to the Exponent
for publication.
				MARY ANN SMART,
				HARRIET WILKINS,
				JENNIE BERGSTROM,
				LUCY A. BRADY, 
				SARAH BUXTON,
In behalf of the Union Ward Relief Society.


