EMMELINE B. WELLS, LIT. D.
	The year 1912 among other remarkable
things has a twenty-ninth of February thus
giving our dear “Aunt Em” a birthday.
It is quite customary for a family to cele-
brate the coming of age of one of its mem-
bers and this rule was strictly adhered to
by the people of Utah in the coming of
age of their gifted and loved citizen Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, who though eighty-
four years old was permitted on this day to
celebrate her twenty-first birthday. It
would be almost impossible to tell the many
expressions of love and admiration sent
to Mrs. Wells during the weeks preceding
and following her anniversary. Beautiful
letters from stake presidents of Relief Soci-
eties throughout the Church, cards and
letters from friends in distant lands, tele-
grams from distinguished people,came pour-
ing in upon her until she was almost over-
whelmed with such evidences of admiration.
DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.
	On Saturday the 24th of February the
Daughters of the Pioneers devoted their
regular monthly meeting to her honor, the
program including a sketch of Mrs. Wells’s
social and home life by her daughter Mrs.
Annie Wells Cannon, and readings from
her poems by her granddaughter Miss
Katharine Cannon. At this meeting the
Summerhays quartet sang the beautiful
song “Mother o’er Israel” composed in Mrs.
Wells’s honor by Prof. Edward P. Kimball.
The meeting was presided over by Mrs.
Elizabeth R. Wright, the president, who
also paid a tribute to Mrs. Wells. The
honored guest responded in a very quaint
and pretty speech and related some of her
pioneer experiences. The Relief Society
parlors in the Bishop’s building were beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion and refresh-
ments were served during a social hour
after the program.
	UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	On the evening of the 28th of February
Mrs. Wells was guest of honor at a splendid
entertainment given by the Utah Woman’s
Press Club of which club Mrs. Wells is
founder and honorary president. The
auditorium in the Bishop’s building was
the scene of this occasion, where gathered
a large and representative number of Mrs.
Wells’s friends and admirers to do her honor.
The large room was beautifully decorated
in the national colors with clusters of small
flags about the room and two large ones
at the head of the building forming a dra-
pery for a life size portrait of the guest
of honor which occupied a central space.
Flowers were everywhere in evidence, there
were palms and potted plants and vases
of jonquils, roses and carnations. The
event was presided over by Dr. Jane Skol-
field, president of the club, and the numbers
on the program were introduced by the
secretary, Mrs. Blake.
	A most delightful part of the evening
were the musical numbers furnished by
one of Utah’s most talented daughters, Mrs.
Maggie Tout Browning, who not only sang
her numbers on the program but very hap-
pily responded to the demands of the en-
thusiastic audience and sang a number of

[Column 2]
ballads, “In my Garden,” “The Rosary” and
others.
	“My Mountain Home So Dear,” com-
posed by Mrs. Wells, was the first number,
a quartet, rendered by Fred C. Graham,
Julian Thomas, Jennie Skolfield and Mrs.
Browning.
	Prof. Kimball’s song by the Summerhays
quartet was repeated on this occasion by
request.
	On the stand with Mrs. Wells and the
officers of the Press Club were Governor
William Spry, ex-Governor Thomas, Hon.
B. H. Roberts and other noted people, while
the audience included prominent club wom-
en, educators and literary people of the city.
	In Governor Spry’s address he said that
Mrs. Wells, because of her labors in many
directions for the welfare of the state, be-
longed to the state, for her interest in hu-
manity had been limited by neither creed,
rank, nor politics. “It is her faith, her
dreams, her efforts put into practice
throughout her long life which have helped
to put you and me where we are today.”
	Hon. B. H. Roberts paid a humorous and
pretty eulogy to the guest of honor, saying
he had been watching the career of “Aunt
Em” through her teens and was glad to 
see her emerge from them and arrive at
her majority. He hoped her maturity would
reap the fruits of her youthful dreams
and efforts and that she might live to see
every dream fulfilled. Mr. Roberts said he
would take the liberty of bestowing on
“Aunt Em” a universal degree, for she be-
longed not only to the state but had inter-
national claim both for sympathy and for
admiration, for her work had been of world-
wide scope in aim and effort; he wished
therefore to confer the degree of D. E. W.
L.T., which interpreted means, “Dear Em-
meline, we love thee.” This sentiment
was greeted with great applause.
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon read excerpts
from Longfellow’s poem, “Morituri Salu-
tamus,” a favorite poem of her mother’s,
and Miss Nellie Shipp recited one of Mrs.
Wells’s poems, “My Dear Old Garden.” The
Press Club presented Mrs. Wells with a
basket of roses, the presentation being made
by little Miss Done.
	Governor Thomas and others took part in
the program, after which refreshments were
served.
	AT THE BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	Another part of the paper tells of the
dinner party given by President and Mrs.
Julina L. Smith at the Beehive House on
the afternoon of the 29th. After this func-
tion the General Board of the Relief Society
became hostesses at a large reception in the
auditorium of the Bishop’s building which
was the crowning event of the festivities in
honor of this distinguished lady.
	RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION.
	On the evening of the 29th the General
Officers and Board of Directors of the Re-
lief Society held an open reception in honor
of their president, Emmeline B. Wells.
	A very large number of friends and rela-
tives gathered on this occasion which was
quite informal and very pleasing.
	The event was distinguished by some
gems of speech and literary thought, many
of them quite humorous, but the event of
the evening was the conferring on Mrs.
Wells the degree of Doctor of Literature by
the Brigham Young University. Among the
guests were the First Presidency of the
Church, members of the Church board of
education, and members of the faculty of
the Brigham Young University, including
President Brimhall. Prof, and Mrs. Keeler,
and Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry. Ex-Governor
Wells acted as master of ceremonies and
after a felicitous opening speech recited the
following original jingle which together
with Mr. Whitney’s very interesting and
reminiscent speech we reproduce at the re-
quest of many readers.
	JUST OUT OF HER TEENS.
Our dear young Aunt Em is just out of her
	teens,
Now hearken, my children, and learn what it
	means.
She’s had twenty-one birthdays—that’s reck-
	oned a score,
And so she should be twenty-one and no more.
How comes it then, children, that history tells
She has long been the widow of Daniel H.
	Wells?
Has daughters who own up to forty or more,
And children and grand ones and great ones
galore?
She published her poems way back in the
	eighties,
And two of her girls are older than Kate is;
For full forty years she has had no opponent
As writer in chief for the Woman’s Exponent.
All over the world, attending conventions
And lifting her voice for woman’s contentions,
Julia Ward Howe and Anna H. Shaw
And Susan B. Anthony all called her “Ma.”
The pioneers crossed the plains very early,
Yet in one of their trains was our dear little
	girlie;
And the people who lived back in that gener-
	ation
Seemed to regard her with some veneration.
And after the days of the “Mormon” hegira,
in Kanosh, Koosharem, Kanab and Kanarrah,
She founded and organized women’s societies—
Like the pickles of seven and fifty varieties.
The oldest inhabitant recalls with some sport
How he took her to parties down in the Old
	Fort,
How she danced and cavorted and ne’er would
	surrender,
So long as the fiddle was played by Hop
Pender.
The Salt Lake policeman at night on his beat
Knows perfectly well those tired young feet;
She’s the girl without rubbers, stays out until
	two,
Goes home in a hack to East Waterloo.
And there isn’t a boy to a grasshopper knee
	high,
In Manti, Moroni or Nephi or Lehi,
Who wouldn’t stoop down and kiss at the hem
Of that old Paisley shawl that covers Aunt Em.
And who is the man so bold and heroic
Who could stand up and say like a blooming
	old stoic
That evidence counts her age eighty-four,
When of birthdays she’s had but a limited
	score?
Now hearken, my children, and you’ll surely
	see
The good Lord above us knows better than we.
He said to Aunt Em as she came down the
	pike,
“You are going to live just as long as you like.”
So he gave her one birthday in four, don’t you
	see,
And that explains all the controversy.
So hearken, my children, and learn what it
	means,
This dear old young girl is just out of her
	teens.


[Column 1]
	Junius F. Wells also paid a tribute to
“Aunt Em,” expressing the affection with
which the Wells family regarded her, one
of his allusions being that “Aunt Em” had
married Bishop Newel K. Whitney, which
was no doubt the reason that the Bishop
Whitney of today was so famous a poet.
	H. G. Whitney, who was asked to repre-
sent the Whitneys, gave a five minute ad-
dress, largely reminiscent in character, of the
early days passed in “Aunt Em’s” cottage
on State street, almost a second home to
the Whitneys. He praised any movement
that looked to the payment of tributes to
the pioneers while they were still in the
flesh, and said more funeral orations ought
to be delivered in advance of the funerals.
Speaking of the tie between the Whitneys
and Wellses, he said:
	“I remember that when we were very,
very young, I was aware that there was a
family tie of some remote kind that united
us with ‘Aunt Em’s’ branch of the Wells
family, and my brother Orson and I used
to feel a great pride in it, I remember,
indefinable as it was to us. I think we re-
garded the Wells family in the light of a
great clan, something like the McGregors
of Scotland, with ourselves as humble off-
shoots, and ‘Aunt Em’ the link that con-
nected us. I know that the great domain
of the Wellses as it stretched, to my boyish
eyes, over a wide expanse, south of the City
Creek wilds where we Whitneys ranged,
seemed vast and illimitable. To our childish
fancy, the great house that stood on the
Templeton corner was a sort of a huge,
feudal castle, containing an army of servi-
tors, with Brother Snarr as the dreaded
chief warder of the tower.”
	He also mentioned the meetings of the
old Wasatch society that met in “Aunt
Em’s” home, at which she and Squire Wells
were interested listeners. He concluded by
saying that he could not do justice to the
subject of “Aunt Em” if he confined him-
self to prose, and with her permission he
would lapse into poetry with the following:
Proud Wellses, tho’ you claim Aunt Em,
	Your title is the worst,
Your mortgage is a second one,
	The Whitneys hold the first.
So while we’re willing you should share
	Our claim—and won’t oppose it
Please keep that mortgage well in mind,
	Lest some day we foreclose it.
	This couplet was greeted with laughter
and applause and so moved one of the Wells
clan in the audience (Rulon S.) that he
turned out the following impromptu which
he tendered “Aunt Em” at the end of the
session.
	The Whitneys claim a prior right,
		And threaten to foreclose,
	The adjudication of this case
		We’ll leave to Him who knows;
	But this I know and do maintain,
		That you are ours pro tern,
	And in the great eternity
		You’ll always be “Aunt Em.”
	Bishop Orson F. Whitney made some re-
marks and recited two poems. Elder J.
Golden Kimball followed with a characteris-
tic talk on why he loved “Aunt Em.” He
said, “I love Aunt Em because of her can-
dor, truthfulness, honesty, integrity and loy-
alty to her friends, the Church of Jesus
Christ and her fellow beings. She is big

[Column 2]
hearted and generous in her sentiments. The
golden rule is her great morality and
daily life and all its wonderful problems her
great theme. She is not narow minded, in-
tolerant or bigoted, because she has an en-
lightened mind. She is just a great, big-
hearted little woman and I love her because
can’t help it.”
	Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury paid a
loving tribute to Mrs. Wells and said she
was honored in being present and having the
opportunity of voicing her admiration for
one whom she considered a gifted and re-
markable woman.
	President Lund reviewed some of the
labors of the honored guest and eulogized
her wonderful life work, while President
Penrose gave a brief review of her life in a
humorous and appreciative way dwelling
somewhat on her interest in vital public
questions, especially the suffrage for which
she had made a gallant fight.
	The chief feature of the occasion was the
conferring of the degree of Doctor of Litera-
ture by the Brigham Young University of
Provo, the ceremony being conducted by
President Joseph F. Smith, who in a short
address recited the history of the accordance
of the degree, the first to be given any woman
in the state. They felt that she had won this
distinction through her attainments, and
while it added nothing to her individual
gifts, already in evidence, yet it marked the
appreciation in which they were held. He
took pleasure therefore in handing to her
the document conferring the degree.
		THE DEGREE.
	Brigham Young University,
	Provo City, Utah, U. S. A.
	In recognition of the eminent literary
attainments of Mrs. Emmeline Blanche
Wells and upon recommendation of the
General Church Board of Education, and of
the Faculty of Brigham Young University,
the Board of Trustees, by virtue of the au-
thority vested in it, confers upon her the de-
gree of Doctor of Literature with all the
rights, privileges and honors thereunto ap-
pertaining.
	Given this Twenty-ninth day of February,
in the year of our Lord the Nineteen Hun-
dred Twelfth, and of the Brigham Young
University the Thirty-sixth.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH,
		President of the Board of Trustees,
			GEORGE H. BRIMHALL,
				President of the Faculty.
	As the words were spoken the entire
audience rose, and many eyes were moist
during the impressive scene, as Mrs. Wells
responded, wearing the cap and gown. She
expressed her deep feeling at the honor ac-
corded her, and said that it meant much to
her not only as a personal tribute, but as a
matter of honor to her sex. It had always
been a matter of regret to her that great
educational institutions had withheld this
distinction from women, and she hoped that
this would have its influence in showing that
Utah withheld nothing from the women of
the state.
	Mrs. Wells also gave a number of per-
sonal reminiscences.
		AN UNIQUE HONOR.
	No such honor has ever been done a wom-
an before in Utah or indeed in the West;
it is rare anywhere in the world. Yet it
is most fitting that Utah, where equal suf-

[Column 3]
frage prevails and has been popular for
years, should be the first of new common-
wealths where such high recognition should
be given to so thoroughly worthy a recipient
as in this instance.
	The addresses and exercises of the eve-
ning were interspersed with delightful musi-
cal selections, Miss Romania Hyde render-
ing beautiful violin numbers, and a quartet
composed of Geo. D. Pyper, Horace Ensign,
H. G. Whitney and J. D. Spencer giving
two songs.

	All during the day letters, telegrams and
gifts, the latter mostly in the way of flowers,
were showered upon “Aunt Em.” Among
the gifts was a handsome white brocaded
silk gown from the Relief Society Board, a
handsome silk lace scarf from the Oneida
Stake Relief Society and an embroidered
hand bag made of Utah silk from the Box
Elder Stake Relief Society. So many hon-
ors and so much love would almost over-
whelm any one and dear little “Aunt Em”
can only say in reply to it all, “I love you
every one, and my service is yours and our
Father’s in Heaven.”
	TELEGRAMS AND SENTIMENTS.
“There are moments of life that we never
	forget.
Which brighten, and brighten, as time steals
	away;
They give a new charm to the happiest lot,
And they shine on the gloom of the lone-
	liest day.”
			TELEGRAMS.
	Following are a few of the telegrams and
sentiments, the former received on the 29th
of February, the latter received some on that
day and the rest within a few days subse-
quently. There were so many of these in
the form of poems, letters and expressions
of good will that it has been found quite
impossible to use them all.
			ALICE MERRILL HORNE.
					OGDEN, UTAH.
President Emmeline B. Wells,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	I cannot refrain from extending my
congratulations and best wishes upon this
anniversary of your birth. . I sincerely hope
you may live to cheer, comfort and bless
your family and the sisters as long as life
is a pleasure to you, and that your last may
be your happiest days.
				JANE S. RICHARDS.
		OCEAN PARK, CAL., Feb. 29, 1912.
	Love and congratulations; may each suc-
ceeding birthday be happier than the last.
			CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS.
				WASHINGTON, D. C.
	Allie joins me in sending on this, your
natal day, greetings, love and best wishes.
Peace, joy and God’s blessings be yours as
long as you live.
					REED SMOOT.
			NEW YORK, Feb. 29, 1912.
	May you be spared to your friends to
continue the good work done for them and
Utah, in health and happiness.
			BERTHA G. M. BAMBERGER.
		OCEAN PARK, CAL., Feb. 29, 1912.
	Congratulations and best wishes on this
day of days. 
				ELIZABETH S. WILCOX.
		(Continued on page 54.)


