EXPLANATORY.
	It is perhaps unnecessary to state that for
all the contents of this number of the EX-
PONENT the editor herself is not responsi-
ble. The fact will be self-evident; but a
word of explanation may be in order. After
an editorship covering nearly forty years,
during which she has published biograph-
ies, tributes, reminiscences and poems con-
cerning nearly all the leading women of
the Church, her friends thought it time the
EXPONENT should say a few things about
"Aunt Em" herself. Sister Alice Merrill
Horne of the General Board of the Relief
Society was particular in voicing this sug-
gestion, and in insisting that the March
number of the paper be given largely to a
recital of the exercises and greetings of
the editor's birthday anniversary; in other
words, that this issue should be the "Birth-
day number." In a moment of complais-
ance consent was given, and hence the pres-
ent number, which has been prepared in ac-
cordance with what is felt to be the desire
and request of many friends.—A. W. C.


[Column 1]
TODAY—WHAT OF TOMORROW?
	This wonderful age is in every sense
of the word one of intense progressive ac-
tivity in directions never dreamed of in the
past. Some of the discoveries in science
and some of the present lines of thought
would have been deemed wholly fantastic
and impossible by our ancestors. The la-
bor-saving age is surely here, as evidenced
in the marvels of ingenuity in all the
various fields of labor, as well in the ma-
chinery itself as in the products that can
be brought into use in all directions. Wom-
en, too, are reaching out into work that
will add to the sum of human development
and are doing their part in illustrating that
the world has reached a stage of advance-
ment in all directions that has been un-
equaled by any known century of past his-
tory.
	Of course we still point with great pride
to the Pyramids and many other extraor-
dinary achievements of those ancient days;
we speak with admiration of the rare spec-
mens of exquisite art and literature which
have come down to us and we hold in
something of reverence those who have left
these rich legacies illustrating the stupen-
dous and the beautiful to those who should

[Column 2]
come after them. But nevertheless the
people of today believe that the advance-
ment in civilization, which embraces about
everything, is higher than ever before, and
are justified in thinking so from all obser-
vation and from all historical data obtain-
able.
	Take, for example, the great improve-
ment in modes of traveling. Herein is not
only an additional proof of higher thought
and progress, but it affords easier and
more complete facilities of examining all
that has heretofore existed and comparing
it with the works of today. What further
results may yet be reached in the rapidity
and comfort of transportation is not to
be at this time conceived, for who can
magine or foresee? Who would have be-
lieved, a hundred years ago, the actual tri-
umphs every day seen by us who live in
the present age! Almost the only forecast
or fantasy had in those days was “Mother
Shipton’s prophecy,” which was a frequent
byword, more laughed at than credited.
And yet we have come to see many stranger
and more remarkable things than even she
dreamed of.
	We who have lived a long time have seen
scores of marvelous changes in these United
States. Formerly there were no railroads,
and people adopted as the cheapest, easiest
and quickest mode of travel the waterways
of the country. They traversed these in
old-fashioned wind-driven ships and
schooners and sloops. Then came steam,
and soon thereafter the railroads were built;
improvements being made on every new in-
vention until the progress became bewilder-
ing in its rapidity. Our cooking was done
over an open fire place; if the fire went out,
there were no matches, and one must run to
the neighbor’s for coals, or strike fire with
steel and flint. Illustrations might be mul-
tiplied without number, if this would not
be tedious. Yet even then people were
happy, perhaps in greater proportion on the
average, than they are today; for happi-
ness, after all, does not consist in worldly
wealth. However, most of us vastly prefer
the improvements and all the advantages
of modern life.
	Certainly the world’s advancement in all
directions of progress and development has
been miraculous and now the question
arises, after attaining such heights, what
more is there to acquire in the material
world?
	In the development of the race or races
of mankind there is a wider field for pres-
ent-day endeavor than anywhere else. In
this direction the people have come far
short of attaining perfection. True, there
are not so many barbarians, at least not
so many left alive, as once inhabited the
earth, nor can it be disputed that in mod-
ern times there are people that have ar-
rived at a very high state of excellence of
mind and body and heart. It is a sad fact,
however, that these are the exception and
not the rule. When we consider the con-
dition of the masses, and reflect upon the
great enlightenment of this century, truth
demands the admission that at the best we
are not nearly so much improved as human
beings as we ought to be. This subject,
therefore, the betterment of the race, vast
and delicate as it is, offers an inviting field
for the best efforts of pen, and thought,
and activity.
	Sociology in its largest and best sense

[Column 3]
gives us an idea of what is needed, but
does not always tell how to correct exist-
ing conditions. There is, however, a “high-
er intelligence” to which the Latter-day
Saints have access, which can show us the
better and surer way by which we may
eventually arrive at some permanently re-
forming influences that will help redeem
mankind. After all, one of the greatest
needs is that of looking inward as well as
outward. Let us study ourselves and see
wherein we come short where we should
excel. While we look outward for great
things in this beautiful world of ours, we
should also look inward, into our own
hearts and find out how to correct our own
errors and shortcomings, and to exercise
that true charity which is the crowning vir-
tue of human life in its association with hu-
manity. We should strive to be mindful of
those around us in those particular walks
of life where our own lot is cast. It is
far better to live a life of purity and up-
rightness even in obscurity and to seek for
wisdom to conquer our own faults and van-
ties, than to shine resplendent in the eyes
of the world at large because of some
great victory or achievement. Without the
humility and charity that creates happiness
within our own souls we shall be poor in-
deed; possessing these virtues, we are rich
and great. Holding these uppermost and
firmly, it is not only legitimate but praise-
worthy to strive for proficiency along any
good line of work that will make the world
better and life more desirable.
	Coming back to the thought with which
we began: the advancement in human prog-
ress makes this age in which we are living
undoubtedly a great one, and the growth of
attainment along progressive lines is indeed
little less than marvelous. But we must
not boast prematurely. While the race has
overcome much, there is much still to be
done. There are still great and numerous
high standards of excellence to be attained.
We know that God is at the helm, and He
will rule and overrule and direct as seem-
eth to Him good. There is encouragement
and hope for those who have faith in Him
and are seeking the advancement of His
cause. To these, all things will be made
plain in His own due time. Greater light and
knowledge will be revealed from time to
time for the benefit of those who are pre-
pared to receive His divine messages, great-
er than has ever been manifest heretofore.
Therefore as the present age surpasses
those of the past, so will the future far ex-
ceed in that which pertains to human hap-
piness and perfection the conditions which
we are prone to dwell upon with such sat-
isfaction and pride today.


