IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, Sept. 11, 1878, Anna, daughter of
George and Elizabeth Campkin of Salt Lake
City, and wife of Willis D. Fuller of Harris-
burg, Washington Co., U. T., at which place
she has lived since her marriage in 1867.
	Deceased was born in the village of Wadden,
Cambridgeshire, England, Aug. 12, 1843. Emi-
grated to the valley of Salt Lake with her
parents in 1850, and became a member of the
Church of Latter-day Saints. Her untimely
departure, which was sudden, almost without
warning, a few hours after giving birth to an
infant daughter, cast a gloom over our entire
community. For the six little ones (the eldest
but ten years of age), thus bereft of a mother's
tender love and care, our hearts are especially
moved, and we pray that though absent in
body, the memory of the beloved one gone may
be to them and the father of these dear children
as a sacred link, to lift their hearts upward,
and aid in leading their footsteps through life's
devious paths, until they shall again be reunit-
ed in that land where death cannot enter and
parting is unknown. 

Sin cannot grieve thee more, for on that shore
No surging breakers roar, nor chilling tide o'erflows,
No fears can there oppress, rest dear one, eye blest.

Harrisburg. Sept., 1878.       L. M. H.

	DIED, at Porterville, Morgan Co., Utah, Oct.
3d, 1878, of congestion of the lungs, Elizabeth
Stevenson Norwood, aged 55 years, 5 months,
and 16 days. She was baptized at Far West,
Caldwell Co., Mo., by David Patten. After
one week's sickness she went to sleep without
a struggle, surrounded by many children,
grand-children and relatives, and was followed
to her last resting place by a large concourse of
friends. She lived and died true to the princi-
ples of the Everlasting Gospel.

She's been true to home and friends—
	Each kindly deed will be a star
In the bright wreath of shining gems
	That now will deck her brow afar.
	
Weep not for this departed one,
	She's yielded to the call from God;
'Twas he in mercy planned it so;
	Then meekly bow and kiss the rod.

Free'd from the power of death and pain,
	She'll rise in glory from the tomb,
With God and Christ to rule and reign;
	And in celestial sunshine bloom.

Farmington, Oct. 7, 1878.	L. A. C.

	DIED, at Coveville District, Richmond, Cache
Co., Utah, Sept. 26, 1878, of cholera infantum,
Eliza R., danghter of John and Susan Goss-
lind, born Dec. 7, 1877.
	
This lovely bud, so young and fair,
	Called forth with early doom,
Just came to show how sweet a flower:
	In Paradise would bloom;
