		THE THEME OF LATTER-DAYS

Dear Editor :--Although a native of dear
New England, I also claim to be a "Woman
of Utah," by virtue of a quarter of a cen-
tury's residence in these peaceful vales,
which are far dearer to me than even the
land of my birth. How often has my heart
gone forth in praise and gratitude to my
Heavenly Father, that I have been privi-
leged to rear my family in this goodly land,
so far from the strife, turmoil and persecu-
tion that surrounded me in the days of my
childhood; for my footsteps have ever
walked in the pathway of the Saints, and
in the early days it was ofttimes thorny
and tempestuous. O how I revere these
grand old mountains, that hold us so se-
curely in their peaceful embrace. But I
am forgetting my subject--Woman's 
Rights. As privilege has been given,
through the columns of your highly valued
paper, to the women of Utah, to express
their thoughts and sentiments, I for the
first time attempt to do so.
	I deem the most sacred right of woman
the custody of her children. To me this is
Godliness. If we look at the lower order
of creation we will see that the young re-
main with the mother, until, by maturity,
they become independent creatures, capa-
ble in turn of acting for themselves. How
much more should we, who claim to be in-
telligent beings, with the stamp of Deity
upon us, adhere to this sublime law of na-
ture. I rejoice to think by the laws of our
holy religion this tie is acknowledged as
binding and imperative; but as the laws of
the land deviate from this, it is against
those that I wish to protest.
	A just, righteous, God-fearing man is my
adoration; but that man alone has the right
to make laws to govern woman in matters
of such vital importance as this, I do not
believe; at least, not without a fair repre-
sentation on our part to sanction them. I
will admit that cases have come under my
observation, where women have seemed
unfit to take charge of their offspring, but
these cases were rare and isolated ones,
where all purity was crushed from their
souls by the cruelty and injustice of man.
In exceptional cases of this kind let there
be a remedy; but where a mother is at all
capable let her have her children. Let not
the holy and sacred bonds of motherhood
be torn asunder and laid on the altar of in-
justice. I do not sanction the separation of
husband and wife for trifling occasions; but
I think it the duty of each to bear and for-
bear until this ceases to be a virtue; but
when the crisis does come, and there are
children in the case, were I a legislator I
would frame a law for them in this wise:
The woman should be judged by her sisters.
There should be a petition, to be signed by
the women of the particular town, ward, or
neighborhood where the woman resides, and
if they, by their judgment, consider the
woman at all capable of the care of the
young, the children should be given to her.
When men are divorced from their wives,
they generally exhibit a certain degree of
spitefulness toward their wives, and in my
humble opinion, it is more to gratify this
feeling than from an overflow of philo-pro-
genitiveness, that they strive to retain the
children. That they do this is proof posi-
tive to me that they were uncongenial in
the domestic relations, and that the wife
was perfectly justified in leaving them to
their own wretchedness.
	Now, dear reader, I have no axe to grind
in this matter, for my half dozen children
cluster round the sacred altar of home, with
their own father and mother presiding; but
my heart has been pained by the sorrows
of others, and I have many times felt to cry
aloud in their behalf. Lest I weary your
patience I will close. If this is consigned
to the waste-basket, all right.
		MA. GOODWIN.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 6, 1878.


THE TOTAL number of petitioners for
Parliamentary Woman Suffrage last season
was 173,522.
 THE FIRST annual meeting of the Illinois
Social Science Association was held in Chi-
cago, Thursday and Friday, Oct. 3d and 4th.
OUR WASHINGTON OFFICE.--In accord-
ance with our plan indicated in July num-
ber, we have opened an office for "Woman's
Words" in Washington, D. C., where we
shall catch the words of wisdom or folly
from men and women of all the nations
under the sun.
Our new location is in the marble build-
ing, northwest corner of 11th and Pennsyl-
vania avenue, recently leased by the Wash-
ington "Sunday Republic."  It is directly
opposite the ever beaming genial "Evening
Star," a little way from the "Daily Repub-
lican," on the road to the "Daily Post," in
sight of the Capitol building, and upon the
great national thoroughfare to the White
House.
 If more were needed to make the new
office desirable, it is directly under the
friendly wing of the bright and popular
weekly, the "Sunday Republic, edited by
the talented J. Brisben Walker, aided by a 
host of contributors well known to fame.
S. S.


