WANTED.
 We want that ingredient in religion that
shortens the steps, tunes the voice to melo-
dy, fills the eye with sunshine, and checks
the impatient exclamation and the harsh
rebuke.  A religion that is polite, deferential
to superiors, and courteous to inferiors, and
considerate to friends; a religion of heart,
that goes into the family, but rises superior
to it, and keeps the husband from getting
cross when dinner is late, keeps the wife
from fretting when the husband tracks the
newly-washed floor with his muddy boots,
keeps the mother patient when the baby is
cross, and amuses the children as well as
instructs them, cares for the domestics as
well as promptly paying them, projects the
"honeymoon" into the "harvestmoon," and
the happy home like the eastern fig tree,
bearing in its beauty at once the beauty of
the tender blossom and the glory of the
ripened fruit.  We want more religion that
interposes between the ruts, the gulleys,
and the rocks of the highways of life and
the sensitive souls that are obliged to travel
over them.--Woman's World.


HEALTH, beauty, vigor, riches and all
the other things called good, operate equally
as evils to the vicious and unjust, as they
do as benefits to the just.
DYING BY WHOLESALE.--In Europe and
America, during the past month, fully 10,000
people are known to have perished by the 
sword, by flood, by fever, and by railway,
coal mine and steamboat disasters.  Nearly
4,000 have died of fever in the South, 600
in the Thames steamship collision, 400 by
the great flood at Miskolcz, Hungary, 280
by the coal mine explosion in South Wales,
100 by several railway accidents in Great
Britain, 100 by lake, railway, and other


casualities in this country, and some 4,000
by engagements between Austrians, Bos-
nians, Tures, and Albanians. - Utica Herald.
	MRS. MARY E. Allen announced that she
will open a gymnasium for women at No.
84 Essex St., Boston, Oct. 22.
	The "Woman's Journal," after ably com-
menting on the subject, closes thus: "The
undersigned, appreciating the need of
larger opportunities for physical culture,
have learned with much pleasure of Miss
Allen's proposal to establish a Gymnasium
for ladies and children in Boston, and trust
that it will receive the cordial recognition
and support which it deserves;" signed by
the names of some of the most eminent
men, and women of that city.
	This is a subject upon which we have re-
flected considerably that many of our girls
do not have the proper physical develop-
ment and play of muscles necessary to per-
fect womanhood is certain.  Work is de-
velopment, but there are so many kinds of
work that tend to an unequal, instead of
general, development.  Miss Ida Ione Cook
once opened exercises of this kind in the
City Hall for young ladies, but was not suf-
ficiently sustained to warrant her continu-
ing the gymnasium.


