SEMI ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The Forty-Eighth Semi-Annual Conference
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, convened in the large Tabernacle in
this city, Sunday, October 6th, at 10 a.m.  The
gathering was the largest which has ever as-
sembled in the building.  On the stand were
President John Taylor, Elders Orson Pratt,
Orson Hyde, Lorenzo Snow, George Q. Cannon,
F. D. Richards, C. C. Rich, Joseph F. Smith,
Brigham Young, Albert Carrington, D. H.
Wells, and other officers of the High Priest-
hood, among whom were many of the Presi-
dents of Stakes.  There was a good attendance
of the Tabernacle Choir, conducted by Prof.
Careless, and Prof. J. Daynes, at the organ.
President Taylor called the attention of the
Conference, and it was opened by the choir
singing "I saw a mighty angel fly." Opening
prayer by Elder George Q. Cannon.  Choir
sang, "Author of faith." Elders Orson Hyde
and C. C. Rich addressed the morning meeting,
Elder George Q. Cannon occupied the after-
noon.
	Monday, Oct. 7, second day of Conference,
Elder Orson Pratt, Elder Joseph F. Smith
and President John Taylor preached in the
morning. In the afternoon Elder George Q.
Cannon read the report of President John Tay-
lor, Trustee-in-ltrust, which report was endorsed
by his assistants, the Twelve Apostles, their
Counselors, the Presiding Bishop and the Au-
diting Committee.  Elder Lorenzo Snow then
spoke briefly, and the names of the mission-
aries who had been selected for various coun-
tries, were presented to the Conference to be
sustained by vote.  Elder Albert Carrington
made some closing remarks.
	Tuesday, October 8, Third day. - Elder Geo.
Q. Cannon presented the Authorities of the
Church in their proper order, all of whom were
unanimously sustained by the Conference.
Then followed a report from Morris & Evans,
in relation to funds collected by them for the
benefit of the Welsh Saints; also a report in
relation to the Manti Temple.  These reports
were accepted by the vote of the Conference;
after which short speeches were made by El-
ders Brigham Young, Franklin D. Richards,
Wilford Woodruff and Joseph Young.
	In the afternoon Elder George Q. Cannon
read the report of President John Taylor, re
lating to the condition of the various Stakes,
Missions, Temples,Sunday and District Schools,
Brigham Young Academy and Deseret Univer-
sity, Relief Societies, Young Men's and Young
Women's Mutual Improvement Associations,
and referred to Zion's Co-operative Mercantile
Institution as being a stepping stone to the Un-
ited Order.  This excellent document was fol-
lowed by the reading of the reports of sub-com-
mittees in the various departments of mercan-
tile and manufacturing interests.
	President John Taylor then reviewed the vari-
ous subjects which had been brought up by the
different speakers, giving much instruction on
revelation, as well as explaining the duties of
the Presidency and the Bishopric, and
stated that all the various quorums and au-
thorities of the Church were under the direc-
tion and dictation of the Presidency and
Twelve Apostles.  He then made some state-
ments in relation to the future intentions of Z.
C. M. I., and the necessity of establishing a
board of trade, that all the interests of the en-
tire community might be fairly and honorably
represented.  At the close of his remarks he
blessed the entire congregation.  Elder George
Q. Cannon then presented the names of other
missionaries to be voted for by the Conference,
and the Conference was then adjourned until
the 6th of April, 1879, at 10 o'clock a.m. The
choir sang "Te Deum."  Benediction by Elder
D. H. Wells.
	This Conference has been one of unusual in-
terest, and was most numerously attended, the
Saints having come from all parts of the Terri-
tory.  The weather has been exceedingly fine
and everything indicated the presence of pros-
perity, peace and harmony.


