		TIRED MOTHERS.

	If there is any class of persons who need
tenderness and encouragement it is the
tired mothers; weary limbs, sad hearts, and
puzzled brains all attest to the fact.  There
ought to be special privileges granted to
tired mothers, as much as to invalids.
Those who have passed through this trying
ordeal know how to sympathize, know how
to excuse many of the shortcomings of
those who are passing through the narrow
gateways, the thorny paths, the rough high-
ways, where temptation holds high revelry,
and the angel of peace sits in shadow.
	Tired mothers! always anxious, schem-
ing, planning and economizing how they
can manage every detail of domestic life
with least expense, for children are such a
drain upon all the resources of one’s time,
heart and pocket.  Mothers doing double
work, triple work themselves, to save for
this, or that, until the nerves are strained
and shattered to a degree unbearable to
themselves, and particularly offensive to
others. Let me entreat you, fathers and
husbands, deal gently with the wife and
mother; cheer and brighten her life by all
the means in your power, for she needs
your help in many ways, to buoy her up
and sustain her, that she may be nerved
with fresh vigor to impart to the little ones
who are a constant drain upon her life and
[column 2]
energies. Give her smiles and kind words
and minister in kindly needs, and such at-
tentions as you have lavished on her in her
girlhood, ere she knew aught of the cares
and perplexities that wait on the footsteps
of after years, and cloud, offtimes, the
sunny home, sometimes bursting forth in
trememdous claps of domestic thunder, such
as deafen and deaden, perchance, the finest
and acutest capabilities of the human soul.
After these storms there sometimes comes,
'tis true, a dead calm, but it is not of that
nature of which contentment is born, but
rather that which paralyzes the best ener-
gies and truest, affections. Oftener still,
perhaps, there comes a series of these
storms, until it is impossible to quell them,
and the whole domestic drama is changed
from its pristine glory and strife; turmoil
and dissension take the places where peace
and happiness and love should sit enthroned.
A great deal is said of woman's power to
make her home pleasant, to guide her off-
spring, to cheer her husband; to strengthen
his hands, in short to be the constant star
in the horizon of home, always brightening
and gladdening the faces and hearts of 
those who assemble round the family hearth-
stone.  All this is true of woman's influ-
ence, but where does woman get all this
wonderful stock of power to diffuse, and 
why does she ever lose it?  These are ques-
tions to be answered.  We are told woman's
nature is especially adapted to the home
circle; granted--but has she an ever effer-
vescing overflow of amiability, and can she
pour forth in smiles, and songs, and works
and deeds of love from the fountain of her
inmost soul, without feeling the terrible
reaction that always follows a continued
drain upon any one source, when not re-
plenished in proportion.  I think not.
Woman wants man's help, his faith his
sympathy, his tenderness, his affection and
she appreciates any demonstration of his
constancy and devotion to the utmost.  In
the home where the mother is most con-
stantly occupied, to the exclusion of almost
every selfish gratification, there are contin-
ual trials of patience pertaining to her
daily cares and her little ones, and only
God for her to go to and unburthen her
weary soul; here is where the spiritual-
minded mother becomes strong; but occas-
sionally despondent feelings gain the mas-
tery, even of the most religiously inclined;
and if the husband is forgetful of the wife,
where shall she look for strength for cour-
age?  Many a mother, for the want of
counsel at the right time, has committed
indiscretions in the management of her
children, that has caused sorrow for all con-
cerned; whereas, if father and mother
were united as husband and wife should be,
much of this might be avoided.  But this
is too wide a field to venture upon at the
close of an article, and I forbear, but wish
to add that tired mothers ought to be ten-
derly cared for and carefully treated by
those whose name they bear, whose off-
spring they are nursing, tending and rear-
ing.  There are many little ways in which
the mother may be stimulated to renewed
efforts, but her time and brain are so en-
grossed by her positive condition and cir-
cumstances, that she often fails to gather
hope and grace equal to her needs.  Then
can the husband make himself specially
dear, if he but tender his advice and sym-
pathies, and let her see he realizes how no-
bly she is seeking to fulfill her part in the 
great programme of life.  I know it is often
said the husband is driven from his home,
and frequently resorts to the grogshop and 
the club for relief from trouble; but sup-
posing that the husband, in all the strength
[column 3]
and nobility of his glorious manhood,
should aid, by his own active exertions, in 
making home a heaven, where the tired
mother might find that stay and anchor
that is needed when the nervous energies
are exhausted by the wear and tear that is 
incident to the life of the mother.  There
is also a monotony in woman's life that is
as deleterious to health and activity as the
exertions she is required to make in fulfill-
ing home duties and obligations.  Women
often do not see that they are really not
only doing themselves a great injustice by
confining themselves too closely to the 
kitchen, the nursery, or the sewing ma-
chine, but they become disagreeable in con-
sequence of this very devotion.  They
want bracing up and invigorating, and as
those who look on, can see better and dis-
criminate clearer than the actor who is en-
gaged in the work, so the husband, seeing
the wife too much absorbed with domestic
affairs, might perhaps save her and himself
much unhappiness, by inducing her to go
out now and then and interest herself in
something that will conduce to health and
strength of body and mind.  This sort of
treatment, in many instances, would not
only save paying doctors' bills, but give a 
higher relish and tone to the enjoyments of 
home.  I would not wish to be understood
as dictating to men, oh no; but simply tell-
ing them some of the needs and longings
of tired mothers, without entering into de-
tails of causes and effects.
	An able senator of the United States, in
a public speech recently, said in the evils
which afflict our country today he "traced
the want of influence of the fireside vir-
tues," and appeals to the mothers of Ameri-
ca in glowing language, telling them what
great power lies in their hands.  All this
is very true; but although the home is the 
nursery of principles, and the mother the
first teacher, yet there is need of real co-
operation between fathers and mothers, and
mutual help from each, to lay the founda-
tion of such virtues and characteristics as
shall eventually ripen into glorious man-
hood  womanhood.  If the mother must
be made answerable, to a limited extent
even, for all the wrongs and transgressions
of which the world is full, then it behooves
woman herself to be strong, healthful, ac-
tive, with the largest available stock of gen-
eral intelligence on all possible subjects.  It
may be that this will qualify her to choose
for her companion and the father of her
children, one endowed with all the best re-
quisites for man's high and holy destiny,
and one who will possess not only the supe-
rior courage of true manhood, but also com-
bine with it the geniality and adaptability
that will give him prestige at his own fire-
side, that will be perceptibly felt by all, and 
especially the tired mother.
						AUNT EM.
	S. L. City, Oct. 10 1878.


For lack of space in our columns, we were
compelled to leave out the Quarterly Con-
ference and other items which were ready
for publication; they will appear in our next.
The editorial is also unfinished because 
there was not room.
	A FEW of the sisters of the Relief Society
are about to visit the country settlements.
Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. E. Howard and
E. Davis to Malad, Morgan, Samaria,
Porterville, and settlements north. Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne and E. S. Taylor to Farm-
ington; Mrs. Zina D. Young and E. B.
Wells south, to Lehi, American Fork,
Spanish Fork and Goshen.


