	SPELLING REFORM.

	The progress of the good work is slow, of
course. But there is progress. What one
generation agitates, the next will no doubt
realize. Fonetic reading is spelling reform,
but it seems to many radical and revolu-
tionary. We hav vague fears about having
to learn a new language. We fear our
children would hav to learn two languages.
We hav learnt one, and now let others learn
it, too. Our whole literature will be dis-
turbed[-] and what not. But a little thought
on, and study of the subject would soon re-
move such misgivings. The Spelling re-
form association appreciates and anticipates
this feeling. Hence it has proposed the
five rules in accordance with which this
letter is written. They ar given here
again:
	A FEW RULES FOR NEW SPELLING.
	1. Omit a from the digraf ea when pro-
nounct as e[-]short, as in hed, helth, etc. 2.
Omit silent e after a short vowel, as in hav,
giv, etc. 3. Write f for ph in such words
as alfabet, fantom, etc. 4. When a word
ends with a doubl letter, omit the last, as
in shal, clif, eg, etc. 5. Change ed final to
t where it has the sound of t, as in lasht,
imprest,etc.  For new type and script letters,
report on new spellings.
	Anybody who thinks fonetic spelling too
much at once, let him take these five rules
and follow them. If five ar too many, take
four, or three, or any one you choose. If
you like none of these five, get Bulletin 2,
in which some twenty changes ar suggested,
and take your choice. Choose you must
and wil,
	YOU HAV CHOSEN.
	What makes you drop u out of honour as
it is always spelt in England, and was here
until 25 years? Why did you drop k from
"musick," as your fathers spelt music?
Who does not, when in a hurry, or from
laziness, write tho', altho', bo't, tho't?  Wel,
drop the apostrophe entirely and you wil
forget that you slighted a useless, unpro-
nounceable "ugh." The New York "Eve-
ning Post," which is nothing if not con-
servativ, and your own estimabl paper, drop
the "me" of programme. Why not? You
can't pronounce it. Any one who knows
Greek; will remember its derivation; any-
body who does not know Greek, will not
care, whether programme or program is
more like the original. Why should we
not now always write "mixt," "drest," as
Adison does in the "Spectator?" T for ed,
when so pronounct, was once the rule and
not the exception, as now. Hence rule 5
is not an innovation, but the re-establish-
ment of an old usage. Rule 3 ought to find
redy favor. The Italians know no ph. Ph
is
	NOT AN ORIGINAL LETTER
of the Roman al[-]abet. It is a substitute
for gr o in words introduced from Greek.
In nine cases out of ten we associate final
e with a long preceding vowel, as in mate,
life, finite. Yet we persist in ad[--]ng this
deceptiv e to infinit, opposit, liv, [-]av, giv.
Rule 1 concerns about seventy words. In
many of them ea is spurious—eg, in pleasure,
thread, tread. Peopl say "hed" looks so
funny. "Gaol," tho strictly historical, can
not maintain itself against "jail." Now
jail is a much more striking innovation
than any yet mentioned, and was, no doubt,
"funny" and "queer." Why not write
"hiccup" instead of "hiccough?" That is
what most peopl do now, they hiccup; very
few take the liberty of "hiccof"-ing given

[Column 2]
them by som authorities on pronunciation.
Drop "ue" from catalogue, harangue, col-
league, etc. Their originals had no "ue."
The only troublsom member of the class is
"tongue," which would collide with tongs.
Spenser spelt tongue "tong," however.
Drop "ugh" and the apostrophe of three
words, tho, altho, thoro, if you like. Per-
haps you would prefer to drop the t of the
trigraf[-]t[-]h. I assure you ther is no differ-
ence between ch and tch, tho you may
imagin ther is; tch is a blunder. This
leads me to
	ANOTHER CLASS OF SPELLING[-]
viz., such as we look upon as historical and
yet which hav not a shadow of historical
foundation. We are so apt to apply Pope's
fals maxim,
	"Whatever is, is right."
	Nowher is it more deceptive than in the
matter of spelling. I will mention only a
few examples of such unhistorical, absurd
spellings, as a in parliament; u in guild,
build, buy; p in receipt; u in busy; busi-
ness; o in woman; b in limb, numb, thumb
(it is superfluous, tho historical, in tomb,
womb, lamb); g in foreign, sovereign,
deign (?). Anybody who has the purity of
his mother tongue at heart—and who has
not, at least who does not pretend to hav?
—ought to be willing to remove such in-
congruities as have and behave, such ab-
surdities as busy, bough, tow, trough. He
ought to belong to this third class of re-
formers, who think they hav good reasons
for opposing fonetic spelling. No one has a
singl good reason for opposing correct his-
torical spelling, and in so far, spelling re-
form.—Utica Herald.


