		CHRISTIAN MINISTERS﻿.

	Reading recently in the "Watchman," a
popular Boston paper, an article on "Christian
Women," we could not help constrasting the
perfect working order of the Relief Societies
of this Territory with the condition of those
highly educated, intellectual, noble women of
the Eastern States. The very words of that
Christian Minister should prove to him that
the system of charity established here is just
what he desires. Hear what he says: "In the
midst of the talk on Woman's Rights and Wo-
man's Wrongs, the church would do well to
take advantage of the hour, and map out a 
broader field of usefulness for the women in
our churches. A few have taken hold of mis-
sions, some have enlisted in the temperance
cause, but the great mass yet hug the old indif-
ference, and stand aloof from all public chari-
ties." * * The writer refers to Catholic Sis-
ters of Charity, and says they have done im-
mense good; but in continuation: "We want
no such sisterhoods as the Catholic Church has
founded, superintended and ruled over by a 
bachelor priesthood, but a sisterhood organized
and conducted by able and experienced Chris-
tian women, might find a place of work as
wide as the circumference of Christian char-
ity."
	In Utah such an organization really exists,
founded by Joseph Smith the Prophet, and
these organizations have made Mormon women
spiritually strong, and given them more exalted
views of true charity. There has been more
real good effected through these organizations
than one would think, were the facts not liter-
ally apparent. This minister says: "We can
imagine that a Protestant sisterhood, with
such a person as Selina, Countess of Hunting-
don, Madame Guyon, Mrs. Frey, Florence
Nightingale, or some of the Christian women
whose names we could speak; who live around
us here, at its head, might be a great and won-
derful blessing to Protestant society."
	Here there is just what this minister calls
for, and noble Mormon, Christian women at
its head—women who have borne persecution,
and been purified by suffering, until "their very
failings lean to virtue's side;" women of the
best blood of Puritanical New England, and
Old England; women who would take their 
lives in their hands, as it were, to sustain cor-
rect principles; women, in fact, who have done
it. Such women are Eliza R. Snow, Zina D.
Young, and M. Isabella Horne; these are only
three of the great army of noble women who
work continuously in the interest of Relief So-
cieties—one of them a literal descendent of the
very Huntingdon family to which this writer
alludes, a Huntingdon of New England


The writer referred to says; "There is a want
that our economy does not supply." The econo-
my of the Church of Jesus Christ has left no
such vacancy, for it is perfect in its organiza-
tion for men and women.
	Mrs. Sarah Andrews Spencer, in the edito-
rial department of "Woman's Words" for Oc
tober, says: "At our next Convention in Wash-
ington, let us by all means have one or more of
the enterprising, public-spirited women of
Utah present. If we mistake not our Gentile
sisters have much to learn from these heroic
women. What we read of their business,
ability, courage and patriotism is an inspira-
tion to us."	E. B. Wells


