		TERRITORIAL CONVENTION.

	The delegates to the Territorial Convention
assembled at the City Hall per appointment,
at 6 p. m. Monday, Oct. 7. D. O. Calder, Esq,
Vice President of the People's Territorial Cen-
tral Committee, called the Convention to order
and a temporary organization was effected


with Hon. Orson Hyde Chairman and John
T. Caine, Esq. Secretary.  The first business
of the Convention was the appointing of a 
committee of seven on credentials, who re-
tired to examine credentials; meantime short
speeches were made by Hon. W. H. Hooper,
Judge Snow and E. D. Carpenter, Esq.
   The committee returned and presented the
report to the Chairman, which was read by the 
Secretary; and after amendment by the admis-
sion of some alternates and proxies in place of
absentees, the report was accepted.
   The total delegation consisted of 77 delagates,
among whom were the following  ladies: Han-
nah T-King, Zina D. Young, Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Sarepta M. Heywood, Emmeline B. Wells,
Priscinda Kimball, and Mary E. Carter.
   On motion of Pres. A. M. Cannon, the Con-
vention agreed to proceed to a permanent or-
ganization, to consist of a President, six Vice-
Presidents, three Secretaries, a Chaplain and
Sergeant-at-arm. On motion of Col. J. R.
Winder, the chair was authorized to appoint a
committee of seven to nominate candidates
for these offices.  During the absence of the
committee, Hon. L. E. Harrington being called
upon responded in a very appropriate speech.
Mr. H. began by saying the most important
item in political economy was to have a good
foundation; then we want a good government,
and in order to have good government we must
have good representatives to make good laws,
plain and simple, so the people, the common-
ality, can understand them and not lose the
meaning in the verbiage.  To accomplish this,
it is necessary to create intelligence, and to do
so we must educate.  The speaker avowed
himself an advocate of education; said no man
was fit for a ruler until he was qualified to be
ruled over; with him the question was not
what the world thought of us, but what God
knew of us.
   Mrs. S. M. Kimball was called upon and 
made a few concise remarks upon the plank
Woman's Suffrage in the platform of govern-
ment, and briefly referred to the 16th Amend-
ment.
   Mrs Hannah T. King was then called, and
spoke of woman's peculiar position before the
public at the present time, felt it was fraught
with a deep significance, and certainly was no
child's play.
   The committee's report on permanent organ-
ization was adopted as a whole.  President,
Hon. W. H. Hooper; Vice Presidents: First
Judicial District, L. E. Harrington and Canute
Petersen; Second Judicial District, William
H. Dame and J. D. T. McCallister; Third Ju-
dicial District, F. D. Richards and M. D. Ham-
mond; Secretaries, John T. Caine, Emmeline
B. Wells and F. M. Lyman; Chaplain, Wil-
ford Woodruff; Sergeant-at-arms, William
Hyde.  Hon. W. H. Hooper assumed the chair,
and declared the Convention fully organized,
and the Chaplain opened with prayer, after
which the Chairman thanked the Convention
for the honor conferred upon him, and made a 
few remarks upon the object of the assembly,
which was to nominate a delegate to represent
Utah in the Forty-seventh Congress.
   The Convention then went into a committee
of the whole, for a nomination of delagate,
with Hon. F. D. Richards in the chair.  A
brief recess was allowed the delegates of each
county to confer with each other, after which
the Convention was again called to order, and
reports of the chairmen of the various delega-
tions were made.  Each county returned a 
solid vote for Hon. George Q. Cannon, and the
chairman on the committee of the whole stated
that the Hon. George Q. Cannon was duly
nominated as Utah's delegate to the Forty-
seventh Congress, to be voted for at the No-
vember election.  This report was unanimously
adopted by the whole Convention, without one
dissenting voice.  Ezra D. Carpenter moved
for resolutions, short and crisp, expressing the
sentiments of the Convention on the subject
of woman's suffrage and in regard to the peo-
ple's delegate, which was not deemed expe-
dient as the hour was late, and further busi-
ness had to be transacted; but Mr. Carpenter
said some very good things in favor of women,
which the ladies present fully appreciated; he
remarked that it was comparatively easy to
speak on woman suffrage here in Utah, where
women had the franchise extended to them,
but it was an entirely different thing in the
world, where a few noble-hearted women were
battling, as it were, alone on this ground.  He
thought the first true step made towards wo-
man's suffrage had been made in this Territory.
This remark brought to our mind the letter we
received from Mrs. Lydia E. Beecher, of Man-
chester, editor of the "Woman's Suffrage Jour-
nal" of that city, and a prominent leader of 
the woman's party in England: "It has been
reserved for the government of your Territory
to set the world an example of real, political
justice, and the women of Utah should hold
their political suffrage as a sacred and divine
trust, held not for their benefit alone, but for
the sake of their sisters."  Hon. W. H. Hooper
made some most excellent remarks upon wo-
man's suffrage; said he had always advocated
it strongly, and related the circumstance of
Congressman Julian introducing the bill en-
franchising Mormon women.  Hon. Orson
Hyde spoke of the speech of Mr. Hopper in
the House of Representatives on the question
of Plural Marriage, and said it had never been
answered. Mrs. Zina D. Young made some
concise remarks upon the position of this
people in the eyes of the world, and prayed
God to bless the honorable body there assem-
bled.
   A committee on information was appointed
by the Chair, to wait upon Hon. George Q.
Cannon and inform him of his nomination.
This committee consisted of Hon. Abraham
Hatch, Hon. Orson Hyde, Hon. Wilford Wood-
ruff.  The Convention then proceeded to re-
elect the People's Territorial Central Commit-
tee, with some changes.  As it now stands it
consists of John Sharp, President, David O.
Calder, Vice-President, Theodore McKean,
Secretary, Mrs. B. W. Smith. Feramorz Little,
John T. Caine, H. W. Brown, John R. Win-
der, A. M. Cannon, George Crismon, A. M.
Musser, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Salt Lake Co; W.
N. Dusenberry, Utah Co.; Joseph O. Robison,
Millard Co.; John R. Murdock, Beaver Co.;
Edward Dalton, Iron Co.: Isaac Duffin, Kane
Co.; A. B. Whitehead, Washington Co.; I. W.
Pierce, Sevier Co.; W. T. Reid, Sanpete Co.;
Joseph Hatch, Wasatch Co.; W. W. Cluff,
Summit Co.; Samuel Francis, Morgan Co.; W.
R. Smith, Davis Co.; A. Christiansen, Box El-
der Co. F. M. Lyman, Tooele Co,; F. D. Rich-
ards, Weber Co; Moses Thatcher, Cache Co.;
Wm. H. Lee, Rich Co.; Wm. King, Piute Co.
Benediction was then pronounced by the Chap-
lain, and the Convention adjourned sine die.
The spirit of the convention was most excel-
lent throughout, and the business accomplished
was entirely satisfactory.  We feel especially
gratided with the feeling [-] existing here in
regard to woman's voice as well as vote in sub-
jects of civil government, and return our sin-
cere thanks, in behalf of the women of Utah, to
our brethren who have generously extended to
us the privilege of acting in political gather-
ings, and trust that the women of this Terri-
tory will use wisely and discreetly for good, the
power they hold through having the ballot.


