[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: A WOMAN MISSIONARY. | Author: Unknown]

A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
			[Continued.]
	For the first time in my life I took food
as a medicine, forcing it down as I would a
nauseous draught given to save my life.
Two or three times a flying fish found on
deck was dressed and cooked for me: the
sweetest morsel I tasted on the voyage.
The weather was fine, a few days’ head
wind was all the difficulty we had to en-
counter; and had it been possible for me
to have shaken off my seasickness, I should
have passed the time pleasantly. We
spoke an American whale-ship on the pas-
sage. The captain came on board with his
little daughter, six years of age, a very
pretty child. His wife, who was sailing
with him, had given birth on board ship to
twin boys, then six months old. The
captain from his vessel held them up to our
view. We praised the beauty of the ocean-
children, and hoped he might carry them
safely to the end of the voyage. Five days
before we reached Tubaui we saw the
Pamutus at a distance.
	We looked through a spy-glass and saw
cocoanut trees. Hope began to spring up
in my heart that the voyage would soon be
over. Two days before we landed I had a
fainting spell, the most severe I ever had in
my life. I called on the Elders to adminis-
ter to me, which they did, and from that
hour my darkness fled; I was relieved in
body and mind!
	As we drew near the island where we
expected to land, the children began to
talk of meeting their father. It never
once occurred to them there could be a dis-
appointment at hand. Frances, our second
daughter, had often been sad on the way.
She would frequently retire to some seclud-
ed corner to indulge in silent reveries.
When the ship hove in sight of Tubaui,
her countenance changed. On the 19th of
October she was constantly on deck look-
ing toward the desired harbor, her coun-
tenance brightening every moment. The
wind was contrary for a whole day. We
looked through a spy-glass and saw cocoa-
nut trees. We strained our eyes to catch a
glimpse of something to confirm our hopes
that all would be well with us when we
landed. Nothing could we see resembling
human life. The great cocoanut trees
towered their majestic heads far above the
horizon, and their long branches, waved in
the breeze! But the living beings were
enshrouded in the thick foliage of the
shrubbery which grows so luxuriantly ove


[Column 1]
the Islands. My highest anticipations were
to set my feet on terra firma once more; to
get fried chickens and fish and fruits of
various kinds—something to satisfy my 
longing appetite, and a soft bed to sleep on.
	In the afternoon of October 21st the pilot
came off to us. I gazed at him from head
to foot as a representative of the people
with whom I must dwell. He was huge
in size, but I thought him good looking.
I told the captain to ask him if “Paraita
was on the Islands?” He replied: “He is
not.” In an instant Ellen’s face was like
marble! She sat down with folded hands
and closed lips. I was prepared for such
tidings; had often thought that such an
event would only be coincident with many
others of a like nature which had fallen to 
my lot. To be thus informed was not the
bitterness of it. He was a prisoner on
Tahiti! The French governor had him in
custody, he was not allowed to leave the
Island. It did not alarm me, so seared
was my heart to hard things. The captain
sent word to Elder Grouard to come on
board. During the interval the children
walked thoughtfully about the deck. At
length Messrs. Grouard and Alexander
came off to the brig. They could scarcely
believe their own eyes! To see so many
American brethren coming to dwell with
them, to relieve them of their solitude,
filled them with joy and surprise! Mr.
Grouard had been for seven years shut out,
as it were, from the world, having been
sent with Mr. Pratt in the year ’43 from
Nauvoo. He has acquired an air of dig-
nity and sobriety, assimilating him with a
Catholic monk. His eyes are sunken, ap-
parently with sorrow, and his whole ap-
pearance at the time was grave and majestic.
I had seen him in the vigor and bloom of
youth, and thought him a gay, lively man.
Now his look was full of wisdom and years.
He very respectfully invited us to go on
shore.
	We were conducted over the coral reefs
with great care. The Island at a distance
presents a picturesque appearance, the
beach being skirted with ito and burau
trees, also with bananas and cocoanuts
and a variety of shrubbery of the most vivid
green. It being the 21st of October, the
season we expect to see the leaves turning
yellow and falling off, not to see the least
sign of decay conveys to the mind a feeling
of admiration.
	The buildings, though far from elegant,
have an appearance of romance. Little
white cottages in the woods,shining through
the green trees, away from the bustle of
the busy world far over the mighty ocean!
To find the remnants of Israel enjoying,
though in a rude state, an incessant spring!
The idea was exalting to one tired of the 
sea as I was. The buildings are low but
very long, plastered inside and out with
lime made from the coral rock; there can-
not be a purer white. I thought of eating
the good fruit, and weak as I was, I walked
with a light step. Multitudes of people
assembled on the beach to welcome us. As
soon as they could reach our hands, they
saluted us in Tahiti: “Ea ora nu ae, te fetii
nu Paraita,” each by our Tahitian names,
as we were introduced by Mr. Grouard.
	A native man who held the office of
“alcalda,” according to French jurispru-
dence, came and took me by the hand, say-
ing, “vau araitai oe” (I will lead you.)
He had a piece of blue drilling bound
about his loins, a sailor jacket, which he
wore without a shirt: that was his com-

[Column 2]
mon suit. On Sabbath days he dressed
like a white man. We took the lead; the
remainder of the company followed at a re-
spectful distance. I could hear them
laughing behind us, but I did not look
back, so intent was I in talking to my
guide. We soon reached the place where
the former friends of “Paraita” resided: I
mean those with whom he had his home,
they were all his friends. Nabotu and
Terii were their names. The latter was
sick with the measles. As soon as she
heard “Paraita’s” family had come, she
rose by faith above the disease and com-
menced arranging supper for us. In the
same house we found Mr. Grouard’s
native wife with a young babe. She ap-
peared exceedingly timid, would not stay
in the house. We tried to win her con-
fidence, talked by an interpreter, assuring
her we were her friends, that we had come
to do her good. The supper was set before
us, every dish entirely new, except fowl
and fish. Everything was relished. I felt
no aversion to anything that was called
food, it was all delicious to my taste.
	The whole population assembled to
greet us: “Ia ora na otou te haera ra mai to
Tubuai nai,” (Peace be to you in coming
to Tubaui) went around and around.
Evening drew near, the singers came in to
sing. Long grass was laid for a floor, on
which they were seated. The music was
delightful! Their voices are loud and
clear, and no people can excel them in
keeping time. Queen Rapah came with
the rest, and I urged her to be seated in a 
chair, but she refused, so modest was she
and unwilling we should think she wished 
to assume any superiority above the other
women. The moon was then at its full,
and the house was surrounded with shade
trees covered with bright yellow flowers. I
looked upon the humble people seated on
the ground singing the praises of God. I
gazed  upon the scenery which surrounded
the dwellings: the pale rays of the moon
shining through the trees in a thousand
shapes; the tall cocoanuts waving their
branches high up in the azure vault; the
great itoes above all the rest; seen by the
queen of night, while the imagination was
warm with the reflection of the great dis-
tance we had come and the suffering we
had endured, all conspired to fill the mind
with ideas great with meaning. I said,
“God is in it all!”
	Brother Grouard sought to encourage us.
He believed that when the Messenger
(king’s vessel) returned from Tahiti,
Brother Pratt would come: it did not thus
prove. The idea of his being a prisoner
was painful to me, except when I con-
sidered it was for the Gospel’s sake we had
come to a strange world.
	A whole week was spent in conversa-
tion. Mr. Grouard had been preaching
among the Islands for seven years, had
heard very little from the Church. Great
things had transpired, he had many ques-
tions to ask. Hoatan, the native chief
who had the charge of us, ordered the
house repaired and the lot fenced. Seventy
banana trees were planted, and a garden
made with the seeds we had brought. Near-
ly all were new to the natives, they had
never seen any of our common vegetables.
Here in October we make our gardens.
Such cabbages I never saw grown before:
mammoth in very deed! Very soon we
had a fine flower garden to look upon. We
planted corn in November. We had only
to dig up the ground with a spade, it was

[Column 3]
loamy and mellow, everything grows ap-
parently by magic.
	Sister Grouard soon became accustomed
to our habits, and would in a small degree
conform to them. We find her rather a 
sensible, intelligent, ingenious woman.
	A letter arrived stating that the governor
on Tahiti would not permit Mr. Pratt to
leave that Island until all the Mormon
Elders would assemble in Tahiti and sign a
document, entering into an agreement to
teach nothing derogatory to the French
government. This was a trial of our pa-
tience, but we strove to bear it as graciously
as was possible. The good people were so
sympathetic they were ready to weep over
us. 
	The second week we all went to Mahu, a
village on the opposite side of the Island,
five miles over a mountain. We could
walk beneath the shade of trees the whole 
distance. It was where Mr. Pratt landed
when first he came on his mission. The
same family were still living in the same
house where he took up his abode.
They were very friendly. Their little
daughter, thirteen years of age, was the
wedded wife of Brother Alexander, the first
man on the Island baptized into the Mor-
mon faith. She looked like a mere child
and conducted herself like one. The old “Fere
bare ra” (prayer house) stood near the
beach, a tall ito tree in front of each door.
I went into the house where six years be-
fore my husband had been wont to pray. In
the pulpit, just as the sun was setting, I
kneeled before the Lord to thank Him for
preserving all our lives while crossing the 
great waters.
	The second day I returned on horseback.
The children complained of being lonely,
mourned the absence of their father. We
amused ourselves by teaching the native
women how to knit, and studying the lan-
guage.
	On Christmas Sister Crosby and I made
a feast for our families, inviting what few
white brethren and sisters were on our side
of the Island. We had string beans, cucum-
bers and green corn. That was something
to communicate to our kindred in the cold
regions of Lower Canada, where snow at
that season is often six feet deep.
	The people were very anxious to teach
us their language. Nearly all our evenings
were spent in reading and translating the
scriptures. It was a source of great
amusement: there are so many mistakes
made it excites merriment. The house
was thronged at night with natives reading
and singing. Many of them had never
seen a European woman. Our eldest
daughter played the flutina, which amused
and delighted them. It was no little diver-
sion for us to exhibit the little curiosities
we brought with us from San Francisco, to
witness their pleasure and admiration, hear
them eulogize America, and marvel that it
should contain so many wonderful things !
	I brought with me the likeness of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and of Hyrum, which
I hung against the wall of a room in the
mission house. A native brother from the 
Chain Islands, one evening while we were
all seated around the table reading, with-
drew and went into the room to look at the
picture. He kneeled before it in order
that the painting might come in range
with his eyes. For a quarter of an hour
he gazed steadfastly upon it, I believe,
without turning his eyes. I did not suppose it
was an act of worship, but he wished to
impress the lineaments of the features upon


[Column 1]
his mind. I could not help admiring his
devotion. I knew his faith was strong in
the Gospel, and he felt a solemn pleasure in
surveying the features of the murdered
Prophet and Patriarch.
	The Island sisters have great faith in the
consecrated oil, which was blessed by Presi-
dent Brigham Young previous to our leav-
ing Salt Lake City. When I told them
from whence it came and the designs of it,
they would invariably bring their sick chil-
dren to me and request me to anoint them
with the holy oil, nothing doubting but
a cure would be effected; and, according to
their faith, often was it done unto them.
	Their habits of devotion are really com-
mendable. At all seasons of the year they
rise at early dawn. The first exercise is to
call the family and fall upon their knees in
prayer. Often before their first meal,
they ring the bell and go to the house of
worship, read a chapter in the Bible, sing a
hymn, and, if their teacher is present, they
ask questions upon portions they do not fully
understand, seldom continuing their ex-
ercises more than a half hour. They make
many feasts, sometimes calling all within
hailing distance to come and partake. At
other times they send the food to their
kindred and neighbors, and a generous,
share to their teachers.
	On January 4th, 1851, Elder Grouard
made a great feast to celebrate his 33rd
birthday. It was held at his own dwelling
house, a very long building. About one
hundred people were invited. The food
was purely native, with the exception of
fifty mince pies, which the missionaries’
wives contributed. The guests were not
assembled until the food was all arranged
in order. Mats were laid the whole length
of the building, large leaves laid for plates,
likewise plaited for tablecloths. Through
the centre was laid the food, a cocoanut at
each plate; the shells being a bright orange
contrasted beautifully with the green leaves.
	I shall never forget the admiration I felt as
I gazed upon that table spread upon the
ground! Never in my life had I seen any-
thing to exceed it! Mats were laid for the
guests to be seated. A few there were who
had knives and forks. All present seemed
to have merry hearts. Mr. Grouard rend-
ered thanks to the Great Disposer of events,
that he had lived to see that joyful day,
even to greet so many of his friends from
America and have them present on that
grand occasion! When all had feasted to a
fullness, and while remaining seated, Mr.
Grouard arose and addressed the assembly
in a most appropriate manner. He referred
to his long confinement on the Islands, be-
lieving it to be his duty to remain there till
the Elders were sent to relieve him. Thirty-
three years of his life had passed away;
truly his life had been an eventful one.
He felt that the Lord had heard his pray-
ers, in that he had lived to see the faces of
so many of his former friends, and to re-
joice with them in the midst of a humble
and loving people, whose hearts were
warm towards us and were ready to re-
ceive the truth. Thirty-three years from
that day, when he should have attained his
sixty-sixth year, he said, "I will make
another feast." All present, if living,
should be invited. We all responded a
hearty amen!
	Mr. Grouard is a gentleman distinguished
for beauty and graceful appearance; though
by being excluded too much from society,
he has acquired too large a share of gravity
and sedateness. He combines the orator, phil-

[Column 2]
osopher and preacher of righteousness, with
the sailor and native man of the Island. He
has married two Island women. The first
died, leaving him a little daughter one
month old. The second has borne him three
sons. The girl, now four years of age, was
placed in our eldest daughter’s charge, a very
sprightly child. She had never learned
one word of English from her father, which
to us seemed very surprising. With her
new teacher she made rapid improvement.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A VISIT THROUGH ONEIDA STAKE.
Franklin, Idaho, July 12, 1899.
Dear Editor Exponent:
	President Elizabeth Fox and Counselors
Mary Hawkes and D. E. Dudley started
on their annual trip around the Oneida
Stake, Monday, June 12, 1899.
	They held their first meeting at Fair-
view, President Phebe McNeal presiding.
The meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer. The subjects
spoken upon were storing grain, building
granaries, paying tithing, education of our
children and preserving the virtue and
health of the daughters of Zion. A good
spirit prevailed. Several of the local sis-
ters bore faithful testimonies.
	After enjoying dinner and sociability
with President Phebe McNeal, we pro-
ceeded on our way rejoicing to Weston,
where at 2 p. m. we found the sisters all
assembled awaiting us. Bishop Clark and
Counselor Michaelson met with us, which
was much appreciated, for it seemed to give
strength and confidence to have our
brethren meet with us. President Clark
not being able to be present, the meeting
was presided over by her first counselor,
Andrea Larsen. A good spirit prevailed.
	President Fox was the first speaker. She
was sorry Sister Clark could not be present.
Was glad the brethren were here so they
could hear what was taught to the sisters
in their ward; gave much timely in-
struction; also read the instructions to the
Relief Society which were published in the
EXPONENT of May 1, 1899, and advised
them to be kept in their record for future
reference in their society.
	Counselor Mary Hawkes was pleased to
see so many present. She could heartily
endorse the remarks of President Fox.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley, followed. Ad-
vised the sisters to take care of their health
and to teach their children to be self sup-
porting and assist them to acquire a useful
education.
	President McNeal, of Fairview, advised
the mothers not to work so hard; said many
things could be neglected. Give a mother
time to care for her little ones.
	Bishop Clark wished to encourage the sis-
ters. Said the sisters were good to the
sick and poor under all circumstances.
	Counselor Peter Michaelson appreciated
the Primary workers and all who were en-
gaged in instructing the young.
	We were kindly entertained by Sisters
Preston and Larson for the night.
	Tuesday morning early we continued
our journey to Dayton. The air was very
cool and bracing, considering it was the 13th
of June. At 10 o’clock we met with the
Relief Society of Dayton, President Sarah
Callen and counselors, and Elder Stephen
Callen being present on the stand. We
were cheered by the warmth of a coal fire,

[Column 2]
which we were much in need of, as the
morning was cold.
	President Fox was pleased to meet with
the sisters, and hoped all were active
workers. Read the printed instructions of
Eliza R. Snow Smith from the EXPONENT,
and advised the sisters to take the EXPO-
NENT and read it, etc.
	D. E. Dudley spoke of the beauty of the
fields of flowers and the grandeur of the
mountains and streams and the magnitude
of the divine work we are engaged in; said
our Father was at the helm. Spoke of the
blessings we enjoy, and of the abundance of
the crops on the dry farms of last season.
Said the Lord had opened the windows of
heaven and poured out such blessings that
we could hardly contain them all, as many
had to move out into tents and put the
grain in their dwelling houses. In one in-
stance their building burst, and the grain
ran down hill and filled a ravine. Predic-
tions of the Saints of God were being liter-
ally fulfilled every day.
	Elder Callen bore testimony to the truth
of the remarks of all who had spoken, and
pronounced the benediction.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Soci-
ety of Clifton ward. President Elizabeth
Henderson and counselors and Elder Wil-
liam Garner were present and a goodly
number of sisters. The instructions were
on the same subjects and quite lengthy,
which occupied the time from 2 until 4
o’clock, after which we partook of the sup-
per the sisters had prepared beforehand, in
company with quite a number of sisters,
and separated for the night to meet again in
Oxford at 10 o’clock.
	Promptly on time we met at the Ox-
ford meeting house with a goodly number
of sisters; and one unusual feature of the
meeting was a band of young ladies who
came and sang in the choir for the meeting.
President Lewis and her counselors were
present, and she presided over the meeting.
	None of the priesthood being present,
meeting was opened by Sister D. E. Dud-
ley, and Sister Haws was remembered in
the prayer by her request, as she was very
sick.
	President Lewis reported her branch as
in good condition but less in number, as
they had organized a branch at Swan Lake
on the 23rd of April, 1899, which had taken
the larger portion of her flock.
	After a lengthy meeting we took dinner
with President Lewis, and proceeded on to
Treasureton to fill our next appointment at
3 o’clock. We found many of the sisters
present. The people are scattered over a
district of seven or eight miles, which is a
great disadvantage to the sisters in attend-
ing meetings and acting as teachers. They
have lately completed a Relief Society
building in which they intend to hold meet-
ings and store grain. All are united in the
good work.
	We spent an enjoyable evening with
Brother and Sister Williams and proceeded
on to our District conference.
	Tuesday morning was balmy and cool,
all nature smiling. The grass was green
and the trees in blossom and clear streams
were rippling down the hillsides under-
neath the cool shade, wending their way to
field and garden, not the river. The re-
mark was made that some wise man had
said: “He who makes two blades of grass
grow where only one grew before, is a
benefactor.” Then surely the inhabitants
of these grand old hills and valleys are
benefactors to a great extent, for thousand


of blades grow where sagebrush grew be-
fore.
	We arrived at Mink Creek at 10:30 and
rested and dined with Brother and Sister
Graham. Met in conference at 2 p. m.
Present on the stand were President Eliza-
beth Fox and Counselors Mary Hawkes
and D. E. Dudley, President Graham,
Phebe McNeal and Bishop Rasmuson, of
Fairview, all of whom spoke, and the spirit
of God was abundantly enjoyed and much
good counsel was given: instructions about
building granaries, storing grain, taking
and reading the EXPONENT and paying
tithing. President Graham reported the
society in good working order. Said the
Relief Society had donated twenty dollars
to help the missionaries in the last two
years, and had looked after the poor and
done much good in general.
	Our next meeting was held at Glen Dale
at 10 o’clock Friday morning, President
Mary Ann Nelson presiding, President
Fox and Counselor D. E. Dudley, of the Stake
presidency, being present on the stand.
Meeting opened with the usual exercises;
members enrolled, 26; members present,
16. The organization is complete. The
sisters are young; they had not subscribed
for the EXPONENT as yet, but would do so.
	Proceeded on to Preston to fill our last
appointment at 2 o’clock p. m. We met
with the usual kind reception of the sisters,
who were glad to see us although we were
dusty and traveled-stained. President
Julia Roper presided. After the opening
exercises much good instruction was given,
but as it was practically the same as has
been mentioned before, it is not necessary
to repeat it here. The subject of purity
was continued, for the Gospel was never to
be taken from the earth, and God in His
wisdom had reserved noble spirits to come
forth in this day for this special work, and
He desired them to have pure and noble
bodies to live in.
	After benediction we separated to go to
our homes, feeling that we had been great-
ly blessed in our labors.
E. FOX, Pres.,
D. E. DUDLEY, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SAN LUIS STAKE.
	Minutes of a Relief Society conference
held in the Manassa Stake house, May 12,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Cornelia Mortensen presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Brother Charles Cot-
ton. Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen said we were
assembled to hold our Relief Society con-
ference, and she felt grateful to our Heaven-
ly Father for this privilege. Hoped we
would receive the spiritual food we so
much need.
	Sister Mary Jensen gave a report of Los
Cerritos branch of the Relief Society. Said:
“I am glad to meet the sisters in confer-
ence and feel that we will be blessed while
thus assembled. If we ‘do what is right
and let the consequence follow’ we will be
all right. The sisters of Los Cerritos are
very much interested in our Relief Society,
and the brethren seem to think we are do-
ing well. We read the Doctrine and
Covenants. We have some Mexican sis-
ters enrolled, and they take a great inter-
est in the labor. We should observe clean-
liness and teach it in the Relief Society, do

[Column 2]
good where we can, uphold the authorities,
pray for all and be exemplary.”
	Sister Margaret Hamil, of Morgan, said: “I
always feel like doing my duty, for I know
I have to work out my own salvation. We
are getting along fairly well at Morgan, we
have more enrolled than usual. We have
some money, property and wheat on hand,
and have a lot bought and paid for where
we intend to build a house of our own. I
would exhort the sisters to be faithful in
their duties and qualify themselves to be
able to give a cause for the hope that is
within them.”
	Sister P. E. Cullers, Mountain View
branch, said: "My brethren and sisters,
being called to give a report of the Moun-
tain View and Bountiful branches of the
Relief Society, I will endeavor to do so to
the best of my ability. The sisters are de-
sirous of doing all the good they can in for-
warding the work of the Relief Society.
We have an enrollment of twenty mem-
bers.”
	Sister Rosa Koch, of Manassa, read an
essay entitled, “The Home and Mother as
They Influence our Lives.”
	Sister Magdaline Funk said: “I am glad
to meet with my sisters in conference and
have rejoiced in listening to the reports
given. Let us be awake to our duties,
these societies are a great aid to the Bishops.
The sisters in their visits can find out the
circumstances of families that the brethren
cannot. I pray God to bless us all. Amen.”
	Sister Dollie Russell bore a strong testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
Said she had seen the power of God
made manifest in many ways.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Sister Maria
Harrison.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
singing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer
by Brother Robert Coleman. Singing, “O,
Ye mountains high.”
	Sister M. Sellers gave a report of Manas-
sa ward. Said the sisters were united and
they were trying to do all the good they
could.
	Sister Margaret Haskel gave a report of
her visit to the conference of the Relief
Society in Salt Lake City. She said she
had not felt more of the spirit of God in any
meeting than in the Relief Society confer-
ence. One sister was moved upon to speak
in tongues, and it was interpreted by
another sister. Many important subjects
were talked upon: one was unity, another
the storing of grain.
	Sister Mary F. Crowther presented the
general and local officers of the Relief Soci-
ety, and they were unanimously sustained;
also called the roll and read the minutes of
last conference.
	Sister Forthilda Funk gave a report of
Sanford ward. She said they were trying
to improve and all were feelfng well.
	Song by Sister Ada L. Maloy, entitled
“O, my Savior.”
	Sister Emily Dunn, of Eastdale, said in
reporting their society she desired to be
led by the Spirit of God. She said she had
nothing but good to say of her sisters, and
every sister in the ward had her name en-
rolled.
	Brother Orlando Funk was somewhat
surprised at being called to speak in this
conference. Bore his testimony that the
Spirit of God had been with us. He spoke
at length on cleanliness, habits and duties of
mothers.
	Sister Melvina Hutchins said she had

[Column 3]
been well paid for coming to meeting today,
and bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and power of healing by the priest-
hood, and was thankful to her Heavenly
Father for this testimony.
	Sister Irene Smith said she was thankful
to have the privilege of speaking and bear-
ing her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel; also spoke of the necessity of form-
ing good habits.
	President Cornelia Mortensen gave a re-
port of her visits together with her coun-
selors in the various wards in the Stake.
Said they found the sisters striving to do
their duties with renewed energy. Spoke
at length on cleanliness, and exhorted the
sisters to put into practice the instructions
given.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Sister Annie Westover.
CORNELIA MORTENSEN, Pres.
