[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. | Author: Unknown]

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, Thursday,
October 5, 1899, meetings commencing at
10 a. m., 2 p. m. and 7 p. m. It is desir-
able that there should be a representative
from each Stake of Zion to report, and all
officers and members, also Bishops and
brethren, are most cordially invited to
attend the meetings of the conference
of this great organization.
ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
President,
JANE S. RICHARDS,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
SARAH J. CANNON,
Counselors.


[Column 1]
GREAT EVENTS IN 1899.
	This year, 1899, has been one of great
events significant of material changes, and
brimming over with exciting details in
which the whole world is interested. Much
has transpired of general interest, and the
newspapers and associated press have not
lacked for such news as the people clamor
for in this age of feverish unrest.
	The war with Spain was scarcely settled
by treaty until the war with the Phillipines
began in dead earnest, and there is little
likelihood of any satisfactory arrangement
being made in the near future. Indeed, it
is a grave question how to adjust matters
so as to reach a peaceful solution. Mean-
time the Peace movement called for the
powers in several great nations, to unite
upon some method that would bring about
more peaceable relations when difficulties
should arise between the various countries,
either on sea or on land; and at this stage
of the civilization of the world such
measures must seem at least to be oppor-
tune; to pursue barbarous practises was all
very well in the days of feudalism, but
with the enlightenment of the nineteenth
century, surely ought to come such ration-
al and progressive advancement in com-
mercial and political and all other inter-
national matters, that some common ground
of settlement might be formulated so as to
avoid much that has been objectionable to
all right feeling people, who desire the
welfare of mankind.
	The Peace Conference at “The Hague”
has accomplished more than many of its
promoters anticipated at first. At any rate,
this remarkable conference brought togeth-

[Column 2]
er delegates from many countries eminent
for learning, wisdom and judgment, and
with such minds in close contact with each
other, naturally the result must be char-
acteristic of the whole. They came to-
gether undoubtedly to do effective work,
and certainly it was an unique event,
something “new under the sun.” The
finale acte which summed up the labor of
days and weeks has at least given fresh
courage, and a certain faith in humanity to
those who have taken note of the proceed-
ings and the ultimate outcome.
	Recently a question has arisen, whether,
after all, it was not the Pope who originated
the Peace Conference, instead of the Czar.
It is stated upon good authority, that the
papal representatives were shut out from
the deliberations of the conference; yet the
fact seems well established that the Pope’s
proposition to the Czar was made as early
as 1895. It is a well-known fact that
Pope Leo XIII. has been against war
measures, and has been greatly exercised
because war could not be prevented.
Whether the Pope or the Czar made the
first move towards calling the conference,
evidently the leaven is working, and though
the permanent good desired may not be
reached in the near future, yet the confer-
ence is certainly one of the memorable
events of the century. The influence of
the great gathering at “The Hague” will
spread abroad, and though many may
doubt its beneficient results, the world will
be the better for all such humanizing efforts.
	Another great event, and one seemingly
fraught with direful consequences, is the
Dreyfus trial, which has caused more of a
sensation—and of an entirely different char-
acter from the Peace Conference. And the
end is not yet. The effect of such proceed-
ing s cannot be in the nature of civilizing
and uplifting humanity, but exactly the
opposite. The interest in the case was not
really so much because of the moral con-
viction everywhere that Dreyfus was inno-
cent, but that the issues involved were of
such vital importance to the French nation;
and the new trial caused a great excite-
ment throughout, but the crisis was reached
when an attempt was made to assassinate
M. Labori, Dreyfus’ counsel. It is current-
ly reported that the attempt was in the in-
terest of General Mercier, whose testimony
against Dreyfus was to be subjected to
Labori’s examination.
	The idea that Dreyfus would be vindi-
cated and his innocence proved, seemed the
prevailing opinion almost to the very last;
and when the verdict was “guilty”—peo-
ple were more than surprised—indeed it
seemed an impossible thing. However,
against the almost universal opinion of the
countries nearest allied to France, and who
certainly would expect justice, even tem-
pered with mercy, yet the unexpected has
happened. What the consequences will be
it is hard to determine. Latest telegrams
seem to have indicated pardon from the
government, and now the “pardon” has
been granted, so say the telegraphic dis-
patches, by President Loubet.
	Preparatory to the pardon, which it
would seem was confidently anticipated,
“rooms were engaged for Madame Dreyfus
and children,” at Folkestone, four miles
from Dover. The kindly expressions of
the people of the place towards M. Labori
and Madame Dreyfus, were very affecting,
so say the dispatches. 
	Now that the pardon has been granted,
the French officials are fearful of a great

[Column 3]
demonstration, and prepare to get Dreyfus
out of the country before the pardon goes
into effect.

	The Transvaal is the all absorbing ques-
tion of the British government at the pres-
ent time. The general opinion is that
Cecil Rhodes finds the Transvaal as an in-
dependent Republic detrimental to the in-
dustrial, commercial and political projects
of the far-reaching imperialists. Olive
Schreiner, a South African English woman,
a writer of great force and immense popu-
larity, has recently published a book giving
her views of the entire situation; it is en-
titled “An English South African’s View of
the Situation.” This South African or
Transvaal question, is worth studying from
Olive Schreiner’s standpoint. She says: “A
new Phenomenon has started up in South
African Life. The discovery of vast stores
of mineral wealth in South Africa, more
especially gold, has attracted suddenly to
its shores a larger population, which is not
and cannot, at least at once, be South Afri-
can. These are literally foreigners. ***
To those who know the Klondyke and
Western America it is not necessary to de-
scribe Johannesburg. *** Rightly to
understand the problem before the little
Transvaal Republic today, it is necessary for
Englishmen to imagine not merely that
within ten or twelve years forty millions of
Rnssians, Frenchmen and Germans should
enter England, not in driblets and in time
extending over half a century, to be ab-
sorbed and digested in the original popula-
tion, but instantaneously and at once, not
merely to remain in England and there to
extract wealth; not merely that the bulk of
this wealth was exported at once to other
countries enriching Russia, France and
Germany out of the products of English
soil, that would be comparatively a small
matter, but that the bulk of the wealth ex-
tracted was in the hands of a few persons
and these persons opposed to the continued
freedom and independence of England, but
were attempting by the use of the wealth
they extracted from England to stir up Rus-
sia and France and Germany against her,
that through the loss of her freedom they
might the better obtain the command of
her wealth and lands. When the English-
man has vividly drawn this future for him-
self, he will hold as nearly as is possible,
in a nutshell, an image of the problem
which the people and government of the
Transvaal Republic are called on to face to-
day, and we put it straightly to him,
whether this problem is not one of in-
finite perplexity and difficulty?”
	“Much unfortunate misunderstanding has
arisen from the simple use of the terms
“capitalist” and “monopolist” in the dis-
cussion of South African matters. The
question before us is not, shall one South
African possess twenty millions, live in his
palace, live on champagne, have his yacht
in Table Bay, and deck women with a hun-
dred thousand dollars worth of jewels, while
the South African next door has nothing?
This is not our question! Our problem is
not the problem of America. *** Their
fate is bound up with the land they live in;
their ambitions are American. *** When
they die it is to American institutions they
leave their munificent donations. The mass
of the wealth they expend on themselves is
expended in America, and returns to the 
people of the country in many forms.”
	Who gains by war? is one of the ques-
tions Olive Schreiner puts forcibly.


“What matter who goads England on, or
in whose cause she undertakes war against
the Africans, she can win?” This is
a question used by the author of the book;
but she goes on to make a most thrilling
statement thereafter.
After giving a most graphic description
of the state of the country and its women
following the victory of the English, if
such a victory should be gained, she says:
‘‘You say all the fighting men in arms
might be shot. Yes, but what of the wom-
en? If there were left but five thousand
pregnant South African born women, and
all the rest of their people were destroyed,
these women would breed up again, a race
like unto the first.
	“Nearer home, we turn to one whom all
South Africa are proud of, and we would
say to Paul Kruger, ‘Great old man, first
but not last of South Africa’s great rulers,
you have shown us you could fight for
freedom show us you can win peace.’
	“On the foot of that great statue which in
the future the men and women of South
Africa will raise to you, let this stand writ-
ten: ‘This man loved freedom and fought
for it, but his heart was large; he could
forget injuries and deal generously.’ On
our great African flag let us emblazon
these words, never to take them down:
‘Freedom, Justice, Love, great are the two
first, but without the last they are not com-
plete’”
	
	These three great events mentioned are
significant of tumults and calamities, and it
would indeed seem that the elements of
civilization are stirred to the very centre.
One could enumerate dozens, yes scores of
other subjects of serious importance, but
there is no need of particularizing further
to show that the scripture, II. Timothy,
3-1, is being fulfilled, “that in the last days
perilous times shall come.”
The latest news from Dreyfus is of his
pardon being secured, his departure from
France to some place unknown, (disputing
the retreat to Folkestone) and the failure of
his health under the mental as well as
physical strain he has undergone. The
dispatches of September 20, state: “Cap-
tain Alfred Dreyfus at 3 o’clock this morn-
ing left the prison * * and proceeded to
Vern, where he took a train bound for
Nantes.” Mme. Dreyfus left Rennes at
noon, accompanied by her father and
friends.”

	Latest news from South Africa report
that Prest. Kruger or the Transvaal govern-
ment has appealed to at least three Europ-
ean powers for mediation in the Anglo-
Boer dispute, and that the three powers
were represented at the Hague Peace Con-
ference. Here is a good opportunity for
practical work in the direction of arbitra-
tion. Let us hope the appeal will not be
in vain.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	EDITORIAL NOTES
	THE regular annual business meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society will
be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, on Monday, October 2, 1899, at 2
o'clock p.m. 	All officers and members of
the society are cordially invited to be pres-
ent.
	E. B. WELLS, Gen. Sec.
	
	A SUGGESTION has been made that
Tooele, Davis, Weber, Box Elder, Morgan,

[Column 2]
Cache, Summit and Wasatch Counties
be solicited to furnish students for Dr.
Roberts’ training class. She would like to
have one hundred or more.

	THE City of Rome, which sailed from
Glasgow on the 26th of August, ult., had
on board, returning home, some of the
ladies who went to London to attend the
International Council, and others who had
been over visiting in England, France and
Scotland, others collecting genealogy, and
also missionaries, one lady, at least, and
several brethren. Among the lady passen-
gers were Mrs. Elizabeth Claridge McCune,
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings and Miss Lucile
Jennings, of this city; Mrs. Jesse Knight,
of Provo, and Mrs. Lettie Dewey Campbell,
of Deweyville. All these sisters return in
good health and spirits, notwithstanding
the thrilling incident of an iceberg striking
the steamer and creating much alarm among
the passengers, in fact, giving them all a
good shaking up. One young man from
New York, a clergyman who had been
traveling in England for his health, went
violently insane, the shock being too great
for him in his weak state. This brings
back to Utah all the ladies who attended
the International Council and Congress, ex-
cept those who remain to labor as mission-
aries.
	THE Utah Society of the Daughters of
the Revolution, met as a sort of sociable on
Saturday, September 16, at 3 p. m., at the
residence of Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, East
Waterloo. The house was prettily decor-
ated with flowers in every available place;
late roses, bright, beautiful nasturtiums
and astors. Several letters from head-
quarters were read, the correspondence
which has accumulated during the absence
of the Regent; the remainder of the time was
occupied by the Regent (Mrs. E. B. Wells)
giving an account of her trip to London
and Paris, and the receptions tendered to
the International Council, including the
visit to Windsor Castle and tea in St.
George's Hall. The "five o'clock tea,"
with many delicious delicacies was a pleasant
part of the social affair. The table was
beautiful with floral decorations, and each
guest was given a knot of ribbon the colors
of the society. Regrets were expressed at
the absence of the First Vice-Regent, who
was expected to add something descriptive
of her trip to London; and also the absence
of the Recording Secretary, whose approach-
ing marriage was the apology for her not be-
ing present. The next meeting will be held
in the Templeton, room 208, on Monday,
October 16, at 3 p. m. All members are
urgently requested to attend, that a course
of study may be begun for the winter.

	DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS expects to
open another class for a Corps of Nurses in
November of this year. It is ardently
hoped that under the auspices of the Relief
Society in the several Stakes of Zion near
Salt Lake County, suitable young and mid-
dle aged women may be selected who have
the ability and aptitude for this employ-
ment, after taking a course of physiology
and general nursing. The term will con-
tinue for seven months with three lessons a
week. Each student must be supplied with text books, note books and pencils, cost not
exceeding $2.50. Dr. Roberts will have
some of the best surgeons and physicians of
Salt Lake City to give lessons during the
course. As the course of instruction will

[Column 3]
be given free of charge, in consideration
of this free course of study. each sister
taking it will agree for a certain length of
time to nurse under the direction of the
president of the Relief Society in the re-
spective locality where she resides free of
charge, unless permitted to do otherwise be-
cause of circumstances. A suitable room
will be furnished for the lectures and in-
struction. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts tenders
her services free to the Relief Society, for
the benefit of that organization, and that
the sick, who have not faith to be healed,
may be nourished with care and skill, and
that not by the hand of an enemy, "accord-
ing to the word of the Lord to the Latter-
day Saints. For further particulars apply
to Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 75 North State
Street, Salt Lake City.


