[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 832 | Fiction | A Miracle at Christmas | Louise Harmon]
The time passed quickly, with all the cleaning to do, paper chains to hang, and decorations to make. Then Christmas Eve shadows began to gather us into the excitement of a hallowed night. Anxiously, our young eyes pried at the door until Daddy finally came home from work. But his big arms were empty... Not even a pine branch! Tears stung my eyes and disappointment overwhelmed me. It just couldn't be! Mama's playing "Jingle Bells" brought all my little brothers trooping into the living room for Home Evening. Slowly, I folA Miracle at Christmas lowed and longingly I looked at the empty corner. How could Daddy let us down? Didn't he know how much it mattered? Somehow the evening passed, the long brown stockings were hung, prayers softly said, and Mama tucked us into bed. Strains of "Silent Night" floated from the piano and flickering shadows from the red tapers lulled us. I sadly comforted myself thinking about Jesus and how he never had a tree. "Sleep in heavenly peace," sang Mama, and I did. Excited shouts from my little brothers suddenly awakened me. As I flew out of bed onto the cold, slick linoleum, I could hear them crying, "Oh, Weezie, come here quick! Look at our tree! We have a Christmas tree, and it's right on our table." I stood speechless with wonder and delight. There, indeed, stood a lovely tree, and presents were heaped under fragrant branches. Our Father had not let us down! Such joy and excitement as we gazed and marveled at the miracle. Little did we realize then that this miracle at Christmas was our father's own creation, fashioned with hands of love late on that Christmas Eve. One of the teachers, upon hearing of our indigent circumstances, had kindly offered him the branches trimmed from that tall tree at school. After drilling holes in a small pole, he had carefully fitted and nailed each branch into place, and a tree was born. That tree, when viewed through the eyes of love and faith, became the most beautiful, unforgettable tree in all this world to four small children on a prairie many years ago. 839 inside ando ay — € parents are the sa e not jus 9 share the sar hard to u'll know the at special s hat deed The sisters o To cherish, I But sister. Are sent fre Sisters are not al OSE NITES TES IER TRS IES TSS TES SOS ES SEATS SES SE REFRESHMENTS FOR THE HOLIDAY SEASON Zola McGhie Hot Cider 2 quarts cider 2 tsp. Whole cloves juice of 3 lemons 2 sticks cinnamon Simmer for 15 minutes, remove spices, and add: 4 cups unchilled gingerale 4 cups orange carbonated soda Serve hot and garnish with orange or lemon slices. Hot Spiced Cider (Old English) 1 gallon sweet cider 1 tbsp. Whole cloves 1144 pounds brown sugar 1 tbsp. Whole allspice 6 two-inch pieces cinnamon 14 tsp. Salt Mix in order given, and bring to the boiling point. Boil fifteen minutes and strain. Serve hot.. Punch for Twenty-Five Boil for 10 minutes: 1144 c. Water and 214 c. Sugar 2 c. Fruit syrup or fruit juice (preferReserve 14 c. Ably raspberry or Loganberry) 2 c. Orange juice 1 c. Maraschino cherries, with juice To the remainder add: 1 c. Lemon juice 2 c. White grape juice, pineapple juice, or crushed pineapple Stir. Let stand for 30 minutes or more. Drain and add ice water to make 2 gallons of liquid just before serving. Add reserved syrup if needed. Christmas Punch 1 quart pineapple juice 1 quart vanilla ice cream (well chilled) 1 quart lemon sherbet 1 quart gingerale grated nutmeg Place ice cream and sherbet in Jarge punch bowl. Add juice. When ice cream and sherbet begin to soften, beat until frothy. Pour in gingerale. Top with nutmeg. Makes four quarts. Christmas Wassail 84 c. Sugar 1 gallon cider 4 c. Water 5 or 6 tbsp. Candied ginger, chopped 2 tbsp. (about 25) whole cloves 4 quarts canned orange juice 25 cinnamon sticks 2 c. Lemon juice Combine sugar and water. Boil 10 minutes. Add spices and let mixture stand in warm place for 1 hour. Strain. Add orange juice, lemon juice, and cider. Bring to boil and serve. Yields 4 gallons. Serves 54 to 60.
