[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 843 | Home | Simple Addition to a School Wardrobe | Shirley Thulin]
[Simple Addition to a School Wardrobe Shirley Thulin]

843 November 1967

 o 4 BLEAK AUTUMN Christie Lund Coles The tules are broken along the river, The milkweed pods are barren of seed; The water is a meandering sliver Through a border of rock and tumbleweed; The golden hills have faded to umber, The scene, in the distance, is stark, austere; Each bird seems wrapped in a songless slumber; There is a chilling silence far and near. The clouds are a host of black masts driven By relentless winds toward the somber night; Then, all of a sudden, the sky is riven And all the scars of earth are healed and white; Wonder replaces bleakness and sorrow, Crystalline beauty awaits us tomorrow. Grandmother Said Evelyn Fijeldsted Growing old is living with the calm assurance and anticipation of things yet to come. It is knowing that the hardships and sorrows of yesterday are in the past. It is the time of the after-years, when the sunlight never seemed so gently warm, the moon becomes a light from heaven, and a flower garden could be a white freesia blooming in the window. It is a time of wistful thinking, remembering all the sweet little incidents that were so wonderful and made life so worthwhile, and also wishing that some things could have been different, too. It is drifting in a realm of peace. The storms have largely come and gone, and life's drama is, for a little while, forgotten. It is a time of solid conviction that wrongs will be made right—sometime. It is finding a great love—a love that young people realize only by living through the years. Growing old should bring greater insight and understanding; a page has been turned and a new page is being learned. It is believing in God simply because he is there, and having faith in him is as natural as breathing, even though faith is sometimes a mystery to reason. It is a time when things that once seemed so important have almost lost their reality. It is the after-years that bring the inexpressible joy of work almost finished—a story that cannot be told. It is following a course toward a terminal where the homefolks are waiting with a glad welcome and where there will be a great reunion.