[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 842 | General Feature | November Alda | L. Brown]

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young girl in a striped top and patterned skirt holding what appears to be a bottle]

Simple Addition to a School Wardrobe
                                                                                                    Shirley Thulin

Make a school dress that is inexpensive and lots of fun. A beginning seamstress can even make it herself and feel the satisfaction of accomplishment, for this sewing project is simple, yet looks professional.

You begin with a purchased "poor-boy" top—the kind many girls are wearing these days. They come in many pretty colors and launder very well. They make a good beginning for a new dress. Choose a plain color and then buy a piece of fabric in a print or plaid to match or contrast with the shirt. The amount of fabric to buy will vary according to the type of skirt you want to make. If you want to have pleats all around, you will need two yards of material. A straight skirt will require less. If the shirt fits snugly, you will need a long zipper, if it is loose and slips over the head, you will not have to use a zipper. This dress will be long-waisted, because the shirt fits down over the hips.

To make: If you are going to use a zipper, it should be as long as the shirt is from the top of the neck to about an inch from the bottom hem. Cut the shirt down the back, straight at the center. Now make a 5/8 inch seam, using the longest machine stitch. Baste the closed zipper along the seam, centering the zipper. Now machine stitch along the baste stitches, and remove the seam (figure 2).

If your skirt is going to be pleated, make sure the pleats are all even, by pinning them all in place before stitching to the skirt. Use a ruler to get them all the same depth (figure 1). Stitch the skirt to the shirt and hem. Now press the pleats.

If the skirt is straight, just sew a length of material all around the shirt, leaving only a back seam. Hem about a two-inch hem.

If you would like a fashion note, place loops for a belt at each side, and one in the center back.

842
