[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 813 | Special Feature | Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford 816 | ]
[Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford 816]
[Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967.]

The Heart
and
Willing Mind

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Counselor Louise W. Madsen

[Address Delivered at the
General Session of the Relief
Society Annual General
Conference
September 27, 1967]

• Two things the Lord requires if one is to obtain the fullness of his blessings. "Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind" (D&C 64:34).

The heart, according to the understanding received from studying the words of Christ, his prophets and apostles, is the repository of that which is good, the storehouse of those thoughts which bring the deepest meditation. Those things which are heard but not fully understood are stored in the heart to ponder, as did Mary. When the events leading to the birth of the Son were unfolded she "pondered them in her heart" (Luke 2:19).

The pure heart is the dwelling place of the Holy Ghost. "Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart" (D&C 8:2). This is the promise given to those who ask in faith, with an honest heart, believing that knowledge will be received.

The heart is not only a repository and a storehouse but it is a motive power. "With my whole heart I have sought thee; O let me not wander from thy commandments," the Psalmist sings (Psalms 119:10). Love, which is described as the greatest thing in the world, the basis of the first and greatest commandment, is centered in the heart. "I have you in my heart" (Phil. 1:7), Paul writes to his beloved people, the Philippians. Compassion, the desire to express love by serving others, springs from the heart. The heart rejoices in righteousness or is saddened by unrighteousness. It is the heart which

813

November 1967

guides the soul to repentance, the sorrowing heart which seeks expiation for sin. It is the heart filled to overflowing which leads to expressions of gratitude.

The heart is the seat of courage, of nobleness. It is in its chambers the spirit of forgiveness is found. The heart reacts to the appeal of the gospel; it feels the warmth of God's word and the joy of his work. Faith is believing with the heart.

Conversely, sadly, the opposite can be true. Sometimes the heart is filled with evil, crowding out the good, the clean, the joyous, the right. Only the Lord knows what is actually in the heart. "But the Lord said unto Samuel," as he sought to find a successor to Saul, "Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature . . . for the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart" (1 Sam. 16:7).

This, then, is the heart the Lord requires, the pure, humble, repentant, compassionate, forgiving, loving heart; the repository of his words, the storehouse of truths for meditations, the motivator of righteous action. "Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength, and my redeemer," we may pray as did David (Psalms 19:14).

A willing mind the Lord also requires; willing to accept his teachings, to cast out doubt, to do his work. A teachable mind, open, ready, desiring to learn, is mandatory. A strong mind, filled with the strength of knowing the

truth, and one which does not "weary of well doing" (D&C 64: 32) is necessary. A tireless mind which accepts the commandment, "Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today" (D&C 64:25), is required. A mind with vision, ready to receive the life-enriching gospel, able to see with clarity the wisdom of dedication to the will of the Lord, will respond to the whispering of the "still, small voice," the burning within the breast, and the urging of the spirit.

The heart and willing mind signify obedience. That which is required by the Lord of us living in these latter days is wholehearted, whole-souled, whole-minded obedience. Perhaps the greatest willingness the Lord requires is willingness to be obedient. One shows his devotion and dedication by obedience.

The element of sacrifice enters into a contemplation of obedience, a willingness to sacrifice immediate pleasures and desires for ultimate blessings. The grace of submission to divine will, to authority, is gained when one can say, "Lord, what wilt thou have me do?" (Acts 9:6). His chosen people are the obedient, chosen because of their willingness to obey.

Know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the Lord searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts: if thou seek him, he will be found of thee; but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever (1 Chron. 28:9).

This admonition should be our guide. This the Lord requires.

814

[PHOTOGRAPH]

STEADFAST
Gilean Douglas

How many winters must have come to fling
their might against the pine's eternal spring.

HAL RUMEL
