[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 3 | Fiction | Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter | ]
[Content needs re-extraction — duplicate of following article]

**Unwelcome Caller**    *Nancy M. Armstrong*

Every muscle in my body screamed as I climbed out of bed. Never mind, the house was spotless. Windows shone, woodwork gleamed, curtains were crispy white. All the hard work of readying for Christmas was done. Only pleasurable tasks remained. Last minute touches to decorations, packages, and food would consume the next two days. Then the transcendent day, with eighteen family members invited for dinner. Well, everything was under control.

Suddenly, I smelled smoke. Throwing on a robe, I dashed to the kitchen. Thick smoke was issuing around every lid on the range. I tried every conceivable adjustment of the dampers. With each change, more smoke puffed out heavier and blacker.

Opening the back door, I called to my husband who was in the coal shed filling buckets. The breeze, created by opening the door, wafted smoke into the other rooms.

Originally, the old farm house we had purchased our first year of marriage, had doors to isolate each room. But we had had to be modern. In remodeling we removed most of the doors. The smoke surged through the dining room and into my newly decorated living room.

When my husband came in, he said, "Something is clogging the chimney or firebox. I'll have to lift the fire out to find out what it is."

I moaned, but there was nothing else he could do.

As he lifted the lids, fly ash and soot joined the smoke. After carrying the smoldering coal outside in a bucket, he came back to say he would have to take down the stovepipe.

Warm fly ash and soot cascaded down the wall behind the stove as the pipe was removed. I opened the kitchen door and the back porch door so my husband could carry the pipe into the yard. I returned to survey my wrecked kitchen that resembled a scene from the

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of an owl sitting in what appears to be a chimney opening, surrounded by soot and ash stains]

January 1967

"Last Days of Pompeii." Little swirls of soot whirled here and there on the floor. Fly ash was settling on chairs, table, cupboards, and refrigerator. I sat down at the table, put my head on my arms and wept.

My husband came in to say, "A little owl was clogging the pipe. He must have been asphyxiated last night while sitting on the chimney, and fell in."

I who am a complete pushover for all animals and birds could feel no sympathy. I was drenched in self-pity.

My husband put his arm around my shoulders. "At least I know what you need for Christmas now," he said.

"What?" I asked through tears.

"A guard for the top of the chimney to keep out unwelcome callers."

I made no reply.

"Oh, cheer up, honey," he said. "It could have been a lot worse."

"How?"

"Well he could have waited until Christmas Eve to play Santa."

Oh, what a gruesome idea! With eighteen guests coming for dinner.

My husband filled a bucket at the sink. "Where will I find a scrubbing brush and a box of detergent?" he asked.

Raising my head, I managed a feeble smile. "I'll get into a work dress and be right back."

Indeed things could have been a lot worse.


LOVE'S MAGIC

Leone W. Doxey

A housekeeper is a homemaker if she shares her love;
Tasks do not drag her down, her spirit soars above.
Material things in her home become the tools at hand;
They work magic when her love is in command.
She greets the day with tenderness, a song, and sunny smile,
A table set attractively makes breakfast worthwhile;
Her children go to school with their clothes washed clean,
Ironed smooth, and mended with love in every seam.
A token of her kindness, so thoughtful and sweet,
Is often found in a lunch box—a special treat.

Clean sheets on all the beds at night
Tuck in love and say, "Sleep tight."
Oh, love is a wonderful, powerful thing;
The woman who works with it hears life sing.

44

SANDWICH SURPRISES

Joyce B. Bailey

Busy housewives call time and time again on the lowly sandwich to fill the gap at mealtime. Here are some sandwich ideas to make any husband, teenager, or child wish it were sandwich-time more often!

Broiled Supper Sandwiches:

CHICKEN-CHEESE CHARMERS

Place sliced cooked chicken on buttered toast. Sprinkle it with crumbled Roquefort cheese. Cover with strips of bacon (notched to prevent curling), and broil for about ten minutes, or until the bacon is crisp. For a special treat, place sliced tomatoes on the chicken before adding the cheese. This will be a family favorite.

PEANUT BUTTER AND TOMATO TOASTED

Toast slices of bread on one side. Spread the untoasted side with a mixture of peanut butter, chopped cooked bacon, and bacon drippings. Top with a thin slice of tomato sprinkled with ½ tsp. brown sugar. Place under the broiler for a few minutes, serve, and enjoy.

TUNA TUG BOATS

Cut tomatoes into thick slices and place on buttered toast. Season with salt and pepper and pinch of brown sugar. Drain and flake a 7 oz. can of tuna and combine with mayonnaise. Spread the tuna mixture on the tomatoes and sprinkle with grated sharp cheese. Broil until the cheese is melted and serve piping hot.

Lunch Box Treats:

CORNED BEEF SANDWICH

Combine ¼ c. sharp American cheese with 2 tbsp. mayonnaise. Add 4 oz. canned corn beef, shredded, and ¼ c. sour-sweet pickles, finely chopped, 1 tbsp. grated onion, and 2 tbsp. chopped celery. Season with salt, if needed, and spread on thick whole-wheat slices of bread with crisp lettuce.

CHICKEN SPECIALS

Spread whole-wheat or rye bread with cream cheese, softened with a little milk or cream. Add slices of cooked chicken, chopped green olives, and salt. Add crisp lettuce, and what a treat!

ITALIAN SUPER SALAD

Split a large French roll and spread the halves with mayonnaise. Place thick slices of tomato, a slice of salami, and two anchovies on one side. Top with crisp lettuce and the other half of the roll.

HAWAIIAN CLUB SANDWICH

This is always special, for guests or for the family. Prepare 3 slices of toast for each serving. Cover slice #1 with a lettuce leaf, 3 crisp slices of hot bacon, slices of tomato, mayonnaise, and a drained slice of canned pineapple. Place slice #2 on top and cover it with slices of cold turkey or chicken and mayonnaise. Place slice #3 on top and cut diagonally.

45

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Agnes Kunz Dansie—Versatile Artist of Handicraft

Agnes Kunz Dansie, Herriman, Utah, learned to quilt when she was fourteen years old. Her pieced quilts in Sunburst pattern and Double Wedding Ring are reminiscent of "economy craftsmanship" of early days in the mountain valleys. Later, her satin quilts, in exquisite design and with fine and even stitchery, have won awards at many State and County Fairs. She has made more than one hundred quilts. To her skill in quiltmaking, Sister Dansie has added such crafts as crocheting, knitting, embroidery, making rugs and decorative pillows, baby bonnets and bootees, and sewing aprons and other clothing. As a sort of "side hobby," as she calls it, she painted some lovely landscapes. Articles of her handicraft adorn the homes of her eight children and thirty-six grandchildren. She has now begun to make gifts for the great-grandchildren.

She has served for twenty-three continuous years as Relief Society Magazine representative for her ward, and has never achieved less than a one hundred per cent record. One year she secured 118 per cent subscriptions. She is genealogical representative for her family and rejoices in record keeping and temple work. An admonition she gives for all Relief Society women, and for people everywhere: "When you are given a responsibility, do your best!"

46
