[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 802 | Poem | I want to thank you for the excellent article "Mix and Match Wardrobes" (by Ethelynn Keiser) in the June 1967 issue of the Magazine. This came just in time to make my daughter a wardrobe for college. It was so much simpler and inexpensive to make than outfits not coordinated. Bernice Kentner North Platte, Nebraska The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish is a great help to me in every sense. I have acquired a great deal of knowledge through it. Its inspired articles sustain me and encourage me to appreciate the beautiful things in life, which at the same time are so simple and accessible to all. All the poems and stories are choice and beautiful. Odilia J. De Simon San Jose, Uruguay Many times I have gone to The Relief Society Magazine for comfort, and have found the thoughts of the sisters comforting and stimulating. Thanks for the guidance and inspiration contained in the Magazine and delivered in our meetings. Cheryl Barney San Diego, California Thanks to Mary Scopes for the illustration for my story "Home Again" (August 1965). I wonder if she comes as close with all her drawings. My ten-year-old said, "Say, Mom, how did the artist know you are 'pleasingly plump'?" which is the way we discreetly refer to my appearance around here. I am particularly enjoying the serial "The Golden Chain," by Hazel M. Thompson (concluded in September 1967). The story of the life of Emma Ray Riggs McKay (June and July 1967) was especially inspiring. Fae P. Thomas Orangeville, | Utah VOLUME]
I want to thank you for the excellent article "Mix and Match Wardrobes" (by Ethelynn Keiser) in the June 1967 issue of the Magazine. This came just in time to make my daughter a wardrobe for college. It was so much simpler and inexpensive to make than outfits not coordinated. Bernice Kentner North Platte, Nebraska The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish is a great help to me in every sense. I have acquired a great deal of knowledge through it. Its inspired articles sustain me and encourage me to appreciate the beautiful things in life, which at the same time are so simple and accessible to all. All the poems and stories are choice and beautiful. Odilia J. De Simon San Jose, Uruguay Many times I have gone to The Relief Society Magazine for comfort, and have found the thoughts of the sisters comforting and stimulating. Thanks for the guidance and inspiration contained in the Magazine and delivered in our meetings. Cheryl Barney San Diego, California Thanks to Mary Scopes for the illustration for my story "Home Again" (August 1965). I wonder if she comes as close with all her drawings. My ten-year-old said, "Say, Mom, how did the artist know you are 'pleasingly plump'?" which is the way we discreetly refer to my appearance around here. I am particularly enjoying the serial "The Golden Chain," by Hazel M. Thompson (concluded in September 1967). The story of the life of Emma Ray Riggs McKay (June and July 1967) was especially inspiring. Fae P. Thomas Orangeville, Utah Those Who End