[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Group of Relief Society Presidents Frontispiece Charity (A P]
THE 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  V.  APRIL,  1918.  No.  4 
Our  Relief  Society  Stake  Presidents. 
By  Sttsa  Young  Gates. 
The  organization  founded  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
March  17,  1842,  has  done  much  more  than  can  be  expressed 
in  words  for  woman  as  a  sex,  for  the  individual  woman,  and 
especially  for  the  "Mormon"  woman.  The  lessons  of  self-re- 
liance, independent  thinking,  and  humanitarian  development, 
have  been  beyond  price.  The  limitations  of  mortality  give 
no  measurement  with  which  to  weigh  and  estimate  the  incal- 
culable good  which  has  accrued  to  the  home,  the  family,  and  the 
state,  through  the  training  given  to  women  by  the  Relief  Society. 
We  may  dimly  feel  and  feebly  express  this  great  human  gain, 
but  not  until  eternity  widens  our  vision  and  perfects  our  appre- 
hension will  we  know  the  value  of  the  mission  given  in  1842. 
The  organization  machinery  of  the  Relief  Society,  in  these 
few  short  days  of  1918,  has  won  the  plaudits  of  generous 
minded  observers  both  in  our  local  circles  and  in  the  councils  of 
the  nation  at  Washintgon.  The  living  machinery  of  the  Relief 
Society  rests  upon  the  lives  and  characters  of  the  women  who  ad- 
minister in  its  functions.  The  general  governing  Board,  with 
headquarters  in  Salt  Lake  City,  are  but  a  handful  of  women 
named  by  the  general  Church  authorities  and,  with  all  their  lim- 
itations, well  deserve  the  responsibility  placed  upon  them.  But 
they  would  be  helpless  indeed  without  the  second  and  third  bodies 
of  women,  also  chosen  by  inspiration,  whom  we  call  stake  and 
ward  presidents  and  who  administer  the  affairs  of  the  various  or- 
ganizations in  their  diocese.  These  women  must  be  broad  in  sym- 
pathy, mellow  of  heart,  quick  of  intellect,  and  possessed  of  that 
matchless  gift,  executive  power.  We  have  been  presenting  to 
our  readers  the  portraits  of  some  of  our  able  stake  presidents. 
We  hope  to  include  all  of  these  leading  women  in  the  Church,  ere' 
this  series  of  portraits  is  completed.    We  are  proud  to  grace  these

188  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
pag'es  in  this  manner,  and  to  present  to  each  other  and  to  the 
world  a  pictured  testimony  concerning  the  women  of  Zion. 
Our  group  of  faces  this  month  is  particularly  interesting, 
for  among  these  are  some  of  our  ablest  and  wisest  officials.  We 
have  Pres.  Annie  C.  Hindley,  alert,  tactful,  generous  and 
zealous ;  Pres.  Thompson,  an  up-to-date,  vigorous  executive  of- 
ficer; Pres.  Ericson,  the  soul  of  probity  and  faithfulness;  Pres. 
Boswell,  eagerly  engaged  in  making  a  banner  stake  of  her  newly 
organized  group.  Especialy  would  we  draw  attention  to  Sister 
Martha  F.  Keeler,  for  the  reason  that  not  only  is  she  a  noble 
type  of  her  class,  but  she  has  given  a  supreme  evidence  of  her 
wisdom  and  unselfish  devotion  to  duty. 
Sister  Keeler  laid  the  foundation  of  her  life-work  in  dutiful 
home  toil.  She  sought  education  at  its  fountain  head,  when  she 
entered  the  Brigham  Young  University,  in  1882,  and  the  next 
year  she  married  one  of  the  rising  forces  in  that  institution,  Jo- 
seph B.  Keeler.  She  has  been  the  mother  of  ten  active,  exemplary 
children.  Out  of  the  stress  and  strain  of  continuous  motherhood, 
never  with  a  servant  in  the  house,  she  has  educated  each  of  her 
children  at  the  expense  of  her  own  vital  needs ;  for,  although  the 
helpful  family  has  each  given  domestic  assistance,  the  burden 
ever  fell  heaviest  and  remained  longest  on  the  mother's  shoulders. 
In  1906  she  was  appointed  president  of  the  Utah  Stake 
Relief  Society.  She  possesses  in  unmeasured  quality  the  rare 
power  to  share  her  responsibilities,  labors  and  honors  with  every 
other  gifted  and  eagerly  ambitious  worker  near  her,  without  a 
trace  of  personal  jealousy  or  nagging  'envy.  Under  her  benign 
influence  all  avenues  of  Relief  Society  work  budded,  blossomed 
and  bore  fruit.  Among  the  very  first,  if  not  the  first,  stake  Re- 
lief Societies  in  the  Church,  she  directed  an  outline  course  of 
study  to  be  prepared  and  printed  ;  committees  were  appointed  ;  the 
work  was  divided,  systematized  and  regulated ;  union  meetings 
were  instituted  monthly  in  connection  with  the  stake  priesthood 
meetings,  where  every  interest  and  function  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety was  developed  through  reports  discussed  in  each  separate 
department.  Lessons  were  here  given  first  to  ward  teachers,  and 
system  marked  all  the  labors. 
During  the  past  year,  when  the  war  has  risen  above  all  com- 
mon interests  and  needs,  when  the  poor  have  forgotten  their 
wants  and  have  contributed  help  and  a  measure  of  their  pittance 
for  war  charity  and  conservation,  this  wise  stake  president  has 
kept  her  public  balance-vv^heel  so  delicately  adjusted  that  the  na- 
tion's call  has  been  met  and  answered  in  every  home  in  that 
stake ;  and  still  no  one  study,  no  one  charitable  activity,  no  phase 
•of  Relief  Society  work  proper,  has  been  neglected  or  even 
slighted.    Yet  the  strain  of  directing,  the  wearing  burden  of  large
