the General Board. Mrs. Wells' two daughters, Mrs. Isabel Sears and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, and her two old friends, Mrs. Susan Wells and Mrs. Susan Smith, were special guests of the occasion. Mrs. Williams acted as toast-mistress and ninety events in the life of Mrs. Wells were reviewed by the Board members. For each event a lighted candle was placed upon the birthday cake. The rooms were filled with flowers, gifts from numerous friends. A musical was held in the early afternoon hours and was followed by a reception from 4 to 7 p. m., when hundreds of friends called to pay their respects to this much beloved woman. In addition to the many floral gifts, telegrams and letters from all over the country were recieved by Mrs. Wells. Among them were messages of greeting from President Joseph F. Smith, and Bishop C. W. Nibley (who were both in California), Senator Reed Smoot, Colonel Richard W. Young and Major and Mrs. Woods. A moving picture was taken on the occasion, which will be very interesting to Relief Society workers and all admirers of President Emmeline B. Wells. Social Work. The Social Advisory Committee of the Church, which is composed of representatives from each of the six General Boards, and which is under the chairmanship of Elder Stephen L. Richards, is compiling the data received from the various stakes in answer to questionaires on social work sent out some time ago by each of the General Boards, under the direction of the Committee. The data received from each stake, through the six auxiliary organizations of the stake, gives the Committee a very good idea of the 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. exact conditions existing. Some stake organizations have not been heard from. It is to be regretted that Stake Relief Societies have not all reported. War Cook Book. A neat, little cook book was recently published by the Red Cross Relief Society Auxiliary of Provo, Utah. The idea of arranging a War Time Cook Book originated with Mrs. Jennie Knight Mangum a member o