[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Our Relief Society Stake Presidents Susa Young Gates]

Our Relief Society Stake Presidents. By Susa Young Gates. The organization founded by the Prophet Joseph Smith, March 17, 1842, has done much more than can be expressed in words for woman as a sex, for the individual woman, and especially for the "Mormon" woman. The lessons of self-reliance, independent thinking, and humanitarian development, have been beyond price. The limitations of mortality give no measurement with which to weigh and estimate the incalculable good which has accrued to the home, the family, and the state, through the training given to women by the Relief Society. We may dimly feel and feebly express this great human gain, but not until eternity widens our vision and perfects our apprehension will we know the value of the mission given in 1842. The organization machinery of the Relief Society, in these few short days of 1918, has won the plaudits of generous minded observers both in our local circles and in the councils of the nation at Washington. The living machinery of the Relief Society rests upon the lives and characters of the women who administer in its functions. The general governing Board, with headquarters in Salt Lake City, are but a handful of women named by the general Church authorities and, with all their limitations, well deserve the responsibility placed upon them. But they would be helpless indeed without the second and third bodies of women, also chosen by inspiration, whom we call stake and ward presidents and who administer the affairs of the various organizations in their diocese. These women must be broad in sympathy, mellow of heart, quick of intellect, and possessed of that matchless gift, executive power. We have been presenting to our readers the portraits of some of our able stake presidents. We hope to include all of these leading women in the Church, ere this series of portraits is completed. We are proud to grace these 
 pages in this manner, and to present to each other and to the world a pictured testimony concerning the women of Zion.
188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. pages in this manner, and to present to each other and to the world a pictured testimony concerning the women of Zion. Our group of faces this month is particularly interesting, for among these are some of our ablest and wisest officials. We have Pres. Annie C. Hindley, alert, tactful, generous and zealous; Pres. Thompson, an up-to-date, vigorous executive officer; Pres. Erickson, the soul of probity and faithfulness; Pres. Boswell, eagerly engaged in making a banner stake of her newly organized group. Especially would we draw attention to Sister Martha F. Keeler, for the reason that not only is she a noble type of her class, but she has given a supreme evidence of her wisdom and unselfish devotion to duty. Sister Keeler laid the foundation of her life-work in dutiful home toil. She sought education at its fountain head, when she entered the Brigham Young University, in 1882, and the next year she married one of the rising forces in that institution, Joseph B. Keeler. She has been the mother of ten active, exemplary children. Out of the stress and strain of continuous motherhood, never with a servant in the house, she has educated each of her children at the expense of her own vital needs; for, although the helpful family has each given domestic assistance, the burden ever fell heaviest and remained longest on the mother's shoulders. In 1906 she was appointed president of the Utah Stake Relief Society. She possesses in unmeasured quality the rare power to share her responsibilities, labors and honors with every other gifted and eagerly ambitious worker near her, without a trace of personal jealousy or nagging envy. Under her benign influence all avenues of Relief Society work budded, blossomed and bore fruit. Among the very first, if not the first, stake Relief Societies in the Church, she directed an outline course of study to be prepared and printed; committees were appointed; the work was divided, systematized and regulated; union meetings were instituted monthly in connection with the stake priesthood meetings, where every interest and function of the Relief Society was developed through reports discussed in each separate department. Lessons were here given first to ward teachers, and system marked all the labors. During the past year, when the war has risen above all common interests and needs, when the poor have forgotten their wants and have contributed help and a measure of their pittance for war charity and conservation, this wise stake president has kept her public balance-wheel so delicately adjusted that the nation's call has been met and answered in every home in that stake; and still no one study, no one charitable activity, no phase of Relief Society work proper, has been neglected or even slighted. Yet the strain of directing, the wearing burden of large OUR RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENT. 189 responsibility together with the overcrowding home duties sent warning to the soul of this woman leader in Israel, and in all wisdom and humility she answered that call. She had seen the younger women about her grow and develop into the possibilities of the leadership within them; and, like the Latter-day Saint that she is, she decided modestly and quietly to step aside and let younger, stronger women pick up the burdens she had trained them to assume. Quietly, on the 1st of February, 1918, Sister Keeler resigned her position, at the same time accepting a minor office in the Board, so that the younger women should not be deprived of her counsel and help. Listen to her own statement: "Many of my friends have wondered why I ask for a release, why I should want to withdraw from the Presidency of the Utah Stake Relief Society when, as they say, all departments of ward and stake activity are moving along satisfactorily. I had two reasons: first, because for more than a year past I have felt that the heavy responsibilities of my position were producing a physical and mental strain beyond my power of endurance. Second, and most important of all, is my high appreciation of the Relief Society cause in Zion. It needs the very best attention, especially in these days of stress, commotion and change. There is no place for a slacker or for slacking. Every woman who has a proper estimate of our organization will lend to it her best efforts outside her own home. I am thoroughly converted to the divine mission of the Relief Society. It will succeed just as truly as this latter-day gospel will succeed. Membership in the organization should be considered a most sacred privilege by every woman in Zion. It has been my pride and ambition, during the years I have served, to watch it grow and to help it along to the extent of my ability. We have many excellent, trained women in our stake possessed of faith and enthusiasm, eager to do good, and withal fully qualified for responsibility. There will be no jar, no halt, no wavering, but the work will go steadily on. It would break my heart if I thought for a moment that I should be deprived of doing my bit and earning my standing in this the greatest organization for women in the world." There is a time to labor and a time to quit. How few of us laborers know when the right time comes to quit.