[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A Utah War Romance]

A Utah War Romance. Our brave and brilliant Utah girl, Miss Betty McCune, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McCune, has bowed to the inevitable inpermittingCupid to fold hands with Mars across the seas. Her distinguished young husband has been a devoted admirer of Miss Betty since she wore her hair in pig-tail braids and dashed about the sleepy streets of Lima, Peru, in her twelveyear old girlish pinafores; only her mother called them aprons in the good okl American tongue. But Betty could not see the solia values of dignity and birth in her gay, glittering early girlhood days. And so the years flew by, alternating seasons for Betty between Peru, New York and occasional visits to her home in Utah. For there came many suitors for her hand, attracted as they were by her absolute truth, sincerity and high-minded integrity. Among and these was an Episcopal Bishop's son who was both young handsome. Then came tiie war  who may spell that word aright? And the young Englishman at once left Peru for Europe and enlisted. He rose from rank to rank, his reckless courage resulting in three almost fatal wounds, while he has already been decorated with five crosses for his bravery, being one of the fifty English officials thus heavily decorated in the long course of this awful carnage. own When auto in Miss FranceBetty accepted for relief her work trench country's call to she last winter, drive her found, on arriving in Paris, that her old friend Major Trower had learned of her coming and was there to greet her both sadly and gladly. What would you? Life, war, love and such gripping romance as pales all imaginary fiction met in Paris, and soon  the natural and righteous sequence  Miss Betty McCune became Mrs. Rex Trower. Her own pathetic account of the affair just received from over-seas by her sister is both vivid and touching: "Life is queer, but love is queerer. If anyone had told me six months ago that I would marry Rex I would have had them locked up in an insane asylum. Now I am so frightfully in love v/ith him, I don't know what to do. I am just afraid God will take him away to punish me for the way I have flirted with other men. Pray for me. Jack. My wedding was so sad and lonely. No one there but the witnesses. My wedding dress was my blue serge suit, I got last year in New York  remember it? Rex wasn't allowed to leave Paris so we just went to another hotel. He stayed a week and then had to go back to the front. You can imagine how I felt. MAJOR AND MRS. REX TROWER. MAJOR RICHARD. G. TROWER IN THE TRENCHES. 
 "I received a sweet cable from mother last night and one from Ray this morning^. It made me so happy. I just cried and cried. It has made me feel so much better. ' "Our announcement would have read, Major R. G. Trower, D. S. O.-M. C. of His Majesty's Royal Engineers, which would have meant much here, but would have meant nothing to the people' in the states, I guess. "x\n officer Rex sent down to take me around introduced me to the Baroness de Rothsch'kl. She has been simply wonderful to me  just loads me with presents, beautiful flowers, beaded bags, candy, lace collars, a pretty diamond and sapphire ring, an old turqu6ise bracelet and opera seats three or four times a week. To go to.see her is like going back for a generation. She is eighty or more, has never been out of her home in twenty years, lives in Balyacs Place, a huge palace in a dark right in the heart of Paris. You go in first to a little lodgegate, then they let you pass and the doors of the house open as if by magic, then up a huge staircase past millions of powdered footmen in through fifty big salons with footmen at each door, then you are in her small.drawing room (which is about the size of the Hotel Utah). Thousands of footmen fix your chair, footstool and cushions, then she appears. White hair done exactly like Marie Antonette and in stiff, full-flowered silks with pearls and diamonds the size of eggs all over her. And she is the sweetest, most lovable old soul in the world, and-so simple. Her husband died just two years after they were married. "We had a really truly air raid the other night. Killed and wounded such a lot of people and did a great deal more of damage than the papers gave out. I was so thrilled. First they sounded the warning and about fifty or sixty French planes went up. Then the anti-air guns started all around Paris and the Germans started dropping their bombs. They landed them in every part of Paris. One came just a few blocks from us. You can tell them from the guns easily. They make a sound like a huge crash of thunder with a bright red flare. We saw one plane fall. It was such a wonderful sight  all aflame  looked like a huge sky German or rocket going the wrong machine. way. hear You could Don'ttheknow if it was Germans quitea plainly, French their engine makes an entirely different.sound from the French. Nerve these devils have  ^the vile beasts. We saw a French plane where it had fallen, the morning after  just smashed to bits. "John Groesbeck came in the other evening. He is so thin. Has to work like a Trojan. When I told him I was married he said, "Good for you, Betty." "My Auto is still on her weary way up from Bordeaux. A UTAH WAR ROMANCE. 207 Heaven only knows when it will arrive. Maybe I will have better luck now. I am married  need it certainly. If I could only get to-Theworkthousands I wouldn'tof feel so blue." friends of our General Board member, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune and the admirers of this handsome, plucky daughter of hers, join in congratulations to the young  couple, while we join in earnest prayers for the safety of her young and gallant hero-husband. May they win out in war as they have in love  and finally win out in life itself here and hereafter. TO MY FOUR LITTLE GIRLS From Mothe. By Mrs. S. M. Woolf. Four little girls, yet much that means, Or counted for good or ill; Four little girls make sunshine gleam Or life with sadness fill. Four little girls must do their part, And though the days be hard, Smilingly keep up brave hearts, Asking aid of our dear Lord. Mother may not always guide: More need then to be strong. Trust dear Father, in him confide, 'Twill keep you from going wrong. Bodies are temples, God's sacred gift. Beware how you guard them here. For each abuse the debt you must lift, And the charges are vitally dear. If I could only save you from sin,How gladly life would be given. O God, keep all four pure within, That we may all meet in heaven. These lines were written by Mrs. Harriet Stoddard Woolf, wife of Bishop S. M. Woolf, of Metropolis, Nevada. She was the daughter of Marion L. and Harriet C. Stoddard, and was born at Farmington, Utah, July 13, 1888. After her active girlhood and marriage she contracted tuberculosis, and although everything possible was done for her she died one year ago, leaving four little girls. Just before her death. May 31, 1917, she wrote the foregoing lines.