[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 99 | Fiction | Happy Anniversary! | Rosemary Addis]
Happy Anniversary! Rosemary Addis Sheffield, England w The loud clamour of the alarm clock brought Janet to abrupt wakefulness from her deep sleep. David's arm extricated itself from under the warmth of the bed clothes and reached up to Switch off the alarm. The luminous hands of the clock pointed to five minutes past six. Another few minutes and he would heave himself reluctantly out of bed and prepare for the day's work ahead. David preferred to get up on quick breakfast, and see himself off to work. "I can get off much quicker without you," he had told Janet right from the start. "You only slow me up." Janet had not argued with him, she was quite content to remain in bed a little longer. In her estimation seven o'clock was quite early enough to rise, and it gave her half an hour to herself before calling Eric, their son, who at this moment was asleep in the next room. Usually, first thing in the morning, Janet was slow to come his own, have a € to. She was a very sound sleeper. When, in the transition from sleep to wakefulness she gave David silly answers in reply to anything he Said, he would chuckle and say, half in exasperation, "That's my girl." But this morning her mind was alert, and immediately the thought was there—this is our anniversary, our twentieth anniversary. Will he remember? Shall] I whisper to him "Happy anniversary, darling?" No! She decided. I'll see if he remembers. As the minutes ticked away it was obvious David did not remember. A brief hug, a kiss, and a "See you tonight" and she heard him running down the stairs. Janet lay still, a little wave of hurt and disappointment Sweeping over her. Perhaps there would be a card or a little something on the table to show that he had remembered. At this thought her spirits lifted, and as soon as she heard the front door close after David, she slipped out of bed, wrapped herself in her dressing 99 "eT ON February 1970 gown, and hurried downstairs to the kitchen. A quick glance at the table brought to her vision a bottle of milk, a packet of cornflakes, and some dirty dishes and cutlery. Janet sat down despondently. One would have thought that after all these years she would have hardened herself to this forgetfulness on David's part to remember anniversaries and birthdays but, somehow, she still felt the hurt. She cast her mind back to the early years of their marriage. Eric had been born during the war years while David was still doing active service abroad. He had just had his first birthday when his daddy was finally demobbed from the army. She hadn't been upset at the lack of anniversary remembrances during those first years, she had been only too thankful to receive the fairly regular blue penciled letters from him. It was later on when they were settling down to home life together that she began to feel hurt by his seeming lack of sentiment on what, to her, were important days, days to be remembered and cherished. On one occasion she had sulked for two or three days, hardly speaking to him, and it didn't help any when her friends showed her the gifts they had received from their husbands, and when she heard them talking about the wonderful plans that had been made for a celebration evening. As time went on, however, Janet began to realize that forgetfulness was a part of her husband's make-up. She realized, too, by the expression on David's face 100 and his contrite spirit, that she was not the only one to feel hurt because he had not remembered a special day. So it became her practise to remind him a few days beforehand, but even that didn't always work. She had not reminded him of this day, nor had she said anything to Eric either. Eric! It was time he was up and getting ready to go to technical college. Janet went to the bottom of the stairs and called up to her son. She knew from experience this would be the first of several] calls. Like herself, he was slow to rouse himself. Eventually she heard the water running in the bathroom and she began to prepare his breakfast. It wasn't long before Eric made his appearance —a tall, rangy young man, dark hair still tousled. Never very talkative first thing in the morning, Eric answered her questions in a series of grunts, but before he left the house, she gathered that he was bringing Rachel, his girl, home with him that evening. Janet was pleased. She liked Rachel, a sweet-natured girl who showed great strength of character at times. She knew that Eric and Rachel would eventually marry, they had been going steady for six months now, and Rachel was quite prepared to wait until Eric had finished at college. As Janet went about her work, her mind became occupied once more with this anniversary day. Twenty years! Why, it was a milestone in their lives. She couldn't let it pass unnoticed. Twenty years of loving companionship, trust, the sharing of so many happy times together, the three of them. What if David did forget anniversaries, what about all the other little thoughtful acts he did at other times, the unexpected flowers and chocolates? It suddenly occurred to Janet that she herself had made no plans to make this day a special day. She had been waiting for David to do it all. This thought came as a revelation to her, and lifted the last mists of hurt and resentment. She planned her day. First, the room extra shining and bright. Then the menu. Both her men loved mixed grill, so that was a must. She would have orange meringue pie to follow. A cake —she must make an extra nice cake, but it wouldn't have to be too complicated, there wasn't time. She remembered the cake recipes in the drawer. David was always tearing cake recipes that looked extra luscious out of her weekly woman's magazine in the hope that she would take the hint and bake him one. Now was the time. She chose a large chocolate cake sandwiched with cream and smothered in cherries. She had never tried a combination of chocolate and cherries before. Janet was thankful for the little reserve of money she had been diligently trying to save these past weeks. Now she could make a little splash in her purchases. Once she had the cake in the oven, Janet set about moving the one and only table from the kitchen into the dining room. No eating in the kitchen tonight. Moving the table from the kitchen, through the narrow hall into the dining room, was really a two-man job, but she set to with great determination and, after Happy Anniversary much _ puffing achieved her goal. She fetched her best white linen cloth and spread it on the table. Carefully she set out her new china set and the cutlery. From the garden she plucked a gay assortment of the flowers in bloom and made an attractive arrangement of them which she placed in the center of the table. As Janet stood back to survey the effect, the colour and beauty of the flowers filled her with a sense of joy, and a silent prayer of thankfulness went up to the one who was Creator of such perfection. The despondency of the early morning seemed as if it had never been, and in its place was a happy mood of anticipation. Oh! She must not forget the bottle of Peardrax, a favorite fruit drink for all of them. They would be able to use it for a toast to the happy occasion. The hands of the clock seemed to be flying around. The cake had been given its final touches and was beautiful to behold. She hoped. Fervently it would taste as good as it looked. She seemed to have so many baking catastrophes when it came to trying something new. The orange meringue pie had turned out just as she had hoped it would and looked tempting. Now for the main course. When all was near completion Janet went upstairs and washed, and changed into the pretty soft green dress which she knew David liked her in best of all, and by the time she had put some fresh make-up on, she felt lke a new woman. As she made her way downand panting,