[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 98 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

She has been State Department correspondent for United States News; an important freelance writer; news commentator; and United Nations correspondent for both American Broadcasting Corporation and National Broadcasting Company. She has_ received special citations for United Nations coverage, also a '''Golden Mike"' award as outstanding American woman in radio and television, besides a George Foster Peabody award for her contribution to international understanding. Mrs. Julia Marr Robinson, thirty-four, has become the press coordinator for the press staff of America's First Lady, Mrs. Richard M. Nixon. She has been a reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle, and society editor of the now defunct New York World Telegram and Sun. 98 Ramona W. Cannon Marian Buck-Lew is a brilliant ChineseAmerican pianist, who was born in HongKong, has lived in the United States since 1953, and is currently an assistant professor of music at the University of lowa. In 1969 she toured the United States with marked success as a concert pianist. Betty Crocker, sometimes called ''America's First Lady of Foods,'' appeared for fifteen years on radio and television programs as our. National symbol of the perfect housewife. Her face on packaged-food boxtops was familiar to millions. Now, after earning her Ph. D. Degree at New York University, she has reverted to her former profession, teaching school—at the University of Victoria in Canada. Her subject is not home economics, but speech. Her real name is Mrs. Adelaide Hawley; she is mother of one daughter and grandmother of two children. More than fifteen million women over the age of forty-five, most of them married, are employed full time in America. American working women earn ninety billion dollars a year. At the last Labor Department count, one-third of all mothers with children under eighteen were working mothers. Present-day statistics report that seventy-eight to eighty per cent of women with a college education are employed. Only nine per cent of the doctors in the United States are women, as compared to sixty-five per cent in Russia and twentyfour per cent in Great Britain.