[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 96 | General Feature | Editorial— On Contemplation | Louise W. Madsen]
[Editorial— On Contemplation Louise W. Madsen]

95 EDITORIAL / On Contemplation m= Did you ever stop to think that every book written, every picture painted, every building erected, every play enacted, every car driven was conceived mentally and had its beginning with ideas inside someone's mind? Someone deliberately thought and thought until ideas became realities, a whole procession of ideas became workable inventions, artistic expressions, articulate expositions. Did you ever stop to think that only those who stop to think make progress equal to their capabilities? Do you ever stop to think? Do you ever meditate, summon from your heart and mind the things that need your most considered judgment? Do you see in meditation an opportunity to renew yourself, to build your self-confidence; to revitalize and gather new strength, not dwelling upon weaknesses or failures but upon better ways to accomplish tasks; to refresh with greater determination; to reflect upon events of your life that were pure joy; and to create constructive attitudes and enthusiasm? Do you take time to contemplate, to bring your mental powers and resources to work out your problems, to form your judgments? When decisions must be reached do you pause to map your course, to I think through to a conclusion the probable consequences of a contemplated action? Your head should be allowed to guide your feet to keep you from an impulsive action which could be a disaster. Thought-: ful consideration may save many mistakes. Contemplation is not idle- ) ness though it requires a certain stillness and freedom from physical activity. Contemplation does not squander time but makes time more valuable. — 

, SecretaryTreasurer i iii 96 € need for your Childre e real thinking, some daydrea ° regiment their hours that thes denied them? Clear your mind of ©arth-bound things to leave it Open to INspiration? You are Entitled to INSpiration from the Ord in your affairs jf 8h your faith he May reach Your sou}. Con. Ne busin Sma this blessing S when yoy are alone, Silent, yet quent, as the ming ught and idea UPON ideg until erges, €comes a answer to 3 Solution, toadj; Ora Pattern;¢ Ollow. Thoughts Can b light, Nappy-hearted ] Chings of One's s Thought aN be qu com if the Mind w ] ne pr Saic, UNINSpirin e Pressing if yo Cughts can bui N to have Privacy to InMing, some IMagining Or © delightfy; Momen Panions § thing to Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp Verda F Burton Amy y Valentine Aleine M. Young elestia 5. Taylor yrtle R Olson Marian R Oyer Alberta H. Ch IStense lva B. Ashton lice Cs ith Orlene J. Poulsen innietreq S) anwaring oO J. Cannon Lucile Pp Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve ary R. Youn Lila B Walch Elaine B. Curtis da J Jones anny S fenitz Lenore C. Gundersen Zelma R. West Helen E. Lach Elizabeth Winters Marjorie C. Ingree €anor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Jennie R cott Darlene Cc €deking eba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K atson Luella W. Finlinson everly J 'ond Irene W. Ehner Ellen arnes Orma B. Hton Inez T Waldron Hazel s Lov Kathryn S Gilbert aurine M aycock Anna Jean B Skidmore 97 Dame Sybil Hathaway, eighty-five, has abdicated from the rule of her hereditary fiefdom, Sark, a Channel Island three miles long and one mile wide, with 556 residents. Her family has ruled Sark since the sixteenth century under a charter from the English Crown. Sark has no hospital, no police, no divorces, depending upon her neighboring larger Channel Island of Guernsey when in need. Forty thousand tourists a year visit this interesting community. Dame Sybil, angered because her subjects refused to obey the liquor-control laws, turned over her fiefdom to Guernsey. Pauline Frederick, born in Gallitzin, Pennsylvania, did outstandingly well in her television reporting of the Apollo Eleven astronauts' moon landing. She has reached a very high peak for a woman in communications. She has been State Department correspondent for United States News; an important freelance writer; news commentator; and United Nations correspondent for both American Broadcasting Corporation and National Broadcasting Company. She has_ received special citations for United Nations coverage, also a '''Golden Mike"' award as outstanding American woman in radio and television, besides a George Foster Peabody award for her contribution to international understanding. Mrs. Julia Marr Robinson, thirty-four, has become the press coordinator for the press staff of America's First Lady, Mrs. Richard M. Nixon. She has been a reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle, and society editor of the now defunct New York World Telegram and Sun. 98 Ramona W. Cannon Marian Buck-Lew is a brilliant ChineseAmerican pianist, who was born in HongKong, has lived in the United States since 1953, and is currently an assistant professor of music at the University of lowa. In 1969 she toured the United States with marked success as a concert pianist. Betty Crocker, sometimes called ''America's First Lady of Foods,'' appeared for fifteen years on radio and television programs as our. National symbol of the perfect housewife. Her face on packaged-food boxtops was familiar to millions. Now, after earning her Ph. D. Degree at New York University, she has reverted to her former profession, teaching school—at the University of Victoria in Canada. Her subject is not home economics, but speech. Her real name is Mrs. Adelaide Hawley; she is mother of one daughter and grandmother of two children. More than fifteen million women over the age of forty-five, most of them married, are employed full time in America. American working women earn ninety billion dollars a year. At the last Labor Department count, one-third of all mothers with children under eighteen were working mothers. Present-day statistics report that seventy-eight to eighty per cent of women with a college education are employed. Only nine per cent of the doctors in the United States are women, as compared to sixty-five per cent in Russia and twentyfour per cent in Great Britain.