[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 154 | General Feature | Cultural Refinement-The Thrill and Reward of Participation Robert | K. Thomas]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 7—The Thrill and Reward of Participation Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Seven By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas 'Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action." —Benjamin Disraeli Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1970. Southern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that no view from without can match the insight, growth, and accomplishment of involvement. MUSIC "Fourth Tableau" from the ballet Petrushka by Igor Stravinsky (1882. ) American (Russian-born) Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. When a person is asked to "participate in a piece of music," too often he thinks he is to take up violin and bow, to limber up his pianistic fingers, to clear his throat with a few "'a-hems" to be ready to make music with others. Actually, whenever a this cogent definition: "By the 'listener,' I do not mean the person who simply hears INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE Lesson that people today _ are bigger, stronger, and healthier than their Despite reassuring statistics forebears, many have the dis- 154 quieting feeling that individuals have never counted for less. Overwhelmed by a technology which makes the individual seem slow and awkward and conditioned by the evidence of human folly with which the mass communications media engulfs him, modern man may have a difficult time remembering that he is in the image of God and has an infinite potential. Increased specialization at work may focus his attention on the part so completely that he loses awareness of the whole. Bombarded by advertisements which proclaim the necessity to remain youthful, he faces his advancing years with trepidation. In sum, his personal contribution may appear to be so insignificant that it does not seem worthwhile to participate at all. "THE OVEN BIRD" To such an individual Robert Frost's "The Oven Bird" has a realistic message. The final line of the poem "... What to make of a diminished thing" suggests that we prepare for the diminution we must all face. This is most obvious when our physical powers begin to fail but is probably even more disquieting when we begin to have trouble remembering or find it taxing to follow complicated directions. The seasons do follow one another, and with changing circumstance there is loss. Yet, however "diminished" our powers or our situation, there is still opportunity. Not only is ability to adapt one of the most valid tests of intelligence, it is also a clear indication of what we have Lesson Department learned. It is depressing to meet a person who, supposedly, has had ten years' experience in a position only to find out that he really has had one year's experience repeated ten times. It is worthy of note that Frost's symbolic bird has an insistent, almost unexpected, song as though he first had to convince himself. He is not ''as other birds." His is not a conventional, graceful melody that might suggest acceptance. Perhaps the key to this poem is the word "make" in the last line. If we wait for opportunity to knock, we may be making unrealistic assumptions about our hearing, but if we take what we have, look at it freshly, and are determined to make something exciting out of it, we _cannot fail. Question for Discussion In Frost's '"The Oven Bird" why are the echoes of the Biblical "fall'' so appropriate? "LIFE"' George Herbert's "Life" has a similar message, but it adds an explicit religious dimension: I made a posy, while the day ran by: Here will I smell my remnant out, and tie My life within this band. But Time did beckon to the flowers, and they By noon most cunningly did steal away, And withered in my hand. My hand was next to them, and then my heart: I took, without more thinking, in good part Time's gentle admonition: Who did so sweetly death's sad taste convey, Making my mind to smell my fatal day; Yet sugaring the suspicion. 

155 February 1970

 Farewell dear flowers, sweetly your time ye spent, Fit, while ye lived, for smell or ornament, And after death for cures. I follow straight without complaints or grief, Since if my scent be good, I care not if It be as short as yours. Herbert's use of a bouquet of flowers to symbolize his days is an attractive one and, considering his blameless life, appropriate. Yet by "noon," or middle age, they have already started to wilt. In reflecting on this, he is grateful that he has been reminded of his mortality so gently. The scent of lovely flowers may fade, but if they were fragrant and beautiful while they were fresh and can be turned into healing medicine after they have been dried, Herbert is content to accept them as an image of what he would like his own life to be. Herbert's poetry shows the influence of John Donne but his verses are more artistically constructed than Donne's. Herbert's work lacks the fire that we associate with much religious poetry, but he lets us see the appealing serenity which a mind and life in accord with Christian principles can produce. Question for Discussion What is Herbert probably suggesting when, in the last stanza of his poem, he says he will "follow straight" the example set by flowers? "KEEPING MENTALLY ALIVE" BY HARRY ALLEN OVERSTREET "Keeping Mentally Alive" has a style to match its message. The opening dialogue is almost breezy but it sets the tone for what Overstreet has to say. We tend to 156 identify with the dramatic elements of any dialogue; it is hard not to feel at least partially involved when there is a conversation going on in your presence, and Overstreet hopes to continue a mood of informal discussion after the actual dialogue is over. What is called "mental fixity" in this article is essentially an attitude. For example, if we have a negative, pre-determined concept of what a visiting teacher does, we may be reluctant to accept an assignment that we have defined as insignificant. If, however, we bring our freshest and most creative thinking to the calling of a visiting teacher, we will catch the spirit of this uniquely sisterly opportunity. In such receptivity, we will keep within the general guidelines of our call while infusing it with imagination, and we will find it thrilling. Question for Discussion Although Overstreet. Seems to emphasize accepting the new, how can we remain "mentally alive" in considering that which is old? FROM "GREAT POSSESSIONS" BY DAVID GRAYSON "David Grayson" was the pen name of Ray Stannard Baker (1870-1946). His talents were many. As a journalist he gained the reputation of being America's foremost reporter. As a writer for the periodicals of his day, he contributed over two hundred articles to leading magazines, including one on "The Vitality of Mormonism" for Century Magazine during 1904. As champion of Woodrow Wilson, he won a Pulitzer Prize for his eight-volume work, Woodrow Wilson: Life and Letters. In a very real sense, Baker, the journalist and public servant, turned into "David Grayson," the appreciator of life. The excerpt from Great Possessions, which we have included in our text, is typical of "Grayson" apreciation, for he stressed simplicity, sensitivity, and involvement. Where earlier selections have emphasized participation that reflected adaptability, living fully, and mental vitality, these lines stress one's relationship to his immediate environment. Horace is a captive of his farm.

His interests and concerns are bounded by it in the most obvious sense. David cannot resist pointing out that so limited a vision is not even totally successful in mateLesson Department New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-.55 Zone5 ___.-.75 Zone3 _____.60 Zone6 ___...85 Zone4 _____.65 Zone7 __-_- -.95 Zone8__ _ _ - 1.05 Po = DESERET —REws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 AROUND THE WORLD with W. Cleon Skousen London India, eHong Kong e Holy Land Japan Expo e Cairo e May 25 Departure OTHER TOURS FOR '70 EUROPE e SOUTH AMERICA e CARIBBEAN e e SOUTH PACIFIC DOMESTIC SCANDINAVIAN HAWAII MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah 328-3161 Gentlemen: [1] Please send me_ the brochure on your Round the World Tour (] Send me your brochure on your MURDOCK TRAVEL Tour for 1970 

157 February 1970

 rial terms, for he has received more for writing an article about Horace's field than Horace has from the hay he has harvested there. Perhaps the most memorable point in this selection is Baker's contention that one can be both practical and aesthetically sensitive. Both mind and body thrive when they are brought into a full, complementary relationship. Question for Discussion How might Grayson in_ Great Possessions have interested Horace in values which are not explicitly material? "STOPPING BY WOODS ON A SNOWY EVENING" BY ROBERT FROST "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" may now be among the best. Known poems ever written in America. It is appealing to both the critics and the public at large; to both children and adults. It tells of a driver and his horse stopping in I the woods during an evening snowfall. Distracted by the "dark and deep" loveliness of the scene, the driver would linger for a moment to "watch the woods fill up with snow"; but the little horse, in his impatience to be on his way, "gives his harness bells a shake" and the driver is reminded of promises he must keep and that there are still "miles to go" before he can sleep. Among the meanings this short lyric suggests is that it costs effort to become a responsible person—there is a pull that would take us from the "promises" we have made and the moral commitment that keeps us involved in what we know we should do. This 158 its fun to travel with FALDMO TOURS Yellowstone Snowmobile Tours Weekend Tour—Feb. 6-8 Washington's Birthday—Feb. 20-23 Death Valley Easter Tour March 27 to 30 Includes Lehman Caves & Las Vegas Hawaiian Tour April 20—May 5 Deluxe Lei Day Hawaiian Tour Sessions at L. A., Hawaiian, and Oakland Temples $539.00 Apr. 20—17 days Nov. 7—17 days Write or phone for itineraries FALDMO TOURS-— 295 7526 68 South 600 East Bountiful, Utah 84010 "Ep NST MUSIC. Ae 'Singing Mothers'"' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 poem suggests that ability to make moral decisions lS a distinctive characteristic of humankind. Question for Discussion The rhyme scheme of "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" is very precise (AABA, BBCB, CCDC, DDED). Why is this appropriate to the message of this poem? "THE CANTERBURY PILGRIMS" Our final selection, Hawthorne's "The Canterbury Pilgrims" presents us with several characters who have not found their participation in life to be very rewarding. The artist has been blocked from meaningful involvement with others by his own ego; the ruined financier has stumbled over things; the older couple have let themselves become victimized by circumstance. Sadly, not one of them is prepared to change. The young Shaker couple, still on the threshold of worldly experience, must face the fact that their lives and their marriage may prove as unsatisfying as those that they have just heard recounted. Yet they move out into the world with sober confidence. Failure may be a real possibility, but refusal to act ls to deny all chance of success Or happiness. Question for Discussion Why might the young Shaker couple in "The Canterbury Pilgrims" be successful when the others, to whom they listened, have failed? Lesson Department