[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 132 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field— Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities ae & mR; a ~ Raion \ ae-unes — 2 "Sy & uf ¥~ oe % § ) ~ WOME 6 5: lo _ a. ~ ¥ * @ e '7 oa a i. Ey &é é 4 =. Taess * mt there iy pre fetenta nergy, A: a ay. Ay a Lo." oN tas 4 "a ~ "4 ~~. A + D2 q a "lg f. " e; Oklahoma Stake Relief Society Provides Home Nursing Instructor's Course July 28-31, 1969 Posing as a patient: Margaret Anderson, Education Counselor, Oklahoma Stake Relief Society. In back, left to right: Virginia Gillespie, Homemaking Counselor; Regina Brinkerhoff, President, Oklahoma Stake Relief Society; Shirley Hunter, Red Cross Nursing Instructor. _ Sister Brinkerhoff reports: ''Our stake covers a very large portion of land, making it very difficult for the sisters to meet together. In order that more sisters might be able to have home nursing instruction we sponsored an instructor's course with the help of the Red Cross. "Twenty-three sisters were given certificates at the end of the course. During the time the course was offered, the sisters were given banquets, tours, films, and a talk from the stake president. On the final evening, a testimony meeting was held. ''Lovely floral arrangements made by members of the stake board were presented to the nursing instructors. We feel that this program will be of great benefit to the families in our stake.'' _ 132 Notes From the Field Cedar Rapids Stake "God Gave This represents Sj ties. (lowa) Singin Land to Me,' nging Mothers from & Mothers Present " June 6-7, 1969 First Picture Ward Relief Socie ree more branches have been added since this Clinton, Dubuque. 

133 February 1970

 Helena Stake (Montana), Helena Second Ward Honors Former President, August 13, 1969 Left to right: Lois Faw, quilting chairman, Helena Second Ward Relief Society; Lucile Rossiter; Lois Thomas, President; Dorothy Cory, homemaking counselor. Camille Neuffer, President, Helena Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Second Ward of our stake honored a sister who was moving away after many long years of service to Relief Society as ward president, stake board member, organist, and visiting teacher. Lucile Rossiter was presented with a lovely quilt with a grand piano in the center and a border of music notes with a floral and diamond design. This quilt was designed by Lois Faw, assisted by Dorothy Cory. A musical program was also presented to honor Sister Rossiter. St. Johns Stake (Arizona), Eagar Ward Holds Successful Bazaar, August 15, 1969 Left to right: Ann Udall and Beverly Johnson who were in charge of display. Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Eagar Ward in our stake held what we felt was a most successful bazaar. The sisters, under the direction of Donna Hamblin, Homemaking Counselor, and Ruby Rogers, homemaking leader, were busy throughout the summer in preparation for this bazaar. "One of the outstanding departments, we felt, was the Pillow Plaza featuring many kinds of decorative pillows, both for the youngsters, and for the beautifying of the home." Adelaide Stake (Australia) Honors 100% Visiting Teachers July 30, 1969 Visiting teachers who achieved over one-hundred per cent, left to right, front row: Thelma Medlen; Janet Fleming; Florence Crane; Roma Tredrea. Back row, left to right: Doris Schilg; Laurel Ellis; Edith Cameron; Margaret Dunbar. Thelma E. Hobby, President, Adelaide Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our stake is quite widespread, and it is a special occasion when the sisters meet cata at the stake house. Our visiting teacher convention was such an occasion. "The Singing Mothers and two soloists thrilled us with lovely music, a film was shown, our stake president addressed us, we enjoyed a_ luncheon and a play, and testimonies-were borne. All sisters who achieved 100 per cent as visiting teachers were honored. There were nine others than those pictured who also attained 100 per cent visiting teaching.'' yy ) ha ae: iv a i Z ' 4 at d February 1970 Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society, Santa Ana (El Salvador) District Presents Bazaar, December 18, 1968 In group picture at left: Seated, second and third from left: Blanca Rosa de Hernandez, Secretary, El Modelo Branch Relief Society; Celcilia de Zepeda, President. Seated in center row, second through sixth: Lucila Martinez, Counselor, El Jardin Branch Relief Society; Andréa T. De Navas, Secretary, Barrio Nuevo Branch Relief Society; Elena de Gonzales, President; Liliana de Diaz, Secretary, El Centro Branch Relief Society; Francisca de Valencia, President. Standing, second, fifth, sixth, and tenth from left: Margarita Salguero, Secretary, Sonsonate Branch Relief Society; Victoria E. De Olmedo, President, El Molino Branch; Isabel de Garcia, President, Santa Ana District; Rosa de Regalado, President, Chalchuapa Branch. Four sisters in picture at right: Ana Moran de Marroquin, First Counselor, El Centro Branch Relief Society; Isolina Marroquin, Second Counselor; Francisco de Valencia, President; Liliana de Diaz, Secretary. Bonnie C. Clark, Supervisor, Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society, reports: 'The Santa Ana District of the mission presented a very successful bazaar. The seven branches met and presented their handwork which they had made in classes throughout the year. It was a very enjoyable day, climaxed by a dinner for all of the sisters.'' a Lake Mead Stake (Nevada), Henderson Fifth Ward Aids Building Fund By Baking Bread Left to right: Genevieve Smith, Second Counselor, Henderson Fifth Ward Relief Society; Myrna Olds; Angela Dillard; Ileene Robinson, First Counselor; Grace Wingett, President; Dolores Pendleton. Mary R. Edwards, President, Lake Mead Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Society sisters of the Henderson Fifth Ward have raised an amazing amount of money for the ward building fund by baking and selling bread. One day was spent in Relief Society teaching those sisters who did not know how to bake bread. It has been a most impressive and successful method to aid in building a new chapel." Taber Stake Relief Society Holds Visiting Teacher Convention August 16, 1969 Standing at left: Ida Wood, who was honored as the oldest active visiting teacher and crowned queen for the day. Remaining sisters are visiting teachers over seventy years of age. Hazel N. Tanner, President, Taber Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme for our visiting teacher convention was 'Love One Another.' It was emphasized by the presentation of a play, 'Which Pattern Do You Follow?' and a skit, 'If the Shoe Fits.' ''A lovely luncheon was served to approximately 200 sisters, and the eldest visiting teachers were honored. The Vauxhall Branch received a copy of History of Relief Society for having the highest percentage of attendance at the convention. Booklets of original poems composed by the sisters of the Taber Stake were given to all present. We feel that it was a highly successful event, and enjoyable to the sisters.'' 136 TSS SS - February 1970 Burley Stake (Idaho) Presents ''My Sister's Keeper'' At Presidencies Breakfast, September 17, 1969 Left to right: Pearl Lee; Jacqueline Sagers; Janine Taylor; Edith Blacker. Mary G. Bateman, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Stake board members presented the dramatization 'My Sister's Keeper' at the annual Presidencies Breakfast. Narrating the program was Deaun Wood. "The breakfast tables were decorated in blue and gold, featuring fall bouquets centered with gold hearts and draped with blue streamers proclaiming the year's overall theme in our stake—'Compassionate Service—The Heart of Relief Society.' "The sisters greatly enjoyed and were inspired by the dramatization. Jacqueline Sagers, cultural refinement leader, was chairman for the event.''