Finest Career of All Pauline M. Henderson 66 H, I'm just a housewife." I was listening to a radio program the other day, and heard a woman make this reply to a question concerning her occupation. 'The words were accompanied by an apologetic little laugh, as though the speaker were a bit ashamed of her calling. I thought, suddenly, how often I had heard those same words! Why! I had said the same thing myself, many times—and in that same self-deprecatory tone! Perhaps I was in an unusually introspective mood that morning, but the incident started me thinking. Why, I wondered, should we—the homemakers of the world—be ashamed of this most rewarding of all positions in life? I have heard complaints from many women, that simply being a housewife does not provide a woman with sufficient opportunity for self-expression, or a large enough scope in which to develop her talents to the fullest extent. Indeed, I have, on occasion, added my voice to this lament. We are prone to look upon our work as drudgery, and to dwell enviously upon the lives of our sisters who have made careers for themselves in the business and professional world. But, after giving the matter some serious thought, I, for one, have revised my opinion. The dictionary defines "career" as "a profession or other calling demanding special preparation and undertaken as a life's work." It Page 110 seems to me that homemaking lives up to this definition very well. A successful wife and mother combines many skills and talents in the fulfillment of her role in life, any one of which, if followed exclusively, would command a good salary and a fair amount of respect in the world of business. She is a nutritionist, having a working knowledge of all the various food elements necessary to the health of her family, and she knows how to skillfully combine them to make appetizing meals, three times a day, every day in the year. Starting with four walls, some furniture, and other inanimate objects, she becomes an interior decorator, as she creates a home that is a haven of peace and rest for those she loves. Should one of her family become ill, she is a nurse—so far as possible making up in loving care what she may lack in professional skill. As she manipulates the family finances, she becomes an economist of no mean ability, stretching the budget to cover all her family's present needs, as well as providing a reserve for the future. The mother of a family is also a teacher, as she helps her children through their school years, adding much to their education that they cannot learn from formal instruction. And, in addition to all of this, the homemaker performs what is her most important function—that of spiritual counselor. To her, God firmly attached and mittens.