[Vol23 | August 1936 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]

Notes to the Field Enthusiastic Leadership N excellent example of what efficient and _ enthusiastic leadership can do in Relief Society work is related by a member of the General Board after a visit to one of the Stakes.
There were two Wards where conditions governing the people were practically identical.
Farming and care of the fruit crops offered absorbing occupation for all. In one, the Relief Society Ward President remarked, "The women are too busy, we cannot ask them to come to meetings and carry on to the end of the outlined work. The attendance at the last meetings will decrease until the average for the whole year will be greatly lowered. We are going to close the last of May." The members of the organization took their que from their President.
They were not expected to do anything, therefore they could not.
There were only two members present at the last meeting held more than two weeks in advance of the regular time for closing. In the other Ward the President said, "Our work is outlined for the year, every lesson has its distinct place in the course, we are asked to carry through to the end, and we can do it. Our sisters will feel better pleased to begin vacation if our work is well rounded out.'' The members felt the spirit of the President and responded splendidly. Out of the enrolled membership of thirty-five, thirtythree were in attendance at the last meeting of the season, June 23rd. The Social Service Lesson, "Health and Disease,' was most excellently presented. The members responded, and the whole matter was a fine preparation for the Summer vacation.  
THE GENERAL BOARD
Ethel Reynolds Smith C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford: President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Marcia K. Howells
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - -: -: ° - Manager 9 0 - -. Assistant Naneeer pe) Connelly Kimball Louise Robison Amy Brown Lyman VoL. XXUI AUGUST, 1936 No.