[Vol23 | August 1936 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Literature | Title: Literature - Alice Freeman Palmer]

LITERATURE
(For Third Week in October)
Lesson I

ALICE FREEMAN PALMER

Introduction
"Everybody reads biography today."
This sentence is taken from a magazine called "Modern Literature." In the late nineties the essay was pushed from the drawing-room table and the novel took its place. Now the novel has been pushed to one side and biography has threatened to take its place. In the best selling lists, biography and fiction run side by side. This change has come about because the processes of life have become so complex and the cry for leadership so insistent that stories of courage and notable achievement are demanded. This demand has been met in a measure by the writings of the modern biographer. Then, too, biography has adopted the technique of the novel; thereby greatly increasing its vogue and effectiveness.
As a result we have a stream of literary biography that has flowed on for many years, and is yet at high tide. To name a few who have achieved distinction in this field we call to mind Andre Maurois of France, Lytton Strachey of England, Emil Ludwig of Germany, Henrik William Van Loon of Holland, and Van Wyck Brooks of the United States.
It has been said on good authority that the test of highest merit in a prose writer is that he can lend interest to anything he writes. A drama that is not entertaining fails. So it is with the novel and the literary biography. They must be interesting. In this respect the literary biographers have generally succeeded. What they write is nearly always marked by great selective power. They do not use material that is dull and boring. Interest is maintained in many ways. Sometimes, as in the case of Rembrandt, the painter, it is brought about by presenting a personality whose very existence seems to disturb sufficiently to cause unexpected and alluring things to happen. Sometimes it results from narrating a life that can only be interpreted by carrying with it the whole sweep of the history of the time. Such is true of the life of Abraham Lincoln and other great pioneers. It is notably true in the case of both Joseph Smith and Brigham Young. Consequently it is reasonable to suppose that no adequate biography of King Albert of Belgium could be written without throwing further light on the World War. Added to the ability to select what is of interest comes the power to relate it in a concise and attractive manner, or to borrow the words of another, it must be recorded "with beauty of substance and beauty of form."
Many years ago Thomas Carlyle told us that "a well written life is as rare as a well lived one." It is safe to say that Carlyle would have great satisfaction in reading some of the modern biographies. A recent article on literary biographies, speaking of the method employed, tells us that the new biographer must become thoroughly at home in the world he is seeking to portray. To this end "he devours all the material on the subject; letters, diaries, deeds, official, records, histories of the period, other biographies, the files of old newspapers, and possibly he visits the scene of important events in the career of the subject of his biography."
"All of this material must be carefully weighed and sifted, for the sincere biographer, like the honest portrait painter, must tell the truth as he sees it. Blind hero-worship does not make a good biography, nor the attempt to belittle the hero through sensational gossip. The honest biographer avoids both these pitfalls in his quest for the real man.
"When the biographer has selected and absorbed his material, then he is ready to write his biography. He can picture for the reader the man he now feels he knows intimately. Sure of his material, he can write vividly and freely."
The new biography of Robert E. Lee which has drawn so much praise from critics meets the standards of a good biography. Its author, Douglas Southall Freeman, is described as "thorough, patient, honest, with a true gift of research. He was nineteen years preparing the biography. In his patient research for material he went to sources not before consulted in Lee biographies; manuscripts of old Southern families, Lee's unpublished military papers, the records of the Bureau of Engineers, and the United States Military Academy." Through his work we are told we may "glimpse the shining spirit of the man."
Gamaliel Bradford, who is described as one of the keenest and most renowned of American biographers, when asked to define biography said:
"Biography is not a cold, bare, remote study of strange creatures and impossible events. It is simply a study of human nature, of beings who lived and died and suffered and achieved, just like you and me. . . . Biography is the study of human beings, what they have been, what they are, what they may be, and above all, what they can do."

The Life of Alice Freeman Palmer
We are told we may "glimpse the shining spirit of the man" in the new biography of Robert E. Lee. That is precisely what George Herbert Palmer is seeking to have us do in the case of his gifted wife, Alice Freeman Palmer. His biography is a study of personality. Mr. Palmer tells us that at her death he received nearly 2,000 letters "from statesmen, school girls, clerks, lawyers, teachers, country wives, outcasts, millionaires, ministers, men of letters"—to him largely an unknown company, "but alike in feeling the marvel of her personality and the loss her death had caused them." President Tucker said, "There is no other of our generation, with the possible exception of Phillips Brooks, who has stood to such a degree for these qualities in which we must all believe with unquenchable faith, if we are to do anything in this world." And President Eliot added, "To my mind this career is unmatched by that of any other American woman. Mrs. Palmer's life and labors are the best example that so far set before American womanhood." Yet, we are told, "She lived no longer than most of us. She had no early advantage of birth, physical vigor, or station. Half her years were passed in comparative poverty. During only nine did she hold positions which could be called conspicuous. . . . Yet by personal power rather than by favoring circumstances this woman sent out an influence unique in kind and puzzling to those on whom it fell."
Alice Elvira Freeman was born February 21, 1855, at Colesville, Broom County, New York. She was grateful that she had been born in the country, and later, when she contacted "the great town's harsh heart-wearying roar" she renewed herself by lying in green grass or walking by the bank of a favorite brook in deep woods. She passed part of her life near the Susquehanna River. "When I went a thousand miles westward to college in 1872," says she, "I bore remembrances of our magnificent river, its enormous width, strong currents, and terrible freshets." Mr. Palmer is sure that the economic struggle of her early life had much to do with the development of Alice's mind and particularly with her fine attitude toward life. Both her maternal grandmother and her mother had been teachers. Her father farmed for some years, then suddenly made up his mind to study medecine. It is not entirely clear how the family got along in his absence, but they managed and later moved to Windsor, New York, where he became a country doctor. At Windsor, Alice showed a deep interest in her father's work, feeling keenly the suffering of the afflicted ones whom he served.
Her elementary education had been desultory. She had picked up what she could in the schools of her native village, but now in Windsor she was to attend an academy. Alice entered in September, 1865. Now her education really began. All through her life she acknowledged her indebtedness to the school and in 1901, a speaker at its semi-centennial celebration, she paid her mead of praise. When she was twelve, four schools of Broom County held a literary contest. Each school was to prepare a set of compositions. These were to be put in charge of a delegate for arrangements and for public reading. The other schools chose teachers as delegates; Windsor chose her. She carried off the prize on all three counts for arrangement, for reading, and for her own composition.
She was seventeen years of age when she left Windsor to attend college. She had concluded that the University of Michigan offered the best place for a woman to study. However, selecting a university was not her only trouble. Her father felt that he could not give all of his children a college education, and as his family consisted of three daughters and a son, the son should be the one to receive the training. Alice urged that if they would give her the opportunity she would in turn assist the other children. This promise she kept faithfully.
When she reached Ann Arbor she found that her training at Windsor had not been adequate. However, President James B. Angell, who had chatted with her, induced the faculty to try her for six weeks, for said he: "I was confident she would demonstrate her capacity to go on with her class. I need only add that it was soon apparent to her instructors that my confidence was fully justified."
In one of her letters written after her entrance into the University she says: "My special studies this semester are Juvenal's satires, Calculus, and Astronomy, with all of which I am delighted." Once during her college course word from home told her of financial disappointments, so she made up her mind to do a little