[Vol23 | August 1936 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business - Color in the Home]

WORK AND BUSINESS

A series of lessons for those who desire to use them on the second Tuesday of each month will be published in the Magazine. However, it is understood that these are to be used only when there is not sewing or other work to be done for the needy in this period.

Color in the Home
Taken from the Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service, Bulletin M.S. No. 123. 11-2-33.

"To catch enough beauty and charm in our surroundings that members of the household will find gladness and contentment within its shelter."—Missouri Home Creed.
Color is one of the magic means of creating that beauty. Without it the world would be void of charm.

While comfort and convenience are perhaps the first things to plan for in the home, the next thing of importance to stress is beauty, and sincere beauty in a home calls for suitable use of color in every object. A complete color plan should be made before beginning work on a room, so that the whole may be visualized before work is begun on any part of the unit.
It is not uncommon for people to fear color and little wonder when one thinks of the crimes against harmony that must be frequently faced. Color is truly the home decorator's strongest ally; yet, it too frequently becomes her strongest bugaboo. Color may lend a doleful atmosphere, a bizarre effect to the whole room; yet, it may be used so as to produce a room pleasingly restful and inviting.
To avoid tragic color effects in decorating; those that over-stimulate, even irritate; those so glum as to be depressing, to produce other trying conditions, a knowledge of few simple facts and rules is essential.
Helpful suggestions are to be found in Handicraft for Every Woman.

Lesson I
Color in the Home
References. Basic Principles of Art, Part 2, C. Pages 24-26, 58-59, Handicraft for Every Woman.

PAY particular attention to differences in Primary colors of light and the Primary colors of pigment, and how you would apply this knowledge to the beautifying of your home. Pigment colors are the ones we use in paint, dye and calcimine. Following is an interesting demonstration to be given at meeting to make the women conversant with color. Use either commercial dye (3 pkgs, one red, one yellow, one blue) or use calcimine 5 cents worth of red, of yellow and of blue. Be sure to ask for pure primary colors. With either medium prepare them at home. A number of small cups are necessary. With the dye use white cloth as your subject, with calcimine use white type paper cut in strips. First divide each color into three. Dilute one ½, one ⅓ and the other undiluted. This gives you three intensities; a tint, a stronger color and a hue. Make your sample by dipping in your cloth or paper and pin up to dry. Now mix a red tint and a blue tint—cloth. A red tint and yellow tint—orange tint. Continue until you have crossed all your tints. Cross your stronger colors, then, your hues. Now combine all three primary tints, etc. to get your grays. From this knowledge you can now experiment intelligently and produce any color desired. Let the women come up and play with the colors. It's a great deal of fun. After you have mixed all the colors you care to, pick out the most beautiful samples. Then arrange them for a study of contrast. Suggest that the women go home and dye some rags for rugs and modify the commercial calcimine to their own taste. They will enjoy their rooms much more if a little individuality is in them.

Note: Write your State Agricultural College Extension Division for suggestions.