[Vol23 | August 1936 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Guide | Title: Teacher's Topic for October: The Parables of Jesus]

TEACHER'S TOPIC

TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR OCTOBER

THE PARABLES OF JESUS

Introduction
THE Parables constitute the larger part of Christ's recorded teaching. They contain the fundamental principles and show the love, justice, and compassion that characterized His mission. Because of their great beauty and the spiritual truths they contain they will be taken as a message to the homes of our people by our Visiting Teachers.

What is a Parable?
"In a restricted sense, it is the name given to a connected narrative, whether of events in human life or of a process in nature, by which some great spiritual truth is illustrated or enforced."
"It is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning."
"A parable is a narration of well known scenes or events in human life and its surroundings for the purposes of giving them a moral or religious application."
"In a parable there is nothing contrary to the truth of nature and to life. If there is, then it is no parable."
Christ used parables to illustrate the truths he wished to teach. They were presented in the form and image of familiar things, common in the world of nature and human experience. They deal with the ideas of the simple people and the incidents and situations with which they were familiar. He had no mysteries to teach, it was His wish that all, even the humble and unlearned should understand Him.

THE LOST SHEEP
Luke 15:1-7.
"Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them.
"And he spake this parable unto them, saying,
"What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?
"And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.
"I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance."
Palestine was a pastoral country. Any story in regard to sheep would be immediately understood and appreciated. The country was rough and dangerous, the paths winding and uncertain. There were great dangers to sheep that strayed away. When the sheep became lost the anxious shepherd searched diligently until it was found. He took it up tenderly on his shoulders and carried it home. It needed his extra protection on account of the experiences through which it had passed. He called the other shepherds together, told them of his joy, related the trouble he had and how he sought everywhere for the sheep that was lost.
There are three points in the application of this parable. First, the sad fate of the sheep that goes astray and is lost. Second, the Shepherd's love and care for the sheep and the care he takes to find it. Third. His joy at finding it.
Just as a shepherd cares for every one in his flock and exerts himself to save a lost sheep, so does Christ care for the welfare of his children individually, and has joy in their recovery and safety. This joy gives hope to the sinner.
The figure of the Good Shepherd has been exceedingly loved in the Church and has frequently been the subject of literature and art throughout the centuries.
We might ask ourselves, What are our obligations to those who have made mistakes, and how truly do we forgive the repentant lost one?