[Vol23 | August 1936 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Lund]
Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary Uintah Stake OR the past year, the Uintah Stake Relief Society has tried to create a greater desire among the women to read the Scriptures.
There is abundant proof that the efforts are bearing fruit. A class in Bible study, under the direction of the Seminary teacher, is conducted. On February 8, the Stake Relief Society Board presented a pageant, "The Bible Speaks.'' The author, Mrs. Evelyn Maeser Crandall, personally directed the splendid production. The Stake was especially grateful to Sister Crandall, who is the only surviving daughter of Dr. Karl G. Maeser. It is not difficult to trace, in the beautiful life of Sister Crandall, the wonderful influence of her gifted father. The pageant was an inspiration.
Many wonderful characters of the Old Testament were portrayed.
Beginning with the Book of Genesis, coming in continuity down to the time of Christ, the magnificent characters of Old Testament history were portrayed. The cast included almost one hundred people, with a chorus of twenty-five participating. The great personal interest of those who took part in this presentation was expressed, as they seemed to imbibe the spirit of the fine characters represented. The picture below is a fine representation of the ensemble. San Francisco Stake AN FRANCISCO is one of our young Stakes and has all the enthusiasm of youth. The Relief Society conceived the plan of raising 2 a SE 2 + ca MS Ae ee Palak ae sce 3. UINTAH STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD funds for the new Stake House, and the happy event was presented on March 17th, the anniversary of Relief Society. The sewing supervisor was chairman of the drive for funds. She purchased brown denim, and made a number of little shoes.
Each shoe was accompanied by a typed message explaining the purpose. A very substantial contribution followed this unique method of soliciting funds.
Another activity of this enterprising Stake has found expression in the Project work. A very beautiful example and concrete evidence of the effect of this work among the - women of the organization was demonstrated in a beautiful book sent to the general office by Sister Orel Elder, Project Leader of the Stake. The book was compiled by Sister Jennie Richards, Project Leader of the Mission Ward. It really demonstrated a remarkable fund of information in reference to the Old Testament, and the subject matter was beautifully expressed in epic form by Sister Richards. The references and titles for each month's study were given in advance. The women were then asked to read carefully and summarize the contents of the individual Books, pointing out the inspirational messages of each particular piece of literature. The entire contents of the Old Testament was covered in the book. It was illustrated with color pictures, which added much to the attractiveness. The book was dedicated by Sister Richards to her grandchildren, and certainly was a valuable record for them to possess.
This fine demonstration, while perhaps one of the outstanding features, was typical of what has been accomplished through the enterprising spirit of Relief Society women, 511
Bear River Stake ANOTHER demonstration of the effect of Bible reading comes to us from Bear River Stake. This was used in a very beautiful teachers' leaflet, the opening paragraph of which was: "In times past millions have sought solace from care and discouragement, and have found hope, and 'the peace that passeth understanding' from the Book of Books—the Bible." Passages from Scripture, demonstrating the truth of this, followed. The material was wonderfully well chosen, and demonstrated the fact that the Hebrew stories are woven from the fabric of life and have a universal appeal. Their Project also included special attention to Mothers of the Bible. To quote further: "In no other history can there be found so many stories of beautiful mothers as are to be found in the Bible. The singular beauty of the Hebrew women, and the natural warmth of their affections, together with their sublime faith and courage, have combined to 'throw gems of domestic loveliness over the pages of the Bible. From Eve to Mary the Bible presents pictures of womanly beauty and virtue that are unsurpassed and rarely paralleled elsewhere.' " Austrailian Mission— (Tasmanian District) ROM one of our most remote Relief Society organizations comes a delightful message from Sister Florence T. Rees, Mission Relief Society President. After having completed a tour of the Mission, which takes practically three months' time, she reports that the work of the Relief Society is progressing most satisfactorily. In this particular branch the young women are a great asset and participate actively in the work of the Relief Society. 512
One particular sister, however, should receive special attention as her life was most unusual. Sister Alva Eva Lennard's parents were among the early settlers in Australia. A desire for religious freedom prompted their emigration to this distant country.
Naturally they found a very great change from what they had expected, and times were hard. Sister Lennard's grandfather was a school master, and the hard labor necessary in a new country was very difficult for him, and he did not live long after arriving. Sister Lennard's grandmother and her mother had the full experience of the pioneer woman with all of its test of courage, faith and strength to meet the problems and surmount the difficulties. Sister Lennard was born in Kapunda, South Australia, and went to live in Adelaide with her parents when eighteen years of age, at which time she began the study of dressmaking, in which she achieved great success, both as a designer and sewer. She was very successful in this business until the time of her marriage. Her husband was not strong, and died, leaving her with three small children to rear and educate. A woman of unusual talent, she soon turned her art of designing to good account, and her services were sought by some of the leading firms in Adelaide. She also received a diploma from London for her excellent cutting.
While designing and sewing was her real vocation, she was very fond of music, and became an accomplished singer, which talent she used most freely for Church service. She was deeply impressed with the truth of the Gospel, and became prominent in Church work in Australia. She was President of the Relief Society for more than twelve years, during which time she achieved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE an enviable reputation far and wide for her sympathy and generosity. She conducted her business until past the age of 65, after which she devoted her time to her Church work. Her services were very greatly in evidence during the depression years.
