[Vol23 | August 1936 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department - Theology and Testimony, Lesson I: Christ's Ministry Foretold By The Prophets]

Lesson Department
(For First Week in October)
THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY
Lesson I

CHRIST'S MINISTRY FORETOLD BY THE PROPHETS

Helpful References
In the Old Testament: Deuteronomy 18:15, 18, 19 (compare 3 Nephi 20:23); Isaiah 11:1-5, 10 (See Doctrine & Covenants 113: 1-6); 5:2; compare Matthew 2: 4-6 and John 7:42.
In the Book of Mormon: 1 Nephi 1:19; 10:4-11; 11:13-33; Mosiah 16:6, 7; Helaman 14:1-28; 3 Nephi 1:10-21. Consult index of Book of Mormon, current edition, under the title of Christ for numerous other references.
In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 5:6-8; 6:57; 7:54-56. Abraham 3:22-27.
Talmage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 5.

Scriptures Foretold Coming of a Redeemer. A few years ago a noted scholar, in the hearing of the writer, made an assertion to the effect that not one passage of scripture in the Old Testament refers to the ministry of the Christ among men. In fact, it has become almost an axiom among certain critics, that the prophets made few or no predictions with reference to the future but rather "always spoke out of a definite historical situation to the present needs of the people among whom they lived." But the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph make exceedingly plain the declaration that such teaching is not true, especially with reference to the ministry of Christ. It seems to us that in the providences of God the coming advent of the Messiah was too important an event in the plan of salvation not to be made known to the children of men. The Book of Deuteronomy records, "The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken." (18:15, see also verses 18 and 19.) The Church teaches that this scripture refers to the then future advent of the Christ and that Moses, the great law-giver, was the author of it. (3 Nephi 20: 23.) Micah, the prophet, who lived about 725 B. C., predicted the place of the Messiah's birth. (5:3). The Gospel of Matthew cites this prophecy with approval; and Herod, the King, was told that Christ would be born "in Bethlehem of Judea." (Matthew 2:4-6). But great as these prophecies are, those of Isaiah are greater. The distinguished contemporary of Micah saw with astonishing clearness the work and suffering of the Redeemer among men. Who can forget His ministry as described in the matchless English of the authorized version in Isaiah 53. "He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted." Handel, the composer, caught the spirit of this scripture in his, the greatest of all oratorios, the Messiah.

2. Nephites Foresaw Christ's Coming in the Flesh. The Nephite scripture is even more explicit with reference to the coming of the Christ than is the Old Testament. When Nephi spoke of the ministry of his father, Lehi, among the Jews, prior to his leaving Jerusalem, he stated that he "manifested plainly of the coming of a Messiah, and also the redemption of the world." (1 Nephi 1:19). In one of the more remarkable chapters of the Book of Mormon, Nephi records some of the important facts of the Savior's ministry as predicted by Lehi, including the time of His appearance. "Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews—even a Messiah, or, in other words, a Savior of the world. And he spake concerning the prophets, how great a number had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world." Lehi spoke of the preparatory work of John the Baptist, his baptizing the Messiah, the preaching of the latter to the Jews, His death, resurrection, and subsequent manifestation to the Gentiles (1 Nephi 10: 4-11). In like manner other Nephite prophets spoke of the ministry and work of the Christ. Abinadi, Samuel the Lamanite, and Nephi, the son of Helaman, gave marvelous testimony to the events incident to the Savior's birth, ministry and death. The testimony of the Book of Mormon makes clear the truth that the central theme of the prophets, the one great thing that gave meaning to their testimony, was the advent and ministry of the Savior of the world.

3. Early Patriarchs Foretold Christ's Coming. The Pearl of Great Price, too, bears eloquent testimony to the coming of the Savior. When Adam, the great Patriarch of the race, was asked by an angel why he offered sacrifice, he replied, "I know not, save the Lord commanded me." The angel then explained, "This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth." (See Moses 5:6-8). It is thus seen that the human race was not denied, even from the earliest times, a knowledge of the coming of a Redeemer. Enoch bore explicit testimony of this when he spoke of "Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time." (Moses 6:57.) This great preacher was permitted by the Lord to see into the future and to behold in vision the Christ lifted up on the cross, and the great disturbances of the earth incident thereto. (Moses 7:54-56). Abraham adds his witness to the coming of the Redeemer. The Lord showed him the intelligences organized even before the world was, and also the choice of the Savior. (Abraham 3:22-28). Thus we see in the Old Testament, the Book of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price a great three-fold witness to the coming ministry of the Christ.

Questions
1. Can you cite any passages from the Old Testament pointing to the advent of the Redeemer other than those given in the lesson?
2. How do you account for the fact that the Book of Mormon is, in many respects, much clearer and more explicit in predicting the advent of Christ than is the Old Testament?

Problems for Further Study
(Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Provide a suitable musical selection from Handel's oratorio, The Messiah. Have the singer, if possible, say a few words about it, pointing out how Christ's ministry influenced Handel while he was composing it. It is suggested that some sister with musical talents be assigned this part of the lesson. If the selection from the oratorio is unobtainable, select a suitable hymn.
2. Investigate the use made in the Gospel of Matthew of Isaiah's prophecies concerning the Messiah. It is suggested that a good reference Bible be used, and the references to Isaiah be noted and studied. As examples, compare Matthew 8:17 with Isaiah 53:4; and Matthew 12: 18-20 with Isaiah 42:1-3. Compare the Gospel writer's love of Isaiah with Nephi's love of him. (See 2 Nephi 25:5.)
3. What can you say concerning the nature of the religious teaching in a good Nephite family? (Consult 2 Nephi 25:23-30; Doctrine & Covenants 84:18-27).
4. Compare the quotation in Matthew 2:15 with Hosea 11:1 and Exodus 4:22, 23. Study the context of the quotation in Hosea carefully and determine if Matthew was literally correct in attributing the coming of Jesus from Egypt as a fulfillment of Hosea's words.