The Reception for Stake Officers, in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, was beautifully arranged, and a very large gathering of General and Stake Relief Society workers spent a delightful evening. The attendance at the Conference was. Especially good. Ali General 3oard members were present, 103 out of the 104 Stakes, and 6 missions answered to the roll. There was a departure from the policy of previous years, in the fact that the Departments featuring the lesson courses, Theology, Literature, Social Service and Teachers' Topics, were deferred until October, at which time they will be given prominence. The results from the Social Service Case Work, Secretaries, Work and Business and Choristers and Organists departments, held at this Conference, were most gratifying. Two of the outstanding features of this Conference were the Music and the Work and Business Exhibition. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the able direction of Mrs. Charlotte Owen Sackett, achieved a real triumph, and special mention must be made of the exquisite number by Albert Shepherd. Violinist, and Mabel Borg Jenkins, pianist. Officers' Meeting Tuesday Morning, April 4, 1933 PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON OUR hearts are too full for utterance this morning, in gratitude to our Father in Heaven for this splendid attendance. There are so many marvelous things that you have done during the last six months, the most trying that we have had in many years. We have learned to go calmly, meet our hardships, and accomplish the most wonderful work that has ever been done. We have not had one complaint. Not one woman has said the work is too hard when we have 264 asked for extra things to be done. Our prayers have gone out to you, and we have thought earnestly and seriously before we have asked you to do things, because we knew the burden you were already carrying was heavy. It seems that all of the stakes have had a systematic way of working. Women have been away from home day after day, and yet there was no complaint. This little verse seems to me to be the one that our Father in Heaven may have said to each of your hearts: "Child of mine, lean hard And let me feel the pressure of thy. Care. I know thy burden, for I fashioned it, Poised it in my own hand and made its weight Precisely that which I saw best for thee, And when I placed it on thy trembling form I said, 'I shall be near." And when thou leanest Upon me, This burden shall be mine, not thine." I believe this. You have lived so near to our Heavenly Father that He has shared your burden and helped you to carry your load. There could not have been a finer response than we had in the Prohibition campaign. Within a week 60,000 signatures came in from our stakes in Utah. Brother George Albert Smith says if the cause is saved, it will be the women who will save it. We want to be most careful and prayerful about sustaining the Government and supporting the laws, and we must wage an educational campaign. There are many fine people who read the propaganda paid for by the "wets" and do not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE realize that they are working against the cause of righteousness. We must thank you for the very excellent response you have made to the signatures for the National Council of Women. We have here a letter of congratulation to Relief Society women, which came this morning by air mail, from Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, who is President of the National Council of Women. I do hope many women will be able to go back to Chicago this summer, for it will be a marvelous thing to see what women have accomplished in one hundred years. Weare hoping that although we have made a very fine showing in the signature campaign, we shall still be able to do more. You have, no doubt, noticed a change in our program for this Conference. We have had the departments for our lesson work at April Conference for three or four years, and it has worked out beautifully. There are good reasons for the change, however. Many of our class leaders who have worked during the past year may not take up the work next Fall, and so we have decided to have our educational program in October, just before the opening of the work, as the schools and colleges do. Sister Child will tell us more in detail about this. We want to thank you with all our hearts, and pray the Father's blessing upon you for the effort you have been making regarding the Annual Dues. We have tried to make it just as easy as possible. One President came in the other day with 100%, and we knew the stake was in a straitened condition, so we said, "How did you get it?' She said, "Oh, we put a big thermometer in our Relief Society room the first meeting in January, and at the top RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE of the thermometer, where we usually look for the temperature, we put the amount the women are to pay. There is never a thing said about it, but each week as the women pay their Annual Dues we write in this thermometer, and it just works up and up, We have never asked for any help from any of the members, but the sisters could see the thermometer there." It is amazing, the ingenuity of some of our women. I think this is demonstrated so splendidly in our wonderful display. If you had not done another thing all the year, not taken care of the sick, poor and needy, if you had not lightened the burdens of the Bishops, if you had not made this signature campaign so successful, if you had only sent in the things that are shown in our display, you would have done a marvelous year's work. Men call us up and say that they had no idea that Relief Society was doing these artistic things. A business man remarked, "I had no idea Relief Society women did this, I thought they just did patching and mending." You will know that all the beautiful articles in the Exhibition cannot have the choice place, and so if some of you sisters find your beautiful quilt is not in the best position, be good Relief Society women, and know that there was no thought of discrimination against any stake or article, only that they could not all be in one place, but the committee has done the best it could to show all to advantage. We are asking again for closer cooperation with the Bishops, or that the Bishops cooperate a little closer with us. We can request, but not demand this cooperation. As Josiah Allen's wife said, "Never nag a man, just keep it before him." We are a force in the ward, and we 265 should have a voice in carrying on the work. In our stakes we find that some of our Stake Presidents or Bishops do not consult our Stake Relief Society Presidents about reorganizations within the Society. We know it to be a fact that when they do consult with their Relief Society Stake Presidents they always have better ward officers. We may suggest it sometimes, anyway. Just say, "We are so deeply interested in the success of the Wards, that we wish to help you in the choice of the President." We still have duplications. Some of our stake board members are so valuable that we feel we must have them work in our wards, and so they have asked sometimes if they cannot be a stake board member sand a ward president. We feel this does not work out satisfactorily. It is better to release a sister from the stake if the success of the ward work depends entirely upon her. If she is so valuable that she must be in the ward, we know that she is big enough to feel that she should be released from her stake work, and be made a ward officer. Then, too, we often take someone who has worked in the past instead of developing a new woman. One of the biggest pieces of work you can do is to develop a new woman. I was in a stake one day when a certain sister took part on the program and did it beautifully. The president told me that she had lived in the ward for a number of years. And they did not know her worth until they asked her to take part, and when they put her in office she responded so well that it was just amazing. We suggest again that you will continue to beautify your home surroundings and your chapels, and look after the details that make much for comfort. In some of the chapels 266 where we have visited, the assembly hall and the amusement hall are beautiful, but when we go into the dressing room there is a lack of convenience. Oftentimes there is not a towel in the dressing room where we are having an all day meeting. Have some little woman look after this, it adds greatly to the comfort and culture of the group to see that this is taken care of. It is often very difficult to fill emergency orders for burial clothes when they come in at night, or when the office is closed. We are wondering if you sisters could not see your way clear to have a suit or two on hand. Two complete suits. You could have a medium length robe which would be all right for a man or a woman; the moccasins are the same, the only difference being the little bow of ribbon, and we could send the bows to be attached if necessary. The apron is the same: the garments are the same; so that if you just had one robe, one apron, one pair of moccasins and one pair of garments, a man's cap and a woman's veil, you would have two suits for emergency, and they do not need to be expensive. Consider this, and see if you do not think it is a wise provision. Do not have public meetings when you are discussing welfare work and Relief Society funds. It is a most serious thing. If necessary you should give tickets to those who are entitled to come in, and even at the expense of hurting someone's feelings, do not allow anyone in your welfare or your presidents' departments at Union Meeting, except those who are entitled to be there. It makes trouble, and those not in the work cannot quite understand it. Weare trying to get away from the idea of having the public at our Union Meetings, and I believe you It is not necessary to have | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will find that it will work out to out advantage. It has hurt the feelings of some of the sisters, but a Union Meeting is not an entertainment, nor a sermon, nor anything that would he of importance to anyone but the people who are entitled to be there. It is marvelous how some of the stakes with widely scattered wards can keep in touch with them. In Juarez, for example, we were amazed to find the volumes of material sent out to the far away wards, They can only hold Union Meeting once in three months, at their quarterly conference, because it is so difficult to get down from the mountains. Every month, instead of the class leaders preparing the lesson for the ward class leaders to come in, they are prepared and sent out. The President explained that the stake had cooperated and bought a mimeograph for the use of all the organizations. It was not so difficult to cut a stencil of a certain lesson and have it mimeographed. Presidents, keep close to your wards, check on them, and if you give them any special thing to do, do not forget it and let them do it or not, just as they see fit. Always check on it, no matter if it is the simplest thing, check on everything you ask them to do, and you will find it stimulates their interest. Sister Lederman, who is so well qualified and has taught in the L. D. S. College, is now teaching the women of the Church. She is having an exhibition over in the Lion House and is happy to let you have the benefit of any instructions. You no doubt noticed an artcle in the Relief Society Magazine for March about flax, and the growing of flax. You will be interested to read in the Journal of Discourses a report of a man visiting Salt Lake City in 1849, where he speaks of the beautiful flax fields which were here, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE just two years after the pioneers came. Now, we are told there is a real money market for flax. It is easily grown. In the exhibition there is a linen tablecloth which was made here in the Third Ward by a Relief Society woman and her husband. It was woven on a hand loom shortly after they came here. It is said that the Jordan river water is the best in the United States for retting the flax, so we may have an industry here. Flax is beautiful to look at while it is growing. For more information write to the Utah Flax Products Company, 32 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. I humbly pray that the Lord will bless us. We have all been praying that you would be able to come in safety, and that your families would be protected during your absence. We did have a bit of sad news this morning, and we want your faith and 267 prayers to go out for Sister Ririte, president of the Taylor Stake. She left home with a number of Canadian sisters to come down to Conference, and we had a message this morning to tell her that her husband had passed away since she left. Let us pray to the Lord to help her bear this sorrow. Prayer is a wonderful thing—all of us here together praying for something. There is a mighty power in prayer. Sometimes I think we rather forget, but we must not forget, for this time of the world certainly calls for prayer and living close to each other and close to God. Pray for Sister Ririe and Sister Kittie Burton, president of Star Valley Stake, who has been ill for so long. She wants us to pray for her, and I know the Lord does hear the prayers of you wonderful women, who are doing so much for his children. Reorganizations Date Stake Released Appointed President Nov., 1932 Lyman Rettie Blackner Martha Field Nov., 1932 Maricopa Mary A. Clark Elnora Shupe Nov., 1932 California Mission Charlotte R. Stahr Rose R. Hinckley GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. F. LUND T gives me great pleasure again this morning to express my appreciation to the Secretaries. 'In the reports as they were submitted this year we find the work of the secretaries to be in very capable hands. There were a greater number than ever before perfect reports, and those in which there were errors were of so minor a character that the report itself was practically perfect, showing that the secretaries have an understanding of their work. I think we cannot express too great appreciation for this fine service, for an organization is judged by the record it keeps. We expect this afternoon to meet the secretaries and discuss some possible changes in our record book, and some little differences that may be made necessary. During this particular period. Which we are covering at present, there have been problems arise which perhaps the secretaries have not met before, but their work has been most excellent during this year. The following abridged report is submitted: Nov., 1932 Cottonwood [Emily M. Carlisle Lavina H. McMillan 268 Total balance on hand January 1, 1932, $152,373.58; Total receipts during 1932, $233,519.57; Total balance on hand and receipts, $385,- 893.15; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $111,343.23; Total disbursements, $253,623.18; Total balance December 31, 1932, $182,269.97; Total assets, $983,460.11; Ward conferences held, 1,277; Number of visits by visiting teachers, 881,436; Number special visits to sick and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE homebound, 214,637. Membership: 1931, 66,884; 1932, 67,382, showing an increase of 498. The membership includes: Executive and Special Officers 11,107; visiting teachers, 23,322, other members, 32,953, Average attendance, 1931, 27,234, 1932, 28,790, showing an increase of 1,556. Paid for charitable purposes, 1931, $116,448.17, 1932, $111,343.- 23, showing a decrease of $5,104.94. THE Reiger Society MAGAZINE MRS. MARCIA K. HOWELLS Member of the General Board NCE, as a stranger, in a far away tropical city, so hot that at noonday the streets were entirely deserted, in Singapore, 12,000 miles from here, I found a copy of our Relief Society Magazine. It was like meeting an old friend in a foreign port. There were many magazines, in that hotel reading room, from London, New York and Sydney-—there were magazines there that sold for more than one dollar a copy, but none were more fingered, and none looked so good to me, as that copy of our own Relief Society Magazine; some thoughtful missionary must have left it there. That was ten years ago, and I have read every isstte since that time. I have found excellent recipes for cooking, interesting stories, delightful poetry, always timely topics—a magazine with a cheerful, helpful message, a magazine that ever sings a song of hope to all who will listen. I love and appreciate our magazine and as a Relief Society worker I find it indispensable. It standardizes the lesson work, directs the relief program and keeps workers in close touch with the General Board and with each other. Every member, as well as every officer and teacher, should have it. It would be just as easy for a surgeon to operate without instruments as for a class leader to teach the required lesson without the use of the magazine. Though it meets the requirements of the most advanced thought in — adult education, it is presented so the average worker understands it. Bishops are using it in their relief work. Even the tiny tots enjoy the pictures and, in fact, it contains something of interest to every member of the family. There is sufficient material in each issue to furnish a helpful thought for each and every day of the month. As Relief Society workers, it meets our needs. We simply cannot estimate the benefit it has been to sincere, loyal Relief Society workers. And it invites rereading. We must sell more than twentythousand copies of each issue, to meet the cost of publishing and mailing. The price is about eight cents a copy, and nowhere else is there such magazine value. Eight cents a month is very little to spend for so much interesting and valuable information. RELIEF SOCIETY: CONFERENCE It is less than twenty years ago, that our first Relief Society Magazine, as such, was published. It is being constantly improved and yet the price remains the same. The Literary and Social Service Lessons are comparable with college extension courses, while the Theology Lessons are sources of deep interest and appreciation. Our splendid Exhibition—now in progress, is possible, largely as a result of the exchange of ideas, contained in the Magazine, regarding Work and Business Day Activities. 269 We greatly appreciate your loyal support to our publication. Methods by which you have obtanied subscriptions are often original. Whenever possible they have been passed on to others through the medium of the Magazine. We all know that enthusiastic effort does bring results. The ideal condition would be to have the Relief Society Magazine in the home of every Relief Society member. May our Heavenly Father bless us, to this end, I humbly pray in the name of Jestis Christ, Amen. SUPPLEMENTARY AND REQUIRED READING MRS. MARY C. KIMBALL Member of the General Board HILE there is no compulsion in our work, we have standards that should be up-held and ideals that should be realized. We are eager to see the day when practically all the members of the orgations will thoughtfully and carefully read each lesson and when there will always be a discussion of the subject matter participated in by most of the members. In reaching this desired goal, the first step we wish to urge is that you devise means to get your members to read the lessons prepared in the Magazine and the text books for each subject:. "The Doctrine and Covenants" in Theology, "The Delight of Great Books" in Literature, "The White House Conference" and the Pamphlets on Personality, Habits and Growth in Social Service. The wider the reading the larger will be the storehouse to be drawn 'from. It is desirable that members and especially class leaders shall read the supplementary material suggested, but we wish to emphasize emphatically that very fine lessons can be prepared even though the supplementary material ts not available. One way to get lessons read is to make intelligent assignments of the lesson. Announce a month before hand what the lesson will be; where it is found; what supplementary material is suggested, if the people have access to the books; ask something about the lesson that will arouse interest. For instance, in assigning the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson for April, the teacher might ask: Why might the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when first organized be called "a young men's organization"? What value was there in having this young membership? Outline Section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Does your outline cover the same headings as given in the lesson? What was the great value of the trying march of Zion's Camp from Kirtland to Missouri? In assigning the Literary Lesson for April, she might ask: Why may 1819 be called a wonderful year? 270 How was Melville fitted to write the great sea story "Moby Dick" Compare the reception of the "Scarlet Letter" and "Moby Dick." Why has '"Moby Dick" been likened to an epic? Why do tales of conflict arouse great interest? What is a Parable? Why may this novel be called a Parable? In what is "Moby Dick" unique? What was the purpose of the voyage of the Pequod? Out the psychological value of the story. Bring your books with favorite passages marked. In assigning the Social Service Lesson for April the teacher might ask: Why do people who try to control others often misunderstand those whom they direct? Discuss "Vicariousness is a great aid for those who would lead their children.' How Point ° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE does the child learn the meaning of "mother"? Give illustrations from the lesson showing how the child learns what things mean. How do words acquire meaning? When is communication possible? What does the lesson say about the development of justice? Illustrate, "To perform is a part of the situation which gives meaning." Tell the story of Sammy. In what way does your child show in what he is developing? When does the need of an imaginary world fade? Discuss some of the steps by which a mother can make her children progressively free of her. Why are not young children grateful for all the sacrifices their parents may make? List instances in which your children have shown increasing independence, or initiative. LEGISLATION OF INTEREST TO WOMEN MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON Member of the General Board OOD understanding giveth favor," is a proverb worth taking to heart, and never more truly manifest than in matters of _ government. All legislation should be of interest to women, for happily that day is past when women "need not bother" over business matters, or concern themselves with anything outside the home. Science and education have emancipated women from such fallacies, and the most efficient housewife is the one who acquaints herself with laws and regulations which govern her family life. Nothing comes to her. Door in the way of provisions that is not prepared, wrapped, and labelled, as provided by law, or if it does, she has resources for protection. Some women go their happy way leaving all matters pertaining to busIness, such as taxes, mortgages, rents, loans, etc., to their husbands. "Why worry" is their maxim, and then there comes a'day when, without this protection, ignorant and in great distress, these confiding women may become an easy prey for unscrupulous and clever men or dependent on others to solve problems, which need not have happened. For the woman who faces life's battles alone, it is certainly necessary to be guided by a knowledge of one's privileges under the law. The home is the heart of the nation, and is naturally affected and regulated by the nation's laws. The question of taxes, too intricate to dwell upon at present, but important for all to study, is a vital thing in our daily lives. In the United States we have two sets of taxing authorities, vested in the Fed- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE eral Government and in the 48 States, both unrestricted in form. The main reason for taxation is revenue, and as that power may be, and is doubly used as in the income tax, and more than doubly used as in cases of the inheritance and sales tax, the burdens are increased several fold on the property owner, unless legislators remember, "the law of the wise is the fountain of life," and earnestly seek to be righteous servants of the people. Think well in electing legislative candidates, for the safety of the home depends upon their acts. Legislation of most interest to women is possibly the educational and social, and such laws as affect women in industrial pursuits. This year, because of economic conditions, some most worthy pro- 271 jects would have had to suspend operations had it not been for the interest of women, the Minimum Wage for Women, the Child Labor Law, Establishment of Juvenile Courts, etc. The necessity of these protective measures is because of recent investigations in the several States, uncovering almost unbelievable conditions in the factories. And let us not forget that the Amendment to the Constitution for the protection of Childhood has not yet been ratified by a sufficient number of States to become a law. It is gratifying to note that the legislatures this winter ignored measures discriminating against married women. Let us hold sacred our privileges of citizenship, and elect legislators of wisdom and vision in whose hands are held those things most-vital to the home and the nation, SENSING RESPONSIBILITY OF OFFICE MRS. LALENE H. HART Member of the General Board HE life of each of us is largely governed by a threefold obligation; duty to ourselves, duty to our fellowmen, and duty to our God. The law of ethics prescribes certain rules whereby human relations and _ behavior are controlled. The members of a Relief Society organization are in a school of training in ethics which is far superior to any other class or club. Besides gaining knowledge through outlined lessons, they learn other lessons in courage, tolerance, kindliness, and devotion. This school is also trying to create in its membership a sense of social obligation, to stimulate interest in the welfare of neighbors, and to develop interest in all classes and races of people. Every woman who enters into the service of this organization as an officer does so with some degree of ambition and determination to gain new ideas and experiences that will give her a broader view of life, will raise her own and others' standard of ideals, and efficiently serve those with whom she comes in contact. At no previous time has the preparation for better and more complete living been so intensive. Women are interested in more things and in more people than heretofore. They are eager to know more of human nature, their own personality and its development. Those who have been given the responsibility for directing this preparation, must rise to their possibilities and offer opportunities and experiences to their respective groups which will enable them to find a life freer from those things 272 which discourage, worry and annoy, and fuller of things that satisfy, stimulate and inspire. This responsibility has, not been solicited, but has been bestowed upon us as an honor. Any office, however, ceases to be an honor unless that office is honored. Ben Johnson says, "Great honors are great burdens, but on whom they are cast with envy he doth bear two loads. His cares must still be double to his joys in any dignity." To be worthy to preside over a well-organized society in dignity and poise is an officer's greatest achievement; it requires long intensive labor to acquire. The mission of officers is to create and develop in the lives of our members the spirit of the Gospel, and carry its message to all people, to encourage the distressed and disheartened. As we approach the end of our season's outlined work, we may well ask ourselves, has this year's work been a success or failure as far as I am individually concerned? What is success, and how is it to be meaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sured? Not by the length of the days, nor the accumulation of knowledge or influence, but by the continuous and unrelenting adaptation of the powers and capacities that we have to the opportunities and needs of our environment. Such a result may be far short of the standard we have set for ourselves, or it may even exceed it, but nothing can excel in loftiness of purpose the desire to make the most effective use of our talents in the service of others. That Relief Society Officer has achieved success, who has lived well, loved much, given generously, served willingly, and grown _ graciously through her responsibility. She has failed if she has ignored the truth, discarded her highest ideals and lain aside the standards of her own organization and the Church. Let us sense seriously the responsibility that rests upon us to rise and shine, and show the way to a doubting, waiting, skeptical world, that there is a God in heaven, that Jesus Christ lives and that He is interested in the walfare of his children.