Department Meetings SociAL CasE WorkK DEPARTMENT COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN Chairman HE following program was carried out: Invocation, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon; "Federal Relief," Judge Hugo B. Anderson; Discussion, President Louise Y. Robison; "Importance of Uniform Standards in County Welfare Work," Dr. Joseph A. Geddes;* Discussion, Counselor Amy Brown Lyman; Benediction, Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker. The addresses by Judge Anderson *To be printed later. And Dr. Geddes were freely discussed, with many questions from the audience. In the discussion the responsibility of relief funds was stressed, attention being called to the fact that Government money used for relief must be paid back by somebody, and the same care should be used in its administration as in the administration of any other relief funds. The matter of caring for those in distress after Government Remi BOCIETYSCONFERENCE 273 relief is discontinued, was pictured as a real problem for the, future. Greater economy in everyday life was urged, and reference was made to the economies practiced by the western pioneers, who lived within their income, not expecting outside help or relief. The need of uniform standards in Church and County welfare work was brought out, and illustrated by various examples showing that in some towns in a county the relief rate is much higher than in other towns similarly situated, also that in some. Stakes some wards give much more relief than others where the living conditions are practically the same. The great need of a State Public Welfare Department was stressed, such a Department to standardize and supervise the welfare work of the State, such as the State supported welfare institutions and the County welfare departments. FEDERAL RELIEF JUDGE HUGO B. ANDERSON T is just four and a half years since I had the privilege of addressing one of the sessions of the Relief Society Conference. At that time, although we did not then realize it, we were plunging headlong into one of the worst economic emergencies our country has ever faced. It is perhaps significant of the change in attitude of all of us, that we were then discussing the States' responsibility for social welfare problems, whereas today our attention is directed from the local to the National aspects of the problems and from welfare problems in general to the one problem which has overshadowed all others, the problem of unemployment relief by the Federal Government. For four years almost the Federal Government has been attempting in one way or another to solve the problem of relief for the unemployed. If we look back over those years we can identify four different phases in the national attitude toward the problems of relief. To begin with, we all felt that the depression was going to be of short duration; that the return of prosperity was just around the corner. The attitude of the Federal Government was to stimulate private giving to take care of the problem of unemployment relief. To accomplish that purpose the President of the United States organized a committee which persistently reminded us that relief was a local problem. Extensive publicity throughout the country urged people locally to take care of their local unemployed. As evidence of the success of this policy, in the Fall of 1931, Community Chests throughout the country raised approximately 10% more than they had raised in the previous year, 1930. Even at that time, however, relief was given approximately 759% from public funds, and 25% from private funds. Before the year was over we realized the impossibility of attempting to handle the problem through increasing private gifts, and the following year we entered into the second stage in the national attitude toward unemployment relief—that relief for the unemployed is largely a state responsibility, which must he cared for chiefly through public funds, supplied by local or state taxation. As evidence of that change in attitude, private giving in the Fall of 1932 as shown by the receipts of Community Chests through the 274 nation dropped 22% under the figures for 1931, and the percentage of relief provided from tax funds increased from 75% to 90% of the total, leaving 10% only to be cared for through private contribution. The taxing bodies, however, soon encountered difficulties. Tax revenues decreased and tax delinquents increased. The limits of bonded indebtedness were reached; the sale of bonds was impossible and returns from new types of taxes proved disappointing. We began to realize that the local tax units could not take care of the problem, and in this last year we entered the third stage in our national program for unemployed relief—the stage of relief loans to states. In July of 1932, Congress passed the Emergency Relief and Construction Act as an amendment to the Reconstruction I'inance Corporation Act. Under the terms of that Act, the Federal Government set up a fund of three hundred million dollars to furnish relief and work relief for needy and distressed people and to relieve the hardship resulting from unemployment. Provision was made for obtaining the funds by application from the Governor of the State. The application had to certify the necessity for the funds and the inadequacy of local funds to care for the problem. The funds were then loaned to the State at 3% interest, with a provision for repayment out of future allocations of road funds made from the lederal Government to the States commencing in 1935, and extending over a period of five years. The administration of the funds was placed in the hands of the Governor, as his sole responsibility. Few regulations were given to the states. They were warned that the fund was supplemental to their local resources, and not in lieu of them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE They were asked to provide periodic reports by counties showing the number of families and homeless individuals in need, the amount of local funds which had been expended in the previous months and_ the amount available; the number of families and homeless individuals actirally cared for, and an estimate of the additional funds required to care for those which could not be cared for through local funds. States were urged to provide their own funds for costs of administration. Funds were to be distributed on the basis of need and to this end a definition of Work Relief was promulgated by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation as_ follows: "Work relief is wages or other compensation paid for work, where the recipient and the amounts given are both determined on the basis of actual need. Such funds are made available from those specifically appropriated or contributed for relief purposes, and are used for worthwhile projects, determined by the locality, which could not otherwise be undertaken at the time or in the immediate future. Wages in return for such work may be paid in cash or in kind." The State followed the example largely of the Federal Government, and made few regulations for the distribution of the money. I am speaking more particularly of Utah, because I am not so well acquainted with the other states from which some of you come. We had no public welfare department in Utah. A volunteer committee of citizens was appointed by the Governor, and a similar committee was appointed in each county of the State. The local committee of representative citizens waS appointed by the County Commission- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ers, but did not usually include the County Commissioners. The County Committee was made responsible for the distribution of the funds within the county. Regulations provided that all families receiving assistance be investigated by the best trained workers available. No cash relief was to be given and orders were limited to items of food, fuel and clothing. To begin with work relief might be paid for in cash or kind. We had not gone far until the State Committee prohibited paying for work relief in cash, because of evidence from many parts of the State that the funds were being used for the purpose of providing employment to all unemployed whether or not they were in actual need. Where work was provided, the state committee required that those doing the work be covered by Workmen's Compensation Insurance. The County was required to pay its own administration costs. Under the provisions of the Federal Act, forty states up to March 15, 1933, had distributed relief, and all but about seventy million of the three hundred million had been expended. In Utah from the month of September to the end of April we have had allocated to us from the Federal fund $2,560,299.00 which, is approximately $5.00 per capita for the population of the state. The average for the United States to March 15 was approximately $1.87 per capita from the Federal fund. There are in the State of Utah, 32,000 families receiving relief through the R. F. C. Funds, in addition to approximately 6,000 single individuals. If you divide the population of the State by about 4%, which is the average number of people in a family, you will find that we are providing relief in the State of Utah to more than one family in 275 every four in the State. The average for the nation as a whole, is about one family in seven. There is only one state in the union which has to date distributed a higher per capita relief from the Federal funds than the State of Utah, and that is the State of Illinois, which up to March 15, had distributed $5.04 per capita, and which just yesterday received an additional 334 million dollars from the R. F. C. The average relief per family in the State of Utah has been less than $15.00 per month per family, whereas the national average runs approximately $17.86 per month per family. According to reports of the Federal Children's Bureau. What do these figures mean to us? We are spending relief in the State of Utah at a rate which, if it were continued for the year, would make our relief bill almost as great as the total revenues of the State of Utah, yet we have no department in the state government to control that expenditure, or to study the necessity of it nor its effects on the lives of our people. We have only a volunteer committee. Is not this problem as vital to us as the problem of any other department in the State government—banking, agriculture, insurance, or any others for which we have set up supervisory or regulative machinery? I believe we cannot separate the spiritual and the social welfare of our people in this state, and yet so far as I know there is no one who is designated by our Church and trained to advise on the causes of these high relief figures or the probable effect of the relief and the methods used in its administration on the moral character and social welfare of the people of our Church. It seems to me we have largely been content to delegate to the Relief Society sisters the study 276 of our social problems, but have been very reluctant to listen to their counsel, or to permit them to disburse the money or determine the policies under which relief is disbursed during this emergency. I deny that an untrained man can disburse relief more effectively or with better social results than a trained woman. I do not mean by that to imply that our relief should be disbursed by the women necessarily, but I do say that if the men are going to disburse our relief funds, it is high time they recognize that training is necessary for the job. I deny that a man who needs training for farming, banking, law or any other vocation can nevertheless adjust human relationships and pass upon methods of dealing with those in distress without special training for that job. The best minds we can produce and train should be today seeking an answer as to what these relief figures mean to our people. We should ask and seek answers to such questions as these: Are we harder hit by the depression than any one else? We should perhaps not be, our resources are more varied than many. Have our people less in personal reserves than the average citizens of this nation? President Hoover's commission on "Recent Social Trends in the United States" discovered by a study of four million income tax returns that the people of the United States in 1928 gave in philanthropic contributions one and eight-tenths of their total income. We in Utah I am sure give a much higher percentage of our incomes for religious and philanthropic purposes. Does this diminish our personal reserves? If it does, should we not provide that the lack of personal reserves be compensated for by some kind of group or social RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE reserve to provide necessities during these periods of emergency? Are we more quick to ask for help than others? Are we less careful in inquiring as to the needs of those to whom help is given? The Relief Society Magazine of February, 1929, quotes me as having said on October 4, 1928, the last time I talked to this Relief Society group: "Outside of the work which is being done by our L. D. S. Relief Society, our system of poor relief has become antiquated. We are giving, giving, without combining with it any effort, through trained social workers, to prevent the necessity of giving. We are pauperizing and injuring the recipients, acting unjustly to our own people and to the tax payers who are not members of our faith." As I look back over our short experience with Federal relief, I cannot help but feel that it furnishes a good deal of evidence of the truth of that statement, disagreeable though it may seem. In the administration of Federal relief funds, there are many problems which have arisen in the local communities. Shall we provide a make work program or give direct relief? I believe the people of this state are in favor of providing work for those to whom relief is given. It has taken us a long time to realize, however, that it is harder to administer, more costly and more subject to abuse than direct relief. We are not in all communities prepared to administer work relief. Shall payment for work relief be given in cash or kind? Payment in kind is cheaper and less subject to abuse. Although this may furnish some justification for payment in kind, we should realize a serious danger in payment in kind. We cannot provide all those who are in need of relief with work. We are not prepared with a work RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE program big enough to take care of them. Some therefore must inevitably receive direct relief. We should not place ourselves in a position of saying to one man, you work and get in return groceries for your family, and to another man, you get groceries for your family and do nothing. Such a policy removes the incentive to work which above all else we should attempt to build up. There is a great deal of justification, it seems to me _ for adopting the policy that if a man works he should be given the advantage of having his relief in cash, so that he may provide for his family as he sees fit. The morale of the unemployed will be better and instead of attempting to secure relief without work the effort will be to avoid direct relief and secure work relief whenever possible. In Salt Lake County we have had an interesting problem as to whether we should give orders for groceries, coal and other commodities on the retail stores, or on a community warehouse. Recently the auditors for the County Committee made an intensive study to determine the cost of grocery orders given through the Community Warehouse and those on the local stores. The result of that audit shows that the warehouse orders for a family of five for two weeks cost per order, in round numbers $5.15 and store orders for the same merchandise cost approximately $5.93. The local committee here felt that the difference in the cost of the orders was not sufficient to justify the breaking down of our regular channels of business, and consequently our warehouse has recently been discontinued in this community. After a winter of Federal loans to the States for relief, the national situation seems to he about this at 277 the present time: the three hundred million dollars which was set up for two years is practically gone, and the first year is not over; further loans to the states in many cases can not be repaid out of future allocations from the Government for roads, because the prospective grants for roads are cut off or exhausted: the questions of rent, light and medical care for the destitute which have been held in the background all these months, are now pressing for solution upon those administering relief; a growing number of the unemployed are exhausting their resources and being forced into the group requiring relief. As a result of testimony recently received by Congressional Committees on these conditions throughout the nation, we are about to enter the fourth phase in the national program of unemployed relief—direct Federal grants to the states, made without provision for repayment to the I*ederal Government. The Roosevelt program, as I gather it from the press, is made up of three parts. Iirst, there is provided a five hundred million dollar relief fund, given as direct grants to the states, part of which will be allocated to the states in proportion to the amount of local relief funds they are providing and the balance of which will be allocated to the states where most needed. These grants, not being loans, will not be handled through the R. F. C. But through a separate relief administration, and being direct grants can be given to the states on any conditions the relief administration may see fit. The second part of the program provides 250 million dollars for the so-called civilian conservation corps. Unmarried men 18 to 25 years of age are to be enlisted through the War Department for a period of 278 six months to a year. They will be paid a wage of $1.00 per day plus board, lodging and medical care, and will work in camps in the National forests under semi military discipline. The third part of the program provides one billion dollars for an enlarged public works program, for projects which are "needful and in the public interest." What is the challenge in this program to social workers? I think we must realize certain disadvantages and dangers in Federal Relief. There is no question in my mind but that the further the recipient is away from the source of his relief, the less reluctant he is to ask and receive help. That is one of the great dangers of Federal Relief. The only way I can see to get the great numbers of our people off the relief lists is through an increase in the regular channels of employment and through work provided by the Federal Government, which will gradually provide resources for these families, and enable the relief agencies to discontinue giving relief to them. The greatest challenge social work has ever had in my judgment is the challenge today to fit these families back in regular channels of work and see that they are required to be self supporting as soon as economic conditions make that possible. There is one hope which we may look forward to in connection with Federal Relief. In the days of Queen Elizabeth when great numbers of the population of England were made dependent through RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE plagues of cholera the English Government was forced to pass the so called Poor Laws of Elizabeth, under which the Government assumed responsibility for the care of and undertook to provide for those who were made destitute. The most outstanding result of those poor laws was the development of preventive medicine and later of preventive social work. The government concluded—if we must take care of these people, certainly we should do something to prevent their becoming destitute. The poor laws, by placing on the government the care of dependents, became a powerful force in hastening the development of preventive social work. So we may hope that after this fourth stage in the attitude of Federal government toward relief that the Federal government as a result of these vast expenditures for the care of the unemployed will see the necessity of preventive action for the future. We may hope that, insofar as possible the Federal government will take steps to prevent future unemployment, and its resulting disasters. We may hope that out of this great catastrophe may come government action to eliminate so far as possible sickness, mental disturbances, premature death, accidents and unemployment, the five great causes of dependency, and that to the extent that they cannot be done away with, the government will provide some means through insurance, or otherwise, to spread their evil effects over larger groups and over a longer period of time.: SECRETARIES' DEPARTMENT GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. F. LUND Chairman A VERY successful meeting of the Stake Secretaries was held in the reception room of the Lion House. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Some general instructions in reference to the Secretaries' work were given by the Secretary and Mrs. Ellen F. Shepherd. The meeting took the form of a Round Table Discussion, in which the entire group participated. The subjects discussed 279 were: Annual Dues, Membership in the Relief Society, Methods of Recording, Rolls, Contributions, The Annual Report, The Record Book, The Wheat Fund, and other problems of the Secretary. WORK AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT MRS. AMY W. EVANS Chairman THE program consisted of the demonstration of a Relief Society social, as it is recommended that occasionally such form of recreation be part of the Work and Business activities. The meeting opened by the congregation singing "Put Your Shoulder to the Wheel." Prayer was offered by Nettie D. Bradford. Community singing was led by Mrs. Eastmond. A trio by Relief Society women from Provo, Utah, Mrs. Eastmond, Mrs. Merle Taylor, Mrs. Cullimore, conducted by Margaret Hull Eastmond, was then rendered. Amy W. Evans and Lotta Paul Baxter spoke briefly on the splendid exhibition of work done through the Work and Business Department. Inez K. Allen was then introduced as mistress of ceremonies. She conducted a very entertaining program of music and readings, which included a talk by President Louise Y. Robison. Under the direction of Lalene H. Hart, who had arranged and beautifully decorated tables according to the four seasons, refreshments were served. Representatives from the Big Horn Stake, the Mexican Mission, Arizona and Nevada, sat at the tables. A social hour followed. Closing prayer was offered by Jennie B. Knight. CHORISTERS AND ORGANISTS DEPARTMENT MRS IDA PETERSON BEAL Chairman VERY successful two hours were spent with the choristers and organists of the Relief Society. Words of appreciation and encouragement were given by members of the Music Committee. The work for the year was outlined. It consists of a major and a minor project. The major project develops two hymns: "Come, Come Ye Saints," and "Come Thou Glorious Day of Promise," and three other group songs: Brahms' '"Lullaby," "I Passed by Your Window," and "Holy Redeemer." These songs are arranged in three parts for women's voices. The minor project is Music Appreciation. Mrs, Charlotte Owen Sackett gave a very comprehensive talk to this group, stressing the thought that the folk song was the basis of musical form. From this basis rhythm was established, and later this form was extended into composed or written music. Helpful suggestions concerning tone, rhythm, proper breathing, correct beating of time, were given. They are fundamental to good singing. A selected group of L. D. S. Singing Mothers sang the songs outlined for the year's study.