280 RELTEM SOCIETY MAGAZING General Session Vednesday Morning PREVIEW OF COURSE OF STUDY COUNSELOR JULIA A. CHILD Member of the General Board WE are nearing the close of another Relief Society season as far as the lesson work is concerned. We feel that the past year has been a very profitable one for the members of our great organization. It has heen very gratifying to hear from the different stakes and wards how helpful the outlined Courses of Study have been. From reports it seems that not only have our Class' Leaders done better work, but that more members have participated in the discussion and in many cases an increase in attendance has resulted from the interest awakened in different subjects. In taking advantage of the opportunity for study afforded by our educational program, we are not only fulfilling one of the purposes for which we were organized, the development of the individual members, but are working in harmony with educational leaders throughout the Nation. During the last decade, the movement of adult education has gained great popularity and is being stressed in all parts of the country. At a recent meeting of the Superintendent's section of the National Education Association held in Minneapolis, the members were told that, teaching the Nation's adults to utilize their free time profitably is a pressing problem before educational agencies today, and they were urged to formulate sound adult educational programs in order to help to do this. Adult education refers to education outside of the usual formal channels for men and women engaged in ordinary pursuits of life, or simply the desire or effort of erown people to go on learning. Learning, growing and developing are continuous processes and it is gratifying to know how many of our women are taking advantage of the opportunity provided for them through the class work in the Society, and by participating in it, are becoming active students, thus becoming educated in the broadest sense of the word. We are appreciative of the help that has been extended the Relief Society by those who have had charge of the different Leadership Weeks through the Church, particularly the Brigham Young University. We feel sure that much good has resulted by permitting the discussion of the lesson work at these sessions. We hope that this may be continued and enlarged upon in the future so that wherever a Leadership Week is held throughout the Church, the lesson work of the Relief Society may be part of the program. We appreciate the work of the Class Leaders, both Stake and Ward. Much time has been devoted to research and the preparation of the outlined lesson, in order that the best possible presentation might be made. The results have been gratifying. It has been the custom for a number of years to have Departments for the educational work at the April Conference, where the work to be given the following year is discussed and demonstrated. This year we RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are departing from that procedure. Many of our members have suggested that often during the summer the Class Leaders are changed and often Stake Boards are reorganized. When this occurs, the new members coming in have not had the benefit of the detailed discussion in lesson work. To remedy this, the plan is to give just a short preview at this time of what next year's work will he, then at the October Conference when we hope to have Class Leaders in attendance, department work will be held, and the work given in detail as far as possible. THEOLOGY I am sure you will all be delighted to know that in the Theological Department we will continue the study of the Doctrine and Covenants. Topics will be: 1. Obedience to Law, the basis of Human Rewards. 2. The Law of Consecration. 3. Attitude toward Civil Law. 4. The Word of Wisdom. 5. Duty of Preaching the Gospel. 6. The Part Played by Intelligence in Salvation. 7. The Penalty of Bondage. 8. Gifts of the Spirit. 9. Zion, the New Jerusalem. The writer of our lesson says, "Thus the lessons for the year 1933- 1934 deal primarily with the relation between earthly conduct and Divine rewards." Obedience to. Spiritual, civil and physical laws is prerequisite to the reception of God's choicest blessing. Obedience liberates; disobedience enslaves. As the Master says, "The truth shall make you free." Deity rewards his children severally with blessings (Gifts of the Spirit) adapted to their capacity and preparation. Zion, the New Jerusalem, will be established as an abode for those who love the Lord. If you will remember last year, when we started with the work of 281 the Doctrine and Covenants, we were reminded that it was a book of Modern Revelation, especially designed to meet the needs of the latter days. We were told that the aims of the lessons would be to discover the outstanding features, and the specific message which that book has for us. During the past year, we have had a most interesting course in literature with the "Delight of Great Baoks," by Erskine, as a guide. I am sure that all of us have been lead to see new beauties in the Classics studied. The title of the course of study for 1933-1934, "Life and Literature," speaks the spirit of the course. The approach to literature will be that of an appreciation of the best that man has recorded of his experiences with Life. Beginning with the first literary records, as many of the best loved books of the ages as possible will be considered under the following divisions: LITERARY LESSONS FOR 1933-4 1. Life and Literature. 2. The Gifts of the Greeks to the World. The Roman View of Life. The Bible—''A Record of the Life and Literature of the Ancient Hebrews." The Poetry of the Bible. The Prose of the Bible. The Romance of the Ages. A Great Literary Master—Shakespeare. "The Tempest." The Spiritual Values of Literature.; The textbook is "The Story of World Literature," by John Macy. The preface of the book tells us that the purpose of the book is to give an account of the books of the world that are of greatest importance to living people. Other books and selections to be used in the course will be chosen on the basis of suitability eee Middle oO POND 282 and accessibility, and will be printed with the lesson work as it goes along. The Social Service Lessons this year have been on "Conduct Control problems relating to Child Health and Protection," based on "The White House Conference of 1930." History of the cooperative action in interest of children has been studied. Behavior problems typical of mental and physical growth have been discussed with the view in mind. Of helping the child to interpret the meanings and experiences that make up the world in which he lives. The main objective has been to have parents, especially mothers, appreciate and understand the many problems. That beset childhood with the thought in mind that anything that improves the individual will elevate the general level. The lessons the coming year will continue on the same general subject with emphasis on the physical and emotional growth. Habit formation, constructive use of time out of school, play and cooperation between home and school are some of the subjects to be discussed. Topics: 1. Facts on Physical Growth 2. Factors in Early Habit Formation. 3. The Sleep of Children. 4. Foods. And Eating Habits. 5. Affective Sex and Emotional Maturity. 6. Socialized Conduct. 7. Play and Play Facilities.  . Constructive use of out-of School Time. 9. Home and School. TEACHER, TOPICS The subject has been The Beatitudes. The Aim, "To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives." If each member has gleaned some beautiful thought and made it part of her life, the purpose of the lessons and visits to the home has been accomplished. The topics for the coming year I am sure are going to be equally delightful. 1. Great Objective of Life—Man is that he may have joy. 2. Importance and Purpose of Character Building. 3. Self Respect—To thine own self be true. 4, Self Effort Essential—''Cease to be Idle," etc. 5. Beware of Hypocrites — An Honest Man is the Noblest Work of God. Honest to Self, to Others. To God. 6. Patience—With self, to struggle, to meet disappointments, hope and wait patiently for results—Patience to suffer long and be kind. 7. Loyalty—To principles, to self, to home and family, to Government, to Church Institutions and to God. 8. Sympathy and Tolerance — Avoid destructive criticism. 9, Fear and Anger—How to avoid —Results. HOME AND CHURCH ETHICS MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY Member of the General Board O me there is nothing more beautiful and inspiring than to participate in a religious service where the members of the congregation are devoutly intent upon worship. I have often been distressed by the apparent lack of respect shown by many people for sacred things, and sacred places. While not making a plea for studied formality of any kind, and while believing in simplicity, I still feel that our Churches and Chapels which have been dedicated to the Lord for worship RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE should be regarded more sacredly. I maintain that a Church is a place for worship and meditation, for prayer and consecration, and not a place for visiting or for discussing personal affairs. I have occasionally been disturbed during Church service by people who seemed to have no thought of worship and no interest in the services, and I have wondered what benefit they received by attending. Is it possible that people are not suffciently interested, or that they are careless and thoughtless? Or is it possible that the general atmosphere of the churches does not inspire proper reverence and respect How unnecessary it is to discuss the weather or exchange confidences during a religious service, or to have children running about the chapels and playing here and there. Among the things which are conducive to the spirit of worship are an immaculately clean and well appointed chapel, a color scheme which is restful and harmonious throughout, comfortable seats free from dust and litter, a sacrament service that is scrupulously clean and the linen immaculate. It is also desirable that adequate provision be made for the washing of the hands as a last performance before breaking the bread. Appropriate music well performed or rendered during the sacrament service adds to the sacredness of the occasion. In one church that I know of beautiful organ music is played during the assembly of the congregation, which alone should inspire quiet and reverence. None but sacred music should be permitted during a sacred service and special effort should be made in choosing suitable music for all occasions. I have many times been inspired by a beautiful sermon, a 283 humble testimony, and even the blessing of a baby, only to have the spirit routed by a burst of inappropriate music—good and acceptable as it might have been at another time and in another place. Modern buildings are supposed to be sufficiently ventilated even though doors and windows are tightly closed. However, proper ventilation of our chapels is, I believe, a very important factor in the behavior of a congregation, for with a lack of good ventilation, an over-crowded condition and ° an over-supply of heat, people are apt to become uneasy and inattentive, so should we not open some windows and be refreshed? Important as are these pleasant physical surroundings which I have mentioned, even more important is the attitude and demeanor of those who make up the congregation. I firmly believe that Relief Society women who are the mothers of families could, if they would, greatly assist in improving our church decorum and in cultivating a spirit of reverence for churches and church surroundings. Our children should be taught that not only is the Chapel itself sacred, but the very ground upon which it stands, and that the steps approaching the chapel shall not be used as a playground while the congregation assembles and disperses. Too much cannot be said in commendation of the accomplishments of our Relief Society women and so I believe that along these lines we can and shall improve. For the privilege that is mine this day of meeting with you in another confreence, I am truly grateful, and I pray our Heavenly Father to bless us all according to our greatest needs, and I do it in the name of Jesus, Amen.  THE Spirit oF HELPFULNESS MRS. JENNIE B. KNIGHT Member of the General Board THIS is a wonderful time in which to live, so much to do, so much to remedy, so many opportunities to answer and _ challenge, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, ye have done it unto me." As we scan the pages of sacred and secular history we realize that it has taken a long and arduous struggle for humanity to come so far, and that periods of depression have come to communities and nations as they come to individuals. It is gratifying to women to learn that through their helpfulness humanity has marched steadily on, and in spite of darkest clouds, it has been given to them to see the silver lining. It is perhaps due to their inherent religious instinct that they have had faith to carry on, this fact alone should fill us with a determination to carry forward the torch of helpfulness handed to us by the torch bearers of the past. The sacred scriptures are replete with testimonies of God's goodness in removing obstacles for those who trust in Him. For our purpose let us consider the story of Ruth, and learn from it the true spirit of helpfulness. Read it and find lessons of faith, self-sacrifice and devotion, industry and appreciation. These principles intelligently adapted in our lives will make us worthy of our calling. We have something more to do than salve things over. We know how easy it is to be unselfish and self-sacrificing for our own, but today, so widespread is unemployment and human misery, that we must extend our sympathies, and summon all our courage to help lift the burden of fear under which _ parents now bring up their children, ease the despair of the aged, comfort the sick and sorrowing. In this crisis we must be patient, that others may be patient, not only with those who administer relief from whatever source, but also with the recipients. Let us be loyal in upholding Latter-day Saint ideals of family life. Let us spare all leaders the caustic tongue of criticism. We must not be discouraged, as we sow so Shall we reap. So may we be God's instrument that those we serve may say of us to Him: "When fell, Thy dreadful shadow and it seemed, That all was blackness, yet the silver gleamed. Beyond the clouds, and in the vanished years, I know these came to me at Thy commanding, Kindness, and love and understanding." Tur Lesson OF ADVERSITY MRS. CORA L. BENNION Member of the General Board THE moral and spiritual values that may be derived from adversity have been recognized by philosophical and religious writers of all historic peoples. The Old Testament records the fact that adversity was Jehovah's common method of bringing the Children of Israel to repentance. Adversity was also used as a test of faith and courage, as RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE indicated in the Proverb: "If thou faint in the day of adversity thy strength is small." This thought is elaborated in the Book of Job. The use of adversity as a discipline is set forth in the "prophecy of Moses," recorded in Deut., Chapter 28, and also in many other passages of the Old Testament. Socrates, the Ancient Greek philosopher and teacher, says, '""Remember there is nothing stable in human affairs; therefore avoid undue elation in prosperity, or undue depression in adversity." And Seneca, the Roman philosopher, is more emphatic in his recognition of the valules of adversity. He says, "We become wiser by adversity; prosperity destroys our appreciation of the right." He also says, "Gold is tried by fire, brave men by affliction." Similar thoughts are experssed by many other leading writers and thinkers. Think about life's experiences will readily see that spiritual and moral growth comes through meeting and overcoming difficulties. What would happen, then, if we had no difficulties to overcome? Difficulties call -out great qualities and make greatness possible. If there were no difficulties there would be very little success. If we would make the best of life, we must not seek the path of least resistance, but rather welcome the difficulties in our way. We should not be frightened by them nor discouraged because of them. They are our opportunities for winning success. Any one who stops to consider the matter will find that nearly all progress, all reform, all advancement in the affairs of the world, has come to the people who have had difficulties to overcome. What would Washington have been had there been no oppression of the colonies, or interference with their rights? Would we have had our federal constitution had there been no serious troubles in the thirteen states following the Revolutionary War? Would Lincoln have become the great American had there been no problems of slavery to overcome? The great and good of all ages have become such through overcoming adversity. This does not mean that we should seek adversity or help to create it, but quite to the contrary of this. Strength of character comes in warding it off, or overcoming it when it is upon us. It is said of Jesus, "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered." At the present time the world is passing through difficult experiences. How can we, as Relief Society workers, help to make these experiences prove a blessing? Will our faith in God grow stronger? Will we develop spirituality and learn more of the real values of life? Will we love our neighbor as ourselves? These are some of the lessons adversity should teach us. If we could learn that the gospel is a plan of life, of daily living, which should bring us joy each day by applying its principles in our lives, then we would banish much fear and doubt from our hearts. Our faith in God would take care of all future events, and we would be living harmonious, well balanced, happy lives.
RELIGION IN THE HOME MRS. ELISE B. ALDER Member of the General Board
It is a joy and a satisfaction to see so many here this morning. No doubt many of you have made sacrifice to come, with a desire to get 286 comfort and new inspiration to "carry on" in your homes, wards and stakes. The National Association of Real Estate Boards recently sought the best definition for home. The winning entry is quoted by courtesy of the Association: "Home is a domestic sanctuary, wrought out of desire, built into memory, where kindred bonds unite leisure, joys and sorrows." The home is one's fixed place of abode, and is too human to go smoothly all the time. Living together is not so simple a matter as some believe. Nowhere are people so frank and intimate as in their own home. Here the clash of differences in viewpoint and desires is bound to occur. They tell us such disturbances are growing pains of character making, but there is only one test for a home—Does it send out its members well trained to play the game of life? If not, no matter how orderly or comfortable it may be, it is a mere shell of a home. Home is the first and most important school in life, and religion should be the foundation of its education. Everything we want our Church to be, we must begin to teach in the home, our first aim being manhood and womanhood. But the greatest and most important lesson of all is to make the children know and feel the reign of God, and their nearness to Him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Let us check up on ourselves and see if in our homes we have the Gospel in all its fullness. It is the greatest thing in all the world. There is nothing to compare with it. It is the solver of all problems, and the solace of all ills. So often, when around my work at home, perhaps feeling a little discouraged, I can get renewed courage by repeating the words of President Charles W. Penrose, who spent 75 of his 93 years in studying, living, preaching and enjoying this Gospel of ours. He said: "The Church of Jesus Christ is a religion that satisfies every human need. It is the key to the boundless treasures of wisdom and knowledge, and he who becomes its possessor and expresses it in fullness is one with the Father and the Son in the glory of perfection. It cultivates all our powers and attributes which are everyone's right when put to their legitimate use, and shows us that intelligence is essential to salvation, and is the very glory of God. Old things pass away—all things become new. It teaches us how to live, and thus makes us ready to die." May we so live that when the sun of life has set, and our physical bodies have been laid away to rest, that our light will still shine upon the lives of those whom we have served and tried so hard to guide and influence, is my prayer. Amen.
THE GOSPEL OF CHEERFULNESS ROSANNAH C. IRVINE Member of the General Board
"It was only a glad 'Good morning,' as she passed along the way; But it spread the morning's glory over the live-long day." A smiling greeting often changes the aspect of the entire day for some lonely soul. Cheerfulness is an inward radiance. A cheery disposition is a gift, but if one hasn't it naturally, it can be acquired. Lightheartedness does not mean lightmindedness. Quite the contrary. Cheerfulness requires courage, gallantry,  faith. Nature is cheerful—laughing children, sunshine, singing birds, twinkling stars, rippling water, beautiful flowers gorgeous sunsets, peaceful mountains. Why should we be contrary? We have so much to be thankful for. I have a friend who keeps a very temperamental family in a state of harmony by unfailing cheerfulness. A laugh, a happy phrase, a gentle word changes dissension into peace, hysteria to joy. A few years ago her husband died. Once when I went to see her after his death I caught her unawares. I was startled by the agony in her eyes. In a moment she had controlled her emotions. To present a smiling front to the world is her idea of good breeding. She smiled bravely as she said, "I have much to be thankful for. Jim lived seven months after he was taken sick. We had many happy hours in that time. He didn't want to die in the winter. He prayed to live till spring. His prayer was answered." It is wonderful to be able to recognize blessings in adversity, to see the hand of God in storm, as well as in sunshine. We would be happier if we would accept the philosophy of the old lady who says she just loves weather, and that she is thankful for any kind.
MRS. ALICE D. MOYLE President Eastern States Mission Relief Society
MRS. ALICE D. MOYLE reported the details of the beautiful L. D. S. Church which has been erected in Washington, D. C. It was Sister Moyle's privilege to unveil the statue of the Angel Moroni, which surmounts the spire of this building. Mrs. Moyle has represented the Relief Society organization in the meetings of the Board of Directors and other gatherings of the National Council of Women. She gave some very interesting information of the Century of Progress—the World's Fair, to be held in Chicago this summer, and the part the National Council of Women will play in this. She urged the women of the Relief Society to continue their fine efforts in the signature campaign.
One of the most beautiful stories in literature is Browning's Pippa Passes. Pippa, a little factory girl, has only one holiday each year. Into that one day, made lovely by her own sweet spirit, she crowds enough happiness to sustain her throughout the year. At dawn she begins to enjoy her freedom. She must not waste a moment of her precious day. As she goes through the village streets she sings, and the people of Asolo who hear her song are made happier and better for her having passed by. This is her song:
"The year's at the spring And the day's at the morn; Morning's at seven; The hillside's dew pearled; The lark's on the wing; The snail's on the thorn; God's in his heaven— All's right with the world."
A life-time is just as a day. Every moment is precious. God has a big investment in His children. We are part of a great, wonderful plan. We must do our part well. In these depressing times a vital part is to carry our burdens blithely, and help our neighbor to carry on; to trust our Father, and remember that no matter how dreary and dark the way,—
"God's in his heaven — all's right with the world."