Summer's Grace Deonc R. Sutherland DEONE R. SUTHERLAND T' was one of those days when the hot noon sunlight overflowed and shimmered before our feet. Even with the hose running all day, the daisies wilted and the grass browned. The green vines reddened on the trellises before their time, and we sat in the windless air of our tired apple tree and dreamed of sudden frosts and faraway Alps where snow glimmcers above cooling clouds. Almy and I lifted our noses to the air. We slid down the tree with me first to guide Almy's feet. Through the screen door we could Page 18 see Mama moving back and forth in the kitchen. Marjorie came out the back door wiping her forehead. "She's baking a cake!" "A wiggily cake," we breathed. But Marjorie had gone to sit in the apple cellar. It was cool there, but Almy didn't like the spiders. Besides, Marjorie had a book, and if we fooled with the cider press or made a noise, it meant trouble. We crouched in the shade of the house. A wiggily cake rose four glorious layers high with sweet cream custard nestled between the white layers. I looked on Almy tenderly. Wer round brown cheeks and rosy mouth looked happy as she patted her own dirt cake together and frosted it with white dust. "Maud!" Mama's voice brought Almy and me racing to the back porch. In the kitchen the wiggily cake rose grandly above the cake plate with the silver leaves edging the frosting. Mama was busily tearing off wax paper and adjusting toothpicks. "Can I trust you to carry this ever so gently down to Mrs. Fanshawe's? She's sick today, and with nine children." Reluctantly we said goodbye to the wiggily cake. Almy's lip turned out. Her dark brows drew down SUMMER'S GRACE threateningly, but Mama _ never noticed. She was busy changing into a fresh apron and tidying the soft hair that clung to her cheeks. Mama's kiss was swift and sweet on my cheek. She lifted Almy for a kiss and a hug, though Almy weighed a ton. "Keep an eye on Almy,' Mama cautioned me confidently. I nodded reassuringly. When you were with Mama, you never minded giving away all the cakes in the world. It was only afterwards, while you were walking down the dusty road and the cake smelled and smelled in your hands that you minded. Almy begged for finger-licks at the edge. It was hard to give her some and not disturb the silver leaves. "They'll not notice,' I soothed my conscience, though Almy's hands showed traces of her own cake making. We minded most of all going up the dusty lane with the barefoot Fanshawe kids crowding in upon us, hungry eyes fastened on the towering cake. We had hungry eyes, too, I wanted to shout to them. Mary took the cake at the door. "Mamia's sick," she said shyly. "Yes, we know." "We'll bring back the plate," they shouted after us. It was a refrain we'd heard too many times. Our dog Jake came running crookedly to meet us. "Go away," I grumbled at his wild wagging. He was really one of Mr. Johnson's pups that he'd tried to drown, but Mama had caught him at it. Finally, Papa had held a private talk with Mr. Johnson. After all, Mama could take in only so many dogs and cats and all. Mr. Johnson agreed to go some place farther 19 away to dispose of stray animals than the canal dividing our property. "How is your wonderful Mother?" Mr. Clough's horse pranced in the road. We told him proudly how well Mother was. "She is a fine woman." Mr. Clough leaned over and looked at us sternly. We felt a thrill of pride for Mother, and a twinge of conscience for our own shortcomings. We would never grow up to feed every gypsy who came begging, or take in every Indian who knocked at the door, as Papa says Mama does. We turned in our yard, looking furtively over the hedge at the lawn. No, Mama's dark patchwork quilt was not stretched across the grass with a rumpled tramp resting in the shade while Mama's green pitcher of ice water tipped in his hand. FE circled the back yard. There was no wild hammering from the shed while Mama _ knocked something together for one of God's poor wild things to rest in while it recovered from some calamity that would have killed it for sure, if Mama hadn't stepped in. We opened the back door, and there eating bread and milk at the table and staring wildly at us with red-rimmed eyes sat a girl we'd never seen before. She clutched a gray shawl at her throat while the perspiration ran in rivulets into her eyes. "She doesn't speak a word of English, poor girl. Her cough is terrible, but we'll fix that." Mama was brewing herbs on the back of the stove. 'Don't stare, children; we'll have to fix the bed on the back porch." She looked pleadingly at us, for it was the only 20 cool place to sleep in the summer. Marjorie helped Mama _ change the bed. Almy and I went back to look at the girl. Papa stood in the doorway. "What's this, Edith? What's this?" He swung Almy to his shoulder, and I snuggled inside his arm. "T can't get her to let go of the shawl, John. No matter what I do, she hangs on so to it. It's so hot. You do something, can you, dear?" Papa put Almy down, and I lost my nest under his arm. He made a sweeping bow and held out his hand for the shawl. The girl's large bluc eves brightened, and she giggled, 'Ja,' and handed her shawl to Papa, who hung it gingerly on the hooks by the back door. "Wonderful," Mama said delightedly, while Papa wiped the dampness from her forehead and kissed both her eyes. "Where did she come from, Edith?" Papa washed industriously in the basin, "T thought I heard a knock, but no one was there. I felt something was wrong. Poor thing, she was going back through the field to the railroad track....' Mama lifted the yellow corn from the steaming kettle. "What if I had not found her... 2? Not a word of English." Papa sat down to the table, and we bowed our heads. "Where is this German girl on her way to, Edith?" Mother unrolled a crumpled envclope and paper from her pocket and handed it to Papa. "Mr. And Mrs. Herman Hergesheimer...." Papa laid down his work carefully. "Why, they sold out and moved away more than four months ago." Mama nodded gently. "No won der she's terrified. We'll have to trace them somehow for her." Papa leaned his head against his hand. "Couldn't someone else have found her, Edith?" Mama lifted her head. "She is our neighbor, John. We must help her." Papa groaned, "Sometimes I wish I were your neighbor!" AMA'S eyes widened and filled with tears which she quickly blinked away. Papa went around the table and put his arm around Mama, but she said everything was all nght and began to clear the table. It wasn't until we were cating Mama's bottled peaches for dessert that I remembered the fourlayer wiggily cake. "Wie heissen Sie?" Papa interrupted my thoughts. Anna barely had time to tell us her name before she doubled up in a spasm of coughing. "Marjorie and I can get her to bed," Mama said quictly. "You must get Dr. Williams, John. 'This is nO common cough." Dr. Williams responded to calls at our house with alacrky. Mama's hospitality included his favorite — homemade ice cream. But there was no dasher for us to lick on this visit. We crowded at the door while Dr. Williams peered into Anna's throat. "The membrane is there, all right." He washed his hands carefully in the basin while Mama got Anna back to bed. "Tl ride back into town for anttoxin for all of you." Dr. Willams pulled down his vest and struggled with his coat. He avoided Papa's eyes and turned to pick up his black bag. SUMMER'S GRACE "Antitoxin?" Mama said in the doorway. "That German girl you've befricnded " I'd never heard Dr. Williams speak so gruffly. Not even once when Almy swallowed a bottle of pills in his office, and he put his finger down her throat to bring them back. She'd hung on with her teeth worse than Jake with Mama's slipper. Dr. Williams cleared his throat again, "She's got diphtheria, Edith." Quarantine became stifling. Mama slipped in and out of Anna's room, but that part of the house was forbidden to the rest of us. Sometimes we sneaked into the parlor and pulled back the lace curtain and examined the back of the cardboard sign that kept everyone away. It seemed cven the road at the end of the lane was avoided, and after the glory palled, we spent hours pitying ourselves as outcasts. Having our shoulders stuck with necdles was of little moment if you couldn't describe the ordeal to anyone. "T want Mama," Almy began to cry on the lawn. Marjorie hushed her, and Almy rubbed her eyes and dozed off with her hand under her cheek. "She must be hot. See how red her face is," I said to Marjorie. Marjorie laid her hand against Almy's round forehead where her brown hair had dampened into funny points. Almy grumbled and moaned in her sleep and pulled a fat knee toward her chest. "You better get Mama, Maudie." I jumped up the steps two at a time and ran into the kitchen. The whole house smelled like sickness. Mama was standing by the cupboard, and she looked at me with 21 asmile. "The worst is over, Maud. Run and tell Papa. Anna just ate a whole bowl of soup." "Mama.' Her face was so tired and happy all together. "Mama, Marjorie wants you to come feel Almy. She's so hot, and all she wants to do is lic down." I couldn't stand to look at. Mama, the happiness died out so quickly. It was like flying, she went so fast to Almy. I was sent for Papa in the pasture. Papa ran all the way back with me behind. I could hear the breath in his throat like an accompaniment to the swoosh-thud of his high heavy shoes. HREE nights in a row Dr. Wilhams came out in his brand new Ford car. Once I caught a glimpse of Almy held high on a pillow, her face dark from coughing. We lay under the sheets listening. Sometimes Mama _ lay down beside Almy, and Papa would watch. But the coughing would get bad, and then they both would get up. "Edith, Edith," Dr. Williams would say gruffly. "You have to get some rest, or you'll die yourself." "I won't give her up,' Mama said. > Anna wore Mama's wrapper and worked in our kitchen. She made bread and fried strips of ham for breakfast. It was Anna who noticed the first flag at the end of the lane. It was a stick with a white rag tied to it. Marjorie and I brought back the basket beside it. That night we ate Mrs. Snell's best poundcake. Mama didn't want any dinner, but she took in the new rag doll to Almy. Almy smiled and went to sleep with it under her cheek. She 22 slept with that doll until she was better, and Papa had to burn everything. But it was that night when Mama hadn't felt like eating that she took sick with diphtheria. Anna helped, but Papa was like a scarecrow. His beard grew until it scared Almy and made her cry. 'Then he scraped it off with his ears cocked always toward Mama's room. The flag was there the next day and the next. One day we found a bundle of clean dish towels nicely embroidered, wrapped in brown paper; another, there were cookies in a shoe box and a bundle of clean rags. A little salt bag filled with dried apricots appeared, and often there were homemade loaves of bread and rolls. Once we found a new dressed chicken wrapped in many folds of newspaper. We carried it all home to Anna who accepted it and served it. Papa took in some of the gifts to Mama. <A newly made apron, a fresh blue nightgown. But Mama would turn her head away and the tears would come. "I've brought this on us all, John. It's my foolish doing...." Papa would close the door, but his voice carried through the transom above. "Nonsense. You were doing your Christian duty. Edith, Edith!" She had begun to choke. "My love, Edith. Heaven help us! My Edith!" We shut our doors and cried into the pillows. Almy was well enough to be carricd to the kitchen by Anna. Her brown cheeks seemed pale, and she scolded us when we didn't get things for her promptly. "She won't be so cross when she gets her full strength back," Papa promised us, so we spoiled her and fetched her things and listened for Mama. HE summer was almost over before they took down the sign. Dr. Williams sat by Mama on the back porch and took her pulse. Papa had missed much time in the fields, but the neighbors had hauled in the hay and harvested the wheat. "You've got to get interested in things again, Edith. Accept the miracle of Almy and you being alive, not to exclude Anna, also." The tears began to run down Mama's cheeks. She pulled her blanket about her knees. I broke off a hollyhock by the back step and fastened the skirt on a stick doll for Almy. "Crying's natural, Edith. You're still mighty weak. But the sooner you can accept what's in the past and begin living in the future, then the strength will come back." Anna brought Mama her warm milk. And Mama shook her head, crying silently all the while. Anna got a spoon and fed the milk to Mama. The wind was cold, and there was a spattering of orange leaves already on the lawn. In the dark I put my arms around Papa and held him when he came to kiss us good night. "When will things be the same as before, Papa?" I whispered to the dark. For a long time there was no sound in the room. 'Then Papa stirred on the edge of the bed. "I don't know, Maudie. Your Mama did a Christian deed, to her thinking, and the punishment exceeded all that a devil might imagine. She's lost touch with the rhythm of living, and we have to give her time, SUMMER'S GRACE I guess " He sighed and fell silent. I fell asleep before he left the room. Anna never did go to work for Herman Hergesheimer. "Nein, nein," she said vigorously. "Ich will bei ihr bleiben!" She would not leave Mama. Besides, there was Ludwig, Papa's hired man who was going to buy a small farm of his own. His cap was set for Anna, and if the time ever came when Mama didn't need her, she thought she would make do with Ludwig. But until that time came, he need not bother her. NNA made us aprons for school. Autumn was really here, then, and but one last day remained before the long wagon rides to school began. We walked around the yard feeling lonesome. Ludwig walked up to the back lawn and stretched out. We peered into his face. "Dosebleed...." he said, wiping at his face. We ran into the house and wet one of Mama's best dish towels. "Anna!" we shricked. Mama lay on the couch in the kitchen that Papa had fixed for her. '"Anna's gone into town for more goods for Marjorie's dress. What is it?" We told her about Ludwig and all the blood. She wrapped her shawl around her shoulders and followed us to the lawn. Ludwig looked very bloody and _ pitiful. "Give me the towel, Maud." Mama put the cold towel on his forehead and sent us to chip a piece of ice from the icebox. When we came back, Mama was scolding Ludwig. "So much blood, Ludwig. What is the cause of all this?" "It's bleeding from the heart maybe," said Ludwig. Mama gave him a sharp glance, and sent us in for more cloths though anyone could see the nosebleed was _ practically over. When we came back, Mama and Ludwig were talking about Anna. Mama kept saying, "But nobody told me a thing, not a thing." She invited Ludwig to dinner. "We'll have it late so you'll have plenty of time to go home and dress up." Ludwig smiled and smiled. "Tl make a wiggily cake for dinner,' Mama said as much to herself as to us. "You girls can do the fetching, and I'll do the stirring. That is," now she really looked at us, "if I haven't forgotten how." We smiled and smiled at her, just like Ludwig. <—>- Deone R. Sutherland, Idaho Falls, Idaho, has had the privilege of growing up in a home where emphasis was placed upon good literature and good education. "I was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, and my parents are Linnie Fisher Robinson, a lovely poet, and George Cecil Robinson. I graduated from the University of Utah and taught English a year in high school and two years in the department of English at the University of Utah. My first story sales occurred in my early teens to the Improvement Era, and Professor Quivey's page in The Salt Lake Tribune, where I won a monthly prize. I won first prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1957. Some of my serials in the Magazine have included 'Dear Conquest,' 'Green Willows,' 'Heart's Bounty, and 'Not to the Swift.' Besides Salt Lake, we have lived in Evanston, Illinois, and in San Francisco and Oakland, California, where I have been active in theater work and in Church activities. I am stake Relief Society literature class leader in the Hast Idaho Falls Stake at the present time. My husband is Dr. Harold Pratt Sutherland, in private practice in Idaho Falls. We have had four children, three of whom are living."