THE SABBATH DAY.

	I am sitting alone in my far off Savoia
home thinking of the many pleasant Sab-
baths spent in dear Utah my former home.
I do not think I can find a more suitable
subject than the Sabbath day. How many
of us appreciate this sacred day of rest.
Do we realize that God gave us this day
to rest and worship Him and He will hold
us accountable if we spend it otherwise
than He has commanded. Our children
should be taught to love the Sabbath from
their earliest infancy and when they are
older it is surely the mother's duty to
gather them around her and tell them of
God and his many mercies unto his children
on earth. If we will do this perhaps our
little girls and boys will be more willing to
heed the instructions of their Sunday-school
teachers. A mother's example and teach-
ing are more to most children than all
others may say or do. How many of us
who call ourselves saints spend the Sabbath
reading novels or in idle gossip and perhaps
at some sort of work. If mothers do this
can they think their sons and daughters
will grow up to love the Sabbath day and
keep it holy? We surely may expect them
to follow in our footsteps. Perhaps there
are some of us who spend this day in idle
dreaming and repining perchance even
wishing Sunday would not come so often.
Dear sisters should we not endeavor to pass
these few hours each week at meeting and
in reading God's holy books or in some way
that we might feel blest and know that our
heavenly Father approved of our actions?
Our prayers and thanks should ascend to
Him daily but on the Sabbath we should
let our thoughts be with him more especi-
ally. It is on this day our spiritual strength
is renewed and our hearts are comforted
that we might better accomplish the duties
and bear the trials of the following week
and if we are prayerful and seek Him when
health and happiness are ours we will not
be forgotten when sorrow is our portion,
and the angels will be with us pointing to
that HOME where dwelleth our Father, who
has forbidden us to break the Sabbath day.
MARY STUART.
Savoia New Mexico. Nov. 30, 1879.


