THOUGHTS ON THE NEW YEAR.

	The old year has past. The echo of its fare-
well bells has just died out. It has finished
up its record, and whether the contributors
who furnished the material for the great vol-
ume time has written during the year that is
gone, have done their work faithfully, or oth-
erwise, it is now too late to change it, review
it carefully as they may. The printed pages
are sterotyped in living characters forever, by
an invisible power, and the pictures engraven,
which illustrate the subjects, will remain bright
and pleasing, or sombre and gloomy, just as
the subtle polish which time carries in his 
relentless grasp has swept over their surface.
But though we cannot recall the past, nor 
live it over again, save in memory's sweet
musings, yet there is a new, bright page pre-
sented, whereon may be inscribed a better and
nobler record; interspersed here and there with 
charming pictures, which with rainbow hues
and violet tints may leave a trailing glory o'er
the pathway of the pilgrim, that others who
have not the same vivid conceptions of the 
beautiful and true, whose sketches are not so 
perfect, yet learning the same life-lessons,
treading the selfsame pathway, may be blessed
enlightened and encouraged. The same bless-
ings are not bestowed on all, else the Savior
had not said, "to one is given five talents, to
another two, and to another one;" but unto 
whom much is given, of him much will be re-
quired.
	Behold the dawning of another new year,
promising to the earth over which Father
Time holds his silent thraldom, seed time and
harvest. And though now cold winter en-
circles those who. occupy this part of the 
globe, and the snow, like a covering of pure,
white down, lies all around, and wraps, as it
were, its wintry mantle o'er the mountain
tops and valleys below, sprinkling it with 
pearls and diamonds of frost, and ornamenting
it with icicles, yet one looks hopefully towards
Spring, assured that it will come in pristine
loveliness, with sunny skies and soft, warm
breezes, and snow and ice will melt away, and 
the birds will come back to their nests and 
pour forth the rich melody of their sweetest
songs. And men will pursue their daily avoca-
tions, and season will follow season, and the 
days succeed each other, and over and over
again will each individual soul con the simple
but sublime lessons of life.
	Here, as it were upon the very threshold of 
the year, the earnest of a new life, it is meet
that all should consider not only the past, but
the future. Time need not be spent in mourn-
ing the old while hailing the new, but as one 
sees the shadows of the old year dying out,
growing more and more indistinct, fading in

[Column 2]
the distance, the impression it awakens seems
ever one of renewed determination for the fu-
ture. To the imaginative there is a knell of 
time that is as solemn as if it were real, when
the old year takes its farewell; echoing again 
and again the remembrances of the past.
	To some the New Year, whose dawn now
lights up the horizon, may be most auspicious,
gloriously painting the East in amber and
blue and rose, reflecting the glow of these beauti-
ful colors on all the vision the future presents
to view; but there are others on whom the 
New Year's dawn sheds no such radiance; to
them it may be a gloomy, dark morning, but
if one little beam of light shows them the duty
nearest, let them take courage and struggle on,
there is light beyond, the clouds will disappear
by and by. There are promises for all given by
Him whose words never fail. Then, whether
trials press heavily or prosperity beams bright-
ly, each one should do the duty of to day,
which always brings a peaceful consciousness
to the soul.
	In the new year, whose merry bells seem
echoing through the very air, we trust there
may be great progress in good, in the promul-
gation of the principles of truth, here and in
every land. Our wish is that the Saints might
be more earnest, more dutiful, more watchful,
more devoted to the cause they have espoused
than they have hitherto been. That home
improvements of every kind  may-be greatly
increased, and practical work energetically and 
successfully carried on, that Zion may begin
to throw off the fetters which now trammel
her people, and become more independent by
making whatever is needed for home consump-
tion. That the work of education may be
zealously advanced in the right direction; that
the children of Zion may be taught in all that 
will prepare them for the great work of the 
"last days." For the Saints know that there
is a heavy responsibility resting upon them,
and that each succeeeding year is bringing 
them nearer to the great final dissolution of all
things that can be shaken; that the prepara-
tion for the advent of the Messiah, devolves
upon them, and when He comes whose right
it is to reign, that there may be a few wise vir-
gins with oil in their lamps, ready to go out to 
meet Him, and then will the new era be ush-
ered in, spoken of by the prophet, "Behold, I
make all things new."
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


