MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	On the morning of Dec. 1, I went to Ogden
City, and during two weeks spent in Weber
Co. met once in joint session of the four
branches of the Relief Society in that place.
	Accompanied by Pres. J. S. Richards and her
Stake Counselors, H. Brown and S. Herrick,
alternately, I visited the branches of the R. S.
in North Ogden, Plain City, Lynn, Marriott
and Harrisville; in Riverdale met with the
Primary Association, and found it in a flourish-
ing condition, under the presidency of Sister
Bingham and counselors, In Uintah we met
with the Relief Society, also organized a Pri-
mary Association.
	A good spirit was manifest in all of our meet-
ings, and one interesting feature in particular
I wish to mention—the brethren, many of
them, attended with the sisters, manifesting,
not only by their presence, which we highly
appreciated, but also by expressions, that they
fully realized that "the man is not without the
woman, nor the woman without the man in
the Lord," and that all were working for mu-
tual interest.
	At the close of each meeting we returned to
Ogden for the night, where, in two evenings, I
was the honored recipient of the most gratify-
ing and truly most interesting of all surprises.
The first was given by Sister Odell, her coun-
selors and members of the 3d Ward Primary
As[-]ociation; the other by Sister Josephine
West, her counselors and members of the P.
A. of the 2d Ward, Ogden City.
	You are familiar with the size of Sister Jane


Richards' parlor—just imagine, if youp loss
yourself seated near the stove, poring over Dr.
Ridgeway's book entitled "The Lord's Land,"
when on a sudden the door opened and sixty
boys and girls entered, greeting you with
"Good evening," and after having been closely
packed, under the direction of their respective
presidents, joined their sweet voices in singing
choice selections of hymns and songs. This
was followed by a variety of exercises, recita-
tions, answering questions, etc., and listening
with rapt attention to addresses from adults
present.
	The presence of these joyous faces, bright
eyes and expressive, intelligent countenances,
was thrilling in effect, and their ready answers
when interrogated gave evidence of rapid im-
provement. I never shall forget those two
evenings.
	I think that of all the meetings I attended
in Weber Co., the joiut assemblage of the four
Primary Associations of Ogden City on Satur-
day afternoon, the 13th ult., was the crowning
one. It seemed a nation in embryo—a multi-
tude of germs, under efficient, loving training,
for future noble manhood and womanhood—
the embodiment of purity and happiness—the
promise of a mighty generation. I cannot ex-
press the feelings of my heart, standing before
that congregation of little folks. The scene,
to be appreciated, must be witnessed.
	E. R. S.


