PHILANTHROPY.

	How beautiful is philanthropy! and how
sublime must be the emotions of those rare
souls who are willing to do and to suffer all
things for the sake of their fellow-creatures!
But what shall we say of those who cant
about philanthropy solely to cover up their
gross selfishness, and who pursue their own
evil ends under pretense of serving others?
	Were it not that they contrive to be very
much in the way of better people, we could
afford to pass them in silence, as be-
neath contempt; but since the young and
unsophisticated in Zion need to be set on
their guard, we must honor a certain class
of persons with some discussion.
	I cannot better illustrate the case under
consideration than by giving the substance
of a conversation between a lady friend of
mine and several of the self-styled Liberals
of Utah. This lady is a real business char-
acter, having mastered one or two regular
professions. Having had business transac-
tions with all classes of people, having had
personal experience in many of the artificial
as well as the natural disabilities of woman,
she was quite prepared to arrive at a just
estimate of the value of the flimsy pre-
tensions of those who come from a distance
to espouse the cause of "the down-trodden
women of Utah."
	These gentlemen themselves urged, the
conversation, as if they hoped to convince
her that she was "downtrodden" and in
need of their kind sympathies and kinder
services.
	"You must know, Mrs." (I will say)
"Smith, it is the duty of every freeman,
not only to enjoy our free institutions in his
own person, but to help others to enjoy
them even by resisting oppressors, as we
gave liberty to the negroes by fighting their
masters. You know polygamy is the other
twin, and because its slaves are all women
only makes it the nobler to espouse their
cause."
	Mrs. S. "Then that is the mission of you
Liberals to Utah—to champion the ladies?"
	Liberal. "Yes; although they are the
majority, the male minority have every-
thing their own way; and since that is
contrary to both the spirit and the letter of
Republican laws, it must be stopped. Why,
they have even legislated away the widow's
right of dower."
	Mrs. S. "Yes, I know they have; but
they have enacted better Iaws instead."
	Liberal. "Nay, Madam, how can that be
called a better law which divides inheri-
tance in a man's estate equally between his
lawful children and a set of hangers-on who
can claim only an unlawful relationship with
him?"
	Mrs. S. "What, in the name of justice,
would you have?"
	Liberal. "We would have a man's only
true and lawful wife enjoy her just right to
one-third of his estate, and the rest to go
to her children, their father's only true and
lawful heirs.
	Mrs. S. "Ah, yes; you would debar from
inheritance all later wives and children.
That sounds liberal with a vengeance; for
nobody can deny that one child is as closely
related to its father as another, not to men-
tion the status you would give their moth-
ers. And besides, that wretched dowry
law, I take it, was originally only a lame
compromise with conscience, by which men
sought to justify themselves for robbing
their wives of all that was justly theirs as
long as they, the husbands, lived, merely
by giving back part of it at death. And
the other two-thirds of the joint estate the
law gives to the man's own relatives—fail-

[Column 2]
ing children of his own—if it all originally
belonged to the woman. That, you see, is
very kind—to men. But the law of inher-
itance of ours, with which you find so much
fault, refers to the fathers individual pro-
perty, and does not involve, at a man's
death, any property of which individual
wives may be absolute owners in their own
right; such right as few women elsewhere
enjoy."
	Liberal. "That is all a chimera about wo-
men holding property of their own. If
they had any at first, their husbands would
contrive to pass it all into their own pockets
sooner or later."
	Mrs. S. "So you judge; but I could, if I
chose, find documentary proof that men's
several wives do hold their own property
secure from even testamentary disposal by
their husbands; and I also know that the
husbands wish it so for the further security
of their younger groups of children. But
what else would you have in the interest of
reform?"
	Liberal. "We would have repealed or
annulled those farcial election laws by
which a man polls his own vote and—say
half a dozen others, by letting his so-called
wives drop them into the box for him."
	Mrs. S. "You seem to hold a foregone
conclusion that they always vote according
to his wishes and not their own."
	Liberal. "That is plain upon the very
face of things, for the Mormons seldom
have more than one candidate in the field,
so that there is no room for individual
choice; and then as long as a woman calls a
man her husband. it is really her bounden
Christian duty to obey him. So this law
giving women the ballot is just a counter-
part of that in the South which gave a
slave-holder an extra vote for every so-many
slaves— thus compelling the poor slaves to
assist in riveting their own fetters;—with
this difference, the Mormon slaveholders
get an additional vote for every one. We
would curtail the evil by taking away all
these extra votes."
	Mrs. S. "Oh, you would curtail the power
of the men by taking away the suffrage
from the women, on your bare assumption
that they do not please themselves as well
as their husbands in their voting. You
would take away from them the great boon
for which the women in the States, whence
you came, have been anxiously and vainly
striving for half a lifetime—a boon which
the men of Utah, of their own free will,
conferred upon their slaves, as you politely
term them; and you restore the puerile
right of dower by taking away from women
the right to own property in their own
name; you would subjugate the majority
(women) to the minority (men) because
they are married; you would brand large
numbers of women and their children with
disgrace, and relieve their husbands and
fathers of all responsibility for them, be-
cause you choose to say they are not mar-
ried—and all this you would do in the
name of protection for women! Why don't
you show your liberal minds by giving your
own mothers, sisters and wives those privi-
leges which they so much desire, instead of
seeking to take away ours?"
	Liberal. "In our opinion it would be an
injury rather than a benefit to women to
drag them down from their heights of pu-
rity to mingle in the filthy pool of politics."
	Mrs. S. "Then your opinion is to be their
law? Your seem to forget that the negroes
would still be slaves, had the opinions of
their masters retained that degree of po-
tency. You believe it wrong for negroes
to obey white people, but right for women
to obey men; and yet because you fear the

[Column 3]
women of Utah obey too well, you wish to
deprive them of the means of indepen-
dence which their husbands have put into
their hands; and you would contrive to
prevent a man from acknowledging all his
children and honoring all his wives even in
his will."
	Liberal. "But you persist in classing, all
the women as wives, when many of them
are only living in open shame. We wish,
for woman's own sake, to get laws not
only passed, but enforced, to put a stop to
this wholesale moral degradation of wo-
men."
	Mrs. S. "And dare you talk to us of mor-
als and degradation, when right under the
stars and stripes men have passed laws, and
are still seeking for more laws, to license
the ruin of women body and soul by men?
To register by name and number, and keep
under most inhuman 'regulations' the vic-
tims of men's most atrocious crime, while
screening, justifying and leaving at full lib-
erty the perpetrators. If this is not 'drag-
ging women down from their heights of
purity' and 'treading them down' in the
mire do not tell me what would be. And
yet, in view of these things and your own
outspoken sentiments, you come here wish-
ing to hurl large numbers of now respected
women into the same reeking pit, and call
yourselves champions of women! Do you
think we are blind?"
	Liberal. "My dear Mrs. Smith, you are
too severe on us personally. We did not
pass those laws, nor even help to do it;
can you thus hold us responsible personally
for measures which men, perhaps wiser than
we, have deemed advisable? We are here
now, and is it not right for us to do all we
can to correct existing evils?"
	Mrs. S "I do hold you responsible for
what your 'wiser' men have done and are
still doing. I venture the assertion that
not one of you ever voted against those
measures; you express yourselves opposed
to allowing women to vote against them for
themselves, because you rightly call them
'filthy;' But you have these burning pits
of destruction yawning wide at home, and
come here to [--]form institutions which are
not evil when judged by the standard of
their moral effects on society, but only in
the code of your opinions. We Mormon
women know a few things for ourselves,
and so far as we are concerned, your re-
formers have cordial leave to retire.'
	I would they might, in every individual
instance, meet with such prompt unmask-
ing; and if they must be missionaries, let
them continue to send Bibles to the heath-
en as the least harm they can do. But it
would be better far to give their women at
home justice, and befriend the hundreds,
nay thousands, of depraved vagabond chil-
dren roaming the streets of their monog-
amic cities.
							L. L. D.


WE take pleasure in announcing the mar-
riage of our young relative, O. F. Whitney,
Bishop of the 18th Ward of this city, to Miss
Zina Smoot, an interesting and intelligent
young lady, daughter of Mayor A. O. Smoot of
Provo. The marriage ceremony was performed
in this city,  Thursday, Dec. 18, 1879, by Pres
D. H. Wells.  We extend our most fervent
congratulations to the young couple, who are
now fairly launched on the sea of matrimony,
and hope their voyage over life's sea may be a
pleasant and prosperous one; and that their
life may prove rich in all the experiences that
tend to the full est development of the heart's
affections, and the highest happiness here
and hereafter.


