OPENING OF FIRTH-COLLEGE.
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
	It is most refreshing to hear of public
benefactions from those who abound in the
wealth of  this  world.  A  Commoner of
England, Mr. Mark Firth, of Sheffield, four
years ago gave a large tract of land for a
spacious park, for the enjoyment, the health,
and the amusement of the good people of
Sheffield, and which was opened in due
form  by  the  Prince  of  Wales  in person
	The same gentleman  has  since  given
land, upon which he has had built a college
for the higher education  of  both boys and
girls. - "It has cost £20,000, and in addition
to that sum  Mr.  Firth  has  given £5,000
towards 'the endowment  fund. Nearly
£15,000 has been raised to found scholar-
ships, and it is believed that the endow-
ment fund will soon reach £25,000. There
have been 4,000 students under the univer-
sity extension scheme since its foundation
in Sheffield, and 550  certificates have  been
granted to local students, one-half of these
being first class.  The gift of Firth College
will be of the greatest value as a help to
the spread of university education, for its
free lecture and class rooms will relieve
those interested in higher education from
the financial burden of providing suitable
accommodation.  The college is part of a
block of buildings, offices of the Sheffield
School Board, who have built, in the same
range of buildings as the Firth College and
their own offices, very fine central schools
for boys and girls, and these are designed
to give to the picked pupils from other
schools a higher and, possibly, a technical
education.  The whole of the principasl ed-
ucational machinery of the town is conse-
quently located in one range of buildings,
of which First College is the chief feature.
The principal of the college is Mr. A. T.
Bentley, recently  Fielden  Lecturer at
Owens-College, Manchester."
	"Men who with great wealth at their dis-
posal, elect to spend it in mere sumptuous-
ness and luxury, are repaid, indeed by ad-
miration from certain persons and of a cer-
tain kind.  But how far richer is the re-
ward of those who, after spending what is
needed to maintain with dignity their place
in society, devote the remainder towards
furthering the happiness of their fellow-
men! Far-off generations shall rise up and
call such men blessed, and the names they
leave behind them shall be ranked with
such names as those of Peabody in London,
of Owens at Manchester, of Mason at Bir-
mingham, of Firth at Sheffield.  There will
naturally be the intellectual benefits which
invariably attend the progress of learning,
philosophy, and general culture, the open-
ing out of new realms of thought and of
pleasure which the ignorant cannot know.
But another, and as it seems to me, an
equally valuable effect of that culture, is to
make us shrink from and hate all that is
vulgar and false, and to prefer pure and
simple pleasures, such as are open to all and
can never be exhausted by any, to ostenta-
tion, vanity, and self-indulgence. Such, I
venture to think must have been Mr. Firth's
feeling when he presented your town with
a park before presenting it with a college.
He must have desired above all things to
give the children who are compelled in this
busy city to pass many hours each day
amidst dark and gloomy surroundings an
opportunity of learning from nature those
lessons which are the rightful inheritance
of childhood, and without which no man
can be said to have had his fair chance in
the world.  Let it never be said, then, that
it is necessary in any city for children to
forego these innocent pleasures."
	A mighty mass of people were congre-
gated to see the opneing of the college, es-
pecially as it was announced that Prince
Leopold would open it.  Prince Leopold is a
very modest, retiring young man.  He
seems to have started out young in life to
do good; it is said he desires to enter the
church. He has feeble health, and this may
have been the cause of his meditative and
serious turn of mind: he made a feeling
and suitable address, a few words of which
I quote:
	"It is impossible for me not to feel how
small is the part which I have been called
upon to play in the work which has re-
ceived  consummation  to-day, compared
with the labors of those who have fostered
and watched over its progress from the com-
mencement.  But at the same time it is an
undeniable pleasure to me to have been as-
sociated even in a slight  degree with this
great work of Mr. Firth's.  I have already
to-day had occasion in another place to
make some allusion to Mr. Firth's claims on
our good wishes and affectionate sympathy,
and I shall perhaps best consult his feelings
by not entering in his presence on any elab-
orate eulogium on his good deeds.  I have
already visited this morning the alms-
houses which he has built, and I look for-
ward this afternoon to visiting in his com-
pany the park which he has laid out.  In
the former place I saw him surrounded by
the aged folk whose declining years are
being soothed and made happy by his con-
siderate forethought—and when I see scat-
tered throughout the park men, women
and children who, by this gift, are enabled
to escape from the close atmosphere of the
town and all the temptations of a great
city, to breathe awhile purer air, and to in-
dulge in harmless recreation, I shall more
fully realize the inward joy which he must
experience.  If our good wishes can in how-
ever small a degree add to this well-earned
you of his, I beg to assure Mr. Firth, both
on your part and on my own, that we most
cordially and heartily tender them to him."

****
At the close of his address he put down
$5,000 as his donation to the college fund,
paid out of his own private income.  This
seems to me to be most exemplary, and
worthy of all imitation, especially by the 
young. This young Prince has been reared
in luxury, that to the uninitiated would
appear almost fabulous; yet he voluntarily
opnes his eyes and takes a common sense
view of life as it is—past, present and to
come.  Instead of spending his wealth in
folly, or worse, he bequeaths it to noble in-
stitutions, that will benefit mankind and
produce a mighty progression.  I must now
give a few words from the great benefactor,
Mark Firth.
	"Mr. Mark Firt, who was received with
loud cheers, said: May it please your Royal
Highness—The object contemplated in the
erection of the college which your Royal
Highness has graciously consented to open-
this day, is to provide in a systematic and
permanent form certain educational means
and facilities for promoting the intellectual,
moral and social elevation of the inhabitants
of this town.  A great want, too, has been
a public building with the requisite means
and appliances for the work to be done.
Impressed deeply with this want, I have
thought I could not more serviceably appro-
priate a portion of that wealth which, by
the blessing of Almighty God, I have been
privileged to acquire, than by erecting and
presenting to my native town the building
in which they are now assembled as a local
habitation for the college.  It has given me
very great pleasure to do this.  The build-
ing comprises lecture hall, class rooms,
rooms for lectures and other needful accom-
modation, with the necessary fittings, for
a complete system of education such as
has been just indicated.  It has already been
legally settled on trust for the use of the
inhabitants of this town and neighborhood
for ever.  I desire personally to thank your
Royal Highness for the honor of your pres-
ence on this the occasion of its opening,
and all the more because of the deep inter-
est your Royal Highness is known to take
in the objects to which it is henceforth to
be devoted; and I now beg respectfully to
place in the hands of your Royal Highness
the deed of gift of this building, with the
earnest prayer that it may be the means of
helping forward in some degree for ages
to come the great work of a large and ever-
advancing education in this our town of
Sheffield."
	At a future time I would like to make
another extract from the Prince's address,
as his views are liberal and extended.  He
pointedly, speaking of the young taking
degrees in the college, says, "Will proceed
to take his or her degree with honor," &c.,
and adds, "I say designedly his or her de-
gree, for your college is open equally to
girls as to boys."  This sounds well from
the mouth of an influential Prince, and that
Prince a young man.


FOREFATHERS' Day was duly celebrate[-] in
the city of Boston with ladies in attendance.
This i[-] as it should be; the Woman's Journal
says when foremothers have their share in the
title of the day, women will have their share
in its exercises.
	MRS. Belva Lockwood of Washington, a
lady of talent and education, who distinguished
herself by gaining admission to practice before
the Supreme Court of the United States, has
now been admitted to practice in the U. S.
Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
	SMALL boy to his mamma: "I do pity poo[-]
Mr. Brown, 'cause he has no wi[-]e to split his
wood for him."


