NOTES AND NEWS

	THE Manchester election, England, Nov.
14, run six unsectarian candidates—five, in-
cluding Miss Bec[-]er, being members of the


expiring board, and one working men's
candidate. The whole six were returned,
Miss Becker receiving the largest number
of votes except one. Votes polled for Miss
Becker, 22,692; Mr. Briley, Chairman of
the Board, 25,171.

	IN Leeds the Liberal party had eight can-
didates; only three were elected; one of
these was Mrs. Buckton.

	MANCHESTER National Society for Wo-
men's Suffrage held their general annual
meeting in Manchester, Nov. 12; Alder-
man Bennett presiding. Among those
mentioned as occupying the platform were
Members of Parliament, Reverends, and
celebrated women workers. In the remarks
given in the "Woman's Suffrage Journal"
of their speeches, considerable is said of a
deputation to wait upon the Chancelor of
the Exchequer and the Prime Minister.
They have tried bringing in the question
by Members of Parliament, and now they
mean Government shall take the responsi-
bility.

	IT is proposed that a Memorial to Her
Majesty's Government shall be presented in
the early part of next year, from women
who possess the statutory qualification for a
vote, praying that they may be enfranchised
before the general election. The following
is suggested as the form of this Memo-
rial:—

	"That the Memorialists respectfully sub-
mit that they are entitled to the Parlia-
mentary franchise on the same grounds of
expediency and justice as those on which
they have been admitted to the municipal
franchises.
	"That the experience of the action of
women in the discharge of the trusts of the
municipal vote warrants their claim to be-
come Parliamentary voters.
	"That they therefore submit their claim
to be admitted on the conditions that have
been approved by experience, and they re-
spectfully urge that they should be enfran-
chised before another general election, so
that in consulting the judgment of the na-
tion their wishes and opinions might be
heard, and allowed their due weight if[-]
questions affecting their interest and well
being as taxpayers and subjects of the
Crown."
	It is intended that a deputation of ladies
shall be appointed to present the Memorial
in person soon after the opening of Parlia-
ment. Ladies who are owners or occupiers
of property which would entitle them to
the Parliamentary vote, and who desire to
sign the Memorial, are requested to com-
municate with Miss Becker, 28 Jackson's
Row, Albert Square, Manchester.—"Wo-
man's Suffrage Journal."


