ADDRESS TO THE CLOSING YEAR.

Ah! drifting time, thou stayest not,
	But ever swiftly passeth by;
Our prayers, our tears, thou heedest not,
	While noiseless thou dost onward fly.
Unerring time! thy hand doth trace
	Alike all good or evil done;
Thy work can never be effaced,
	For thou dost never backward turn.

Another year! how swiftly flown,
	O precious portion of our time!
How rapid roll the waves along,
	To that unknown unchanging clime.
How like the meteor's flashing light,
	Have been our dreams of earthly bliss;
How dare we hope for days more bright,
	More blest than we have known in this.

Ah! glorious visions of the mind,
	How soon, alas! ye disappear;
Each glowing tint and vivid line
	Fade with the closing, dying year.
A joy, a sorrow, smile and sigh
	Are ours, while yet we linger here;
So hath it been in days gone by,
	So will it be the coming year.

But hope will not forsake us now,
	It hath a mission more benign;
We sigh our requiem to the year,
	We bid farewell to '79.
Another song with joy we chant,
	To usher in the new-born year;
Sweet hope is ours, and heartfelt thanks
	We'll raise to Him who guards us here.

We greet with faith the year just born;
	Though cares and conflicts it may bring,
With trustful prayer we'll still hope on,
	And welcome now the "New Year" in.
And oh! we ask that this may prove
	the happiest, best our earth has known;
That greater knowledge be diffused,
	And less of wrong and evil done.

May Gospel truth o'er land and sea
	An influence give ne'er known before,
Pale Superstition, Bigot [---]
	Fall powerless, to rise no more;
May Temperance hold a mighty sway,
	Its banners wave from shore to shore;
Millions, made glad, shout victory's song—
	The reign of "Demon Drink" is o'er.

Echoed on all the wings of heaves.
	Borne out on every breeze that blows;
From the bright-glowing zone of fire,
	To the far circle of the snows;
Let the glad song roll round the spheres.
	'Till it shall reach the Golden age,
Where Truth shall reign "a thousand years,"*
	With nought to blacken freedom's page.

