HOME AFFAIRS.

	WHEAT storers, take notice.  It is stated on
good authority  that  elder  leaves  scattered
among grain will preserve it from that destruc-
tive little pest, the weevil.
	THE Quarterly Conference of this Stake of
Zion will commence in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall (New Tabernacle) Jan. 3d, and 4th, at 10,
A. M. and 2, P. M. of each day.  The sisters
should consider  it  a  duty and a privilege to
attend these Conferences and not let any little
thing hinder them.
	THE Special Election was held Dec. 27, and
we are sorry to state that the voting was light,
owing of course to no opposition, and the peo-
ple consequently negligent; but every woman
who values her citizenship and the right of
suffrage should have proved it by voting for so
valiant a champion of woman's cause as C.
W. Penrose.  Thanks,  Bro. Penrose, you de-
serve the ladies' votes.
	THERE will also be a meeting held on F[-]iday
evening Jan. 3d, at 7 o'clock of all the various
Societies in this Stake.  The Relief Society the
Young People's Mutual Improv[-]ment Associa-
tions the Primary  Associations  the  Sunday
School Union will all be  represented by  those
acquainted  with  and interested  in those or-
ganizations.
	This is an oppertunity which should be duly
appreciated by the workers  in  these association
for the public weal and welfare of the Saints.
It is to be hoped the sisters will [--]ke a good
representation in numbers and that [--]e[-]e will
be no lack of speakers to report  th[-]  present
condition and future prospects of th[-]se home
missionary labors.
	OWING to a vacancy in the Territorial Leg-
islature, occasioned by the dem[-]se of Hon. A.
P. Rockwood, His Excellency, Governor Emery
issued a proclamation for a special election  to
be held in all the precincts of Salt Lake Co.
to elect a man for member from said County to
fill the vacancy.  Accordingly, a meeting of


the County Central Committee was called and
convened at the City Hall, Dec. 13, and it was
there decided to call a Mass Convention of
registered voters of the People's Ticket, to be
held in the Court House, Dec. 20, to nominate
a man to the position in the Legislature caused
by the death of a member after the general
election.
 The Mass Convention was held in the Court
House Dec. 20, at 12 M.,  and A. H. Raleigh
elected Chairman, Aurelius  Miner, Secretary,
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Assistant Secretary.  Pres.
Angus  M.  Cannon  opened the Convention
with prayer.  A motion was then made that
the Chair nominate a committee of seven on
nomination. The Chairman nominated as a
committee Z.  Snow,  A,  M.  Cannon,  T.  E.
Taylor,  J.  S. Rawlins,  C. W.  Stayner,  C. W.
Wilkin,  A. Gardner, but forgot the ladies, who,
it should be  remembered, form an important
element in this community, as whoever is
elected will have a majority of women's votes.
But by courtesy of Theo.  McKean, Esq.,  a
motion was made to increase the committee to
nine and include the ladies.  Accordingly, the
Chairman nominated M. Isabella  Horne and
Zina D. Young, and they were elected mem-
bers of the Committee.  After the Committee
retired speeches were made by several gentle-
men present, who all spoke in the highest terms
of praise of the character and labors of the de-
ceased  member, Hon. A. P. Rockwood.  Mrs.
S. M. Kimball  being called upon made  a  few
appropriate remarks.  Some of the gentlemen
spoke very generously of women, and one in
particular said he was in favor of a bill remov-
ing all the political disabilities of woman.
Such men women will vote for, and the gen-
tleman who uttered these sentiments was the
nominee. The Committee returned the name
of Charles W. Penrose.  After the preliminary
proceedings the report was adopted, the con-
vention was adjourned  sine die.  Closed with
prayer by John T. Caine, Esq.


