REMARKS OF PRES. JOSEPH SMITH

	At a business meeting in Nauvoo as published;
in the "Times and Seasons" Nauvoo, Ill.
* * * * * *
	"Were I going to prophecy, I would say the
end will not come in 1844, 5, or 6, or 40 years,—
there are those of the rising generation who
shall not taste death till Christ comes.
	I was once praying earnestly upon this sub-
ject, and a voice said unto me, "My son, if
thou livest until thou art eighty five years of
age, thou shalt see the face of the Son of Man.'[-]
I was left to draw my own conclusions con-
cerning this, and I took the liberty to conclude
that if I did live to that time he would make
his appearance; but I do not say whether he
will make his appearance, or I shall go where
he is. I prophesy in the name of the Lord God;
and let it be written, the Son of Man will not
came in the clouds of Heaven, till I am eighty-
five years old—then read the 14th chapter of
Revelations 6 and 7 verses; 'And I saw another
angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting gospel to preach unto them that
dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and
kindred, and tongue and people, saying with a


loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him,
for the hour of his judgment is come: and
Hosea, 6th chapter,—after 2 days, &c.., 2520
years which brings it to 1890. The coming of
the Son of Man never can be,till the judgments
spoken of, for this hour are poured out, which
judgments are commenced. Paul says. "Ye are
the children of the light, and not of the dark-
ness, that that day should overtake you as a
thief in the night; it is not the design of the
Almighty to come upon the earth and crush it
and grind it to powder, bnt he will reveal it to
his servants the Prophets.
	Judah must return. Jerusalem must be re-
built, and the Temple, and water come out
from under the Temple, and the waters of the
Dead Sea be healed. It will take some time to
build the walls of the city and the Temple, &c.,
and all this must be done before the Son of
Man will make his appearance. There will be
wars and rumors of wars, signs in the heavens
above, and on the earth beneath, the sun turned
into darkness, and the moon to blood, earth-
quakes in divers places, the seas heaving be-
yond their bounds; then will appear one grand
sign of the Son of Man in heaven: but what
will the world do? They will say it is a planet,
a comet, &c.; but the Son of Man will come as
the sign of the coming of the Son of Man,
which will be as the light of the morning
cometh out of the east.
	Choir sung a hymn.
	Prayer by W. W. Phelps.


