IN MEMORIAM.

Darling Winnie! she sleeps not in the tomb,
And though we miss her sadly, yet we know
She lives, where flow'rs immortal ever bloom,
And were there's no more sorrow, pain or woe.

	Our little granddaughter, Winnifred Isabel
died of infantile consumption at 15 minutes to
3 o'clock P. M. Dec. 25, 1879, (Christmas day)
in this city. Little Winnie as she was af-
f[-]ctionately called was the daughter of Major
W. W. and Mrs. M. C. B. Woods and was born
Oct. 16, 1875. She was a very beautiful child and
more especially endeared to her parents and
relatives on account of her ext emely delicate
health. Her death was not anticipated at the
time, and it was very sad to have it transpire
on the day when all the little ones are unusually
joyful. Her own little stocking had been hung


up Christmas eve with those of her little
brothers and sisters and was filled with the
choicest things of all. No child could be more
tenderly beloved. But the little darling is
now at rest. She has gone where loving friends
will welcome her pure spirit, gone to her home
with the angels, and in this bereavement let
those who mourn remember the precious words
of the blessed Savior,
	"Suffer little children to come unto me and
forbid them not for of such is the kingdom of
heaven."

"Whom the gods love die young."

	DIED, in the 9th Ward of this city, at 2
o'clock  P. M., Monday, Dec. 29, 1879,
of paralysis of the heart Grace Whitney
Groo, aged 13 years, 10 months, and
19 days. Deceased was the beloved daughter
of Isaac and Mary Jane Whitney Groo, and
was born in the 18th Ward of this City, Feb.
10, 1866. She was also the granddaughter of
Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney, by whom she
was greatly beloved, and to whom her death is
a most severe affliction, as well as to her own
parents. Grace was a very general favorite
with her relatives and friends. In the ward
where she has resided since her babyhood, she
was very greatly beloved. She was indeed a very
lovely girl, early developed into womanhood.
No one could look upon her without realizing
she was old beyond her years, she possessed
many amiable qualities of heart, and her mind
and judgment were like that of a mature wo-
man. It is sad indeed to part with our loved
ones, but when we lay them away pure we
know that their salvation is secured, and that
they have escaped the many cares, trials, sor-
rows and heartaches of this life. Grace was
aware that death was inevitable, and sent for
her young companions and bade them a loving
farewell; and to her father and mother she
said: "You have nothing to regret, you have
done all for me that you could. Goodbye, I
shall soon be at rest." She has gone to join
the many relatives and friends of the family
with a host of Saints behind the vail. May
God, in His infinite mercy and goodness, bless
the bereaved ones and console them as He alone
can.


