PAST AND PRESENT.

	Once a spring day, the 25th of March,
crowned the year. The stern winter had
passed, with its cold, dreary days, its icicles
had melted and were seen no more, the
brooks had burst their icy bands, and once
more danced, laughing musically, upon
their way; the first birds of Spring had
made their appearance, caroling their notes
of joy; the lovely, hardy flowers peeped
up in the woodlands; the sun shone warm,
and all nature rejoiced in the glad holiday.
Spring and the New Year were one.

	Time sped on—a change was proposed.
Men thought about it, talked about it,
made the time fly backward, and the 1st of

[Column 2]
January, 1716, was proclaimed New Year's
day.
	Them the New Year's peal rang out upon
the frosty air, while the beautiful bright
stars burned in the depths above. Since
then, snow, frost and ice have held domin-
ion, and locked the New York in their
freezing embrace; the sun has looked down
coldly from his far-away throne; no flowers
grace the landscape, for, kissed by frosty
lips, they blackened and died; birds have
sung us an adieu and flown to fairer climes;
the winds are chill, and in their wild, rush-
ing notes sing the requiem of the year;
pendant icicles hang from the houses, but
warmth, and light, and glee are within;
hearts beat happily, and cold is defied; gifts
are many; flying feet beat time to merry
music, and New Year's Day is as gay now
as when, in the olden time, the winds of
March heralded its approach. This is the
New Year as it was, and as it is.

	To-night time is passing with its noise-
less step, bringing the finale of another
year—the end of this small period of time,
that has brought to some sorrow and to
some gladness. How many hearts are at
this moment beating with some bitter sor-
row, spoken or unspoken? And how many
at this time are filled with bright anticipa-
tions of the future, reveling in its fancied
blissfulness, while the present is filled with
sweet happiness?

	The coming year, whose approach is so
near, glides silently upon us, waking no
sleeper, and known to none but sleepless
watchers, as they keep their vigils in honor
of its coming. They, they alone welcome
the invisible as its fresh young breath is
felt, and feel that the old year has passed
with the last stroke of "the knell of time."
That knell heralds the new comer. Un-
seen, the New Year has taken the place of
the old, and we are one year nearer the end
of time, one year nearer the end of our ex-
istence, and one year nearer the coming of
Christ. What will it bring to us, joy or
grief, pleasure or pain? We have not
power to gaze into futurity and know what
awaits us. If we knew the bitter we would
have to drink, we would shrink from the
draught ere it touched our lips. When un-
known sorrows come upon us, an unseen,
mighty power buoys up the spirit and en-
ables us to pass through trials, that if we
had known they had to be endured, would
have embittered our existence. Anticipat-
ed happiness loses the keen edge of enjoy-
ment, because the mind has overdrawn the
picture, and the reality is less than the
ideal.

	The dark moments speed on, the morn-
ing comes, and the cold air resounds with
Happy New Years.

	May this be a Happy New Year to one
and all, old and young, married and single,
youth and maiden, parents and children.

