OBITUARIES.

	DIED. At Peterson, Morgan County, on
Sunday, Dec. 7, 1879, Mrs. Mary A. Rock-
wood Card, wife of Brother Card. Decessed
was born Oct. 14th, 1847, at Winter Quarters,
on the Missouri River, Iowa. She was a
daughter of the late well known and highly
respected Hon. A. P. Rockwood. Her resi-
dence was chiefly in this city, where she
formed a large circle of friends, who will re-
member her life and character as that of a pure,
true Christian. She was an active advocate of
the home industries, giving special attention
to sericulture, in which she was very success-
ful. About a year ago she was married, and
want to reside with her husband at his home
in Peterson. Among the inhabitants of that
place she at once became a general favorite, by
reason of her amiable and loving disposition,
her devotion to her religion, and her great de-
sire and energetic efforts to inculcate the prin-
ciples of truth into the hearts of the young.
	When news of the death of her late lament-
ed father reached her, she was herself in a pre-
carious condition of health, and totally unfitted
for the reception of such sad intelligence; and
from that moment she knew no real rest until
the time of her own demise. Her death oc-
curred about four o'clock P. M., after the pre-
mature birth of a pair of twin boys, both of
which also died during the pangs which their


[Column 1]
mother suffered. It seems a mournful thing
to chronicle the death of a young woman so
useful and so well-beloved. And we can but
offer our sincere sympathy to the near friends
and relatives of this sister and co-laborer of the
Saints of God. Especially do we oondole with
the affectionate and doubly-bereaved husband,
and ask for him that consolation which only
comes through faith in the divine Comforter.
During her last moments Sister Mary Ann was
asked if she had any message which she would
like to leave for any absent friend. She replied,
"Tell ALL my friends for me, good bye and
God bless them."
	Salt Lake City.				LULA.

	DIED, at Scipio, Millard Co., Oct. 4, after a
severe illness of Typhoid fever, Emily Frances,
beloved daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth
Yates, aged eleven years, eight months, and
eleven days. She was a good, obedient child,
and well beloved by all who knew her.

	Also, at Scipio, Millard Co., Nov. 10, of Ty-
phoid Pneumonia, after a few days illness,
Mary Peterson Oleson, beloved wife of J. P.
Oleson. She was a true Latter-day Saint and
an active worker in the Relief Society. She
leaves a widowed mother, a husband and three
small children to mourn her early departure
Sister Oleson being only thirty-one years of
age.
	At the same place, Dec. 14, of consumption,
in the thirty-eignth year of her age, Ellen
Beecroft. Her death is a severe blow to her
husband and aged father, whom she leaves,
with five small children to mourn her loss,
her death being quite unexpected. It has cast
a gloom over our settlement.
								E. Y.

"An angel in the Book of Life
	Wrote down an infant's birth,
But added, ere he closed the page,
	Too beautiful for earth."

	DIED, at Pleasant Green, Salt Lake Co., Nov.
5, Louisa Cutcliffe Auer, infant daughter of
Ulrich and Mary Jane Spencer Auer, born in
Salt Lake city, May 25, 1878. She was a very
lovely child, and her parents, brothers, sisters
and friends deeply mourn her loss. We extend
to them our heartfelt sympathies, for we know
how hard it is to lay away our loved ones in
the cold and silent grave, yet the assurance of
meeting them gives true consolation to the
Latter-day Saint.

	DIED, at Toquerville, Dec. 11, 1879, of in-
flammation of the brain, Sarah Ann Spilsbury,
wife of Alma P. Spilsbury, of Toquerville,
Kane Co., Utah. Deceased was born in Mill
Creek Ward, Salt Lake Co., Feb. 27, 1853.

