BY B. F. C., JR.

	The present is an age whose greatest men
are leaving the beaten paths of centuries
and pioneering new ones; refusing to be
bound up in the dogmas of others, they
choose rather to think for themselves.
	Notably is this true in respect to the re-
ligious views of the greatest men and wo-
men of the present century. It is the rule
rather than the exception to see them par-
tially, or entirely, cast off all sectarian fet-
ters and denominational relations.
	In Europe, Fraude and Hugo in litera-
ture, Strauss in music, Bismarck and Dis-
aaeli among statesmen, represent this ad-
vance beyond the narrow limits of sectari-
anism, while in our own country we have
Wendall Phillips, America's classic orator,
Ralph Waldo Emerson, her sage, philoso-
pher, poet and moralist, Charlotte Cushman,
her greatest tragedienne, a woman of supe-
rior intellect, who are all pre-eminent rep-
resentatives of progress in religious free-
thinking.
	Our very short list might be extended al-
most endlessly, and the farther we investi-
gate this subject, the clearer shall we see
that the so-called Christianity of to-day, as
a system of religion, is a signal failure, and
not at all adapted to the wants of the mor

[Column 2]
advanced, who are casting it aside, as farm-
ers have the wooden plow, deeming it alto-
gether too primitive, unphilosophical and
inconsistent with itself and known truths,
to be of any value. Recognizing this state
of things, Strauss coolly proposes to substi-
tute mnsic for religion; to devote the time
and money now given to religion to the
musical culture of the masses. He claims,
and with some plausibility, that such a
course would polish, elevate and ref[-]ue the
masses, and in this respect at least would
be superior to many of the religions of the
day.
	These great men and women, who thus
repudiate so-called Christianity, are not all
atheists by any means. Most all of them
believe in the inspiration and revelation of
Scripture, but they look in vain for a theolo-
gy which they can conscientiously adopt.
	Charles Dickens was one of these. In a
volume of his letters, written to a great
variety of persons, lately published, his
views upon religious matters are quite
plainly indicated, and to the charges so
often made that his religious notions were
extremely loose, some of these letters give
sufficient answer. No man hated cant
more, and he frequently held it up to ridi-
cule. To some one who wrote to him that
he was injuring the cause of religion by his
picture of the shepherd, in "Pickwick", he
wrote:
	"The design of "the Shepherd," and of
this and every other ailusion to him, is to
show how sacred things are degraded, vul-
garized and rendered absurd when persons
who are utterly incompetent to teach the
commonest things take upon themselves to
expound such mysteries, and how, in mak-
ing mere cant phrases of divine words,
these persons miss the spirit in which they
had their origin. I have seen a great deal
of this sort of thing in many parts of Eng-
land, and I never knew it to lead to charity
or good deeds.
	"Whether the great Creator of the world
and the creature of his hands, moulded in
his own image, be quite so opposite in
character as you believe, is a question which
it would profit us little to discuss. I like
the frankness and candor of your letter and
thank you for it. That every man who
seeks heaven must be born again, in good
thoughts of his Maker, I sincerely believe.
That it is expedient for every hound to say
so in a certain snuffling form of words, to
which he attaches no good meaning, I do
not believe."
	He had but little respect for the Church,
or, rather, many of those who professed to
expound the religion of the meek and lowly
Savior. He writes:
	"As to the Church, my friend, I am sick
of it. The spectacle presented by the in-
decent squabbles of priests of most denomi-
nations, and the exemplary unfairness and
rancor with which they conduct their differ-
ences, utterly repel me. And the idea of
the Protestant establishment, in the face of
its own history, seeking to trample out dis-
cussion and private judgment, is an enor-
mity so cool, that I wonder the right rever-
ends, very reverends, and all other rever-
ends, who commit it, can look in one an-
other's faces without laughing, as the old
soothsayers did. Perhaps they can't and
don't. How our sublime and so-different
Christian religion is to be administered in
the future I cannot pretend to say, but that
the Church's hand is at its own throat I am
fully convinced. Here more Popery, there
more Methodism—as many forms of con-
signment to eternal damnation as there are
articles, and all in one forever quarrelling
body—the Master of the New Testament

[Column 3]
put out of sight, and the rage and fury al-
most always turning on the letter of ob-
scure parts of the Old Testament, which it-
self has been the subject of accommodation,
adaptation, varying interpretation without
end—these things cannot last. The Church
that is to have its part in the coming time
must be a more Christian one, with less ar-
bitrary pretensions and a stronger hold upon
the mantle of our Savior, as he walked and
talked upon this earth."
	The last clause may be termed a prophe-
cy. Here we have written by his own
hand, a statement of his religious views,
and, though they may subject him to the
accusation of infidelity, the time is not far
distant when the most advanced minds up-
on the earth will honor him for his senti-
ments of detestation towards the hypocrisy,
cant, quarrels, contention, division and con-
fusion which the so-called Christian  world
presented to his view.
	The time has been when "the Church"
held sway over the intellects as well as the
armies of the world, but thanks be to the
Most High that time is fast passing away,
and an era is approaching in which the in-
tellectual, wise and learned, as well as the
humble and unlearned, shall find the truth
as it has been revealed from heaven in these
last days, notwithstanding the efforts of
"the Church" and its priests to distort and
c[-]ush it out.


