	PONENT.

	Seated in my room (many hundreds of
miles away from the friend through whose
kindness I have the pleasure of reading
your paper,) I ask of you the privilege and
pleasure of talking (through my pen) about
the children—and if it may seem an intru-
sion let my interest in, and my work
among them be my only excuse. I am one
of those who say—God bless the children—
all over this broad land to night.
	I often think many parents do not cor-
rectly estimate, and appreciate the responsi-
bility resting upon them. That it is a high
and holy office to have these little ones
under their charge, to teach, to lead, to
direct them in high and holy lives.
	Do they stop to think that children con-
tinually hunger for new ideas, that a parent
can give so much better than any one else?
That they will listen and learn with pleas-
ure from the lips of a parent, what would
be thought drudgery to study in books; and
even if they should have the misfortune to
be deprived of many educational advantages,
yet they will grow up intelligent people.
	So many times we meet parents that are
the life of every company which they enter,
but in the company of their own children
in their own homes, are dull, uninteresting
and unsocial. This is wrong. Parents
bring your sweetest smiles, your loving
words, your activity, your depth and
strength of thought and purpose in among,
your children: enter into their joys and sor-
rows, their hopes and fears. Let them feel


you are deeply interested in them; that
you love them dearly; that it is your high-
est ambition to make them happy; that
you are working and praying for their
present and future good.
	Fill your homes with good reading,
music and sweet song, innocent games, and
every thing that will interest, amuse and
instruct them. A silent home, no smiles,
no loving words, no sports, is a dull place
for the young, and one from which they
will gladly escape as soon as they can.
Sentout into the world before habits are form-
ed; sent out before principles of right are
fixed; sent out because home was not made
attractive enough to keep them. Many a
wrecked life can look back, and echo these
words; while many a grand true man, many
a sweet fine woman, looks back to child-
hood's hours, to childhood's home, and says
(deep from the heart) God I thank thee for
my parents and early home, for they and
God have made me what I am.
	Let the parents awake and enter more
deeply, more faithfully, more earnestly into
this great work, and many in the last great
day will arise and call you blessed."
	Again; I say, God bless the children.
