	MARY E ASHWORTH.

	At the instnace of Sister Lunt, President
of the Relief Society of Parowan Stake the
Relief Society of Cedar City met in the
Social Hall Dec, 2,1879, at 2 P. M. to accept
the resignation of President Sarah Uric on
account of her arduous labors in attending
to the sick, quite a fair representation of
sisters were present who were favored with
the presence of Pres. Henry Lunt Bishop
C. J. Arthur and Eldes R. W. Heyborne.
After the usual exercises Pres. Lunt made
a few opening remarks and called on Bishop
Arthur to state the object of the meeting,
which he did and on his motion, Sister
Sarah Uric President with her Counselors
Mary Anne Lunt and Sage T. Jones were
released, with a vote of thanks for their
past labors. A reorganization was then
effected with the following sisters as officers,
Sage T. Jones, President; Marion B. Arthur
and Eiizabeth A. Evans, Counselors; Jane
P. Mackelprang Secretary and Marion, B.
Arthur Treasurer.
	The Bishop then addressed the sisters on
the necessity of being united in all their
movements, referred to the great channel
there is for doing good and assisting the
Bishop of the Ward in looking after the
poor etc. Pres. H. Lunt encouraged the
sisters in their labors imploring them to so
order their lives that the Spirit of the Lord
might prompt them in every duty, he could
see a bright future for the Relief Society of
this Ward, predicted the speedy downfall
of Babylon and showed the necessity of the
sisters leading out in home industry and
above all to strive to sustain the brethren
in the establishment of home industries, to
set examples before their daughters worthy
of imitation, also encouraged them in the
raising of silk. The sisters that had been
snstained in the various positions were then
set apart under the hands of Pres. H. Lunt
and Bp. Arthur. Pres. Ellen Lunt testified
to the good spirit that was in our midst,
felt she could sustain the selection of officers
made this day by the brethren and blessed
the former President and Counselors for
their faithful labors. Elder Heyborne ad-
dressed the sisters on the necessity of seeing
to the recording of the Genealogies of their
families in the Church Record. Sister
Sarah Uric expressed her thankfulness for 

[Column 2]

the kind release extended to her and asked
for the faith and prayers of the sisters in
her labors among the sick. A good spirit
and feeling prevailed throughout the meet-
ing which was dismissed with Benediction.
	I would also here state that a Stake organ-
ization of the Relief Society in the Parowan
Stake of Zion was effected at the Stake Con-
ference held in Parowan Sept. 27 and 28th,
with Sister Ellen Lunt as President, Mary
Anne Lunt of Cedar City, and Huldah D.
Mitchell of Parowan, Counselors, and Sister
Sarah Chatterley, Stake Secretary.
