A Dear Old Soul Sarah B. Moody While summering at the sea-side in Santa Monica, my sisterin-law entertained weekly with beach picnics and other pleasant diversions. A constant guest on these occasions was Mrs. 'Palister, an old lady of over eighty years.; "Is she some relative?" I asked of my sister-in-law. "Oh, no,' she answered. "We always have her because? well?because we love her." In the weeks that followed I began to realize why she was beloved. She seemed unconscious of self and was always looking out for the joy of others. She was jolly, sympathetic, enjoyed everything keenly, and had so much charm that I asked her one day, "How have you managed to keep so sweet and lovely for such long years, even though you have survived all those dearest to you?" "Oh!" she laughed, "I thought that all out forty years ago and decided that when people became old they were either called 'A disagreeable old thing' or "A dear old soul,' and I made up my mind, let come what may, I would try to be 'A dear old soul.' "How did you go about to accomplish it?" was my next question., "Well, of course, I knew that I could not attain sweetness at a leap and a bound, but that it must be a steady growth, and so I thought out the qualities that made one lovable, and strove every day, no matter what trials came, to make them a part of life. My battle has been on for the last forty years, but I cannot tell you what it has meant to me," she answered. I had a number of subsequent talks with her and always got inspiration from her calm, sweet. Life. Some time later I met another ?Dear old soul," whose life seemed a benediction to all about her. I loved to slip away from duty now and then to spend an hour at her side. Somehow it gave me a renewal of courage and of faith, which was imparted by the strength and sweetness of her life. One day she told me the following story. "At forty-five my position of honor and prominence was filled by a younger woman. It was because of my ill health they said, but the awful fear that haunted me was, 'Age is ever thrust aside and out of the way.' Hawthorne's words came to me again and again: 'Time has now given me all the flowers, and the next 128 work of his never-idle fingers must be to steal them one by one away.' "One day when my thoughts ran thus I took some faded narcissus from my dining room table and threw them into the yard, and replaced them with fresh ones. 'Such is life,' I sighed. Half an hour later I entered the closed room and found it full of the perfume of the fresh flowers. A thought rushed home?as the new flowers give more fragrance to the room, so does young life give service that old life cannot give. "A joyful call greeted me from the door. I found a neighbor's little child there holding up the faded narcissus. 'May I play with them?' he asked. I saw another smile?the faded flowers give joy to a little child. There is still service for the aging life to give. "I thought about this for several days, and finally fixed the following thought for a guide?youth and love and activity have all been mine, but why waste the golden hours of noontide longing for the return of the dewy freshness of morning? Henceforth I shall not compare my life disadvantageously with youth, but will compare it with the woman of eighty and say, 'How many golden years I have to love and serve and achieve before I become that age." " Both of these "Dear old souls" have gone peacefully home, and neither guessed what a beacon her life had been to me. In my efforts to become "A dear old soul" I have asked many people the question, ""What do you love most in-old people?" and from their answers I have formed the following creed. If one would live truly in her later years? She must have an abiding faith in the goodness of God. Happy is she who can calmly trust and bravely endure. She must struggle for the best in life, then accept what the kind Father sends, feeling that it is for her greatest development. She must hold fast to the choice gifts she has gleaned through the years, but still keep her mind and heart open to see and enjoy the precious gifts of today. She must continue to do some good solid reading, such as good current-event magazines, history, good literature, religious books, and poetry. Aged minds sometimes grow feeble from want of use. She must mingle with young people, talk with them, and try to see their point of view; show an interest in what they are interested in. It will bring sweetness, understanding, sympathy. She must keep up her personal appearance by giving due attention to her clothing, her complexion, her hair, her figure. Old ladies can have charm as well as young ones. But she must be natural, and not imagine she can fool the world into thinking
she is twenty years younger by the excessive use of powder, rouge, hair dye, and gay clothing. People do not love and admire an artificial old lady. She must not think that she should be forgiven a lot of peevishness and selfishness because she is old. There has been such a thing as wearing out the love of one's own children. Be lovable if you would be beloved.