The Land of Scott and Burns. By Alice Louise Reynolds
Last time we left our readers in Glasgow, the commercial city of Scotland, the city that suggests immense activity in shipbuilding; for it was from this region that the first ship sailed into European waters. Yet Glasgow is more than a commercial city, for its cathedral, over which the glamor of romance has been thrown by Sir Walter Scott, and the University on the hill, tell of a city where business and culture are combined to good advantage,
We took a side trip from Glasgow to Paisley, where we were reminded of the shawls of our mothers and of our grandmothers, and where we discovered the place J. And P. Coats spool thread is made. We also sought out the old Abbey, founded in 1160, and in its dim light and musty air looked upon the tombs of early Scottish kings.
From Paisley we drove back to Glasgow, and from thence directly to the Trossachs. Much has been written about the Trossachs, that country where the yellow gorse and purple heather weave a carpet of. ' many colors across the Scottish moors.
Between four and five o'clock in the afternoon we arrived at Loch Lomond, where "The wee birdies sing and the wild flowers spring, And in sunshine the waters are sleeping." Yes, all this and more is visible to the senses of one who stands on the bonnie, bonnie banks of Loch Lomond. It is the largest lake in Great Britain. It is twenty-two miles in length, but the winding course taken by the steamers, that ply its waters, adds to its length from three to eight miles. In width it ranges from a mile to six miles. No one looking into these Scotch mountain lakes can fail to notice how perfectly the waters mirror their surroundings. Wordsworth, the poet, had this thought in mind, when he wrote of St. Mary's lake, a Scotch lake not far from Lomond and Loch Katrine.
"Through her depths St. Mary's Lake Is visibly delighted; For not a feature of those hills Is in the mirror slighted."
We remained that night at the Ardlien Hotel. As the season was nearly over, there were few guests beside ourselves, yet there was no lack of entertainment, for as we sat at our even-
ing meal we looked out upon the Loch around whose lovely waters nature had thrown a girdle of green, and over which Ben Lomond, the most majestic of all the mountains of the lake country, casts its shadow.
The next morning we continued our drive through this region, passing banks of heather and sometimes a lovely waterfall. At every turn we felt the aptness of Scott's famous lines:
"The briar rose fell in streamers green, And creeping shrubs of thousand dyes, Waved in the west winds summer sighs."
On we drove until finally we reached Loch Katrine, with its banks of verdure, from which open-eyed flowers looked upon an enchanted scene. Loch Katrine is about eight miles long and three quarters of a mile broad, with Ben Venue, 2,386 feet high, on its south and Ben Aan, 1,800 feet high, on its north. Once again we turn to Scott for a description:
"High on the south, huge Ben Venue Down on the lake in masses threw Crags, knolls and mounds.
* 
o 
* 
* Ok While on the south through middle air, Ben-Aan heaved high his forehead bare."
A short distance on the little steamers that bear such attractive names as Sir Walter Scott and the Lady of the Lake, brought us in close contact with Ellen's Isle. It was the good fortune of our party to go over the lake twice, as we had to go back to our car. On the opposite bank from us stood motor 
cars and coaches, drawn by horses, in waiting to take the tourists who had crossed the lake to other points of interest. These coaches, unique in their decorations, and in the custumes worn by their drivers, lend color to the scene.
From the Trossachs we drove to Sterling, so long the abode of Scottish kings. There in its bleak, grey castle its monarch lived fretted with border wars and civil strife. 'Sterling Castle," like the "Tower of London," suggests some loathsome political murders; but it suggests more to the readers of the "Lady of the Lake," for it was here that Sir Walter Scott's poem reaches its fine climax. The Castle was probably a Roman fortress, as well as the royal residence of the Kings of Scotland. Within its walls were
born James II, James IV, and James V, and it was the scene of the coronation of James V, of Mary, Queen of Scots, and James VI. We found nothing about Sterling Castle as attractive as the scene from the battlements, a field of well kept farms. In former days, Mary Queen of Scots and the Ladies of the Court looked out upon this lovely field, at the gay tournaments of the knights. Indeed the place appeared to be so ideal, for the purpose, that it seemed well nigh impossible to believe that castle and armor are a thing of the past; and equally impossible to resist peopling it with knights in armor; bearing in their hands long lances, and wearing upon their heads bright helmets with gay colors. One sees in the walls of the battlements two holes, one
marked M. R. 1561 from which Queen Mary was wont to watch the scenes below, and the other known as Queen Victoria's Look Out, the place from which Queen Victoria and Prince Albert admired the scenery, in 1842. The time of the year at which our party saw it, it resembled a checker-board of green and yellow, fit sight for any queen.
The other object of special interest at Sterling, is the Wallace Monument, a tall, round tower of stone, built on a prominence opposite Sterling Castle. The Wallace Monument is commemorative of the victory, known as the Battle of Sterling Bridge, which the Scottish patriot achieved over the English Army, in 1297. The most interesting relic in the tower is the Wallace sword. As we climbed from floor to floor over a distance that Miss Elliott, my traveling companion, says made us all leg-weary, we noted on one landing an exhibit of the portraits of distinguished Scotchmen. It reminded us of the staircases, in the Massachusetts Building, at the Panama Pacific Exhibition, in 1915; we wondered as we saw the exhibit of great men, from that state, whether there is really any opportunity, for - any other state, in the Union to distinguish itself in a similar manner; and so as we read the names of Scotchmen of note, about the tower, we thought of the story told of one of the sons of Caledonia, 
who visited London and who on his return to his native land was asked what he thought of the Englishmen. His reply was he did not know; he saw none of them, as he had only visited the government officers.
As we left the Wallace Monument we made our way to the field of Bannockburn, where a patriotic scotchman did his best to show us the course of the field., We realized once again how truly Burns had been the mouthpiece of his nation when he wrote:
"Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled, Scots wham Bruce has aften led, Welcome to your gory bed, Or to victory.
Now's the day and now's the hour, See the front o' battle lour; See approach proud Edward's power, Chains and slavery.
Wha would be a traitor knave? Wha would fill a cowards grave? Wha sae base as be a slave? Let him turn and flee!"
Before leaving Sterling we wish to say a word about the Golden Lion, the hotel where we chanced to stay over night. Close to our room was a room marked Burns' room. We inquired why, and were told that Robert Burns had occupied the room in 1787, and that he had scratched the following poem upon the window, with his diamond ring. The room is room 22. We do not know whether the authenticity of the poem would be contested or not, but we do know that everything about the poem is characteristic of Burns, so we include it:
"Here Stuarts once in glory reigned, And laws for Scotland's weal ordained, But now unroofed their palace stands, Their sceptre's swayed by other hands; Fallen indeed, and to the earth Whence groveling reptiles take their birth The-injured Stuart line is gone, A race outlandish fills their throne, An idiot race to honor lost, Who knows them best despise them most."
On being told that such a poem would affect his prospects of advancement, he took the diamond ring and wrote the following:
"Rash mortal, and, slanderous poet thy name; Shall no longer appear in the records of Fame; Dost not know that old Mansfield, who writes like the Bible, Says the more 'tis a truth sir the more 'tis a libel?"
* We are now on the last stretch of the road, we are leaving
Sterling for Edinburgh, thirty-six miles distant. Soon we shall be to the Firth of Forth, when we shall have gone across country from the Clyde to the Forth. You will recall that at New Galloway we met a lady who said she thought she should chose Edinburgh above all other cities to live in, and that she thinks she is most fortunate in being able to live there. In our next article we shall seek to discover how well founded her reasons are, and also we shall try to learn why Robert Louis Stevenson called it ""Auld Reekie," and why many have refered to it in these later days as "the modern Athens."
In closing this article, we wish to emphasize that while Burns and Scott lead the procession of those who have heightened all the charms of their native land, with the poet's immortal touch: yet in Scotland there are many song writers who have preserved its traditions and revealed its great beauty. Scotland has proved irresistible to the maker of verse, and her song writers have flooded the land with melody. Yesterday we stood looking at a French village painted by the great master Carot. We marveled at it. That which Carot has done for the French village, Scotland's poets have done for Scotland.