Reference Books on Parliamentary Practice
' Answering the request of some of our Relief Society officers for reference books on parliamentary practice, we submit the following as being good:
What Every Club Women Ought to Know, a new, simple, and satisfying little book on parliamentary law, which will enable any woman to conduct or participate in organization meetings;?by Anna Steese Richardson, director of the Woman's Home Companion, published by the Crowell Publishing Company, New York, N. Y., price 10c.
Parliamentary Practice, an introduction to Parliamentary Law, by General Henry M. Robert, published by the Century Company, New York, N. Y., price $1. 2. Parliamentary Practice is a brief introduction to parliamentary law. It gives in concrete form the best parliamentary rules for conducting an ordinary meeting. It not only gives the rules to be followed, but shows how it is worked out in actual practice. It would be an excellent book for beginners to study.
Practical Lessons in Parliamentary Procedure, by Mary. Redfield Plummer, price $1.00. This little book is based on Robert's Rules of Order, and accepted authority, is simple and clear in statement, logically arranged and presented. There are fifteen 
lessons in all, given in a most concise and practical manner. Mrs. Plummer's book has many recommendations for use by prominent education and club women.
An accompanying book called Ready References on Principal Parliamentary Points is a little indexed handbook which answers any mooted question in parliamentary procedure. The price of this is also $1.00. Both these books are valuable aids to the conduct of an organization from opening to adjournment. They may be purchased from the author, 878 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois, or from Mrs. P. J. Adams, 270 West, 2nd South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The following is quoted from Parliamentary Practice:
Among the established rules and customs which constitute parliamentary law are the following elementary ones that every one should know:
(1) Only one question can be considered at a time. It must be put in the form of a proposition or motion, to be proposed or moved by one member and seconded by another, and must then be stated by the presiding officer, after which it is open to debate and amendment.
(2) No one can make a motion or speak in debate until he has risen and addressed the presiding officer by his proper title and has been "recognized" by him and thus has "obtained the floor."
(3) No one can speak unreasonably long (over ten minutes in ordinary societies), or more than twice on the same question on the same day, without permission of the assembly.
(4) No member can speak a second time on the same question, provided anyone desires to speak who has not spoken on that question.
(5) No one in speaking can address his remarks to another member or use another member's name when it can be avoided, but his remarks must be addressed to the presiding officer.
(6) When a question is once before the assembly it must be adopted or rejected by a vote, or be disposed of in some other way, before any other subject can be introduced except certain ones entitled to this privilege and which are therefore called privileged questions.
Jennie B. Knight, Annie W. Cannon, Julia A. Child.
The General Presidency and board members of the Relief Society, wish to express their thanks and appreciation for the many good wishes for the new year, sent to them from the different stakes and missions.