Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart
Questions: What can be used to clean nickel?
If nickel is washed frequently with hot soapsuds and polished with a dry cloth, it can be kept in good condition. When special attention is needed, a paste of ammonia with whiting may be used. Commercially prepared silver polishes are also good. Avoid using preparations that scratch. Old powder puffs, thoroughly cleaned, make good polishers.
How can small portions or bits of left-over vegetables be used?
Try poaching in milk as many eggs as there are persons to be served. Remove the eggs to slices of toast, thicken the milk or make a white sauce of it, season with salt, pepper, paprika or celery salt, add vegetables cut into small pieces and cook until they are thoroughly heated. Pour around the eggs and serve. Peas, string beans, carrots or asparagus may be used separately or with potatoes and makes a nourishing dish. They may also be used in making individual meat and vegetable pies.
Can you tell me if there is any way in which pimentos may be kept after the can is opened?
The answer to this was given in the February Magazine, 1923, p. 74.
Is there any way to prevent the skins of apples from breaking when they are baked?
Try pricking the skins with a fork or skewer and bake in muffin pans. Much depends on the kind of apple used. Onions, stuffed tomatoes, or stuffed peppers, will keep their shape better if baked in muffin tins.
Olive oil for salad will not turn rancid, after the can or bottle has been opened if two lumps of sugar are dissolved in each quart of oil?Mrs. M. L. I., Ogden, Utah.
An economical way to make a quilt if no other material is at hand is to take the bottom and least worn parts of old shirts, cut in any size pieces desired and sew together. Make two covers two and one-half yards square or two and one-half by two and one-fourth yards as preferred. With a wool batt and close quilting this makes a soft, warm, cheap, quilt. It can be covered with new material and not be too heavy for common use. (Pretty, 
light colors that harmonize make very pretty quilts.)?Mrs. P. A. B., Zensff, Arizona,
If the kitchen stove has to be blackened try this. Cover the hands with a soap lather and permit it to dry on before starting the process. It serves as well as gloves, when the hands are washed the polish will all wash off with the soap.?Mrs. V. S. Blanding, Utah.
The above suggests this thought, when stoves are stored for the summer they should be carefully rubbed with kerosene to prevent rusting.
One way I have found of saving money is to pay cash for groceries. When I have the money, I go where I can get the best for it. I allow myself so much each month, and plan to keep within that amount. If I had a charge account my bill would get ahead of me. It is hard to pay for the pound of butter already used. Paying cash makes housekeeping more interesting and cheerful?Mrs. H. P., Magna, Utah.
If the garbage pail is lined with newspaper it helps to preserve it and keep it clean It can easily be removed and fresh put in.
When rubber aprons or baby's rubber panties begin to tear, mend with adhesive tape. Place the torn edges closely together and 'put the center of a narrow strip of tape directly over them. Press carefully with fingers to prevent wrinkles.
Small pieces of an old felt hat, glued to the bottom of the chair legs, or any other furniture that is easily moved, will prevent them from marring or scratching the floors. Glass coasters under legs of heavy furniture will prevent the same and also relieve the pressure and wear on rugs.
Round, flat tin boxes are excellent to keep doilies from being soiled and wrinkled.
Fine salt and a stiff brush are good tools with which to clean a wire sieve or bowl strainer. Use the rotary motion to prevent wear on the wire and soiling the front of your apron.
Conference Visitors
The adult blind extend an invitation to conference visitors to inspect the new work shop at 154 Regent Street. 'The handiwork of these men is for sale and they are glad to take orders from out-of-town people. As idleness is the great tragedy of the blind, all they ask is an opportunity to work.