[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson I Theology and Testimony]
guide  our  course.  One  of  the  brightest  women  of  the  Church 
became  so  carried  away  with  the  prophecies  of  Daniel  and 
St.  John,  with  the  confusing  estimates  of  "times,  times,  and 
half-times,"  that  she  finally  drifted  out  of  the  Church  alto- 
gether, because  people  would  not  sympathize  with  her  and 
partake  of  her  excessive  enthusiasm. 
Balance,  poise — these  are  the  keynotes  of 
Cultivate  Poise,  sanity  and  wisdom.  Our  heads  must  not 
soar  so  far  in  the  clouds  that  we  cannot  find 
our  feet  firmly  fixed  on  the  earth.  While  we  are  here  we  must 
observe  the  laws  of  spiritual  as  well  as  material  gravitation, 
or  we  will  be  destroyed. 
Our  condition,  today,  in  the  nation  and  in  the 
Be  Sane.  world,    is    sufficiently    serious,    and   the    ap- 
proach of  the  world's  end  is  sufficiently  near 
to  demand  our  supreme  effort  at  self-control  and  self-poise. 
Sisters,  do  not  be  deceived  by  over-zealous  people  who  have 
this  direful  dream  to  relate  or  that  hazy  vision  to  whisper 
in  your  ear.  Just  keep  your  eye  on  your  file-leader — be  pru- 
dent— attend  to  your  daily  duty  better  and  more  faithfully 
than  ever  before — read  the  Scriptures,  attend  your  Relief 
Society  and  Sacrament  meetings,  look  well  after  the  children, 
redeem  your  dead,  take  sufficient  time  off  for  regular  recrea- 
tion, don't  be  excited  nor  over-zealous,  but  be  wise,  be  poised, 
be  Relief  Society  women  in  whom  your  husbands,  sons,  and 
the  angels  can  trust  to  all  eternity.

Guide  Lessons. 
LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony. 
First  Week  in  May. 
the  days  of  the  judges. 
(Readings:  Judges.  Chapters  4  and  5.) 
Two  periods  are  involved  in  this  lesson — the  sojourn  in  the 
wilderness  and  the  conquest  of  Canaan  by  the  Israelites.  We 
shall  deal  with  each  separately. 
\  i'Ut  the  death  of  Rachel,  and  probably  of  Leah  also,  came 
the  famine  in  the  land  of  Palestine  and  the  relief  of  his  father's 
family  by  Joseph,  who  had  been  sold  to  the  Ishmaelites.  Jacob 
then  went  to  Egypt  with  h:s  household  to  the  number  of  seventy 
persons,  counting  Joseph  and  his  two  sons.     Here  Israel   died. 
Then  his  descendants,  till  a  ruler  arose  "who  knew  not 
Joseph,"  entered  upon  their  four  hundred  years  of  "bondage"  to 
the  Egyptians.  Towards  the  end  of  this  period  their  burdens 
became  unbearable,  so  much  so  that  they  cried  to  the  God  of  their 
fathers  for  deliverance.  Jehovah  heard  their  prayers  and  set 
them  free.  Through  a  rapid  succession  of  events — the  birth  and 
rise  of  Moses,  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  him,  the  plagues 
upon  their  oppressors,  and  their  flight  from  the  Nile  banks — the 
children  of  Israel  escaped  beyond  the  power  of  the  enemy  into 
the  wilderness. 
Their  wanderings  in  the  wilderness  continued  till  almost 
every  man  died,  who  had  come  out  of  Egypt,  and  a  new  genera- 
tion had  grown  up.  Moses,  "the  most  exalted  figure  in  the 
ancient  world."  was  their  leader  in  both  temporal  and  spiritual 
matters.  Meantime  they  had  dissensions  within  their  ranks  and 
fierce  battles  with  their  enemies  without.  The  generation  of 
Israelites  that  came  out  of  Egypt  is  often  characterized  in  the 
biblical  narrative  as  "stiff-necked."  And  they  were — if  we  are  to 
judge  by  their  actions.  Even  Moses,  one  of  the  meekest  of  men, 
at  times  became  impatient  with  them,  and  gave  them  the  rebukes 
they  richly  deserved.  This  stiff-neckedness  it  was  that  impelled 
the  Lord  to  "cut  off"  the  generation  that  crossed  the  Red  sea. 
As  for  the  opposition  the  Israelites  encountered  from  the  tribes 
along  the  way,  the  chosen  people  were  generally  successful  in 
battle.     On  the  death  of  Moses,  Joshua  took  command  of  the

GUIDE  LESSONS.  231 
Israelites,  and  led  them  presently  into  the  land  of  Canaan,  which 
he  conquered  for  their  "inheritance  and  possession"  and  which  he 
divided  off  for  them. 
After  Joshua  had  "taken  the  Promised  Land"  and  given  it 
to  the  children  of  Israel,  there  were  still  many  Canaanites  left 
in  cities  here  and  there  in  the  "inheritance"  of  certain  tribes. 
These  were  "left  by  the  Lord,"  we  are  told,  "to  prove  Israel  by 
them."  The  tribe  of  Benjamin,  for  instance,  "did  not  drive  out 
the  Jebusites,  nor  Manasseh  the  inhabitants  of  Beth-shean  and 
her  towns ;"  and  this  same  statement  is  made  by  the  sacred  his- 
torian concerning  the  tribes  of  Ephraim,  Zebulun,  Asher,  and 
Naphtali.  And  hereby  hangs  a  tale.  For  whenever  the  Israel- 
ites left  off  serving  the  Lord  for  a  time,  as  they  did  at  frequent 
intervals  during  these  years,  these  Canaanitish  people  became  a 
source  of  great  trouble  to  them.  "I  will  not  drive  them  out  from 
before  you,"  said  the  Lord,  referring  to  the  first  inhabitants  of 
the  land,  "but  they  shall  be  as  thorns  in  your  sides,  and  their  gods 
shall  be  a  snare  unto  you." 
During  the  leadership  of  Joshua,  the  Israelites  "served  the 
Lord  all  his  days."  But  when  that  generation  "were  gathered 
unto  their  fathers"  and  when  another  arose  "which  knew  not  the 
Lord  nor  yet  the  works  which  he  had  done  for  Israel,"  they  "did 
evil  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  and  served  Baalim.  And  they  for- 
sook the  Lord  God  of  their  fathers,  which  brought  them  out  of 
the  land  of  Egypt,  and  followed  other  gods,  the  gods  of  the 
people  that  were  round  about  them." 
They  were  brought  back  to  the  service  of  the  Lord  only 
through  suffering  and  bondage — as  who  is  not  ?  Sometimes  their 
deliverance  was  wrought  through  the  treachery  of  one  of  their 
number,  as  in  the  case  of  Ehud,  who  "made  him  a  dagger  which 
had  two  edges,  of  a  cubit  length,"  who  "did  gird  it  under  his 
raiment  upon  his  right  thigh,"  who  thereupon  went  on  a  personal 
visit  to  Eglon,  "a  very  fat  man"  and  the  king  of  Israel's  oppres- 
sors, and  who  "put  forth  his  left  hand  and  took  the  dagger  from 
his  right  thigh  and  thrust  it  into  the  king,"  blade  and  haft  and  all, 
till  the  king  was  dead.  Sometimes  this  deliverance  was  wrought 
out  by  means  of  the  direct  valor  of  such  persons  as  Barak  and 
Deborah,  who  with  ten  thousand  men  of  war  wrested  the  freedom 
of  their  people  from  the  hands  of  those  who  oppressed  them. 
Josephus  has  a  passage  concerning  this  very  time  which 
allows  us  to  look  at  the  general  condition  of  the  Israelites  during 
one  of  these  lapses.  "The  Israelites  grew  so  indolent  and  un- 
ready of  taking  pains,"  he  says,  "that  misfortunes  came  heavier 
upon  them,  which  also  proceeded  in  part  from  their  contempt  of 
the  divine  worship ;  for  when  they  had  once  fallen  off  from  the 
regularity  of  their  political  government,  they  indulged  themselves