[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Social Work]

social work, it being suggested for the consideration of the authorities in the appointment of stake and ward committees that it might be well to have the auxiliary organizations represented on such committees. These committee^ should act in harmony with the Priesthood and cany out their wishes. All social gatherings should be under their direct supervision. 2. Meetings and Order of Business.  All committees having social work in charge shall have definite times of meeting. The following order of business for these meetings is suggested: la) Prayer. Roll call. (c) Reports of work previously assigned. (tl) Consideration of general regulatory suggestions received. I e i Consideration of local social problems, and determination upon definite ways and means of their solution. i fi Definite assignments of members of the commith. to the execution and supervision of the plans agreed upon. ( g ) benediction. PRIESTHOOD APPROVAL AND PUBLIC SENTIMENT. All decisions reached by the social committees should be approved by the presiding authorities in the stakes and wards. The SOCIAL WORK. 225 co-operation of all Priesthood and auxiliary organizations, and of all other helpful sources, should be earnestly sought. The decisions should then be brought before the general public with a view to creating sentiment in their favor. It must always be understood that no plan of action can be successful unless supported by public sentiment. Therefore, opportunity must be sought to present the work of the committee in the public gatherings with a view to enlisting support. INSTRUCTIONS ON DANCING AND BALL ROOM MANAGEMENT. 1. The Hall.  The committee shall see that the hall is clean, comfortable, well lighted, and ventilated. Where possible, separate cloak rooms for ladies and gentlemen should be provided. 2. Time of Opening and Closing.  All parties should begin not later than 8:30 and close not later than 1 1:30 p. m. The frequent practice of playing the "Home, Sweet Home" medley should be dispensed with. 3. Prayers.  All parties should be opened and closed by brief, appropriate prayers. . 4. Director of the Dance.  A competent man, who is tactful, and has influence among the young people, shall be selected by the committee as director of the dance; if not already a member of the committee, he shall be made a member. During the dance the director shall have supervision of the hall, orchestra and program, and shall be the constituted judge as to what is proper and improper in dancing and deportment. When deemed advisable, he may be compensated for his service, such compensation to be charged as part of the expense of the dance. Where conditions require, the director of the dance should have such assistants as may be necessary. It is suggested that these assistants be young men congenial with the young people, and familiar with dances and dancing. 5. Duties of Director.  Among the duties of the director are these: (a.) To consult with the musicians prior to the evening of the dance upon the fitness of the music for the dances determined upon, and arrange that only proper music shall be played. High class music is conducive to good deportment and refined dancing. Great care should be exercised in the choice of music for the dance, and the orchestra should not be permitted to play objectionable selections. (b) To be on hand promptly in order that the dance may begin at the appointed time; also to see that the musicians and reception committee are present on time. 
 (c) To follow the program, preserving the identity of the dance. Dances should be announced by placard, program, or otherwise. Allowance should be made for some variety in moth odds of dancing, provided the different interpretations are similar enough not to be objectionable.  To insist upon correct position. (e) To exclude, tactfully but courageously, undesirable persons, and to see that the use of tobacco, liquor, and bad language is not permitted in or about the building. (f) To see that all present receive proper introductions. Great care should be exercised in introducing young people to strangers. No young man or young woman should be introduced unless the person making the introduction can stand sponsor for his or her worthiness. Much harm has resulted from indiscriminate introductions. 6. Patrons and Ciiaperones.  Patrons and chaperones lend "tone" and an atmosphere of conservatism much to be desired, and also add an element of real safety. Young people should be instructed that chaperonage is rather for protection than for restraint. Social committees should make it their special duty to see that bishops and other leading members of the Priesthood, as well as parents, receive personal invitations to, and are encouraged to attend, the dances of the young people. Arrangements should be made to insure the attendance at each dance of at least three parent couples, free of charge. Frequent changes in the personnel of patrons are desirable. Attention to these details will solve many of the problems connected with social life. 7. Children Under Age.  Boys and girls under fourteen years of age, unaccompanied by parents, sin mid be discouraged from attending evening parties. 8. Escorts.  Young ladies may attend without gentlemen courts, if properly chaperoned. but should not accept company me if there than that with which they came. 9. PARTNERS.  Young men should bring partners, and their coming without should be strongly discouraged if not forbidden. 10. Position.  Dancers should take such free and open position as will permit them to execute the dance gracefully, presenting a pleasing appearance. Most of the recent criticism of dancing is occasioned by the improper positions assumed in the modern dance. Any position which encroaches in the slightest degree upon modesty and refinement should not be permitted. " 11. Square Dances.  Square and line dances give variety and develop the spirit of sociability. Many have the idea that these dances are to be engaged in with much noise and stamping SOCIAL WORK. 227 and at a whirlwind rate. This is not so. As much grace and dignity are required in square as in round dances. 12. No Special Dances Approved.  The Church authorities do not express approval of any particular dance. They expect all dances to be characterized by modesty and refinement. 13. Special Attention.  In putting the foregoing instructions into effect, special emphasis should be laid upon the following: fa) Organization of committees. (b) Appointment of director of the dance. (c) Chaperonage. (d) Proper position. Contiguous stakes may unite in formulating plans for carrying out these regulations, and for perfecting other details to suit local conditions. The General Board of Relief Society. The General Board Deseret Sunday School Union. The General Board Y. M. M. I. A. The General Board Y. L. M. I. A. The General Board Primary Associations. The General Board of Religion Classes. The General Church Board of Education. ON THE WAY. Spring is comin'. Think I hear the bees a hummin' ; Caught a glimpse of bluebird's wing, Heard a speckled med'lark sing, Felt a touch of balmy breeze, Heard it whisperin' to the trees, "Spring is comin'." Spring is comin'. Hear the wood-pecker drummin' ; See the green blades peepin' thru, And a blue-eyed violet too! Hark, I hear a robin's song! Makes me happy all day long, MANTI, UTAH. Spring is comin'. Mrs. Parley Nelson. ?