[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: THE VISION. | Author: Unknown]

THE VISION.
I PENSIVE sat alone, at that sweet hour,
When, in the west, the dying king of day,
Merges his fading glories into night.
Alone, in such deep thought, the sleeping hour,
Of time passed on unnoted, and ere long,
Night’s shadows, like the poet’s sable shroud.
Enwrapped the senses of a slumb’ring world.
In that deep hour, with all its solemn gloom,
The soul, it seems, in closer union meets,
With Nature’s greater,universal soul.
And thus with me; Identity was lost;
And I became, for one brief hour at least,
The willing captive of the hoary past.
By force unseen, nor with mine own volition,
I, fanned by breezes as I passed along,
With silent power was borne unto a mount,
Whose lofty summit, overlooked the land.
Like map in high relief there stretched away,
Beneath, a panorama, far and near;
The towns and cities, rivers, fields and woods,
And all that goes to make what we call earth.
But darkness deep, bespread the landscape o’er,
Nor could the rising sun, with fervid power,
Dispel the murky clouds which, like a pall,
Hung o’er each spot by foot of mankind pressed.

As with the eye of bird, I looked and saw,
All things transpiring on our little world.
And I beheld confusion, envy, strife;
Among the surging throngs of human life.
The power of strength o’er weakness, and the cry
Of wretched want assailing hoarded wealth. 
And more I saw: dark deeds of murder, theft,
Committed under cover of the clouds,
Which ever more grew blacker and more dense,
As deeds of men took on more dismal hue.

And when, anon, up through the murky air,
Assailed mine ears, the wailing cries of her
Who, weaker than her elder brother, man,
Still bore his burden, added to her own:
My heart grew sick, at sights and sounds so dire;
I closed mine eyes, refusing more to gaze,
On scenes opposed to reason, and my heart.

'Twas then a voice in tender cadence spoke,
Bidding me ope, again my averted eyes,
And I obeyed; I could not otherwise,
So much authority spoke in the tone.
I saw no person, but a Presence felt,
As well as heard, and listed to obey.

I looked again- the scene was little changed,
Gross darkness reigned o’er all the sleeping
	world,
Except, at one small point, where, like a star,

[Column 2]
Of purest ray, and primal magnitude,
Shone forth a light of brightest radiance;
Which, as I gazed, enlarged, and as it grew,
Its brightness softened, and its mellowed tone
Assumed the form and substance of a man,
Of goodly parts, and beaming countenance.
A god-like man, who towered above the world,
As Gulliver beyond the pigmy tribe.

A gleaming pedestal beneath his feet,
Made up of stones, each sep’rate stone a gem,
Engraved, in shining letters with its name.
Fair Truth appeared as chiefest corner-stone
Flanked by Justice here, and Mercy there.
Faith shone serenely from her central place,
Love! Her sweet sister, snugly by her side—
While Hope, with smiling lips and eye serene,
Throughout the darkness sent long rays of light.

A standard held the Vision in his hand,
A silken banner of cerulean hue—
Enwrit,in letters like to burning fire,
With “REVELATION!”title most divine.
And with the other hand he held aloft,
A great golden key: and as I gazed,
I heard a voice of wondrous depth and power,
Proclaim this utterance to the startled world:
"The key is turned for woman: and henceforth
She takes her rightful place by brother man.
Her star is risen, and will brighter grow,
And go not out forever. Let it be!"

The vision faded, leaving in its wake,
The glorious light, the heaven-revealed, the true,
Which ever spread, and ever chased the gloom.
And from afar arose small points of light,
Which grew, and multiplied, and coalesced,
As though in sympathy with their great head,
Until, in God’s due time, the darkness fled,
And man and woman, true to his great plan,
Emerged into the glorious light of day.
CACTUS.


