[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: THE UTAH EVENING. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

THE UTAH EVENING.
	The evening of Jan. 27, was devoted to
the welcome of Utah. Senator Cannon
and wife, and Representative Allen and
wife, and others were on the platform.
The Senator had just arrived in the city,
and the formal recognition of the third star,
which gave particular lustre to the Con-
vention, had been postponed until his ar-
rival.
	After Miss Anthony’s greeting, Rev.
Anna Shaw tendered the welcome of the
Association. She said in part:
	The triumph of Utah is our triumph.
We too, should be congratulated. Every
Star added to the flag—that means all a
flag can mean to any human being in pro-
tection or rights, and is a guarantee of lib-
erty, means the e'evation of every human
being the round world over. It means
that we are beginning to learn that “One
is our Father, and all we are brethren.”
With the incoming of Utah with freedom
for every one of its citizens, not only Utah,
but the United States, and wherever there
breathes a human being, every soul is bene-
fited. This third star is a prophecy that
the stars shall come out on our banner un-
til our blue field will be a banner of glory.
We expected this of Utah. Their men
would have been unworthy sons had they
not done this. No man who has stood by
his mother and has seen the tolls, hopes,
and the time of seed-sowing of both ful-
filled in the hour of Statehood, would have
been a true son if he had refused to grant
her liberty with himself.
	These three stars are the gems on the
crown of our States. Wherever we go in
the West, and look toward Heaven, we
can see these three stars. I welcome you
as one of the three which makes glad the
heart of the woman who loves liberty.
Thrice welcome, grand Utah, not only to
our Republic of States, but to our Re-
public of stars that denote the only true
Republic the world has ever known.
	Senator Cannon eloquently responded
for Utah. He said:
	During the forty-nine years of life in
Utah the women had furnished the courage
and the trust in God. Then when the
question came up as to their enfranchise-
ment, we said “Yes, though it should
take another forty-nine years to gain our
Statehood.” The mother who bore me
endured the trials and privations of pioneer
life twelve years before I saw the light.
The women traveled across the desert with
bleeding feet; they drove the ox carts;
they lived on roots season after season to


[Column 1]
save their grain to plant that others might
have bread.
	In our territorial condition we gave wo-
men the ballot, but Congress took it away.
The first time the men of Utah had a
chance they gave it back again. The wo-
man suffragists of Utah could always get a
hearing when men could not.
	I would say to these sisters of the
National Association, that men do not, as a
rule, feel disinclined to suffrage because they
do not believe it is your right to vote, but
because they believe it is your right not to
vote. But they are beginning to believe in
suffrage, because they know that woman
has always carried the burdens of mankind.
A man who did not at first believe in wo-
man suffrage, said he read Parkhurst’s ar-
raignment of the city government, and he
noticed that while the professional men
laughed, the women held a meeting and
laid out their plan of attack, and the
proudest police captains bowed their heads.
Then he knew that woman was the power
needed to reform politics. In the great
essentials of the world, woman has always
been the burden bearer.
	Miss Anthony referred to Senator Brown,
who had not yet reached the city, as the
brother of Rev. Olympia Brown, who was
a life-long worker for woman suffrage. She
also said she would call on Representative
Allen to tell how it felt to have a wife as
good as he was. Mr. Allen made a very
bright speech. He referred to the great-
ness of Utah in resources, but her best
claim to greatness was in her people. She
had started right in giving the franchise to
that part of society which intrinsically
knows what is right. Utah greatly ap-
preciates this demonstration, made in honor
of its being third in the true and lasting
Union which is destined to grow stronger
year by year, until it shall conquer in
every State.
	Mrs. Sarah A. Boyer, of Springfield,
Utah, was next introduced. She made
some very good points, substantially as
follows:
	The question of woman Suffrage under-
lies all national progress. It means the
breaking down of every institution that
threatens to break down the home. A
century of progress has filled our prisons
and our insane asylums, and depraved the
morals of men. Something is wrong.
We need co-operation of men and women
in our government to perpetuate its virtues.
The Federal Union is to be congratulated
on the addition of so loyal and patriotic a
people as those of Utah. It is 45 years
since Utah became a Territory; women had
the ballot for seventeen years, and used it
well. In the midst of every struggle the
women of Utah had remained undaunted;
working together with men they will make
the name of Utah a synonym for progress.
	Mrs. Emily Richards, of Salt Lake City,
was the next speaker. She considered that
the putting a woman suffrage provision in
the State Constitution was the direct result
of the former temporary adoption of it. 
She said in part: 
	Throughout the history of Utah there
has been a growing tendency toward inde-
pendence, self-culture, and self-reliance
among women. The years in which wo-
men exercised the right of suffrage shows
that they prized their privilege and per-
formed their duties with fidelity. The
revocation of their ballot was regarded as
arbitrary and unwarranted: an injury to be
remedied, rather than acquiesced in. A

[Column 2]
church edict, and the Constitution had pro-
hibited polygamy, and the people had
aligned along lines representing national 
issues. There was such a fixed sentiment
in favor of woman suffrage that neither
party could ignore it. It was deeply im-
bedded in the political conscience, and as-
pirations of the people. Both Republican
and Democrats parties put it unequivocally
in their platforms. Notwithstanding this
the organized opposition of the liquor in-
terest was the nucleus around which various
forms of antagonism gathered, so that it
was necessary to present the cause before
the Convention with zeal and ability.
Still there was a minority of two members
of the committee who reported against
adopting woman suffrage on the ground
that by the vote of women the sphere of
church influence would be greatly augment-
ed. Such an issue could not but be in-
flammable in Utah, and it resulted in a
hand to hand conflict of debate; only a
slim majority standing firm to their pledges,
and the cause of women. But when it
was seen that the measure was bound to
carry the opposition crumbled away, so that
at the last the Convention was practically
unanimous for woman suffrage. It will be
difficult for the future historian to show,
from the records, how deeply woman’s
cause was imperilled. It was the opinion
of many judges and lawyers that women
were immediately entitled to vote. At the
beginning of the canvass the Republicans
had nominated three women on their State
ticket and the Democrats intended to do the
same, but before their Convention the Su-
preme Court decided that women could not
vote before the Constitution was adopted.
Women, however, still took a lively inter-
est in the campaign, and the Constitution
was adopted by more than 20,000 majority.
				—Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


