[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY. | Author: Unknown]

THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.

	SOME of the sisters who have great love
for Sister Zina D. H. Young, and wishing
to manifest their appreciation of her labors
as a friend to humanity and a public ser-
vant, counseled together as to how they
could best express in a fitting manner the
esteem and respect of her associates on the
coming birthday which would complete her
seventy-fifth year—making the three quart-
ers of a century, which is a ripe age, and a
time, when one would no longer hesitate to
be called old, After careful thought it was
decided that as President of a great organi-
zation, the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety, it might be appropriate to celebrate
by a meeting in every ward throughout the
organization. Accordingly this was decided
upon and letters were written to presiding
officers and some suggestions were made to
them as to the program of exercises.
	Meanwhile her children and intimate
friends planned a banquet in her honor to
be given on January 31, 1896, and the sis-
ters who are officers in the General and
Salt Lake Stake Boards of the several
Associations met and conferred together, as
to what should be done, and how to pro-
ceed. The matter was given serious atten-
tion and after many meetings of Commit-
tees the Hotel Templeton was agreed upon
as a suitable place and arrangements were
made to hold the banquet there. Commit-
tees were appointed to dispose of the work
and the affair was settled. Invitations were
circulated and every detail attended to as far
as possible. All these things were done with-
out the knowledge or consent of Sister Zina.
Souvenir cards were prepared, Sister Zina’s
picture in the left-hand corner—her name
and the dates 1821—1896—and a verse in-
scribed which spoke of her labors and vir-
tues.
	A saintly face, and a great mother heart,
	So rich in grace, and charily thou art, 
	That evermore our reverence shall be,
	A loving tribute to thy memory,
	E’en poets yet unborn shall sing thy fame,
	And future generations bless thy name.
	These cards represented the colors of the
Society which are in the banner, blue, white
and gold; cards white, edging and lettering
gold, ribbon with which it is tied blue. Mrs.
McCune with her usual generosity was on
hand with her carriage to convey eminent
guests. Sister Zina was brought from her
home into the parlors of the Templeton in-
to the midst of floral decorations and of

[Column 2] 
guests among whom were many very old
friends and distinguished visitors.
	About two hundred guests, relatives and
intimate friends of Mrs. Young were seated
at the banquet in the spacious dining room
of the Templeton, President Lorenzo Snow
of the Quorum of the Apostles offered the
benediction. Clive’s band discoursed the
choicest selections of music in the ante-
room during dinner, and after partaking of
the sumptuous repast, the company re-
paired to the parlors and the program of
exercises begun, Captain Willard Young
Master of Ceremonies; opening with music,
voluntary, on the piano by Miss Kate
Romney—song by Miss Carrol C. Cannon,
“Pilgrim’s Band of Hope” encore; Captain
Young’s address to his mother in recogni-
tion of the day, and her many labors and
teachings, which was both tender and elo-
quent—Singing led by Professor C. J.
Thomas and Maggie Hull, “O, my Father
thou that dwellest’’ etc. Response to toast,
“The Relief Society’’ by Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, giving the origin and organiza-
tion of that great and grand association.
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith followed con-
firming the statements made by Sister
Kimball and expressing her own views and
her delight on this happy occasion. Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor read an original poem by
Emily H. Woodmansee after which more
music was given and a recitation by little
Zina Card—“Christ And The Little Ones”
song by Maggie Hull, poem by Augusta
J. Crocheron, read by Annie Wells Can-
non, telegrams of congratulations to Mrs.
Young from Ephraim, Nephi and Lehi in
behalf of the sisters of the society of these
places, were read. Speech by President
George Q. Cannon, in which he alluded to
the privileges of equality the sisters now
enjoyed and urged wisdom and caution in
the exercise of the franchise. Con-
gratulated Sister Zina on her labors, the
enjoyment of all her faculties and health
and strength at the great age, referred to
the many blessings the Saints enjoyed at
the present time.
	Response by the venerable President
Zina D. H. Young, and more music; speech
impromptu, Mrs. E. B. Wells and conver-
sation general among the guests. After-
wards Mrs. May B. Talmage recited “Only
A Girl,’’ very impressively rendered, and
there was music by Rhoda Mabel Young,
and songs in Hawaiian language by Elder
Jacob Gates and a speech by Elder Oliver
B. Huntington of Springville brother of
Mrs. Young; recitation “The New Church
Organ” by Mrs. Elizabeth McCune in her
inimitable style and humorous recitations
by Zebulun Jacobs grandson of Mrs. Young,
speech by George Chase of Centerville
and other exercises. The singing of
“Auld Lang Syne” completed the evening’s
entertainment. It was a very enjoyable
affair and a day never to be forgotten by
those who had the privilege of assembling
together and congratulating the lady in
whose honor the party was given.
	One thing to be regretted is that all the
very dear friends of Sister Young could not
have met in one place but there is no hall
large enough; and the Committees had to
decide on a certain number; in a party
given for one so universally beloved and
respected it would require a place as large
as the Theater or the Pavilion at Saltair.
	The entertainments given in the several
wards on the same day so far as we have
heard were very happy and enjoyable gather-
ings


