[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: JULIA A. MACDONALD Cor. Sec. | Author: Unknown]

			JULIA A. MACDONALD Cor. Sec.

	Elder Anthony W. Ivins, son of the
deceased, arrived at St. George in the early
morning having come all the way from
Mexico via Salt Lake City after receiving
the news of the death of his moth[-]r by tele-
graph. He was accompanied by his cousin
Apostle Heber J. Grant. The funeral
services were held at one o’clock the same
day in the Tabernacle, Bishop Thomas P.
Cottam presiding. The choir sang “Earth-
ly happiness is fleeting.” Prayer was
offered by Elder Charles Smith, the choir
rendered the hymn “Come ye disconsolate
etc.” Brother George Woodward, member
of the High Council, was the first speaker,
said he had known Sister Ivins—who did
not change her name by marrying—nearly
all his life. They lived in the same neigh-
borhood. They were well off. Had a
small farm and mill and were well respec-
ted. They went to school together. He
had always respected her and when the
Gospel was brought to that neighborhood
by Jedediah M. Grant, they received it
with gladness. Spoke of her in a very
high and estimable manner. She was a
very amiable lady from her youth up, and
had worn herself out in doing good.
	James G. Bleak, also a member of the
High Council and assistant to the President
of the St. George Temple and fellow laborer
with Sister Ivins in that place, said it had


[Column 1]
been truly said that she lived in the hearts
of those who knew her. A number of us
have known her about half her life. Said
she died in her eightieth year. She has
labored in St. George Temple nearly one
fourth of her life, and her fellow laborers
there are not, in their feelings, prepared to
part with her and if this sister has ever
spoken a word against any Brother or Sis-
ter, my ears have never heard it. All these
decorations, the wreaths of flowers and the
preparations for this service, show that she
lived in the hearts of the people. There is
not a blessing or a promise that God has
placed in the hands of his servants to give
to mortals on earth, bnt that has been plac-
ed upon the head of this Sister and her
partner who is left behind to mourn her loss.
May God comfort and bless him. We do
not mourn as others of the world do. Spoke
in thankfulness to God that her son, whom
we all so dearly love, is here to see her laid
peacefully away.
	David H. Cannon, President of the St.
George Temple, said that it was with pecu-
liar feelings that he attempted to address
the people, because of the separation from
Sister Ivins. He said he oft-times thought
we put off eulogizing our friends until they
pass away and then speak of their valuable
qualities when it will do them no good.
	We mourn because of our mortal separa-
tion, but we look forward to the glorious
resurrection, to that union which we look
forward to with such fond anticipation.
She always had a mantle of charity to throw
over the faults of others.
	Our meeting to-day shows how highly
she was esteemed by the people, and what
to us is a loss, to her is a gain and that
stepping from this stage of action is only
like stepping from one room to another, and
there is in reality no cause for us to mourn;
and, without a doubt, she has already been
greeted by some whom she has officiated for
in holy places. He asked that the bless-
ings of God might be poured out upon
Brother Ivins and the whole family.
	President D. D. McArthur said he could
not help but rejoice for the condition of
Sister Ivins. We have many of our old
people passing away in peace, having lived
faithful all their days. Spoke of the joy
we should have in laying our loved ones by
in their peaceful quiet graves. Spoke of
the way the saints when traveling, had to
lay away members of their families by the
way. He rejoiced that his father and mo-
ther had laid their bodies down in peace
among the saints of God. He was sure
that Sister Ivins had gone to paradise and.
God, and all is well with her.
	Her example has been of the very best—
let us follow it. The servants of God are
giving us good counsel and advise all the
time. Let us follow it that we may be
worthy of the blessings God has in store for
us. He rejoiced that Sister Ivins and our
old brethren and sisters, who are passing
away, are laying their bodies down with
the testimony of Jesus in their hearts.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant desired the faith
of the saints that he might be able to con-
trol his feelings. As it has been said there
is nothing we can do to benefit Sister Ivins;
he bore his testimony that there is nothing in
the power of man to give that has not been
sealed upon her head. Read from the 76th
Section of the Doctrine and Covenants,
commencing at the 50th verse, and he
beautifully portrayed the glory that is to be
given to those who serve the Lord faithfully

[Column 2]
and are valiant for the word of God. He
bore testimony that Sister Ivins had made
all the sacrifice that God had required at
her hand. Said that the same blessings
that were promised to man on earth through
their faithfulness, are just as applicable to
the faithful sisters, and Sister Ivins so or-
dered her life that she is entitled to be
redeemed. She has redeemed her dead snd
has the knowledge that her labors have
been accepted and that she has been a
savior in very deed. It is just as natural
we should die as it is we should be born.
	He prayed that the spirit of God might
comfort the bereaved family. Said there
really was no cause for sorrow at the loss
of Sister Ivins, but still we do mourn for
her present loss. Prayed that we might be
as faithful as Sister Ivins.
	Bishop T P. Cottam announced that all
who desired to view the remains, would
please go to the north side of the building,
view the remains and pass out at the south
door.
	The choir sang "Lead me gently home,
Father." Benediction by Richard Bentley.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 117


