[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: UINTAH STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 15th Conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion,
held Jan. 12th, 1896., President Pope
presiding. Singing “Come Holy Spirit
heavenly dove.” Prayer by Counselor A.
K. Bartlett. Singing “Lord Thou wilt
hear me.” Minutes of previous Conference
read and approved. Brother Enos Bennion
felt it a great responsibility to undertake to
teach the Gospel. The Sisters have the
greatest responsibility in training the child-
ren, therefore they should have the Spirit
of the Lord. Nothing should be given the
preference ahead of making impressions up-
on the minds of the young. Sister Abbie
Oaks felt much pleased to be able to meet
with the Saints on this occasion. Our
children are our hope and we would all
like to have them make good men and
women. Took much pleasure in visiting
the Primary, for all her interest was there.
	Brother Anderson said the Relief Society
was one of the factors of the Church to help
build it up; spoke about circumstances
that brought about its organization, and
the duties pertaining thereto. Counselor
Mary Hall spoke about storing up grain
for time of need; also of the bad impressions
made upon the minds of the young by bad
pictures such as those that are got from
cigarette packages. Sister Sarah Coltin
thought the brethren should lend the sisters
a helping hand in doing their duties, and
help them to get to their meetings; spoke
of the duties devolving upon the Sunday
school teachers. Counselor A. K, Bartlett
thought woman’s mission had been beauti-
fully illustrated this afternoon; felt to en-
dorse what had been said, read a revelation
from the Doctrine and Covenants, and
spoke at some length on the same. Meet
ing adjourned untill 7 o’clock. Singing
“Lo the mighty God appearing. ” Benedic-
tion by Brother Nelson Merkley.
	EVENING SESSION: Singing “Come thou
glorious day of promise.” Prayer by
Brother Charles Bartlett. Singing “Joy to

[Column 2]
the world the Lord will come.” A statis-
tical and financial report was read and the
general and local authorities were sustained.
Brother Sterling Cotton said the Relie
Society was doing a great and grand wor
and one which all should be interested in.
When we realize the importance of the
work of God, we can well afford to spend
our time to help build it up Brother R.
S. Collett said we should not let the paltry
dollar take the lead of our minds. It is
very difficult to overcome the desires of the
flesh, nevertheless we should strive with all
our might to do so. Spoke at some length
upon different subjects which were very in-
teresting. Brother Sowards said if we
could realize the beauties of the future we
would not be as neglectful as we are.
What a consolation it is to contemplate on
the greatness of the Gospel. When we are
blessed with the Spirit of the Lord we do
not have malice in our hearts, but a broth-
erly feeling towards all. President Pope
had been much pleased with the conference,
made a few closing remarks and the confer-
ence adjourned. Singing “This earth was
once a garden place.” Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
				Sarah Pope, President.


