[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: TO MRS ZINA D. H. YOUNG. | Author: AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON]

TO MRS ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

MUSIC and light and warmth tonight
	Greet thee with language manifold,
Where first thine eyes beheld this spot
	A desert, desolate and old;
No roof of art shielded thy head,
	Nor music—save the wild birds voice,
Night sank and darkness hung around
	Yet even then thou did’st rejoice.

For then, a Prophet’s voice proclaimed
	It chosen ground, where peace and rest
Should guard his people till they grew
	In strength, with homes and power possessed
’Twas solitude, yet fear ne’er came
	To break their slumbers; 'round them rose
The harvest yield to bless their need,
	Where long had reigned but waste and snows.

Though unforgotten, kindred, homes,
	And sorrows knit in blood and tears,
Faith wrought its daily steadfast task
	And gathered strength with passing years.
Though famine came, God heard their prayers
	And white winged flocks in answer sped;
They stayed the foe, and Israel
	Gathered the manna and the bread.

Within tbeir lowly cabin walls
	The mothers sang their cradle songs,
The years sped on, and ere they knew,
	Their scanty numbers swelled to throngs,
And these outspreading, woke to life
	The sleeping valleys by each stream,
O’er mountain ranges far away,
	Their growth, their blessings, like a dream.

Fair Utah cannot hold the tide
	Of human life that God so sent,
Thou hast beheld them on the Isles,
	They dot the farther continent;
And to and fro God’s messengers
	Bear forth His Gospel and return,
For this is Zion; all the earth
	Her wond’rous story yet shall learn.

From ev’ry Saint that dwelleth here,
	From Saints that long this land to see,
This Day is wafted heavenward
	Remembrances and prayers for thee.
From weary march and roofless camp
	Unto the Temples famed and grand,
Thy feet trod first the barrenness
	And to His houses lent thy hand.

And thou hast gained that higher gift
	That worldly wisdom cannot teach,
Tongues of the vanished speak to thee,
	Thine inner sight, beyond doth reach.

[Column 2]
Thou hast been mother unto more
	Than thine own children, and the name
“Mother in Israel" is thine own
	And all who love thee share a claim.

Linked with this dispensation is
	Thy hist’ry from its earliest date,
In ev’ry Temple thou hast wrought
	Salvation for the small and great.
O, souls redeemed in other spheres!
	If thou hast knowledge of this day,
Join in our love and praise of her
	Who led from prison world thy way.

May mightiest love from higher, life
	Blend with our love and prayers below,
And heavenly power attend thy days
	While still on earth thy face we know;
Still drawing nearer to the source
	Thy listening soul learn holier love,
Till—passing—memory keeps thy name
	In Earth and Heaven, forever more.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Jan. 22nd, 1896.


[Column 1]
