[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS. 

[Column 1]
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society in all the organized Stakes, and in
branches of the Society in this and other
countries where there is no Stake organized
should send in a statistical and financial
yearly report for 1895. At the last busi.
ness meeting of the Board of Directors of
the National Woman’s Relief Society, a
quorum being present, it was decided that
the annual report of the Society should be
made in February, therefore instead of dat-
ing from the first day of January to the last
day of December inclusive, reports will be
hereafter from February to February of
each year. This year reports must date
from the first day of January 1895, or other-
wise a correct record could not be kept.
Secretaries should be careful and exact in
conforming to this official notice. All re-
ports should be forwarded to the office of the
Secretary, Constitution Building, Salt Take
City, not later than the 20th of February.
	MISS Mary E. CUTLER, of Holliston,
Mass., read the paper of the day at the
Farmers’ Meeting in this city recently.
Her subject was "The Profits of Garden-
ing." From a successful experience of
eleven years in raising fruits and vege-
tables for market, she drew the conclusion
that gardening can be made both pleasant
and profitable. Through the sudden death
of her father, Miss Cutler found herself in
possession of sixty-eight acres. She gave
up teaching and determined to keep her
home and to carry on her farm. The inter-
esting story she told of her forcing house
and hotbeds, her nursery stock, her market
garden, her small fruits and peach orchard,
shows that she puts brains into her work.
She has good judgment and business ability,
and believes in hard work, method and
wise economy. Mrs. Olive Wright, of
Denver, who was present, told of Mrs.
Kate Harlow, a well known fruit-grower
in Colorado, and a successful farmer. When
asked how she fertilized her peach orchard,
she replied, "I feed the trees with hard
work and good common sense.
	MRS. HIRST ALEXANDER, a well-known
Australian journalist, now making a short
visit in London, says that marked good
effects have followed the enfranchisement of
women in New Zealand. The Premier of New
Zealand. Hon. Richard J. Seddon, and the
principal journals have all acknowledged,
she says, that the influence of women dur-
ing the election, and after, has been
beneficial. The women have turned their
attention to ameliorating the conditions of
prisons, promoting the welfare of children
and other measures with which they are
qualified to deal. Giving the vote to wo-
men has in no wise disturbed the even tenor
of their domestic ways, and there is no
symptom that it has rendered them at all
"mannish.” The New Zealand govern-
ment has opened a Woman’s Labor Bureau

[Column 2]
in Wellington, with a woman as manager.
Several lady doctors have a good practice,
and Mrs. Alexander spoke with justifiable
pride of the good record made by women,
at the recent examination at the Melbourne
University. where they stood at the head of
several class lists, and carried off a large
percentage of the honors open to men and
women alike.
	MISS OLAFIA JOHNSDOTTER is a brilliant 
young woman, who has come to the front
in Iceland. At a convention called by the
speaker of the Althing, at the ancient seat
of Laws, to discuss issues of importance,
Miss Olafia was elected to represent the
Woman’s Political Society, which was or-
ganized in 1894. She mounted her sturdy
pony and set her face toward the old capi-
tal, forty miles distant, over a rough and
trying road. Though delegated by her
society she was not entitled to a seat, but
the men recognized that she had a constitu-
ency, and she was made a voting member
of the convention. She is president of the
Iceland W. C. T. U., and carries on an in-
surance business. It was in her "neat,
well furnished office" that Miss Jessie
Ackerman found her, and learned of her
work. In order to study the methods of
the shcools in Denmark, she journeyed
there and remained fifteen months. “Later
I went to Norway. the land of my ances-
tors," said Miss Johnsdotter, "where I be-
came acquainted with a women who was
agent for a New York Insurance Company.
She had made a great success of the busi-
ness there, and I was asked to take the
general agency for Iceland, which I did.
There was one insurance agency here, but I
desired to make a departure and see what a
woman could do along business lines. At
first there were many unfavorable com-
ments, but, as I succeeded, nothing is
thought of it now." Ex.


[Column 1
