The Poorhouse for Mother Clara Fagergren Jim Benton sat musing and planning in front of the fire in his comfortable living room. The deep, vertical line between his eyes grew more prominent, the straight, thin lips pressed more firmly together than usual?characteristics showing Jim in thoughtful and deliberate meditation. Something had to be done and done quickly. The old lady was getting more annoying and trying every day. Only yesterday she walked into 'the parlor, sleeves rolled up, and enveloped in a huge kitchen apron, where Helen, his wife, was entertaining some stylish company; and the day before that she had insisted on helping the Jaundry-woman with the washing. And the way she behaved at the table! 'Jim shuddered and closed his eyes at the recollection of her scooping the gravy with her knife and cooling her tea in a saucer. His patience and forbearance coin his feeble and failing old mother was at an end. He must and would consider his own family and his position in the community. He had reached the decision to transfer his mother to the county infirmary where she would have companions her own age and would be well looked after. At his house she was everlastingly embarrassing his family by her old-fashioned ways and lack of manners. Of course, she would not need to live at the infirmary as a charity member. He would see to it that she was paid for, she would have a room all to herself. And he would also send her books and delicacies. Furthermore, they needed the little room which his mother now occupied. His wife had suggested it would be an ideal place for a fernery because the room was on the north side of the house and inclined to be a little damp. Besides, it seemed hardly fair that he alone should assume the whole burden of his mother's support when there were four more brothers in the family. However, the others lived a long way off, two on barren homesteads and the other two squeezing out an existence in factories; just the same, they ought to contribute their share toward the support of their mother. Suddenly, Jim seemed to find himself transferred to a large and bare room in which a meeting of some kind was being held. Looking about him, curiously, he saw a multitude of old and bent forms of men and women sitting huddled on rows of wooden seats. On the stolid faces he read of hardships, of sorrows, of disappointments. Their heavy, dim eyes expressed no hope; their THE POORHOUSE FOR MOTHER 471 quivering old lips were unable to smile. There seemed to be a festive occasion of some kind because the whole assembly had made pitiful attempts at dressing up; the men in clean overalls and light-colored, frayed shirts; with antique, high collars about their wrinkled necks; the women's straight, shapeless dresses of the same pattern and color, such clothes as are furnished free to inmates in the poorhouse. The seats in front were occupied by a few visitors who in the kindness of their hearts had come to furnish entertainment and cheer to the poor inmates in the infirmary on this gray morning. An impromp u choir sang inspiring songs, and a sympathetic speaker repeated the story that never grows old; the birth of the Savior, his teachings, and the beautiful gospel of the resurrection and the life. The inmates listened interested and animated, for the time being forgetting their loneliness and misery and became like children again. One old soul, hands shaking with palsy and joining in the singing. In a dark corner a little twisted woman eyes steaming with maudlin tears, insisted on standing up and rocked violently back and forth, keeping time to the music with her whole body. <A half-witted man who, unknown to himself, had grown hoary and repulsive in sight, slapped his knees repeatedly and stamped his big feet noisily on the floor at the slightest prevocation. A stout woman, her gray hair cut short, and her paralyzed limbs stretched out helplessly in a wheel chair, glared fiercely and wrathfully at the assembled people, her befuddled mind unable to grasp the meaning, or appreciate the efforts, of the entertainers. Jim found himself scanning the features of the visitors hoping and praying that no one would recognize him-in these miserable surroundings. He felt a grievance, a dull resentment towards the members of his family who allowed his being interned in this institution, while they themselves lived in comfortable and pleasant homes. He figured mentally the endless chain of days and weeks he would be compelled to associate with these helpless and apathetic creatures; of the long hours of brooding in his small, cell-like room, and eating the monotonous, tasteless food on the oilcloth-covered tables. He groaned aloud. This was living death. Far better to rest under the green sod on the hillside than to endure this anguish. The entertainment over, the visitors distributed among the inmates small boxes and refreshments, a few candies, a glass of jelly, a little fruit. How the poor people rejoiced when receiving this little treat. Afraid not to get his share, Jim pressed forward and grabbed a box with trembling fingers. A kind, smiling lady assisted him to his seat again, saying: "We have brought a package for every one of you. No one shall be disappointed." After the visitors had left, the inmates were taken back to their room. To his surprise Jim found himself using a crutch. Hobbling along the long and bleak walls he passed rooms from: which afflicted and bedridden old people had not stirred for years. The attendants brought them their food. Then they were left waiting, waiting. At the end of a passage, Jim found his little room. In it he treasured a few keepsakes from his once prosperous home; a photograph of his wife and of his son stood on the table, and a few trinkets adorned the plain dresser. Sinking down in his chair the lonely man thought regretfully of his younger days, of his home, of his family. Evidently his family had forgotten him. Not a visit, not a _ letter, not a word. He knew his son to be a prominent member in the community. Had he not himself seen to it that the boy received a good education and had been trained to fill a responsible position in life? The father's great aim had been to have his son take advantage of every opportunity that came his way. Had he not shielded his son from every hardship he had ? passed through himself, and gladly bearing the heaviest burden, that his son might enjoy the good things in life? Shivering with cold he pulled himself together. O! The ingratitude of children! Sobs of self-pity rose thick in his throat. He felt himself slipping, then he struck the floor with a dull thud. Frightened, he opened his eyes and looked about him bewildered at the familiar objects in his own cozy living room. His wife stood by his side looking anxiously down at him. "You must have had a bad dream," she said. "Your sobbing frightened me.' The fire in the grate had died out, therefore "he room was dim and chilly. With an articulation of relief Jim sprang to his feet and turned on the light. He examined the place as if he had been absent a long time. His wife regarded him, puzzled. He remembered distinctly of sitting in the easy chair, planning?what? Ah, now he knew. Something about his mother. "I must see mother at once," he announced to the astonished woman; then he turned and left the room without a word of explanation. In a trice he stood at the door of his mother's room At his hurried knocking she opened the door, wonderingly, for not often did she receive any callers, especially at this late hour. Jim, a trifle embarrassed, looked down at the shrunken form; at 'he gnarled and work-worn hands; at the thin, gray hair, and at the lustreless old eyes that looked upon him now full of pride and love. He shifted his eyes for an instant to an old family portrait on the wall?his father, then a robust man of forty, seated, and his mother, then a beautiful and plump woman, standing proudly by the side of her husband holding the youngest child, himself, by the THE POORHOUSE FOR MOTHER 473 hand. Around them were grouped in unnatural and stiff positions the older children all decked out in their Sunday best. He had often heard his mother relate how it took her a week to get ready for that picture. "Mother," he began awkwardly, "I have been thinking this room too small and too drafty for you. How would you like to be moved into the south room where you would get the sun all day? You could use this little room as a sort of a kitchen where you could prepare your meals when not feeling like joining us in the dining room. The old lady's face glowed with pleasure and satisfaction. "Do you know," she confided, "I've often wished I could get my own meals whenever I wanted them, but disliked to say anything because I felt I'm too much of a bother as it is. I know my ways are old-fashioned and simple, while your family is inclined to be stylish. Sometimes I've wanted only something light for supper; when I kept house we used to eat dinner in the middle of the day, but you people have your big meal at night, and somehow or other I can't get used to it." "Now, mother," Jim said reproachfully, "why didn't you let us know what you wanted?" "T knew everything would come out all right in time," the mother replied, hopefully. "Your father was convinced you'd do the right thing by me. 'Jim's got a good head,' he was always saying. 'If I have to go before he finishes his education, don't you give up. See to it that he gets through school. He'll repay you for any sacrifice you make.' " The big man blushed guiltily, and for a few moments busily studied the pattern on the carpet. His mother went on reminiscently: "When father died I was forced to sell our home to clear the debts. Many's the time the older boys got after me for not taking you out of school and putting you to work. Your brother Robert got real nasty about it, and vowed if the bringing up he had had wasn't good enough for you he'd never turn his hand over for me or do mea good turn. HowI suffered to hear him talk like that! In the first place he had no head for learning; and even if he had been inclined to study from books we couldn't send him to school because we lived fifty miles from the nearest town. "Then, little by little, the other boys got dissatisfied, too. They was everlastingly pestering me why I slaved the way I done just to keep you in school. 'Is he any better than the rest of us?' they taunted. 'Put the loafer to work and save your own back.' " Jim now understood the aloofness with which the brothers regarded himself and his mother. Small wonder they seldom inquired after the state of her health, sometimes not even writing 474 her a letter for months. And she had borne all this for him who had planned?he groaned in anguish and remorse! His mother, warmed up to her subject, noticed him not, but continued, uninterrupted: "T loved all my children alike, no one can say anything else. But times in them days was different. The boys had to work alongside their father clearing the 'land and helping to make the living. Finally, when we let them attend the log cabin school, that was eventually built in our district, we done what the other settlers done, the best we could do. For all of that. I've heard of several of them boys who went to that very same school that have become lawyers and doctors and I don't know what. As time went on things went a little better for us. The railroad was coming through, and that gave the boys a chance to work on the road and make good wages. If it hadn't been for father dying when he did, and leaving a lot of notes he'd signed for some no-account men, we would have been pretty well fixed. As it was, we was forced to move to the city where your brothers soon got married and you had a good chance to go to school. It kept me digging to make ends meet, but I was strong and robust in them days. Besides, it was a pleasure to hear your teachers praise you and tell how well you got along in your lessons. "T could stand the tussle pretty well until you went east to finish up. The big washings I done then still makes my back ache whenever I think of them. And the piles of sewing and scrubbing, to say nothing of the days and weeks I waited on sick people; I was scared to turn down a single offer where I could make a dollar for fear you'd run short. I couldn't bear to think of you away from home and among strangers without 'he necessary things of life. Always I seemed to hear father's words: 'He'll repay you for any sacrifice you make.' "Whenever I heard how much money other parents sent their sons in college, I cried because I couldn't send you more! It seemed a mere pittance compared to what other boys had. Never a cent did I spend on my own back during them years. Everytime I paid out a dollar for something that was absolutely necessary for myself I seemed to be robbing you. I shall never forget the day you returned home from college with your diploma. I believe that was the proudest day in my life not counting the time I became the wife of your father. I kept repeating to myself, over and over: 'I've done it; I've pulled him through; he's my baby boy just the same, even though he's now graduated from college!' "After you got married and I made my home with you, I've sometimes felt like I was in the way! It's impossible for me to change my plain habits, or correct my faulty speech, I ain't so dumb but what I know when the young people wink at each other THE POORHOUSE FOR MOTHER 475 when I make a slip in my talk or don't act just right at the table. But what could I do? I have no place to go unless I choose the poorhouse, and I would rather die than go there. There's no pleasure in mixing with people who look down on me. Not that I want to be noticed much; I just want to be left alone to putter around doing the things I'm used to. I have a feeling I shan't be with you very much longer! I've lived mty life and done the best I knew how. If you can spare the south room for me, I'll spend a lot of my time sitting in the 'sunshine?resting." Big tears rolled down the big man's cheeks and convulsive sobs shook the broad shoulders. He laid his strong arms about his mother's frail shoulders and said, his voice choked with emotion: "The room shall be ready for you tomorrow. Father made no mistake when he predicted I would take care of you."