Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman St. Johns Stake The St. Johns Relief Society stake board was reorganized on April 30, 1922, at the stake conference. Mrs. Josephine Patterson was appointed president and she later selected for her counselors Mrs. Ethel Whiting and Mrs. Dora Udall. Mrs. Laura Day was chosen secretary. The retiring president, Mrs. Eliza L. S. Udall, has presided over the Relief Society of this stake for nearly thirty-five years, having been appointed to this position July 23, 1887. She has been a tireless and resourceful worker and has succeeded in overcoming many obstacles incident to building up the organization from a small beginning to its present efficient standard. She has worked with a love in her heart for the members of the entire stake and she has endeared herself to all the women of the Relief Society and all the members of the community. Mrs Udall was particularly fitted by nature, and by training, 'o meet the responsibilities of the difficult undertaking of organizing at this time a Rel'ef Society in this newly settled part of Arizona. During her many years of service she has manifested the earnest devotiom and industry of the pioneer in the cons ructive development of the community, and she has also ever been an inspiring character of culture and charm. Besides her puble work, she has been a devoted mother and has maintained a beautiful and hospitable home., Mrs. M. E. B. Farr, who has served as an officer on the board for the same period, was secretary until 1906, and since then has been the first counselor. Her work in both capacit'es has been of a high standard and she has discharged all of her duties in an efficient and energetic manner. Mrs. Margaret Jarvis has served as counselor since 1912, and she was treasurer of the organization for six years prior to this time. She has been a faithful officer and has been a great asset not only to the Relief Society but to the community because of her willing service in her profession of nurse. Mrs. Rachael E. Berry served as secretary since 1913, and Mrs. Wilmirth Dewitt served as treasurer since 1919. These two sisters have proved to be faithful and efficient in keeping the records of the society and maintaining a high standard in this particular branch of the work.