The General Procession James H, Anderson Treland's civil war continued during July, with prevailing successes for the Free State government. In Russia, in July, three hundred thousand of the Red army engaged in military maneuvers. Preparatory to active service. During July, 350 passenger trains were annulled, owing to railway strikes in the United States. The Sacramento valley, California, experienced its highest heat record on July 4, the emperature being 125 degrees in the shade. Railway workers' strike on July 1 resulted in disturbances in ten States, and many murders of non-tinion men in the United States. Radio sets in operation by boys in the United States are estimated to have reached to the number of 2,300,000 inj July. Hailstorms in July covered various districts in the United States from the Atlantic to the Pacific, causing millions of dollars damage to crops. Germany drew closer in July to a probable crisis which may result in either dividing the nation or the overthrow of the present government. Streetcar men's strike in Chicago, Ills., Buffalo N. Y., and other cities caused great inconveniences and some damage to the general public in July. "Mormon" Church statistics, as given out by E. O. Watsos, secretary of the Federated Council of Churches, in July, place the number of "Mormon" Church members in the United States at 587,000.; Palestine was assigned to Great Britain under permanent mandate from the league of nations council on July 24, thus insuring Britain's promise of that land for a Jewish homeland. The July Hague conference failed on July 18, owing to the attitude of the Russian delegation. An economic international conference may be held in Washington in November. France made further threats in July to invade Germany unless reparation payments are made promptly. The situation seems to be approaching a renewal of the war along the Rhine. Catholic priests have petitioned Pope Pius XI for permission to marry, setting forth that purity of life is not promoted by a denial of the law of nature, as is now the case with the Catholic clergy. 'President Harding, in a Fourth of July address, declared that a free American had the right to quit employment when he chose, and that a "free American has a right to labor without any other leave." But striking labor unions take a very different view. Gov. James M. Cox, Democratic candidate for President in 1920, visited Pope Pius XI in Rome on July 30. The pontiff came into the chamber dressed entirely in white, the only color shown being his gold chain holding the pectoral cross, advanced, stretched out his arms, bade his kneeling visitor to arise, and led him into his private study. WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING Chinese women in various parts of China held conventions in July, demanding equal suffrage there. In France, the movement for equal suffrage for women is finding little support among the masses of French women. Over 1,000 girls in the United States had tramped across the country from ocean to ocean this year up to July 31. This year's congressional elections in the United States will see twenty women candidates for election to Congress, and a fair prospect of some being successful. Mrs. Ben C. Hooper of Wisconsin was nominated in July to be Democratic party candidate for United States Senator receiving a big' popular vote. Miss Thelma Lenore Harrell, 17 years of age, of Savannah, - THE GENERAL PROCESSION 489 Georgia, passed a 'bar examination in July, and is the youngest lawyer in the United States. Miss Muriel McCormick granddaughter of John D. Rockefeller, has opened a millinery shop in Chicago, because she loves actual millinery work. Miss Alice M. Robertson of Oklahoma, now the only woman member of Congress, was nominated by her party in July, for reelection. Princess Yoland of Italy, who has been talked of as a possible prospective bride for the Prince of Wales, announced in July that she would not change her religion for any crown in Europe. Inez Phang, a Chinese miss, received the New York university prize in July for being the student most proficient in the politics and public affairs courses here. } Rev. Constance Mary Coltman, a woman minister in London, England, performed a marriage ceremony in July, said to be the first performed by a woman in Great Britain. Japan is being considerably disturbed by a delegation of American women who are there urging birth control as a means of preventing further increase of the Japanese population. Mrs. Irene Castle Tremaine, famous dancer and movie star, returned from Europe in July, with the announcement that prevailing fashions there for women were for longer skirts, uncovered ears, and beautiful des'gns in earrings. Beatrice Cohen, Hannah Davis, Anna Ginnsberg and Bertha Rogovin, New York girls, in July completed a trip on foot from New York to Oregon and back by the southern route, a distance of 15,000 miles. Mrs. Theresa Baldwin, St. Louis policewoman, says lack of parental supervision is the most prolific cause of poor morals among boys and girls in the United States, and in July issued a statement of painful facts in support of ther position. La Signora Linda who has been the attendant of the mother of Pope Pius XI for many years, is now intsalled in the Vatican in Rome as Mistress of the Wardrobe and orders the Pope's meals. She is the first woman to be allowed in the Vatican, and the Pope did it over the protest of many cardinals.