Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) MIRACLES?PART II?THE MIRACLES OF THE SAVIOR Relation of Jesus to the Father in the Performance of Miracles Jesus of Nazareth was the Jehovah of ancient Israel. He and' the Father are coordinate members of the Godhead in matters pertaining to this earth; i. ?., Jesus has power to do anything that his Father would do, but this coordination does not exclude the recognition of leadership or presidency when both are present. The reverence of the Son for the Father, and the love of the Father for the Son make them as one, and their power is so held in unison that Jesus said, "I and the Father are one" (Doc. & Cov. 93:3; and "All power is given unto me, both in heaven and on earth," (Matt. 28:18.) Individual and Cooperative Miracles Some miracles are performed by the Father and some by the Son individually. In the miracle of testimony, in the case of Peter, the immediate source of power was the Father. It was one of the Father's individual miracles, for Jesus was in the flesh. (See Matt. 16:15, 16, 17.) Some miracles are events in which both the Father and the Son participate. Such a one was the first miracle of "Mormonism." (See Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith, Chap. 2.) The Miracle of Resurrection. Concerning the miracle of the resurrection little is recorded as to who participated in that transcendental event; whether it was cooperative or individual is not stated, but that Jesus had the power to perform the miracle of immortal life seems quite evident from his declaration: ''Therefore doth the Father love me, because I - lay down my life?I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again." (See John 10:17, 18.) His immortal birth, at all events, was a voluntary act, as was his mortal birth. (See II Nephi 1:13.) His mortal birth at Bethlehem was announced by angels with the song of peace. (See GUIDE LESSONS 495 Luke 2:7-14.) At the sepulcher, angels who had evidently attended to some of the physical details of the great miracle testified as to the first self-victory over death on 'this earth. (See Matt. 28:5,6; Mark 16:5, 6; John 20:1-22.) ' Miracles and Power The miracles of Jesus were manifestations of power, but of the many performed we have no record of but one of self-preservation. (See Luke 4: 27-30.) In his miracles he demonstrated his power over nature by turning water into wine. (See John 2: 1-11; "Stilling the tempest" Luke 8:24; "Feeding the multitude," John 6:9; 9:13.) He showed his mastery over men by driving the profiteers out of the temple. (See Math. 21:12,13.) He proved his spiritual sovereignty by rebuking and casting out devils. (See Mark 5:1-17.) Sin was miraculously subject to his power of forgiveness. (See Matt. 9:2.) Loathsome, incurable diseases fled when he spoke. (See Luke 17:12-16.) Death gave up its victims at his command. (See John 11:32-44.) The Faith Factor! In case of personal healings, personal faith was an important factor. In some instances it was in the person healed, as in the case of the woman healed of a hemorrhage by touching the garment of the Master. (See Mark 5:25-34.) In the case of the hea!- ing of the servant of the Roman centurion the faith element was in someone other than the one healed. (See Matt. 8:5-13.) In the miracles operated upon nature, bad men, and evil spirits, Jesus operated with perfect effect without the elemen' cf faith other than his own. The Study of Miracles In studying a miracle, circumstances and place and purpose should be thought of, and to this, more than the verse references should be read. The parent student should scan the page for truth with a double intent, first, to know, and, second, to tell. Rehearsing the miracles of the Savior, with the right attitude, is a beautiful form of worshiping God in spirit and in truth. One who would be a good teacher of miracles should know the record from as many writers as have recorded them. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1, How is it possible for Jesus and his Father to be intrinsically one and yet not identically one? See John 17:11-22. 2. Of the many miracles performed by Jesus, which one alone was of a self-preservation nature? 496 ' o>) What is the miracle of testimony, and in which one was the Father the immediate source of power? Aa 4 faith as a factor in miracles, O what extent were the sins of man forgiven by Jesu he healed them of the palsy? Y Jenene - "il een es performing miracles did the Savior show the wisdom of doing nothing for people th for themselves?. I Tell how to study miracles. LESSON II N ows N Work and Business. {Second Week in November) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in November) "ROCK OF AGES" F. A. Jones, in his book Famous Hymns and Their Authors. Suys: "The most popular hymn in the English language, according to the general consensus of opinion is 'Rock of Ages.'" This hvmn, justly admired by W. E. Gladstone, was translated into both Latin and Greek by him. Reverend Augustus Montague Toplady, author of Rock of Ages, was born at Farnham, Surrey, England, 1740. His father died in battle while the son, destined to distinction, was yet an infant. ? His mother is described by one writer as a woman of "'fine and forceful character.'"' The family lived in Ireland while Toplady was a youth, as a consequence of which he attended Trinity College, Dublin, being graduated from that institution in his young manhood. He wa sordained to the English ministry in 1762, and served therein. For about fourteen years. He later became minister of the Chapel of French Calvanists in London, but his constitution was feeble and his energies soon expended. He'died at thirty-eight in the year 1778. A letter written to the London Times, by Henry Wells, gives to the world this unique story relating to the composition to the words of the hymn. "Toplady," says Mr. Wells, "was one day GUIDE LESSONS _ 497 overtaken by a heavy thunderstorm in Burrington Coombe, on the edge of my property (Blagdon), a rocky glen running into the heart of the Mendip Range, and there, taking shelter between two massive pillars of our native limestone, he penned the hymn 'Rock of Ages cleft for me.'" This story has been questioned by some authorities; its truth we are not in a position to either affirm or deny, but we do know that within the year the New York Times has published in the pictorial pages of its Sunday issue, a picture of a huge rock of limestone with an immense rift in the center, surrounded by a large group of people from all over England who had made a pilgrimage to this spot because of its connection with the hymn "Rock of Ages;" consequently it matters very little whether it is authentic or not, the Christian world has evidently made up its mind to cling to this story as one of its precious traditions. The hymn has undergone rather exceptional revision. It has been revised, as to paragraph structure, and an unusual number of changes have been made in its diction. No one may be quite sure, when turning to the hymn, whether he will find it in four stanzas or three, but after examining ten hymnals, I have concluded that the three-stanza version has pretty generally taken the place of four stanza version. We submit both versions (the original form is four stanzas): Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee: Let the wat?rs and the blood, From the riven side that flowed, Be of sin the double cure? Cleanse me from its guilt and power. Not the labor of my hands Can fulfil thy laws demands; Could my zeal no respite know, a? Could my tears forever flow, ) All for sin could not atone;.. Thou must save, and thou alone. Nothing in my hand I bring; Simp'y to thy cross I cling; Naked, come to thee for dress; Helpless, look to thee for grace; Vile, I to the fountain fly; Wash me, Savior, or I die. While I draw this fleeting breath, When my eyes shall close in death, When I rise to worlds unknown, And behold. Thee on thy throne, Rock of Ages, cleft for me; Let me hide myself in thee. The three stanza version is as follows: Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee: Let the water and the blood, From thy wounded side_which flow'd, Be of sin the double cure, Save from wrath and make me pure. Could my tears forever flow, Could my zeal no languor know, These for sin could not atone; Thou must save, and thou alone: In my hand no price I bring, Simply to the cross I cling. While I draw this fleeting breath, When my eyes shall close in death, When I rise to worlds unknown And behold thee on thy throne, Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee. The second stanza of the three stanza version, is a combination of the second and third stanzas of the four stanza version. Whether the story told by Wells is the real story of the inspiration of this hymn or not, it is very plausible. It would be natural for one who had just escaped death because of the prot-ction of two large pillars of stone to have his mind drawn out to the fact that Jesus is the Rock of Ages who will give protection to the soul and save us through all the storms of adversity and distress from spiritual death. This is the great thought of the hymn, coupled with the other thought that, were it not for the atonement, wrought by the Savior, we could not be saved. There is no doubt that some of the doctrines of the Calvanistic creed are discernible in the hymn; but on the whole, it is acceptable to all persons of Christian belief. The compilers of hymns for the use of Latter-day Saints have included it in their compilations. From a literary s andpoint, it is a gem of the first order. Nothing in the hymn is finer than the lines comparing the Christ to a Rock of Ages. If any one doubts, the poetic quality of this hymn he needs only compare it with a translation made by a native of East India, who has been successful in taking every vestige of poetry out. The East Indian, given the task of translating the hymn, writes: "Very old stone split for my benefit, Let me absent myself under one of your fragments." No proper study of this hymn can ignore the diction. It is GUIDE LESSONS 499 simple throughout and it carries the wonderful picture in a most effective manner. Note that the first line of the first stanza and the last line of the closing stanza repeat the well nigh matchless lines, "Rock of Ages, cleft for me, let me hide myself in thee." A line el'minated, which carried the message of the hymn is, "Other refuge have I none." The hymn fulfils the prime requisites of a hymn poem; it gives us exaltation of thought, exaltation of feeling, that is, religous and reverential in its character, and it casts all this exaltation of thought and feeling in form at once beautiful and effective. F. A. Jones calls it a hymn of passiontide; Mr. Benson puts "Rock of Ages" first in his list of hymns; Julian says, "No other English hymn can be named which has laid so broad and firm a grasp upon the English speaking world." Dr. Robinson declares it to be the first hymn of the first rank. Breed, in his volume entitled, Hymns and Hymn Tunes, says it is one of the four first hymns of Anglican hymnology. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give as many reasons as you can call to mind why it is appropriate to compare Christ to a Rock of Ages. 2. What is the L. D. S. Belief in relation to the atonement? Is the author's idea in keeping with modern revelations when he asserts that there is no 'salvation for mankind save through the atonement of Christ? 3. Can the atonement save us apart from our own effort? Toplady puts some emphasis on this thought: We can not be saved without the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, but we cannot be saved with it, unless we do the works of the Christ. It is at just this point no doubt that the Calvanism of Toplady creeps in. 4, Weask for a second time in these lessons, what does the word Anglican mean? 5. What does Mr. Breed mean when he says that Rock of Ages is one of the four first of Anglican hymnology? 6. A few days ago a lady in New York, who is a descendant of the Pratt family, originally of Vermont, of the branch of the family who remained East, asked me which Pratt it was who made contributions to the L. D. S. Hymnal. Of what was she speaking when she asked this question? Of whom was she speaking when she asked this question? "I 500 - LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November) THE PROBLEM OF DISCIPLINE IN EARLY ADOLESCENCE Many parents find it difficult to discipline properly the youth between the ages from twelve to seventeen. The authoritative method which seemed to be quite effective'in the early stages of the child's life does not work so well when the boy or girl reaches the teens. Along with bashfulness and self-conscious feelings, develop two significant tendencies: (1) the desire to break away from the control of parents, and to think and act independently; (2) the tendency to form group affiliat'ons outside the home circle. These tendencies come into being in response to two. Fundamental demands, individual responsibility and cooperative power. These two tendencies are of sufficient importance to justify special consideration. The Independence of Youth; Notwithstanding his timidity, the individual is, at this stage of life, most assertive and independent. This is the time the boy asks for reasons. And if father's and mother's reasons are not to his liking, he is quite ready to substitute his own plans and methods. It is very difficult for some parents to see why the boy or girl of sixteen or seventeen should be so different from the child of eleven or twelve. Why should the adolscent boy question his father's judgment? Why should he not be as obedient now as he has always been? Surely the judgment and advice of father is as good now as it was when the child was younger. It is not that the parents have grown less intell: gent and less deserving of obedience. It is not that the child jhas become very much wiser or less in need of intelligent direction. It is simply a tendency of human nature which now asserts itself in a strong form. Youth is passing from childhood to adulthood, from a life of dependence to a life of independence and responsibility. He will soon be deprived of the parental direction and will have to think and act on his own responsibility. It is well that this desire for independence, this inclination to think for himself, to form his own judgmen s of right and wrong, should express itself, and at a time when the guide to conduct does not depend entirely upon the boy himself. Certain