A NEW DEPARTURE.

	ONE of the most unique and pleasant
excursions of the season, and quite new in
its character, was to Brigham City recently,
the party consisting of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple people and a few invited guests, the
First Presidency, the Presiding Bishop and
one or two others, besides those regularly
engaged in that sacred house. To President
Lorenzo Snow belongs the credit and the
honor of originating the idea of such an
appropriate holiday rest and entertainment.
Everything had been planned beforehand,
the party was to visit Brigham City and
places adjacent, and the saints in that vicinity
were delighted to have this opportunity of
welcoming to their generous hospitality, the
venerable President of the Church, and his
Counselors as also his immediate friends,
and brethren and sisters Temple workers,
find their own revered. President Lorenzo
Snow, who for so many years had been the
leading spirit in everything connected with
the welfare of the people in that Stake of
Zion, spiritual and temporal.
	Leaving Salt Lake City at 3, p. m. July
22nd, the train pulled out amid cheers and
parting salutes of bystanders who had
come to see the party off. The day was
fine but a thunder storm came up, and when
the party reached Brigham City the rain
was pouring. Horses and carriages were
waiting, but the hundreds of children who
had come out in white, with flags and ban-
ners were obliged to retreat to the opera
house for shelter,—however when the long
line of carriages was ready and began the
line of march, the storm had abated, and
the children were ranged in line each side
along the way, bowing, smiling and waving
their banners, and saluting President Wood-
ruff and the party, who in return saluted
them from the carriages in passing. After
driving through the principal streets and
counter-marching—the party were taken
to the places where provision had been
made to entertain them respectively, and
feasted and rested until evening—when the
old-fashioned party was held in the dancing
hall of the opera house, which was hand-
somely decorated for the occasion. The
music was excellent, and there were some
wonderful old-time memories awakened as
the brethren and sisters participated in the
square cotilions, minuets, Scotch reels and
Roger de Coverly etc. Brother Dunbar had
his bagpipes along and everywhere he

