[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall
June 2, 2894. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding.  Meeting opened by singing,
“Glorious things are sung of zion.”
Prayer by Sister M. A. Hazon. Continued
by singing, “For the strength of the hills 
we bless thee.’  Minutes of previous 
meeting read and approved.
  President M. I. Horne said “Our Secre-
tary is still not permitted to meet with us
Her sister was buried from her house
yesterday.  Let us pray that she may yet
come and meet with us.”  President Horne
spoke of a Circular from Sister Lizzie Shipp,
concerning the opening of a class to study
Obstetrics, which was read by Sister Lydia
D. Alder.  President Horne also spoke of a
lady in our midst who had made a study of
children and mothers, said Professor Stew-
art thought a great deal of the lectures on
this subject, said it would be beneficial for
the daughters and young mothers to attend
them.  Counselor Stevenson spoke at some
length on the calamities that were being
poured out on the nations, and of the up- 
rising of the unemployed element in our
own land. “They do not know what they
are going to do, yet their way seems marked
for them" Counselor Stevenson also gave
many good instructions to the sisters re-
garding the raising of children, urged the
sisters to understand their duties, as wives
and mothers, and so live that God can bless
them.  Sister Holland urged the sisters to
acknowledge the blessings of our Heavenly
Father, and be faithful, for He would cut
his work short in righteousness.  Sister E.
Barrus also bore testimony, and spoke of
many things in her experience.
  Sisters sang “Come, come ye saints,”
Sisters Aird and Jedpeila bore testimony
and desired to be faithful. Sisters Raw-
lings and Kiddle also testified of many
glorious truths, and desired to ever be true.
  Sister Sarah Kimball said," I am thankful
to be here, and I feel to rejoice before the
Lord.  My mind went back to other days
as I came into the meeting this afternoon,
years ago when these meetings were first
organized.  President Horne had six
counselors seven to preside, myself and

