A GOLDEN WEDDING.

AT 3 p. m. the 13th day of June 1894,
nearly one hundred guests, met in the
north ward Relief Hall,Nephi, to celebrate
the golden wedding of our highly esteemed
friends, Brother Jacob G. and Sister Amy
L. Bigler.  The party was made up of the
children, grand children and great grand
children of the honored couple; the
Presidency of the stake, Bishops and their
Counselors, Relief Society stake officers,
local officers, and old time friends and
fellow laborers in the Gospel.
  After congratulations to the bride and
bridegroom, the company sat down to a
table well filled with the good things of
this world, very beautifully decorated, the
greatest attraction being the wedding cake,
the largest and most tastefully decorated
cake I have ever seen, and it tasted just as
good as it looked, the cake was made by
Mrs. M. A. Tanner, eldest daughter of the
aged couple.
  Brother and Sister Bigler were some of
the first settlers in Nephi, and the Bigler
family are one of the most respected fam-
lies in Nephi.  He has filled several
prominent positions in the church and is
now Patriarch of the Juab Stake, Sister
Bigler holds the office of first counselor to
Sister M. Pitchforth, President of the
Relief Society of the stake.  She
is a wise counselor and true and faith-
ful to every duty, we had a very enjoyable
time.
 The program consisted of songs, recita-
tions and speeches rendered by the children,
grand children and great grand children,
also friends of the respected couple, all very
appropriate for the occasion.  Sister S. A.
Cazier sang, a golden wedding song,
Brother Bigler’s sons, each one expressed
their feelings, said if they followed the
advice and teachings of their father they
would never go astray.  Brother Bigler
gave a short sketch of his early associations
with this church.  He referred to several
incidents in the life of Brother Joseph
Smith, testified to the instance of the
mantle of Joseph falling on Brigham
Young.  Brother Bailey testified to the
same.  Said he was not acquainted with
Brigham, and rose from his seat to see if it
was not Brother Joseph speaking. Sister
S. M. Love also testified to the same.
  Sister Bigler thanked her friends for their
presence and good wishes.  Brother Bigler
is in his 82nd year, and Sister Bigler in her
72nd year.  May they both live as long as
life is sweet to them, was the prayer and
benediction of all present.
