	     PLEASANT GROVE W. S. A.
	THE Woman Suffrage Association of
Pleasant Grove met in the meeting house
on Friday, May 25,1894, for the purpose of
effecting a reorganization. Vice-Presidents
Mary John and Marilla Daniels of Utah
County organization were present. Miss
P. E. Brown acted as temporary chairman.
Fifty-one members were enrolled and the
officers were elected.  Mrs. Emeline Rich-
ards, President, Mrs. F. E. Stewart first
vice-president, Miss Maggie Shipley second
vice-president, Miss Libbie Mayhen record-
ing secretary, Miss Grace Mayhen corres-
ponding secretary.  Miss Mary Swenson
treasurer.  Mrs. Anna S. Walker chairman
of second ward and Mrs. Elizabeth Stewart
chairman of third ward.  Members of
executive board.  Mrs. Sarah Foutz chair-
man, P. E. Brown, Lorena Dalley, Hattie
Thorne, Vie Smith, Maggie Adamson,
Elizabeth Davis.  Meeting adjourned for
one month. 	GRACE MAYHEN, Sec.

	HE that repents every day, when he
comes to die will have the sins of but one
day to repent of; short reckonings make
long friends.—Philip Henry.
	IF a man does not make new
acquaintances as he advances through life,
he will soon find himself left alone.  A
man should keep his friendship in constant
repair.—Doctor Johnson.
	AS a cross word begets a word that is
cross, so will a kind one beget its own
likeness.  If people only knew the power
they possess in being kind, how much
good would they achieve for themselves,
how much misery prevent for others!
	THREE very excellent things, and of
great utility, advised by Washington
Irving, are reading, conversation, and re-
flection.  By reading we treat with the
dead, by conversation, with the living, and
by reflection, with ourselves.  Reading en-
riches the memory, conversation polishes
the mind, and reflection forms the judg-
ment.  But of these noble employments of
the soul, were we to say which we think
the most important, we must confess that
reading seems to be the groundwork of the
other two; since without reading, contem-
plation is fruitless and conversation dull
and insipid.
	THE Young Woman’s Home, of Mem-
phis, Tenn., has been saved from sacrifice
by a wealthy gentleman named Binkley,
who paid a $6,000 mortgage.  “Name it
for my mother,” was the only condition of
the gift.


