[Column 2]
amused and interested the company by way
of variety.  In fact we remarked several
times he was like the king’s jester, “so
witty and full of originality.” Miss Salm-
on gave The Massacre of Zoroaster admir-
ably, the singing by the Temple choir,
an daquartette of local singers, were a charm
ing feature of the evening.
	At nine a. m. Saturday morning the
party were again in carriages enroute to
Mantua; the morning was delightful, the
air refreshing after the shower of the day
previous. At Mantua again hundreds of
children greeted the party, many of them
never having seen President Woodruff or
his Counselors before. Mantua is beautifully
situated in a little peaceful vale hemmed in
by high mountains. Here the meeting
house was decorated with flowers and vines
and flowering plants and shrubs, the
streamers above the stand where the Presi-
dency were seated bore a Welcome in blue
and gold letters. Here President Woodruff
and both his Counselors also Apostles Lo-
renzo Snow and Franklin D. Richards each
made brief and appropriate speeches, en-
couraging the people and speaking in praise
of the beautiful farm homes, the enterprise
and thrift manifest on every side.
	The dinner at Mantua was a most de-
lightful success, in the larger room were six
tables, about twenty people were seated at
each of these, and in a smaller room we were
told there were three tables of about the
same seating capacity. The great variety
and the skilled cooking was indeed notic-
able. Beautiful vases of flowers ornament-
ed the scene, the largest and ripest straw-
berries and cherries added to the effect, and
honey in the comb white and pure, the most
delicious cream, together with all that makes
up a dinner fit for a king, or the most fas-
tidious Epicure was there in abundance—
“the tables” (might well have) groaned
with the weight of the feast.” After dinner
President Snow in the most pleasing man-
ner announced that toasts and sentiments
from the guests would be in order and
“opened the ball” himself in a humorous
way. This was followed by several of the
company some being called for and others
responding voluntarily. The Bishop of
Mantua had his share of congratulations,
and everything passed off pleasantly. While
the party were dining the school house
filled with children awaited the return of
the Presidency and party, who spoke to
them for a few minutes previous to leaving
on the return trip to Brigham City.
	On the way home the party were driven
past the reservoir which is on the top of a
high hill at the mouth of the canyon only
reached by a winding road, the water is
cold and of excellent quality, and in
sufficient quantity to supply the City.
	A concert in the evening at the Opera
House made a fitting finish of the day’s
enjoyment and festivities. The entertain-
ment of the evening at the Opera House
was a grand affair and the management for
the visitors and guests was quite perfect, as
indeed was the entire program from first to
last. The concert was given in honor of
the Salt Lake Temple Party. The archway
over the platform was artistically covered
with roses so beautifully arranged that none
but an accomplished artist who knew how
to make his work effective from the seats in
the body of the house, could have made it
such a success. The perfume of the sweet-
scented flowers pervaded the atmosphere of
the room. The concert began with music
by the Mendon Brass Band, followed by a

[Column 3]
song “Come where the Lilies Bloom” by
the Brigham City Choir, beautifully ren-
dered, Recitation, “The Martyred Mother.”
Ray Evans, very pathetic and feelingly
given showing thought and study of the
situation.  The Temple Choir, a
double quartette, “When Evening’s Twi-
light,” was brilliantly executed. Then there
was more music by the band, meanwhile
Brother W. C. Dunbar dressed in costume
for the old time favorite song “My Old
Wife and I.” A violin quartette by Mag-
nus Benson and others was one of the most
interesting features of this enjoyable concert.
An original poem given by Lula in her
quaint and sedate style was very well re-
ceived and heartily and graciously applaud-
ed.
(POEM BY LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.)
June is, I think, the happiest month of all the
year;
Its bounteous gifts of flow’rs and fruits, so
luxurious appear.
The laughing brooklet, and the bird’s sweet carol
to its mate,
All speak of gratitude and love, which should our
hearts elate.
The hearts of all who know the worth of friend-
ship being tried,
In little voyages, to and fro, upon Life’s Ocean
wide.
I’m wondering, if, the past year’s voyage, this
grand old Ship, at Sea,
Came freighted with such gifts for each, as it has
brought to me.

Not wealth of silver, or of gold; nor gems of
worldly kind;
But Heavenly joys, with faith increased, and won-
drous peace of mind
The kingdoms of this world can claim no place,
no parity,
Compared with the pure love of Christ, unfailing
charity,

And this rare gift true Friendship brings unto the
chaste and meek;
They do receive, and they do find, who humbly
ask and seek.
“Nearer my God to Thee,” we sing; if Christ’s
pure love we show,
We do approach Him, day by day, and nearer
like Him grow.
But of this beauteous summer month, and this
delightful place,
I thought to tell, yet wandered off, somehow, to
broader space.
Excuse me, I return, and would your kind at-
tention claim;
The First of June was Brigham’s Day, this City
bears his name;

The Salt Lake Temple he designed; truly appro-
priate,
Their first vacation, all its workers, thus should
celebrate.
What generous hospitality from our Box Elder
Friends!
How can we praise our God enough for all the
good He sends?
Mantua—for the birth place named, of him who
wisely plan’d
This sacred, great Excursion, how excellent and
grand
Its situation in the hills, its people brave and
kind;
What pleasing memories often will present them
to the mind.

Again, of Heber Kimball think, who stood by
Brigham’s side;
Long o,er the great Endowment work commis-
sioned to preside;
We rarely think to mention that these men, so
true in heart,


Had birthday's both in June, and only fourteen
	days apart.
We visit Willard City named for one most 
	staunch and good;
’Twas Willard who with Brigham Young and 
	Heber C. once stood.
Why not to his dear memory a loving tribute
	pay?
Remembering that the Twenty-fourth of June
	was his birthday.
The Deseret News, to whose good works, so very
	much we owe,
Was Willard Richard’s paper first, forty-four
	years ago;
The first Post Office Utah knew, he was the 
	Master in; 
(’Tis hard to pause when of such men biogra-
	phies begin.)

But I would turn again to God, and to His blessed
	Son;
And mention, if I may, something which they for
	us have done:
A year ago last Spring, we, through the Prophet
	Wilford learned,
The key in favor of the Saints, in Jesus’ hand was
	turned.
Who has not felt the force of this? Who has not
	seen the pow’r
Of God, more plainly manifest,since that event-
	ful hour?
I testify that I do know, and in each fiber sense
The truth of Wilford Woodruff’s words,and God’s
	Omnipotenee.
Christ holds the key; that loving hand through
	which the nail was driv’n;
His prayers unto His Father reach; His people 
	were forgiven;
Their offering was accepted, and, with Joseph at
	the head
Of this Last Dispensation,  unerringly they’re
	led.
God bless the Prophets of our day, who for His
	people care;
And bless the honest, pure in heart,and virtuous,
	everywhere;
Who love the truth, and speak the truth, and
	live it, day by day;
And help us all to overcome the evils in our way.

God bless the Temple workers,and great light on
	them bestow;
Especially our President and head, Lorenzo
	Snow.
And multiply all blessings on our kind Box Elder
	friends;
Then, how can we praise God enough, for all the
	good He sends.

	Instrumental selections by Holst 
Brothers were exceptionally good and Mrs.
Maggie Hull sang with much feeling a
favorite Scotch Ballad.
	B. M. Young who was to have given
"Chinese Imitation in character, gave in-
stead some comic acting in costume, which
created quite a furore with the younger part
of the audience, and then came a comic
selection by a few of the Brigham City
Choir “Peter, Peter Pumpkin Eater.”
	Changing the character of the entertain-
ment was an original true story composed
and read by Nephi Anderson.  The reading
and the scenes described were restful and
true to life and portrayed the talent of the
young man in story telling, though the
pictures were not so powerfnlly drawn as
to be at all exciting.  Next came Brother
Dunbar with his wonderful Scotch Bag-
pipes which never failed to be “a drawing
card” for the applause of the audience,
especially with his peculiar explanations,
given so graphically as no one else could
do but Brother Dunbar himself.  Mrs.

