[Column 2]
Barrington, John and I were talking of it
and saying it would do Mrs. Bland good to
hear some of these folks praising her hus-
band and telling her he had saved them
from want in sickness and in times of
scarcity.”
	“I am sure Mrs. Bland will help any one
you recommend and as I am to see her this
evening I will take your orders for what
is wanted, or will you call yourself my
good woman and explain the circumstances.
“But Mr. Barrington you must not go out
again tonight, such a dreadful gale is blow-
ing and the snow is falling too now I see,”
and Mrs. Austin looked out of the window,
“you cannot risk your health like that you
are not strong, John,” (she said appealing
to her husband, as she saw Mr. Barrington’s
earnest look of determination,”) don’t con-
sent to the visit to Mrs. Bland tonight.”
The good man thus entreated, said to his wife
“if he must go then after supper I will har-
ness up old Betty, and we will drive over
and you can go along Patience well wrapped
up, ’twill do you good and be a nice
change.”
	The minister knew not what to say,
what would Deacon Meredith and his wife
think, and in fact did John Austin and his
good wife know that the gossips were busy
with his good name, ought he to tell them,
no why should he, he would leave all, to
work itself out, he felt some assurance he
knew not why that he was guided, yet he
was reluctant to have these good and true
frieuds hear these scandals, if they had not
been previously informed. For a moment
he felt like a coward, then his moral heroism
conquered and he decided to submit to the
situation. Supper over he prepared him-
self for the drive, and though his heart beat
more rapidly, and his pulse quickened, he
felt that once in the open air he should
regain self-control.
	When John Austin drove up to the
house, he exclaimed, “why hang it all
here’s Deacon Meredith’s sleigh, if I’d
a known he was here, old Betty should
have stayed in the barn, I’m not fond of
the way the Deacon talks nowadays, in-
sinuatingly, and I’ve told him a time or
two to speak out and not go beatin about
the bush, I don’t care to come in contact
with him in a strange house, he’ll provoke
me to sayin something.” Mr. Barrington
kept silence—“aren't you goin to let us get
out;” said his wife, but just then “the
hired man” as Josiah the Doctor’s faithful
old butler called himself in this free country,
came out, took old Betty by the rein, and
the sleigh was soon unloaded.
	Ushered into Mrs. Bland’s drawing-room
after laying off their wraps and shaking off
the snow, there sat Deacon Meredith and
his wife complacently looking at the fire,
and Mrs. Bland’s quick glance observing
something unusual in the face of her young
friend, the minister, in whom she felt the
deepest interest was scarcely able to go
through the usual formalities always
punctiliously observed by well-bred people.
	A silence almost unbroken fell upon the
company, after they had exchanged greet-
ings and were seated, Mr. Barrington felt
his heart beat so loudly he feared it might
be noticed, then Deacon Meredith unable
longer to maintain control of his feelings
said, “I know why I’m here Madame Bland
though I came without your invitation
but I didn’t expect to see John and Patience
Austin.”
	“There’s no need of any apology for
them” said Mrs. Bland, “they are always

[Column 3]
welcome, and so are you all, and I am very
glad to see you, and hope you will have a
pleasant evening. I’ve been thinking how
selfish I have been of late shutting myself
away from all social life since my great
bereavement, and was only waiting for
more favorable weather to send out for some
of my neighbors to come and visit me in
a quiet sort of fashion, and I have also
thought much of the poor in whom the
Doctor interested himself so much, and felt
how they must miss him.’ Here was
Patience Austin’s opportunity, “I’m so
glad Mrs. Bland you’ve spoken like that
for that’s just why I’ve come out on a
stormy night like this to see you—you know
our young minister was bent on comin and
he’s not fit to walk so far, an in the storm,
and I wanted him to stop in, and John had
been out lookin after the wants of some of
the poor folks, and we’d been talkin about
some help for em and made up our minds
to tell Mr. Barrington to ask you for some
things, as we know the Doctor used to give
last winter, and when we found Mr Bar-
rington determined to come through the
snow and wind, John said he’d harness up
and I should come too and tell you myself
all about it, so that’s why we’re here, and
we know why we’ve come as well as the
Deacon does.” So here was a pill for Dea-
con Meredith to swallow; but Mrs. Bland
was ill at ease, she felt something must be
wrong from the minister’s strange look.
Patience Austin proceeded to explain some
needs of the poor and Mrs. Bland assured
her the help should be furnished and that
John and herself should distribute accord-
ing to their own discretion. All this time
Mr. Barrington sat silent, finally he noticed
Lady Anna’s harp in the corner of the
drawing room, and without asking per-
mission he uncovered the instrument and
struck some minor chords, the tone was like
magic in the hearts of all present. It was
like a harp divine, as unexpected as the
visit of angels, in fact these simple Puritans
had never heard a harp before, and it moved
them more than the eloquence of the great-
est preacher they had ever listened to, and
that was a great deal, and as the young
musician played on and on from some of
the great masters, every one in the room
was moved to tears, by emotions of tender
feeling that no language could express, and
Barrington had conquered without a word,
and the council of ministers was never
called. Refreshments were brought in and
while the Deacon and John Austin partook
of the bounteous hospitality of the hostess
of the house, and drank to her health, of
the excellent old wine brought from over
the sea, they forgot all their grievances,
and shook hands at parting, with the same
brotherly love that had formerly been their
custom when any occasion brought them
together. And the young minister drove
home with his friends, in fact he guided the
horse and unharnessed it, for the wine
had told upon John Austin, who was not
accustomed to taking anything strong, and
he was half asleep ere they reached the
little cabin in the woods. Deacon Mere-
dith’s wife afterwards told Patience Austin
(in confidence) that the Deacon was far
from sober, and so excited that she thought
he had lost his wits; however he was all
right again in the morning.


