[Column 2]
pleased to have so many of the brethren
with us, could feel the good spirit with us,
it unites us.”  President Young advised
meeting together often, it unites us, strive
to keep the holy spirit with us continually,
be firm in our faith and integrity, encourage
each other.  Speak kind words to, and of
each other while living and not wait till we
are dead. Sisters can appreciate each
others work, there are some who are always
ready and willing to work and help others.
Sister Eliza said if you want help, go to
the workers, they are always ready and
willing to help others, sisters, read the
Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Cove-
nants, read and digest them.  Our strength
lies in God and he will give us the victory
for our integrity we need not fear, etc.”
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke a short time
on our duties and responsibilities, also
spoke of our wheat, said she would like to
get advice from the brethren as to the best
way to preserve and take care of it, we
must take care of it, for it has been said by
one of our prophets that the time would
come when a bushel of wheat would bring
a bushel of gold, we shall be called on for
bread, this wheat is only to be used in case
of famine, etc.
	Bishop Cutler spoke on the wheat also,
and of the time of famine which we might
expect according to the prophecies, thought
the work the sisters were doing was very
commendable.  After singing Conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.  Benediction by
William Southwick.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened with
singing and prayer, a few reports were
given in, after which Sister Deborah Bill-
ings said if her testimony of the truth of
this work would help any one she would
feel repaid for her timidity, said she had
lived in Nauvoo, in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, under the sound of his
voice had also passed through the mobbings
in Missouri spoke of the organization of
this society in Nauvoo and on various
other subjects.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the very
very great work this is in which we are en-
gaged.  Our Prophet realized the greatness
thereof; wished the sisters had more houses
of their own, each branch should have a
house if possible, was sure the brethren
would help them build, they could work
together and help each other and could do a
great deal without money.  Let us pray
for Sister Zina our President who presides
over this great organization which extends
to so many lands, she needs the prayers of
our sisters as much as President Woodruff
does and we always remember to pray for
Him, we need the prayers of the faith-
ful the speaker gave some of her early
experiences, knew Joseph Smith was a
Prophet as soon as she saw him, she knew
him when only a child, had a strong
testimony of the truth of this work.  Spoke
of the faithfulness of the people in the
days of the Nauvoo troubles. She ex-
horted the young sisters to bear testimony
to the truth thereby keeping it bright, ad-
vised the sisters to read the Lectures on
Faith, and talk about them, said it would
strengthen their faith, for they would need it
soon.  Spoke on the wheat question, told
how surprised, and pleased some of the
ladies were, that she had met in Chicago,
to hear of our saving wheat, “I invited
them to come to Zion and we would feed
them, if they should be in need, what a
terrible thing it is to be hungry, some of us
have had an experience in the days of

[Column 3]
want.”  Spoke of beautifying our homes
providing work for the needy, of the waste
of grain made into liquor etc. thought
when women had the right to vote there
would not be so many saloons in the land.
Spoke on silk culture, advised the putting
out of mulberry trees or cuttings. Spoke
of the medals awarded at the fair for the
silk, and upon the laws of health, thought
through faith and prayer and correct living.
a great deal of the suffering now endured
might be done away with etc.
	Sister Zina said Brother Brigham ex-
horted her to work up the silk industry
and we might just as well have been wear-
ing silk of our own raising and exporting
half a million of dollars worth every year,
if we had taken hold of it, and put our
children at it; and a great many things
might be manufactured here instead of
sending to Babylon for them, “teach your
children the laws of life and health, that
they may live to the age of a tree.” Spoke
against round dancing—thought many had
been injured by indulging in this practice.
	Sister John had been highly edified,
thought it a good plan to change our con-
ferences from one place to another, it gives
all a chance to attend; was pleased to see
so many young sisters, they will have to
take the responsibility some day in the
place of the older sisters, advised them
to take Sister Zina’s counsel, in regard to
reading the Lectures on Faith, spoke of the
power of faith in the healing of the sick,
the sisters have faith as well as the brethren.
She spoke on various other subjects, silk
industry, home manufactures etc. Sisters
Zina D. H. Young and E. B. Wells had
each spoken on, and advised the sisters to
prepare the straw and make their own hats,
bonnets etc.
	Sister John announced that there would
be a Woman Suffrage meeting held in Provo
on the following day and all were invited to
attend and advised the young ladies to join
that association etc.  There was a call
made for all who knew the Prophet Joseph
Smith to arise to their feet, sixteen
responded to the call.  After singing,
conference was adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bishop Cutler.

	ON Tuesday, May 1st, at 2 p. m. a
Relief Society meeting was held in Provo,
President Mary John presiding.  Singing,
“O my Father,” which was rendered in a
beautiful manner by a choir of young
ladies from Spanish Fork.  Elder Oliver
Huntington in a few remarks gave his bless-
ing to the sisters, after which Sister Z. D.
H. Young addressed them, said Joseph turned
the key for woman, “he laid the foundation
of the power that we have today, all that
love the truth show it in their faces.  We
all have a portion of the Deity implanted
in us, we are the women that God has
chosen, and let us be true to each other and
never speak slightingly of each other.  Our
Savior appeared first to a woman after his
resurrection.  The Relief Society is or-
ganized all over the world wherever this
Gospel has been preached.  We can give
glory to God in all things for we feel our
dependance on him.  The Jews rejected him,
and if we had obeyed counsel we would
have been better off today.  We must
acknowledge the hand of God in all things,
and he will sustain us.”  Urged the
mothers again to read the Lectures on
Faith, to take a few minutes each morn-
ing and they would never miss it, and when


we have the spirit of God we can work
better. "Let us take the Exponent, for
we can gain knowledge there that will 
exalt us that we may become companions
for our husbands. We are helping our
Savior to save souls, let us never lose sight
of the mark of the high calling." Spoke 
of the great work the sisters are doing and 
how often they helped the brethren to 
furnish and decorate their meeting houses; 
said in some settlements the sisters go 
around and help those who have large
families to do their sewing, and house
cleaning, thus lifting heavy burdens from 
them, her remarks were lengthy and varied
and full of good counsel and instructions to 
the sisters. 
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke of the sweet
spirit that had been with us today, of the 
good counsels of Sister Zina; said, she is
full of love, charity and kindness. 
Joseph was educated of the Lord, and we 
want to learn all we can for the world to 
come, for we cannot be saved in ignorance. 
	Sisters Gates and John both made good 
remarks, which would make the minutes
too long if reported. After singing, 
" Earth with her ten thousand flowers,"
meeting adjourned. Benediction by Sister
Billings. 				C. DANIELS, Sec. 
		BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society Conference of the 
Bear Lake Stake convened in Bloomington, 
Idaho in the Meeting-house, May 27, 1894. 
On the stand were President William 
Budge and Counselor W. J. Rich, and all
the leading women of the Stake, President
J. P. Lindsey presiding. Singing, "Do 
what is Right." Prayer by William
Budge. Singing,  "Home, Sweet Home."
The roll called and minutes of the two
previous meetings read and received.
President J. P. Lindsay, in her opening re-
marks wondered if the sisters fully realized
the importance of their mission on the earth
and the many blessings they enjoy from
time to time. 	
	The following branches were then re-
ported all as in good running order: 
Bloomington, Sister Nelson; St. Charles
Fish Haven, Garden City, Lake Town, 
Woodruff, Paris, First and Second Wards, 
Nounan, Ovid, Liberty, Montpelier, 
Bennington, George Town, Dingle, 
Thomas Fork and Preston. 
	President Lindsay gave some instructions
concerning the keeping of grain, urged
the sisters to procure good places for their 
grain, and take good care of it. Coun-
selor Collins explained to the sisters the 
great necessity of attending their meetings
regularly and trying to improve themselves
said that the Lord would bless the labors
of the honest in heart. 
	Meeting adjourned by singing, "God is 
Love." Benediction Bishop Humes. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, "On
the Mountains Tops Appearing." Prayer
by Bishop West of Paris. Singing, "Think
gently of the erring one."
	President Lindsay said that we had re-
ceived instructions to hold our regular 
meetings once in two weeks, desired the 
presidents to comply with this request as 
far as possible. Gave further instructions
concerning the storing of grain, spoke of 
the sisters taking the WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
said that the paper should be sustained. 
	Counselor L. M. Hart was delighted to 
see so many present, said it was the great-
est representation we had ever had in con-
