THE FOURTH OF JULY.

A HUNDRED years, or more, so long ago,
That neither we, or any of us know—
Save what we’re told in histories pages,
Or is handed down thro’ patriotic sages,
Upon this day made great by song and story
Our brave forefathers in heroic glory,
Proclaimed the Declaration which has made.
Our country free, and foreign powers afraid.
That Declaration signed by famous men
Is our Escutcheon, blazoned with a pen
In letters riven deep, whose meaning glows
In ev’ry heart where love of freedom flows.
And we are glad to celebrate today
That anniversary and our homage pay
To fair Columbia, and the flag so grand.
Which floats today throughout this favored land.
This land of Liberty so dearly bought,
When for their rights our brave forefathers fought
That we their children, and others who might
	come,
To find in this broad land a happy home,
Might all enjoy the freedom God has given,
To all mankind to worship Him in heaven
As seemeth good, no matter what the creed
For ev’ry one best knoweth his own need.
And ever since where’er the flag is found,
On this proud day the people gather round,
And beat the drums, and martial music play, 
And march triumphantly, the grand highway,
With flags and banners floating in the air,
And joyous shouts resounding everywhere,
While of Columbia’s fame the people sing
Until the echoes through the welkin ring.
The stars and stripes are hailed with great
	applause.
The simple heraldry of Freedom’s cause,
Long may they wave, we love these symbols pure,
While peace and plenty make our homes secure,
And the fair goddess who presides o’er all
Sweet Liberty, O, may she never fall
From that high pedestal, but ever stand
The guardian angel of this far-fam’d land.
Within these peaceful vales far in the West,
Guarded by sentinels with snow-white crest,
Are sons and daughters who the truth revere
Born heirs to liberty, who know no fear,
They are the offspring of those noble sires
Whose Pilgrim fathers kindled Freedom fires
Far in the East, they lit the sacred shrine,
And lo! its glory in the West doth shine.
And on this glorious day we celebrate
The Independence which has made us great,
With gratitude to God our bosoms swell,
We know Our Father doeth all things well;
And He our country’s honor will defend,
He is the God of battles, and the Friend
Of those, who trust in His Almighty care,
And victory giveth so His words declare.
And we acknowledge His all powerful hand
Is over all in this and ev’ry land;
And while we yield obedience to His laws
He will protect us and uphold our cause;
Will give us peace, and homes wherein to dwell
He is the God who favors Israel;
So let us live we can the blessings claim,
Which He has promised us thro’ Jesus name,
June, 29, 1894. E.B.W.


