[Column 2]
wives and mothers held that inherent
modesty sacred: they would not allow men
doctors to wait upon them in their most
trying sicknesses.  I have in the past year
when reading of the fearful atrocities per-
petrated by men of the profession, felt to
exclaim, would to Heaven our women of
the Nineteenth Century were more like the
Moslem women of far off ancient Arabia
in some respects!  We are taught that true
modesty is one of the most lovely orna-
ments a woman can possess, I hold it next
to virtue as the most necessary: and al-
though a woman may have beauty of form
and face, intelligence, wealth and all other
attainments combined, without pure
unadulterated modesty she falls far short of
what God intended her to be.
	I do not desire you to misunderstand me.
I have great respect and esteem for compe-
tent men practitioneers, yet, I wish to say
words of encouragement and faith in
those of our own organization, (I write-
from personal experience,) who can so fully
comprehend our needs and wants as they,
who so truly feel and sense our suffering as
refined, educated gentle womanhood? Who
so readily tell and judge every feeling of the
heart, the mind the working’s of natures
laws as those of a similar constitution?
Therefore, let us sustain them, not only in
words but deeds, prove our loyalty and
friendship, respect and approval of their
undertakings. Patronize and love them,
use our influence, strengthen them by our
confidence and defence on every occasion
possible.
	Ignorance is a strong factor where its
power is acknowledged and allowed to grow,
yet numbers nor force cannot long with-
stand the light of intelligence, the rays of
superior knowledge of brain qualities,
where principles of sound judgment and
true wisdom are arrayed. Just as soon as
women are themselves fully awakened to
the realization of their own qualifications,
their real value as doctors and nurses, just
so soon will every one else, men included
acknowledge them as such.
	We wish our doctors (our lady doctors)
every success. We desire them to be
highly educated in all branches of scientific
study, to improve every opportunity to
grasp every advanced idea that presents
itself, to keep pace with the glorious age
we live in, to be thorough, accurate,
systematic and capable; to have dignity
and gentleness combined, modesty, purity,
neatness, order and love pervade their every
walk in life and thereby, prove that they
are just what we would wish them to be,
ministering angels on earth.
	J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
Salt Lake City, July 3rd, 1894.


