[Column 1]
and her cousin from the first time of meet-
ing them on board the ship.” He could
not solve the question to his own satisfac-
tion, and the great pines crackled and
swayed in the wind, as though speaking to
him of the unseen, and the salt sea breeze
came strongly wafted upon the air, and as
he listened closely he heard the sound of
the roaring, turbulent waters in the dis-
tance, and the sun was just setting in the
Western sky of which he caught a glimmer-
ing view between the pines. He had never
felt the solemnity of nature so keenly as he
did at this moment, his soul was subdued
in meditation, yet sensitive to all pervading
outside influences. His thoughts reverted
to the green fields of his own country, the
quiet peacefulness he had often felt when a
boy as he wandered alone through the
sweet smelling meadows, with hedges of
luxuriant foliage, which had seemed so
strikingly beautiful, and yet in his heart he
had realized a longing for something wilder
and grander, something which would lift
him to sublimer heights; now he had at-
tained to some of the aspirations his spirit
had yearned for, he had no more the peace-
ful green fields and the flowering hedges,
with the calm and restfulness such scenes
inspire, but the wild and grand sublimity
of immense forests and the great tumultuous
roar of ocean to listen to and to gaze out
upon with admiration and wonder; and yet
above all he reflected, here as well as there,
the same heaven was shining above all the
world. And his mother, could she look
down upon her boy (for she was his ideal of
perfection in woman) and the thought of
her so long dead came like the rushing of a
river over him, and all at once he felt as
though she were by his side, as if he felt
the touch of her soft, gentle hand upon his
forehead caressing him, and peace entered
his soul, and he could fancy he heard the
rustle of the soft folds of her silken gown,
but in a moment it was gone, and he
realized only the roar of the sea and the
raging of the wind, but he was calmer in
his spirit. He bowed down in the lonely
forest, for he had strayed far from the path
to his dwelling, and poured forth a fervent
prayer for safety, for deliverance from evil,
from the snares of his enemies. Then he
wended his way in the direction of the
humble cabin, where he knew not if he
should be welcome, or whether, his hostess
too had listened to the poisoned darts of the
slanderer. He opened the door as was his
custom, and Mrs. Austin met him him with
an anxious countenance, “husband and I
thought something must have happened,
you are very late, supper has been waiting
for hours, what is the matter? Surely you
have a chill, the cold wind has numbed you,
you are pale and trembling, here take some
tea, sit down in this warm corner by the
fire, let me rub your hands; father,” (call-
ing to her husband) but by this time Mr.
Barrington interrupted her saying, “there
is no need of alarm. I am not ill, a little
cold and coming into the warm room and
seeing your kindly face almost overcame
me, the wind is very high, and the sea roars
frightfully, I hope all is well with the
cottagers this is a hard winter for the
poor.” Hearing this Mr. Austin replied
that he had been to visit several during the
day, who were in need of comforts, and
added “Patience and I were just saying be-
fore you came, we would ask you to say to
Mrs. Bland, would she help some of them
to whom the Doctor gave in times of need,
for they miss him mightily.” “Yes Mr.

