[column 2]
Armeda S. Young gave the recitation
“Whistling In Heaven,” getting a full
share of applause from the audience. “The
Whippoorwill’s Song” by the Brigham
City choir was sweetly and effectively given,
and music by the Mendon Brass Band
closed the brilliant performance; the verdict
of all was a most delightful evening.
	Sunday morning dawned beautiful and
bright, and early the streets began to fill
with boys and girls, young men and maid-
ens wending their way from all parts of
the city towards the meeting house, where
at 10 a. m. the Sunday school exercises
began.
	President Woodruff and his counselors
George Q. Cannon (Supt. of Sunday
Schools) and Joseph F. Smith, and Presi-
dent Lorenzo Snow, Apostle F. D. Richards,
President Rudger Clawson and counselors
of Box Elder Stake were in the stand.
Other brethren and sisters of the visitors
were on the platform and the sight was in-
deed a charming and glorious one. The
body of the house filled with the younger
children was like a flower garden only far
more effective because instead of flowers
only, there were the intelligent faces and
bright eyes beaming with joy and happiness
of many hundreds of children, the “Hope
of Israel.”  There were some exercises
excellently well rendered, both in singing
and recitation, but the time was mostly
occupied by the First Presidency who made
brief addresses and asked a few questions
suited to the occasion.
	At 2 p. m. the Tabernacle was filled with
the grown people who had given place to
the children in the morning,and the preach-
ing by the First Presidency was solemn and
impressive, though full of encouragement
and hope to those who were trying to live
their religion and follow the Savior’s teach-
ing. President Woodruff and his counse-
lors seemed filled with the Holy Spirit and
with a desire to bless and comfort the
people, and it must have been exceedingly
gratifying to the Saints in Box Elder to
have an opportunity of hearing the aged and
venerable President speak of his long and
wonderful experience in proclaiming the
Gospel from almost the commencement of
this work.  His intimate associations with
the Prophet Joseph his Brother Hyrum
and many of the Apostles who are now
passed behind the vail.  President Wood-
ruff’s sermon seemed almost like testimony
from the spirit world.
	Notwithstanding all the precious things
that were said during the morning and
afternoon services, the evening meeting was
even more intensely interesting and will
never be forgotten by those who were
present.  The singing was particularly ap-
propriate and elevating  The stand was
filled with the presiding authorities of the
Church and of Box Elder Stake of Zion
Bishops etc. as well as Elders who
were Temple workers.  Meeting opened
with singing the anthem, “I will lift up
mine eyes” by Brigham City Choir, prayer
by Bishop Valentine, singing “Hymn of
Praise” by Temple Choir.  President
Snow announced that there would be short
speeches from one to five minutes by the
Temple workers including himself.
	Bishop John R. Winder was the first
speaker, he was followed by Elder John
Nicholsen chief recorder, Elders Hiram
Groesbeck, N. W. Jones, James Sharp, W.
W. Riter, Jos. H. Dean, Bishop Romney,
Elder William Salmon, Bishop Sheets,
Elder Theodore McKean, Elders W. C.

[column 3]
Dunbar. McAllister and L. A. Wilson.
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith
and Minnie J. Snow, each spoke
very effectively for a few minutes, after
which Elders Samuel W. Richards and
Adolph Madson made short speeches.
	President Woodruff addressed himself to
the large congregation most impressively
by asking the question “Of all the mil-
lions of the inhabitants of earth, who
among them are assured that the judg-
ments of God will not overtake them?
He answered “None but those who have
the priesthood and are entitled to its bless-
ings and privileges.  The Lord has com-
menced his work of pouring out judgments
on the earth as has been prophesied by in-
spired men.  The powers of the air are
more destructive than ever, and this means
something.  The Priesthood has power and
the heavens will listen to the prayers of
those holding the holy Priesthood.  Great
changes are at our doors and many who are
present and their children will live to
see them.”
	*	*	*	*	*	*	
	President Woodruff seemed filled to
overflowing with the spirit of prophecy and
solemnly testified that the angels had left
the portals on high and were now among
the nations of the earth.  His remarks
were full of inspiration and the spirit of
prophecy, and the impression made upon
the congregation can never be effaced from
the memory of those who listened to his
voice on that wonderful occasion.  Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon also bore a power-
ful testimony. The meeting was closed
with the entire assembly singing the
Doxology.   Apostle Franklin D. Rich-
ards pronounced the benediction.
	Monday morning the company proceeded
in carriages to Willard City, stopping a
few moments at Three Mile Creek where
the Sunday School children and their
teachers had gathered with flags and ban-
ners to welcome the President and party.
The Presidency responded, greeting the
children happily, and the party wended
their way to Willard, arriving in time for
the meeting at ten o’clock.  The Meeting
House was beautifully decorated with
mottoes, banners and flowers, and the
people were assembled and waiting.  The
exercises were very pleasing, consisting of
music vocal and instrumental, and ad-
dresses were made by the Presidency,
Brother Dunbar brought out his bagpipes
and Mrs. Hull sung “My Western Home,”
very expressivly. “The Sleigh Ride” by
the Willard City Choir, was heartily ap-
plauded. There are some very fine voices
among that choir.  The dinner given in the
City Hall was an immense success; here
again the tables were loaded with every
variety of fruit, vegetables etc. and a dis-
play of dainty cooking and handsomely
furnished,and hall and tables decorated for
the occasion.
	A photographer was on hand with his
apparatus and the company as a whole
seated at the table was photographed.
	After dinner the party met the children in
the meeting house, and the Presidency
addressed them in their usual kind and
fatherly manner.  At Willard the party
took the train for Salt Lake City.
	The whole affair was peculiarly interest-
ing and entertaining.  Nothing happened
to mar the pleasure of the party,the greatest
harmony prevailed in all the diversified
gatherings, and it will long be remembered
as an important and pleasurable event.


