sparks that were smoldering were fanned to
a blaze during the winter following the
Doctor’s death. ‘‘Why should our minister
be so much with the widow;” was a
question frequently repeated with various
answers by his friends, his followers. Some
would say, ‘‘he wants to marry her, he
ought to have a wife like that, she could
help him so much.” Others again declared
he was not a consistent minister of the
Puritan faith and would doubtless soon
show his sympathy with the Church of
England” which these Puritanical peo-
ple hated.
	Meantime Mr. Barrington began to feel
that his congregation was falling off, and
that there was not the same zeal and re-
ligious fervor manifested as at first, in fact
that he was losing ground, and by and
bye, his former devoted friends began to
remonstrate with him about the course he
was taking, and when he protested his in-
nocence and resented any interferance,
actually accused him of the slanders circula-
ted about him, and of which up to this
time he had been in total ignorance.
	It was as if a thunderbolt had exploded
over his head; he was quite alone, hitherto
he had felt no need of home, or any one to
lean upon; his zeal for the cause to which
he had determined to devote his life, his
sublime faith in God, and the truths of the
Scriptures as interpreted to his understand-
ing, had been sufficient for his daily need.
He was a Biblical student, and a devont,
and prayerful man. That he had faults
and weaknesses he knew, yet his conscience
had not accused him of wrong motives in
visiting so frequently at the houses of great
people. Now he was accused of pride, of
neglect of ministerial duties to his own
flock, and of all sorts of sinister motives.
He was a man of the most sensitive nature,
and having been so much looked up to,
naturally enough he was at a loss to know
what was best to do. And when a few
days went by and he made no concessions
from the pulpit, he was informed by the
good Deacon, that unless he could defend
himself against these accusations (that had
increased rapidly in a few days) he would
be dismissed from the position he held, or
asked to explain his conduct to those
ministers with whom he exchanged pulpits;
for said the Deacon, “Your course is not
approved by those men, more than by us
who have been watching you ever since
Lord Walton accused you of being in love
with his wife, and bewitching her fancy;
and indeed we are not so sure that you are
not in league with the devil, with all your
pride, or with the abhored Church, which
we have denounced as full of abominations
enslaving men’s consciences.” The Deacon
apparently thinking the Church he detested
and the devil were one and the same.
	Mr. Barrington listened like one in a
trance, he was stunned, and could scarcely
believe this man whom he had esteemed a
wise counselor and true brother could hurl
forth such burning words and with such
cruel scorn in his tones and manner. With

[Column 3]
the native dignity and quite peacefulness
he had ever sought to exercise in every try-
ing hour he replied. “Deacon Meredith I
am indeed greatly pained that you should
believe such shocking things of one to
whom you pledged fidelity and support
when we left our native land together, but
if you are so firm in your convictions of my
lack of loyalty to the faith I hold dearer
than my own life, and if my denial will not
convince you of my sincerity and the truth
of what I say, then you, and those for
whom I have labored with the purest of
motives for their ultimate good and the
salvation of souls, must deal with me as
shall be decided according to the standard
from which you and they judge. The
Deacon was somewhat softened by the
minister’s answer, and held out his hand
saying “I fear I have been harsh, but the
people must be satisfied, and you alone can
do it, explain to them your conduct, which
looks so inconsistent with your profession;
why are you always at the widow’s, has
she greater need than all your own devoted
followers? If she was indeed a Chrstian
she would not approve of your neglect of
duty.”
	By this time the young minister was in
tears, he had felt the great need Mrs. Bland
had of some one to advise and counsel her,
had he been selfish, he asked himself, if so
he would make what reparation was
possible, he inwardly thought. He turned
to the good old Deacon for whom he had
always had a true friendship and brotherly
feeling of confidence, and said, “Deacon
Meredith you know me better than any
one else on this side the water, will you,
can you possibly, stand up before the
congregation of the ministers, or
the people, or both, in a public
assembly and say you believe me guilty of
these things, or of heresy of any nature
whatever, if you can then my case is al-
ready decided without further questioning?
	The Deacon was taken by surprise at
this speech of Barrington’s and his better
nature prevailed. He was silent for a
moment while he held the hand of his
young friend clasped firmly in his grasp—
“Speech is silver” he said, but “silence is
golden.” I will not be thine accuser, but
will defend you for I believe in your in-
nocence of any intended wrong.”
	“Then come with me to Mrs. Bland,”
said the young man and let us speak to her
of what must most likely reach her through
others sooner or later, possibly the servants
of her household.”
	“This evening I will accompany you
with my wife, for Mrs. Bland might feel
much embarrassed were no women present
at such an interview.” Thanking the Dea-
con for the suggestion that his wife should
be one of the party, and feeling the utmost
need of retirement to regain self-possession
and to seek the Lord in prayer—he walked
rapidly towards his lodgings, some dis-
tance away, by a by-path, and as he went
forward many conflicting thoughts flitted
through his mind. “Was he sure of him-
self? What was this indefinable longing
that had drawn him towards Mrs. Bland


