[Vol6 | June 1919 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Reconstruction]

The result of any cataclysm such as the world has just passed
through, necessarily leaves in its wake a vast trail of difficult
problems and unsettled conditions. It is true that our own country
has not been devastated as France and Belgium have been,
nor have we approached the verge of bankruptcy, as perhaps
England is doing. Yet the calling of 5,000,000 men from regular
avenues of domestic and civil life, thrusting them into the
preparation and conflict of war involves no light process of readjustment
in o rder that these men shall be returned to social life
without injury to themselves and their interests, and without loss
to the people of the country. Moreover, the changing of manufacturing
plants from the peaceable pursuits of ordinary life into
institutions for the manufacture of strictly war materials, and
vice versa, constitutes another problem in readjustment which
statesmen must face. Added to this is the unbelievable increase
of the credit system, which means that everybody is buying on
credit — for that is what paper money is — which has caused prices
to soar beyond the wildest dream,s, while everybody clamors for
lower prices on what is bought, yet all the workers want higher
wages and salaries than has ever been earned in the history of
the world.
This reconstruction need is the foundation of our Fifth Liberty
or Victory Loan, and there may be another in the future ;
while the vexing and difficult process of administering needed relief to families robbed of their wage-earners, through war's necessities,
and finding profitable jobs for returned soldiers, hangs
like a threatening cloud over the heads of civic relief workers
and public officials. Then there is the sex problem. Women have
crowded by the hundreds of thousands into the ranks of the
wage-earners, and they are very loth to go back into their homes
and become a seeming burden on the shoulders of men. They
have tasted the sweets of financial and social independence and
in most instances refuse to return to old conditions.
The biggest problem of all, that which contains the germ of
world-suicide, is the dissatisfaction of the working classes everywhere
with existing conditions. Labor is not satisfied with more
wages and shorter hours. Men feel that the crux of the labor
problem lies in the ownership of the producing industry. They
find themeslves without power or influence in the matter of governing
industries which they themselves create and continue. The
human spirit, when released from the pressure of fear, rebels
against any form of authority which is not delegated from itself;
yet the masses of the people are the masses because they lack the
initiative and creative governing .power to organize and control
human and mechanical forces. The whole world, therefore, is
whirling around in this vortex of confusion and dismay.
It may well be that all the prophecies made concerning this
people shall be fulfilled in a shorter period of time than we now
realize. We have all the foundation of truth with the basic principles
which underlie the government of the world. The reconstruction
question with you and me, however, is an individual
question. Always keep that in mind, my sisters. The people
in this Church and kingdom are the Church and kingdom, as the
citizens of this Government are the Government. No stream
rises higher than its source, and the strength of the cham is its
weakest link. Look well to your individual link, that it shall be
strong, not corroded with evil passions, rusted with envy, nor
ground upon by the friction of sordid ambition and the lust for
the vain things of this world. This is the message of reconstruction
for this people : learn to construct and adjust all your own
life-forces so that you shall be ready, not to drive and force men
into the true Church and kingdom of God. but to lead them by
loving them, to win them by serving them. The gospel is the plan
under heaven by which men can be saved.

Germs  and  Disease. 
Dr.  Martin  P.  Henderson,  Professor  of  Biology, 
B.  Y.  University,  Provo. 
(This  takes  place  of  Guide  Work  for  July.) 
The  existence  of  a  world  of  microscopic  life  with  its  won- 
derful manifestations,  was  but  vaguely  suggested  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Nineteenth  century.  Fermentations  and  decay  were 
not  understood.  Disease  was  a  mystery.  Epidemics  came  and 
went  without  any  apparent  cause.  Decaying  organic  matter  had 
been  observed  to  swarm  with  bacteria,  but  these  were  supposed 
to  arise  spontaneously  as  a  product  of  the  dead  cells,  and  to  take 
no  part  in  causing  the  decay.  Similar  structures  had  been  seen 
in  the  tartar  from  the  teeth,  but  it  was  not  supposed  that  these 
tmy  organisms  normally  grow  and  reproduce  in  the  human  mouth. 
About  the  middle  of  the  century,  however,  the  question  of  the 
origin  of  these  lowly  forms  engaged  the  attention  and  genius  of 
the  leaders  in  the  fields  of  chemistry  and  medicine,  and  out  of 
their  controversies  and  experiments  came  a  recognition  of  three 
fundamental  facts:  first,  that  these  simple  organisms  do  not 
arise  de  novo,  from  the  air  or  from  any  other  substance  either 
organic  or  inorganic,  but  like  all  other  living  things  must  have 
their  origin  in  antecedent  parental  forms ;  second,  that  fermenta- 
tion, putrefaction  and  decay  are  results  of  the  life  activities  of 
these  forms ;  and  third,  that  they  are  causative  agents  in  diseases 
of  plants  and  animals. 
Despite  this  information,  which  has  been  current  for  almost 
sixty  years,  and  in  the  face  of  the  certainty  that  a  majority  of 
our  common  contagious  diseases  are  caused  by  germs,  and  that 
others  on  very  good  evidence  are  believed  to  be  thus  caused,  the 
idea  .seems  to  prevail  in  the  popular  mind  that  an  epidemic  of 
disease,  such  as  that  of  the  past  season,  may  arise  spontaneously 
out  of  the  air  or  have  its  origin  in  some  other  intangible  manner. 
The  disease  germ  is  thought  of  as  a  mysterious  something  which 
as  mysteriously  transports  itself  from  one  person  to  another 
without  the  intervention  of  any  material  mediator. 
A  germ  is  either  a  minute  plant  or  animal.  It  differs  from 
the  higher  forms  of  life  primarily  in  its  size  and  .simpler  organ- 
ization. Usually  it  is  a  single  cell,  so  small  that  hundreds  or 
even  thousands  of  them  would  have  to  be  grouped  together  to 
form  a  mass  of  sufficient  size  to  be  visible.  Germs  are  subject 
to  the  same  laws  of  the  universe  and  dependent  upon  the  .same 
principles  of  life  as  are  higher  organisms.     Their  need  for  food

364  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
is  no  less  imperativ,e  and  their  necessity  for  right  conditions  of 
temperature  and  moisture  is  just  as  real.  They  take  food,  grow 
and  reproduce  their  kind.  What  constitutes  them  disease  germs 
is  the  power  which  they  have  acquired  to  operate  upon  and  within 
the  human  body  and  to  draw  from  it  the  nutrients  requisite  for 
a  complete  cycle  of  life.  They  may  be  simple  saprophytes  such 
as  the  colon  bacillus,  which  is  always  present  but  does  not  cause 
.specific  disease,  active  parasites  which  are  able  to  wrest  their 
nourishment  from  the  living  cells,  or  less  virulent  forms  such 
as  the  pneumonia  germs  which  attack  the  host  only  when  he  is 
weakened  from  some  other  cause.  Germs  may  attack  and  destroy 
living  tissues,  as  in  the  case  of  diphtheria  bacteria  in  the  lining 
of  the  throat,  or  the  typhoid  bacillus  in  the  walls  of  the  intestinal 
tract;  they  may  remain  localized  as  to  place  of  development  but 
in  their  operations  produce  poisons  which  are  distributed  by  the 
blood  to- all  parts  of  the  body,  as  in  diphtheria  and  lockjaw;  or 
they  may  get  into  the  blood  stream  and  be  carried  to  various  parts 
of  the  body,  as  in  .syphilis  and  typhoid  fever. 
Contagious  germs  develop  normally  only  in  connection  with 
the  body  or  its  immediate  wastes.  When  a  person  "catches"  an 
infectious  disease  it  means  simply  that  the  germ  causing  it  has 
been  transferred  from  an  infected  individual  to  a  vulnerable 
portion  of  his  own  body,  and  finding  there  requisite  environ- 
metal  conditions,  has  established  itself  and  is  continuing  its 
natural  processes  of  growth  and  reproduction.  The  germ  is  not 
at  fault  any  more  than  the  weed  is  at  fault  in  growing  in  the 
choicest  spot  of  the  garden.  It  is  merely  satisfying  the  greatest 
demand  of  its  existence — the  perpetuation  of  its  kind. 
The  transfer  of  germs  from  one  individual  to  another  takes 
place  in  a  variety  of  ways  all  of  which  might  be  avoided,  and 
which  would  no  doubt  be  avoided,  were  the  true  .significance  of 
germs  realized.  But  their  small  size  makes  them  very  difficult 
to  .study  and  entirely  inaccessible,  so  far  as  the  unaided  senses 
of  man  are  concerned.  If  it  were  possible  to  see  them  as  they 
are  in  their  normal  places  of  growth,  many  of  the  practices  of 
the  present  would  be  substituted  by  more  sanitary  ones,  and 
many  thoughtless  acts  would  be  discontinued.  Suppose  for  ex- 
ample it  were  possible  to  see  and  recognize  the  myriads  of  living 
forms  that  swarm  on  the  lips  and  in  the  mouth  of  a  person  in- 
fected with  influenza,  diphtheria,  "colds"  or  tuberculosis,  or  sup- 
pose the  individual  could  thus  see  himself.  What  wcuLi  bt  the 
possibilities  of  quarantine?  What  would  become  of  tlu^  habit  o^ 
promiscuous  kissing?  Suppose  such  an  infected  individual  could 
.see  these  same  forms  swimming  in  the  droplets  of  saliva  as  they 
issue  in  clouds  from  his  mouth  and  bespatter  his  friends  whenever 
he  sneezes  or  coughs.  Would  he  be  guilty  of  p-^t forming  these 
acts   except   behind   his   handkerchief   or   some   other   adequate screen ? Imagine the possibilities, could a tuberculous individual
see that the sputum from his mouth is filled with a writhing mass
of living forms, the germs of this terrible disease. Would he be
willing to take the risk of expectorating indiscriminately about
him, either in private or public places, or would such a thing be
at all permitted? Assume the results, were it possible for us all
to really ,see the various forms of life which adhere to our hands,
and recognize among them those that produce typhoid fever,
diphtheria, tuberculosis or syphilis. Would the deplorable "hand
to mouth" habit be continued? Would careless handling of articles
touched by others particularly ihose infected witli contagious
diseases, continue ? Suppose the possibility of seeing the millions
of typhoid germs with their numcious whip-like swimming appendages,
as they writhe and swarm in the feces of a typhoid patient,
of watching these same germs as they are washed by the
rains into the well or other water supply, and finally as they would
appear in the glass of clear cold water on the table. Or imagine
watching them taken up by the thousands on the body and feet
of a fly and carried direct to the nearest kitchen where they are
deposited on baby's "comfort," on his hands, on his lips, on the
dishes, on various articles of food and finally washed ofif the insect
by a bath in the milk. Would human excrement be left exposed?
Would open privies be maintained? Would decaying
or putrefying filth of any sort be permitted to encumber the
premises ?
These are the things that are happening around us every
day, but due to the natural limitations of vision, the majority of
us do not see them except through the eyes of others. Shall we
for that reason reject them? The day of preventive medicine
is rapidly approaching. Will we hinder its approach by dogmatic
persistence in theories and traditions of the past, or shall we
rather hasten its coming by an intelligent acceptance and application
of the truth as it is now known?
