[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Finland Creer]
Thus began the second Russo-Finnish War. The Finns appealed to the League of Nations and, on December 14.
That body declared Russia the aggressor, and expelled her from the organization. In the United States widespread sympathy was expressed for Finland's cause.
Credit for nonmilitary supplies was extended through the U. S.
Export and Import Bank, and the American people gave FINLAND generously for Finnish relief. Great Britain and France supplied some military equipment and a number of Norwegians, Swedes, and Danes volunteered for service in the Finnish army. However, none of the Scandinavian governments was willing to participate in the war, for fear of Nazi retaliation. For this reason, Norway and Sweden refused a formal request: from Great Britain and France (March 2, 1940) for the right to use their territories for the transportation of war, supplies to Finland. To have granted such a request would have courted almost certain invasion by Germany, who obviously could not tolerate the establishment of Allied bases on her northern flank. Thus, by a peculiar combination of circumstances, "the Allies were saved from going to war with Russia, but the embittered Finns were saved to become allies of the Nazis." (Haynes and Hoffman The Origins and Background of the Second World War, p. 561).
Although fighting brilliantly, the Finns, deprived of Allied support, were forced to come to terms. By the Treaty of Moscow (March 12, 1940), Finland was compelled to cede to Russia the whole of the Karelian Isthmus; the important port of Viipuri (modern Viborg); several islands in the Gulf of Finland; the territory north and west of Lake Ladoga; a tract of land near Salla; and a small area about Petsamo. She also granted the Russians a thirty-year lease of the port of Hango. The Soviet Government at once organized the new Karelian acquisition as the "Karelian-Finnish Socialist Federative Soviet Republic." In the summer of 1941, Finland, still resentful toward the Soviet 641
Union because of its untoward attack, joined with Hitler in a secret military alliance. Then, when the Germans determined upon an invasion of Russia (June 22, 1941), the Finns resumed their "Russo-Finnish War" and supported actively the German invasion. However, the Finns declare that in this renewed war they were not the aggressors but that their active participation resulted only after the Russians had first attacked.
This point of view is represented in a very lucid article which appeared recently in a reputable British publication, the Nineteenth Century.
Part of the article is worth repeating here. It follows: "Finland did not take advantage of the occasion offered by the German attack on Russia in June 1941, to avenge the defeat she suffered at the hands of the Red Army in the previous year and to recover her lost territories.
Finland was not the aggressor?she was, for the second time, the victim of aggression. When Russia was herself invaded on June 22, 1941, she at once resumed her active hostility to Finland," and this despite the fact that the Soviet Government had expressed satisfaction with the treaty of March 12, 1940. "On that same day," continues the commentator, "the Russians bombed the Aaland Islands and attempted to bomb two Finnish warships. On the 23rd, Abo (modern Turku), was bombed by twenty-four Russian airplanes. The open city of Villmanstrand was bombed on the same day?so was the Malm airdrome near Helsinki. By the 26th, more than ten Finnish towns had been bombed. By the Russians and suffered heavy casualties. On that day, the President, Risto Ryti. 642 broadcasted a declaration that Finland would fight. 'They decided to fight in self-defense for a second time. But they limited their military operations to the recovery of the districts that had been wrested from them in the previous year.
They did not take part in the offensive against Leningrad?they deny that their guns have bombarded that Russian port." But, regardless of which country was the aggressor, the point is that Finland today, as an active ally of Germany against Russia, finds herself in a most precarious and unfortunate position. In spite of the justice of her cause, it is difficult to discern just how her cause can be  aided by the Allies at the forthcoming peace conference, for it should be clear that the Allies will be forced to co-operate with the Soviet Union and recognize its demands for territorial security, and this, of course, will involve the fate of Finland. In the opinion of the writer, under these untoward circumstances, the Finns will be fortunate to escape with a settlement based on the provisions of the Moscow Treaty of 1940.
This much is certain, the best immediate guarantee for continued independence of the Republic will be the establishment of friendly relations between the Finns and the Russians. ? Lula Greene Richards HE long and active earth life of one of the Church's interesting and gifted women was brought to a close Friday, September 8, 1944, when Louisa Lula Greene Richards passed away at her home in Salt Lake City at the age of ninety-five.
Since her girlhood, the literary compositions of Sister Richards have delighted and inspired the women of the Church and won for her an enduring place in their hearts. In her early twenties her writing ability so attracted Church leaders that she was called to be first editor of the Woman's Exponent, forerunner of The Relief Society Magazine, and the first publication owned and printed by Latter-day Saint women. Sister Richards creditably fulfilled the exacting requirements of this position, serving from June 1, 1872 to July 15, 1877, when family responsibilities made it necessary for her to relinquish her editorial work after having set standards and established patterns many of which were followed throughout the life of the publication. Sister Richards was dainty in appearance, refined in manner, and a devoted Latter-day Saint.
Throughout her life she was active in Church auxiliary work, For many years she was a member of the Primary General Board. She was also an active temple worker. Sister Richards found joy and comfort in her testimony of the divinity of Christ and the sure knowledge of the resurrection. The Relief Society General Board acknowledges with gratitude the contributions of Lula Greene Richards to the Relief Society.
