[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Superscription Robinson]
SUPERSCRIPTION 
Jessie  MiJ/er  Robinson 
As  long  ago,  a  monk  with  patient  strokes  The    priceless    vellum;    Lord,    I    ask    thee 
of  care  to  erase 
Rubbed  out  a  worldly  ode  to  co\er  v\ith  All  wrong  desire,  and  write  pure  Lo\e 
a  prayer  upon  my  face.                             _,

LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
cJheology^ 
Church  History 
Lesson  5— The  Kirtland  Period 
Di.  H.  Wayne  Driggs 
For  Tuesday,  February  6,  1945 
Objective:  To  study  the  beginning  of  the  "rising  up  and  the  coming  forth  of  my 
church  out  of  the  wilderness"  (Doc.  and  Gov.  5:14). 
npHE  spring  of  1830  found  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  organ- 
ized again  upon  the  earth.  The 
pattern  was  once  more  outHned 
whereby  men  could  enter  the  king- 
dom through  faith,  repentance,  and 
the  waters  of  baptism,  which  rebirth 
then  brought  confirmation  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  These  four 
simple  acts  provided  a  way  so  clear 
that  none  could  err  therein.  Yet  they 
were  profound  enough  to  touch  the 
lives  of  all  living  souls  even  to  the 
four  corners  of  the  earth.  God  had 
promised  believers  that  ''signs  would 
follow"  those  who  did  his  will  which 
now  could  be  explained  by  his 
authorized  servants  who  held  the 
Holy  Priesthood. 
The  promise  was  that  his  church 
should  "rise  up  and  come  forth  out 
of  the  wilderness."  This  was  an  in- 
spiring yet  awesome  thought..  To 
those  who  had  embraced  the  new 
faith  and  reflected  upon  its  won- 
ders, the  following  reason  became 
apparent.     The  Lord  had  said  the 
church  of  men  had  forms  of  godli- 
ness but  denied  the  power  thereof. 
Could  he  therefore  plant  a  personal 
testimony  in  the  hearts  of  those  who 
were  to  seek  him  through  the  lead- 
ers of  Christendom  who  sought  not 
his  will  but  their  own?  No,  the 
truth  must  come  through  humble 
men  whom  the  world  called  weak 
and  despised,  men  of  the  earth, 
nourished  as  it  were  in  the  wilder- 
ness, apart  from  the  more  frequented 
paths  of  social  life.  His  voice  again 
would  come  through  such  servants 
crying  repentance. 
If  it  was  hard,  as  we  have  seen,  for 
the  first  favored  members  of  the 
'little  flock"  to  believe,  what  then 
might  be  expected  of  others,  un- 
schooled in  the  ways  of  the  Lord, 
who  were  to  hear  the  gospel  mes- 
sage? Often  changes  in  life  are  pain- 
ful even  if  all  the  evidence  for  such 
changes  is  apparent.  In  temporal 
matters  the  need  for  new  patterns  of 
living  often  reveal  themselves,  but 
in  things  of  the  spirit,  only  those 
Page  659

660  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1944 
who  are    willing   through    faith    to  Many  baptisms  followed.  After  the 
learn,  may  see.     The  Church    was  conference  Joseph  returned  again  to 
organized  but  its  paths  ahead  were  his  home  in  Pennsylvania,  and  soon 
to  lead  through  the  struggling  ways  after  this,  with  his  wife,  he  went 
of  little  known  regions.  once  more  to  the  home  of  Joseph 
On  Sunday,  April  ii,  1830,  the  Knight  in  Colesville  where  he  found 
first  public  meeting  of  the  organized  many  who  believed  ready  for  bap- 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  held.  tism.  Plans  were  laid  for  a  service. 
Oliver  Cowdery,  its  second  elder,  de-  and  a  dam  was  constructed.  A  mob 
livered  its  first  public  discourse.  Six  of  the  neighborhood  set  to  work 
new  members  were  baptized  that  tearing  this  dam  away.  The  service 
day,  and  seven  the  following  Sun-  which  was  to  have  been  held  on  a 
day  in  Lake  Seneca.  Later  in  the  Sunday  was  of  necessity  postponed 
month,  Joseph  Smith  held  meetings  until  Monday, 
in  the  home  of  Joseph  Knight  at  Peace  was  not  to  be  had  from 
Colesville,  Broome  County,  New  then  on  at  the  Knight  home.  Dur- 
York.  It  was  during  these  meetings  ing  another  visit  from  the  Prophet  a 
that  Newel  Knight,  a  son  of  Joseph  mob  surrounded  the  house.  Joseph 
Knight,  became  possessed  of  a  devil  faced  the  angry  men  in  vain,  endeav- 
which  the  Prophet  cast  out.  Newel  oring  to  pacify  them.  Events  moved 
had  promised  to  pray  in  the  meet-  on,  culminating  in  the  arrest  of  the 
ing  before  his  friends,  but  became  Prophet  on  two  different  occasions 
timid  when  the  time  arrived.  Still  while  serving  the  Colesville  Branch 
exhibiting  faith  in  the  power  of  God,  At  the  end  of  both  trials  he  was  set 
he  sought  his  Maker  in  the  woods  free,  nothing  having  been  proved 
nearby,  at  which  time  he  was  pos-  against  him. 
sessed  by  the  evil  spirit.    So  miracu-  During  these   troublesome   times 
lous  was  his  healing,  that   he   and  the  Lord  remained  close  to  Joseph 
many   of  those   present,   who   wit-  revealing  to  him  his  mind  and  will, 
nessed  the  event,  later  became  mem-  At  the  Whitmer  home,  with  the  as- 
bers  of  the  Church.  This  first  miracle  sistance  of  his  wife  and  David  Whit- 
of  the  Church,  it  should  be  noted,  mer,  the  early  revelations  were  ar- 
foUowed  as  a  sign  for  those  who  had  ranged  and  copied.    In  June  of  this 
believed  and  attended  the  meetings,  year  came  what  is  known  as  the  "Vi- 
It  did  not  come  to  satisfy  the  skepti-  sions  of   Moses"    (Pearl    of    Great 
cism  of  scoffers.  Price,  p.  1 ) .    August   brought    an- 
Things  of  wonder  spread  rapidly,  other  visit  from  a  heavenly  messen- 
"A  church  of  miracles  and  a    new  ger  with  instructions  concerning  the 
Bible,"    went  the    word    over    the  administration  of  the  Lord's  Supper 
countryside.      Both    at    Colesville,  (Doc.  and  Gov.,  Sec.  27:1-4).     It 
where  he  had  been,  and  at  Fayette  was  in  this  month  of  the  year,  too. 
to  which  place  he  returned,  the  talk  that  the  break  occurred  between  Jo- 
of  strange  things  came  back  to  the  seph  and  his  father-in-law,  Mr.  Isaac 
Prophet.    On  the  first  day  of  June  Hale,  and  the  Prophet  and  his  wife 
1830,   the   first   conference   of   the  Emma  went  to  live  at  the  Whitmers. 
Church  was  held  in  Fayette.    The  Things  in   Fayette  were  not    all 
outpouring  of  the  Spirit  was  rich,  favorable   for  Joseph.     Dissensions