[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 27 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes from the Field: Relief Society War and Welfare Services in Missions (Continued)]
Regulations  governing  the  submittal  of  material  for  "Notes  From  The  Field," 
appear  in  the  Magazine  for  February  1944,  page  104. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  WAR  AND  WELFARE  SERVICES 
IN  MISSIONS 
(Continued  from  Magazine  for  Octohei) 
Canadian  Mission 
TESSIE  R.  URSENBACH,  presi- 
^  dent  of  the  Canadian  Mission  Re- 
lief Society,  writes  as  follows  con- 
cerning the  ''Bundles  for  Britain" 
project  which  is  carried  on  by  the 
Relief  Society  women  of  this  mis- 
sion: 
''During  the  Battle  of  Britain, 
when  hearts  and  homes  of  members 
of  this  mission  were  severely  torn, 
the  idea  of  sending  bundles  to  Brit- 
ain was  born.  Sister  Johan  Mark,  a 
faithful  member  from  Scotland 
whose  own  mother  died  as  a  result 
of  the  blitz,  was  the  originator  of  the 
idea,  with  the  approval  and  full  sup- 
port of  the  mission  presidents,  Pres- 
ident David  A.  Smith  and  Sister 
Emily  Smith  and  of  their  successors, 
the  late  President  Joseph  Quinney 
and  Sister  Ida  Quinney. 
"Twenty  pounds  per  month  was 
the  amount  allowed  by  shipping 
authorities,  so  early  in  this  year, 
when  President  Octave  W.  Ursen- 
bach  was  appointed  as  mission  presi- 
dent and  Sister  Jessie  R.  Ursenbach 
was  set  apart  to  preside  over  the  Re- 
lief Societies,  letters  were  sent  out 
to  all  Relief  Societies,  requesting  that 
this  be  made  a  mission  project. 
'Showers  for  Britain'  in  connection 
Page  650 
with  their  annual  day  commemora- 
tions were  suggested,  so  that  there 
would  be  plenty  of  clothing  always 
ready,  and  the  bundles  could  be  sent 
out  as  regularly  and  as  often  as  per- 
mitted. 
"The  letters  met  with  enthusiastic 
co-operation,  and,  very  soon,  bun- 
dles large  and  small  began  arriving 
at  the  mission  home.  Many  organ- 
izations sent  several  beautiful  bun- 
dles. They  were  filled  with  warm, 
clean  necessities  for  the  newborn, 
and  for  children  mostly  from  six  to 
ten  years  of  age,  with  some  for  adults 
as  well.  The  care  with  which  they 
were  prepared  bore  eloquent  testi- 
mony of  the  loving  mother-hearts 
behind  the  project.  Everything  was 
clean  and  ready  for  shipment. 
"Each  bundle  was  accompanied 
by  a  postal  note  of  three  dollars,  the 
sum  necessary  to  insure  its  delivery 
to  Britain.  In  some  cases  the  sec- 
ond bundle  with  the  second  postal 
note  arrived  from  the  same  organ- 
ization, and  always  with  some  ex- 
pression; such  as,  'When  you  need 
more,  let  us  know,'  'We  are  already 
preparing  winter  things,'  or  'We 
will  soon  send  another  bundle  of 
things  to  you.' 
"The  joy  of  Relief  Society  sisters

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
651 
PACKING  A  BUNDLE  FOR  BRITAIN 
Left  lib  right:  Missionary  Virginia  Parker,  formerly  mission  Relief  Society  supervisor,  list- 
ing articles  received  ;  Johan  Mark,  originator  of  the  idea  and  formerly  a  counselor  in  the  Toronto 
Branch  Relief  Society  presidency  ;  Margaret  Zuber,  fourth  from  left,  president,  Toronto  Branch 
Relief  Society ;  Gertrude  Wagner,  secretary,  Toronto  Branch  Relief  Society  ;  Missionary  Genevieve 
Bird  ;  at  extreme  right,  Jessie  R.  Ursenbach,  mission  Relief  Society  president,  shows  articles  to 
Mission  President  Octave  W.  Ursenbach. 
KITCHENER  BRANCH  RELIEF  SOCIETY,  CANADIAN  MISSION 
Seated  are  the  officers,  left  to  right :  Mrs.  E.  Steinmetz,  first  counselor ;  Mrs.  E.  Willis, 
president ;  Mrs.  A.  Willis,  second  counselor ;  Mrs.  J.  W.   Stott,  Jr.,  secretary-treasurer. 
Standing  fourth  from  the  left  is  Lillian  C.  Roberts,  formerly  a  member  of  the  Relief  Society