[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Forward Without Fear Robinson]
Forward, Without Fear Dorothy Clapp Robinson With their money gone, Ann Kristin and Hetga Mortensen are faced with the problem of supporting themselves, They have never worked except in their own homes. But the question of who took their money worries them more than the loss.
Could it have been Elder Lewis? He had gone to New Orleans four months before, to bring these immigrants up the Tiver and to make sure just this sort of thing did not happen to them.
Where did he get the money to bring the destitute ones up the river? He had only seven dollars when he left home.
Could it have been Tom Bepiox? He had the opportunity, but would a man steal from the girl he was to marry? Was it Parry Lou, who didn't like Ann?
What about the gambler-trader who left the River Maid at Montrose? Or was it one of the immigrants? ANN, under suggestion from Tom, has a warrant issued for the arrest of ELDER Lewis, but he tells where he received the money. It is a fantastic story and hard to believe.
While the officers are hesitating about taking Lewis, Ted Lewis comes running with the news that the Prophet Joseph has been killed.
CHAPTER IV MATILDA LEWIS drew the sheet up under Johanna's chin. "It is warm, but it will protect you from the flies," "Thank you." Mrs.
Lewis busied herself with the baby. "She looks like you, Johanna.
First thing you know you will be carrying her down to see me."
Johanna turned her eyes slowly toward the foot of the bed. Mrs.
Lewis had put a Square of mosquito netting over the bundle lying there. A beatific smile spread over her face for the moment, completely erasing the unhealthful pal lor of her skin, the unnatural bright ness of her eyes. To hide her own tears, Matilda Lewis turned quickly "T must get home now and See about Erva, but I will be back. It you need me, send Patty Lou. You will be quiet, won't you?" The sick girl's eyes answered, and Mrs.
Lewis went outside. The hastily erected lean-to was still the home of these immigrants. It kept out the sun, and most of the rain, but nothing else.
Sitting on the big stump in the clearing was Patty Lou. Her face was puckered in concentration as the pencil in her hand moved slowly over a square of paper. "I think she will be more comfortable now." Mrs.
Lewis lowered her voice so her words would not reach the sick girl. "If the baby wakes or if she gets worse, call me at once. I'll try to get a little rest. You don't seem to mind the heat." "Mind? Oh, you all mean the weather. I was brought up on this kind. You all don't know Alabama." She struck suddenly at a mosquito that had been buzzing about her face. "There. Got him right on pap's letter," "Please, Patty.
Listen to what I am saying." The girl's eyes opened wide. "Why, Sister Lewis, I am listening to you sure-enough." "Then watch Johanna carefully, She is very ill.
Keep the flies away if you can, but let her sleep if she will." Page 643 "Yes'm. I sure enough will, but I must finish this letter to my papa."
"Patty Lou!" Mrs. Lewis' voice was stern. "I mean what I say. Your papa's letter can wait. She may turn worse in an instant."
Her tone brought Patty Lou's agile mind back from its wanderings. She smiled assurance, which changed quickly to wonder.
"Sister Lewis. Why do you do all this?"
"This?"
The girl waved her hand vaguely. "I mean, two months ago you didn't know any of us. Since then you have watched over us, brought us food, helped the girls sell their things, and now for days you-all have been constantly with Johanna. Why do you?"
Mrs. Lewis' brows drew together, puzzled. "I have never asked myself such a question. The need is here. That is enough. How far would we get if we didn't help each other?"
The girl chewed the end of her pencil. "I can't see you are getting anything but grief. Your husband is in jail, and all the time Kris was having that terrible time with her sore hand you took care of her."
