[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]

NOTES TO THE FIELD Notice of Special Ward Relief Society Meeting to Be Held January 30, 1945 (Fifth Tuesday) "THE General Board of Relief Society recommends that all local Relief Societies hold a_ special meeting on the fifth 'Tuesday of January 1945, relating to the non-use of liquor and tobacco. Our Church leaders, as well as many civic, business, and welfare leaders in the United States and other countries are concerned over the alarming increase in the use of alcohol and tobacco. It is desired that this problem be considered by the Relief Society in a special meeting devoted entirely to this subject, where the standards of our Church with respect to the non-use of alcohol and tobacco may be re-emphasized, and the advantages and blessings of abstinence discussed.
Following is a suggestive program for this meeting, but local Relief Societies may, of course, plan their own programs if they prefer, provided they carry forward the purpose of the meeting. The Church's General No-Liquor- Tobacco Committee, headed by Elder Joseph F.
Merrill as chairman, with headquarters at 40
East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, directs the activities of similar no-liquor-tobacco committees in stakes and in wards on which priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations have representation. It is suggested that ward officers might call on the Relief Society representative on the ward or stake no-liquor tobacco committee for assistance with this program if more pamphlets or reference material are desired, and that the Relief Society representative on the ward no-liquor-tobacco committee be asked to give one of the talks. The references in the suggestive program include a pamphlet distributed through the General No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee. It is suggested that requests for copies of pamphlets be made first to your ward or stake no-liquor tobacco committee, and that if they cannot be obtained through this means that requests for copies be sent direct to the General No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee. Suggestive Program Title: Tobacco. The Relief Society Stands For the Non-Use of Liquor and Theme: Doc. And Cov., Sec. 89:4-8. I Song: "Choose the Right," Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 86. I] Prayer Page
632 NOTES TO THE FIELD. 633 III Song: "Guide Me to Thee," Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 110. IV Talk: The Sacredness of the Human Body. (See Dr. Frederick J. Pack, "The Sacredness of the Human Body," to appear in The Deseret News Church Edition, Saturday, January 6, 1945; Dr. John A. Widtsoe, Word of Wisdom, Chaps. 5 and 6, pp 42-84; John 2:19-21; I Cor. 6:19-20; Doc. And Cov. Sec. 93:35). V Talk: The Mother's Responsibility in the Non-Use of Liquor and Tobacco. 1.
Setting the example personally. 2.
Maintaining standards in the home. "3.
Seeking to raise community standards. (See President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Our Homes," Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, p. 801; President David O. McKay, "The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," Relief Society Magazine, January 1940, p. 17; Virginia Jacobsen, "The Woman Smoker," Relief Society Magazine, June 1937, p. 375; Alonzo L. Baker, "Should Women Smoke?" Relief Society Magazine, October 1941, p. 665?Pamphlet available from General No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee. ) VI Song: "Homing," (Trio) Del Riego, or "Home Sweet Home." VII Talk: The Rewards of Obedience from the Observance of Non-Use of Alcohol and Tobacco. 1.
Obtaining the promises. 2.
Seeing one's children inherit the rewards. 3.
Being heirs to the promises of the righteous. (See President Heber J. Grant, "Gospel Standards, Chap. 4; Doc. And Cov. Sec. 89:18-21. VIII Closing song. IX Benediction.
Additional references for talks: Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, ""What's the Lesson?" Improvement Era, August 1944, p. 503; ""The Effects of Alcohol," Improvement Era, June 1944, P. 393; "Tobacco," Relief Society Magazine, February 1930, p. 70; "Personal Letters Protest Picturization of Smoking and Drinking," Relief Society Magazine, June-July 1943, p. 398; "Auxiliary Leaders Protest Picturization of Smoking and Drinking," Relief Society Magazine, January 1943, p. 44; Lucy Gates Bowen, ""Why a Singer Should Keep the Word of Wisdom," Relief Society Magazine, November 1944, p. 613.
Suggestions for December Work Meeting CHRISTMAS this year will perhaps have a deeper significance than ever before because of the tragic condition of the world today. Let the last sewing day of this eventful year be a preparation for the true Christmas spirit. On this day there may be sewing that must be taken care of, but would it not be interesting to have a few innovations?
Somebody has said, "The Christmas tree in our homes is a symbol 634 of Christ as the tree of life, who offers freely to all his gifts of light, and life and wisdom."
Would it not be interesting to include in the work meeting program suggestions on how to attractively and inexpensively decorate a Christmas tree. A tree glittering with ornaments, shining with tinsel and icicles can be made very attractive; but where these are difficult to obtain, ornaments made of bright-colored paper, strings of snowy-white popcorn, pine cones and other inexpensive trimmings might well substitute for the commercially made and more expensive tree decorations.
Some people are fond of the silver trees decorated with blue baubles and blue lights. For this, tree radiator paint and a spray gun will be needed.
Some people like to use the white frosting made with white hot-water kalsomine mixed according to the directions on the package and applied by slapping the branches with a brush. Then, there are the lovely Christmas greens, the mistletoe and holly, and the red and white candles. These, too, are symbols of Christmas and add to the spirit of the occasion.
Suggestions for the attractive use of these during the holiday season would, no doubt, be of interest to Relief Society members. In every ward there are excellent cooks.
Recipes for cookies, plum  pudding, fruit cake, cinnamon apples, and cranberry jelly might be exchanged. A demonstration showing how festive the Christmas table can be set and how to arrange a center piece is always appreciated.
This year, it may be difficult to purchase just the items we would like for Christmas giving, and those available will, no doubt, be expensive and of wartime quality. Why not have the women' bring their own sewing and exchange ideas?
There are many fine suggestions that might be made for making such articles as lovely handkerchiefs and dainty aprons.
There is a need for laundry bags, and guest towels.
Dolls are scarce and expensive this year. Rag dolls and stuffed animals can be made very attractive and at little expense.
Doll clothes might also be of interest to mothers with little girls.
Luncheon sets made of monk's cloth outlined with colored thread or those made of butcher's linen appliqued with colorful materials are very pretty as well as useful. In the words of Annie Wells Cannon: "Now may the Christmas candle burn in every window, and the light of love in every heart." For additional suggestions see: "For Christmas This Year' Nellie O. Parker, Relief Society Magazine, November 1943, p. 675; "How to Glorify Christmas Gifts,'' Lucile W. Wolf, Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, p. 816.
Suggestions for Choristers and Organists Song Practice The knowledge of songs can be enlarged considerably in Relief Society organizations if the two song practice periods each month are carefully planned. New songs should be presented from time to time, and appropriate songs should be selected not only from the Relief Society Song Book but from other Church NOTES TO THE FIELD songbooks. It is advisable that the chorister and organist rehearse together so that they may learn the songs thoroughly before offering them to the group. The new song should be rehearsed just long enough to give the women a general idea of it; it may be taken up in more detail in the next song practice.
Some of the period should be used to improve the singing of familiar hymns so that the members may sing with greater fervor and enjoyment.
While it is conceded that the standing position is best for singing, yet after hurrying through a busy morning in order to attend Relief Society meeting, many women find it very tiring to stand for any length of time. 'Therefore, it would be considerate on the part of the chorister to have the audience remain seated for most, if not all, of the practice period.
Nothing should ever detract from the spiritual uplift and enjoyment that can come to us from singing together.
Suggestions for Special Occasions Many groups of Singing Mothers have already planned special activities for the coming season.
They are working on new program numbers 635 to be given on various occasions 'n their wards or stakes.
Some have chosen the Thanksgiving holiday as the time for a special musicale, featuring thankfulness for the earth's bounties as the central theme.
Around this theme they will group their songs and readings. The stage for a Thanksgiving musicale may be decorated in beautiful autumn colors, creating a festive atmosphere.
Other choruses are preparing special musical programs for the Christmas holidays, improvising a program around a lovely Christmas story, using Christmas chorals along with other appropriate numbers, displaying a "living picture" of one or two of the famous paintings of the Madonna and Child, the Manger, the Wise Men, the Christ Child, et cetera. The Christmas cantata is always a favorite with both singing groups and audiences, it can generally be prepared in a few weeks' time. The work of the chorus can always be lightened by having a special trio or double trio do one or more of the chorus numbers.
Requests have come for the names of Christmas cantatas for women's voices. A list is herewith submitted: Christmas Cantatas?Three-part for Ladies' Voices "The Heavenly Child," by Hamblen.
Published by Chappell ?.60 "The Music of Bethlehem," by Holton, Published by Lorenze -.....50 "The Wondrous Story," by Kountz (no solos) Medium Difficult "Yuletide Memories," (Two-part for ladies' voices) are included) "Bethlehem," by Bliss (with solos and scripture reading).
Published by Willis.....75 "In Bethlehem," by Kountz.
Published by Witmark....-------60 "The Babe of Bethlehem," by Hamblen.
Published by Chappell Co...60
More Difficult (Three-part for ladies' voices ) "The Story of Christmas," by Matthews. Published by G. Schirmer...75
Easy Price "The Christmas Messiah," (taken from Handel's Messiah ). Published by Lorenze.60 "The Christ Child," by Hawley. Published by John Church Co........................75 "Christmas Tide"  (Christmas Carols) by Bowdon. Published by Flammer 25
Sime Limitations in Theology and in Visiting Teachers | Training Report Meeting to Be Observed COMPLAINTS have reached the General Board that the meetings on the first Tuesday of the month are often too long, and inquiry has revealed that because of the extensive familiarity with the subject matter and the interest of our members in theology that the class period for this lesson often extends beyond the recommended forty-five minutes. Class leaders are urged to confine the lesson presentation and discussion to forty-five minutes in order to allow time for testimony bearing. We repeat the standing recommendation of the General Board that in large wards the time of the testimony meeting might be extended fifteen minutes to allow for more women to bear testimony. However, this meeting occurs monthly, and Relief Society women also have opportunity to bear testimony in the regular monthly ward fast meeting. It is, therefore, recommended that the theology and testimony meeting be closed at the agreed time. The preceding visiting teachers' training-report meeting must also be well managed so as not to run over time. It is imperative that ward visiting teachers' message leaders confine their presentation of the discussion to the recommended ten to fifteen minutes, and that the regular reports of visiting teachers be confined to the required information. Time limitations for each feature of this meeting are listed in detail in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1944, page 513. To those women who feel that the allotted time is too short in which to give their message adequately, may we recall that the shortest speeches are often the most effective. Extensive preparation is necessary to be able to give a worthwhile message in a short time. Some of the choicest gems in religious teaching, in literature, and in philosophy are very brief, yet their message is readily grasped.. The Beatitudes can be read in one minute and contain only 143 words, yet their message, remarkable in content, is a blessing that has spanned centuries. I Corinthians, chapter 13, takes less than two minutes to read and contains only 268 words. It is considered by some as coming nearer to the heart of the gospel than anything in the Bible outside the words of Jesus. The Gettysburg Address can be read in two minutes, yet is one of the world's great speeches. The visiting teachers' message as presented in The Relief Society Magazine is short. The ten to fifteen minutes allotted in the training meeting should be ample for effective discussion and consideration of its application to the teaching situation. 636 (Arranged for women's voices)  : NOTES TO THE FIELD 637 ORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, printed in the November 1943 issue of The Relief Society Magazine Formerly Part of Date Stake or Mission Stakes _ Appointed President Ben Lomond Stake Ogden Stake Ora Mac Farlane = November 22, 1943
Grantsville Stake Tooele Stake Carrie Wrathall January 16, 1944
Park Stake Liberty and, Bonneville Stakes Blanche Stoddard = October 24, 1943 REORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, printed in the November 1943 issue of The Relief Society Magazine Stake or Mission Released Appointed President Date Stakes Blackfoot Mary S. Bills Alice S. DeMordaunt ? June 11, 1944
Box Elder Josie J. Jeppson Beatrice B. Hansen February 7, 1944
Cache Mary M. West Alice Christiansen September 11, 1944
Emery Clara A. Wickman = Arlinda N. Ware August 20, 1944
Emigration Jennie H. Brockbank Lillie Adams February 13, 1944
Garfield Hazel W. Cannon Daphne B. Smith August 13,1944. (Deceased ) Gridley Ruthe B. Samson Alice I. Ferrin September 24, 1944
Hyrum Minnie A. Miller Harriet C. Leishman August 27, 1944
Idaho Falls Cora M. Christensen Idetta Merrill April 1, 1944
Kolob Hannah M. Clyde Zelma Beardall January 16, 1944
Liberty Emma G. Phillips Diana R. Lambert October 24, 1943
Millard Artemesia George Fern Robison August 13, 1944
Nampa Clara C. Mason Ethel B. Andrews March 19, 1944
Nebo Vera H. Cloward Gwen W. Dixon September 14, 1944
Nevada Hope Broadbent Lucille Horton September 24, 1944
Panguitch Sarah O. Henrie Laretta Yardley February 6, 1944
Pasadena Irene Ethel Boice Madge Fowler July 16, 1944
Pocatello Amy J. Hawkes Mary H. Whitaker November 28, 1943
Raft River Roxie F. Horne Lona Hepworth February 20, 1944 St. George Marian M. Snow Leila K. Atkin October 10, 1943 St. Joseph Wilda Merrill Hattie Shurtz March 12, 1944
San Juan Charity L. Rowley Ruth H. Redd October 24, 1943
Santaquin-Tintic Vera P. Patten Jennie Bylund March 19, 1944
South: Salt Lake South Sevier Winnie O. Lavin Jennie Brown Lau Rene K. Lindquist September 21, 1944
Sylva Musig April 23, 1944
Tooele Carrie Wrathall Emma R. Hanks January 16, 1944
Uvada Dorothy P. Ronnow June C. Huntington May 14, 1944
Wells Amy B. Towler Lorena W. Anderson July 1, 1944
Young Bergetta A. Covington Harriet D. Foutz May 21, 1944
Missions Argentine Kate M. Barker Cecile S. Young July 21, 1944
Eastern States Mary V. Iverson Alberta O. Doxey May 17, 1944
Northwestern Edna H. Bennion Lenore K. Bringhurst August 18, 1944
Tahitian Venus R. Rossiter Emma Ruth Mitchell 
 ?NOVEMBER 1944
Revised Price List of Temple and Burial Clothing A new price list of the temple and burial clothing available from the General Board of Relief Society has been mailed to all stake presidents and bishops, and to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents, and is published here so that Relief Society members
CLOTHING FOR WOMEN
Robes: (Gathered usually preferred for temple work; pleated usually preferred for burial. ) Cotton (gathered)....$ 1.80 2.25 2.95
Cotton (pleated)...... 3-25 4.90 8.05
Flaxon (pleated)........ 465 5.25
Linen (pleated) -....... 17.65
Veils: Cotton  95
Organdy.......... 2.15
Rayon Airline............ 3.15
Rayon Marquisette.... 3.95
Moccasins: Cotton....80
Linen Fronting.......... Linen 1.25
Rayon 1.10
Aprons Sateen  2.40
Rayon.............. 2.65 3.50 5.30 6.10 (Variance in price due to amount of embroidery may be informed of this nonprofit service supplied by the Relief Society. All purchasers of burial clothing are cautioned not to pay more for temple burial clothing than the prices here quoted, wherever purchased.
CLOTHING FOR MEN
Robes: (Gathered usually preferred for temple work; pleated usually preferred for burial.) Cotton (gathered)....$ 1.85 2.35 3.15
Cotton (pleated).... 3.25 4.90 8.05
Flaxon (pleated)........ 4.65 5.25
Linen (pleated)........ 12.70 17.65
Caps: Cotton 22.0 ee 35
Linen Fronting...........60
Linen.80 1.00
Moccasins: 80
Linen Fronting.......... Go Linen 20
Aprons Sateen 2.40
Rayon..............-.2.65 3.50 5.30 6.10 (Variance in price due to amount of Cutout Edge.......... 6.10
Embroidering  Aprons - Unfinished: embroidering...........50