[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 27 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorials: Birthday Greetings to President Heber J. Grant President Amy Brown Lyman]
president.
Though relieved by the Treaty of Paris (1919) from respecting the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk (1918), and though victorious in war with several border states, within which she hoped to establish friendly Bolshevik governments, the Soviet Union persevered in the policy of recognizing the independence of the nationalities formerly subject to her. Thus, by a series of treaties signed in 1920, she recognized the independence of Finland, Poland, Estonia, Latvia (comprising the Letts of Livonia and Courland), and Lithuania. In July 1921, Russia and Finland signed a neutrality pact and, in 1925, an arbitration treaty. The Treaty of Dorpat (October 1920), defined the Russo-Finnish frontier. By this treaty, Finland renounced her claims 640 to East Karelia, while Russia surrendered her claims to Petsamo, which thereupon became Finland's only ice-free port on the Arctic Sea. The long quarrel with Sweden over the Aaland Islands was referred to the Council of the League of Nations. This body on June 24, 1921, recognized the claim of Finland to the islands but insisted that they remain unfortified. This decision led to the calling of a regional conference on Baltic problems in October 1921. The result was a multilateral treaty, signed April 6, 1922, by Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Latvia, Germany, Poland, Great Britain, France and Italy, guaranteeing the neutrality and international protection of the Aaland Islands. In 1921, Finland appealed to the League of Nations in behalf of the Finnish population of eastern Karelia. The Finns claimed that the Russians were not allowing the Karelian Finns the right of self government as they had promised to do by the Treaty of Dorpat (1920). However, neither the League Council nor the Permanent Court of International Justice to which the problem was finally referred, did anything to satiate the Finns, because each organization hesitated to challenge the Soviet Republic. The situation continued unchanged, and it proved to be one of the roots of the present Russo-Finnish War, for the Finns are fighting today to annex Karelia. Beginning with the Litvinov Pact (1929), in which Russia, Poland, Latvia, Rumania, Lithuania, Turkey, and Persia agreed to patch up their border differences, Russia entered into similar conventions with Finland, Italy, Czechoslovakia,  
Yugoslavia, Afghanistan and Mongolia. IN the fall of 1939, Russia took full advantage of Germany's preoccupation in the west to strengthen her own strategic positions, ostensibly for the purpose of acquiring better frontiers for future defense against Germany.
Thus in September 1939, the Russians and Germans partitioned hapless Poland; and, on September 29, October 5, and October 10, respectively, the Soviet Government, through treaties with the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, acquired the right to establish military, naval and air bases in their territories, and thus reduced the three states to strategic vassalage. But the republic of Finland did not meet the Soviet overtures with the same complacency. The Russians demanded of Finland territorial concessions on the Karelian Isthmus for the better security of Leningrad, territorial concessions in the Petsamo area for the defense of Murmansk; and a naval base at Hango.
When the Finns refused, Russia, ignoring her Russo-Finnish Non-aggression Pact, began her attack on the Republic, November 30, 1939. The next day (December 1st), she set up a puppet government at Teryoki.
Thus began the second Russo-Finnish War. The Finns appealed to the League of Nations and, on December 14.
That body declared Russia the aggressor, and expelled her from the organization. In the United States widespread sympathy was expressed for Finland's cause.
Credit for nonmilitary supplies was extended through the U. S.
Export and Import Bank, and the American people gave FINLAND generously for Finnish