[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Pohlman]
Editorial  Notes:  We  gratefully  acknowledge  a  beautiful  bouquet  of  choice  late 
flowers,  which  came  like  a  sunbeam,  from  Mrs.  Jane  Holt  of  East  Bountiful;  also  some 
pretty,  sweet-scented  wild  flowers  and  gaily  colored  Autumn  leaves,  from  little  Caroline 
Crocheron. 
*  *  * 
Salt  Lake  City  Hospitals.  Mrs.  B.  Spurlock:  'Tor  whosoever  shall  do  the  will  of 
my  Father  which  is  in  heaven  the  same  is  my  brother  and  sister  and  mother,"  prompted 
me  to  seek  out  those  whose  hearts  were  tender  and  true  to  suffering  humanity;  that  I 
might  clasp  hands  with  them  and  whisper  a  word  of  comfort  to  those  whose  keeping  was 
entrusted  to  their  care  in  this  city. 
First  in  course  I  came  to  St.  Marks  Hospital,  well  governed  methought.  .  .  .  Here 
we  found  the  kind,  intelligent  gentlewoman,  Mrs.  Front,  in  the  keeping  of  the  same, 
who  has  given  direction  and  carried  it  forward  for  years.  Every  where  an  atmosphere 
of  comfort  and  quiet  and  continuous  attention  is  to  be  observed  .  .  . 
Next  I  visited  the  "Hospital  of  the  Holy  Cross."  This  name,  too,  is  talismanic, 
and  no  misnomer,  wide  spreading  grounds  beautifully  designed,  and  a  magnificent  build- 
ing, delighting  the  eye  of  the  passer-by  and  cheering  the  incoming  patients.  Here  "Sisters 
of  the  Sacred  Heart"  are  moving  up  and  down  the  commodious  halls,  in  and  out  of  the 
wards  with  noiseless  tread"  ... 
Third,  and  last  in  our  course,  came  the  "Deseret  Hospital"  .  .  .  Here  we  find  the 
old  Deseret  University  converted  into  an  "infirmary,"  giving  to  its  inmates  large,  airy 
rooms,  well  arranged  and  a  delightful  ventilation.  An  air  of  home-like  feeling  greets 
you  on  its  very  threshold  ... 
Closing  I  will  say  of  these  homes  for  the  afflicted:     They  have  no  holidays  or  "red 
tape"  ...  I  have  ever  found  the  same  watchful  vigilance  and  tender  care  being  evinced  .  .  . 
*  «  * 
On  his  eighty-fourth  birthday^  Mr.  George  Bancroft  received  congratulations  from 
all  parts  of  the  world,  cablegrams  coming  from  Germany,  England,  and  France, 
The  Cover:     The  cover  is  from  a  photograph  of  the  bridge  in  Liberty  Park,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah.

-•     ^ 
^    z 
3      = 
-O        ♦: 
♦-         __  JO 
B      I 
T5     ™    -^    a     E     E    "~    ^    =s    — 
S      '5 
-n     -s= 
-o      «S 
en      I. 
if      oi 
:£    ^ 
"'"    -c    .a     Qu 
S  o      ^     *~     *2     ^^      ( 
S      a     ==      o

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price 
Eldei  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
THE  Pearl  of  Great  Price  is  the  Joseph  Smithj  containing  ''an  Ex- 
title  of  a  small  volume  which  tract  from  a  Translation  of  the  Bible, 
has  been  accepted  by  the  Being  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of 
Church  as  one  of  the  standard  Matthew,  commencing  with  the 
works.  It  is  a  compilation  of  "reve-  last  verse  of  the  twenty-third  chap- 
lations,  translations,  and  narrations/'  ter.  King  James'  Version,"  and  ex- 
taken  from  the  history  and  inspired  cerpts  from  the  history  of  Joseph 
writings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and'  (4)  The  Articles  of 
Smith.    The  first  edition  was  pub-  Faith. 
lished  in  Liverpool  by  Franklin  D.  The  revision  of  the  Bible  by  reve- 
Richards,  who  was  then  presiding  in  lation  commenced  shortly  after  the 
the  European  Mission,  in  the  year  organization    of    the    Church    and 
1851.    The  first  edition  contained  a  when  Sidney  Rigdon  came  into  the 
number  of  excerpts  and  revelations  Church  he  was  called  to  act  as  scribe 
which  were  later  eliminated  because  for  the    Prophet.     The    additional 
they  appear  in    the    Doctrine  and  scripture  which  we  have  received  in 
Covenants.    These  are:  "A  key  to  these    few    pages,   which    comprise 
the  revelation  of  John,"  section  77  about  as  much  as  does  the  Book  of 
in  the    Doctrine    and    Covenants;  Mark,  is  of  the  greatest  value  to  the 
the  prophecy    on  war,    section  97,  Church  because  of  the  additional 
Doctrine  and   Covenants;   passages  light  which  is  revealed    concerning 
from  sections  20,  107,  27;  and  the  the  history  and  doctrine  of    those 
hymn  by  Elder  John  Jacques— "O  early  times  before  the  flood,  making 
Say,  What  Is  Truth?"    In  this  com-  known  the  fact  that  the  fullness  of 
pilation  the  prophecy  on  war,  which  the  gospel  was  given  to  Adam  and 
was  given  Christmas  Day,  1832,  was  his  posterity.    In  this  record  many 
published  for  the  first  time,  and  it  of  the  precious  truths  which    were 
will  be  seen  this  was  ten  years  before  taken  away  have  been  restored, 
the  rebellion  of  South  Carolina.  The  Book  oi  Abraham  is  a  trans- 
The  recent  editions  of  the  Pearl  lation  of  a  record  kept  by  Abraham 
of  Great  Price  have  been  divided  in-  which  came  into  the  hands  of  the 
to  the  following  divisions:  (1)  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  a  miracu- 
Book  of  Moses,  which  is  a  portion  lous  manner  while  he  was  residing 
of  the  revision  made  by  the  Prophet  in  Kirtland,  Ohio.    The  papyrus  on 
Joseph  Smith  of    the    Bible,  com-  which  this  record  was  v^itten  came 
mencing     with     the     ''Visions     of  from  the  catacombs  of  Egypt  and 
Moses,"  containing  the  words  which  was  purchased  by  the  saints.     The 
the  Lord  "spake  ...  at  a  time  when  detailed  account  of  how  this  hap- 
Moses  was  caught  up  into  an   ex-  pened  I  will  not  relate,  for  it  has 
ceedingly  high  mountain."  (2)  The  been  published  several  times  and  can 
BooJk  of  Abraham.  (3)  Writings  of  be  found    in    the    History    of    the 
Page  61 1

612  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1944 
Church,  Vol.  2,  pages  235,  236,  348,  prophecy.     To  him  the  Lord  said: 
349  and  350.    It  is  also  given  in  the 
M.I.A.  Course  of  Study,  Adult  De-  ^"^'  "°^'  ^^^^S'  "^y  ^o";  ^  ^^^^  ^P^^ 
,          .  £      .  I.                     o  unto  thee  concernine  this  earth  upon  which 
partment  for  the  year  1938-39.  ^^^^  ^^^^^^^^.  and  thou  shalt  write  the 
The    Church    has    accepted    the  things  which  I  shall  speak. 
writings  of  Moses  and  the  writings  And  in  a  day  when  the  children  of  men 
of  Abraham  as  revelations  to  Joseph  shall  esteem  my  words  as  naught  and  take 
Smith,  as  glorious  additions  to  the  many  of  them  from  the  book  which  thou 
doctrines  of  the  Church.  It  is  be-  f^,^^^  ^"^^'  ^^^«^^'  \  
"^'^^  '^''l  "P  u"''?'^' 
1  .  -1  •  j.T_  .  hke  unto  thee:  and  they  shall  be  had 
COmmg  a  popular  teachmg  that  again  among  the  children  of  men-among 
Moses  did  not  write  the  Book  of  as  many  as  shall  believe. 
Genesis,  but  that  it  is  a  compila- 
tion of  several  authors  giving  differ-  That  one  who  was  to  be  raised  up 
ent  accounts  of  the  matters  is  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  we 
which  this  Book  contains.  It  is  should  be  humbly  grateful  that  the 
interesting  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  Lord  has  fulfilled  his  words  to 
to  read  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  Moses,  through  the  Prophet  of  the 
Moses  in  relation  to  the  teachings  of  Dispensation  of  the  Fullness  of 
our  times,    which    he    received  bv  Times. 
THANKFUL  THOUGHTS 
Gertrude  Perry  Stanton 
November  is  not  bleak  and  drear 
Though  trees  are  gaunt  and  winds  are  chill; 
Around  the  hearth  is  warmth  and  cheer, 
When  ice-bound  is  each  lake  and  rill. 
The  books  that  one  has  longed  to  read, 
The  friends  who  come  to  chat,  will  bring 
To  these  gray,  shortened  days  their  meed 
Of  joy  bright  as  spring's  blossoming. 
And  when  has  come  that  day  of  days 
While  dear  ones  gather  in  the  home 
To  feast,  and  render  grateful  praise 
For  good  things  past  and  still  to  come. 
We  thank  thee,  God,  for  all  thy  gifts. 
Cherished  in  wintry  days  like  these; 
True  friendships  held  from  year  to  year. 
And  Oh,  thank  him  for  families!

Why  A  Singer  Should  Keep  the 
Word  of  Wisdom 
Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen  • 
WE   who   were   children   fifty  had  read  enough  to  know  that  all 
years  ago  kept  the  Word  of  wines  and  liquors  are  drying  to  the 
Wisdom  because  our  parents  throat  as  well  as  exhilarating  to  the 
taught  us  that  it  had  been  revealed  heart,  and  that  when  one  is  standing 
by  the  Lord  to  Joseph    Smith,  the  before  the  public  to  sing  in  opera, 
Prophet.     Then,  later,  many  of  us  they  make  him  more  nervous  than 
who  went  to  Europe  to  study  and  he  is  already.     Had  I  not    already 
travel  learned  its  importance  through  been  convinced  by  the  teachings  of 
experience.     When  I    was  on  the  my  childhood  and  the  reading    of 
boat  making  my  first  trip  across  the  my  young  womanhood,  I  would  have 
Atlantic  Ocean  I  was  very  seasick,  been  won  over  to  the  ill  effects  of 
and  was  confined  to  my  stateroom  using  liquor  by  the  advice  of  my 
for  several  days.     I  was  on  a  small  colleagues  when  I  reached  the  opera 
steamer  that  took  ten  days  to  cross  house  where  I  made  my  debut,  for 
the   ocean,    and   the   boat   pitched  they  said,  '1  see  you  are  not  taking 
and   rolled    considerably.   When    I  anything  to  drink  before  going  on 
reached  the  deck,  I  was  white  from  the  stage,  Miss  Gates."    I  answered 
nausea  and  weak  from  lack  of  food,  that  I  never  had,  and  that  I  did  not 
I  was  an  object  of  pity  to  my  fellow  believe    in    doing   so.     Then    they 
passengers,  and  the  word  of  my  ill-  urged,  "Never  begin  it,  for  if  you  do, 
ness  soon  reached  the  ears  of   the  you  will  regret  it." 
ship's  doctor.  In  due  time,  the  deck  I  remember  the  second  time  I  had 
boy  came    along   with    a    glass    of  liquor  offered  me.    It  was  after  I  had 
sparkling  yellow  liquid  and  offered  been     in     Germany     about     eight 
it  to  me.    I  gave  one  look  at  it  and  months.    I  had  the  great  privilege  of 
said,  'Take  your  beer  away.  Tannic;  going  to    the    graduating    banquet 
I  want  none  of  it."  with  Dr.    John    A.    Widtsoe,    my 
"Beer!"  he  said  very  disgustedly,  brother-in-law,  who  was  receiving  his 
"this  is  not  beer,    but  champagne,  doctor's    degree    from    Gottingen, 
the  finest  thing  we  have  on  the  boat,  one  of  Europe's  greatest  universities. 
The  doctor  says  you  must  take  it!"  It  was  an  elegant  affair,  and  with  the 
So  I  drank  it;  and  while  it  settled  first  course  red  wine  was  offered, 
my  stomach,  its  other  affects  were  I  said,  "No,  thank  you."    The  young 
anything  but  desirable.  man  on  my  left  said,  "Oh,  perhaps 
That  was  my  introduction  to  the  you  prefer  white  wine?"     Again    I 
wines  of  Europe.    Although  I  tasted  said,  "No,  thank  you."     Then    he 
other  kinds  while    there,  the  occa-  urged,  "Let  me  get  you  some  beer." 
sions  were  rare;  I  realized  I  could  not  Again  I  said,  "I  don't  drink    that 
make  a  practice  of  using  them.     I  either."     "Oh,"  he  said,  "You  are 
Page  613