[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: s Birthday Lyman]
^   s 
VOL.  31  HO.  11 
lesiKms  for  f^mmr¥  H 
069    ON  ilWi!3d 
Hvin  'AID  3>ivi  nvs 
30visod  s  n

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Monthly  publication  of  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
RELIEF 
Amy  Brown  Lyman 
Marcia  K.   Howells 
Belle   S.    Spafford 
Vera    W.    Pohlman 
SOCIETY    GENERAL BOARD 
President 
First   Counselor 
Second  Counselor 
-    Secretary-Treasurer 
Donna  D.  Sorensen 
Vivian  R.  McConkie 
Leda  T.  Jensen 
Rae  B.  Barker 
Nellie  O.  Parker 
Anna  S.  Barlow 
Editor 
Associate  Editor 
General  Manager    - 
Achsa  E.    Paxman 
Mary  G.  Judd 
Luella  N.  Adams 
Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Anna  B.  Hart 
Gertrude  R.  Garff 
Leona  F.  Wintch 
Edith  S.  Elliott 
Pauline  T.   Pingree 
Alice  B.  Castleton 
RELIEF    SOCIETY    MAGAZINE 
Priscilla  L.  Evans 
Florence  J.  Madsen 
Ann  P.  Nibley 
Agnes  M.  Bolto 
Leone  G.  Layton 
Belle  S.  Spafford 
Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Amy   Brown   Lyman 
Vol.  31 
NOVEMBER  1944 
No.  11 
e on  tents 
SPECIAL  FEATURES 
The  Pearl  of  Great  Price    : 
 Eider  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  611 
Why  a  Singer  Should  Keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom    Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen  613 
For    Thy    Bounties    
 Marguerite    J.    Griffin  616 
Finland   
 Dr.    Leland  Hargrove   Creer  620 
What  an   Old   Trunk  May  Bring   Forth  
 WiUiam   R.  Palmer  626 
Lula    Greene    Richards    
  642 
Ironing    Procedures    
 Claire    P.    Dorius  657 
FICTION 
Money   Isn't    Everything    
 ._. 
 Olive   C.    Wehr  618 
Forward,    Without   Fear    (Chapter   IV)    
 Dorothy   Clapp  Robinson  643 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
Sixty  Years  Ago  
  609 
Woman's    Sphere      _ 
 Ramona    W.    Cannon  629 
Editorials:     Birthday  Greetings  to  President  Heber  J.  Grant   President  Amy  Brown  Lyman  630 
Wise  Spending    Counselor  Belle  S.  Spafford  631 
Notes    to    the    Field    
  632 
Notes  from  the  Field:     Relief  Society  War  and  Welfare  Services  in  Missions    (Continued) 
     General  Secretary-Treasurer  Vera  W.  Pohlman  650 
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
Theology:     The  Kirtland  Period  
 Dr.  H.  Wayne  Driggs  659 
Visiting  Teachers'  Messages:     Blessed  Are  The  Merciful    Elder  Bryant  S.  Hinckley  663 
Literature:     Gospel  Literature  of  St.  John  
 Dr.  Howard  R.   Driggs  664 
Social   Science:      Freedom   and   Responsibility     Dr.    Howard   T.    Christensen  668 
POETRY 
Thankful    Thoughts    
 Gertrude   Perry   Stanton  612 
In    November   Beatrice    Knowlton    Ekman  628 
All   These   Remain  
 Betty  Wall  Madsen  638 
Superscription    
 Jessie    Miller    Robinson  658 
God's    Garden    
 Daphne    Jemmett  572 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah,  Phone  3-2741.  Ex.  243. 
Subscription  Price:  $1.00  a  year;  foreign,  $1.00  a  year;  payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  10c. 
The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be 
missed.     Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  both  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
MAGAZINE  CIRCULATION,  71,000

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
VOL.  31,   NO.  11  NOVEMBER  1944 
Sixti/    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponents,  October  i,  and  October  15,  1884 
"The  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion,  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
What  Women  Are  Doing:  A  statue  to  a  woman  has  been  unveiled  recently  in 
New  Orleans.  The  first  erected  to  a  woman  in  the  United  States.  It  is  to  Margaret 
Houhgery,  who  devoted  her  immense  wealth  to  the  care  of  orphan  children. 
Women  took  out  patents  during  the  week  ending  September  30,  1884,  as  follows: 
,  .  .  Heat  Indicator  for  ovens  .  .  .  Combined  bureau  and  bedstead;  also  combined  folding 
bedstead  and  table.  .  .  .  The  following  patents  were  granted  to  women:  .  .  .  Improved 
Gridiron  .  .  .  Fruit  Press  .  .  .  Device  for  raising  and  lowering  windows. — Ex. 
*  *  * 
Editorial  Notes:  We  gratefully  acknowledge  a  beautiful  bouquet  of  choice  late 
flowers,  which  came  like  a  sunbeam,  from  Mrs.  Jane  Holt  of  East  Bountiful;  also  some 
pretty,  sweet-scented  wild  flowers  and  gaily  colored  Autumn  leaves,  from  little  Caroline 
Crocheron. 
*  *  * 
Salt  Lake  City  Hospitals.  Mrs.  B.  Spurlock:  'Tor  whosoever  shall  do  the  will  of 
my  Father  which  is  in  heaven  the  same  is  my  brother  and  sister  and  mother,"  prompted 
me  to  seek  out  those  whose  hearts  were  tender  and  true  to  suffering  humanity;  that  I 
might  clasp  hands  with  them  and  whisper  a  word  of  comfort  to  those  whose  keeping  was 
entrusted  to  their  care  in  this  city. 
First  in  course  I  came  to  St.  Marks  Hospital,  well  governed  methought.  .  .  .  Here 
we  found  the  kind,  intelligent  gentlewoman,  Mrs.  Front,  in  the  keeping  of  the  same, 
who  has  given  direction  and  carried  it  forward  for  years.  Every  where  an  atmosphere 
of  comfort  and  quiet  and  continuous  attention  is  to  be  observed  .  .  . 
Next  I  visited  the  "Hospital  of  the  Holy  Cross."  This  name,  too,  is  talismanic, 
and  no  misnomer,  wide  spreading  grounds  beautifully  designed,  and  a  magnificent  build- 
ing, delighting  the  eye  of  the  passer-by  and  cheering  the  incoming  patients.  Here  "Sisters 
of  the  Sacred  Heart"  are  moving  up  and  down  the  commodious  halls,  in  and  out  of  the 
wards  with  noiseless  tread"  ... 
Third,  and  last  in  our  course,  came  the  "Deseret  Hospital"  .  .  .  Here  we  find  the 
old  Deseret  University  converted  into  an  "infirmary,"  giving  to  its  inmates  large,  airy 
rooms,  well  arranged  and  a  delightful  ventilation.  An  air  of  home-like  feeling  greets 
you  on  its  very  threshold  ... 
Closing  I  will  say  of  these  homes  for  the  afflicted:     They  have  no  holidays  or  "red 
tape"  ...  I  have  ever  found  the  same  watchful  vigilance  and  tender  care  being  evinced  .  .  . 
*  «  * 
On  his  eighty-fourth  birthday^  Mr.  George  Bancroft  received  congratulations  from 
all  parts  of  the  world,  cablegrams  coming  from  Germany,  England,  and  France, 
The  Cover:     The  cover  is  from  a  photograph  of  the  bridge  in  Liberty  Park,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah.

-•     ^ 
^    z 
3      = 
-O        ♦: 
♦-         __  JO 
B      I 
T5     ™    -^    a     E     E    "~    ^    =s    — 
S      '5 
-n     -s= 
-o      «S 
en      I. 
if      oi 
:£    ^ 
"'"    -c    .a     Qu 
S  o      ^     *~     *2     ^^      ( 
S      a     ==      o

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price 
Eldei  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
THE  Pearl  of  Great  Price  is  the  Joseph  Smithj  containing  ''an  Ex- 
title  of  a  small  volume  which  tract  from  a  Translation  of  the  Bible, 
has  been  accepted  by  the  Being  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of 
Church  as  one  of  the  standard  Matthew,  commencing  with  the 
works.  It  is  a  compilation  of  "reve-  last  verse  of  the  twenty-third  chap- 
lations,  translations,  and  narrations/'  ter.  King  James'  Version,"  and  ex- 
taken  from  the  history  and  inspired  cerpts  from  the  history  of  Joseph 
writings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and'  (4)  The  Articles  of 
Smith.    The  first  edition  was  pub-  Faith. 
lished  in  Liverpool  by  Franklin  D.  The  revision  of  the  Bible  by  reve- 
Richards,  who  was  then  presiding  in  lation  commenced  shortly  after  the 
the  European  Mission,  in  the  year  organization    of    the    Church    and 
1851.    The  first  edition  contained  a  when  Sidney  Rigdon  came  into  the 
number  of  excerpts  and  revelations  Church  he  was  called  to  act  as  scribe 
which  were  later  eliminated  because  for  the    Prophet.     The    additional 
they  appear  in    the    Doctrine  and  scripture  which  we  have  received  in 
Covenants.    These  are:  "A  key  to  these    few    pages,   which    comprise 
the  revelation  of  John,"  section  77  about  as  much  as  does  the  Book  of 
in  the    Doctrine    and    Covenants;  Mark,  is  of  the  greatest  value  to  the 
the  prophecy    on  war,    section  97,  Church  because  of  the  additional 
Doctrine  and   Covenants;   passages  light  which  is  revealed    concerning 
from  sections  20,  107,  27;  and  the  the  history  and  doctrine  of    those 
hymn  by  Elder  John  Jacques— "O  early  times  before  the  flood,  making 
Say,  What  Is  Truth?"    In  this  com-  known  the  fact  that  the  fullness  of 
pilation  the  prophecy  on  war,  which  the  gospel  was  given  to  Adam  and 
was  given  Christmas  Day,  1832,  was  his  posterity.    In  this  record  many 
published  for  the  first  time,  and  it  of  the  precious  truths  which    were 
will  be  seen  this  was  ten  years  before  taken  away  have  been  restored, 
the  rebellion  of  South  Carolina.  The  Book  oi  Abraham  is  a  trans- 
The  recent  editions  of  the  Pearl  lation  of  a  record  kept  by  Abraham 
of  Great  Price  have  been  divided  in-  which  came  into  the  hands  of  the 
to  the  following  divisions:  (1)  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  a  miracu- 
Book  of  Moses,  which  is  a  portion  lous  manner  while  he  was  residing 
of  the  revision  made  by  the  Prophet  in  Kirtland,  Ohio.    The  papyrus  on 
Joseph  Smith  of    the    Bible,  com-  which  this  record  was  v^itten  came 
mencing     with     the     ''Visions     of  from  the  catacombs  of  Egypt  and 
Moses,"  containing  the  words  which  was  purchased  by  the  saints.     The 
the  Lord  "spake  ...  at  a  time  when  detailed  account  of  how  this  hap- 
Moses  was  caught  up  into  an   ex-  pened  I  will  not  relate,  for  it  has 
ceedingly  high  mountain."  (2)  The  been  published  several  times  and  can 
BooJk  of  Abraham.  (3)  Writings  of  be  found    in    the    History    of    the 
Page  61 1