[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 28 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorials: Birthday Greetings to President Heber J. Grant President Amy Brown Lyman]
president of the Canadian Mission Relief Society, writes as follows concerning the "Bundles for Britain" project which is carried on by the Relief Society women of this mission: "During the Battle of Britain, when hearts and homes of members of this mission were severely torn, the idea of sending bundles to Britain was born. Sister Johan Mark, a faithful member from Scotland whose own mother died as a result of the blitz, was the originator of the idea, with the approval and full support of the mission presidents, President David A. Smith and Sister Emily Smith and of their successors, the late President Joseph Quinney and Sister Ida Quinney. "Twenty pounds per month was the amount allowed by shipping authorities, so early in this year, when President Octave W. Ursenbach was appointed as mission president and Sister Jessie R. Ursenbach was set apart to preside over the Relief Societies, letters were sent out to all Relief Societies, requesting that this be made a mission project. 'Showers for Britain' in connection Page 650 with their annual day commemorations were suggested, so that there would be plenty of clothing always ready, and the bundles could be sent out as regularly and as often as permitted.; "The letters met with enthusiastic co-operation, and, very soon, bundles large and small began arriving at the mission home. Many organizations sent several beautiful bundles. They were filled with warm, clean necessities for the newborn, and for children mostly from six to ten years of age, with some for adults as well. 'The care with which they were prepared bore eloquent testimony of the loving mother-hearts behind the project. Everything was clean and ready for shipment. "Each bundle was accompanied by a postal note of three dollars, the sum necessary to insure its delivery to Britain. In some cases the second bundle with the second postal note arrived from the same organization, and always with some expression; such as, 'When you need more, let us know,' "We are already preparing winter things,' or 'We will soon send another bundle of things to you.' "The joy of Relief Society sisters in preparing these bundles has been expressed by letter, verbally, and by the tiny stitches, touches of delicate embroidery, and individuality that went into their careful preparation.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 651 PACKING A BUNDLE FOR BRITAIN Left to right: Missionary Virginia Parker, formerly, mission Relief Society supervisor listing articles received; Johan Mark, originator of Branch Relief Society presidency; Margaret Zu formerly mission Relief Society supervisor, list the idea and formerly a counselor in the Toronto Branch Relief Society; Gertrude Wagner, secretary, Toronto Branch Relief Society: Missionary Genevieve Bird; at extreme right, Jessie R. Mission President Octave W. Ursenbach. KITCHENER BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CANADIAN MISSION Seated are the officers, left to right: Mrs. E. Steinmetz, first counselor; Mrs. E. Willis, president; Mrs. A. Willis, second counselor; Mrs. J. W. Stott, Jr., secretary-treasurer. Standing fourth from the left is Lillian C. Roberts, formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board, who with her husband, Elder I, B. Roberts, of Raymond, Alberta, Canada, is laboring as a full-time missionary. We know this service has drawn our sisters who have participated closer together in a bond of mutual companionship, such as can be found only where unselfish, loving service is given in a worthy human cause. "The bundles go out regularly, and Sister Ursenbach and her willing, enthusiastic workers are trying to arrange with the shipping authorities to send them oftener, that the needs of our dear ones over there who suffer may be filled as have the hearts of the Canadian sisters who have so lovingly, willingly given." KINGSTON BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CANADIAN MISSION A new Society, recently organized, with President Leora Todd and Secretary Delcie Knobes standing: at the extreme right, respectively. BRANTFORD BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CANADIAN MISSION Left to right: Jean Sharpe, Eliza Sharp, Counselor Marie Jamieson, President Rose Vanderlip. Secretary Mae Bayliss, and Elsie Kennedy. Counselor Laura Lewis was not present when
the picture was taken.  The Oshawa Branch Relief Society, Canadian Mission, although sustained by only four members and two missionaries, has been exceptionally co-operative in the mission-wide "Bundles for Britain" project. The Oshawa sisters found it very difficult to raise the $3 needed to dispatch each bundle, but they made and sold aprons and obtained funds to finance a second bundle. Of the fifteen Societies in the mission, Oshawa was the only one which sent double
its quota, when the first bundles were received at mission headquarters. Sister Esther Ward, seated center, very happily offers her home or the meetings. She is 84 years of age. Standing, left to right, are Nelda Pierson, missionary ; Ella Crouter, president ; Wanda Wannamaker, Mrs. Thomas Dalgleish, Jr., and Evelyn Knowles, missionary. TORONTO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CANADIAN MISSION
Seated in front, beginning second from left, are: Secretary Gertrude Wagner, Counselor Johan Mark, President Margaret Zuber, and Jessie R. Ursenbach, mission Relief Society president. Counselor Martin does not appear in the picture.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Spanish-American Mission IVIE H. JONES, President of the Relief Societies of the Spanish. American Mission, standing service in teaching sewing skills to the women through the medicles and also Containing recipes, other useful folders ate provided so that each member may have <t Personal copies of these mimeostaphed sheets. In her travels throughout the mis. Sion, Sister Jones carries several exhibits in order to demonstrate to the kindly Prepared a description of each these articles in sufficient detail to help others desiring to adopt these Suggestions, Supplementing the Photograph are sketches showing utilization of a man's used shirt for an oatmeal carton, three-pound s1ze, covered with crash decorated with bright touches of embroidery and  654
Diagram showing the cutting of dust cap, half sleeves, child?s panties and baby rompers from man?s used shirt, applique from old felt hats. After learning to make the fitted bottom for this bag, the women have been able to adapt the idea in making
fitted coverings for chairs, suitcases, et cetera. The attractive cord for the bag, made of two colors of silkaline, twisted on the wheel of a sewing machine, has stimulated the making of similar cords for dress trimmings, curtain tiebacks, strings for children's mittens, and many other purposes. On July 27, Sister Jones wrote: "Since April conference, I have visited every Relief Society in the mission and every district where we have Relief Society sisters, even
though they have no organization whatever. We are losing our elders rapidly, and are closing a number of districts within the next week or so, but, in the face of all of it, conditions in the Relief Societies are very much on the upturn. We have had good attendance, there being a total of 389 in attendance at Relief Society meetings over the mission. This is better than 100 more than our total enrollment, which shows that our sisters have done a splendid piece of work in interesting investigators. ?Every Relief Society now owns a quilting frame excepting Mercedes, Texas, and they could not buy lumber as there isn't a foot of it in the town. Every Relief Society has made one quilt and sent to mission headquarters, and all are now working on comforters or quilts for their own
members. The project is going over even better than I could have hoped for. 654
Articles from Several Exhibits Used by Ivie H. Jones, Mission Relief Society President, in the Relief Societies of the Spanish-American Mission. (See accompanying detailed descriptions) NOTES FROM THE FIELD 655 EXHIBIT 1?ARTICLES FROM USED FELT HATS ARTICLE 1?HAT MADE FROM MAN'S HAT: (a) Sweat band removed; (b) Crown folded at top of ribbon band, and then crown turned inside out; (c) Brim tilted slightly in front and bright red feather slipped under ribbon band at side front. Time required, exclusive of cleaning?two minutes. ARTICLE 2?CROWN OF MAN'S BLACK HAT AND WOMAN'S WHITE HAT MAKE THIS CREATION: Crown on man's hat was badly worn at the crease on top so a freehand design was cut out and stitched by hand onto the crown of the white hat. Horsehair braid bow in front. ARTICLES 3, 4?BABY SHOES: Brims of both hats were used for baby shoes. Surplus of crown of man's hat used for toe piece of shoe, since brim was rather stiff for that purpose. ARTICLE 5?KNITTING BAG: Tan crash bag with design made from used felt hats, slipped over a 3-pound oatmeal carton. Fitted bottom and double drawstring at top made of two colors of silkaline are neat features. Drawstring is twisted on wheel of sewing machine. EXHIBIT 2?ARTICLES MADE OF MAN'S SHIRT Many useful articles can be made from a used shirt; however, like many other pieces of used clothing, if the shirt must be ripped, recut, and finishings made, the material will not justify the labor. These particular articles are designed to take advantage of seams, hems, buttonholes, etc. ARTICLE 6?HALF SLEEVES TO WEAR IN