[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Nellie O. Wood]

Nellie O. Parker By Evelyn N. Wood
NELLIE O. PARKER comes to the General Board with the best wishes and love of all who know her. When such women are called to this high office, it is not hard to see the workings of the Spirit of Inspiration in the selection of our leaders. She comes well prepared; schooled in spirit and mind, even as a rose full blown in a shady glen gives willingly of its perfume and beauty, gathered from a life time of purposeful living. But even as with the rose, there has been a time of preparation, a gathering of the opportunities around, to mellow her judgment and soften her heart. Born into a home
NELLIE O. PARKER
where individual effort counted much, she was early taught the values of life by a frugal mother. Two quotations remained in her memory from early childhood: "Remember, life is just about what you make it," and "Where there is a will, there is a way." These stood out as beacons, lighting each avenue whereon she must travel. But this was only part of her training. Her father was an exact complement to her mother and of a highly spiritual nature. Nellie, as a composite picture of both of them was able to put order in her days, sweep out the clutter, and keep her mind and body strong and clean in order to reach her goal. They gave her a passion for accuracy, but not at the expense of beauty. She possesses a sensitive awareness of the motives and feelings of people, so that with the least effort, she is able to get the best from her associates.
SHE had been taught that the purpose of every Latter-day Saint life is to give willingly of her time and talents to the Church. With a conviction that the Spirit of the Lord can make even the ordinary man, extraordinary, she resolved to take advantage of this leadership training. At the age of thirteen she was called to be secretary of the Primary, and later a teacher. Then the Gleaner class was a real thrill to her, and later as President of the Mutual, she received a fine training in the viewpoint of young people.
SISTER PARKER was graduated from the Brigham Young University, and taught in the Provo schools for four years before she
NELLIE O.
Joined Brother Parker, then a struggling young man with an ambition for law. During their stay at the University of Michigan, she was able to further satisfy her hunger for knowledge, by taking courses along with her husband.
HER first introduction to Relief Society Board work came when she was asked to be assistant secretary on Sister Keeler's board of Utah Stake. She had previously taught the Literary lessons in the ward in those intervals between five babies. When her husband was appointed Attorney General for the State of Utah, they left Provo to make their home in Salt Lake City.
BESIDES her work in the Church, Sister Parker has been very active in social organizations. A natural-born executive, she has been president of the Nelke Reading Club, Sorossus, Delphian, and president of the Uintah Parent Teacher's Association. Under her leadership the first Summer School in the Uintah School District was organized.
IN THE spring of 1929, just a few months after she had come to Salt Lake, Sister Emmeretta Brown called Sister Parker to the Granite Stake Board as the Literary teacher. Then when Sister Latimer was taken as the counselor, Nellie was asked to take her place as the Social Service Leader, and when Sister Latimer was made the new president, she asked Sister Parker to be her counselor. But events were happening fast; a new Stake, Highland Stake, was to be created, and she was to become its first Stake President. Under this new position she grew and developed easily and graciously. Her Board was efficient, each one doing her best, not because she was driven, but when in her presence it was just naturally ex-
PARKER
pected that each give her all; she was the sort of person to whom one willingly gave allegiance. She believed that while Relief Society must take care of the physical needs of the people in the Church, that it must also offer cultural training for women. She therefore sought to encourage every advantage for the educational guidance of mothers. In accordance with this spirit, Ward libraries were encouraged. Each woman was urged to contribute a good book. The Stake also collected a library, which was at the disposal of any Ward at its request. Some of the Wards were able to collect as many as 150 books in one year.
BUT the practical side of her must also have its turn, and she conducted a demonstration of the uses of made-over clothing, All the women were encouraged to make something useful and good looking, from something used, and all of these were placed on display at the Stake House. Those who love her have memories that stand out on the horizon of her leadership, memories of situations that could have caused feelings and friction. Odd little occasions that no one could have anticipated were thrust upon her. There would be a tense moment, as all waited, with faces turned toward her. Then somehow her arms would go around two people, a nice comment would be made about the integrity of both. All was running smoothly again, before many knew that a crisis had been passed. Her oil of human kindness and understanding soothed many troubled waters before even those waters knew that a storm had been nigh.
IN the Spring and Summer, troubles began to arise at home. Her husband needed more of her
time. For just a moment she was confused. Then with that clear vision that she possessed, her mind was made up. There must be no room for regrets. The promise that she had made to herself on her wedding day, that nothing should ever come before home and family stood out in her mind. She was constant in her devotion and so courageous throughout his long sickness. No sacrifice was too great if it was for her home or her family. She was just beginning. There were so many wonderful things that she could see to be done. She had been given only one year to accomplish all that her heart told her she could do. But it was not hard for Sister Parker to give it up, and never would she consider it a sacrifice. Hers was the happy faculty of being able to adjust to any condition and finding a way to be happy in it. Her resignation was sent in to President Ashton and accepted. That one never loses out by doing the thing
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that is right, has always been one of her firm convictions. Whether she was conducting the affairs of her home, presiding at a Board Meeting, or standing by the side of her husband, she was master of the situation, doing the task ahead with a sweet dignity and poise that was remarkable. Quiet, unassuming and rather shy she has never pushed herself forward, but has been called to many responsible positions. She has never sought greatness, but greatness has come to her. As she has served, each one of her experiences had enriched her background and understanding. She comes to the General Board well seasoned in wisdom and vision, and with a humility that reassures her heart that the Lord never asks us to do anything, but what He spreads a mantle of inspiration around us, that we may be able to accomplish the task He requires of us.
MRS.