[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Counselor Kate]

By Counselor Kate M. Barker HE Lord, through the Prophet Haggai, rebuked His people for their neglect of the temple at Jerusalem.
Because of their negligence they had lost the blessing of the Spirit of the Lord. But after the people had been stirred to a new loyalty and devotion, and the temple had been rebuilt, having the best they had to offer put into it, the Lord spoke again, saying: "I am with you." He knew that the care they took of the places of worship was indicative of the depth of their love of the Gospel. In partaking of the Sacrament we have a glorious privilege of atuning our spirits with the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. Our spirits are sensitive to physical surroundings, and should not be disturbed by lack of care in the physical aspect of the Sacrament Service. I wonder if, as a Relief Society organization, we could not cooperate with our Bishops by taking the responsibility of having the Sacrament cloth freshly washed and ironed for every service! Our Father in Heaven expects us to profit by the light He has given us, and in this day we know about germs. We could help set the standard in our Wards that the Sacrament glasses be sterilized after each service, so that when we partake of the Sacrament we will not be wondering if the glasses are sanitary—that in passing the Sacrament to another we are all careful about our hands, gloves, coat sleeves, that we do not do anything which detracts our neighbor's mind from the sacredness of the ordinance. We are the mothers of the boys who pass the Sacrament. So much of what the boy feels is of most importance depends upon what the parent feels is important.
When our children graduate from school we, by our very attitude of pride, by our attendance, by our interest in their personal appearance, make them feel how proud we are, and the importance of the occasion. Can we not see what we are doing to our boys when we pay less attention when they are asked to pass the Sacrament? Let us go to Church with them, make them feel that we are so proud of the honor which has come to them. Let us impress upon them the sacredness of the Sacrament, that this is a very special occasion, that they must take particular care of their personal appearance, that hands and nails must be immaculate, that this is one of the greatest services they will ever have the opportunity to perform.
Could we not have a white shirt for them, which we take care to have freshly laundered, and see that every boy has such a shirt? 

  THE COVENANTS OF THE DAY