[Vol27 | January 1940 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Index]
1928  had  been  copied,  indexed  and 
bound  in  uniform  covers.  She  had 
assembled  historical  data  covering 
the  period  between  the  Nauvoo 
meetings  and  the  incorporation  of 
the  General  Board  in  1892.  She  also 
left  a  complete  file  of  bound  volumes 
of  stake  reports  from  the  year  1913, 
which  is  a  useful  reference  of  statis- 
tical and  financial  data  of  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  the  Church, 
Mrs.  Lyman  also  arranged  a  com- 
prehensive "Ward  Record  Book". 
This  book  automatically  system- 
atized and  standardized  all  the  me- 
chanical workings  of  the  ward  organ- 
izations; a  similar  book  for  stake  rec- 
ords Mrs.  Lyman  also  compiled. 
These  books  stand  as  a  permanent 
file  for  reference  in  the  wards  and 
stakes.  She  was  also  chairman  of  the 
committee  which  under  the  Gen- 
eral Board  published    the    "Relief 
Society  Handbook".  Similar  record 
books  and  handbook  were  pre- 
pared and  adopted  in  all  the  Euro- 
pean missions  during  Mrs.  Lyman's 
term  of  office  there.  She  also  held 
the  position  of  Assistant  Business 
Manager  of  the  "Relief  Society  Mag- 
azine" from  1914  to  the  present 
time. 
During  the  World  War,  when  the 
Red  Cross  under  the  Government 
was  assigned  care  of  the  families  of 
soldiers  and  sailors  under  the  Home 
Service  Division,  training  centers 
were  established  at  the  various  Di- 
vision Headquarters  for  the  purpose 
of  training  women  to  carry  on  the 
task.  Under  the  direction  of  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  and  the  Gen- 
eral Board,  Mrs.  Lyman  went  to 
Denver  with  a  group  of  Relief  So- 
ciety workers  to  receive  training  in 
order  to  be  eligible  to  direct  the 
work  for  the  families  of  Latter-day 
Saint  soldiers  and  sailors.  She  saw 
the  excellent  results  of  the  trained 
social  worker  and  how  helpful  similar 
methods  would  be  in  the  charity 
disbursements  of  the  Relief  Society. 
From  that  time,  she  has  made  social 
welfare  her  major  activity  and  has 
given  years  of  study  and  reading  to 
the  subject.  She  has  taken  special 
courses  in  sociology  and  psychology 
in  addition  to  the  Red  Cross  Home 
Service  Course  and  a  course  in  field 
work  under  the  direction  of  the  Den- 
ver City  and  County  Charity  Office 
for  the  purpose  of  introducing  "case 
work"  for  family  relief  in  the  Relief 
Society.  She  has  taught  large  classes 
of  Relief  Society  women  for  many 
years  for  the  purpose  of  improv- 
ing their  methods.  She  has  at- 
tended a  number  of  sessions  of  the 
National  Conference  of  Social  Work