the Pioneers as they journeyed across the plains. Travel-stained wagons, ox teams driven by slatbonneted women, stern-faced men walking with guns across their arms, children sticking their heads out of holes in the dilapidated weather-rotted covers. Black camp-kettles and other fire-marked cooking utensils, and bales of sage brush for the camp fire, hung under these wagons, bobbing drearily as the oxen swung and plodded along. Second. Next in line of march and history were good horse teams driven by stalwart men, still with guns in evidence, but the hay racks on their wagons were fairly smothered with the products of the country so lately a wilderness. Sheaves of grain, a variety of vegetables, boughs laden with fruit, mostly wild; and where the varieties were not in season, they had been more or less cleverly imitated. Third. The Ecclesiastical Authorities in the only carriage the town afforded. Men selected for their probity, vision and wisdom; whose devotion to God and their fellow men had been tried and found true. Men who, guns in hand, had walked every step of the way across the trackless plains; and now when the frost of years was on their heads, still blessing these outcasts from civilization, with the faith, sweetness and wisdom garnered in the years of strenuous hardship. Loved and respected by every honest soul, friends and fathers of the people. Fourth. The Civil Authorities, every man of them with a small U. S. Flag in his hat. Fifth. On horse back rode twenty-four young ladies in white, a bevy of beauty and the pick of the town; while a like number _ of young men in their newest homespun, well mounted, rode at the right of the young ladies, representing UTAH, and the honored day. Sixth. On a small, but highly ornate float, standing, rode the Goddess of Liberty; very appropriately placed, following Utah and not yet having overtaken her. She who posed on this float was a very tall woman artistically draped in sheets, and grasping for safety as well as dramatic effect, a firmly morticed flag staff, while over her head, adorned with long, bright curls, floated the glorious Stars and Stripes. Seventh. On a hayracked wagon made soft with new mown grass, and drawn by an especially reliable team, rode many little girls dressed in all colors of the rainbow, proclaiming by the lettering on their. Paper-gilt sashes, that they were the states of the Union. Not yet had Utah begun to blossom as the rose. True, there were a few spice pinks, sweet-peas and hair-bells growing among the potatoes and beans of necessity and those who owned them reaped a bounteous harvest on this day; nor were the garden blooms of wild 
 mustard scorned, when more desirable flowers gave out. A wreath of varied blooms, tied on a willow wand in compact mass encircled each proud and happy young head. Eighth. The brass band, which discoursed thrilling sounds as they marched, to the utter bliss of the young and uncritical. Ninth. In this commemorative parade were represented the arts, trades, and industries as apart from agriculture, etc. It took several wagons with cloth-covered platforms to display their wares, which were by no means either scant or crude. It was passing strange how many real artisans and highly skilled mechanics there were in this little, new, pioneer town. It will be remembered in the building of our beautiful Temple that, what every person needed, either for architectural, constructive or decorative work, was found among our own people. A building that in all ages will be famed for being perfect in every line. ~ Tenth. Another commodious hay rack, made soft with grass, and with ropes drawn from stake to stake to insure none of the occupants would leak out, in which were all the small fry not otherwise disposed of, rode grandly beneath a banner: '""Utah's Best Crop." Eleventh. The string band still going strong, doing all they could to swell the general hilarity, and make the "'welkin ring." Twelfth. A party of self-invited Indians who joined in the procession without having the least idea what it was about, and walked or rode as they listed; and occasionally when the bands were not playing they broke into a weird, monotonous tune, beating time on their ribs with their elbows,—"Hum nuye, hum numye," which they half chanted and half grunted, with great satisfaction to themselves, at least., Thirteenth. A surpise section of Antiques and Horribles, prepared in secret. Some of the living statuary very closely resembled prominent people of the town, and were greeted with great hilarity, even by those caricatured. On the front seat of this display, driving the mule team sat the most austere and dignified woman of the settlement, a Sister Bradley. She had refused absolutely to have anything to do with the parade, but would be at the bowery, she said, later. Everybody laughed to see her sitting there; and blacking her face and covering her long hair with a close fitting cap had not disguised her from prompt recognition. There was no mistaking the sharp features, the gaunt, bony figure, or her second best dress,—it was as well known as her rather remarkable face. Well! Well! Wonders would never cease. Fourteenth. A whole mob of small boys, whose attendants tried in vain to-keep in line of march, proudly waved a home-made banner which demanded that the town should pick from their CELEBRATING THE TIVENTY-FOURTH OF JULY 343 ranks the "Next President,' but not stating president of what? Lifteenth. The tin band, who had to be suppressed occasionally. Sixteenth. Citizens in their own wagons, half-a-dozen of them, and a long decorous marching brigade 'of solid citizens on foot; and boys, and dogs, and what-not, brought up the rear. Seventeenth. The Marshal of the day, resplendent in the uniform of the Utah Militia, black and orange. His widebrimmed hat caught up on one side with a silver buckle, a bald eagle, holding in its clutch a magnificent plume, that, but for its black color, would have done credit to Henry of Navarre. His long sword and deep fringed scarlet sash were impressive. He rode up and down the line directing the route of the procession, and when not otherwise engaged, dashed gallantly its entire length, getting some fancy curvetting and dance steps out of his powerful and well trained horse. He was attended by two very small boys on diminu-- tive donkeys, sashed with red strings, hats cocked up with rooster feathers, and carrying wooden swords so long they almost dragged the ground. This body guard was furnished by the antiques and horribles, and made themselves as near a nuisance as possible. It has cost too much in time and energy to prepare the various features of the parade not to prolong it till the last drop of joy had been abstracted; so they went up one street and down another till the town had been pretty well covered. Passing a small prim house on the outskirts of the village a thing happened not down on the program. Out of the door came a whirlwind in skirts, and just as the antiques and horribles got opposite the gate, too late to cover, duck or flee, the driver saw the approach, attempted to get out of the wagon, but hampered by the skirts of the costume, fell out. Before he could struggle to his feet he was pounced upon by the feminine whirlwind, disrobed none too gently, soundly boxed on the paws and left in the middle of the street (and his fellow townsmen) in rather abbreviated underwear, and was at once recognized as the young son of Sister Bradley. No one had realized how very much they looked alike until this contretemps. Of course, everybody enjoyed the joke but the lad himself. He would have followed his mother into the house but she had locked the door and he disappeared around the corner of the wood-pile, and was seen no more that day,—not even at the party in the evening. The procession finally reached the bowery and in an orderly manner went to pieces. It was delightful to get into the deep, cool, green shade of this hand-made grove, open on all sides and _ten feet in the clear. Constructed against the meeting house, it turned that spacious rodm into a cool cave of a place, dim and 
 restful. The bowery was roomy. The earth had been leveled, sprinkled, rolled hard and spread with clean straw. The roof was upheld by quaking asp poles laid from crotch to crotch of the lower limbs of tree trunks, selected, trimmed up and set firmly in the earth to meet specifications. On this criss-cross of tough and slender poles, were piled leafy boughs, mostly cottonwood, in many tiers, till the desired depth was achieved. Tables were made by laying boards on trestles extending down either side of the thirty-foot room; and acceptable seats were like the tables, only on lower trestles and of one board. The clean boards of the table were quickly covered with newspapers, and energetic women very soon had the hampers, squawbaskets, dishpans and other receptacles emptied of their loads of good things and the table was a cheering sight. The whole town dined together, except Sister Bradley and her son, who were sent for but declined to come. The feast was ample and excellent. The Bishop offered an impressive though simple "Grace Before Meat," and each full and grateful heart replied, "Amen." Never were there fruits and vegetables of such fine flavor and quality as those grown from the virgin soil of Utah! 'The children sat on the clean straw when table room gave out, and were waited upon by a bevy of young girls. The feast was prolonged and somewhat noisy, but there is a time for everything, and the noise itself was part of the hilarious aftermath of the splendid parade. The Indians were the last to leave the festive board. It was not exactly compulsory, but a dishpan full of food was offered to them if they would go outside the bowery to eat it, and they accepted the suggestion. Then the program was rendered. First. Reading of the Declaration of Independence." Second. Singing of the "Star Spangled Banner," by a wonderful voice trained by great masters in the old world, to finally lift its golden cadences in freedom's songs, among the hills and vales of Zion. Third. Declamation of: "The Last Speech of Chief Logan," an Indian, and a great American; as set forth in McGuffy's fifth reader, in use in the schools of that time. Fourth. Comic Song: "Squaw-killer Harney's on the Road," happily now forgotten. Fifth. A heart moving description of the journey and arrival of the first Pioneers into the valleys, preceded by a brief sketch of the incidents leading up to their exodus from the states. Sixth. Congregational singing: "For the Strength of the Hills we Bless Thee." Seventh. Followed by "Early Settlers' whose stories never should have been forgotten. CELEBRATING THE TWENTY-FOURTH OF JULY 345 Eighth. Brass Band., Ninth. Tin Band, quickly suppressed because it made the babies cry. Tenth. Home-made jokes, local hits and border songs, interspersed by music by the bands. The Bishop then made a few impromptu remarks, in appreciation of those who had labored to make the day so enjoyable, commending various features of the parade, banquet and program and said it was proper now to give the time to the "Sports and Games" which he understood were to follow the program and precede the dance. Arapine, chief of the Indians present, sat just in front of the improvised speakers stand, listening intently; and perceiving that the assemblage was about to be dismissed, called an Indian boy to him and whispered in his ear, and the young Mercury sped away., When the Bishop had finished, Arapine arose and asked if he might make a small talk in the few English words he knew. A ripple of amused derision passed over the assembly, but was sternly repressed by the BisKop. "Let me not hear one disrespectful word, nor see one smile of ridicule."" He motioned the Indian to a place by his side, and laying his hand on the Chieftan's shoulder continued. "In this poor native's veins there flows the blood of Israel. Look at him from the tangled mass of gray hair to the buckskin moccasins! He has more claim on the promises made to the fathers than any of us. At best we have only a moiety of that royal blood, and many are but wild olive branches grafted on. Now we'll hear what he has to say. Come up and interpret where the Chief's English fails him," said the Bishop beckoning to a swarthy man, Marion Shelton, well known for his-proficiency in Indian languages. As interpreted his speech ran thus: though no doubt some fine points were lost, as well as some of its picturesque imagery for which the Indians are famous: "Listen, white brothers, to the words of Manywaters, whose head is white with the frost and snow of bitter winters. We did not come here today to eat white bread and sweet things to make our stomaches ache, but to tell you that we are also the children of the Eagles." The interpreter repeated what Arapine had said and looked at the Bishop, who stepped forward and said: "Te is telling us we are all of one blood, and I tell you that we are, and it is the blood of Israel." The Indian continued: "Manitou has hidden his face from his red children for many snows." He paused and a contortion of pain crossed. Over his 
 face. "White men have been the tomahawk of Manitou and the Indians have been slain and driven like dust in big wind," and his features were eloquent with despair. "We brave! We kill, we rob, no use! Too many Mericats." (Americans.) "Indian not know Mericat from "Mormon." I took my warriors and went to kill small wagon company, (he help up five fingers,) that was going farther into the country, take more Indian land. They camp good place to kill. We creep up in brush. All ready when morning star should rise. White Chief no turn out cattle. Women and children walk in fear. Men stand close, talk low, look about, no see us!" He glanced over the company indicating the Goddess of Liberty but shaking his head, he talked' direct to the interpreter who translated: "They all went into their wagons and pretty soon came out in white clothes something like the Goddess of Liberty, and sang a great song to Manitou; stood in a circle and lifted sad faces, and with one voice spoke mighty things to Him." Then the Bishop interposed again. "Brethren and sisters, what this Indian is telling you is true. That was a party of colonists, who, in disobedience of counsel, had gone out ahead jof the main body of the company, to grab the best land, and well might they supplicate God in fear, for they had forfeited protection." Arapine with a note of approval of the Bishop's remarks resumed: "We listened, not much understand; but we knew they talked to Manitou, and our stout hearts flowed like water. Then came the shadows of Redmen, our fathers, and formed into a guard tbove their heads; and each warrior held a drawn bow and 'arrow, and the arrows were aimed at us who skulked in the brush," and he drew back his arm as if drawing an arrow to the -head. "We wormed away as the snake travels. We met at our — camp in the mountains. We knew we must no more kill 'Mormons.' We want to be friends and brothers. If my young men go wild and kill a beef when they are hungry, don't shoot. We will kill your enemies—" the interpreter paused and looked at the Bishop, who came hastily forward and again placed his hand on the shoulder of the old chief: "No! No! You must not kill anyone. Manitou will take vengeance. We do not kill our enemies. "You must not kill anyone! Mericat, 'Mormon,' nor. Redmen! Arapine, do you understand?" he said sternly. The Indian nodded several times but with rather a puzzled face. Had the interpreter repeat it twice and then said a little doubtfully: "All right." His messenger had now returned with a large willow cage. CELEBRATING THE TWENTY-FOURTH OF JULY 347 holding a young but full grown eagle. He took the cage and hela it up for all to see. "i "This bird we have taught the Indian language. We have told it over and over the story I have told you. We have promised it liberty if it will go to Manitou and tell him we will kill no more 'Mormons'—" Again the Bishop intervened.; "Tell Manitou you and your braves will kill no more people at all! No Mericats, no 'Mormons,' no Indians!" "Not Navajo?" he naively inquired. "Not any one," said the Bishop firmly. It looked for a moment like Arapine might rebel. Then his black eyes of fierce refusal fell before the commanding, yet persuasive eloquence of the Bishop's benevolent blue orbs. The Indian's form dropped as if all the zest of spice had suddenly been abstracted from life, but he said: "All right," repeating the words of the Bishop to the eagle as the interpreter translated it; and continued his remarks. "If this eagle goes straight up, we will know that he has gone to Manitou to tell him all our hearts and has kept faith with - us; but if he circles round and goes to his wife and children in the rocks of the mountains, he has bought his freedom with a lie." The Chief took the cage and walked outside of the bowery, and resting it on a wagon wheel in full view of the people, opened wide the cage. The eagle looked about him with a dauntless eyes, with no motion of fear or even of eagerness, he stepped outside of the cage, spread his broad wings, and mounted into the clear atmosphere. One wide slow circle he took toward the mountains, but with a winding and recurvate flight came back till he was directly over the bowery. Watched with breathless eagerness by all, both red and white, he mounted in ever lessening circles into the celestial blue of the skies.. When the last speck had vanished a mighty shout went up from the Indians, and some of the whites, carried away by the tense drama of the scene shouted with them. Again the Bishop had a word to say: "This thing not on the program is the greatest event that has happened today. These Indians have had a vision. The Spirit of God has visited them, to the saving of life and the beginning of their redemption. They have accepted us as blood brothers, which we are, all being of the house of Israel. This is the most potent treaty that could be made with the Indians. It will spread to all the tribes. The day of savage warfare with them is about over. You are taking part in a history making incident. Let no ridicule be made of their manner of approaching God. They will learn. From this time forth let no one among our people shed the blood of an Indian. Those who do it will suffer for it, and the nations and people who do it will not escape. I want you all to shake hands with these lowly relatives of ours who 
 have come to proffer us their friendship. Do not repulse them, but come with me and shake them by the hand to ratify the covenant we have made with them, and remember it must not be broken." The Bishop went first, and the people followed him, and the Indians were delighted. They were asked to join in the athletic games that came later, and showed the white men some amazing feats of strength and dexterity. Small children were tired and many of them asleep. Babies had cried a good deal, but nevertheless were made welcome. Mothers now began to gather their broods preparatory to trailing homeward so the meeting was decorously dismissed. Each family endeavored to collect their individual belongings, and return to their domiciles, for there were cows to be milked, chickens to feed and other homely duties to be performed. At "early candle light" those who wished to dance reassembled and to the music of accordians and violins, danced the becoming old fashioned dances. Many a sweet romance had its beginning in © _those dim, rustic ballrooms. Dances closed promptly at midnight in those far off days, as there was much labor to be performed, and every individual in those 'primitive communities belonged to the "working class." The villages were small enough that all were of one class, one family as it were, though of many nationalities. Every man was a friend and brother, every woman was a friend and sister. They each and all had just one motive in being there, one object to attain, one faith, one God. Has there ever been anything like it on the earth before? Will there ever be anything like it again? Recently a prize was won by a young woman who wrote a play called "Chicago. " This play has been one of the most successful plays presented in New York during the present season. One writer in telling of the achievement remarks, "and the author is a young woman of twenty-four