HARRIET ANN PYPER 331 it was far enough along for the family to celebrate Christmas by moving into it. This was done with great rejoicing, the adobe cottage appearing palatial after the long period in the covered wagon. As the family ate their simple dinner in grand style, warmed by a crackling fire on the hearth, they laughed at the fury of the wind howling without. Then suddenly there came a gust fiercer than the others, and crash! Crack!—the chimney falling down i in confusion, part of the adobes outside, part inside HARRIET GRACE PYPER, at the age of seventeen. This dress ° was sptin and woven by herself. The dwelling. So again in the cold and sleet and snow, they had to house themselves in the wagon-box. It was not long, however, before they were really settled in the new home, and on April 1, 1851, Sister Grace gave birth to a frail baby girl who was christened Harriet Ann, and soon was called by the name of Etta. She was the first white girl born in Nephi, though a boy baby had shortly preceded her. Brother and Sister Grace had a hard time keeping the baby alive, but though never strong, Harriet Ann succeeded in growing toa fairly normal pioneer girlhood. Well. Does she remember the 
 adobe cottage with its one room, and the many interesting activities that went on there. Soap-making, candle-moulding, porkquartering, casing being filled with wholesome home-made sausage, the milk that was milked into a great brass coffee-pot, being strained and carried out to the cellar that looked like a chicken coop to Etta when she was very small—wild currants being preserved with molasses—gay gatherings of the older boys and girls, with speaking of pieces, jests, dancing and refreshments. Yes, one room was enough for all that besides the eating and sleeping, and washing and ironing and spinning and weaving. One of the vivid memories of Sister Pyper's childhood is of a time when her mother went to Salt Lake with her father, leaving Etta, three, in the charge of her older sister, who was still a child herself. Big sister was under instructions to keep the white bread which was always a luxury in those days, out of reach, and to eat the usual every-day ration of corn-bread. Harriet, though, was sick and tired of corn-bread, and was determined to have the white. Big sister, wishing to be faithful to her duties as she saw them, told Harriet it was a case of corn-bread or nothing at all. Etta, with a determined little mind of her own chose nothing at all. It was a long way to Salt Lake in those days, when one traveled with team and wagon, but of course father and mother did get back eventually, and Etta still remembers her mother cutting slice after slice of luxurious white bread for her, and spreading it thick with butter and treacle. Yes, her mother was a good cook. She could concoct something savory even when raw materials were very sparse. Those 'lovely pies made of native currants, for instance, that Etta helped to pick. How long it took to get enough of them, but how delicious those pies, coming out of the oven, steaming hot; and of course if mother was willing to make the pies, Etta must be cheerful about picking the currants. There -were those' tasty vinegar pies also, made long before lemons were seen in the valley. And custard pies! How proud Etta had been of that custard pie that. Her mama had given her to carry to the party in the school-house. There were no shoes for the little girl just then, but at least she did not have to go bare-foot; she went in her "stocking-feet." After a while she grew tired and she began to wonder about the refreshments. What had become of her custard pie? Where had they put it? She looked all around the tables where the food was laid out, but mother's pie was not in sight. Then she peeped at the table that was spread on the stage for the musicians. Choice bits were always placed before them as a token of appreciation for their labors. And there, sure enough, was her custard pie ornamenting the center of the table. One memory that colors the background of all Sister Pyper's childhood recollections is the fear that was constantly felt of the HARRIET ANN PYPER 333 Indians. The Nephi colonists were troubled from the beginning by the Red Men. The first group of houses was constructed as a fort, each building facing inside the square, the windows scarcely more than peep-holes and built much as in the castles of old. A mud wall, very thick and eight or more feet in height surrounded the fort at some distance. It seemed to little Etta that about four square blocks were enclosed by this fortification. There were in it only two openings, these being situated on opposite sides of the wall, They were big, heavy gates of timber which were guarded night and day. In the years sixty-five, sixty-six and sixty-seven, the Indians were particularly dreaded. Black Hawk was the worst leader, molesting the people of all the southern settlements. Much of the time, the people were prisoners within the mud-wall enclosure. 'They were warned against ever getting farther away from the fort than two blocks. As it turned out, the great danger was not to those in settlements, but to lonely prairies. Off in Nephi Canyon, for instance, people were killed by the Indians, but open attacks were not made on the fort, though there was always the fear of one being under way. Every able-bodied man in Nephi was trained for service, and sentinels watched the gates and walls every hour of the day and night. One night when all the inhabintants were ordered under cover of darkness, a woman who was ill and suffering from a bad stomach, got up, lighted her lamp, made a fire and brewed herself a cup of tea. She explained the next day that if she was going to die anyway, she might as well have a few comfortable moments first. Another woman, driven to the point of desperation by a colicky baby, got up and went out-doors with it, walking for several hours, outside the fort. The next day, an Indian woman who was friendly with the settlers told this mother that she had trailed her all the way to protect her, as Indians were lurking around that night. Sister Pyper herself recalls that she and other children sometimes got outside the enclosure by swimming down the creek when full of water, or creeping down its hoe under the wall, when there was no water. School days, in the early period of the history of Nephi, were rather picturesque. The first school of all was held in the little one-room adobe house of Sister Bailey! Later the children went to school to a Brother Midgley who loved to expatiate on the glories of Jackson county in the latter days. He would say, "The streets of Jackson county will be paved with pure gold, and some of the sheets will be as large as your spelling books." There was a third school-master who had difficulty with discipline, and thought out some rather unique methods of punishment. In the Spring or Fall when the children came to school bare-footed, he would stand two culprits up in front of the class, 
 with their great toes tied together. Sometimes when his back was turned, he would hear a disturbance and turn quickly around, but not quickly enough to catch the guilty ones. It was of no use to ask who made the noise. No one would confess to it. Angrily he would pick up the broom from its corner and strike each boy in the room over the head with it. "Now-I got the right one," he would exclaim with satisfaction. Although the Grace family endured the hardships of. The frontier in those early days, they never suffered from actual hunger, nor from want of clothing. Sister Grace had been saving up clothes for years before leaving for Zion, so that she always had something on hand to make over for every necessity. Brother Grace was a good provider. His training as a shipbuilder stood him in hand in the growing colony. He could adapt his skill to anything in the line of carpentry, and so was constantly in demand. Money was a scarce commodity, but food was welcome pay enough. The first year the family had no flour except corn-meal, but after that period there was never a time when Sister Grace did not have white flour in the house, and that was an achievement that none but a right smart family could boast of in those days. For that was when people depended for their living on what they raised themselves. Their own wheat for flour, their own cane for. Molasses, and their own garden truck. There was little opportunity for idleness to prove the Devil's workshop in those days. Mere weeding alone was an endless part of the Summer's work. Even today, the city-bred person can scarcely comprehend how much of a farmer's strength, time, patience, and money go into keeping the garden and fields weeded. One day Etta was engaged with this very task. She was still a frail child and her mother felt a good deal of anxiety about her, bending and pulling for long hours in the hot sun. A young girl had been hired to come and spin that day but Sister Grace asked her to go out and help Etta, saying that she would give her the same money for pulling weeds as for spinning. As they worked. On in the heat Etta sighed, "'Oh dear, if it hadn't been for Adam, we wouldn't have to pull all these weeds." "Why?" asked her companion, surprised. "Because Adam sinned and cursed the earth with weeds, and now see how we have to work." Another of the tedious all-day tasks was stripping cane. The 'children would hold a stout stick in both hands, and knock off all the leaves from each successive plant, leaving the stalks naked of foliage, ready to be cut down by the men who came along with their sickles. All the cane was then loaded and hauled to the mill. Those were honest days and the Saints felt no anxiety about receiving the full quantity of molasses that their cane yielded. Early the girls of that period learned to spin and weave and HARRIET ANN PYPER. 335 sew, to milk cows and to churn. Sister Grace, being a tailoress, was a good teacher for her girls, and was able to make suits for her husband and son that anyone might have envied. She made the suits of jeans cloth. This of course was homespun, and was heavier than ordinary fabric for men's clothes. Of scraps of this same material, Sister Grace made shoes for her family. Of course, the children went barefoot, when the weather permitted; but in Fall and Winter they needed shoes. So mother cut the jeans cloth to fit the feet of her various children, and then carried them to the shoemaker, who provided soles and toe-caps. The family were very proud of their foot-wear in blue, gray or brown. Perhaps it even matched the suit or dress. As the years passed, the little settlement of Nephi grew into quite a town. People left the fort and houses began to appear in all directions. The fruit-trees that had been planted were bearing, and dried apples, plums, peaches, and pears could be added to the Winter menu. After a while there came such luxuries as plum preserves made with real white sugar. Different industries were establishd, one of the first being a nail-mill, with Brother Grace as one of the prime promoters. Brother Grace built a big four-room abode house on Main Street, and in the middle of one cold Winter, the family's possessicons were loaded upon a sleigh, that was drawn proudly by oxen through the principal thoroughfare of Nephi. Young people liked being in crowds then as much as today. Merry parties of all kinds were enjoyed, community gatherings, corn-shuckings, quilting bees, potato-planting parties, dances, hayrack and sleighing evenings. Often enough a group of young folks could be seen, strung all the way across the sidewalk, hand in hand, going off to some merry-making. "Petting" was not altogether unknown, and when one of Sister Grace's daughters reported to mother that a certain young man had put his arms around the waist of another daughter, Sister Grace had a little talk with the young man and asked him if he would please tell her confidentially if he saw anyone putting his arms around her girl. Alexander Pyper was the young man lucky enough to win the consent of Harriet Ann. About the time they were engaged, Sister Grace had put the washing out on the fence, when a fierce wind came up suddenly and blew the clothes helter-skelter in all directions. Alexander was the hero who came on the scene in the nick of time and gathered up the clothes, from everywhere. "Why, what a nice young man," said Sister Grace. "You shall have one of my daughters for this." The two young people journeyed to Salt Lake and were married in the Endowment House in 1872. In the course of a few years, Sister Pyper had given birth to three fine baby boys. They had been very happy years, but all at once, trouble appeared 336 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on the horizon, and loomed bigger and bigger. Brother Pyper was up in the mountains logging when suddenly a strange, brooding feeling came over him. He tried to shake it off, but without success. So convinced was he that it was a premonition of evil, that he tramped all the weary miles to his home. To his wife, his coming was the answer to a prayer, The baby was very ill from blood-poison, and while its life could not be saved, at least the two parents were together to sustain each other in this terrible trial. Within two weeks the parents were bereft of both of their other children. A year later another baby was welcome to their home, a girl this time and later another boy, who only lived to be twelve. Altogether this little Pioneer woman who had never been strong, bore nine children, five of whom, four girls and one boy grew up. A year after the twelve-year old boy died, the father, too, was long bed-ridden with. Cancer, before dying and leaving his widow with five young children to support and care for. For some years the family lived in Nephi, Sister Pyper boarding the school teachers, and others who had no homes. Then they moved to Salt Lake, where she continued with a boardinghouse until her health broke. By this time the children were able to care for themselves and help the good mother who had had their interest so much at heart. Sister Pyper makes her home from time to time with different ones of her four daughters and one son, Mrs. Marietta Jenkins, Mrs. Alda Pexton, Mrs. Kate Wooley, Mrs. Lavelle Wallace, and Allan G. Pyper. She has the satisfaction of seeing her children living right, taking their part bravely in life, and she herself is welcomed wherever she goes with her sweet and valiant spirit. Love the Lord By Weston N. Nordgran Love the Lord, my younger brother, Value high, His Holy Word. Never speak unkind to others— Do not get your anger stirred. Love the Lord, and do His bidding, Though you miss the earthly gain; Preach and teach, and go on living, That the Gospel plan may reign! THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS  c  Magazine  a Vol. XIV JULY, 1927 No. EDITORIAL