EDITORIAL c~ ? VOL. Return of Spring While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease (Genesis 8:22). HE return of spring is at once a promise and the fulfillment of a promise. After the dark night of winter, after the time of waiting, the earth turns again to sunshine and song and the splendor of leaves and blossoms. There is solace and great joy in this orderly return of the season of brightness and beauty. There comes a resurgence of hope and the deep satisfaction of feeling once more that all is right in the world in God's world. There can be no denying the infinite possibilities of the earth, the unbounded potentialities of man who has been given dominion over it. Faith seems to assume greater strength in spring, and all that is done seems to be measured with the spirit of promise. Now in the wide fields, the white gulls follow the plow as they have followed it every spring in these valleys for nearly a hundred years. Still the storage of snow has been made in the mountains and the streams bring again their living water. It is the feeling of sameness, of order, of the working of eternal law, that gives a sense of security. Here is the earth with its ancient promise of spring fulfilled. Here are the furrows ready to receive the seed. Here are the orchard trees with Page 316 their blossoms falling and the green fruit taking form on the boughs. The pasture grass grows tall and bends to the wind. Young lambs, white against the brush, trail to the sunlit hillside. All is well with the world. Only the dominion of man is weak and confused ? weak and confused because his aims are not high enough, because his field of service is not wide enough, because his heart is not kind enough, and his courage too often a latent thing. Confusion and despair have not come because the earth is inadequate, nor because we have not been given the tools for turning all its infinite possibilities to our good. Our Father has fulfilled his promise. Seed time has returned, and with it the opportunity for a new planting and the reaping of a better harvest. To the Latter-day Saints, always aware of both their heritage and their destiny, the return of spring has a special meaning. Our pioneer ancestors, living close to the earth, learned patience, industry, and thrift. Living close to the Heavenly Father, they learned responsibility and brotherhood. They displayed through their living of the gospel the union of many tongues and many people achieving their ideals by devotion to a common cause 317 the temporal and spiritual salvation of the people.
The return of spring in this troubled world comes as a new opportunity, another chance for
achievement. "For lo, the winter is passed . . . . The flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come" (Song of Solomon, 2:11-12).