[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 387 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
Qa Sa (wr, \ FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Nineteenth Ward Singing Mothers Present I Music for Many Occasions Front row: At the left, Judy Bennett, accompanist; fourth from the left, Marie Armitage, President, Pocatello Nineteenth Ward Relief Society; at the right, Hazel Christiansen, chorister. Second row: Fourth from the left, Joyce Hanks, social science class leader; sixth from the left, Alice Ingebretsen, work meeting leader; at the right, Eleda Stacy, Work Counselor. Third row: At the left, Irene Yarger, Secretary-Treasurer, Pocatello Nineteenth Ward Relief Society; Erma Thornock, Education Counselor; fifth from the left, Hazel Bolingbroke, visiting teacher message leader; at the right, Marilyn Armstrong, theology class leader. Emily S. Romish, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Pocatello Nineteenth Ward have been most outstanding in their chorus activities. They have an enrollment of eighty-three. Recently, when I attended the literature meeting, there were fifty-three sisters in attendance. They have two nurseries, with fifteen or more in each section. The Singing Mothers practice each Thursday from nine to ten in the morning, at which time Relief Society meetings start. They sing for sacrament meetings and special programs and present concerts regularly for the two rest homes in Pocatello. They have also presented music for meetings in other wards, and for funerals. They also sing each year for the stake preparation meeting. All the members of the presidency are Singing Mothers, as are most of the class leaders." Toe a 


 San Diego East Stake (California) Magazine Representatives Honored at a Luncheon February 4, 1966 Left to right: Annie Tenney, stake Magazine representative; Helen Stevens, Lakeside Ward; Wilda Fowles, LaMesa Ward; Ida Brown, LaMesa Second Ward; Hannah Brown, El Cajon Third Ward; Clara Mosteller, El Cajon Second Ward; Bettey Miller, called as stake Magazine representative to replace Sister Tenney. Lydia Wilkensen, El Cajon Ward, was not present at the time the picture was taken. Reha Gale, President, San Diego East Stake Relief Society, reports: "The occasion was a luncheon honoring the ward Magazine representatives, following the leadership meeting. The theme of the luncheon was "The Magazine—Heart of Relief Society.' The tables were beautifully decorated with red hearts and roses, with the Magazine as center of each heart. "A lovely afternoon was spent with the stake board, the ward presidents, and ward Magazine representives. Each of the Magazine representatives was presented with a lovely handmade handkerchief for selling over 100 per cent subscriptions in each ward. Each sister accepted the challenge to place "The Heart of Relief Society' in each home." South Carolina Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert December 4, 1965 Elizabeth M. Perry, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society, reports: "'Approximately 100 singers participated in this concert. Our chapel was beautifully decorated with Christmas flowers. The sisters made a lovely picture with their white blouses, black skirts, and red Christmas corsages. This was our first Singing Mothers concert, with twelve out of fourteen wards and branches participating. Our sisters traveled many miles and spent many hours practicing. We were delighted with the response to this concert, and feel that it was well worth the effort. The officers of South Carolina Stake Relief Society are: President Elizabeth M. Perry, First Counselor Lottie Joyner, Second Counselor Vern Fagan, and Secretary-Treasurer Norma Grice." Glaaate Stake (California) Yuletide Festival December 17, 1965 Left to right, stake leaders: Edythe Fairbanks, Magazine representative, as "Mrs. Santa"; Florence Dalton, Work Counselor; Virgie Fischbeck, theology class leader. Edna A. Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our 'Mrs. Santa's Kitchen,' featuring 'The Best Cooks This Side of Heaven,' thrilled all those who attended the Glendale Stake Yuletide Festival. ""Members and nonmembers were delighted with displays and demonstrations of Christmas decorations. An excellent original play 'Our Gift to God,' written by Education Counselor Leah Frandsen, with the theme of Family Night, climaxed a most outstanding evening. LaCanada Ward choir furnished beautiful Christmas music. "This most successful fund-raising event was made possible by the combined efforts of the members of the stake board, in addition to the sisters in the picture: Ruth Gough, Secretary-Treasurer; Nancy Scott, work meeting leader; Joyce Swainston, chorister; Ola Davis, organist; Jessie Schade, visiting teacher message leader; Jody Acton, social science class leader; and Barbara Moffat, literature class leader."' 


 North British Mission, Grimsby District Presidency Christmas Party November 27, 1965 Left to right: Elizabeth Hickman, President, Grimsby District Relief Society; Blanche E. Payne, Supervisor, North British Mission Relief Society; Patricia Rogers, First Counselor, Grimsby District Relief Society; Ann Eley, Secretary-Treasurer, North British Mission Relief Society; Stephanie Hill, District Secretary-Treasurer; Norma Sepp, Mission Assistant; Betty Browne, Second Counselor, Grimsby District Relief Society; Marjorie R. Jenner, Second Counselor, North British Mission Relief Society. Alice A. Hughes, President of the North British Mission Relief Society, reports: 'The Grimsby District Relief Society Presidency held a Christmas party, to which all the sisters of the district, and their husbands, were invited. This was one of the first large social gatherings to be held in the beautiful new Scunthorpe chapel. Many investigators and inactive members participated. It was a spiritual and enjoyable evening. There were party games, old-time and modern dancing. After supper, each sister received a small gift presented by 'Father Christmas' from his sleigh. The evening's entertainment ended with three short plays presented by a local dramatic society." Central British Mission, Worcester District Relief Society Song Festival February 15, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right, beginning second from the left: Olive Corbin, Second Counselor; Audrey Wharrad, First Counselor; Gwendalyn Smart, chorister; Edna Byrne, President. Back row, standing, at the left: Gillian Brown-Lee, Secretary-Treasurer. Eileen Dunyon, Supervisor, Central British Mission Relief Society, reports: '"'All the sisters wore colorful 'old-time' costumes, as they presented a beautiful song festival with 'Testimonies of Joy,' as the theme for the occasion. The composers and authors of Church music and words were brought back to life by the enactment of one outstanding feature taken from each individual life. At the close of the festival, two young flower girls handed a bouquet to the chorister, and a Victorian Posy to the pianist, and every sister in the hall was presented with a spray." Provo Stake (Utah) Magazine Representatives Honored at Leadership Meeting January 21, 1966 Front row, left to right: Deseret Bullock, stake Magazine representative; Kathrine Smith, Seventh Ward representative; Verena Decker, President, Seventh Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right, Magazine representatives: Bonnie Wright, Sixteenth Ward; Viola Henderson, Fifth Ward; Fanny Harrison, First Ward; Elsie Moffitt, Manavu Ward; Orrissia Liddiard, Tenth Ward. Jane M. Call, President, Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Provo Stake was organized in February 1938. Since that time the Provo Stake Relief Society has been on the Magazine Honor Roll every year except one. This year the stake Relief Society offered a lovely floral arrangement to the ward which could get the most new subscriptions to the Magazine, from October 1965 to January 1966. The floral arrangement was made at a leadership meeting in the work department and displayed for all the sisters to see. "On January 21, 1966, at leadership meeting, all of the Magazine representatives were honored for their outstanding work. Due to the drive, there was a total of 154 new subscriptions to the Magazine. The floral arrangement was presented to the Seventh Ward for having forty-three new subscriptions. Kathrine Smith, the Magazine representative for the Seventh Ward, was eighty years old in February 1966. She has recently learned how to knit, so that she will have something to do in her old age." 390 * es a oe The Man on the Street Maria A. Zickbauer @The man stood on the street. Hour after hour, the people passed by I going in different directions. The young with zest, and the old with care. Some aspired laboriously to the heights—others rushed along carefree. He spoke to each with outstretched hand, he displayed the precious gift to the quick glances of the people, to whom he offered the small valuable, with a smile on his face. Most of them had hardly time to glance at him or at his offer. All were very much in a hurry to arrive some place; many threw him halting and despondent looks. Every once in awhile one would come to stop; perhaps, only in order to recover his breath, and to risk a cautious glimpse. Several asked the price. One—where one could buy this wonderful work. It was a small watch, in extraordinarily fine setting. It appeared to be made from choice material. The answer was always the same: "It is a present for you— it cannot be bought. Take it and guard it carefully." Distrust was predominant. Yes, even malicious accusations. Evening came, and the man still had his gift—which no one was willing to accept. 392 : I was also on a street and very much like the others. I was in a hurry, _despondent and restless. Hunting for happiness; searching for peace. I was also accosted by a quiet voice and I glanced at the outstretched hand, but I was not conscious of the present. A friendly smile in the eyes "appeared to pierce my searching heart. Where had I known this singular feeling. Where had I heard this voice before? "Purchase gold from me for nothing!" Perhaps I did not want to decline or offend that friendly smile, but before I knew what had transpired, the precious gift was in my hands. My fearful questions '""Where and how can I hide it with care?' "Place it in thy heart." Then I was alone, but not really alone! Never again! Soon I was to experience the manner of the gold that I had obtained I through obedience. It was and is a new light in my eyes, a sweet melody to _ my ear, knowledge and wisdom to my thoughts. Joy and peace to my heart; health to my body, the precious decoration to the children of God—the Good News. I recognized the giver—the Great Master and knew that he was the goal of my constant search and yearning. Praise be to his love! Thanks to the man on the street. TO MOTHER Leone O. Jacobs I love you, Mother dear, more than I have before, Now that I am older, more mature. I see your noble character in clearer light today, The more, sad truth, since you have slipped away. You taught me faith, and all my doubts erased, You taught me work, its dignity and grace. You taught me gratitude for common things, The satisfaction willing service brings. I understand you, Mother dear, more than I have before, Traveling the selfsame road as you in days of yore. I too my progeny have reared, I know the problems and the pitfalls that you feared. Thank you, dear God, for Mother, For all she represents, And would that I might be to mine Of equal consequence.