WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HELP.

		Oh how beautiful is health
		To the weary, on the shelf.
	That is truth whoever wrote it. How often
we see sufferers of every grade, come to the
last days of life before the helping hand is
stretched out to them; when the sands of life
are nearly run out, the lying bed is, perhaps,
surrounded with sympathizing friends, good
things pour in, but the eyes of the dying can
only look, "too late!" Six months, or a year
before, had these comforts flowed in, the life
now pas ing away might, with the blessing of
God, have been renovated, the spirit now broken,
spirit might have been propped up, and invig-
orated  Blessed is the hand held out in time
to save! But it is not always in sickness that
help is needed; the man full of health requires
much more than the sick—good health is im-
perative, and Nature is peremptory in her de-
mands; sickness asks only a cooling drink for
the parched lips, a sweet, cool bed, a nicely ar-
ranged pillow and a loving friend to smoothe
it; a nurse that has tact and talent in her office,
these are nearly all the invalid requires. But
health is life and animation, health springs
from the couch throws off the wrappers, says:
I want to be clothed, I want food, I am well
again, bless the Great Physician, I am well
again! I can work, and be useful once again,
I have come down from the intermediate state.
I am again of the earth, my Mother Earth,
and I love her! Give me work I can again be
useful and sustain my family, once again see
peace and plenty within my home! Alas! in
these days, the strong man, the willing man,
the man ready to do anything to procure hon-
est bread for his young children, seeks to labor,
but day by day has to live on a "hope deferred"
till he is well nigh "sick unto death"—a diag-
ging out of existence is the lot of those who
have no helping hand with influence in it
stretched out for them. Cannot work be found
for those who loathe the "bread of idleness?
Industry and labor are always honorable, and
should be rewarded for Scripture says "the la-
borer is worthy of his hire." Bread eaten by
labor is sweet, and all know it who eat such!
Amen.
	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, June 26, 1877.


