	MOUNT PLEASANT May 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a prosperous
condition.  We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, one a business meeting the oth-
er a testimony meeting, and a good spirit
generally prevails among the sisters. We
have quite a number of poor in this place
solely dependent upon the Relief Society
for support, but we are happy to say that
through the liberality of the people we have
been able to meet every demand. Bishop
Seely has kindly told us to do all the good
that lays in our power, and when we lack
means come to him and he will help us and
in one or two cases he has already done so.
The sisters of this place are very anxious to 
carry out the instructions of President
Young in regard to storing grain. We have
somewhere about one hundred and fifty
bushels of wheat laid up and will still con-
tinue to do what we can to add more. We
feel grateful to our heavenly Father for the
knowledge given us through inspiration,
that we may be enabled through obedience
to the counsel of His servants, to escape
many of the calamities which are likely to 
come upon those who know not God and
will not obey His commandments.
	We are happy to state that the people
here have been liberal according to their
means in donating towards building the
Temple at St. George. But now that it is
finished, we are doubly blessed and privi-
leged to do all that lays in our power to-
wards the erection of one in our own county.
And when completed, where we can wor-
ship God and attend to ordinances both for
the living and the dead. Several of our
sisters, last year, took a lively interest in
the raising of silk. and their efforts proved
quite a success. We met together and
made quilts and sold, the proceeds of which
we used in purchasing the frames for a
cocoonery, which we hope at no distant day
to be able to finish Many of the people
here are showing their faith by their works
in planting out mulberry trees, and doing

[Column 2]

all in their power to carry out the counsel
of our beloved President, Sister Eliza R.
Snow.
	Our Young Men's Mutual Improvement
Association was well attended through the
winter,as also our Literary Association, and
the young of both sexes seemed to vie with
each other in doing what they could to
make their meetings both edifying and in-
teresting.
Last year our young ladies made a beauti-
ful quilt and sent it as a donation for the
St. George Temple. At present they are
engaged in the same business making one
as a commencement of their donations to-
wards the erection of the Temple at Manti.
	May the Lord bless all the Saints with
His holy spirit that they may gain wisdom,
knowledge and understanding, and an in-
crease of faith and good works.
	Our Annual Report is as follows:
	Means for the poor...............$ 126 31
	Expenditures........................	137 00
	Manti Temple.......................	41 90
	Emigration Fund..................	5 00
	Stocks on hand in Co-op store, Co-op
Tannery, Flour, etc., $53 30.
	I feel assured that you will be pleased to
see that we have done this well during the
past year.
	Our desires are to press forward and to do
the best we can, and assist in the great
work which lays before us.
	Praying God to bless you in your labors
of love and all who are interested in the
cause of Zion.
	M. F. C. MORRISON. Pres't:
