	ROUND VALLEY May 14th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Round Valley Relief Society was or-

[Column 3]

ganized with fifteen members on the 15th
of March, 1877, by Bishop Willard G.
Smith of Morgan. We were formerly con-
nected with the South Morgan Relief So-
ciety, but our worthy bishop thought it
wisdom to organize us separately, as we are
so far away from that branch and it was not
convenient to attend the meetings. We
hold semi-monthly meetings which are well
attended, and all seem to take a lively in-
terest in them. The names of the officers,
are as follows: Mrs. Martha Tonks, Presi-
dent; Mrs. Ellen Gibby, and Fanny Olpin,
Counselors; Mrs. Martha J. Tonks, Secre-
tary; Mrs. Mary E. Geary, Treasurer.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
			M. J. Tonks, Secretary.

	PAROWAN, May 21st, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place, being
desirous to have a name and interest in
your valuable paper, requests us to offer a
few items for publication. Our Society was
reorganized in 1872, Mrs. Emma S. Smith,
President, Mrs. Lovinna Dame and Mrs.
Mary A. Wimmer, Counselors. We have
eight teachers, an appraising committee,
a treasurer, secretary and assistant sec-
retary. We are trying to do good
in assisting the poor and in every
other way we can. We have donat-
ed a small amount to the Temple in St.
George, and we have made rag carpets for
the room belonging to the Society and for
the meeting house. As a community we
do not advance very fast in any respect;
but we try to keep the Kingdom of God in
view; however, we have one advantage
over some other places, and that is in the
matter of fashion; we do not spend much
time making flounces and furbelows, but if
our dresses fit well and look neat that is
sufficient; but no doubt we do not come up
to the mark in many other respects.
	This season is very backward; early in 
the spring everything was auspicious of
there being plenty of fruit, but the frost
has now blighted our hopes in that direc-
tion.
	That we may remain faithful in the cause
we have espoused is the desire of
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		EMMA S. DECKER, Secretary
		ADELAIDE M. FISH, Ass't Sec'y.


