(CONTINUED.)

	I know some say this principle belonged
to the Mosaic dispensation, and was done
away when Christ came and fulfilled the
law given to Moses. Gentlemen and ladies,
I do not so understand it; this was a law
revealed in the dispensation of the patri-
archs, and handed down to Moses, and he
was wise enough to obey it, otherwise he
would have come under condemnation, how

[Column 2]

ever strict he might have been to observe
the laws given to him to govern his own
peculiar people. Abraham as well as Moses
offered sacrifices. Why? Because God
commanded them to do so, as a type of the
Great Sacrifice which should be offered—
even Christ the Lamb of God, to atone for
the sins of the world, that as man by trans-
gression had been driven from the presence
of God, he might through the atonement
and faith in His Son, be brought back again
to enjoy the Father's presence.
	And when Christ came in the meridian
of time he said, "I come not to destroy the
law or the prophets, but to fulfill." [Mat.
5th chap., 17th verse.] And by his cruci-
fixion he fulfilled the law of sacrifice, and
made a new law in the stead thereof, which
is the law of sacrament, in commemoration
of His broken body and spilt blood; and
this law is binding upon all who believe in
the gospel, and enter in at the door, as laid
down by Jesus and his Apostles having au-
thority from God. Now as there are many
who say there is not anything in the sayings
of the Savior, or in the New Testament,
in favor of plural marriage, before we pro-
ceed further please allow me to ask you a
question. Does it look reasonable, or is it
at all consistent, that God, who says He can
not look upon sin with the least degree of
allowance, should command all these say-
ings to be preserved and handed down as a
law and guide for the salvation of all fu-
ture generations, and hold up these patri-
archs and their works as an example
worthy of imitation, if He did not believe
in and sanction the principles they taught
and practised? It is written—"A house di-
vided against itself cannot stand." The
Savior not only refers the people to Abra-
ham, Isaac and Jacob, as also Moses, but in
Matthew, 17th chapter, 2d and 3d verses,
it says: "After Jesus was transfigured be-
fore them (Peter, James and John)
behold, then appeared unto them Moses and
Elias talking with him." In Matthew 22d
chapter and 32d verse, "I am the God of
Abraham, and the God of Isaac and the
God of Jacob," thus mentioning, as most
worthy the love and esteem of His Father,
these noted patriarchs of plural marriage;
and in John, 5th chapter, 46th verse, he
said: "For had ye believed Moses, ye would
have believed me: for he wrote of me. But
if ye believed not his writings how shall
ye believe my words." It plainly appears
by these remarks that Christ and Moses
were one in faith and doctrine. Again, in
Luke, 13th chapter, 28th verse, he said:
"There shall be weeping and gnashing of
teeth when ye shall see Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom
of God, and you yourselves thrust out."
John, 8th chapter, 39th verse, he said: "If
you were Abraham's children ye would do
the works of Abraham;" thereby showing
that he not only approved his works, but
would that others should follow his exam-
ple.
	The twelve patriarchs spoken of by the
Apostles in Acts, 7th chapter, 8th verse,
were the sons of Jacob by his plural wives.
In Acts, 13th chapter, 22d and 23d verses,
when Paul and Barnabas were teaching the
people the word of God, the Gospel as
preached by their forefathers, in order to
impress it more firmly upon their minds
they told them how the Lord said, "I have
found David the son of Jesse, a man after
mine own heart, which shall fulfill all my
will. Of this man's seed hath God, accord-
ing to his promise, raised unto Israel a Sa-
vior, Jesus."
	Hence, to my understanding this patri-
archal, polygamic tree has been always a

[Column 3]

favorite and chosen tree of the Lord of the
vineyard; and that no other could be found
which suited his purposes so well; and by
the fruit thereof we are to judge what man-
ner of tree it is. And of this tree Jesus is
the fruit. He could not condemn or do
away with it, for in so doing he would con-
demn himself; and not only that, but des-
troy the plan of the restoration of the whole
human family.
	Now, as we have analyzed the tree and
some of its main branches, and the fruit
thereof, and found them to be accepted of
the Lord of the vineyard, and a chosen seed,
we will search and learn what kind of a
root it has, for if you gentlemen and ladies
are determined to destroy this tree, you
should understand what you will have to
do in order to accomplish your designs.
We will discuss with you the root of this
patriarchal tree in our next chapter.
