			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
tke Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday June 23, was particularly spirited
and interesting. All who spoke seemed
to be impressed with a consciousness of the
necessity of earnest, and energetic action
on the subject of establishing home manu-
factures, and living more completely and
truly in accordance with the spirit and re-
quirements of the Gospel.
	The meeting was addressed by President
Mrs. M. I. Horne, Miss E. R. Snow, Zina D.
Young, Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs. M. J. At-
wood, President of Kamas Relief Society;
also Mrs. W. East, Mrs. M. E. A. Wat-
mough and Mrs. M. P. Anderson, all seem-
ingly filled with the good spirit. The prin-
cipal subjects of the meeting were those
pertaining to the practical labors of the
sisters at this time; the storing of grain by
the women of Utah was emphatically dwelt
upon, and many practical points in relation
to it were impressed upon the minds of the
sisters. Sericulture and its bearing upon
the future good of the people of this Terri-
tory, was also commented largely and wise-
ly upon. The necessity of sustaining the
Woman's Commission House, where all
home-manufactured articles are offered for
sale, was another item of interest, and much
was said that would have a tendency to
stimulate the people in the right direction.
The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was spoken of by
several, who seemed to realize the great
good resulting from it, and expressed a wish
to have its subscription increased so as to
warrant its being enlarged. The women of
Utah have so many labors to perform that
are of general interest to all, that it is abso-
lutely necessary to have some medium by
which they can be apprised of each others
movements, and act in unison. The EXPO-
NENT forms a small part of church litera-
ture; it is the voice of the women of the
church, and contains a part of the record of
their labors. These meetings are becoming
more and more interesting, and if the sis-
ters, mothers and daughters, want to go
where they can have a spiritual feast, they
should attend the Woman's Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms. The
meeting opens at two o'clock p. m. and
closes at four o'clock.

