			ALMY, UINTA, WYOMING TER.
						May 26th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wrote last January informing you of our
organization into a Relief Society. As this
is a coal-mining district we are more liable
to change than other places. Brothers Pike,
Crowther and Stoddart are removing their
families to Lake Town, Bear Lake; this
renders necessary a change of officers here.
Mrs. Catherine Beveridge is appointed to
preside in the place of Mrs. Pike; Mrs.
Martha Woodhouse, Mrs. Sims, Counselors.
Several other changes for various causes
have had to be made. The sisters who
have left us rejoice that they have assisted
in starting a Relief Society in this place.
Our society has been called upon to furnish
complete suits for two aged brethren for
burial; and we have assisted those who
through age or misfortune required it. We
meet every Monday; one meeting in the
month for the Teachers, one is a general
testimony meeting, the others for sewing.
These meetings are a benefit and blessing
to us, and we appreciate the privilege of
attending them. The counsel of those who
have been called to leave our settlement, is

[Column 2]
continue to meet together, fulfil the mis-
sion given to the sisters of this place, per-
form every duty faithfully, both officers and
members, and the Lord will flood your lives
with blessings.
	Accept our respect and earnest good
wishes.
		ELIZABETH LOUSIA CROWTHER,
							Secretary.

			BENJAMIN, June 13th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We wish to introduce ourselves as one of
the Societies of the great workers of Zion.
Our Society was organized last December
by Bishop Joseph Tanner of Payson, as fol-
lows:
	Sarah S. Roontz, President,
	Mary E. Stewart,	} Counselors.
	Sarah J. Betts	}
	E. L. Rogers, Secretary,
	K. H. Richardson, Treasurer.
	There are about twenty members, who all
feel interested enough in the Kingdom of
God to spend a portion of their time and
money in aiding the noble women of Utah
in their efforts to do good to all mankind.
We live in a secluded little town called
Benjamin, which is situated in a farming
district three miles north of Payson. We
take an interest in the storing of grain by
the sisters; we have planted two acres of
wheat, which is growing nicely. We think
we have a good place for silk-culture, there
being plenty of land for that purpose. We
have planted some mulberry trees this
spring, and expect to plant a great quantity
in the fall. We enjoy reading the EXPO-
NENT very much. We have given our
place a description for the sisters who visit
the Relief Societies, that they will not for-
get to visit us.
			Yours truly,
