	"BEHOLD THE BRIDEGROOM COMETH."

	"The kingdom of heaven is likened unto
ten virgins, who all had lamps and went out
to meet the bridegroom, and while the
bridegroom tarried they all slumbered and
slept, and at midnight a cry was heard,
"Behold the bridegroom cometh go ye out to
meet him," they all arose and trimmed their
lamps but the foolish had no oil, and they
said unto the wise give us of your oil, but
the wise refused, 'go and buy of them that
sell,' while they were gone the bridegroom
came and the doors were shut; afterwards
the foolish virgins came and knocked say-
ing master open to us, but the Savior said
"I know you not."
	There is another beautiful parable of the
Savior's recorded by St. Luke, connected
with the parable of the ten virgins, that
evidently has reference to the present day.
The Savior asks the question "When you
make a feast do you invite the poor, the
lame, the halt and the blind, or do you in-
vite the rich that you may receive recom-
pense?" the poor have not means to recom-
pense you, but if you invite the poor you
shall be rewarded in the resurrection of the
just. Now connect the testimony re-
corded by the Apostle Mathew xviii chapt.
"He will send his messengers with the
sound of a trump to gather His elect from
the four quarters of the earth." then He
shall come in power and great glory. Now
His messengers have been gathering His

[Column 2]elect for the last forty-six years and all na-
tions have been invited and all made ex-
cuses, and the Savior said unto His ser-
vants to tell those who have been invited, that
all is ready, to come quickly to the wedding
supper, but they prayed to be excused. The
servants returned and reported to the
master who was angry and said go straight
away into the highways and hedges and
compel them to come in that my house
may be filled, for not one of them that have
wished to be excused shall taste of my sup-
per.
	Now we would ask what is meant by oil in
their lamps? It is evident that the oil Is the
Holy Ghost that bears witness of the Father
and the Son to all baptized believers, who
are honest and are legally baptized by
one having authority to lay on hands for
the reception of the Holy Ghost. Now
some among us discourage the gift of
tongues because of the adversary taking
advantage of the unwise use of the gift.
In the Book of Mormon, 120th page, Ne-
phi speaking to the saints said, "Do you not
remember that I said unto you that after ye
had received the Holy Ghost ye should
speak with the tongue of angels." Angels
speak by the power of the Holy Ghost,
wherefore they speak the workds of Christ, for
when a man speaketh by the power of the
Holy Ghost the Holy Ghost carrieth it in-
to the hearts of the children of men, but
many harden their hearts against the Holy
Spirit that it hath no place in them." Book
of Mormon 514th page. "Behold I say un-
to you God changeth not and is a God of
miracles, and the reason why He ceaseth to
do miracles among the children of men is
because that they dwindle in unbelief and
depart from the right way and know now
God in whom they should trust."
	Now I feel bound by all that is sacred and
true to sustain and encourage these gifts of
the Gospel; if the adversary and all his
agents were to heal the sick, and speak in
tongues and do miracles, I know there is
the counterfeit and the true coin, and the
Holy Ghost is the dictator. I read of Jos-
eph Smith's first interview with Brigham
Young, when the hour arrived for family
prayer,  the Prophet Joseph called on Bro.
Young to pray and he prayed in tongues,
and those present asked the prophet what
he thought of the gift. Brother Young exer-
cised during the prayer; the prophect replied
"Brother Brigham spoke in the pure Adamic
language, and it was given by the Holy
Ghost and is of God, and he will yet lead
this people." And if I recollect right Levi
Hancock, who is still living, was present on
that occasion.
	In referring to the Book of Mormon, page
562, we find the following in respect to the
continuation of the gifts in the true church:
"And now I speak unto all the ends of the
earth, that if the day cometh that the
power and gifts of God shall be done away
among you, it shall be because of unbelief;
and woe unto those who shall do these
things away and die in their sins; they can-
not be saved in the Kingdom of God for if
there be one among you that doeth good he
shall work by the power and gifts of God."
