HOME AFFAIRS.

	MANY THANKS to Mrs. Elizabeth Wheeler
of Sugar House Ward, who placed upon our ta-
ble recently a dish of most delicious red-ripe
cherries, also a bouquet of wild-wood flowers
for which we have always felt a decided prefer-
ence. They carry our thoughts back unbidden
to childhood with its thousand familiar
haunts, where the lily-of-the-valley, the blue-
eyed daisy, the forget-me-not, the fragrant
honeysuckle and all the varieties of woodland
wild flowers bloomed in profusion. Yes give
us the "wild-wood flowers, sweet wild-wood
flowers."
	A SISTER IN Ephraim, Sanpete Co. has for-
warded the following for publication; a remedy
for the Codling moth, and although perhaps it
is rather late in the season now, it may be well
to know it:
	We have heard many cures for the Codling
moth, such as illuminated washtubs and the
like, which doubtless are all good in their way;
now I will give you another way. Go out into
your lots, examine your trees, you will find
little patches of yellow eggs, you have seen
flies blow meat, they are something like it,


only darker colored. Take with you all your
children that can reach the branches, then treat
them (that is the moths,) as I have done: take
your thumb, you can put a rag around it if
you like, and smash the eggs; set about it at
once for the eggs are swelling, in this way you
can destroy millions. It has been effectual in
hundreds of instances.

	A SPECIAL MEETING of the Relief Society
of Taylorsville, North Jordan Ward, Salt Lake
Co., was held Tuesday, June 26, for the purpose
of organizing the young ladies of the ward in-
to a Retrenchment Association. Bishop Sam-
uel Bennion, his counselors and some other
brethren were present. Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. M. I Horne, Mrs. E. S. Barney, and Mrs.
E. B. Wells from Salt Lake City, were also
present by invitation. Mrs. M. I Horne was
nominated by Miss E. R. Snow to preside over
the meeting, and Miss Hattie Bennion was
chosen to act as secretary pro tem. The
officers were chosen and sustained by the vote
of the Bishop, the Relief Society and all pres-
ent. Mrs. Mary Ann Hague was elected as
president, Miss Hattie Bennion, secretary.
Some business was transacted pertaining to the
society, and many good things were said by
the Bishop and the sisters, bringing in the sub-
ject of women's organizations, storing grain,
sericulture, The Woman's Store, the necessity
of being practically self-sustaining, and
other things which pertain to the department
of woman's labor in the kingdom of God.


