[CONTINUED]

	President Joseph Smith opened the meet-
ing by prayer, and then addressed the congre-
gation on the design of the institution. Said
it is no matter how fast the society increases,
if all the members are virtuous; that we must
be as particular with regard to the character of
members now, as when the society first start-
ed; that sometimes persons wish to crowd
themselves into a society of this kind when
they do not intend to pursue the ways of pur-
ity and righteousness, as if the society would
be a shelter to them in their iniquity.
	He said that henceforth no person shall be
admitted, but by presenting regular petitions,
signed by two or three members in good stand-
ing in the society, and whoever comes in must
be of good report.
	Objections having been previously made
against Mahala Overton, they were removed;
after which President Joseph Smith continued
his address; said he was going to preach mercy.
Suppose that Jesus Christ and holy angels
should object to us on frivolous things, what
would become of us?  We must be merciful to
one another, and overlook small things.
	Respecting the reception of sister Overton,
President Joseph Smith said: It grieves me
that there is no fuller fellowship; if one mem-
ber suffer all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God. Christ said he came to
call sinners to repentance, and save them.
Christ was condemned by the self-righteous
Jews because he took sinners into his society;
he took them upon the principle that they re-
pented of their sins. It is the object of this so-
ciety to reform persons, not to take those who
who are corrupt and foster them in their wick-
edness; but if they repent we are bound to


[Column 1]
take them, and by kindness sanctify and
cleanse them from all unrighteousness by our
influence in watching over them. Nothing
will have such influence over people as the
fear of being disfellowshipped by so goodly a
society as this. Then take sister Overton as
Jesus received sinners into his bosom. Sister
Overton, in the name of the Lord, I now make
you free. Nothing is so much calculated to
lead people to forsake sin as to take them by
the hand, and watch over them with tender-
ness. When persons manifest the least kind-
ness or love toward me, O what power it has
over my mind, while the opposite course has a
tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings
and depress the human mind.
	It is one evidence that men are unacquaint-
ed with the principles of godliness to behold
the contraction of affectionate feelings and lack
of charity in the world. The power and glory
of godliness is spread out on a broad principle
to throw out the mantle of charity. God does
not look upon sin with allowance, but when
men have sinned, there must be allowance
made for them.
	All the religious world is boasting of right-
eousness: it is the doctrine of the devil to re-
tard the human mind, and hinder our progress,
by filling us with self-rightousness. The
nearer we get to our Heavenly Father, the
more are we disposed to look with compassion
on perishing souls; we feel that we want to
take them upon our shoulders, and cast their
sins behind our backs. My talk is intended
for all this society; if you would have God
have mercy on you, have mercy on one an-
other.
	President Smith then referred them to the
conduct of the Savior when he was taken and
crucified, etc.
	He then made a promise in the name of the
Lord, saying that that soul who has right-
eousness enough to ask God in the secret place
for life, every day of their lives, shall live to
three score years and ten. We must walk up-
rightly all the day long. How glorious are the
principles of righteousness! We are full of
selfishness; the devil flatters us that we are
very righteous, when we are feeding on the
faults of others. We can only live by worship-
ping our God; all must do it for themselves;
none can do it for another. How mild the
Savior dealt with Peter, saying, "When thou
art converted, strengthen thy brethren." At
another time, he said to him, "Lovest thou
me?" and having received Peter's reply, he
said, "Feed my sheep." If the sisters love the
Lord, let them feed the sheep, and not destroy
them. How oft have wise men and women
sought to dictate brother Joseph by saying,
"Oh, if I were brother Joseph, I would do this
and that;" but if they were in brother Joseph's
shoes they would find that men or women
could not be compelled into the Kingdom of
God, but must be dealt with in long suffering,
and at last we shall save them. The way to
keep all the saints together, and keep the work
rolling, is to wait with all long-suffering, till
God shall bring such characters to justice.
There should be no license for sin, but mercy
should go hand in hand with reproof.
	Sisters of this society, shall there be strife
among you? I WILL NOT HAVE IT. You
must repent, and get the love of God. Away
with self-righteousness. The best measure or
principle to bring the poor to repentance is to
administer to their wants; the Ladies Relief
Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to
save souls.
	President Smith then said that he would
give a lot of land to the society, by deeding it
to the treasurer, that the society may build

[Column 2]
houses for the poor. He also said he would
give a house, frame not finished, and that
brother Cahoon will move it on to the afore-
said lot, and the society can pay him by giv-
ing orders on the store; that it was a good plan
to set those to work who are owing widows,
and thus made an offset; etc.


