			RIVERSIDE, CAL., June 6.
					As I sit here on the
broad verandah encircling Glenwood, watch-
ing the graceful pepper trees as they wave
to and fro, casting dense shadows over the
floor, feeling the soft breath of the sea
breeze as it creeps through the grape vine
lattice, it calls to memory the first day I
passed in Salt Lake, in October last, when
the locusts were nodding familiarly to each

[Column 2]
other as they shadowed the Townsend
House porch and occasionally a bright yel-
low leaf flitted noiselessly down into the
water and was borne away out of sight.
There is so much beauty and companion-
ship to me in trees and shrubs, that no
landscape seems perfect without them. I
thought I had never seen anything so Eden-
like in its beauty as some of the trees in
Salt Lake City, and I have been reminded
of them often in watching these in this
yard. I was so delighted with my first
glimpse of Zion, which was indeed to me a
city of rest, and always in connection with
thoughts of that place comes the recollec-
tions of my pleasant acquaintance with you
and yours, and I shall always feel so grate-
for having come to know you. I so often
think of the conversations we have had,
the songs the boys and girls sang for me, and
I wonder if we shall all enjoy the same ex-
perience together again—surely, I trust so.
	You ask for my impression of this coun-
try—I can scarcely tell you. The stage-ride
from Idaho to San Francisco was through a
delightful country, early in spring. Vege-
tation was rapidly advancing, and the broad
panoramic vision was a succession of delight-
ful landscapes, containing beautiful trees,
flowers, etc. Nature had on her richest
garments. The wonderful city of the Bay
—the great planet of the West—I was dis-
appointed in; so much has been said of it,
and yet it does not compare favorably with
Eastern cities—Oakland is much more de-
sirable as a home. The old ocean in all its
marvellous grandeur was a sight never to
be forgotten, and "I gathered shells by the
seashore" while listening to the sullen roar
of the surf. From Los Angelos the trip
was through an uninteresting country, and
I was quite glad when it was at an end.
Los Angelos is a very pretty city, though it
does not meet the expectation, I think, of
all tourists, so much has been said of its
marvellous beauty; nor is it so desirable for
invalids as other towns farther inland. I
enjoyed greatly a ride about the city and
through the orange groves, where the yellow
fruit and white blossoms contrasted beauti-
fully with the dark shining background of
leaves.
	After a short sojourn I left there and
came to Riverside, 60 miles distant. This
is a colony town of about 1200 inhabitants,
established four or five years ago, and is 6
miles distant from the railroad. The glow-
ing letters written from Southern Califor-
nia had given me the impression that it
must be the Eden of the world; but I found
it a dry and barren desert, and all the beau-
ty existing was that produced by irrigation
and hard labor; and in its original state was
destitute of anything save sagebrush scat-
tered here and there over the plain that
was as devoid of beauty as Idaho Flat. But
the possibilities of this country are unlim-
ited—it is quite possible to imagine if you
were to plant a broomstick in this product-
ive soil it would produce the choicest flow-
ers. Among the mountains and foothills
grow the most lovely wild flowers the sun
ever shone upon, whose beauty far exceeds
the choicest of hot-house plants; and along
the river bottoms the wild grape vine
stretches out its arms and clambers over
rocks, trees, shrubs, etc., in a most artistic
and charming fashion.
	"Water—more water," is the cry that
comes up from all over Southern California,
particularly this year, though as yet this
town, which has two large canals, supplied
from Santa Ana River, has not been visited
by drouth, and the yards and gardens are
very lovely. At first, as I said, I was dis-

[Column 3]
appointed, but each day new beauties and
possibilities are developed, that serve to 
strengthen my faith, and to-day I am as in-
sane upon the subject as the "oldest inhab-
itant." This district is a new one, and is
being set out to orange groves for a distance
of nine miles; a few trees are bearing, but
the majority will not produce fruit for a
few years. Lemons, limes, figs, pomegran-
ates, almonds, walnuts, etc., are cultivated
largely also.
	The Society of Riverside is all one could
desire, being composed of New Englanders,
a few New Yorkers, etc., all refined, culti-
vated, scholarly people. The schools are
excellent; three churches and several liter-
ary societies.


