YOUNG MEN—AND OLD?

	I have been asked, "How is it that so
many young girls of the present day, in-
stead of marrying men whose ages corres-
pond to their own, seem, in preference, to
celect middle-aged, or even elderly men for
husbands? Is not this mating of 'January
and May' an outrage against decency and
nature?” Not at all. Some people attrib-
ute this preference for men of mature age
to a mercenary spirit on the part of the
young girls or their parents. I think that,
although marriages between youth and age
are, as a rule, undesirable, there may be
other reasons than speculative ones which
attract young women toward middle-aged
or elderly men.
	Men of mature years are aware that all
women are attracted by gentleness of man-
ner and deference to their sex. Conse-
quently they, as a rule, cultivate "the small,
sweet courtesies of life," which costs so lit-
tle to those born with instincts of gentle-
men, and which are responded to by women
of every age and condition with interest
and gratitude.
	It is frequently charged upon girls of the
day, that they are vain and frivolous to an
alarming degree. This is true to some ex-
tent, but the young men of the period,
with rare exceptions, are in addition to
these follies, characterized by a rudeness
and imbecility which have heretofore had
no parallel in the history of the human
race. Vain, foppish, blatant, coarse, and to
all save those they have a special fancy for,
uncivil, they are a disgrace to the age in
which they belong. Perfect blanks as to
intellect, perfect bores as to manners, the
young men of the present day, as a rule,
have nothing but their soft hands, and their
infinitely softer heads to recommend them
to the favorable notice of the sex to which,
with the discrimination peculiar to idiots,
consequent of a vacuum in the skull, they
fancy themselves mentally and physically
superior. The middle-class young man, as
a rule, is rude in his instincts uncivil in his
expressions, brutal in his mirth, and is, in
fact, with a more effeminate physique, in
manner, speech and act, a "Caliban" of the
most decided stamp. Those, who by birth
and social position are spoken of as belong-
ing to the upper classes, have a quiet, su-
perciliousness, an insolence of manner to-
wards women with whom they are famil-
iar, which is only endurable because it is
less demonstrative and obtrusive than that
which characterizes those of a lower social
status.
	Middle-aged and elderly men belong to
an age when deference to the sex to which
their mothers belonged was made as im-
portant a part of the education of a gentle-
man as were the articles of his faith to the
creed of a Christian. No matter how old


or unattractive, or how low in station a wo-
man might be, the simple fact of woman-
hood was a claim upon the kindness and
civility of the opposite sex. Half a cen-
tury ago society did not allow a young man
to ignore his mother or to snub his sisters as
unworthy of any attention or consideration
from his high mightiness. The old chival-
ric spirit of protection and deference to the
physically weaker sex was inculcated upon
boys of all classes and conditions, and rude-
ness of speech or brutality of act towards
a woman, would, in the society of a gener-
ation or two ago, have met with sudden and
severe castigation.
	No wonder that the "cold shoulder" of
the girl of the period—vain and frivolous
as she is—should be turned to young men,
and that she should prefer to venture her
happiness with one who held her sex in
some honor and respect, even if that one
should be no longer youthful or externally
attractive! Thank heaven that, weak and
hollow as she may be, there is some wo-
manly instinct in her nature which leads
her to turn away from the rude and coarse
nature and give herself to that which has
most appreciation and consideration for
womanhood—to one whom, if she does not
love, she still cannot help but respect and
esteem.
	ANNE E. M'DOWELL.
—"Woman's Words."


