SILK ASSOCIATION.

		AMERICAN FORK, June 9th, 1877.
	According to previous appointment, a
meeting was held at this place at 2 p. m.,
for the purpose of organizing a Silk Asso-
ciation for Utah County. Nearly all the
settlements were represented. We were
also favored with the company of Judge
Pyper of Salt Lake City. Meeting called to
order by D. Graves of Provo, and motioned
that Bishop L. E. Harrington act as Chair-
man of the meeting, and Wm. Greenwood
Secretary of the same.
	The chairman stated the object of the
meeting, which was to organize for the
raising of silk, and combining our efforts
for that purpose. Daniel Graves expressed
the interest he felt, and his anxiety to see
the day when silk raising would be a suc-
cess in Utah.
	Judge Pyper gave at length his experi-
ence in raising silk worms, and the neces-
sity of opening up a market for the disposal
of the silk, etc., in order to obtain means
to remunerate the laborer. Spoke very in-
terestingly on the habits and treatment of
the worms, and also of the many causes of
failure. Gave instructions concerning the
raising of the mulberry tree, and referred
to the small plantation under the superin-
tendance of Mrs. Mary Hindley, President
of the Relief Society of American Fork, as
very creditable, and set out just right.
	Samuel Cornaby related some of his
practical experience with the worms, and
recommended that we never cease our ex-
ertions until we make silk raising a success
in Utah.
	Short addresses were given by Bishop
George Halliday of Santaquin, Mrs. Han-
nah Woolley and Mrs. Mary Hindley.
	A committee were then chosen to nomi-
nate officers for the organization. During
their absence Judge Pyper addressed the
meeting interestingly, and recommended
the planting of mulberry trees in our or-
chards and around our fences, etc.
	The committee then reported the follow-
ing names, which were unanimously adopt-
ed:
	President, Mrs. Mary Hindley of Ameri-
can Fork; Vice Presidents will embrace all
the Presidents of Relief Societies and Re-
trenchment Associations in Utah County,
or their representatives elect; Secretary,
Mrs. Emma Featherstone of American
Fork; Treasurer, Mrs. Jemima Durant of
American Fork; Corresponding Secretary,
Mrs. Samuel Cornaby of Spanish Fork;
Traveling Agent, Daniel Graves of Provo.
