				AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.

				PAYSON, June 7th, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The annual meeting of the Payson Relief
Society was held May 20th, 1877, on which

[Column 3]
occasion the house was decorated with the
handiwork of the sisters as well as works
of art contributed by the brethren. A
poem on home industry, silk culture, the
storing of grain, talents, wisdom, fashion
and virtue, composed for the occasion by
Mrs. A. M. Snyder, was read. Among the
visitors were Bishop Tanner, Elders Henry
W. Barnett, J. L. Townsend, Edward Reed
and several other brethren, also the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society at Goshen, her
counselors, secretary, and other members
of the Society. After the meeting had
been opened in the usual way the annual
report was read, which showed that there
had been received during the year:
Donations..................................... $230 33 ½
Disbursed..................................... $159 09
After which the President, Mrs. Jane Si-
mons said she was pleased to see so many
present. She called the attention of the
meeting to a pair of socks, the silk raised,
spun and knit by Mrs. Grace Wegnall; also
a pair of black silk mitts by Mrs. Arteme-
sia White; artificial flowers by Miss Lillie
Curtis; crochet basket by Miss Fannie
Coombs, and many other handsome articles,
too numerous to mention. There were
also fancy brackets for flower-pots, hanging-
baskets and many other things by J. L. Towns-
end; and paintings by the brethren. The
speaker said, as a society all had tried to fill
their missions, and the president had tried
to act in concert with the Bishop.
	Elders Henry Barnett, J. L. Townsend,
and Edward Reed each addressed the meet-
ing and gave good counsel, and encouraged
the sisters to persevere in their united la-
bors.
	President Mrs. Simons said she would
like to hear from Bishop Tanner, but he
said there was not time.
	We have a lot planted with mulberry
trees. The City Council has granted us
another; if successful with the mulberry
trees and raising the worms they will grant
us three more. Our president with her
counselors and all the sisters feel anxious
to fill their mission in sericulture, and all
other counsel that is given, and join with
me in love, wishing every success to at-
tend your labors.
