EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having a few moments for reflection on
the plan of salvation to the human family,
I cannot but acknowledge the goodness of
our Father in heaven, for reserving my spir-
it until the last dispensation that I might
be permitted to be numbered with the
saints of God, and to share with them the
great and glorious blessings which are with-
in our reach, if we will walk humbly before
the Lord, and do what He has required at
our hands. He has promised if we will do
His will, we shall have a knowledge for
ourselves. This, thousands of the Latter-
day Saints can bear testimony to. When I
first came into this church I thought it
strange that the people of the world could
not understand that it was the work of God.
Now I can see the reason is because they
did not bow in obedience to the Gospel,
which is the only way we can gain that as-
surance for ourselves. I think now, this is
why so many fight against one of the most
noble and elevating principles, called Celes-
tial Marriage. I am sure if the world could
understand it in its purity, as the Lord has
revealed it, they would cease to fight
against it. It is too late to doubt whether
it is true; we not only have the testimony
of the ancients that plural marriage was ap-
proved and acknowledged by our Father in
heaven, but we have a living testimony
within ourselves to-day that has been
"bought with a price," and all the world
cannot deceive us, nor Satan either, so long
as we retain the spirit of God, that is as a
lamp to our feet. I have watched it for
many years, and to-day it is dearer to me
than when I first entered into that holy an-
cient order of the Gospel. All the world
might try to convince me I am misled, but
I should know for myself that the princi-
ple is right and approved of by God. When
a man or woman is guided by the spirit of
God, they can understand for themselves
that this principle is true. My own expe-
rience has taught me more than all the
world beside could do, and who can take it
from me? If I do my Father's will who is
in heaven, no one can. Where is the man
or woman that can make us unhappy if we
do right. We are beyond their reach.
When we suffer ourselves to feel unhappy,
we are yielding to evil influences, and we
forget ourselves. The sooner we retrace our
steps the better it is for us; the adversary
is always ready at any time to take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, but he cannot en-
ter our hearts or homes if we are always on
our guard. The Lord will never forsake us
if we do not grieve His holy spirit. When
we are tempted let us go to our Heavenly
Father and tell Him our troubles, He is the
best comforter. He will never take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, but will  help and
comfort us. Never trust too much to the
arm of flesh for it is mortal.
	I am proud to bear the name of a Latter-
day Saint. It matters not what the world
may think of me, I know in whom I have
believed, and I am not afraid to say to-day
that the more the world try to persecute
and slander us, that much faster the king-
dom of God will grow. I know this, judg-
ing the present by the past. I have watch-
ed it for thirty-six years and never seen it
fall. While enemies are heaping up false-
hoods against the authorities of this Church,
the men whom God has appointed to lead
this people, they are bringing the withering
powers of the Almighty upon their own
heads. The Lord has said "Hurt not the
Lord's anointed, and do my holy ones no

[Column 2]
harm." How thankful we as Latter-day
Saints ought to be to know that we are
worthy to be called the children of God. Let
us be up and doing, regardless of the ene-
mies of truth; they have got their work to
do and so have we.
	Let us, one and all, my sisters, do all in
our power to carry out the counsel and in-
structions of our beloved President Brig-
ham Young, and our enemies will have but
very little power over us, only to spread
the truth to the nations of the earth. The
kingdom of God is established on the earth
and in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints,
and no power beneath the heavens can stay
its progress. Sisters there is nothing for us
to fear, come life or come death; if we live
day by day in the line of our duty to the
end of onr race, eternal life is sure for us in
the kingdom of God.
					SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, June 8th, 1877.


A young girl "who knows" says that "be-
tween times in the farm work and of eve-
nings the boys went hunting, fishing, coast-
ing, swimming, skating, etc.; the girls
helped mother make, mend, and keep clean
the boys' clothes, and braided palm-leaf
hats. It is not the equally hard study that
causes the girl's health to give way: but 
the extra hard chance she has to get at the
study, and the extra hard work that ac-
companies the study. Boys work equally 
hard at their studies, but do not spend their
evenings and an hour before and after each
meal helping an overhurdened father.
Therein lies the difference."—Ex.


[Column 1]
		COL. J. REESE
Is Sole Agent f[-] Utah, for the Almond Pow-
				der Toilet Soap.
	Finely powdered and put up in glass bottles, with per-
forat[-]d tops. As a [-]oilet article, it is excellent; it clean-
ses and pu[-]ifies [-]he skin.
	For sale, wholesale and retail, corner First South and
Second West Street, Fourteenth Ward.

