WOMAN'S EXPECTATIONS.

	It is often remarked that the women of the
present age are trying to revolutionize the 
world. That a new era for woman has com-
menced here in America and elsewhere is pos-
itive and apparent. From nearly all quarters
of the globe come the tidings of woman's ad-
vancement, or development, or influence in
some new sphere, or public capacity. 
	This is real. Woman's star is in the ascend-
ant. Woman begins to feel in a greater degree
the influence of the mission given her to per-
form, and a presentiment of the blessings
which are to be bestowed upon her when she
arrives at a more advanced practise of the true
laws of life and health. This consciousness
of something which is to come, is so widely ap-
parent as to affect almost all womankind.
They know there is a change to be effected and 
they are striving for it many of them, but in dif-
ferent ways. What is the cause of this peculiar
genius of the age, and what its signification?
Can the wise, the learned, the philosopher, the
sage, the great observers of human nature and 
"the signs of the times" inform us? We know
what they can tell us, and that is all they
comprehend about it. This is their summing
up of the matter. Woman feels her servitude,
her degradation, and she is determined to as-
sert her rights, to attain to an equality with 
man, and to train herself to fill any position
and places of trust and honor as appropriately
and with as much dignity as her brother man.
That she may not be compelled to conditions
that are distasteful and objectionable in matri-
mony, that she shall have rights and privi-
leges peculiarly her own and be able to protect
herself in them. That she need not be held
as goods and chattels at the mercy or brutality
of man. To be brief, they believe her highest
motive is, that she may be recognized as a re-
sponsible being, capable of judging for and
maintaining herself, and standing upon just as
broad, grand and elevated a platform as man.
This is all the wisdom of the world's wise acres
can tell you. The majority of men hold such
ideas in derision. Woman, they say is to them
in her dependency, dearer, lovelier, more com-
panionable than when she steps out of her 
sphere and seeks to become equal in education,
and in self-reliance to man. One great Eng-
lish writer in alluding to the subject says, such
movements will tend to make "masculine wo-
men and effeminate men."  On the contrary,
we argue that such mothers as have disciplined
themselves to rely more fully upon their own
judgment, who have been educated to a high
standard in all that the science of life can teach,
in all departments of knowledge which pertain
to the development of mental or physical fac-
ulties, will exercise such pre-natal and after

[Column 2]

influences over their offspring as will imbue
their sons with noble intutitions and higher
aspirations, than the mother whose most en-
grossing object in life is the diligent care of her
husband's house and the fear of losing any por-
tion of his affection. To many women this 
fear is the bane of their lives, and to obtain,
and retain the husband's love, is more to them
than the salvation of their own souls, or the 
present or future welfare of their offspring.
	When woman's highest incentive is to attain
to the most superior excellence in the discip-
ling and refining of the faculties of the soul,
when she esteems these of more consequence
than the cultivation of the graces and accom-
plishments that will charm the senses, and 
captivate the hearts of the opposite sex, then
will much of the jealousy and envy which now
exists, sink into oblivion; and a great share of
the unhappiness among men and women will
consequently give place to healthier thoughts
and purer feelings.
	Then women will be capable of a more ex-
alted sentiment in the associations of a mari-
tal nature, and it will be none the less genuine
because it is governed and controlled by higher
thoughts and holier impulses. Through such
channels of cultivation and refinement of soul,
woman may eventually attain to a fuller reali-
zation of her future destiny. And as woman
thus steps forward and takes a higher step to-
wards perfection, she will naturally aspire to
unite herself in the sacred and holy covenant
of marriage with a higher type of manhood.
Thus may woman become a real helper in the 
preparation to be made for "the coming of the
Bridegroom." Is it not reasonable to suppose
that the divinity in woman's nature is being in-
fluenced by the spirit of the age which betokens
the near approach of the great advent of the 
Messiah? There is a power which mankind do
not understand that is working among the in-
habitants of the earth. It is the ushering in 
of the great final movement for the redemption
of the human family, the living and the dead:
and as woman was first in the transgression, 
first at the sepulchre, first to proclaim the res-
urrection of Christ, it is but consistent with the
past to suppose, she will be an active and po-
tent helper in the restoration of all things,
which will include the removal of the curse
placed upon her after her transgression, and 
which will restore woman to her true position.


