TIONS.

	My dear young friends, I have often
thought I would like to address a few lines
to you, which may possibly help to strength-
en and encourage some, and will, at least,
injure none.
	All parents who love their children are
greatly interested in the Associations for
the young. Even though they may be self-
ish and narrow-minded they desire the ad-
vancement of their own; and young peo-
ple more than older ones are sure to par-
take, in a great degree, of their surround-
ings.
	Some of you, in accordance with the
counsel of President Young, have adopted
resolutions in your societies, to stop round
dancing in your public halls; and to such I
will say, in the name of One whose prom-
ises never fail, if you will be firm in your
resolves you will yet realize a blessing
therefrom; and to those who have not, do
not turn away in disgust, with a feeling in
your hearts that you do not wish to hear
anything on the subject. You all exclaim
it is the most enjoyable form of dance we
have, and I agree with you. What could
be more beautiful or interesting, either to
participator or beholder, than a graceful,
nicely performed waltz? I believe there
will be such dancing in paradise, where all
will be pure and true in their actions and
emotions, and the heartless libertine cannot
clasp the innocent maiden to his vile breast.
Many think the Lord would not deign to
influence the minds of His servants in mat-
ters of so small moment, but to such I
would say, you know not His ways; and to
those who are doubtful, and have not confi-
dence to believe that this counsel has been
dictated by the Spirit of God, there is but
one way by which you can obtain that
knowledge, and the way is open to all. If
you are living in the enjoyment of the
Spirit of God yourselves you cannot be de-
ceived. We do not wish to hold the old
sectarian lake of fire and brimstone before
our young people, and preach to them until
they hate the sound of religion, but we
wish to see them gently and willingly led
by that peaceful influence which the Spirit
of God brings. When I have seen the
youthful stand up in the calm assurance
which His spirit brings, with no puffed up
confidence in their own greatness, but a
firm reliance on Him who is Omnipotent,
and speak in defense of the principles which
they have embraced, I have been led to ex-
claim, what could be more beautiful! Surely
all within their hearing, who have a heaven
born feeling left within them, must in
their hearts be convinced of the truths to
which they bear witness. I believe the
time will soon come when many of our
young people will arouse, and shake off
their feelings of worldly-mindedness; o that
such may be the case is the sincere prayer
of a mother in Zion.
	L. P.


[Column 1]
