Grandmother's Day Estelle Webb Thomas Before the gorgeous flags of Dawn unfurled Against the eastern skies, Upon her narrow, dear,' familiar world She opened eager eyes. As humming low some old and quaint refrain, She dressed by candle-light,. With practiced skill she bent her busy brain To plan her day aright. So many, many things to fill the day— So much that must be done! And like a gallant Captain in the fray She girt her armor on. The blue smoke sped to greet the morning star, The cock his matin shrilled, The silent homestead, suddenly astir, With morning sounds was filled. And when at last her radiant face she turned To greet the rising sun, The foaming milk was strained—the butter churned, Her day was well begun. And soon the rosy children, at her call, Each smiling, took his place, And graced the great old table in the hall With shining morning face. Her good man sat there beaming at the head, Expectant as the rest, And when the long and heart-felt grace was said He bade her do her best! With golden buckwheat cakes, all: steaming hot, She filled each waiting plate, And o'er them poised the maple syrup pot— What nectar this they ate! GRANDMOTHER'S DAY They never stopped to count their calories — They did not know the word, And malnutrition was a malady Of which they'd never heard! Indeed, I fear they well deserved the term Of "Ignorance is bliss!" For Grandmamma, without a thought of germs, Bestowed a hearty kiss Upon the rosy lips of every child, Before her brood dispersed: Nor specter of bacteria, grim and wild, Her tender conscience cursed! The dishes washed, she hung the towels to dry, And swept with careful haste; Stirred up a cake and baked an apple pie, Just paused her roast to baste. ~ Before, in her unsanitary way, She stirred each feather tick, And spread the quilts of patchwork, quaint and gay, With movements deft and quick. She did her bit of weaving in a trice, She spun a skein or so, She made the rounds of barnyard once or twice, And turned a stocking toe. So on, throughout the day, with cheerful heart And energy and vim, She did what she conceived to be her part, And left the rest to him _ On whom, with faith implicit, she relied, And placed her childlike trust, Nor doubted in His House she should gate When dust returned to dust. And when the busy day at last was done, The prayers devoutly said, The children washed, and "tucked in," every one, Her weary spouse a-bed, She knelt an instant in the friendly dark, Her thoughts unvoiced and deep, Then, whole-souled in her rest as in her work, Sank dreamlessly to sleep. 365 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September ) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR SEPTEMBER—CIVIC PRIDE Fall Cleaning and Planting 'I. Attention to yards, gardens and sidewalks. During Vall and early Winter months yards, gardens and sidewalks should be cleared of weeds, flower stalks, fallen leaves and other rubbish. II. Enlist services of young boys' and girls' clubs and societies in cleaning up streets. Hy. Fall planting and transplanting—bulbs, peonies, iris, etc.