Tabitha Matilda Norton By her Granddaughter Minnie Wright Boyle Grandma Norton was born in Jackson county, Ohio, January 29, 1837. She was the daughter of John and Christina Staker McDaniel and was the second child of a family of eight. When she was one year old her father's family was compelled to leave their home on account of their religion. They moved to Illinois and later went to Iowa and there prepared to come west. She was a pioneer of 1852, making most of the journey across the plains on foot. The family settled in Alpine, Utah. She lived in this little mountain village until she married William ~ David Norton. Her mother died when she was a small girl, but she cared for the family like a mother. The family included a little brother only nine days old. It is said that this child throughout all his life called her mother and often told her that no better mother ever lived. Thirteen children were born to her; eleven of these: she reared and also one grandchild. Two small children and four grown daughters and three grown sons and her husband preceded her in death. Grandma was an excellent weaver. In the early days she made straw hats for her family. These hats were made from meadow grass and pressed with a hot iron while damp. She spun, wove, and sewed by hand clothes for the entire family. She colored the cloth used for dresses with green sagebrush and the yellow blossoms of the rabbit brush. She also made full suits for her husband and the boys. These clothes were pressed with one flat iron, for at one time she owned the only iron in the settlement, and it was handed from one family to another, making. The round about every two weeks. Grandma and Grandpa moved to Willard, Boxelder county, and that is where my mother was born. From there they were called by President Brigham Young. With other Saints to settle Dixie. On the way to Dixie arf incident full of human interest occurred. The children wished to take with thei a. Cat, but because of the load and'the confusion of the trip, Grandpa refused their request. The children seldom disobeyed him, as he was very strict, but their love for their pet overcame all fears, so they hid pussy in the wagon. In the evening after they had, as was their custom, made a circle of their wagons, in getting out of the wagon the necessary utensils to cook supper on the campfire, Grandpa discovered the cat. The thought that his children had disobeyed him made him very angry and he took kitty by TABITHA MATILDA NORTON 355 the tail and swinging it around and around, then let it go. It lit in the frying pan of one of his comrades who was frying salt bacon for supper. It, jumped from the pan and no more was seen of it until the next evening when they camped for the night. In taking the necessary things from the wagon, pussy was discovered deep down in one corner with nine little kittens. Grandpa loved animals as well as 'children and felt sorry for his show of temper the night before. He tucked in the cat with the kittens and they journeyed to the south with the family, and Grandma often spoke of the pleasure the ten cats gave not only to her own children but the other children of the settlement. After a year and a half in Dixie they started back for food and for safety. The Indians had stolen most of their cattle and much of their food and clothing. It was in the middle of winter, cold and dreary. On Christmas Eve they camped under some cedar trees and prepared to celebrate next day, (Christmas Day) as best they could. They received a wonderful Christmas present. A baby boy was born to them in a large army wagon, this being their fifth child. They rested three days and then journeyed on to Richfield, where they found food, clothing and friends. They moved to Gunnison and later to Nephi, where they lived for more than forty years. When Grandma first moved to Nephi she lived in a dugout on the bank of the "Big Hollow," while Grandpa built a one-room house and a "lean-to." As the family increased he built on three more rooms. They lived in these rooms before they were entirely finished and one night in early spring while they were all in bed an awful wind storm came up and blew the roof off the house. While going into the ofher room to see if the children were all right, one of the walls caved in and almost buried Grandpa. Grandma arose, and holding a young baby in one arm, worked for more than an hour lifting adobes and rafters off Grandpa. He was hurt very badly and could not walk for months. It was at this time that a little girl was killed. Grandma was also badly hurt, being almost scalped, but did not realize it until long after © neighbors arrived to help them out. They built another house on the same lot and it is still standing. Another story of human interest, incident to the bringing up of a family is told of Grandpa. They had a large family and many of the neighbor children came to Grandma's to play. In their games they ran round and round the house, creating much confusion and disconcerting in a measure, Grandpa. He used to say, "Go it boots, shoes are cheap. Wear the ground out around the house and. Leave me and Ma up on a hill.' My mother said that she had a mental picture of Grandma and Grandpa high up on a hill and all the children below climbing up the dirt steps to the house above. Grandma and Grandpa lived together fifty-two years. She 
 always felt that she had been greatly blessed to live for so long a time with her helpmate. After Grandpa's death she gave up the old home and went to live with her children. She died December 11, 1920. Her work was done. She was satisfied to go. She had perfect faith, that she would be met and greeted by her husband and the boys and girls who had gone before. Special Notice to Stake and Ward Officers The General Board of Relief Society is in receipt of a letter from the General Board of the rimary Association which 'sets forth the fact that the Primary children having supplied the convalescent hospital with what is needed are now eaget to do something to be helpful to others who need help. Consequently, they are asking that the Relief 'Society in all stakes and in all wards plan their work in such a way that these young people of the Seagull organization may assist in such sewing as they are capable of doing.. This suggestion coming from the Primary Association has the hearty approval of the General Board of the Relief Society. The notice by the Primary Association, which follows, will make clear what that organization has in mind. SEAGULL GIRLS ANXIOUS TO HELP THOSE IN NEED ~ "Due to the fact that there is no present need for supplies for the Chidren's Convalescent Hospital, the Seagull girls of the Church have asked the privilege of co-operating with the Reliet Societies for this Summer in doing some needed handwork, such as mending, darning, sewing or other such work which will be helpful to busy mothers. It is desired that the Seagull advisors confer with the Relief Society workers and that the task be assigned which will be considered best by the officers of both associations." Respectfully, General Board Primary Ass'ns. By GENET-B. DEE Chairman Seagull Committee.