SARAH ANDREWS BAILEY AND HER HUSBAND, LANGLEY A. BAILEY Sarah Andrews Bailey "It isn't the number of years you've lived; That isn't what counts, you know; It's the way you've lived and the good you've done That makes us fove you so." In the pleasant little village of Packington, Leicestershire, " England, lived William Andrews, his wife, Ann Wright Andrews, and their four children, two girls and two boys, when the gospel message came to them, which changed so entirely the course of their lives. This good couple, naturally susceptible to the truth, saw the light of the gospel at once, and accepted it, because all their lives they were honest and upright, with love in their hearts for God and their fellow men. Sarah, their second daughter, the subject of this sketch, was born January 12, 1845, at Packington, Leicestershire, England. She was twelve years old when she and her older sister "Betsy" accepted the gospel, in September, 1857. To avoid persecution, the - elders under cover of darkness, took them to Coloton, three miles from their home and baptized them. A mob gathered, however, 
 atid boasted of what they would do, but no harm came to them other than they were forced to listen to the vile language of the mob. Later that evening they met at the home of one of the Saints and were confirmed. Here many powerful testimonies were borne, and a spiritual feast enjoyed that left its impression upon the lives of these two young women. She received her elementary education while in England. At the age of six, her grandmother, who was a specialist in making wool goods, taught her to make thumbs for woolen mittens and tops to babies' bootees, using a flat hook which was very difficult to. Use. She often received scoldings for soiling them, as her SARATL ANDREWS BATLEY tiny hands often did. Being a member of the Baptist church, she was required to memorize numberless passages of scripture, receiving prizes for memorizing the greatest number. In the Summer of 1860, this family left their old home and dear friends to gather with the Saints. Sarah was then a girl of fifteen years. It almost broke her heart to part from her dear friend and chum,, Mary Granger. Being of a bright and sunny disposition, however, she looked on the bright side and subNe SARAH ANDREWS BAILEY 351 ipe"ged her heartaches in comforting. Others. From Liverpool the family set sail in the sailing vessel, William Tapscott. They were six weeks on the ocean in an over- "crowded ship. The mother _ and sister were ill the entire voyage, and the cooking and care of the invalids rested upon Sarah's young shoulders. Doing the cooking for the family on the ship was difficult as only one stove was used for the entire company. Her life was miraculously preserved while on deck. Hanging out the family washing, the ship rocked and swung her over the side of the vessel and as it launched back, she secured her footing and was saved from the watery grave. — The family landed in New York and took train to Winterquarters. There they were met by Thomas Wright, an uncle, and crossed the plains in Brigham H. Young's ox team company, composed mostly of freighters. Sarah walked the entire way from Winterquarters to Nephi, driving calves and the extra oxen. _ They arrived in Nephi, September 16, 1860, tired, footsore and weary, with no home to go to. The home of their uncle was too small to accommodate them. The father, mother and small children slept in a wagon all winter, while Sarah's first night in Zion she slept in a corn crib. The next day she went to work and worked for six weeks for a pair of shoes which were too large for her. She was then dismissed by the woman because the man of the house thought she was indispensable to his happiness. Father Andrews' family, after much effort, bought a one room adobe house with a dirt roof. There was: practically no furniture. They slept on the floor and the fire-place and the hake skillet was their stove and cooking utensil, but it was "Home, Sweet Home" to them. Later that season, Sarah met Langley A. Bailey at the home of her uncle, Thomas Wright. When asked for his first impression of Sarah, Langley said: "She certainly looked good to me the first time I saw her, and what's more, I've loved her more every day since. When she marched in the parade July 24, 1861, wearing a beautiful white dress she had brought from England, and a, wreath of flowers on her curly head, I was completely won." They were married November 17, 1861, by the uncle at ise home they first met. A new life was opening before them, full of care and responsibility, as pioneer life always is, but with stout, courageous hearts, they looked undaunted, full of faith in the future. They lived with Father and Mother Andrews for six years. When their first child was born, the roof of the house leaked and water dripped onto the bed where the mother and child lay. When this child was six months old, he died. From her only white dress, brought from England, she fashioned with her own hands its: burial clothes. That fall their only cow died and the Indians 
 killed one of their oxen with a poison arrow. Through all these discouragements their faith remained firm., - When William, their second child, was two years old. They traveled six days by ox team to Salt Lake City in extremely cold weather to get their blessings in the old Endowment House. This was in December, 1865. Their first home was a blue adobe house, located on the same lot where their present home now stands. Here their third child was born. When he was only a day old, Sarah's husband was called to guard the town from the Indians. Not returning that night, the young wife lay in suspense, not knowing whether her husband was scalped or not, as she could hear the yelps of the Red Men. Sarah Andrews Bailey was the mother of twelve children of her own, and a wonderful mother she is! Her constant petition has been: "Father, order all my footsteps; So direct my daily way That in following me, my children May not ever go astray." Is it any wonder that she added others to her flock that needed a real mother's care? One who was proud to call her mother was the late Bishop Thomas H. Blackburn of Brigham City. In a letter to her he said: "Dear Mother: I want to say to you while you are here that my _love for my-mother is no greater than my love for you. It is true my mother brought me into this world, and did what she could for me, but at the time when I came into your home I lived there as one of your own boys. You were a great help to me by your loving kindness and anxiety over me, and helped to make a-man of me. I cannot feel too grateful to you and Father Bailey for it, and I know my father and mother appreciate it; and you have been a mother to others; and they, too, will thank you for it and for all these acts of kindness on your part. You are entitled to the blessings of our heavenly Father and I know he will bless and preserve you and comfort you when you are cast down and discouraged, for he will be near you and that to bless you. Your loving boy, Thomas Blackburn." j She was willing to share all she possessed with other,. She mothered a little German boy whom her son brought home when he returned from a mission as well as four other motherless children. Her husband and four sons fliled foreign missions. When her husband was away on his mission, she, with the help of her sons, built a home they had planned together.' She also cared for eight children during this time. This busy mother was a member of the Relief Society from 1869. She was'an active relief teacher for more than thirty-five years. She was also a member of the first Old Folks' Committee in Nephi and continued in active Church service until 1919, when she resigned on account of poor health. She has enter- ° SARAH ANDREIWS BAILEY 353 tained numerous Church authorities and missionaries in her home. Besides, she has fed and clothed the homeless, and many immigrants who came there. Since her family were all grown, she spent two winters in California, also attending the World's Fair in San Francisco, and visiting her son while in training at Camp Lewis, Washington. In November, 1926, she, with her husband and descendants, celebrated their sixty-fifth wedding anniversary. Sarah is the mother of twelve children, six sons and six daughters, seven of whom are still living. There are also forty grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Discouragements have come to her, but her great faith has prevailed, and prosperity has smiled upon her and brought many comforts of life. She clasped duty firmly by the hand and with love by her side she has marched bravely down through the years. Her friends are a legion and to her children she is a divine gift and they sing with the poet: "God thought to give the sweetest thing In his almighty power To earth; and deeply pondering What it should be—one hour In fondest joy and love of heart Out-weighing every other, He moved the gates of Heaven apart, And gave to earth—a mother!" Life's Measure By Bessie E, Redding Give us more of true living— Just loving and giving Of comfort and cheer. O, why all this fretting And always forgetting Our mission here? Life is full to the measure Of infinite pleasure In service sincere.