The Lament of the Spinning Wheel By Grace Ingles Frost Time was when I stood not idle, Save when near the ingle nook; I was set away at close of day, By a fair-faced maid who took Much pride in her wheel; methinks I feel The touch of her nimble fingers, As my spokes whirled round with cherry sound, From early morn until were shorn Day's shining locks at the even. Must my hours now be useless? Must I stand in an attic old, With moth and rust, grown gray with dust, Until at length IJ am sold As a thing of naught? And ne'er a thought For the maid who spun, one after one, The threads for her nuptial cloths, while rose An ecstasy for the days to be When my wheel turned right merrily? Oh, for the olden, golden hours, When brightly hearth-fires burned With heartsome cheer for each creature near, And the wanderer ne'er was turned From the door away but implored to stay And take from the board his fill! On the stairs below, a step grown slow, Then the attic door swings wide. Old friend of mine, alas! Has time Thus robbed your face of its beauteous grace? Must we abide now side by side Like words on an age-sered page? —— ae HARRIET ANN GRACE PYPER Harriet Ann Grace Pyper The Pianeeribaby Girl of Nephi, Utah By Ramona Wilcox Cannon "Hard times, hard times, come again no more." The words of that song were on the lips of the last generation, and still live as a prayer in our own hearts. We spend most of our waking hours, in fact, battling against the bogeys of privation, sacrifice, hardship. Yet when we come into the presence of our Pioneer men and women, and feel the strong, quiet sense of mastery over life that is in them, and see the light of unfailing 'courage in their eyes, we are constrained to pause and wonder about that matter of hard times. For these Pioneers are the products of ceaseless labor, self-sacrifice, ever-present danger, and an idealism that 
 placed the spirit before the flesh. And we who come after them can but feel the greatness, the victory of their lives. Sister Harriet Ann Grace Pyper is one of these typical Pioneer women. Uncomplainingly she goes about living a useful and industrious life. She gives a laugh rather than a tear to the old memories of hardships. She has passed through the sorrows of bereavement, losing children and husband; yet her face is pleasant. Tt still has the look of comparative youth, and shows in its expression the indomitable will that towered above her frail physical strength, and carried her through experiences that taxed both body and soul to the uttermost. The parents of Sister Pyper were Isaac Grace and Elizabeth Williams Grace of Liverpool. The father was a shipbuilder, the mother a tailoress. Before their marriage they were both members of the choir in their Church. One. Day when they were walking out together, they stopped where a crowd had gathered, and heard a "Mormon" Elder preach the Gospel. They were impressed and in time both joined the Church. A portion of the memories of Sister Pyper's childhood is dedicated to the stories told by her parents of their journey to Zion. With three young children they faced the dangers of the mighty Atlantic in a small sailing vessel, the Ellen. More than three months they heaved and tossed on the great ocean, and during that time, they, who had given up all ties of home and friends to journey to a faraway land for the sake of the Gospel, were tested with a bitter trial. Their baby became ill, and instead of recovering, sickened more and more until death came at last, and the baby had to be dressed and wrapped in canvas, and with a short service, lowered to a grave in mid-ocean. Following the usual route, the Grace family landed at New Orleans, and sailed up the Mississippi. They were comparatively well provided for and once with the Saints, were able to purchase a covered wagon, cows, two good yoke of oxen and an ample supply. Of provisions for traveling across the plains. Even so, Sister Grace, weary and ill with the burden of a new life, found the journey hard enough to endure.. Altogether, they spent nine months coming from Liverpool to the valley. Then, Pioneers in the truest sense of the word, they moved yet farther onward, south to Nephi, and were the first family to settle there. They were soon joined by a group of families, and at once the men engaged in building homes, working' several together, first 6n one house, then on another. From October until Christmas time, Sister Grace, in her delicate state of health, knew no other home than a wagon-box. The men worked feverishly to finish the Grace home by Christmas day. Although they could not entirely complete the structure, that comprised only one room, and was put together of frozen adobes, they felt that