Mrs. Hart Goes to Canada A luncheon was given to Mrs. Lalene H. Hart at the MarianLois Lunch Rooms, on East First South, prior to her departure for Canada. The table decorations were especially beautiful, con- EDITQRTAL. 339 sisting as they did of a large basket of blue and pink flowers that shed brightness and color in all directions. After the luncheon the Board Members retired to the parlors above the dining room where they took turns in reading tributes to Mrs. Hart. At the close of the program President Clarissa Smith Williams presented a gift to Mrs. Hart on behalf of the Board. The afternoon was enjoyable in every particular and gave all members an opportunity to express to Mrs. Hart appreciation for her valued labors. "We shall miss her greatly and feel the need of her services many times," said President Williams, in the course of her remarks, "yet we know that in the new field to ' which she is called she will be very helpful." Those who listened to Mrs. Hart's address at the conference realize that she has the spirit of her calling. She goes with the best wishes of the Board with which she is intimately connected and with the good will and faith and prayers of all Relief Society workers, we are assured. Much credit is due to the committee, consisting of Mrs. Louise Y. Robinson, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, that had the luncheon in charge. Prizes for a Short Play The Improvement Era offers a prize of $40 for the best oneact play. The decision of the judges will be final. The subject may center around: 1. Any gospel theme, or pioneer experience; 2. The M. I. A. Work; 3. Outdoor subjects_—Fathers and Sons' Outing, Scouting, etc. The offer is open to all. Manuscripts must be in the hands ~ - of the editor of the Improvement Era on or before the first day of October, 1927. The play should be unsigned and accompanied by a sealed envelope containing the name and address of the author and the title of the play. The range of the subjects may be as broad as the work of the M. I. A. Organization; it need not be confined to the foregoing suggestions, but the theme should be consistent with and relevant to M. I. A. Standards and work. The play winning the prize is to become the property of the Improvement Era. All other manuscripts will be returned or arrangements made for their purchase. The Era printed the "Unequal Yoke in 1925. See this number for "The Rescue, the winner in 1926. What will be the title and who the winner in 1927? The 24th of July, 56 Years Ago By Ellen L. Jakeman The citizens of a small "Mormon" settlement in Utah were preparing to celebrate the twenty-fourth of July just as it should be done, and for two weeks the town had been enveloped in a warm glow of suppressed excitement and joyous anticipation. At last, the morning of Pioneer Day arrived and the dawn came full of gladness over the Wasatch hills to greet our country's flag hoisted by men who bared their heads in reverence; and the sun seemed to spread his glory in response to the day- - break salvo of twenty-four guns. Two bands paraded the streets in horse-drawn farm wagons dispensing music—the brass band, with gusty blair of lutes and horns, and deep soul-searching throbs of drums. The string band followed with sweeter music, perhaps thin and wistful in the clear air, but no better appreciated than the sonorous brass. Even those born to the sight of the endless stretches of our gray-green sage flats and beetling crags of the rugged hills were so starved for light and color and a concord of sweet sounds, that the scanty display of rather limp bunting, the waving of flags and the semi-uniforms of the bands, pouring out their patriotic and martial strains, reached and tingled the' delighted, youthful population, till their nerves thrilled with exquisite pleasure. These were followed by a wagon load of small boys equipped with tin pans and willow whistles, (a clown band) appropriately crowned with fools' caps and paper. Just in the wake of the legitimate bands and wherever they paused, at the residence of a sufficiently prominent citizen or a good cook, the clown band followed; and as soon as their predecessors had finished, the boys with great enthusiasm beat their tins and whistled deafeningly. There being no place of public entertainment in the town, arrangements had been made for the legitimate bands to breakfast at private homes, and all along the route hospitable women regaled them with sandwiches, doughnuts, beer and cake, all homemade, and the tin band came in for a full share of feasting and appreciation. The citizens poured out of their homes in gala-day attire, leaving their houses wide open behind them, so far as locks and bars were concerned. The grand parade for which so sae preparation had been made, both publicly and secretly, was formed about ten o 'clock on the principal street. CELEBRATING THE TWENTY-FOURTH OF JULY 341 First. A representation of