[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
for  her  son's  family.    This  was  the  on  the  snow-covered  front  lawn,  the 
last  possible  day  she  could  mail  the  man  turned  back,  opened  the  gate 
package  and  be  sure  of  its  getting  and   started   up   the  path.     Before 
to  Cleveland  on  time.     No  reason  Mrs.  Colts  left  the  window,  she  had 
why   she   couldn't  have   got   those  time  to  note,  with  a  vague  disquie- 
mittens  for  Freddy  knitted  long  ago,  tude,  that  there  was  something  oddly 
or  the  white  party  stole  for  Lucille,  familiar  about  his  stride, 
or  the  Argyle  socks  for  big  Fred.  She  snapped  on  the  porch  light 
Certainly,     she     thought     ruefully,  and  opened  the  door.    The  man  was 
she'd  had  plenty   of   time   on  her  just  reaching  out  to  press  the  bell, 
hands  this  fall.  but  when  he  saw  her  he  put  his 
She  took  off  her  wraps  and  was  hand  up  to  his  hat  instead,  swept  it 
about  to  sit  down  in  the  chair  by  off  and  stood  there,  silver-haired  and 
the   window   as    usual.      Suddenly,  smiling.    ''Alice!"  he  said  quietly.

THE  CHRISTMAS  CARDS 
733 
Mrs.  Colts  stared  at  him.  '7^^^^ 
John  Roberts!"  she  exclaimed  at 
last.  ''Why,  I  thought  you  were.  .  . ." 
she  laughed  hysterically  and  pointed 
to  the  box  in  his  hand.  ''I  thought 
you  were  another  Christmas  card 
salesman.  I  was  just  about  to  be 
soft-hearted  again  and  buy  some 
more  that  I  couldn't  possibly  use." 
John  Roberts  chuckled.  "Vm 
glad,  though,  you  bought  those  you 
did,  Alice.  Otherwise  I  wouldn't 
have  learned  your  whereabouts  again 
after  all  these  years.  I  gathered 
from  the  way  you  signed  the  card 
that  Harry  is.  .  .  ." 
'Tes,"  Mrs.  Colts  said  softly, 
"over  a  year  ago.    It  was  hard.  .  .  ." 
"I  know,"  John  said  gently.  ''My 
Vera,  too,  three  years  ago." 
They  looked  at  each  other  with 
warm  compassion. 
Then  John  Roberts  squared  his 
shoulders.  "If  you'll  allow  me  to 
come  in,"  after  thirty-five  years, 
his  eyes  had  the  same  twinkle, 
"you  can  find  out  what's  really  in 
that  box." 
"Of  course,  John."  Mrs.  Colts 
stepped  back  apologetically.  "My 
goodness,  I'm  so  surprised  I'm 
completely  forgetting  my  manners. 
Come  in  and  take  your  coat  off." 
"This  is  a  pleasant  room!"  John 
exclaimed,  looking  around  him  at 
the  book-lined  shelves,  the  easy 
chairs,  the  open  hearth,  the  warm 
lamplight. 
"Yes,  it  is,"  Mrs.  Colts  found  her- 
self agreeing  heartily.  It  did  seem 
to  have  a  glow  about  it  that  she 
hadn't  been  aware  of  for  a  long  time. 
"Now,  perhaps  we  could  build  a 
little  fire  in  the  fireplace— the  wood's 
right  here  in  the  basket,"  she  told 
him  gaily. 
"An  excellent  idea.  That  was  a 
cold  walk  up  from  the  depot,"  John 
said,  smiling. 
"By  the  way,"  Mrs.  Colts  paused 
in  the  door,  on  her  way  to  the  kitch- 
en, "you  said  you'd  tell  me  what  was 
in  that  box." 
John,  already  on  his  knees  before 
the  fireplace,  looked  back  at  her  over 
his  shoulder.  "Peanut  brittle,"  he 
said,  grinning.  "Remember  when  I 
was  courting  you,  I  used  to  bring 
you  pounds  of  the  stuff— couldn't 
afford  chocolates." 
Mrs.  Colts  smiled  mistily.  "Yes, 
I  remember,"  she  said  softly  and 
started  down  the  hall  with  a  lighter 
step  than  had  been  heard  in  that 
house  for  many  a  day. 
'uJefinition 
Bessie  I.  Peterson 
The  meaning  of  Thanksgiving? 
The  fragrant,  spicy  scent  of  pumpkin  pie, 
The  burnished  gloss  of  turkey  bursting  with  complacent  pride, 
The  gleam  of  silver,  gossamer  the  shine  of  candles 
Burning  side  by  side  on  cherished  linen, 
The  time  for  fun  and  laughter,  warmth  of  cozy  fireside. 
The  gratitude  for  peace  expressed  in  quiet  thanks  to  God — 
All  this  is  Thanksgiving!

Shopping    LJesterday 
Elaine  Reiser 
THE  community  general  store 
in  grandfather's  day  stood  as 
a  monument  to  a  man's  will- 
ingness to  serve  his  eommunity.  As 
the  village  storekeeper,  he  invested 
his  money  in  stocks  of  merchandise 
—dried  fruits,  nuts,  cookies,  buttons, 
parasols,  moustache  curlers,  wash- 
boards, sunbonnets,  and  medicines 
—to  have  on  hand  for  his  faithful 
customers.  Here  was  a  man  willing 
to  invest  his  money  in  hundreds  of 
items  of  merchandise  and  to  wait 
and  wait  until  his  customers  wanted 
what  he  had  and  were  willing  to  pay 
him  for  it. 
Though  the  general  store  of  yes- 
terday is  not  to  be  found  in  many 
places,  one  such  store  has  been  re- 
produced in  the  Sons  of  the  Utah 
Pioneers  Village  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah.  This  store  was  owned  and 
managed  by  Mr.  A.  Warr  of  Kamas, 
Utah,  until  his  death.  At  that  time 
the  store  became  the  property  of 
his  niece  and  nephew  who  were  the 
beneficiaries  of  his  will.  However, 
they  themselves  were  along  in  years 
and  had  no  interest  in  running  a 
general  store.  They  closed  it  and 
had  the  doors  and  windows  barri- 
caded. 
It  was  in  this  condition  that  Mr. 
Horace  A.  Sorenson  found  the  store 
in  1953.  After  he  opened  the  win- 
dows and  doors,  photographs  of  the 
interior  were  taken  in  order  that  the 
store  could  be  reproduced  authen- 
tically in  the  Pioneer  Village,  3000 
Connor  Street  (2150  East),  Salt 
Lake  City.  Kamas  residents  who 
once  traded  with  Mr.  Warr  and  who 
have  visited  the  Village  testify  to 
the  store's  authenticity. 
Page  734 
The  store  was  the  center  of  com- 
munity life,  as  evidenced  by  the  pot- 
bellied stove  in  the  center  of  the 
room  surrounded  by  hard,  wooden 
chairs  and  a  checkerboard,  to  add  to 
the  convenience  and  relaxation  of 
the  customers.  Within  the  small 
store,  slightly  larger  than  an  average 
American  living  room,  are  combined 
a  men's  and  ladies'  ready-to-wear, 
hardware,  grocery,  apothecary,  toy, 
and  notions  store. 
The  goods  on  the  shelves  are  just 
as  the  shopkeeper  left  them,  with 
prices  marked  and  ledger  entries 
made  for  all  products.  A  variety  of 
grinders  are  priced  at  1 5c,  cuff  links, 
50c,  stuffed  toys  and  wooden  wag- 
ons 15c  to  40c,  checker  sets  10c,  silk 
and  gold  threaded  evening  bags 
$1.50,  ladies  hose  15c,  a  yard  of  silk 
19c. 
As  a  trained  apothecary,  Mr.  Warr 
offered  veterinary  supplies,  camphor, 
alum,  and  a  special  of  glycerated 
asafetida— a  bag  to  be  worn  around 
the  neck  to  kill  all  germs  and  there- 
fore ensure  good  health. 
Within  five  steps  of  the  pharmacy 
are  complete  supplies  for  the  horse 
and  buggy,  including  whips,  carriage 
bumpers,  axle  grease,  and  horse- 
shoes. The  leather-handled  buggy 
whips  are  marked  at  50c. 
For  the  ladies,  ''gay-nineties" 
bathing  suits,  navy  blue  with  white 
trim,  hang  at  one  end  of  the  store. 
An  ample  red  flannel  nightgown 
with  matching  cap  waits  to  be  sold 
for  a  few  pounds  of  butter  or  a  leg 
of  pork.  High-button  shoes  and 
middy  blouses  are  still  in  their 
boxes,  waiting  for  stylish  customers.
