[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Lindsey]
[The National Tuberculosis Association Christmas Seals Dorothea M. Lindsey]

Page 741 _ Live an Learn Forever sive and Learn forever! HIS life is for serving and learning: so is the next. Part of life's lessons we learn by failing first and trying over. Some call it trial and error; another name for it is experience. A certain amount of trial and error we must accept. It's good for us. But there's a short-cut to learning, shorter than trial and error, which each of us should try to find. We should seek this short-cut through thoughtPage 742 LIVE AND LEARN FOREVER! I 743 ful study, from the experiences of others, by the reading of good books, by going to school. Most folks call this kind of learning "education." The chief purpose of education is to prepare us to live happily here and hereafter, and to make the world better for others who follow. The scriptures tell us why: "We are saved no faster than we gain knowledge;" "The glory of God is intelligence." 'These lofty concepts of the place of education in the lives of people are the special incentives which spur us on in our search for knowledge. It has been said even more plainly: "... If a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come" (D. & C. 130:19). Yes, and in this life, too. For knowledge here is also power—the power to produce the essentials of healthful, happy, comfortable living; the power to govern wisely and effectively; the power to avoid some of life's unnecessary pains and frustrations which come to the ignorant or unadjusted; the power to recognize and appreciate truth and teach it to others. These are some of the aims and products of learning and living— now and forever. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF ~>- Winter Aspens Elsie McKinnon Strachan White limbed and graceful, they shared June's sun With the blue larkspur and the columbine; With lupine and monkswood and wild flax they dwelt, Blue marked their carpet in petaled design. The deer came to them on bounding hooves, And rushing waters sang them a song, The wind favored them with his cool, blue breeze— High in the hills their voices belonged. But hurrying autumn waved a swift wand, Turning each leaf to glittering gold; And, heavy upon the stem of time, Each pendant coin swung low... Lost hold. Now winter whiteness wears the penciled lace Of trellised aspen boughs held high; While slender and naked branches trace The pledge of spring on a frozen sky. Recipes cfrom the Spanish-American lTlission Submitted by Nina N. Bowman ENVEULTOS DE GALLINA (CHICKEN) Adela Cabrera, San Antonio, Texas 2 Ib. Chicken 1 tbsp. Butter Boil the chicken, remove the meat from the bones, and grind. Add the butter to the ground meat. Sauce: 1% Ibs. Tomatoes ¥% Ib. Onions Y, tbsp. Salt % tbsp. Pimiento ¥% Ib. Shortening I 1% doz. Tortillas Cut medium size onions into small pieces. Crush tomatoes in the colander, add pimiento and salt, and mix. Season the chicken with sauce, and save some of the sauce to pour over the tortillas. Heat shortening to moderate heat. Quickly dip tortillas, one at a time, place on platter, and put on each one 1 tbsp. Of chicken and roll the tortilla. Serve hot. Mexican CANDY Pauline Duran, San Antonio, Texas 1 c. Brown sugar 1 tbsp. Butter 2 c. White sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Water 1 Ib. Pecans % tsp. Salt Boil sugar and water until a drop of syrup forms a soft ball when dropped into a glass of cold water. Remove from heat. Add salt, butter, and vanilla. Beat until creamy. Add pecans, drop by spoonfuls on a buttered platter. Arroz (Mexican RIcE) 2 tbsp. Fat _ A green pepper 1 Cc. Taw rice 2 tsp. Salt 1 c. Tomatoes I I 2 tsp. Chili powder 1 small onion 2 c. Water Wash rice well and then dry. Brown raw rice in hot fat and add minced onion, chopped green pepper, salt, chili powder, and tomatoes. Mix well. Add just enough water to cover and then cover with a lid. Allow to simmer until rice is tender, about thirty minutes. Remove the lid to allow mixture to dry. Do not stir after cooking starts. SPANISH CHEESE DIP Louise Turley, San Antonio, Texas Mix % c. Cooked tomatoes with one long green Mexican chili, minced, if a hot dip is desired. If a mild dip is preferred, use one bell pepper instead of the chili. Add ¥, Ib. Of pasteurized cheese which has been melted in double boiler. Mix together. Pour over fritos or tortilla chips. Page 744 RECIPES FROM THE SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION I 745 PLaIn GARNACHAS Louise Turley, San Antonio, Texas Place a thin slice of cheese or grated cheese on a tortilla chip and top with a slice of jalapena pepper. 'Then place in moderate oven to melt. For something different, mix melted cheese with diced chicken, tuna, shrimp, or ripe olives. Serve on tortilla chips or fritos. SouTH OF THE BorpER Drip Louise Turley, San Antonio, Texas 1 avocado I Yc. Celery (chopped) 1 tbsp. Sour pickles (minced) % tsp. Garlic salt 1 tbsp. Green chili pepper (minced) 1 tsp. Paprika salt to taste Cut ripe avocado in half, remove seed and peel. Mash to a pulp and add the remaining ingredients. Mix well. 'This dip should be prepared just before using, as it darkens while standing. It is delicious for dipping potato chips, corn chips, or fritos. EMPANADAS Esther Lopez, San Antonio, Texas Sweet Potato Filling: 26 c. Shortening 2 lbs. Sweet potatoes 2 c. Flour sweeten to taste I 4 tbsp. Water cinnamon to taste 1 tsp. Salt nutmeg to taste Boil sweet potatoes until soft and sweeten to taste. Add cinnamon and nutmeg to give mild flavor. Mash potatoes. Mix with a fork the flour, salt, and shortening. Roll each piece of dough into the size of a saucer. Put 3 tbsp. Of sweet potato filling on each pattie. Fold in middle. Pinch one side with a fork to allow steam to escape. Bake in 450 degree oven for about twenty minutes or until brown. Makes two dozen. MaAcARONI IN TOMATO Esther Rodriguez, Kingsville, Texas 1 box uncut macaroni 1 small can tomato paste 3 tsp. Hot sauce (Louisiana) % onion (finely chopped) ', lb, American cheese "2 ¢. Catsup 3 tbsp. Salt Cook macaroni alone in salted water and then drain. Fry onions until brown, add flour, tomato paste, and catsup. Then add the cheese until you have a gravy. Place in the oven and cook at 350 degrees for twenty minutes. Remove from heat and serve, << Serenity Annie S. W. Gould MID the strife, the unrest of the world, remain serene. Make your own little world beautiful within. Try to keep discordant thoughts away. If surrounded by discord, take it as a testing, try to keep your own outlook peaceful. It is much better for your health if you keep serene. You also help others by keeping yourself at peace. She llatonal Cuboneuosm) ) esate Christmas Seals Dorothea M. Lindsey Associate, Public Relations ITH the 1957 Christmas Seal Sale, the tuberculosis associations enter the second half century of their traditional campaign to raise funds to fight 'TB. In the first half century, the Seal Sale has proved itself an effective means of giving every American an opportunity to contribute to the fight. It has proved an effective means of spreading the truth about TB. While providing the sinews of war for the voluntary 'TB control programs, it has stimulated more and better tax-supported programs. It didn't happen overnight. The first Christmas Seal sale in 1907 raised $3000 for a single project—an experimental open-air hospital in Delaware. In spite of the limited area of the campaign, contnbutions came from distant states and even from Canada. After half a century, the goal is still ahead. Progress has been constant, but sometimes discouragingly slow. 'There have been only a few rapid spurts. 'The development of miniature film equipment for mass X-ray screening brought one such spurt, the discovery of effective drugs for treatment still another. The associations worked—and are still working—for higher standards of community health and welfare. 'They pioneered in the development of effective techniques of education and community organization. 'They pooled their limited research funds for projects aimed at solving the fundamental mysteries of the disease. Like the first Christmas Seal sale, the fifty-first represents hope that TB can be defeated. Even more, it represents a promise. In a few favored spots 'IB can be said to be almost under control. In others, less fortunate, it is still the leading public health problem. Everywhere it is giving ground before the organized team of medical men and laymen, professionals, and volunteers who work under the standard of the DoubleBarred Cross. But the end is not in sight. With one third of the nation infected with tubercle bacilli, the tuberculosis associations will not relax as they go into the second half century. >< Autumn Gift Vesta N. Lukei This hill Is wrapped in green Of pines and tied with gold Of aspens, ribbon-like along A stream. Page 746 MOUNTAIN VISTA NEAR VAIL PASS, COLORADO Where Maples Flame Mabel Law Atkinson "I will return in autumn," so I said, "To see these greening maples crown this hill With a flaming lei."

But always when the chill Fall days returned as years too swiftly sped, I was not free so I could not fulfill The vow I made. My heart in mute lament Longed for wind-music, wild and eloquent, While skeins of geese displayed unerring skill. I could not be denied the joy-ascent To my bright hilltop when the autumn came. My spirit, country-bred, I could not tame To city confines, yet I know content: For though the autumn calls me still the same, My heart has built a hill where maples flame.