[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social | Author: Larson]
Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 11—"As the Twig Is Bent" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, February 25, 1958 Objective: To illustrate how we are influenced by our environment, particularly by the environment of the home. LI E'S experiences touch and mold the heart and soul of man. Each of us is the result of many influences, yet we have common needs and desires. The type of family life we have and how our needs and desires are met, influence what we are. 'The perfection of man can be facilitated through the family. Acceptance of the gospel in its fulness and its wise application will result in the full spiritual growth and development of the individual. A person reared in a home where gospel principles are practiced, adjusts socially, obtains a sense of personal destiny, a thirst for knowledge, and the courage to attempt and a pride in achievement. 'The love and democracy found in such a home develop selflessness, the ability to share, and a desire to care. In this lesson we shall consider the effects of our environment upon us, particularly the environment of the home, in the light of our basic needs. 'The following lesson will demonstrate the personal significance of the family to each age group and how their needs are met through the family. What We Are Each man is an individual, the product of a myriad of varied influences. While all persons have similar endowments and are influenced by similar things, yet each person is single in kind and, therefore, matchless. How we dress, look, talk, move, and think make each of us an individual different from all others. Our physical features and the mental capacity with which we are endowed are determined to a large extent by characteristics inherited through our parents. Much of our behavior, likewise, is influenced by our physical and mental aspects. The health and condition of our bodies, our size, color, strength, sex, intelligence, and other features influence not only our own conduct but the response of others, which, in turn, affects us. This illustrates the complex nature of human behavior. I While the physical man is important, yet the fine points of difference come from our environment. The world about us is a part of us, for it influences our behavior patterns. 'The family circle, our friends, our teachers, and the other people with whom we come in contact; where we live, what is said and written and taught, all influence what we are. World events, the kind of community in which we live, our government, our income, Page 77/3 774 what we have—all produce satisfaction or anxiety, in varying degrees, which color our actions. That part of our environment having the greatest influence is the home. It is in the home that personality characteristics are indelibly stamped; it is there that the most good or harm can be done. 'The way a person feels largely influences how he thinks and acts. 'The interpersonal relationships with family members largely determine how we feel about people and things. Our feelings tend to make us do that which to us is pleasant, satisfying, comfortable, and safe, and also tend to make us avoid the opposite. 'The deep grooves of habit and attitude, acquired through often-encountered situations and our reactions to them, are, in fact, a part of us. Parents have the responsibility to teach basic virtues. (See Lesson 8.) Each President of the Church has taught the importance and _necessity of the individual gaining knowledge. "The glory of God is intelligence" has been embedded in the heart of every Latter-day Saint. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith, speaking to the saints in the Grove at Nauvoo, observed, "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge " (D. H. C. IV:588). Knowledge of every nature, technical or general, of good or evil, of people or principles or things, is an important, integral part of the individual, for this is his source of reference in decision making. 'To illustrate, the child whose basic knowledge concerning coins is limited to identification by name, when offered his choice of a nickel or a dime, would likely choose the nickel. A child having knowledge of the value of money, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 when given such a choice, would readily take the dime. The difference lies in the background of knowledge upon which the child calls in making his decision. Acquisition of knowledge is not enough. It must be evaluated as acquired. How we evaluate depends, again, upon our atmosphere of people and ideas. 'The ability to decide properly is the power by which we grow and develop. When our storehouse of knowledge is sound and when we have learned properly to evaluate that knowledge, we then are in a position to make "decisions of character" which can raise us to the greatest heights. Fortunately, man can carve his own destiny. He can control his own environment, at least in part, and with this control he can make a success or failure of his life. By his ingenuity he can enlist the help of other persons, and if he lives for it, he is aided by the Holy Ghost and our Heavenly Father. (See Lesson 8.) Our Basic Needs) The yearnings and desires of all persons fall into similar categories. How these needs are met and our reaction to them somehow leave an imprint upon our behavior. Indlvidual needs may be divided broadly into three categories: (1) Physiological needs, that is, those relating to a healthy functioning of our bodies; (2) The need to grow intellectually, socially, and spiritually; (3) The need to love and to be loved. 1. Physiological Needs: One of the strongest human impulses ls man's desire to survive. This desire prompts him to seek food, clothing, LESSON DEPARTMENT and shelter. How these needs are met, even from the first days of life, influences the course of life. That is to say, if our experiences in meeting these needs are pleasant, we react pleasantly and favorably; while stress and anxiety in the process leave a negative mark upon the actions of man. Some of us need specialized attention to preserve and prolong our lives. Good physical health is an important ingredient to good mental health. While physiological needs are important, and while a minimum must be met for the continuance of life itself, yet lavish or quantitative "trimmings' are unnecessary to produce a Lincoln. More often than not extravagance proves to be a disadvantage to the individual. 2. The Need to Grow: Most individuals are possessed of a desire to achieve intellectually; all desire to be socially accepted, and many recognize the need for spiritual growth. Latter-day Saints know this to be the purpose of mortality. A. Growing Intellectually: Man's hankering for accomplishment has brought forth principles and truths which have revolutionized our daily lives. Scientific discoveries and their applications have given us conveniences unheard of a few years ago. 'The fight against disease and illness has made tremendous gains. Man's creative ability has produced pleasant and interesting things ranging from hieroglyphics to modern skyscrapers, music, sculpture, painting, and all the discoveries of science. For proper intellectual development each person needs opportunity to learn, along with 775 reassuring encouragement to persist in seeking knowledge. B. Growing Socially: 'The eagerness with which we pursue social acceptance illustrates the magnitude of this basic need. Our adventure through life, in relation to our family and home, spans the extremes from infancy and complete dependence upon the home to becoming an adult and relatively independent. Maturity is arriving at a healthy compromise between these extremes. As we venture forth from our homes, figuratively speaking, we go forth with confidence, if we know we can always return to a home where there is love and _ security. This is true of all family members from the youngest to the oldest. Our social ambitions are met when we have status with our associates, a sense of being a person whose worth is recognized, and a selfesteem which enables us to meet situations appropriately according to our age and sex. C. Spiritual Growth: The spirit of man has an innate eagerness to return to God. When _ properly stimulated, he pursues knowledge of God and his ways. He receives satisfaction from embracing characteristics and principles taught in the scriptures. He has a sense of personal accomplishment which pushes him ahead to seek his Heavenly Father further. Spiritual growth does not come automatically, however. Devotion and effort are required here as in other fields. Faith, together with applied effort, results in spiritual growth. Parents can influence the spiritual growth of their children by how they think and act. Family prayer, devotion to Church duties, the parents' favor- 776 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 able regard for Church leaders, and their respect for Deity, all contribute to the spiritual growth of family members. And the Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man_ through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit. And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spint cometh unto God, even the Father (D. & C. 84:46-47). The desire to accomplish gives vision, and having accomplished, we look ahead to new horizons. If this inherent yearning is guided in the right direction it can be a stimulus to perfection. 'The child takes pleasure in learning to read or learning to draw. 'The young man takes pride in being able to run fast or build. A mother's accomplishment may be a happy baby or an obedient child. A man denied the opportunity to grow intellectually, socially or spiritually, becomes frustrated, and this often results in mental illness. A man's dream of tomorrow, sets his compass of life today. 'This is the first step, followed by planning, devotion, and a search for knowledge. 'The result is growth. 3. The Need to Love and to Be Loved: There are few things more important to man than to love and to be loved. Later we shall study this need in more detail. Briefly, love is more important than nutrition. Love is the nourishment of the soul, the concept which reduces to a minimum the distance between people. It is the "common denominator" in the development of a healthy personality through all its stages. 'he personality of a child is shaped by the love of his parents. 'The love that is found in good homes gives children a feeling that all is well. It inspires parents to do for their children and to weather hardship for them and with them. It is the stability of love that helps a child venture forth into the world with confidence. 'The unloved child, starved for affection and the company of others, will actually wither in body and spirit. A child, properly nourished with love and affection, security, and ideals, has been given the "stuff" with which he may succeed. The Parental Influence The home environment is set primarily by the parents. The regard and concern that parents have for one another and for their children is the basis of the home environment. If parents are emotionally stable and secure, they will find that their natural impulses really suggest what is best. In the parent-child relationships having profound effect upon child behavior, there are, broadly speaking, four different types of home environment, although most homes have some attributes of each. 1. Parental Autocracy: In this setting, children are required by force or fear to act precisely as parents decree. 'The child has no opportunity to exercise independent judgment, for all his decisions are made by others. 'The personality of such a child is unstable, withered and weak, often for life. 'The mind, like other body parts, is developed by use. He who is not called upon to think, generally does not develop his ability to think. The home atmosphere created by coercive par- LESSON DEPARTMENT ents does not provide for true love nor the opportunities for growth. Such an atmosphere builds a volcano of resentment which one day may explode. The parent who gives supportive help to his child's judgment-decisions, however, is not an autocratic parent. Helping a child through a consideration of facts to a conclusion, is to the mind what physical support is to the toddler learning to walk. 2. Parental Submission: The child is "king" in this type of home. He makes decisions and exercises his free agency without parental interference. Somehow his parents believe he will turn out best, if they let him be his natural self. Unfortunately, they have adbicated what is likely their most important role, 1. €., building within the child a solid basis of evaluated knowledge of right and wrong, and ideals to which he can refer in the exercise of his free agency. It was never intended that free agency be exercised in a vacuum. Children who come from an environment where parents have adopted a "hands off" policy often are bullies, are disliked, and have little consideration for the rights or feelings of others. This environment often stems from the parents' own basic insecurity. Here again, the child is denied the opportunities for intellectual growth and social adjustment because the supportive help is missing. 'The spiritual growth of these family members is also stilted. The parent who chooses this easy way is cruelly kind, but fails to provide the love a child needs for stability. 3. Parental Confusion: 'These par- 777 ents alternately rule and mis-rule. They teach their children conflicts from what they say and from what they do. They lack consistency in their relationships with the child and in their limitations upon him. Parents, although having good intentions, sometimes become absorbed in various activities and thus fail to maintain with their child a consistent relationship. Parents under stress often follow the same course. A child is quick to note the inconsistency of parents and, somehow, takes little security from such a setting. Such a child often does not know what is expected of him, nor the limits within which he is expected to behave. He may easily conclude that his parents and others are unfair. Many cases of vandalism and property destruction come from persons reared in homes of inconsistent parents. 'These parents are the first to point out how they have "taught" their children respect for the rights of others. Unfortunately, a child is not "taught" merely by being "told." No one has taught until someone has learned. Parental confusion often results when one parent does his job properly while the other does not. One may be autocratic and the other submissive. Children from such homes do not always become a half-way compromise between the divergent parental tendencies. Often a child will identify with one parent or the other, generally the parent of the same sex, and to the extent that a child identifies with a parent, his resultant behavior favors such parent. 4. Parental Guidance in Self- 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 Co r') * CHRISTMAS CANTATAS FOR _ LADIES VOICES THREE PART me. CHIMES OF THE HOLY NIGHT— a 1.00 — CHRISTMAS MESSIAH—Handel 1.00 Pe, DAWN OF CHRISTMAS—Nolte 1.00 = MUSIC OF BETHLEHEM—Holton.. 1.00 =. PREPARE HIM ROOM—Hadler 1.00 on SONG OF THE HOLY NIGHT— Witheon 0 cnccccnscesnslldlescscnaae 1.00 a. THIS lS NOEL—Davis 1.25 _— WONDROUS STORY—Kountz.60 TWO PART goed CHILD OF BETHLEHEM—Walter 1.00 oe MUSIC OF BETHLEHEM—Holton.. 1.00 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South I Salt Lake City 11, Utah 1 { I I I i Please send the music indicated above. CL] On Approval LJ Charge Cl] Money Enclosed I I I 1 I { I I { i Perer rrr rrrrrrrrr rr rrr rrr rrr a bt wz a a Q Oo w ~ ity B State 2.0 cc cecccctettcecee eee 1 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO'Salt Lake City 11, Utah Determination: 'The parent in this type of home is aware of his child's basic needs: physiologically, intellectually, spiritually, and socially. Such a parent knows of the child's desire to become independent of the home, and his desire to become a separate individual. Parents must identify and recognize the importance of each step. As the child grows and develops, parents will reassure him of their love and support which he can have in the home, yet they will let him reach out and have experiences which develop him as a responsible adult. His parents instill within him a belief in himself as a person, with confidence in his decisions. 'The child is not forced, yet he is given opportunities to grow intellectually, and he is constantly storing evaluated knowledge to which he can refer in making decisions. Giving a child love and security is not at all inconsistent with teaching him to accept responsibility. 'The child learns fair play if his parents treat him fairly. From his parents he learns to be thoughtful of others and to accept differences without anger. His spirit is fed, and, while he learns of God, he moves toward him in spirit and in fact. Latter-day Saint parents who live the gospel will educate their children so as to prepare them to meet life's situations realistically and constructively. They will develop the judgment and skill of each child to meet whatever may come. 'They will not abandon their role of teaching the child what he should know, nor will they push him or let him fall from the nest of parental influence until his wings are strong. LESSON DEPARTMENT Supplemental References 1. "The Home on the Hill"—Alyce O. Nelson, The Relief Society Magazine, March 1956, page 208. 2. "Citizenship and Self Understanding'—Bonaro W. Overstreet, National Parent-Teacher, December 1956, page 14. 3. "The Need to Know More About Human Growth'—Alfred H. Washburn, M. D., National Parent-Teacher, December 1956, page 24. 4. "Failure Is to Learn On"—Margaret Blair Johnstone, Reader's Digest, December 1956, page 73. 5. "The Controversial Problem of Discipline," Katherine M. Wolf, Ph. D., and Aline B. Auerbach, The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 30 cents per copy. 6. "The Why and How of Discipline," Aline B. Auerbach and Faith Laursen, The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 40 cents per copy. 7. "Marriage Is Now My Career," Mary H. Robinson, The Improvement Era, March 1956, page 148. 8. "Back to What Woodshed?" Justine Wise Polier, Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 232, Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 East 38th Street, New York 16, New York, 25 cents per copy. G. "The Part of Parents," Richard L. Evans, The Improvement Era, January 1957, page 36. 10. "Need for Belonging," Antone K. Romney, The Improvement Era, May lp? Papen 324- 11. "The Lengthened Shadow," Richard L. Evans, The Improvement Era, May 1957> Page 332. 12. "A Child of Any Age Is a Challenge to Parents," Antone K. Romney, The Improvement Era, February 1957, page 84. 13. "How Early Does Discipline Begin?"' George Sheviakov, National Parent-Teacher, February 1957, page 4. 14. "Becoming Sensitive to Children's Fears," Jewel Goldberg, Dolores Heidman, Darwin North, Doris Patterson, Ferne Smidderks, and Ann Younger, National Parent-Teacher, February 1957, page 22. 779 RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS 331X, 332X, 333X The origin and content of the Doctrine and Covenants by sections. The main ideas of this book of scripture are emphasized. Instructor: Roy W. Doxey. A Course for Theology Instructors and Other Students of Religion ADULT EDUCATION AND EXTENSION SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah City and State [.. Ee Please send me, without cost, Brigham Young University's HOME STUDY CATALOG 780 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music (0. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PLAN LIGHT LIVING Live Better Electrically with FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 15. 'Six Sure-Fire Ways to Raise a Heel at the Wheel," Paul Jones, National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page 10. Questions for Discussion 1. What are some of the basic emotional, intellectual, spiritual, and physical needs? How do the home and family help satisfy these needs? 2. In which category are we most successful? Where do we fail most frequently? } 3. Why is it important for parents to take an individual interest in the "growing up" process of their children? Why must they be well adjusted themselves? Less Shan Love Eva Willes Wangsgaard Friendship should not need a chain To hold the love it shares; Love is always struggling free, Breaking nets and snares. Friendship held too close becomes A prison and a pain. Seldom does the spirit rise Higher than its chain. Friend, if you would hold my love, Leave the door ajar. Friendship that is free will stay, Happy where you are. She Old BaseBurner Thelma Ireland We sat around a base-burner With jolly, fat red cheeks; We stretched our feet up to its warmth, Not minding winter weeks. There was no central heating then, So in the winter weather, Though we might wish to be alone, We had to be together. We had to learn to give and take, We got used to each other And found we liked the company Of sister and of brother. And so the family bond grew strong Within that sheltering cove, Encased in warmth and family love Around that glowing stove. NETTING SUPPLIES NEEDLES — PATTERNS INSTRUCTION BOOKS For Price List—Write or Call THE ARTCRAFT PRESS QAFT Pp ~S THE FOE: en Z X Weppinc "zZ = AN NOUNCEMENTS AND SUPPLIES PRINTED-ENGRAVED: EMBOSSED THE BEST FOR LESS SMoing Arce 21% EAST 2"°SOUTH Salt Lake City = = I I S Hawaii Leave Salt Lake City November 3, 1957, sail on the lovely new Matsonia, Sister Ship to the beautiful Lurline, November 4th. New Zealand Temple Dedication tour sails from San Francisco on the fabulous Mariposa April 2, 1958. Note: you will be delighted to know that Mrs. Matthew Cowley, who lived in and traveled throughout the South Pacific during the years her husband, the late Matthew Cowley, presided over that mission, will conduct this tour. Europe The definite date for the dedication of the temple in England is not yet known, but we shall have tours to Europe in June, July, and August of 1958. For further information write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 ® BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles..0.. 35 150 to 300 miles 2 22.39 300 to 600 miles 0.00000. 45 600 to 1000 miles 2.000. 54 1000 to 1400 miles 0.64 1400 to 1800 miles 76 Over 1800 miles secnee OD Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES New Classes Begin Soon Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah Page 781 THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS GIFT (Confirms. Jomple Work Opens the Prophecies. And distou Reveals Jrue Ysracl! ONLY nclor. R ONLY $275 Oe BE anil "275 IT'S THE IDEAL XMAS GIFT FOR = [y= (DETACH AND MAIL) Oe from ° EARL W. HARMER, Publisher We 1177 Yale Ave. Salt Lake City 5, Utah Please send --.2.---002- copies to me. Yo W) Famly PRICE $2.75 POSTPAID [ulgSR -ceee.. C] Please send C. O. D. Enclosed Check or Money Order Your Bost Frucnd Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Four Mrs. Ruta May Fox Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Hitpa ER1cKson Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Lucy Ann HensHaw MartTIN Petersburg, Virginia Ninety-five Mrs, AMELIA EvizaBpetu Hatcu JACKSON Ogden, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Exviza I'.. Netson Glendale, California Ninety Mrs. Lavina BASINGER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marcaret NIELSEN ANDERSEN Bear River City, Utah Mrs. Harriett P. S. Crawson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Janet Jones McDonatp Hazen Salt Lake City, Utah Wisdom Lucille R. Perry My father read from Tennyson, He searched out beauty's every guise, And when his rough hands closed the book He gazed at it through tear-filled eyes. Then, in the hollowness of youth, I comprehended not at all, Why tears would rise to fill his eyes And slowly on his worn cheek fall. But many storms since then have filled With salty drops that empty place, And made a spring of tenderness That overflows upon my face.... Remembering, with heart more wise, I understand his tear-filled eyes. GIFTS GIFTS GIFTS Make Pembroke's Your Christmas Headquarters! Mail Orders are promptly handled. 24 East Broadway SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Invest in Yourself Discover an Exciting New Hobby with the HAMMOND SPINET Organ Relax — Have Fun! A Small Deposit will assure Christmas Delivery Convenient Budget Pay Plan ACT NOW! Full Information From GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Salt Lake—74 So. Main Ogden—2546 Washington Blvd. Provo—57 No. University Page 783 rom Tear and Sar I am writing to let you know how much I appreciate Dorothy S. Romney's serial "The Bright Star' (concluded in the September Magazine). In my estimation it is one of the best that has appeared in our fine Magazine. I also liked -Elsie McKinnon Strachan's frontispiece poem "Country Neighbors." It is graphic, and the last two lines are intriguing. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah I loved Mabel Atkinson's story "For This I Have Yearned" in the September issue of the Magazine, and I think the world needs the lesson contained in Rosa Lee Lloyd's excellent story ""Uhe Heavenly Bonus." I very much liked the editorial "Her Choice" by Marianne C. Sharp. The poem "My Husband's Hands" by Marie Ricks touched my heartstrings. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho The lesson material and lesson department are excellent. My special enjoyment is Shakespeare and the renewal of my acquaintance with his masterful dramas.... The article "Life Is a Journey," by Cleopha Jensen, in the July issue is especially inspiring, and the June issue contains a helpful and delightful article, "Help Yourself to. Happiness,' by Frances C. Yost. The ten points of the guide to happiness are really worthwhile.... The article on the Samoan Mission by Preston Nibley is truly interesting and informational and the pictures are scenic treasures of enchanting beauty. —Emma M. Gardner Long Beach, California I would like to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, especially now that we have moved where there are very few Latter-day Saint people. I look forward to the Magazine each month. There are so many things in it that are helpful in my everyday life. —Geraldine Court Castlegar British Columbia Canada Page 784 I especially liked the September frontispiece poem "Country Neighbors," by Elsie McKinnon Strachan. I could see it and smell it, and feel it, as I read, and I have read it several times. A_ lovely, lovely poem! And what a homey, powerful, and beautiful poem is ""My Husband's Hands," by Marie Ricks. "Tour of Pennsylvania" grips the heart and makes us know nothing is ever lost. I appreciate the editorial "Her Choice," by Marianne C. Sharp, and am grateful for the good it will do. What a lovely tribute to a father is found in: "My Father—A True Leader," the tribute to President David O. McKay written by Emma Rae McKay Ashton. Every line of the Magazine is good to read. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I enjoy The Relief Society Magzine very much and wait for its coming each month. I especially enjoy the poems... And Edna Day's article '""A Nursery Will Be Maintained" in the June issue. Jennie Brown Rawlins' article in the same issue "Mother Had Seven Girls" started me wishfully reminiscing about my happy childhood. After reading another of Frances Yost's wonderful stories, "Society Sonnets" (August 1957), I wanted to sit right down and try my luck with a sonnet. I'm going out to wash the dinner dishes now, and I'm going to see what I can do with a little idea I've had wandering around in my brain like a little orphan for quite awhile now. Maybe I can catch him and put him down on paper. —Phyllis Chapman Idaho Falls, Idaho I have been a reader of The Relief Society Magazine since I was a small girl and have enjoyed it these many years. I was thrilled to find in the June issue the pictures sent in by Sister Taylor ("A Relief Society Gleaning'"') of officers of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, especially as one, Elizabeth H. Goddard, is my great-grandmother. It is the first time I have found any record of her Church activities, and I will treasure the account and copy it in my family history. —Gladys W. Savage Sumatra, Montana WHAT FINER GIFT THAN een t — aes PATHWAYS TO wes HAPPINESS DAVID O. McKAY Compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay President McKay has devoted a lifetime to bringing happiness to others, and through his rich, full life of valuable experiences offers practical, down-to-earth helps in this impressive volume. $3.95 2. HANDY SCRIPTURE GUIDE Benjamin Alward Missionaries and teachers will appreciate this handy pocket-size (5 x 7) edition. It contains conveniently - Handy arranged scriptures from the Bible, Book of Mormon, Syriptare Guide V4 Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price. Y, $1.75 vous" F DESERET BOOK 3. MESSAGES OF INSPIRATION 4 ~"COMPANY Selected addresses of the General Authorities of the Ig 44 East South Temple Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. $3.75 tg Salt Lake City, Utah 7 ry! Gentlemen: r¢ Enclosed you will find ¢ ( ) check ( ) money order. ( ) I have an account. Please charge it. ( ) Please send the following encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Amount enclosed City 00.0. Seccseseeeecseeencceeeeeseeeeee. LOMC SHAT@ 0.