[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
[The Spanish American Mission Preson R. Nibley]

Obedience brings reward; disobedience brings its own punishment. Adam learned and understood the principle of obedience. He was commanded to build altars upon which to offer sacrifices. Page 719 720 Upon one occasion, after having complied with this commandment,... An angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth (Moses 5:6, 7). Adam knew that whatever the Lord commanded him to do would be for his best good and benefit; therefore, he never questioned why he should render obedience unto the Lord. The Lord rewarded him after he had fulfilled the commandment of offering up sacrifices, and Adam had a visitation from a divine being, imparting to him the knowledge of why he was to offer sacrifices. Although obedience is a requirement, we are not compelled to obey against our own wishes. 'There is a penalty attached to disobedience which all must suffer who do not obey. "The Lord has laid down certain laws for our guidance and welfare and made promises to us as a result of obedience to these laws, One of the first lessons in obedience we learned as children, and one that will be indelibly written in our memories, was the example of perfect obedience rendered by Abraham in his willingness to place his son Isaac upon the altar, as a sacrifice unto the Lord. Moses taught the children of Israel obedience. He said, "Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse; a blessing, if ye obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 this day" ( Deut. 11:26, 27). However, the children of Israel became disobedient, and turned to the worship of the golden calf. 'The penalty for disobedience caused them to wander for forty long years in the wilderness before a new generation learned obedience to the Lord. No man had greater opportunity for progress than did Saul, King of Israel. He prophesied among the prophets and was a man greatly beloved of the Lord, but because of his willful disobedience, he was rejected from being King of Israel by the Lord, and was severely rebuked by Samuel: "Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams" (I Samuel 15:22). Obedience should be voluntary, not forced. The Lord promises his blessings if we honor and obey his laws, and not otherwise. « "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise" (D. & C. 82:10). Obedience is a_ positive power; it disciplines the character and reflects a strong, noble spirit; it refines and enlarges the soul. We obey a law because we know it to be right, because we have a desire to do right and because of the blessings promised. Obedience prompted by love brings the greatest happiness man can enjoy. "God delights in a willing heart." = We attain success spiritually and temporally when we obey the laws. Any success is accomplished only by rendering the fullest degree of obedience to the law upon which it has been predicated There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this OBEDIENCE IN ALL THINGS world, upon which all blessings are predicated—and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (D. & C. 130:20, 21). As Latter-day Saint women, we are obliged to live and teach complete obedience. We must obey the counsel and instructions of the constituted Authority of the Church. We should sustain the Priesthood and hearken to the words of the living oracles and all the words of the authorized servants of God. Brigham Young said that women do exert a great influence in guiding the destinies of men and of nations. The women of the Church can exert a great influence for good, in their homes, in the Church, and in the world, by living and teaching the saving principle of obedience to the gospel. We have a responsibility for the total effect our influence will have in the lives of others. 721 President McKay said, "Men and women who obey the principles of life and salvation, sincerely repent of their sins, and as sincerely strive to live in accordance with the principles of the gospel, are guided and inspired by the Holy Ghost, and are shown things to come" (Gospel Ideals, page 147). He also said, "Obedience to the gospel means merely compliance with the laws of health and happiness. It means keeping the body undefiled and the spirit in tune with the infinite" (Cherished Experiences, page 10). Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am (D. & C. 93:1). What a glorious promise to those who will live for it! Loves &gua tion Luett Stantliff er short span of mortal existence never follows a straight course, but, rather, "a? Spiral with rhythms of progress and retrogression, of evolution and dissolution," in men time teaches that all true values are spiritual and eternal, while earth-life is but a passing experience in which we now see "through a glass darkly" in the exploration and expectation of life, of hope, and of promise. The most precious gift man can bring to Christ is love for his neighbor—that human interest in the needs of his fellow man which is inspired by God. The offering of love and sympathy expects no return, asks for no rewards, and finds its own joy full in the giving alone. The lessons of love are the jewels we must treasure. Material gifts, fine as they may be, are only the symbols of love and the tokens of need. 'Time dissolves them, but the jewels of spiritual value are oriented into the fabric of character. They will shine on forever. Can never dissolve. These jewels Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford (Prepared for delivery at the 1957 Annual General Relief Society Conference which was cancelled. ) wish to commend stake and ward I officers for the able direction they are giving to Relief Society. Organizations and Reorganizations The stakes of the Church are increasing in number, gratifying evidence of the growing strength of the Church. At the close of 1956, there were 235 stake Relief Society organizations, an increase of twelve over 1955. 'There were 202 new local Relief Societies organized during 1956, making a total of 3,939 ward and branch societies at the close of the year. 'There were forty-five mission organizations as compared to fortyfour for 1955. During 1956 there were forty reorganizations in the stakes and twelve reorganizations in the missions. Missions Through the missionary program of the Church the work of Relief Society is being extended to the far corners of the earth. It will be of interest to you to know that on April 3, 1957, the first Relief Society was organized in Hong Kong in the Southern Far East Mission for the Chinese sisters. Relief Societies are being organized for the sisters where Latter-day Saint servicemen are located, for example in Spain, Libya, Okinawa, and elsewhere. The majority of these sisters are young women. We pray for their wellbeing. Page 722 Generally speaking, the work of Relief Society in the missions is progressing along all lines. Membership We are happy to report to you at this time an increase in the Churchwide Relief Society membership during 1956 of 9,209 making a total of 172,722 enrolled members. The membership gain for 1956 was approximately 2,000 greater than for the previous year. In view of the growing trend of women working and the many other activities which engage women today, this gain is gratifying. It is evidence of alertness on the part of officers in interesting women in the work of the society. Undoubtedly, careful consideration is being given to holding meetings at the hour most convenient for the greatest number of available members. "Why should every L. D. S. Woman be identified with Relief Society as a member?" In answer we reply, "Because it gives her a living, growing testimony of the gospel; it affords her opportunity to render wisely directed service to her fellow men; it enables her to serve her Church through the organization given to the women of the Church by our Heavenly Father; it offers her rich educational opportunities; it gives her intellectual and spiritual contacts with women of like ideals and beliefs; it helps her to be a good wife, mother, and REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS homemaker; it affords her opportunity to form choice and lasting friendships. Relief Society deserves her loyalty because it was divinely organized for the women of the Church and has had divinely inspired guidance through the years." Visiting Teaching The visiting teaching program continues to engage the time and efforts of Relief Society officers, as well as 69,984 visiting teachers who constitute 40.51 per cent of the membership of the Society. Figures for 1956 show approximately three million visits were made or an average of 8.46 per cent to each Latterday Saint family. There are in every neighborhood many aged, lonely, or troubled people who may have no special temporal needs, but who need friendly interest, assurance, encouragement, spiritual uplift, and peace of mind. 'There are sometimes those whose temporal needs may be causing anxiety or even suffering. The visiting teaching program deals with all of these human needs. The Educational Program Theology Course: The excellence of the courses of study and the good teaching procedures being followed by the 14,147 class leaders are important factors in the growth of Relief Society and attendance at the regular meetings. A new theology course of study begins this year to be continued for several years. 'I'he course is to be a section by section study of the Doctrine and Covenants. 'The Doctrine and Covenants, containing the words of the Lord to this dispensation, will be the text. 723 It is hoped that during the period covered by this course of study every member of the Relief Society will read and study the entire book of the Doctrine and Covenants; however, no report on the number of sisters reading the book will be called for by the general board, as was done with regard to reading The Book of Mormon. The Book of Mormon Reading Project: We are pleased to announce, with regard to 'The Book of Mormon reading project, that there were 3,216 wards and branches out of a possible 3,938 which submitted reports. The reports showed 163,713 members participating. Of this number 76,989 or 47.03 per cent read the section covered by the lessons for the year 1956-57. 'There were 64,859 or 37.55 per cent of the total Church-wide Relief Society membership who read the entire Book of Mormon during the sixyear period in which the project was carried forward. Testimony Period: At one of our recent conferences, attention was called to words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Which I would like to repeat: The sole ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the divinity of the Christ and of the gospel, of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the restored gospel and of the Priesthood (The Relief Society Magazine, December, 1950, page 815). A special period has been set 724 aside at the theology meeting for testimony bearing. 'The theology class leader has opportunity through her preparation and presentation of lesson material to create an atmosphere conducive to the bearing of testimony, and to awaken in the sisters a desire to express their appreciation to their Heavenly Father for their blessings and to bear witness of the truths of the gospel. To slight the testimony period is to deny the sisters an important opportunity, privilege, and blessing. Visiting Teacher Messages: 'The visiting teacher messages, as heretofore, are planned to correlate with the theology lessons. The messages, "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," are taken from those sections of the book which will be studied in the theology course. You will find these lessons practical and illustrated with pertinent examples which can easily be applied to the lives of the sisters. Literature Course:. Those sisters who have enjoyed the first year of "Shakespeare in Our Lives," will eagerly anticipate a second year of this study in the literature department, Social Science Course: 'The social science course, "Latter-day Saint Family Life,' goes into its second year. Latter-day Saint families are not without problems, but these problems can be met and solved better when seen in proper perspective and when the solutions applied are based on Church teachings. 'The social science course for the coming year will give further consideration to the Latter-day Saint family in its role of returning its members to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 presence of our Heavenly Father. Do not underestimate the need for and the importance of this course. The Work Meeting: The work meeting was the third best attended meeting during 1956. The Home Management lessons for 1957-58, "Living More Abundantly," are planned to help the sisters live more abundantly through the wise handling of the family income. 'These lessons are expertly written. Surely, no one would question the necessity of them in a day of steadily rising living costs. We highly recommend their use by the wards. The question has been asked, "May a separate department be held for the Home Management lessons at union meeting?" In response, we say, "Authorization has been granted stakes to invite the Home Management discussion leaders to attend the work meeting department in the union meeting." It is expected that time will be allotted there for a consideration of this discussion course. Home Management discussion leaders are regarded as sisters with a special assignment.