[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bread | Author: Staley]
[Bread and Yeast Recipes Joan Staley]
[Bread  and    LJeast  uiecipes 
Joan  Staley 
Health Bread 
1  c.  raw  sugar  or 
1  c.  graham  flour 
1  c,  honey  or 
Vi   tsp.  salt 
/4   c.  white  sugar  and 
1   tsp.  baking  powder 
Yz   c.  molasses 
1  c.  chopped  dates  or  figs, 
1  tsp.  soda 
raisins  or  currants,  pineapple  or 
1  c.  chopped  nuts  (optional) 
mashed  bananas,  cherries  or  apples, 
1  c.  milk 
or  Christmas  mix  (optional) 
1   e.  whole  wheat  flour 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  including  nuts  and  fruit.  Stir  milk  in  quickly.  When 
using  sugar  and  molasses  put  the  soda  in  the  molasses.  Bake  at  350°  oven  for  one  hour. 
This  recipe  makes  one  bread  tin  or  two  half-sized  tins.  We  like  this  for  cake  as  well 
as  for  bread. 
Note:  Sometimes  there  is  a  difference  in  the  texture  of  the  whole  wheat  flour.  This 
makes  it  necessary  to  use  an  extra  one  fourth  cup  of  milk  in  the  health  bread.  The  bread 
isn't  a  runny  batter,  but  is  good  and  moist. 
Homemade  Yeast  Cakes 
2  tbsp.  sugar 
1   c,  lukewarm  water 
1  c.  all-purpose  flour 
2  c.  potato  water 
2  qts,  buttermilk 
4  yeast  cakes  (dry  yeast  cakes, 
fresh  yeast  cakes,  or  powdered  yeast) 
white  corn  meal 
Put  buttermilk  in  large  kettle  and  heat  to  near  boiling  point.  Stir  in  enough  corn 
meal  to  make  a  thick  mush,  boil  until  completely  cooked  and  let  cool.  Soak  yeast 
cakes  in  warm  water,  and  when  mush  is  lukewarm  stir  yeast  in.  Let  rise  three  times, 
stirring  down  each  time.  Last  time  you  stir  down  let  stand  overnight.  Then,  in  the 
morning,  add  the  flour  and  enough  corn  meal  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Mold  on  well- 
floured  cookie  sheet  and  cut  in  sizes  a  little  larger  than  commercial  yeast  cakes,  as  the 
homemade  yeast  cakes  will  shrink,  about  1  !4  inches  by  1  !4  inches  by  %  inches  would 
be  advisable.  Let  dry,  turning  often.  When  completely  dry,  wrap  in  aluminum  foil, 
store,  and  put  in  a  tin  can  with  a  tight  lid.  Watch  for  weevils.  This  yeast  has  been 
used  as  long  as  two  years  after  preparation  and  storing.  Also,  you  can  make  yeast 
cakes  by  using  the  homemade  cakes  in  place  of  commercial  yeast  cakes  or  powdered 
yeast. 
Bread  Made  From  Homemade  Yeast  Cakes 
To  make  bread,  start  fresh  yeast  with  two  of  these  yeast  cakes  dissolved  in  warm 
water.  Add  potato  water  and  sugar.  Let  this  work  one  or  two  days  before  using.  Make 
a  sponge  and  let  rise,  then  mix  more  flour  and  finish  making  your  bread.  This  yeast 
\\'orks  slower  than  commercial  yeast.  You  may  keep  about  one-half  cup  of  the  yeast 
as  a  start  and  add  more  potato  water  and  sugar  for  the  next  time. 
Page  748