[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: ANNIVERSARY OF HER BIRTH. | Author: M. H. T]

ANNIVERSARY OF HER BIRTH.	

My heart is filled with gratitude and praise
To Him who kindly lengthened out thy days,
That thou might’st live to celebrate on earth,
The Seventieth Anniversary of thy birth.

In life’s long drama thou hast played a part,
Requiring true integrity of heart,		
Wisdom unbounded, courage, strength of mind,
With patience, love and charity combined.

And since, obedient to thy Father’s will,
Thou cam’st to earth a mission to fulfill, 
Hast striven humbly thy life-work to know,
And nobly filled thy mission here below.

Armed with virtue, purity and truth,
Thou passed unscathed the trying scenes of youth,
And entered woman’s realm of usefulness,
A spirit pure, to comfort, cheer and bless.

United, then, to one of sterling worth,
An honest man, a noble son of earth,
A wife’s whole duty thou didst strive to do,  
As faithful helpmeet, and wise counselor, too.

The Gospel plan was then to thee made known,
The way to life and exaltation shown; 
Thy soul rejoiced the heavenly truths to hear,
And faithful proved through each succeeding year.

Though trials came, thy heart with grief to fill,
Thou bow'st in meek submission to His will
Who doeth all things well.  He knows thy heart,
To thee a crown of glory will impart.
But not till charms of motherhood were thine,
Did thy true woman's soul resplendent shine.
Thou art, indeed, with virtues manifold,
A mother, of the purest, truest mould.

With many gems thy mother's crown is set, 
O, may they never cause thee to regret
The years of toil, care, suffering without measure.
Thou hast endured to give them life and pleasure.

And though some jewels rare that thou hast worn,
Hath from thy earthly crown with grief been torn,
They sparkle yet in realms of purity,
And thine shall be through all eternity.

Oh, how can words our loving thoughts express?
They seem so cold, so weak, so meaningless:	
The heart’s affections they cannot reveal, 
The depth of love and gratitude we feel.

May heaven bless thee! angels hover near,
To shield, protect, to comfort, bless and cheer;
May life, health, peace, prosperity be thine, 
And every blessing round thy pathway shine.

And though my heart would other words dictate, 
I will refrain, and humbly dedicate
These simple lines to her who gave me birth,
A loving tribute to a mother’s worth.
								M. H. T.
Nov. 20, 1888.


[column 1]
