[Vol3 | January 1916 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Genealogy Lesson - Individual Records and Letters]

GENEALOGY.
The moment a person begins his individual record, he is confronted with a number of questions: When was I baptized? When was I appointed to office in the Relief Society? And many other numerous points. Too often the person who is unable to give all this information off-hand, becomes discouraged, and gives the whole matter up. What then shall be done by the class teacher or supervisor?
First ? Encourage the person to write down all she can in the class.
And second ? urge her to write and inquire for further information. If it is a baptism date, write to the Bishop of the ward; if born in the Church, write to the parish minister, if christened in the old country. If the endowment date is missing, write to the President of the Temple where the ordinance was performed, stating exactly what you want. Always send stamps for reply.
We give a sample letter to help our workers in distant stakes:
Logan, Nov. 9.
Dear Sir:
My name is Mrs. Mary Ann Smith Jones. I was born 20th November, 1869, in Provo. Was baptized in the Fourth ward of that city when I was eight years old; that is, in 1877, so my mother told me. My father's name is Jesse Smith, my mother's name is Mrs. Hannah Allen Smith. Can you give me the exact date, and the name of the elder who officiated in the baptism and in the confirmation ordinances? I enclose stamps for reply. Thanking you in advance for your kindness, I am
Yours truly,
Model letter to Parish Clerk:
Parish Clerk of Old South Church, Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir:
My second great-grandfather, William Young, who married Hannah Healy, of Cambridge, was a worshiper in your church, in 1721. He went from Boston to Barrington, N. H., in 1720-22, was one of the original proprietors of that town, but in all Barrington deeds, he speaks of himself as "of Boston." His children were: Elizabeth ? who married Elisha Hall ? and Joseph. William later ? probably in 1730 ? moved to Hopkinton, Mass., with his friend Rev. Samuel Barrett of the Old North Church, Boston, taking his wife and two children with him. William died in Hopkinton, in 1749. Can you give any further information from your records? I want date of William's birth, parent's name, and other data. Also birth dates of children, Elizabeth and Joseph, and wish to know if there were other children. Will pay regular rate for searching records. I enclose stamps for reply. Thanking you in advance, I am
Yours truly.
When writing to non-"Mormon" church officials, or relatives, it is always better to enclose a blank such as we furnish in this office. In any letters of inquiry, observe the following points:
Give your own full name ? never use initials. Give the full name of the person whose record you wish searched for. Give dates of birth, marriage, or death of the person, if you have them. Give birthplace, places of residence of self, or the person desired. Where possible, add the names and dates of family members, if you desire information concerning their parents.
Practical Class Exercise. ? Let each student write an actual or a model letter, asking for information on some point concerning her individual record. If the Relief Society member has prepared her own sheet, then let her write out her husband's sheet in the same full and careful manner. This work should preferably be done in the class. Where sheets are left with the person to fill out at home, they are too often forgotten or neglected.
QUESTIONS.
How much can you give of your own data? What would you do to get missing dates in your record? Why is it important to get out your own data? What points would you note always in your letters to bishops, clerks, or ministers? Why are initials misleading? What genealogical value is there in the use of your full name, when writing to others for more information? When writing for information about your parents or grandparents, what plan would you follow? When your own data is complete, what next will you do?