[Vol8 | June 1921 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Funeral Services of President Emmeline B. Wells]

Funeral Services of President Emmeline B. Wells Fifth President of the Relief Societies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, Friday, April 29, 1921. (The arrangements for the funeral services were under the direction of Elders Rulon S. Wells and John Q. Cannon, assisted by the Executive Officers of the General Board of Relief Society.). By Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman The funeral of President Emmeline B. Wells, who died on Sunday, April 25, 1921, at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, was held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle on Friday, April 29, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. The body of Mrs. Wells was removed from the home of Mr. John Q. Cannon to the Tabernacle at 11 o'clock where it lay in state until 2 p. M. When the services began. Mrs. Wells' officers, consisting of her counselors, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Julina L. Smith, General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman, Corresponding Secretary Susa Young Gates, Treasurer Emma A. Empey, joined the family at the residence and with them accompanied the remains to the tabernacle. While the body was being viewed at the tabernacle by the thousands of friends and admirers, who silently passed the bier, members of the General Board, and the stake presidents of the Salt Lake county stakes, were in attendance. During this time the tabernacle organ was played by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists. The members of Mrs. Wells' board and of the reorganized board, assembled at the Relief Society headquarters and marched in a body to the tabernacle. President Wells' board preceded the pall bearers and the hearse in the funeral procession, serving as a guard of honor. The Pioneer Stake Relief Society officers, under the chairmanship of the president, Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, assisted Mr. Frank Wynne in arranging and caring for the flowers. Mrs. Margaret C. Spencer, president of the Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, where Aunt "Em" was enrolled as a ward member, was in charge of twelve Relief Society women from the Salt Lake City stakes, who acted as ushers under the supervision of Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
 The pulpit and railings of the tabernacle were decorated nm pure white which formed a charming background for the numerous exquisite floral offerings of hundreds of friends and admirers. The beautiful bluish grey casket itself was covered with a blanket formed of roses, lilies, carnations and ferns, and was banked about with masses of the same flowers. Among the floral tributes was a wreath of wheat and roses, with letters in violets, representing the Relief Society official emblem. The seating for the services was as follows: General Church Authorities in usual places, family on front seats directly in front of bier, behind them the General Board of Relief Society and other auxiliary boards of the Church, and all especially invited guests, which included the many women's organizations in which President Wells had been deeply interested. The congregation of approximately six thousand was made up principally of Relief Society women, who had turned out en masse to pay a parting tribute to their beloved leader, who, as a pioneer, a suffragist, a writer, a welfare worker, and president of the Relief Society, had won the admiration and respect of all who knew her. The program for the funeral exercises was carried out as follows: 1 Opening Hymn, "When First the Glorious Light of Truth" eeRelief Society Choir, Lizzie Thomas Edward, Director 2 Opening Prayer..............4.. President Anthony W. Ivins 3 Violin Solo, "Traumerie"...,.......:. Prof. Willard Weihe 4 Remarks...............04. President Clarissa S. Williams 5 Remarks 1.2.0... Cece eee ee deeDr. George W. Middleton 6 Remarks.......0.0.. 02... Cece eeeDr. Seymour B: Young 7 Soprano Solo, "Oh, Dry Those Tears". Lorinda P. Brewerton 8 Remarks.............00 00 eee eeeBishop Charles W. Nibley 9 Remarks..... IDOI 60000 0b ag000¢Elder Orson F. Whitney 10 Male Quartet, "Jesus, I My Citas Have Taken".......... Bio odGGdG000000bConcJames H. Nielson, August Glissmeyer ApS 000 000DdDG..+..,-Henry Glissmeyer, Hyrum Christensen 11 Remarks....... PoocnasdboccPresident Charles W. Penrose 12 Remarks.....0.........000cceoePresident Heber J: Grant 13 Closing Hymn, "Oh, My Father".................-000e BIBDB0 occ00cRaymond Williams, assisted by Tabernacle Choir 14 Benediction.............. Pio 8cBishop Thomas A, Clawson (Music under direction of Prof. Anthony C. Lund) A large cortege, under the supervision of Mr. B. F. Grant, followed the casket to the cemetery where, in the Daniel H. Wells' FUNERAL SERVICES OF EMMELINE B. WELLS 357 family lot, the body was interred by the side of the husband and other members of the family. The pall bearers were the grandsons of President Wells, sons of Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. 'Phe first four automobiles in the procession conveyed the members of President Wells' board, who were as follows: Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Miss Sarah Eddington, Miss Lillian Cameron, Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler. Following the board members were the pall bearers, then the hearse, and then the family, followed by the General Authorities of the Church, the auxiliary organizations, and the public. The service at the grave consisted of a musical number by the Elite Quartet, and a dedicatory prayer by Elder Rulon S, Wells. The burial plot was completely covered with beautiful flowers, and the grave was lined with ferns upon a background of white chiffon. 'The speakers at the funeral services included church officials, and personal friends, all of whom were life-long associates of Mrs. Wells. In order to incorporate a resume of these addresses in this issue of the Magazine, we append here the Deseret News' account, as approved by the speakers, and prepared under the direction of the editor in chief of the Deseret News. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, president of the Relief Society, Mrs. Wells' successor in office, was the first speaker. She told of her long friendship with "Aunt Em" and her family; of how little children had always loved the "old, old lady;" of how Mrs. Wells had lived a score of years beyond the allotted three-score and ten; and of the long years of work in the Relief Society she had enjoyed with the departed. ' Mrs. Williams spoke of the remarkable career of verse writing of Mrs, Wells, begun at the age of four; of the young women of Utah with literary inclination, who had been encouraged by her; of her long struggle to help women to secure the franchise; of her journeys far across the water to take the message of the Relief Society to the world; of her missionary work at home; of the tributes paid by noted women of the entire world to Mrs. Wells; of her testimony of the gospel and the divine mission of 
 Joseph Smith; of her love of that gospel; of her long years of outlook on the development of almost a century. The speaker also referred to what was. Possibly Aunt Em's one ungratified wish, that of experiencing the thrill of flying— a feat which even at her advanced years she might have undertaken had not her close advisers feared that it would be too severe a task upon her. DR. MIDDLETON Dr. George W. Middleton, medical adviser of "Aunt Em," in her last days, and for many years previously, paid a glowing tribute. He told of the beginning of her life in a little New England village; of her personal friendship with the poet Whittier; of her early baptism into the Church and her personal friendship with the martyred Prophet. Her contact with leaders of the Church at Nauvoo, her presence near the scenes of the martyrdom; her pioneer trip across the bleak frontier to Utah and her leadership in early-day Utah affairs were eloquently reviewed. The speaker referred to her charm and mannerism as evidenced in the number of visitors who sought her acquaintance; and in conclusion he predicted that her place in the historical annals of the west will ever be of the front and highest rank. ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG Elder Seymour B. Young gave personal reminiscences of the little pioneer schoolma'am, both as day-school and Sunday school teacher. He had been a pupil under her tuition in Nauvoo. He read extracts telling of the organization by Mrs. Wells of the Press club and Reapers club. BISHOP C. W. NIBLEY Presiding Bishop Charles W. Nibley said he regarded "Aunt Em" as one of the finest products of "Mormonism," she having allied herself in her youth with it despite its unpopularity; but she received inspiration from the prophet of the Lord and carried the inspiration of the Almighty in her soul. In "Mormonism," he declared, she had found the real suffrage, and with clear insight she comprehended the teachings of the Church—its great truths, which only the cultured, the true hearted and faithful could fully understand. Her soul was so attuned that she was able to perceive the celestial melodies; and she had the mental force which caused her to be a pillar of strength perhaps more than has been given to any other woman of her day. The speaker FUNERAL SERVICES OF EMMELINE B. WELLS 359 said he was proud this day to be accounted one of her friends; his life has been better for having been acquainted with her. ELDER O. F. WHITNEY Elder O. F. Whitney, after reciting the familiar poem, said "Aunt Em's" life was like a perfect day—it had its clouds and its sunshine, but the clouds were only the background of a more perfect picture. She was not only a poet but an executive. She was a Saint. "To me," said the speaker, "she was a mother, to her I was a son. But what is there now to mourn, what reason to weep? Nothing but the parting. The school is out, the mission ended. What more natural than that the trained child should return home." The speaker concluded by reciting "(Crossing the Bar,' vorite poem of Mrs. Wells. D a faPRESIDENT C. W. PENROSE President Charles W. Penrose said there was nothing too good to be said of the departed one whom he regarded as a loving sister. She was bright, keen, quick, and capable to understand the truth. Though small in stature, she was big in spirit. She had always been alert and alive to the right, and was a great executive, following a line of powerful women in the direction of the great Relief Society, There was no selfishness in her soul nor in her work; her hand reached out to the entire world, especially in the matter of suffrage. She was a capable teacher and her name would be remembered, forever. President Penrose then spoke along doctrinal lines in regard to the resurrection, and dwelt upon the comfort that comes from the knowledge that by what is called death we pass through the change from mortality to immortality, as illustrated by the Savior of mankind. " 'Aunt Em' believed in this immortality," President Penrose said, "just as I do; she believed in life after death, in the resurrection of the body, and in the reunion with loved ones on the other side if we have lived so as to be worthy of going where they are. This faith and knowledge should fill our souls with joy and should give us consolation under every trial." PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT President Heber J. Grant commented on the significance of the large congregation—one of the largest audiences he had ever witnessed at a funeral held on other than a Sabbath day. "No other woman in the Church," he said, "has had so many prom- ~ 
 inent people call on her as our dear departed sister." He spoke of the intimate association of the Grant and Wells families and paid tribute not only to the works of the deceased as a poet and a writer, but also for her loving disposition. He recognized that she had a remarkable capacity of expressing herself in a clear, forceful way, by both tongue and pen; and yet he was inclined to place her loving desire to help others above all others of her characteristics. The association of his mother and Mrs. Wells as president and secretary, respectively, in the Thirteenth ward Relief Society, he said, was one of his most treasured remembrances and he added that next to his mother's the testimony of Mrs. Wells was one of his most impressive memories. He affirmed that all the blessings and rewards promised the true followers of the gospel of Christ would be "Aunt Em's," as she had lived the gospel to the fullest extent of her power. Judge Not. Ida R. Alldredge Judge not—for you know not the motive That has guided your neighbor or friend, And the act that you think so unworthy Is oft done to bring good in the end. Know you not that it's kinder and better Just to wait till you understand well, E'er you speak too severely of others, And their follies too freely you tell? Oh, so often we judge one another With a prejudice bitter and strong; Little guessing the harm we are doing, Or that we are far more in the wrong. Look not for the fault in your neighbor, For your own may be fully as great, But strive to forgive one another, Lest you wait till the hour be too late.