WOMAN'S VOICE

	I often think that I would like to mingle my
voice with the rest of my sisters, in regard to
the work in which we are all engaged; we are
somewhat isolated from the main body of the
Church. We are trying to serve the Lord, I be-
lieve. We were joined yesterday by a company
of our brethren and sisters from Sanpete, Utah,
which will help very much to strengthen us
here. Our town is growing very fast; we have
a Relief Society here, also Young Men's and
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, but we are just beginning; I hope they
will prove a great success. The people here
seem to be alive to their duties, and are inter-
ested in the good work. The Gospel is begin-
ning to spread among the Mexicans, who seem
to be a good-hearted people, but they have a
great deal of tradition to overcome. I think
that we can do about as much by example here
as we can by preaching. Not wishing to intrude,
I will close, ever wishing success to the EXPO-
NENT.				SEMANTHA T. BOICE.
	Manassa, Colorado, Oct. 25, 1880.


On the evening of October the 10th, Prof.
Swift. astronomer of the Rochester Observatory
N. Y. discovered a large comet.

	"The fact was noted in Associated Press dis-
patches, but some important and interesting
details which could not be telegraphed are here-
with given. The new celestial visitor is in the
Constellation of Pegasus, right ascension, 21
hours, 30 minutes, declination north 17 degrees,
30 minutes. Its rate of motion is very slow,
being in a north westerly direction, so that it is
approaching the sun. It has a very strong con-
densation on one side of the centre, in additon
to a star-like nucleus, which indicates that it
is throwing off an extended tail. From the fact
of its extraordinary size, we are warranted in
presuming that it will be very brilliant, and the
additional fact that it is coming almost directly
toward the earth, gives good promise that it
will be one of the most remarkable comets of
the present century. This is the fifth comet
which Prof. Swift has discovered, and the in-
creased facilities which Mr. W. H. Warner, the
popular and wealthy medicine man, has given
him, by erecting a magnificent observatory for
his benefit, promises much more for the future.
There is a possibility that further developments
may prove this to be the great comet of 1812,
which is being constantly expected, in which
event astronomers will have an unusual oppor-
tunity to test the spectroscope for the first time
upon these eccentric bodies, and ascertain cer-
tainly what they are."


A PLEASANT MANNER.—It is a pleasure to
oblige really agreeable people.Some unhappy men
are so organized that it,is only with difficulty
they can even force the appearance of politeness.
Without intending it their manner is repellant,
and if they have a fair share of combativeness,
antagonistic to such an extent as to make their
society unsought and disagreeable. They receive
favors ungraciously, and grant them in such a
manner as makes the recipient regret having
asked them. But the naturally agreeable per-
son both accepts and confers a favor in a manner
delightful to witness.


MY life was saved by Warner's Safe Kidney
and Liver Cure.—E. B. Lakely, Selma, Ala.
	A HAPPY RESTORATION.—I can truly say
that I owe my present existence and happy res-
toration to the hopes and joys of life, to the use
of Warner's Safe Kidney and Liver Cure, and I
say to every one suffering from any manner of
kidney, liver, and urinary trouble, "Use this
remedy and recover."		W. E. SANFORD.
	Holly, N. Y., Feb. 25, 1880.


