REPORTS.

	The first Ladies Conference, consisting of the
Relief Societies and Y. L. M. I. Associations
for the Eastern Arizona Stake of Zion, was
held in Snowflake, September 25th, 1880.
Pres. Willmirth East presiding. After singing
and prayer, Sister East expressed her gratitude
and joy at meeting with the sisters in the capa-
city of a conference; realizing it to be the first
of the kind ever held in Arizona. Welcomed
all, and made a few encouraging remarks, after
which reports from the different organizations
throughout the Stake numbering in all, six
Relief Societies. and four Y. L, Associations,
(which were only effected one month before)
were read, showing them to be in a prosperous
condition. The condensed reports for Relief
Societies, gave a total of 186, officers and mem-
bers, and for Y. L. M. I. A., a total of 108,
officers and members.
	Owing to the recent organizations, our finan-
cial report was deemed scarcely worthy to be
noted. Quite an amount of gleaning has been
done by the sisters in the different branches,
which will be reported at our next conference.
During the meeting we were honored with a
visit from Elders Erastus Snow and Brigham
Young, of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles,
who were here from Utah, also Prest. Jesse N.
Smith of this Stake.
	Brother Snow expressed great pleasure at
finding the ladies' organizations so nearly com-
pleted; was earnest in his exhortations and
congratulations to the sisters upon this, their
commencement in a new country. Felt that
the Lord had blessed them abundantly in
their labors thus far, and would continue to do
so. The following officers being sustained by
the conference, were then blessed and set apart
to their different callings, by the Apostles, and
Stake authorities present. Mrs. Willmirth East
President of Relief Societies for Stake, Mrs.
Emma S. Smith, and Lois R. Hunt, her
Counselors; Ida F. Hunt, Stake President of Y.
L. M. I. Association, with Mrs. Nellie Smith,
and Miss Emma Larson, Counselors. A good
spirit prevailed throughout the conference,
which was adjourned indefinitely.
	Several numbers of the EXPONENT are taken
throughout the Stake, and they are indeed
welcome visitors, bringing us glad tidings and
words of consolation from the many dear ones
left behind in our homes. We do not wish to
be forgotten, and feel that though far away
we may still be of service in the great cause,
which is our earnest desire.
						IDA F. Hunt,
				Stake Sec'y Relief Society.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Sevier Stake, held at Rich-
field October 24 and 25, 1880.
	Meeting called to order by Pres. Elizabeth
[-]ean. Singing. Prayer by Pres. H. K.
[-]aurber. Singing. The reports of the differ-
ent wards were read by the Secretary. After
which Sister E. R. S. Smith, by request, arose
and addressed the congregation Was pleased
to see a few of the brethren present, as it
showed that our interest in coming together
was mutual; and also, that they might correct
us if need be. Spoke on the subject of organ-
ization; said there were some societies which
women had a right to organize, such as the Y,
L. and Primary Associations, but they had no
right to organize a Relief Society; but they
could assist the priesthood in doing so. Said
if we were living up to our duties we were
helpmeets to the priesthood. Felt herself
highly honored in being numbered with the
sisters of the Relief Societies of this Church.
Urged us to be devoted and faithful to our
duties, and realize the great responsibility of
rearing the young, and not to spend our time

[Column 2]
in unnecessary labor, to the neglect of our
children in sending them to meeting; referred
to the growing infidelity in our midst, and
thought we should keep the good continually
before them, that it might get the precedence
of evil. Spoke of the great pleasure she ex-
perienced in meeting with the children, of
their improvement, and of the importance of
their being punctual, and setting the example
to the children to be on time. Wished to im-
press on the minds of the sisters to commence
their meetings at the time appointed.
	Sister B. W. Smith was pleased with the
privilege of meeting with the Saints in peace;
had attended the first organization in the days
of Joseph, where he had instructed the Society
to adopt the use of parliamentary rules.
Thought we should teach the children not to
use tea, coffee, tobacco, whiskey, nor to lie,
steal nor swear; and by so doing they would
become great and good. Urged us to observe
the Sabbath day. Prayed that we might not
go into apostacy, but that we might have a
good time during Conference, aud that the
blessings of the Lord would rest upon Israel.
	Sister Eliza explained that she had been
given a mission to assist the priesthood in or-
ganizing the Relief Societies; hence, some had
conceived the idea that she organized.
	Pres. Thurber spoke of the quiet, peaceful
spirit which always prevailed at the sisters'
meetings, and of the good influence they ex-
erted, and of the universal liberty and freedom
enjoyed by the Saints in the Kingdom of God.
	After some good and instructive remarks by
Sister Bean, Conference adjourned until two
p. m. Siuging and benediction.
	2 p. m. Meeting called to order by Pres.
Bean. After the usual opening exercises, the
presidents of the different wards gave a verbal
report of the Societies. They reported the
Societies to be prospering, and as a general
thing the sisters were willing to do all in their
power to aid in advancing the work of the
kingdom.
	Pres. Bean encouraged the sisters to do bet-
ter in the future, and to live humble, be prayer-
ful and alive to their duties.
	Sister Eliza gave the Secretaries some in-
structions in regard to keeping the books, &c.
Spoke of the benefit and beauty of children
being taught to work, and those who were
were the ones that generally made their mark
in the world and become useful members of
society and the kingdom of God.
	Sister Bathsheba thought we were all labor-
ing in a school which embraced every princi-
ple of the Gospel, and hoped we would study
those principles thoroughly. Advised us to
adopt the plan of ruling our children by love
and kindness, and by gaining their esteem and
confidence we would be enabled to have a much
greater influence.
	Sister Spencer felt thankful for and much
pleased with the visit of the sisters from Salt
Lake, and had enjoyed the meetings very
much, and esteemed it a great privilege to be
numbered with this people.
	Sister Thurber felt desirous of responding to
every call made upon her, and realized the
benefit and blessings to be derived from com-
ing to meeting; Bore her testimony to the
truth of what had been said.
	Sister Ruth Heywood said she had been a
member of this Church for thirty years, and
could bear her testimony that she had never
regretted it. Spoke of the sublimity of the
principles of honesty and truth. Felt thank-
ful for the wise counsel and instruction we had
received, and for the organization of the Pri-
mary Association. Exhorted all to live so
that we may gain a celestial glory.
	Bishop Horne, by the request of Pres. Bean,
made some excellent remarks; referred to the
timidity of the sisters in arising to speak; en-
couraged them to overcome it, and remember

[Column 3]
that they were talking to the Saints. Urged
the sisters to be punctual and regular in at-
tending meeting.
	Bishop Poulsen said there was a pleasure in
doing our duty that only a Saint can feel.
Commended the faithfulness and diligence of
the sisters in the societies, nnd encouraged,
them to continue in doing good. and keep the
Spirit of God, for without the spirit of our
calling we could not do much.
	Sister Eliza said there was a deficiency in
the Stake organization, there being no Trea-
surer. Sister Maria Horne was presented and
sustained to fill that office.
	Meeting appointed for the presidents of the
societies at 6:30 at Sister Thurber's. Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a. m.
Choir sang an anthem. Benediction by Bro.
Ence.
	Saturday, 10 a. m. Meeting opened with
singing and prayer. Sister Eliza greeted the
assembly with a pleasant good morning, and
asked each and every one to lift their hearts in
prayer to God, that we might have His Holy
Spirit to be with us through the remainder of
this Conference, as this would be the last meet-
ing for the sisters. Spoke with feeling upon
the importance of a teacher's calling; encour-
aged them to obtain the Spirit of the Lord
when visiting the sisters, that they might be
enabled to comfort the sorrowing, strengthen
the weak, and become Saviors in Zion. Coun-
seled us to be charitable to each other and
help one another to overcome. Spoke of plural
marriage and her feelings when she first heard
it; how she had obtained the victory over
them, and how she felt now. Referred to the
time when the prophet first received the revela-
tion and the effect it had. Rejoiced in the
useful lives of the many good sisters in this
Church, and in the glorious reward they would
obtain by their faithfulness. Instructed them
in regard to washing, anointing and adminis-
tering to each other.
	Sister Bathsheba bore her testimony to the
truth and divinity of plural marriage, of its
refining and elevating influence, and the re-
ward if lived right.
	Sister Bean bore her testimony to the truth
of the same. Related some of her experience
in trying to live plural marriage, and the tes-
timonies of the Spirit to her and its comforting
influence.
	After a few good remarks by Brothers Bean
and Thurber, the Conference adjourned until
Jan 1st, 1881. Choir sang "This is my com-
mandment." Benediction by Bro. Thurber.

