BY HANNAH T. KING.

	To reprove well and wisely has ever seemed
to me one of the most desirable attainments.
It is a most disagreeable office, and yet at
times a most necessary one; it is desirable to
use language that shall soften instead of hard-
ening the offender; it is also good to command
the voice, that its tones may be persuasive
rather than severe; the countenance also should
denote sorrow more than anger. The reproof
of a wise and virtuous person is ever a token
of love and care for our welfare, whether it
comes from relative, friend or employer, and
should be received with silent dignity. Some
are apt to look upon a reprover as an enemy,
or as unkindness, but this is for want of due
consideration, for if they speak for our good it
must benefit us; and all have the power to
make good come out of reproof. A candid,
noble mind will bear it without one feeling of
rebellion, though it may, and probably will,
sadden the spirit; but such a mind will reason,
meditate, and come to the conclusion it is in-
tended for good, and I will take care that good
shall come of it. Whatever was unjust in the 
reproof, the reprover must be responsible for;
but such a mind will at once see and will be
open to conviction and speedily be brought to
repentance and reformation, for such are ever
humble and teachable and though they may fall
into follies, or some wrong path, the reproof
of the kind and wise will quickly call them back
to duty and rectitude. I'd confess we have
been wrong is only saying we are wiser to-day
than we were yesterday.
	My sisters, let us learn to reprove kindly
and wisely, by the spirit of love, which is the
spirit of heaven. If we are very angry, let us
wait till we can command our feelings; for if
we speak then, there will be harm done instead
of good. I have seen women reprove in their 
families, among their children and servants,
with that mildness, yet with that dignity, that
force and determination, that every tongue was
silenced, every heart convinced, every soul
melted and repentant. Did they feel angry at
her reproof? No; the longer she talked and
reasoned with them the more they loved her,
and she stood in her household as a royal ma-
tron amongst them, and they deemed her "an

[Column 2]
angel in the way!" If ever I have envied, it
has been called out by such women; their dig-
nity of character, their self-controling power,
their abnegation of self. Oh, let us imitate
such models, for they are worthy. A passive
spirit is a sweet one, let it be embodied in
whom it may; not passive when it is our duty
to be energetic, but where we should honor
and obey. Not passive when our child is inso-
lent and disobedient; firmness then must be
aroused to put down rebellion and restore or-
der. But if children are taught from baby-
hood to be obedient to legal authority, they
will rarely rebel, and will not oblige a parent
to speak many times before they will obey.
When I see a disobedient child, I blush and
mourn for the mother, for I know there lies
the mischief. The Savior's description of one
in authority should be the model for the head
of a family: "I say to this one, come, and he
cometh, and to another, go, and he goeth, and
to my servant, do this, and he doeth it."
	The fundamental principle of a well ordered
family is obedience to the laws of that house;
and where this is in full force, little reproof
will be needed; and when it is given it will be
but the echo of our own heart and conscience,
and we at once bow beneath the rod and kiss
the hand that wields it. Oh, how mighty is
that being who walks in innocency before God!
Who, though conscious of many imperfections,
can say, with hand on heart and looking up-
ward, "I desire, my Father, to be thine, only
thine; I desire to be pure even in Thy sight.
Excelsior! is my motto, my war cry in the battle
of life."
Let us then be humble, not servile; meek, but
not abject; passive, but not inert; self-reliant,
yet thankful for assistance when needed. Let
us reprove as we would desire to be reproved,
remembering ever that "the wounds of a friend
are better than the kisses of an enemy;" and
many a one has been made a firm friend by
the sweet way in which their reproof has been
received, and the reprover has at once merged
into the consoler, the adviser, the benefactor
and the friend for life.
	Postscript—It is a positive fact that an obe-
dient spirit bears the ills of life much easier
than a refractory one. The yoke of daily life
does not gall the shoulders, but fits so good
that it is not felt scarcely; a French writer
says, "Man is a bundle of habits"—and good 
habits are much more agreeable than bad ones,
and have no taxes to pay for them—which is
a mighty consideration and recommend in these
days of universal taxation. A well-fitting
habit is also the most becoming dress to all.
Ladies, let us ever wear one!


The front of Pilgrim Hall, Plymouth, is
soon to be ornamented with a group of figures
in bas-relief, carved in wood, and representing
the landing, which will be placed upon the
pediment of the porch. A shallop with a
broken mast, containing bundles and two men,
is at the rock. One man sits holding an oar
and looking at an Indian, while the other is in
the bow of the boat, with one foot on the rocks,
with his hands clasped in that of an Indian,
who kneels and appears to welcome the new
comers. The group is about twenty-five feet in
length and very effective. It is presented by
Mr. Stickney, of Baltimore, designed by Henry
Mitchell, and carved by A. Lus, both of Bos-
ton.—Ex.


