DARE  TO  DO  RIGHT.

	I have just perused the beautiful little song
with the above title, and as I think how ap-
propriate it is for free and bold young Ameri-
cans, my mind wanders back to other countries
and governments less fortunate. Monarchs,
magistrates, priests and nations pass before my
memory's eye, as in a panorama, with their 
record of sinful pride, vanity, implacable ha-
tred, and insatiable  thirst for wealth  and  hon-
ors,  on  the  part  of  rulers, and the abject pov-
erty, ignorance and cowardice of the masses.
	Sad, very  sad  is  the  future.  So  much  so,
that I turn  from  it with  the  heavy, sorrowful
feeling which all who love their fellow-creatures
experience,  when  they  witness  their  downfall
without  being  able  to  help  them. Oh, that
those monarchs had been taught in their youth
to  do  right!  That  their  courtiers,  senators
and   priests  had   been  taught  to  dare  to  do
right! How much misery it would have spared
the  human  family. Then  love,  justice  and
mercy would  have  superceded  hatred, oppres-
sion  and  cruelty, and  intelligence  and  thrift
would have been the  happy  lot  of  the  nations
—both  drawing upon  themselves  the blessings
instead  of  the  wrath  of  the  Almighty.
	I see Rome—the grand city built upon seven
hills, the  cradle  of  noble  warriors  and  law-
makers, in  whose  portals  falsehood,  cowardice
and   even  self-indulgence  were  once  held  as
crimes—what is she  now?  A den of iniduity.
She  has  flattered her rulers into  splendor and
revelry, and they have crushed her people into
the dust.  Bigotry  and  tyrrany walk  hand in
hand, for  the  ignorance  of  the masses is  their 
strongest  foothold.  No  negro  ever  was   in
worse bondage  than  the  Roman  people  have
been for centuries.
	The   Roman  Church,    self-called   "Chiesa
Catolica  Apostolica  Romana,"  as late as 1847,
(more or less)  reigned Church and State, nomi-
nally, only the  Romau Empire;  but in reality,
over  all  Italy,  Spain,  Portugal,  France  and
Austria,  whose  kings  and  emperors  dared
hardly  assert their souls to be their  own. In-
stance: The  Inquisition  of Spain,  Rome  and
Venice; the  persecutions  of  the  Waldenses in
Piedmont, and Huegenots in France, etc.
	But  a  brighter  day  has  dawned  for   them
also.  In 1847  or 1848,  after   the  close  of the
Austrio-Italian  war,  Victor Emmanuel, son of 
Charles  Albert, succeeding  his  father  to  the
Sardinian  throne,  shook  the  Papal  yoke  off,
freed  the  people, giving  them a Constitutional
government, liberty  of worship, and  liberty of
the  press.  He  dared to do right in the face of
priestly  persecution;  and  to  a  long anathema
of Pius the IX, which was published in all the
leading papers  of  Europe (for a scare) Victor
Emmanuel  made  this  beautiful  reply: "God
placed  this  people  under my care, to God alone
will I answer."
	Morgan City.	E. C. F.
	To be  Continued.


CALUMNY would soon starve and die of itself,
if nobody took it in and gave it lodgings.—
Leighton.


