VISIT TO ST. GEORGE.

	I left home August 15; traveled by rail to Mil-
ford, from thence to Fort Johnson by coach; I
was then so exhausted I was obliged to stop for
a few days. I took private conveyance to Cedar
City; stopped a few days at Bishop Lunt's, who
took me on to Leeds, where I hired a boy to con-
vey me to St. George. My expenses have not
been less than one hundred dollars.
	I commenced working in the Temple October
8th; I officiated for many of my dead friends,
and was baptized for my health in that beautiful
Font, from which I derived great benefit.
	As I was about starting from home, some of
my friends said to me, "There will be Temples
done soon nearer home; why not wait?" Said I,
"I am here now, I have no lease of my life." I
thought of the days of Nauvoo; how gladly we
would have worked in the Temple, but we were
hindered by our enemies. I do not know how
much Satan may stir them up again. My
friends thought it a very great undertaking for
me to travel over such a rough country, and so
it was; but I knew faith without works was dead,
it would never redeem my dead friends, and the
thought of meeting them when I had not ex-
erted myself to embrace the first possible oppor-
tunity was very unpleasant; I felt that a know-
ledge of having done my duty would be much
the best. I felt that my dead were urging me
on. I employed others to assist me, and left
some work for my friends to do for me.
	The redemption of our dead should occupy a
large space in the hearts of those who are per-
mitted to come forth on the earth in this the
dispensation of the fulness of times. Do we be-
lieve that our dead friends are in prison, and
cannot extricate themselves without our aid?
We must then go through those initiating ordi-
nances, before they can be released from their
prison house. Do we believe this, and yet are
indifferent with regard to these things? The
only place on earth where we can do this work
is in the St. George Temple.
	While I was in St. George I rode about the
city with my nephew, George D. E. Smith, and
Sister Augusta Smith. We visited the quarry,
where the rock was taken from for that beauti-
ful edifice, the Temple. As we rode on I looked,
I gazed, I admired the grandeur of the scenery
which surrounded us. Said I, "The Lord has
made this place on purpose for a Temple, 'Where
the wicked shall cease from troubling, and the
weary can be at rest;' and where the Saints
could be permitted to build their Temple and go
in and out in peace." How long this will last
we know not. I think it best for us to lose no
time, but improve every opportunity to work
while we have peace. Do we realize the impor-
tance of these things? I fear not.
	I visited Brother John L. Smith's family, and
enjoyed myself spendidly, for I could look around
and see samples of the ancient order, when the
Saints all had common things; that is, when
they all had the workmanship of their own
hands. For there were picture frames, bed-
steads, bureau, chairs, lounge, what-nots and
brackets, all the workmanship of their own
hands; and their ornaments were specimens
from out the earth, and their trimmings of ferns,
flowers and moss from the mountains. I really
thought their example worthy of imitation.
	I have had a great desire to understand the
United Order in its true light, and how the
Saints could have all things common among
them, and yet have order. One night after I
got home from the Temple, sleep seemed to
have fled from me; I was rehearsing over that
Scripture, "The Saints had all things common
among them. I wished to know how this could
be, and yet be order among them. These words
thrilled through my senses: The Saints all had
common things; they were not puffed up in
pride one above another, some sitting on im-
ported stuffed chairs while others must sit on
wooden stools. No indeed; there were no poor
among them, and because of their union and
industry they became exceedingly rich. Then
some began to put on gold, and silks, and fine-
twined linen, and to be puffed up in pride one
above another; then they very soon strayed
from the right path, and set up churches of

[Column 2]
their own, and went into all manner of wicked-
ness. Hence, the necessity of the United Order.
