MEETING AT SPANISH FORK.

	The Primary Association of this place held its
second annual meeting Saturday, October 23.
The President, Mrs. Mary Ann McLean, had in-
vited Sisters Louie Felt, Mary A. Freeze and
Clara Conrad, from Salt Lake City, with Pres.
Zina Y. Williams and her Counselors,Miss Nancy
Smoot and Mary John, from Provo, who, with
the exception of Sister Williams, who was un-
avoidably detained, were all present, and ex-
pressed the greatest pleasure and gratification
at the reception they met, and at the cordial and
hearty welcome they received. Sister McLean
and her mother had prepared a sumptuous din-
ner, to which many of her friends had been in-
vited to meet our sisters before named; among
these were Bishop George D. Snell and wife.
At the dinner table some verses of welcome
were read, written for the occasion by Hannah
Cornaby, at the request of Sister M. A. McLean.
(We publish the first and last verses:)

"We welcome you to Spanish Fork,
	With a welcome warm and true;
And heartfelt is the greeting
	We now extend to you.
'Tis very pleasant thus to meet,
	Amid life's busy throng,
With those who, like ourselves, desire
	To help God's work along.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"We trust your little visit here
	To you and us may prove
A happy interchange of thought,
	Of friendship and of love;
That you may take back to your homes
	Some kindly thought from here;
That we may hold your memory sweet,
	Our interview most dear."

	After dinner our party went to the meeting
house, which had been very tastefully decorated
with flowers and very charming autumn foliage,
also some beautiful specimens of children's
fancy work and quilts, and fruit and vegetables,
products of the boys' labor.
	The children assembled at two p. m., with
beaming, happy faces; many of the parents and
friends of the little ones were present. It was
really wonderful to see the promptness with
which the children went through the various
parts assigned them. One essay, on Truth, read
by Miss Mary Swenson, was excellent, and
called forth remarks of approbation from the
visitors. A duet, sung by Master Andrew an[-]
Miss Margaret Morgan, was admirable, also a
song by Miss Lizzie Hitchens, who was accom-
panied by her father on the violin. Questions
on the organization of the Church and the first
principles of the Gospel were answered very
promptly by the little ones. The Lord's prayer
and verses on the duty of man were given in
concert,besides various other exercises,performed
in a manner which reflected much credit on
their president and her assistants.
	Mrs. Louie Felt addressed the meeting, prais-
ing and encouraging the little ones; engaging
their attention by her pleasing and lovable
manner.
	Mrs. Mary Freeze, in her happy and interest-
ing style, riveted the attention of young and
old, while words calculated to do much good fell
from her lips.
	Miss Nancy Smoot, though suffering from a
severe cold, very cheerfully responded to a re-
quest to address the children, which was done in
a very humble and childlike spirit, telling of her
great happiness in being present on this occa-
sion. Expressed her inability to describe the
joy and pleasure she felt while listening to the
exercises of the children; gave some good coun-
sel and prayed that the blessing of God might
rest on the little ones.
	Miss Mary J. John followed with some suita-
ble remarks, very modest and simply sweet,
which from one so young were exceedingly
pleasing.
	Miss Priscilla Lewis, Secretary of the Temple
Fund, read the names of the children who had


contributed since last January, making a sum
total of $9.80, in sums ranging from one egg to
sixty cents. Some very pretty cards, as rewards
of merit, were presented to the larger children,
while smaller ones were given to every child
present. Our Association numbers 235 mem-
bers. The second annual meeting will be a time
long to be remembered by the happy little ones.
	Our city friends stayed several days in Span-
ish Fork attending meetings, visiting friends
and doing good. We wish such visitors would
come often.			HANNAH CORNABY.


