HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. M. E. RANDALL has opened a boarding
department in connection with her select school,
in Morgan College Building. For particulars
apply to M. E. Randall, College Building, 14th
Ward, Salt Lake City.

	TRANSLATE the sense of Scripture into your
lives, and expound the Word of God by your
work. Interpret it by your feet and teach it by
your fingers. That is, let your workings and
your walkings be Scripture exposition, as living
epistles read and known of all men.

	WE had a very pleasant call from John A.
Blake, Member of Parliament, House of Com-
mons, and his wife Mrs. Adelaide M. Blake.
They manifested much interest in the Mormon
question, politically and socially as well as religi-
ously. Mrs. Blake was anxious to gather all the
information she could as subject matter for a
book she intends publishing after her return
home.

	SISTERS Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D.
Young left this city Monday morning, Novem-
ber 8th, by the Utah Southern Train enroute
for St. George. They will visit some of the set-
tlements by the way; expect to meet with the
Relief Societies Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary
Associations at Fillmore, Scipio, Beaver and
other places, where it is practicable to do so.
We sincerely wish them a pleasant journey and
much joy in their interesting labors.

	THE "Juvenile Instructor" of the present
month is certainly an interesting number. On
the first page is a picture of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple as it will be when completed. The article
upon Temples is very good. The second wood-

[Column 2]
cut is an "Eastern Money-Lender," and gives
the child a good idea of the oriental manner of
transacting business at that period. Every home
in the Territory should have a copy of this use-
ful magazine in it, for the children. The music
is always good, and helps the little ones along in
that branch of instruction.

	A GRAND Concert was given in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Monday evening, by Zion's
Musical Society. The singers and performers
were mostly amateurs, and of course one must
remember they are new beginners in criticising
their efforts. The cultivation of music is refin-
ing and elevating, and as there is much musical
ability which needs developing among the youth,
we hope that there will be every avenue open
for them to receive instruction,and perfect them-
selves in this pleasing and inspirational science;
and that due praise and encouragement may be
awarded them, instead of severe criticism, in
their attempts to appear before the public.

	WITH the last company of Saints from Liver-
pool, who arrived in this city Nov. 11, were sev-
eral Elders returning from their missions; among
them Elder John Nicholson, who has been ab-
sent more than two years. While in England
Bro. Nicholson was engaged in editing the Mil-
lennial Star, which he did in a very able
manner. Bro. Nicholson has also published
some interesting tracts in the interest of the
Church, setting forth some of the principles in a
clear and forcible manner. These tracts have
been widely distributed, and no doubt sown
much good seed in the hearts of honest men
and women. In addition to his literary work
he has labored in the ministry whenever it was
expedient for him, attending Conferences and
meetings in various parts of England and Scot-
land. We are pleased to see our brother again,
and cordially join with his many true and warm-
hearted friends in welcoming him back again to
his mountain home and the bosom of his family.

	"A String of Pearls," is the happy title of a
new book for children, just out, published at the
"Juvenile Instructor" office, and is the secondbook of what is termed the "Faith Promoting
Series" of books, suitable to place in the hands
of the children of the Latter-day Saints, to en-
courage them in the faith of the Gospel, and
stimulate them to similar good works. To show
them that the gifts, blessings and powers of the
Church of Jesus Christ are the same now as in
former days, when Jesus was upon the earth.
We heartily recommend this neat little book to
the little folks, and hope they will peruse it with
pleasure and benefit. The first two chapters
are "Among the Poncas," a tribe of Indians in
Western Iowa, and are exceedingly interesting;
it is the personal experience of one of our good
brethren, and every word is true; children, there
is no fiction about it. The next part is entitled
"Anecdotes of Elder Grant," by an able and
entertaining writer, which cannot fail to make
a good impression; "Missionary Incidents, Jour-
ney Across the Plains," by President John Tay-
lor; then follows "Story of a Hat," "Cases of
Miraculous Healing," and other subjects of equal
significance are treated upon; all being personal
experiences of the Elders. Now, if we could be
permitted to offer a suggestion, we should say
that these books are more especially suitable
for boys, although girls may be greatly benefit-
ted by reading them; yet they will not be so at-
tractive for them as something of a more wo-
manly style. There are many women whose
lives are full of rich personal experience, testi-
monies of the power of God in healing, and
thrilling incidents that, were they written up in
a pleasing style and published, would be produc-
tive of great good no doubt. It is just as essen-
tlat that the little girls have faith in God and in


the principles of the Gospel as the little boys.
They are to be the future wives and mothers;
the foundation of faith, virtue, integrity and
honor needs to be securely laid in their hearts,
that they may do their proportion of the impor-
tant work which must necessarily devolve upon
the coming race, now growing up in these val-
leys.


