ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
(Continued.)
	In our last we referred to the suffering and
sickness upon the way in the journey to the
valley, Amid these scenes Sister Eliza was
like a ministering angel, carrying with her to
the bedside of the afflicted that peaceful spirit
which ever soothes and consoles, and the living
faith which encourages and renews spiritual
strength, lifting one above pain and sorrow into
an atmosphere of divine love and hope. It seem-
ed a part of her mission to build up and inspire
faith in  those who were cast down; thus did
strength, lifting one above pain and sorrow into
an atmosphere of divine love and hope. It seem-
ed a part of her mission to build up and inspire
faith in those who were cast down; thus did
she minister to many, ever patient, hopeful
and full of integrity, cheerful under the most
adverse circumstances and brave in the hour
of danger. Her words of comfort and sublime
prayers are remembered by many,whose hearts
overflow with gratitude for her spiritual help
in the hour of adversity.
	Towards the latter part of the journey the
Saints who were traveling westward began to
hear of the pioneers, and the discovery of the
Salt Lake Valley. On the 4th, of August
several of the Mormon Battalion returning to
Winter Quarters met the Pilgrim companies,
and joyful indeed was the surprise and greeting,
for they were husbands, brothers and sons of
women, who were in those companies. No pen
can describe the scene; in the heart of a great
uncultivated wild and barren plain, the meet-
ing of loved ones, who had been so long separ-
ated. Next came an express from the valley,
and soon after the main body of the pioneers
returning from their memorable pilgrimage.
At the Sweet Water river a feast was made in
honor of the meeting by Apostle John Taylor
(now President of the Church) which has
always been spoken of as "the royal feast;" it
was a time of general rejoicing, thanksgiving
and praise. The next day the pioneers met
Capt. J. M. Grant's company in which Sister
Eliza was traveling, and on this suggestive oc-
casion she addressed to President Young and
camp a poem, which was publish in full. Indeed
her pen was like that of a  ready  writer, and
her thoughts flowed in  poetical rhythm.  The
song  was  written  between the Platte
and Green Rivers.
"Hail! ye mighty men of Isreal,
Who the hiding place have found:
The Eternal God has bles! you—
You have stood on holy ground.
CHORUS.
Praise the Lord! we're glad to meet you!
Welcome, welcome on your way—
Yes, O yes, with songs we greet you,
Pioneers of  Latter-day.
A choice land of old appointed
For the house of Israel's rest,
You have found and consecrated—
Through your blessing 'twill be blest.
CHORUS. Praise the Lold &c.
Holy, free and unpolluted,
Will that land for us remain?
While the sacred laws of justice
There the Saints of God mantain.
CHORUS.
Go return to Winter Quarters—
Go in peace and safety too;
There the purest hearts are beating,
Warm with hopes of seeing you.
CHORUS.
We will onward to  the valley—
Speed your way—make haste and come,
That ere long with joy and gladness,
We may bid you WELCOME HOME.
CHORUS.
	On that night  when  the  pioneers were en-
camped with Capt. Grant's company about fifty

[Column 2]
horses were stolen by the Indians. Bells were
cut and also lariats, and an arrow was picked
up; these were considered sure indications of
Indians. The trail was discovered and twenty
horsemen started out in pursuit of the missing
animals. They returned at night with five of
the horses the others were never recovered.
However they divided with each other and
fitted up as well as they could and proceeded
onward—the pioneers taking the homeward
route. The remainder of the way was tedious,
insufficiency of teams, weariness and the many
perplexities that are to be encountered in a long
journey over an unsettled country; sometimes
no feed for the poor, tired animals and some-
times no water, but God was with his people.
He did not forget them in their hour of trial
and they arrived safely in the valley early
in the month of October.
	President Young had arranged that Sister
Eliza should take up her abode with Mrs. Clara
D. Young, who had accompanied him in his
pioneer journey, therefore on her arrival she
left the family of Brother Pierce and has ever
since resided under Pres. Young's roof. The
first winter in the valley 1847 and 48, was
delightful, mild and  pleasant; the people were
able to procure the logs and build their houses,
plow, sow and prepare for spring wheat, go to
the canon  for  wood, and in fact, perform all
the labors necessary. Everything was done ex-
perimentally, but circumstances favored
them; and health prevailed. The houses were
built of logs and were  enclosed  in  form of a
fort, with all the  doors and  windows  looking
into the yard;  they were  covered  with  willows
and earth, and  were  nearly  flat-roofed, for it
seemed to  be the  impression  there  would be
little or no rain.  In one of these rustic  homes
Sister Eliza passed her  first year in the valley;
the climate seemed to agree with her, her health
was very much improved and her hands as well
as her brain  were constantly employed; her pen
was busy  also, and  many were  the  effusions
written at that time;  the  sisters  looked  up to
her for comfort and sympathy, with  the great-
est reverence  knowing  that  she had  been  for
years associated with the Prophet  Joseph.
	Shortly after  the  Saints  numbering six
hundred, arrived in  the  valley, a tall  liberty
pole was erected, and the  flag which had been
preserved with the greatest care  was  flung to
the mountain   breeze.   Sister  Eliza  says she
gazed  upon it proudly, "and  from its summit
the stars  and stripes seemed to  float with even
more significance, if  possible, than  they  were
wont to do on Eastern  breezes." A feeling  of
independence  and  true spirit of liberty from
bondage and   oppression, pervaded her bosom,
she  had passed through  so much persecution,
that now, although an exile from the home of
her  forefathers, the boasted land of liberty, she
gloried in the  freedom  which this mountain re-
teat seemed  to offer the exiled Saints, and she
gave expression to her enthusiasm in verse.
"I love that flag.  When in my childish glee—
A prattling girl upon my grandsire's knee—
I heard him tell strange tales, with valor  rife,
How that same flag was bought with blood and life.
And his tall form seemed taller when he said,
Child for that flag thy grandsire fought and bled.
My young heart felt that every scar he wore,
Caused him to prize that banner more and more,
I caught the fire, and as in years I grew,
I loved that flag; I loved my country too.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
There came a time that I remember well—
Beneath the stars and stripes we could not dwell!
We had to flee; but in our hasty flight
We grasped the flag with more than mortal might;
And vowed although our foes should us bereave
Of all things else, the flag we would not leave.
We took the flag and journeying  to the West,
We wore its motto graven on each breast."
