A PLEASANT VISIT TO SPANISH
FORK.

	On Saturday morning, Oct. 28, in company
with two sisters, I left this city for the purpose
of visiting, by invitation, the Primary Mutual
Improvement Associations of Spanish Fork at
their annual meeting. The day was clear and
bright and all nature seemed smiling as we
stepped on board the U. S. Train. Soon we
were steaming through fields and over streams,
stopping at the different settlements, where we
saw many familiar faces. On our arrival at
Provo we were met by the President, Sister
Zina Y. Williams, and counselors, Sisters
Nancy Smoot and Mary Johns, of the P. M. I.
A. of Utah Stake. Sister Williams had an-
other engagement, but her counselors accom-
panied us on our journey.
	Upon our arrival at Spanish Fork we were
met by Bishop Snell and the President of the
P. M. I. A., Sister McLean. We were invited
to the residence of the President,where we par-
took of a sumptuous dinner, in company with
a goodly number of the brethren and sisters of
that flourishing town. After dinner Sister
Cornaby read a beautiful poem, composed by
her in honor of our visit, after which we pro-
ceeded to the meeting house, where we found
upwards of three hundred children, with their
parents awaiting our arrival. The house had
been nicely decorated with fancy work by the
children of the Association, for the occasion.
	The very best of order was observed by the
children during the exercises. It seemed al-
most incredible that so many, and such young
children could be so quiet and attentive. The
exercises were well rendered, and spoke well
for the president and her counselors. The an-
swers to questions were promptly and correctly
given by all. Particular mention should be
made of the singing by the small children,
which was a most enjoyable feature of the en-
tertainment. At the close of the exercises the
visitors spoke a few words of encouragement
to the children, urging them to attend regu-
larly their meetings, ever hearken to the coun-
sel of their president, and always observe the
same good order and attention as at that meet-
ing.
	Prizes were then distributed to the children
according to their attendance, which seemed to
give universal satisfaction; the same good order
prevailed during the awarding of the prizes.
After the close of the meeting we returned to
Sister Mc Lean's where refreshments were
served and the evening was spent in social con-
versation, singing and listening to more gems
from the gifted pen of Spanish Fork's Poetess.
Thus began a week of intellectual feasting.
Every house seemed open. Every table groaned
under the bounties of Utah's prolific soil.
Every sister's arms were open to welcome and
make our stay pleasant. When the time for
our return arrived, regrets were expressed by
all that we must separate, and all wafted a
"God bless you" after us as the train bore us
homeward.
	Thus ended one of the most pleasant times,
in one of the most pleasant places, and among
the most pleasant brethren and sisters, that we
had ever spent, one long to be remembered.
Friends and acquaintances formed never to be
forgotten; and with my sisters, I pray God to
bless the Bishop, the President, the children,
the parents, and all who contributed to make
ours "a pleasant visit to Spanish Fork"
									L. B.


THE PLEASURE OF HOPE: When the body
is bowed with pain an intense longing for re-
lief brings hope. This may brighten the suffer-
ing but it does not cure. At a time like this
how welcome is such a friend as Warner's Safe
Kidney and Liver Cure, bringing home health
and happiness and the joys of a renewed life.


