LACK OF SPIRITUALLY.

	This, the enlightened nineteenth century, is
termed, not inappropriately, the "age of reason."
Everything must be demonstrated positively, and
clearly elucidated by square and compass, or
some equally tangible method, or the world re-
jects it as false. Men have grown so exceedingly
wise and learned in science that without any
direct communication from heaven they are
able, in their own estimation, to settle all ques-
tions that may arise, or solve any problem, how-
ever difficult. This spirit seems to have impreg-
nated the minds of the majority of the human
family in all cl[-]sses of sociey, and crushed out
the spiritualily which existed in former times,
and which gives to men and women a sublimity
of character that lifts them into an atmosphere
of light and hope, that reaches into the future,
opening up the glories of the life beyond. The
cultivation of the spiritual sense or faculties
strengthens faith in God and in the efficacy of
prayer; and when fully developed in its intensity
opens up a channel of communication which
may be termed inspiration, or revelation; bring-
ing hidden things to light, and piercing the
darkness of the tomb. The inspired writer, Job,
says, "Who by his reasoning can find out God?"
Spirituality is refining; wherever you find this
faculty highly developed you also find a corres-
pondingly high order of thought and aspirations.
	The desire to obtain riches and the wealth of
the world crushes out, or keeps in subjection,
this higher sense, this divinity, which should
predominate over the grosser elements of poor
human nature. It is conceded that woman's
nature is more susceptible to spiritual impres-
sions and the growth and culture of
these finer faculties than that of man,
that women possess a greater degree of the ele-
ments of character that tend heavenward that
lead to the worship of a Supreme Being. This
is absolutely proven by facts and figures such as
the world require. In sorrow and trouble woman
in most instances will cleave to religion, to pray-
er believing and trusting in God's power to bear
her up in the hour of trial and carry her safely
through the deep waters of affliction. How is it
with men? Statistical records tell us most men
seek to drown their sorrow in the poisonous
bowl, or rush madly into self-destruction. Grant-
ing this to be the case and that the rapid spread of
materialism is to be dreaded as leading to irrev-
erence of all that is holy, to unbelief in a Deity
and all that has been for ages held sacred by the
religious world, then there is good evidence that
the greater spiritual progress would be gained
through the higher elevation of woman, the
broadening of her sphere of duties and respon-
sibilities in all the departments of life.
The love that is so pure, and so self-sacrificing,
so strong in woman, reveals the exalted tone of

[Column 2]her true nature. The Savior must have consid-
ered mother love the strongest affection, for He
uses it to illustrate the divine love of the Father
of mankind for his children. "Love," the Sa-
vior said, "is of God, for God is love."
	If anything can be done to arrest the progress
of the spirit of unbelief and infidelity, which
seems to have fallen like a dark cloud upon the
the earth, men and women should exert their
utmost influence and their aid to accomplish it.
Even among the Saints who profess to have
come out from the world,this insinuating, seduc-
ing spirit is creeping in wherever a loophole or
an impregnable place can be found. Too much
pains cannot be taken to promote the growth of
faith and a love of spiritual gifts and principles
and guard every avenue that would lead to
doubt, or unbelief, as cautiously and carefully as
though they led to the most dark and fearful
chasm, and such indeed it is death, to all that
is inspiring and elevating to human character.
The child should have these spiritual impres-
sions so engraven upon its mind and heart in its
earliest and tenderest years, that they may
grow with its growth, and increase with its
strength, giving spiritual force to the elements
of character that will produce a high order of in-
telligence, and superior excellence of attain-
ment. That will grasp after the things that
pertain to a more exalted life, and thus elevate
humanity. Mothers this is your work, to thus
form and mold the infant mind. God makes
the soul, you give it the bias and impressions;
stamp it with a character that is noble and
pure, strive to eradicate selfishness and impur-
ity of whatever name or nature. Be honest
with yourself, with your own heart and draw
near to God in prayer and He will help you in
the work which is before you, the mission given
you, the great opening of a mighty realm of ac-
tion which will exalt you and yours and crown
your labors with eternal life.


[Column 1]
