A., 11 WARD.

	It is now nine years since we began the task
of remodeling ourselves—since we commenced
to realize the existence of our spiritual beings
—that life was not given us that we might eat,
sleep, make money and die, but we began to
learn the necesity of cultivating the mind, ad-
ministering to the needs of an immortal
soul and training the heart in the ways of
obedience to God, and the light of inspiration.
We caught a glimpse of a higher and more
noble object of living.
	Much has been done, but the field of labor
seems to be but just opened. How many of
the little girls who, years ago flocked to the
feast of their minds and souls, weekly prepared
for them in our little meetings are now
happy wives (notwithstanding the fact that a
large number entered the order of celestial
marriage) and are devoted mothers, all the
better qualified to discharge the holy duties of
motherhood and consequently are benefactors
to society.
	From our ranks have gone to new fields of
labor, and will still go, women whose names
will be honored as far as the sound of the Gos-
pel can reach. The seeds of their success and
honor were planted when they made their first
feeble attempt to speak in an organized capaci-
ty, and were cradled by a succession of untiring
efforts, struggling hand to hand with the powers
of darkness and the evil they were enabled to
see in themselves. And they triumphed to a
certain extent, by fasting and mighty prayer,
by singing and praising God, and count hours
as only moments?
	We scarcely stop to think seriously upon any
subject but fashion. Many of our aspirations
reach no further than the feather that floats over
our heads. Our eyes see little but the failings
of each other and our ears are open to scandal
and prejudice, while our lips are but the servants
of our idle giddy brain. We are too easily satis-
fied with ourselves and our labors. While the
great work of life rolls on constantly calling for
earnest, busy laborers in the cause of humanity,
we, in our wild mania after pleasure, rush blind-
folded past every avenue of doing good, and every
wide open door of improvement, while our
hungry, starved spiritual natures must stand
aside and wait the time when they will be al-
lowed to plead their just cause without being
forever silenced by the harsh, unfeeling voice,
of our own selfish natures. Now let us stop in
this soul and body destroying course, and listen
to the reasoning that will keep us in the ways
of peace, honor and everlasting life.
	Oh! that we the daughters of Zion would
claim our privilege in leading out in all that
is pure and refining God requires this at our
hands. Let us cultivate more true modesty
and less prudery. More sincere sisterly res-
pect and charity for each other and indulge in
less flattery, and let our daily intercourse at
home and abroad be characteristic of pure
nobility of soul. We can overcome our rough,
uncouth ways, use only chaste and elegant lang-
uage, and always manifest a respectful consid-
eration for the feelings and opinions of others.
Thus fortified we can trust ourselves in the
company of the cultured without a book of
etiquette in our pockets.
	Let us seek for that guide which would pre-
serve unsullied a spotless reputation and prevent
us from associating with the rude and wicked.
Let us take pride in maintaining the principles
of truth that shall stand when nations now
prosperous have gone to decay, fearing no rid-
icule, dreading naught but the punishment of
our offended Creator. Let us not cut our-
selves short of an inheritance with our
Heavenly Father by folly and disobedience.

[Column 2]God requires of us all that we are able to do,
and in the end our hearts will swell with ever-
lasting joy and gratitude, surpassing all mortal
comprehension.
						LILLIE FREEZE.
	Salt Lake City Oct. 18, 1880.


[Column 1]
