A DAY OF MOTHER-LIFE.

This day has been so full of cares,
	Of accidents and plans astray;
Of dust and sultry, fainting air,
	And even danger and dismay,
I gladly saw the curtain close
	About the gorgeous bed of Day;
And Night approach and bring repose.
	To call me from my toll away.

To-day my busy hands and feet
	Would need be faster though they flew—
Breakfast to set and rooms make neat.
	And washing over-see or do.
Children to dress and husband aid
	In weighty things which may not wait—
This done, one hasty kiss he gave
	And vanished through the arbor gate.

The steep and oft forbidden stairs
	The baby climbs to very top,
And twenty other mischief's dares.
	And mother's work as often stops,
And now he bumps his precious nose
	And must be petted and caressed:
His brother now has hurt his toes
	Which must be gently bathed and dressed.

The yeast thrice spilled, no tread is made,
	The fat is scorching in the pot—
The dinner very late is laid.
	And then baked apples are forgot.
We linger some for pleasant talk—
	But oh! what means that brazen glare!
That volume high of flame and smoke!
	Ah fly! the woodyard is on fire!

Then husband, I and washmaid too,
	With tubs and buckets swiftly run;
Two neighbor sisters also flew
	To help us do what could be done.
Husband pulled the cordwood down
	And flung huge blazing brands about,
While we the crackling cinders drowned
	With careful search till all were "out."

The battle won, with panting breath
	We sought again the portal shade:
	But there, the dining table left,
A housewife's heart might sore dismayed—
	Baby, left king of all the feast,
Had mixed the sugar, meat and sauce,
	The tablecloth be smeared and creased,
Two glasses lay in fragments tossed.

The dining-room is cleared at last
	And baby washed and laid to sleep;
Now here's a deep and quivering gash—
	In daughter's head—I almost weep.
At play she ran and tossed about,
	And struck against the windowsill;
Ah, daughter, you'll be careful now,
	And mother's frequent wish fulfill.

Here husband comes, and not alone.
	Two gentlemen, and strangers too;
My heart sinks down like lead or stone
	As husband whispers: Lunch for two.
No bread, no meat, and I so tired.
	But still I'll do the best I can;
The hasty meal is soon prepared,
	Dispatched and they are off again.

More accidents and incidents
	The freighted hours for me brought on,
And with my utmost diligence
	Not all my tasks at night are done
I dread to-morrows's treadmill round,
	The dull, distasteful toil it brings;
Why must I delve so near the ground?
	I long to soar on fairy wings.

I almost thought my lot was hard,
	Because the things I'd like to do
Are out of reach, my plans are marred,
[Column 2]
	And fainter grow in distance blue
The outlines of my favorite schemes
	Obscured by clouds of household care.
So dull and irksome—Nay, I dream!
	'Tis for these babies pure and fair.

With brighter thoughts and lighter heart,
	I list my darlings' evening prayer;
I think, and tears unbidden start,
	Of when death claimed one jewel rare.
I kiss and bless and lay them down—
	In innocence and peace to sleep;
If they remain I'll never frown
	Though household cares roll fathoms deep.

I'm glad and more than satisfied
	While they are happy, hale and sweet,
Though to their wants my hands are tied
	And busy serving them my feet.
Leave wider fields for those whose homes
	Are not with household jewels set;
While I before the Heavenly Throne
	Give thanks that mine are spared me yet.
								LU DALTON.
St. George, Aug. 1880.


[Column 1]
