SUGGESTIVE DAYS.

	These are the days suggestive of sentiment,
of thoughtfulness and reflection days full of
poetical meaning. The gay livery of nature,
the brightness amd glory of summer has left
us for a little season; the flowers are gone, save
here and there a few of a harder kind, chrys-
anthemums and dahlias; the verdure that cov-
ered the hill and plain is now only brown and
bare, and the dry leaves of the summer foliage
rustle under our feet at every step and awaken
melancholy or sober feelings that suggest the
decay of nature and the rude approach of cold,
stern winter.
	This is the season for nutting in those coun-
tries which abound in woods; happy groups of
boys and girls with stout shoes and strong
baskets, ramble over the hills and among the
trees, joyous and blithe, while the merry
laughter rings along the forest path and echoes
back through the brown old woods, breaking
into soft gentle ripples as it dies away along the
hills. The handsome partridges and gay
plumed pheasants flit about half frightened at
the noisy troop of young people, trying to hide
themselves in the almost leafless shrubbery.
A few poor little birds are demurely perched
on the bare branches of the trees, as thoughmeditating where to go for a green leaf and a
little sunshine. The poet, or the sentimental
writer finds plenty of subjects for his pen at
this season, as well as in the gushing spring-
time.
	The autumn leaves have lost their beautiful,
glowing tints; the frost has withered them, and
the gorgeous coloring died out, and only the
sober gray and brown, colors that always wear
well, and are suited to all weathers remain.
There are useful lessons to be learned from
the death of the flowers, the falling leaves, the
bare autumn fields; for nature, our great
mother has done her work kindly and well;
and the precious seeds are scattered, and germs
are nurtured in her tender bosom that will
spring into new life again at the approach of
the gentle maiden Spring.
	Autumnal days are retrospective; involun-
tarily our thoughts go backward: pinched by
the cold, and pierced by sharp winds, we recall
the sweet memory of summer hours, the land-
scape bare and cheerless reminds us of the lux-
urious beanty and richness of the season but
just past, when the earth itself seemed a garden
of loveliness fresh from the hand of the Great
Creator. How Nature mourns and sighs as it
were,and the echo of the sweet but solemn music
finds response in our human hearts, a tender
sympathy exists, which is stirred to its inner
fonntain, which we feel intensely although we
may not have the power of utterance to clearly
express and define it.

And is there in our hearts no sad regrets,
	No mem'ries of the last year's falling leaves?
Shall we the sweetness of the past forget,
	Or glean and garner it in mem'ry's sheaves?

	Yes memory calls up a host of recollections
as a parting requiem to the beauties of the
fields and forests, that have died out along the
mountain and over the plain. We know not
if we shall see the earth robed in beauty again,
with the same dear friends around us, the
same happy faces beaming kindly upon us, but
we do know that the principles of eternal life
remain, that whether we live or die there is a
land of light and glory and perpetual loveli-

[Column 2]
ness, where flowers never fade, or warm hearts
grow cold, and that in that shining and beauti-
ful land, now dwell some of those whose lot
was [-]nce cast with ours; who saw the summer
fade along the shadowy hills, and heard the
weird rustle of the falling leaves, and wondered
as we do now at the picture and the melanch-
oly music of the sighing breeze and ere the
Spring had blushed into bloom,were gone from
earth, and their faces no more seen among the
living.
