BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"On the 26th, A. S. Gilbert, keeper of the
Lord's storehouse, signed a letter to the gover-
nor, in connection with others, which was his
last public act; for he had been called to preach,
and he said he would rather die than go forth
and preach the gospel to the wicked Gentile
nations. The Lord took him at his word; he
was attacked with the cholera, and died about
the 29th. Brothers Erastus Rudd and Jesse
J. Smith, a cousin of the prophet, died at Bro.
Gilbert's about the same time.
	"While we were here, the brethren being in
want of some refreshments, Brother Luke
Johnson went to Brother ——— to get a fowl,
asking him for one to make a broth for Bro.
Eber Wilcox and others, but it was denied
him, Brother ——— saying, in a few days we
expect to return back to Jackson County, from
whence we were driven, and he should want
them. When Brother Johnson returned he
was so angry at ——— for refusing him he said:
"I have a great mind to take my rifle and go
back and shoot his horse." I told Luke never
mind, that such actions never fail to bring
their reward. Judge how we felt, after having
left the society of our beloved families, taking
our lives in our hands, and traveling about
one thousand miles through scenes of suffering
and sorrow, for the benefit of our brethren,
and after all to be denied a small fowl to make
a little broth for brethren in the agonies of
death. Such things never fail to bring their
reward; and it would be well for the Saints
never to turn away a brother who is penniless
and in want, or a stranger, lest they may one
day or other want a friend themselves.
	"I went to Liberty, to the house of Peter
Whitmer, which place I reached with difficulty,
being much afflicted with the disease that was
among us. I staid there until I started upon
my return home. I received great kindness
from them, and also from Sister Vienna Jaques,
who administered to my wants and also to my
brethren. May the Lord reward them for
their kindness. While I was here a council
was called, which I attended. The Church
was organized, a Presidency and High Council
chosen, and many were chosen to go to Kirt-
land to be endowed.
	"From that time the destroyer ceased, hav-
ing afflicted us about four days; sixty-eight
were attacked with the disease. Fourteen
members of Zion's Camp died, eighteen died
altogether; the remainder recovered, as we
found out an effectual remedy for this disease,
which was, by dipping the person afflicted into
cold water, or pouring it on him. Some of the
brethren, when they were seized, plunged them-
selves into the stream and obtained immediate
relief.	*	*	*	This led us to try the ex-
periment on others, and in every case it proved
highly beneficial and effectual where it was
taken in season. During our stay in Missouri,
Brother Joseph B. Noble was very sick, and
was taken care of by Elders Brigham and Jo-
seph Young at the house of Joel Sanford. It
was with great exertion that his life was pre-
served, and that by the application of cold
water, being drawn out of a well and poured
upon him daily and hourly. The sufferers in-
variably besought us to plunge them into pools
or springs of cold water, while their thirst for
the same was very great. While our fears
were it would be an injury to them, yet by the
blessing of Heaven it was the only means of
saving them that were saved from the cholera.
Brother Noble's life was yet despaired of, but
he was resolute, and nothing would satisfy him
but to return home. 	*	*
	"Brother Joseph received a revelation saying
that the Lord had accepted our offering, even
as he accepted that of Abraham; therefore, he

[Column 2]
had a great blessing laid up in store for us, and
an endowment for all; and those who had
families might return home, and those who had
no families should tarry until the Lord said
they should go.
	"I received an honorable discharge, in writ-
ing, from the hand of our General, Lyman
Wight.	*	*	*	Before we separated, the
money which had been put into the hands of
our paymaster, and had not been used, was
equally divided among the company; making
one dollar and sixteen cents each. The breth-
ren who had no money when we started from
Kirtland received an equal share with the rest.
	"June 30th I started for home, in company
with Lyman Sherman, Sylvester Smith, Alex-
ander Badlam, Harrison Burgess, Luke John-
son and Zera Cole, with Brother Sylvester
Smith's team, as I had disposed of mine.
About this time Brother Brigham Young started
with about the same number that was with me,
with James Foster's team. After proceeding
about three miles, we stopped and made ar-
rangements for traveling. They chose me to
be their captain, and all put their money into
my hands, whlch amounted to forty dollars.
From thence we proceeded until we came to
Brother Thomrs B. Marsh's; his wife gave us
some dinner, when we proceeded on our jour-ney. May the Lord bless her for it! We
crossed a branch of the Fishing River in a
scow, and when we were pnlling our wagon
out of it the scow was sinking. Here an ene-
my came and swore he would shoot us.	*	*
We pursued our journey until we came to the
Missouri River, which we crossed in a scow;
the current was so rapid that it carried us
down one mile. After we had crossed the
river and traveled about two miles. we came
into the village of Lexington, where we were
threatened some by our enemies, but the Lord
protected us. From thence we proceeded daily,
receiving no harm. We passed through the
town of St. Charles, which looked very gloomy,
as the cholera had nearly desolated the place.
After traveling about eight miles we came to
Jack's Ferry, on the Missouri, where we again
crossed the river. We then proceeded about
five miles, and stopped to take some refresh-
ments, when we were again accosted by one of
our enemies, who swore he would kill us that
night: we traveled about ten miles after sun-
set and camped in the woods. The Lord
again delivered us from the hands of our ene-
mies."
	"We proceeded on our journey daily, the
Lord blessing us with health and strength; the
weather was very hot, still we traveled from
thirty-five to forty miles a day, until about the
26th of July, when we arrived in Kirtland."
	It was Sunday when the news came to
Kirtland of the death of the brethren from
cholera, and the Saints were quietly dispersing
from afternoon meeting. I was with my
mother and Sister Eber Wilcox on the flat
opposite the Gilbert and Whitney store, when
the word came. The scene that followed no
pen can describe; the shrieks and cries of the
bereaved were heartrending, and made a vivid
and lasting impression upon my mind. We
accompanied Sister Wilcox to the house of
Bother Bond, where the night was spent in
sorrow and lamentation.
	"At this time the brethren were laboring
night and day building the house of the Lord.
Elder Rigdon, when addressing the brethren
upon the importance of building this house,
spake to the effect that we should use every
effort to accomplish this building by the time
appointed; if we did, the Lord would accept it
at our hands, and on it depends the salvation
of the Church, and also of the world. Look-
ing at the sufferings and poverty of the
Church, he frequently went upon the walls of
the building, both by night and day, and wept,
crying aloud to the Almighty to send means

[Column 3]
whereby we might accomplish the building.
After we returned from our journey to the
west, the whole Church united in this great
undertaking, and every man lent a helping
hand. Those who had not teams went to work
in the stone quarry and prepared the stones
for drawing to the house. The prophet being
our foreman, would put on his tow frock and
tow pantaloons and go into the quarry; the
Presidency, High Priests and Elders all alike
assisting. Those who had teams assisted in
drawing the stone; these all laboring one day
in the week, brought as many stones as sup-
plied the masons through the whole week.
We continued in this manner until the walls
of the house were reared.	*	*
	"In the winter of 1834-5 I attended the
Theological school established in Kirtland, in
which the lectures on Faith contained in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants originated.
A certain number were appointed to preach at
each meeting. On one occasion I was called
upon to speak on the principle of Faith. Sev-
eral brethren spoke before me and quoted
every passage mentioned in the Scriptures on
the subject; I referred to an original circum-
stance which took place in my family: My
wife, one day when going out to make a call,
gave my little daughter, Helen Mar, a charge
not to touch the dishes which she had left
standing on the table, as, if she broke any dur-
ing her absence she would give her a whipping
when she returned. While my wife was ab-
sent, my daughter broke a number by letting
the table leaf fall; and then she went out un-
der an apple tree and prayed that her moth-
er's heart might be softened, that when she re-
turned she might not whip her. Although
her mother was very punctual when she made
a promise to her children to fulfil it, yet when
she returned she had no disposition to chastise
the child. Afterwards the child told her
mother that she had prayed to God that she
might not whip her.
	"Joseph wept like a child on hearing this
simple narrative and its application, and said
it was well timed."

To be Continued.


