			SEVIER STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
in Salina Aug 21, 1909. Meeting convened
in Relief Society Hall, President Christine
Sorensen presiding. Singing by choir and
congregation, “O, blest was the day.” Prayer
by Brother T. Humphrey. Singing; “Once
more my soul the rising sun.”
	President E. M. Humphrey of Salina wel-
comed all present and was pleased to see the
brethren present. Said let us be contented
with our surroundings.
	Stake President C. W. Sorensen spoke
of duties in Relief Society work; there are
many different branches for us to talk
about, mentioned the Nurse School.
	The secretary read from the Exponent
about the Nurse School, also bore faithful
testimony of blessings received while prac-
tising obstetrics in 25 years past. Encour-
aged the young sisters to attend these
classes.
	Bishop Sorensen was pleased to have the
sisters hold their conferenec here, made all
welcome, hoped we enjoyed our opportuni-
ties, said the Bishopric are pleased with the
labors of the Salina Relief Society; they are
doing their duty well.
	The song, “I Have Read of a Beautiful
City” was beautifully rendered by Sister
Mary Christensen.
	Sister Caroline Nielson read a poem,
“Discontent in Church.”
	Second Counselor Caroline Bohman said
there is a great lesson to be learned in the
poem. Bore her testimony of the Gospel,
spoke of the duties of mothers in teaching
their children the ways of the Lord. There
is so much wickedness in the world. En-
couraged the sisters to gather in grain and
take care of it faithfully.
	President Martin Jenson, of Richfield,
said, “I feel timid, as it is quite recently we
brethren have joined the Relief Society.
We are appointed by our stake authorities
to give reports of the different auxiliary or-

[Column 3]
ganizations. Hope we may not be too busy
to work out our salvation. This is a school
to prepare us for glory in the celestial king-
dom in store for the faithful.”
	Singing and Benediction.
	Conference continued at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent C. W. Sorensen presiding. Singing,
“Great God attend while Zion sings.”
	Prayer by Brother Hans Godfriedsen.
	Singing, “Sweet hour of prayer.”
	Secretary M. Swindle read from Exponent
of June, 1909, “Report to National Council
of Women.”
	President C. W. Sorenson made some re-
marks on labors of N. W. R. S. Urged the
sisters to subscribe for the Exponent. We
should help this paper along, it is our paper;
spoke of the great work done by Sister E. B.
Wells, also spoke on gathering grain, en-
dorsed what Sister Bohman had said; let us
keep up this mission.
	Brother Franze, choir leader of Salina,
sang “Daughters of Zion,” by Mrs. Annie
Wells Cannon; very nicely rendered.
	Sister Mary Ann Nickerson, nearly 87
years old, gave some of her experiences. She
has belonged to the Church since she was 16
years old, knew the Prophet Joseph Smith,
shared joy and sorrow with him while he
lived. She has passed through many trying
scenes; she hopes to go and meet the Bride-
groom and never be found wanting.
	Brother L. P. Jensen, of Richfield can say
like Brother M. Jensen, he is a new member
in the Relief Society. It is a pleasure to
listen to instructions given by the sisters.
Spoke of raising our children, made some
encouraging remarks, also spoke of the
grasshopper war, endorsed what was said
about the gathering of wheat.
	Brother James Jensen, of Salina, was
pleased to be here this afternoon and hear
instructions given. It is a little over 67
years since the Relief Society was organized
and we can judge [--] it has done any good
since. Spoke of laws laid down by our
Creator, we should be governed by them,
also of the trials endured by the pioneers to
build up this great commonwealth.
	Brother Martin Jensen asked the privilege
of speaking in favor of the Exponent. Asked
how many subscribers are in the congrega-
tion? Nine hands were held up as sub-
scribers present. He said “Let us double
it,” and he headed the list with one dollar,
after which nine more subscriptions fol-
lowed. Encouraged sisters to continue to
increase subscriptions while visiting through
the stake.
	President C. W. Sorensen was truly glad
to see our conference terminate so favor-
ably and to see good brethren helping with
the Exponent; hoped we might get more sub-
scribers. She thanked the choir for sweet
music.
	After benediction conference adjourned
for three months or until further notice.
	Singing, Woman’s Battle Song, “On-
ward Christian Woman.”
	Benediction by Brother Joseph Ogden of
Richfield.
	The words for this song were composed by
the Salina Relief Society sisters.
