GENER[-]L R[-]LIEF SOCIE[-]Y CONFERENCE.

October, 1909, Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City.
	Officers Meeting, Tuesday, Oct. 5, 2 p. m.
Hymn, “Come Oh Thou King of Kings.”
Prayer.
Hymn, “Come Listen to a Prophet’s Voice.”
		Business: Miscellaneous.
Report of General Secretary,
					Emmeline B. Wells.
Report of General Treasurer,
					Clarissa S. Williams.
Solo, “Oh Loving Father,” Delriego,
	Lizzie Thomas Edward, Director of Music
			of General Relief Society.
Instructions: President Bathsheba W. Smith.
Report of Nurse Work,		Phebe Y. Beatie.
Study Lessons in Ward Meeting,
						Minnie H. James.
Solo, “Hosanna,” Granier,	Prof. Elihu Call.
The Mother and the Chid,
			Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry.
Hymn, “Love at Home.”
Prayer.
		Thursday, Oct. 7, 10 a.m.
Opening Hymn. “Lord We Come Before Thee
	Now.”
Opening Prayer,
		Representative R. S. Cassia Stake.

[Column 2]
Singing, “Hail to the Brightness, of Zion’s Glad
	Morning.”
			Presidents Address.
Greeting,
		General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells.
Response,	Representative Mary E. Hardy,
					Taylor Stake, Canada.
Music, Selected, Prof. Willard Weighe, violin,
				Prof. J. J. McClellan, piano.
Poem by Annie Pike Greenwood,
				Read by Annie Welis Cannon
					of the General Board.
Choice of Friends,
				Martha H. Tingey, President
					of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Necessity of Hygienic and Sanitary Conditions
	for the Home and the State,
				Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon.
A Plea for business methods in house keeping,
				Representative of Ogden Stake.
20 minutes Reserved.
Singing, “Doxology.”
Prayer.

		Thursday, Oct. 7, 2 p.m.
Singing, “Lord Thou Wilt Hear Me When I Pray.”
Prayer.
Overture, Edna Coray,
		Organist for the General Relief Society.
Reading of the “Hymn of the Pioneers”
		Kate Thomas, Blanche Thomas McKee.
Report of Quinquennial Congress of the Inter-
	national Council of Women at Toronto, Ca-
	nada,
		Emily S. Richards of the General Board.
Solo, Selected,			Lizzie T. Edward.
	Report of the Triennial of the National Coun-
	cil of Women at Seattle,
		Elizabeth S. Wicox of the General Board.
Report of Rigby, Snowflake and Uintah Stakes,
Solo, “The Lord Is My Light,” Francis Allitsen,
						Irma Pendleton.
Our Place in the World today,
			Annie K. Hardy of Ensign Stake.
Closing Remarks,
		General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams.
Hymn, “God Be With You Till We Meet Again.”
	“God be with you till we meet again
	By His counsels guide uphold you
	With His sheep securely fold you
	God be with you till we meet again.”
Benediction.


[Column 1]
			REMINISCE CES.
	There are some episodes connected with
Church history in the pilgrimages of our peo-
ple that are rarely mentioned, and yet they
have great significance as historical facts,
and some of them are really miracles, as
much so as those recorded in the ancient
scriptures, and yet many of our people have
never heard of these remarkable instances
manifested in the hour of great need.
	At the time of the exodus from Nauvoo,
after the first company had left, according
to an arrangement with the Federal author-
ities, with the understanding that the aged
people, the widows and those not able to
prepare for so long a journey into the
then unknown and unexplored country,
should not be molested — the mobo-
crats, who had been determined Mormons
should be exterminated or removed far from
civilization compelled all who were left in
the city of Nauvoo to cross the river into the

[Column 2]
territory of Iowa. These people were total-
ly unprepared for such an emergency and
were without the necessary clothing, bed-
ding or food, and were obliged to encamp on
the Western shore of the Mississippi and it
was the rainy season; some few had tents,
some had wagon boxes, and the larger num-
ber had only rough posts driven in the
ground and covered with quilts or pieces of
carpet for shelter; many were sick with
chills and fever, widows with young child-
ren and no protector, except the Lord and His
angels.
	The authorities of the Church, who had
left in the exodus in February had prom-
ised to send back teams to bring them from
Nauvoo, knowing the venom of the mob,
and teams were sent as soon as it could be
accomplished. Meantime the U. S. govern-
ment had asked for five hundred men from
the company who had left Nauvoo in mid-
winter, and this had very seriously weak-
ened the force of able-bodied men; but those
who were waiting for a way of deliverance
were mostly women and children, such men
as were in any way able-bodied, who had
been left to guard and protect the rights
and property of the people, had now to de-
fend the city, after removing the women and
children to a place of safety from harm
and violence, and of this there was the most
positive need, for the enemy was ready to
burn and destroy the city without mercy.
	It was at this critical time that the Lord
made manifest His watch-care to keep them
from want and starvation.
	The quails came flying overhead in flocks,
and were so tame they alighted upon the
ground or the cover of their rude shelters,
whatever they might be, so that the sick
ones could reach out their hands and take
them, and there was food to keep them
from hunger until they could be taken in
conveyances and carried towards the land
of their expectations, safe from their
persecutors.
	Many of them died by the way, ere they
reached the place of safety from their enem-
ies. The story is too pitiful to be told of
those who died by the wayside, stricken so
utterly before aid could reach them.
	It was at this crisis in the affairs of the
Mormon people that Squire Wells of Nau-
voo, an alderman of the city, at that time,
and holding a commission in the militia of
that state, laid down his arms when they
could not be used in defence of helpless
women and children, and espoused the
cause of the people so maligned and ill-
treated, sacrificing his good name among his
former associates, and what was even more
than that, his wife and only son for the
cause of rfght, in which he had implicit be-
lief.
	He knew the Prophet Joseph Smith inti-
mately and sympathized with him from the
time he came from Missouri with his follow-
ers, and settled in Commerce, afterwards
Nauvoo; he esteemed him highly, and had
plead his case on various occasions,
when he had been falsely accused, because he
realized his innocence of the accusations
that were brought against him by wicked
and designing men, just as they did the
prophets of old; but he had not made up
his mind he could make the sacrifice of his
good name and all he held dear, as one
must do who follows the divine teacher in
whatever age or clime. But now the su-
preme hour came, when he must choose be-
tween the Gospel of life and salvation, and
the world with all its allurements, and in


doing so he gave up all that was near and
dear, as the bond—home possessions, wife
and child.
	There are men and women still living who
can testify to the facts related here con-
cerning the coming of the quails in great
numbers, when the Saints who had been
driven from their homes were temporarily
encamped on the Western border of the
Mississippi river, To some of us who have
implicit faith in this Latter-day work, it
seems a positive proof of the overruling
hand of the Lord in the preservation of His
chosen people, the Israel of the present dis-
pensation of the fulness of times.


