EDITORIAL NOTE.
	One of the noted visitors to our city this
last summer was the very charming and de-
lightful writer and lecturer Mrs. Charlotte
Perkins Gilman. While here Mrs. Gilman
was the guest of Mrs. Susa Young Gates who
showed her all the interesting points of our
beautiful city and introduced her to many
of our leading and prominent men and
women. Before leaving Mrs. Gilman gave
a lecture in Barratt Hall under the auspices
of the State Council of Women and certainly
impressed her hearers with her logic, wit
and erudition. Mrs. Gilman has recently
published a book entitled “Human Work,”
a book which deals most logically with man
as a worker, and reasons in a powerful way
showing both the present status of humanity
at large and the possibility of great advance-
ment by more earnest effort especially for
women. The book teems with clever expres-
sions, advanced theories, and unanswerable
arguments and would certaiuly broaden one’s
views of life’s labor from a sociological stand-
point at least. It has been translated into
nine languages and is now being translated
into the Japanese.


[Column 1]
CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				IV.
	The writer of these chronicles realizes
that in giving these few facts in even a
crude form shows how this wonderful organ-
ization of the sisterhood of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has spread
from its small beginning into many parts of
the world, and been a helpful source of self-
education to women.
	Without either schools or teachers really;
simply by contact under the potent influence
of the spirit of the Gospel, vouchsafed to
them in their humility, much has been learn-
ed of life’s usefulness from one another.
There is no possible way of computing the
advantages and wholesome benefit resulting
from the meeting together of the few sisters
in any given locality all partaking of the
Relief Society work.
	Going backward to the first little meetings
in the different wards, where just a few, per-
haps six or seven or a dozen as the case
might be, and tracing the history of the one
or more, what has seemed almost insignificant
has grown to gigantic proportions. 
	Recently in looking over hundreds of
pages of manuscript prepared for the jubilee
of this society in 1892, the first fifty years
after its inception, we came across many
very interesting things, and it is difficult to
choose which would be the best for an illus-
tration, but we have taken a few notes from
one society.
	Rockville is a small town in Southern
Utah where the colonists who settled there

[Column 2]
had many hardships to endure and obstacles
to surmount. Like the other women of Zion
as soon as possible they came together and
were organized for mutual helpfulness and
benefit.
	This society was organized in 1868, with
110 members; the first donations were cash,
$30.00; cotton, $4.00; butter, $2.00; molasses,
$4.00.
	The minutes of the first meeting are simi-
lar to others and yet unique as given.
	The first meeting was on May 28, 1868,
and was opened by singing a hymn and
prayer; the president spoke of the motives
and duties of the sisters in the society and
made some pertinent remarks suitable to
the occasion. Sister Hannah Terry rehears-
ed some of the teachings given in Nauvoo,
Illinois, and advised all to be forward in good
works for great things would yet grew out of
the small society. Sister Jane Black and
others spoke words of encouragement. We
give the names of members with list of dona-
tions. Clarissa Terry, president, $4.00; Eliza
Smith, first counselor, $3.95; Emeline Wind-
sor, second counselor, $4.00; Mary Stocks,
secretary, $4.00; Huldah L. Bunday, $1.00;
Jane Black, $4.25; Hannah Terry, Mary Par-
ker, Mary Buchanan, each 50 cts.; Bertha
Olsen, $2.00; Lucy Demuth $1.75; Ann Jen-
nings Kizia Hall $1.50; Susan Scroggins,
$2.25; Marilla Hansen Allred, $5.00; Sarah
Farnes Eleanor Morris, $4.00; Ellen Terry,
$1.00; Sophia Foster, $2.25, Mary Black,
$2.25; Martha Stephens, $3.75; Maria Smith,
$2.85. At this meeting a visiting committee
of five was appointed.
	Meetings were held regularly and in August
a special meeting was called to discuss how
to raise means to send to St. Joseph in Ari-
zona to relieve the needs of families whose
property had been destroyed by fire. After
the collections were made the sisters met to
pack the goods and articles to be forwarded
to the distressed families. Soon after a
working meeting was held at which there
was quilting, braiding-straw, knitting and
sewing. Two quilts were finished that day.
While the work was being done Sister Jane
Black entertained the ladies with incidents
and experiences of her own life while in the
Nauvoo persecutions.
	At a subsequent meeting the sisters made
coats and vests besides quilting. The sis-
ters also did spinning and reeling, and
braiding of mats was also done, and sewing
carpet rags was a favorite pastime, as it did
not hinder conversation.
	The first annual meeting held in Rockville
the sisters considered the matter of establish-
ing a cooperative store, as they had been
advised by President Brigham Young. It
was soon accomplished, they purchased
from the 14th Ward Woman’s Cooperative
Store in Salt Lake City useful articles to
create labor, no sugar or candy, these goods
cost $49.84 and for cloth made and sold,
they realized in value $49.91.—Imagine the
industry and enterprise of these good faith-
ful sisters at that early time, when they were
400 miles from Salt Lake City, and this city
itself was only like a country town.
	In March 1871, less than three years the
report of the Society was in Property $187.45
cash, and goods $108.84. Donations and
and expenses $71.80. Articles on hand:
wheat 5 1/2 bushels, cotton 32 lbs., cotton
yarn one bunch, stocking yarn 2 lbs., woolen
yarn 30 lbs., 3 pairs stockings, 2 sets knit-
ting needles.		Kezia Hall, Sec’y.
	In those days molasses was made at home
and valued at $2.00, a gallon; corn $2.00 a
bushel and other products in proportion.

[Column 3]
	It seems almost incredible the Relief So-
ciety could make means and establish a co-
operative store under such conditions, and
take care of the sick and those who needed
nursing and help, waiting upon and assist-
ing each other in families and neighbor-
hoods. Everything had to be made by hand
and then the carding, spinning, weaving of
flax, cotton, and wool making from the raw
material, how different from the housework
today with every sort of facility and mach-
inery What wonderful changes have come
and are we really better off? The names of
such women deserve record; here are some
of the foremost ones. Henrietta Stout Keziah
Hall, Mary R. Terry, Sarah Farnes, Ellen
K. Daley, Marilla Hanson, Clarinda Lang-
ston, Mary Ann Hirschi, Clarinda J. Stout,
Fannie M. Terry, Alice A. Dalton, Alvaretta
Petty, Lydia Lemmon, Letitia Dalton and
Ellen R. Daley, Amy H. Draper, Maria
Smith, Maryette Brandage, Fannie P.
Slaughter, Hannah Jennings. Remember
these women kept a store, and kept books
of account, and it is almost incredible when
one considers how they lived, that their
penmanship and spelling was so perfect.
The manuscript from which these notes are
made is a fine specimen of writing, better
than most of the college girls of nowadays,
write or spell. These reports made at the
time of the Relief Society Jubilee are worth
keeping in the archives of the Relief Society.
Many of these women so faithful and diligent
have passed away but we honor their mem-
ory.


