		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The Yellowstone stake Relief Society
conference convened at St. Anthony, August
8, 1909, President Julia E. Miller presiding.
	There were present the Stake presidency,
several high counselors, Sisters Sarah J.
Cannon and Hattie B. Harker, of the Gener-
al Board, and Sisters Barnes and Baliff of
the Fremont Relief Society.
	The morning session commenced by sing-
ing. Prayer was offered by President Dan-
iel G. Miller. Four wards were reported as
being in good condition. President Julia
E. Miller reported the societies throughout
the stake as being in a thriving condi-
tion.
	A duet was sung by Sisters Amelia Barnes
and Katherine Flint.
	Sister Harker, of the General Board, spoke
to the sisters on the need of studying the
Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Barnes of Fremont Stake
spoke for a short time on forming char-
acter,
	After singing, benediction was pronounced
by Brother M. I. Kerr.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing.
Prayer was offered by President M. I.
Kerr.
	President Julia E. Miller welcomed the
sisters to the conference and reported the
officers as being strict observers of the word
of wisdom.
	A solo was sung by Sister Vilate Rigby.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon, of the General
Board, spoke encouragingly to the teachers
and told what a noble work was theirs.
	Sister Harker spoke for a short time on
the different duties of Relief Society work-
ers.
	Solo by Sister Emily Baliff.
	Remarks were made by President David
G. Miller, Marion J. Kerr, and Joseph E.
Fogg,
	First Counselor Mary J. Miller gave a
short talk on the storing of grain.
	After singing, benediction was pronounced
by Bishop Arnold D. Miller, Sr.
				MARY E. BROWER,
						Stake Secretary.

[Column 3]
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
Nebo Stake Relief Society held at Spanish
Fork, Utah, July 25, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 o’clock a. m.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After
opening exercises, Sister Tuttle spoke a few
words of welcome. Sister Naples, first
counselor, spoke for a short time, was glad
to see so many present, nearly all the wards
represented.
	President Dixon reported Nebo Stake Re-
lief Society, 1,039 members enrolled, aver-
age attendance, 25 per cent, 8 Relief So-
ciety halls, 9 granaries, all wards doing a
good work, and much credit was due for
the labor of the sisters in preparing the
dead for burial.
	Sister Pickering reported Payson 1st
ward in good condition. Sister Higgins of
Knightsville reported her ward all united
and doing a good work. Sister Pierce re-
ported Salem ward in good condition, their
sick well taken care of, and teachers doing
a good work.
	Song by Sister Dollie Rigdon, “The Song
my Mother used to Sing,”
	Sister Grant, member of the General
Board, spoke, thought the first duty of
mothers was to take care of their children,
for they are the only things we can take
with us when we leave this life, was well
pleased with the report of the work being
done in this stake, advised us to keep our
books well, that we may have credit for
what we are doing, gave words of encour-
agement to the sisters in their labors,
	Sister H. B. Harker, one of the members
of the General Board, was pleased to see so
many young mothers present, thought it
would be an injustice to leave the Relief So-
ciety work all to the older sisters. The
place for the young mothers is in the Relief
Society, for they can get useful instructions
in rearing their children, advised sending
out special missionaries to increase our at-
tendance, said we are blessed only as we
bless others.
	Song by a sister from the 4th ward of
Spanish Fork, “Always take Mother’s
Advice.”
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	At 2 p. m. conference reconvened, Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After open-
ing exercises, a lesson was given by Sister
Jane Bradford on the subject of prayer, Sis-
ter Markham on the effect of prayer; Sister
Hughes, when and how to pray; Sister
Roach, value and habit of prayer.
	Song, Sister Sadie Louis, “My Faith in
Thee.”
	Sister Grant said the things we had list-
ened to were beautiful. Gave some of her
early day experiences, had known all of the
prophets of the Church, was 12 years old
when Joseph Smith was martyred, was ac-
quainted with the prophet and knew him
well, he was a more noble looking man
than any of his pictures portray. Said we
do not always appreciate the Gospel as we
should; she was a pioneer of ’47. Spoke
some time on faith, related circumstances
on that subject; thought we should teach our
children the word of wisdom by example
and to honor those who are placed over
them, honor those in authority. Sister
Grant was 77 years old July 25, 1909.
	Recitation by Sister Hannah Hansen,
“Listen to Mother.”
	Sister Harker said we are all brothers and
sisters, and family ties are very strong; we


[Column 1]
should work as not only Relief Society work
but God’s work, we can accomplish a great
work through the help of the Lord.
	Bishop McKell was well pleased with the
remarks that had been made; asked the
blessing of the Lord on the stake officers.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
and thanked the people of Spanish Fork for
their kindness.
	Conference adjourned for three months by
singing, and benediction by Sister Baxter.
