		BINGHAM STAKE.
	Our conference of Bingham stake con-
vened in Idaho Falls, July 14, 1909, in the
L. D. S. Church at 10 a. m. President El-
vira C. Steele presiding.
	Opened with singing and prayer by Patri-
arch R. L Bybee; minutes and roll call by
Stake Secretary Jensine Johansen, and there
was a very good representation of all the
wards.
	The Stake Board of thirteen were all pres-
ent but one and she was excused.
	President Steele reported the Relief Socie-
ty work progressing nicely, felt more than
pleased to have Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon
and Minnie H. James of the General Board
with us.
	After hearing reports from some of the
wards, which were very good, Sister Cannon
was introduced; was delighted with the
beautiful place to meet in and gave us just
the good Relief Society talk we were need-
ing; advised mothers to take good care of
their children, and bring them to meetings;
said many other beautiful things, etc.
	Sister Minnie James was introduced; felt
she was not gifted as her noble mother was
in speaking, but gave us same very good
talk in her pleasing way, urged all to be
more diligent in this great and good work,
that our beloved Prophet Joseph had organ-
ized for us; let us appreciate this fact and
go on our way with love in our hearts for all
mankind.
	Patriarch Robert L. Bybee felt we were
highly favored of the Lord, we should listen
to and put in practice the good things we
hear and may the Lord bless us all to do
His will.
	After singing and benediction by Bishop
C. W. Rockwood conference adjourned until
2 p. m.
	The sisters of Idaho Falls entertained all
present, “in the basement,” to a delicious
banquet where all enjoved themselves soci-
ally and had a lovely time and especially in
the company of our visitors, Sisters Cannon
and James.
	Met again at 2 p. m. After the usual
exercises we again listened to some very
good reports; the house was almost filled
with smiling faces. President Heber C.
Austin and Bishop Wright were also present.
	Sister Cannon again addressed us in her
motherly way, which reached all; bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, also of
having seen the Prophet Joseph Smith when
a child, etc., etc.
	Sister James again spoke to us, related
some of her early remembrances in the lives
of some of our leaders and particularly the
relating of the first vision of the Prophet
Joseph by himself to her mother, and many
other beautiful things.
	Counselors Sisters Rockwood and Brunt
each expressed themselves as being well
pleased with our conference, trusted we
would profit by the good things we had
heard.
	President Austin felt pleased with the

[Column 2]
spirit of the meetings, felt to especially im-
press upon all the plan of living within our
income and providing ourselves with wheat,
or flour for at least one year ahead, and desired
to have wives use their influence with their
husbands to this end and said may the Lord
bless you in all your labors, etc.
	A solo was rendered by Jos. Morley.
	Bishop Rockwood of Iona felt that he was
a Relief Society Bishop, as he generally at-
tended these conferences and was very
pleased to do so, appreciated the work of
the Society, urged a little more strict atten-
tion to the needs of the poor; and looking
after the wheat and the proper care of it,
and advised many other good things.
	Miss Beatrice Pike sang a most beautiful
solo.
	President E. C. Steele felt to thank all
who had assisted in making our conference
so enjoyable, especially the ladies of Idaho
Falls for their banquet, under the able man-
agement of President Shippen.
	Singing the song called “Idaho,” chorister
Mary A. Holden; prayer by Bishop Wright
of Lincoln.
		ELVIRA C. STEELE, President.

