						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	The following letters of condolence were
sent by the Waterloo Ward Relief Society
after the severe losses sustained by two of
its members, one losing within two weeks a
husband and beautiful daughter, and the
other her husband.

Dear Sister Goss:—
	We, the officers, and members of the Re-
lief Sociesy desire to express to you our
heartfelt sympathy in the double loss that
has recently come to you. We realize dear
sister that words are but feeble, in giving
comfort in this hour of great trial, for well
we know that only He, who guards the lilies
of the field can give you that comfort and
support, which you really need at this try-
ing time and He will, we promise you, if
you but go to Him in humble prayer.
	In the passing away of Brother Goss,
whose life was already well spent, and who
had for so long been a great sufferer, we feel
sure you can acknowledge the hand of our
Father. And how thankful we mothers
should bo when we can see our loved part-
ners laid peacefully away, after years of en-
deavor, full of faith in Jesus Christ, and the
Gospel so dear to us all.
	On he other hand the loss of your dear
Louise must indeed be hard for you. Not
only her sweet, loving, unselfish influence
will be missed by you, but the substantial
financial aid she has been able, through her
untiring efforts as a nurse, to give you.
Truly it does seem that the young, loving,
useful children might be spared to comfort
and bless the parents as age creeps upon
them in return for the many sacrifices made
by them. But God knoweth best. We must
bow in submission to His will and surely
He will not fail in making up to those who
trust Him that which now must seem an
aching void. Thank Him that you still
have other children who will rally round
you perhaps as never before, to take the
place in a measure of her now gone

[Column 2]
beyond. And when the question “Why”
comes, as it often will, read long and ponder
the words of Isaiah 37, wherein he says,
the righteous aro taken from the evil that is
to come. Surely Louise, in all her purity is
one of these. Your husband too, now sing-
ing songs of praise with her, in mansions
far beyond would not return, nor would we
call them back. God bless and comfort you
dear Sister. May the dying words of your
beloved husband that, we your sisters keep
you busy in the Relief Society work, find
echo in your soul, that you may always be
with us in our glorious cause is the earnest
prayer and desire of your sisters
			HELEN M. SPERRY,
			MARIA S. LIDDLE,
			MARTHA THOMPSON,
		Presidency Waterloo Relief Society.

Dear Sister Burrows:—
	In the recent trial that has come to you,
in the passing away of your beloved part-
ner, and husband, we the sisters of the
Waterloo Relief Society desire to express
our sympathy and love for you as a fellow-
worker among us for many years. And we
say God bless and comfort you in your afflic-
tion. And we promise you He will. May
your own bodily suffering cease, and may
peace and joy fill your soul. May you live
yet long—so long as life be desirable unto
you—to do much good. And may you be
privileged to meet with us again—none will
be more welcome. And may your hours of
loneliness be filled by earnest contemplation
of the word of God, and the glorious wel-
come that will await you when united in the
great beyond with your loving and devoted
husband, who perhaps even now, is prepar-
ing for you an heavenly abode at his side.
	In much love we subscribe ourselves
					Your Sisters
			HELEN M. SPERRY,
			MARIA S. LIDDLE,
			MARTHA THOMPSON,
		Presidency Waterloo Relief Society.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
at Diamondville July 8, 1909, Stake Presi-
dent Sara Tyson presiding. Visitors from
the General Board Sisters Susan Grant and
Minerva E. Knowlton, president Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake. Stake President Ty-
son was glad to meet the sisters, felt hon-
ored at the reception given, knew that we
would have a good time and drink in the
good spirit, spoke at length on fault-finding,
humility and love.
	President Lizzie Palmer, of Cumberland,
gave a good report. President Christina
Wall, of Lyman, President Nina Wright of
Kemmerer, gave good reports, all felt well.
	Stake President S. Tyson said there would
not be any report from Rock Springs, but
had visited there lately; found that the pres-
dent had moved to Ogden and the society
disorganized, but they had done a good
work in the past. Reported Evanston as
doing a grand work in the Relief Society. It
is a labor of love with them.
	Sister Susan Grant enjoyed this beautiful
morning in meeting with the sisters and
Latter-day Saints, encouraged the young
sisters to attend the Relief Society, also the
boys should learn something about this
grand organization. Spoke at length on

[Column 2]
prayer in the home, and how it should be
attended to in the family, said we learn to
do by doing and the more we do in the
Relief Society, the more we want to, we
should be brave and united and encourage
each other to good works, get the Spirit of
tha Lord and keep it, prayed the Lord to
bless all.
	Sister M. E. Knowlton took pleasure in
her labors in the Church. Thought there
was too much worldly pleasure, there were a
great many more good girls than there were
boys. The Gospel and our families were
the most precious things to us, felt honored
to visit with Sister Grant and talk to the sis-
ters, wished the house was full, she appre-
ciated her position and the work she had to
do, always wanted to be a worker in the
Church and progress with it, spoke on the
word of wisdom, and the necessity of living
it. Encouraged the sisters to be charitable
to each other and love one another.
	Brother Henry Voss of Lyman was glad
to hear the instructions given by the sisters
spoke of the parents class, thought singing
and prayer in the home was a great privil-
ege.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session of Relief Society con-
ference. After the usual exercises, Stake
President S. Tyson said we had had an ex-
cellent time this morning, and the Lord was
with us just as much in these days as He
ever was.
	Stake Counselor Alice Jackson said that
through faith we could draw out from the
speaker what we most wish to hear. She
had many testimonies of the Gospel and
wished to hold fast the good work, urged the
sisters to perform their part and not waste
their opportunities to do good, prayed the
Lord to bless the sisters here.
	Sister Susan Grant spoke upon the bless-
ings of the Gospel, enjoyed her visits to this
stake of Zion and the association of the
noble sisters she met; had the privilege of
knowing the Prophet Joseph Smith, wished
to impress it upon the minds of the young
people here, and we should look for good-
ness and not find fault. Spoke at length on
the principle of faith and its results, wanted
to live a long and useful life in the Church;
read a pamphlet on the Nurses Class given
through the Relief Society, wished to bless
and encourage the sisters in the great work
of relief.
	Sister M. E. Knowlton said she wished
with all her heart that she might be the
mother of missionaries, we had enjoyed a
good time in this conference, said faith was
the gift of God, there were times when we
were sorely tried, and sometimes blessings
are given to us that we do not understand.
Spoke of charity for each other and of the
tendency of women to refuse motherhood, a
mother’s mission is the greatest mission we
can have, the Lord will bless the faithful
mothers. May we increase in faith and
love for one another.
	Brother Hyrum B. Perry spoke upon the
power of faith and love.
	Brother Alvin Jackson, missionary,
thought a great deal had been said that
would make us better men and women; said
woman can make a heaven on earth if she
puts forth her best efiorts. He had been
blessed in this new mission field.
	President S. Tyson made a few closing
remarks and blessed the sisters in their la-
bors of love.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Benediction by Brother Henry
Voss.			KATE EPPICH, Sec.


