back, for the palsied hands it gives to toil;
for its wounds to genius, for the tragedies of
its might-have-beens. I hate it for the hu-
man wrecks it has caused. I hate it for the
alms-houses it peoples, for the prisons it
fills, for the insanity it begets, for the count-
less graves in potter’s fields.
	It hate it for the mental ruin it imposes
upon its victims, for its spiritual blight, for
its moral degradation. I hate it for the
hearts it has broken. I hate it for the mal-
ice it has planted in the hearts of men—for
its poison, for its bitterness—for the dead
sea fruit with which it starves their souls.
	I hate it for the grief it causes womanhood
—the scalding tears, the hopes deferred, the
strangled aspirations, its burden of want and
care.
	I hate it for its heartless cruelty to the
aged, the infirm and the helpless; for the
shadow it throws upon the lives of children,
for its monstrous injustice to blameless little
ones.
	I hate it as virtue hates vice, as truth
hates error, as righteousness hates sin, as
justice hates wrong, as liberty hates tyranny,
as freedom hates oppression.
	I hate it as Abraham Lincoln hated slav-
ery. And as he sometimes saw in prophetic
vision, the end of slavery and the coming
of the time when the sun should shine and
the rain should fall upon no slave in all the
republic, so I sometimes seem to see the
end of this unholy traffic, the coming of the
time when, if it does not wholly cease to be,
it shall find no safe habitation anywhere be-
neath “Old Glory’s” stainless flag.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 16.)
	A young girl about 20 years of age,
Emily Fuller, was staying for a few days at
Brother Homer Blakesley’s, our presiding
Elder’s house; she was taken violently ill
and kept on getting worse until finally she
went into convulsions; she was a good
Latter-day Saint but it seemed the evil one
was determined to destroy her; Brother
Blakesley had gone away to fill an appoint-
ment 18 miles from home; there was not an
Elder within 14 miles; at last this Elder
Thomas Dutcher was sent for to come and
administer to this girl; it had now been
about twenty-four hours since she was taken
ill, every thing that could be done for her
was done but of no avail; the evil spirit
raved in cramping her body. She was in
this state when Brother Dutcher came; he
immediately repaired to a room alone and
prayed mighty for faith and strength in God
that he might have power to rebuke the des-
troyer; and when he came out and went into
the room to her bedside he laid his hands
upon her head and with the authority of a
man clothed upon with the spirit and power
of the Priesthood of God commanded her
to arise and be made whole from that mo-
ment; she obeyed and arose although very
weak, she called for water to wash and a
comb to arrange her hair and was indeed
healed; she became well. This fact I bear

[Column 2]
testimony of and there is nothing but truth in
this statement and I think it is in place to
mention it in my narrative.
	Brother Joseph Smith, the Prophet, had a
gathering place for the Saints in Kirtland,
Ohio, where the Saints were beginning to
gather and had begun to build a Temple as
they had been commanded in the spring of
1835; we felt that we with one or two others
in the branch would like to gather to this
place, consequently began making prepara-
tions to go to Kirtland. We had visited
Herkimer Co. in the winter for I felt to leave
my testimony to my grandfather’s house be-
fore leaving for the west; for I felt I was
leaving them forever; there had never been
an Elder in that part of the state, so my re-
latives knew nothing of Mormonism; they
were glad to see me; but would not listen
to the message we had to give them, so we
bade them adieu, and went home to prepare
for our journey west. We had a fine span of
horses and new wagon, so we made up our
minds to go by team, the distance was some
over 400 miles; we took a light load and
had money to bear our expenses; one of my
husband’s cousins, Philinda Colvin, was go-
ing with us. The time had now come for
us to bid farewell to all our relatives, and
friends although they predicted that we
would soon return again; but it will be seen
that in this they were mistaken. We made
the distance of 400 miles in 11 days, we had
a pleasant journey, only camped in the wa-
gon two nights on the road, but instead cal-
led for our meals and lodging at the hotel
we had not as yet learned to deprive our-
selves of comfort and little did we realize
what we would have to endure for the Gos-
pel’s sake, I think it was somewhere near
the first of June, we got to Kirtland; we
went to meeting on Sunday, it was held in-
side the Temple walls; the roof was partly
on, the Prophet Joseph was on the stand;
he addressed the Saints that day; I never
will forget with what satisfaction I sat and
listened to the teachings of an inspired man
of God.
	My husband rented a room of Brother Ly-
man Sherman, and we moved into it; every
thing was new to us, and hard to get settled
and commence anew to keep house, em-
ployment was hard to get; but we got along
very well, sometimes my husband would get
work with his team which made our living;
sometimes he worked on the Temple, the
work on that house was progressing and it
was intended to be finished during the fall
and winter; so it could be dedicated in the
spring.
	In October 24th, my second son was born;
when he was two months old, we made a
feast. Brother Harry Brown and wife united
with us and we were to receive our pa-
triarchal blessings under the hands of father
Joseph Smith. We invited until the house
was full, partook of refreshments and wine,
received our blessings and had instructions
from some of the Twelve Apostles, that were
present; and it was a feast to our souls; this
was in the winter; in the spring the Temple
was finished and dedicated; the dedication
lasted two days and they were happy days
too, for the Spirit of God rested on the house


[Column 1]
and on the people; angels appeared and the
fitting hymn, that was composed for the oc-
casion, was realized, “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” I felt that I would
always like to enjoy the sweet communion
with the holy spirit, as I enjoyed it in that
house. Solemn Assemblies were called, or-
dinances administered to the Saints; the
Elders went from house to house blessing
the Saints and administering the sacrament
and it was truly a day of rejoicing with the
Saints of God, and surely nerved us up for
what we afterwards had to contend with.
	There had a portion of the Saints settled in
Jackson county, Missouri, but the inhabi-
tants would not let them stay there, altho’
they had paid for the land, they forced
them to leave the county. The brethren
with their families then went to Clay coun-
ty. This was going on while we were yet in
Kirtland, Ohio, we had been talking of go-
ing to Missouri. Brother Joseph had bor-
rowed $50.00 of us, and we could not fit up
without it, so my husband went to Brother
Joseph to ask counsel about going, and told
him that he did not need the money, if he
did not go. Brother Joseph thought a mo-
ment and then said, “Brother Tracy, it is the
will of the Lord that you should go, and
your money shall be forthcoming, tho’ I do
not know now how I am going to get it,” so
we made up our minds to go, That sum-
mer there were many Elders sent out from
the house of the Lord, and that spring. My
husband belonged to the lesser priesthood,
he greatly desired to make a short trip to
New York, to once more bear a faithful tes-
timony to his father’s house and his friends
in general, before we went to Missouri. The
time was short for we wanted to go by the
middle of June and this was in April, so
Brother Harry Brown and my husband put
their families together, and they two breth-
ren started together for New York, were gone
six weeks, when they returned home and be-
gan to fix up for our journey of one thousand
miles, this time with ox teams, with two
families in one wagon. Brother Dimick
Huntington’s family of five, and our own
with four in family; two other families go-
ing in the company with a team each these
were Brothers Ezra Parrish and W. M. Cor-
ey, four families in all, and three wagons.
It will be seen that this was not going to be
a pleasure trip like unto our first.
	We were nearly ready to start when Broth-
er Joseph Smith the Prophet came to us
and said, “Here, Brother Tracy is your
money. I have just sold a half-acre lot; I
told you I would get it for you.”
	We bade adieu to Kirtland, where we had
lived one year in unalloyed peace and hap-
piness and received many rich blessings in
connection with the Saints of God, which I
have often said better fitted and prepared us
for what was before us, and I often thought,
“Shall we enjoy ourselves when we get to
Missouri as we have in Kirtland?”
	All things being made ready, we started
on our journey. We had no tents, so we
made our beds in our wagons. In general
we got along slowly, the weather was get-
ting pretty warm; we had the summer be-
fore us. There was nothing occurred to mar
our peace until we came into the borders
of Missouri, when one day we came to a
stream of water with a very narrow bridge,
and got to the center, when one of the oxen
dropped and began to throw itself; in its
struggles we expected to see the wagon with
the children thrown into the stream, but the
men got him loose from the other ox and
it died and was dragged off by the brethren.

[Column 2]
They could not get a team across to draw
the wagon off the bridge, so the men drew
it off as best they could, then with their
teams took that wagon and family along un-
til we got to a settlement, where the men
got another ox. Then we went on a day or
two, when one of Brother Corey’s children
was taken very sick and died. We were
quite a distance from any settlement so we
camped, and the brethren made a rude cof-
fin for the little child and buried it there in
the forest.
	Sister Corey thought this a great trial, and
so it was, but the worst was yet to come.
We went on till within one hundred and
fifty miles of our destination, Far West,
when all of a sudden Brother Corey went
out of his mind and raved and tore about
and seemed to want to kill the rest of them.
He would not be administered to, and they
could not hold him; he was a large, power-
ful man. At last he gave up and seemed
harmless; the brethren counseled together
and thought it better to stop for a few days
to see if he would not recover, but he never
rallied again. We went a few miles to a
settlement, because our means were limited,
to see if we could get something to make
him more comfortable. We found an empty
log cabin which the owner gave us leave to
go into. My own little boy was shaking with
the ague almost every day, and I had this
sick man to take care of; his wife took to
her bed, and three more of the children were
taken sick. Brother Parrish had gone on his
way, and Brother Huntington had got a
house a half a mile from us, so the burden
fell upon my husband and myself to take
care of tho sick. He would go out and
work by the day and get what necessaries
he could for his labor and bring in at night.
	Brother Corey lived about one week after
we stopped in this place. I was alone with
the sick family with the exception of a wo-
man that lived near, when the husband
and father of this family died, but it seemed
that I was nerved up in body and spirit
to do my duty, and it was marvelous to me
how I endured what I was called upon to
passthrough at that time, but the Lord gave
me strength for my day and trial.
	We went to work and prepared this man
for his burial. My husband got him a
coffin made, although it was rather rough,
but we did all we could, and the best we
could under the circumstances, I think.
There were men came to help bury him his
wife held up to take her last look upon him,
and then he was buried a short distance
from the house.
	Well, we were not going to forsake the rest
of the sick, so we stayed on and took care of
them until they were so far recovered that
we felt justified in leaving them, for the wid-
ow concluded to go no further that year.
We had gathered some provisions, enough
to last a month qr so, and we prepared to
start again. It was now getting late in the
season, my child was better and we wanted
to finish up our travels before cold weather.
Before we left the family that let us have
the house to stop in, they had been very
kind to us, prepared dinner and invited us
to come over and partake with them; we
went, and I can truly say that I never sat at
a table spread with luxuries that I enjoyed
as I did that meal; it consisted of fresh veni-
son, sweet potatoes, com bread and coffee.
It surely was a great treat to us, as we had
not had the privilege to get ourselves a
decent meal since we had been there. We
bade these friends good by (their name was
Birch). This was in Randolph county.

[Column 3]
	We went on and gotto our journey’s end 
towards the middle of November, and
camped. There was not a house finished in
Far West, for the Saints had just moved in
from Clay county and were in destitute cir-
cumstances. They had now been driven
from Jackson county into Clay county, and
from there into Caldwell county. It seemed
that there was no resting place for the Saints
of God, for persecution followed them up;
but this was still another testimony, for in
all ages when God had people on the earth
they had been persecuted in like manner.
But the Saints soon built up a city, and felt
tc trust in God, knowing they had been
commanded to come out of Babylon, and
gather together, that they may not be par-
takers of her plagues, that would soon be
poured out upon the wicked.
	My husband went to work with a will;
timber was handy, he soon put up a log
cabin. There were no saw mills, so he had.
to make the best use of the timber as it
was. He got straight grained oak and split
out boards for the roof and floor and door,
no window, dirt chimney and fireplace.
This rude structure was put together in
about two weeks ready for us to go into,
for the cold and storms were getting severe.
	How I did appreciate the shelter from the
rude blasts of December! But what next?
Our food was gone, and no alternative but
for my husband to go into an adjoining
county and seek for employment to get us
something to live upon. My two little boys
had come down with whooping cough, but
their father had to leave us, and went thirty-
five miles over the bleak prairie with a
team. He got some work and started home
with two barrels of corn and one hundred
pounds of coarse flour, but the cold was so
ntense he almost perished on the prairie.
At one time he felt himself going to sleep;
he thought he was freezing, but was so
numb it was with great exertion that he got
out of the wagon. He finally got the use of
his limbs, but dared not get into the wagon
any more; at last he got home safe, with our
winter supply of food, for what he had got
would be our dependence for he could go no
more, but deer was plentiful and venison
was a great help to our winter’s supply.
	The little boys did not get over their
cough until spring, they had itvery hard.
We had plenty of wood, which was a great
blessing, and the deer were fat and I could
make candles of their tallow for our lights.
We were happy, and felt that the Lord was
ever mindful of those that trusted in Him,
and we never felt to murmur nor complain.
	When spring came my husband entered a
piece of land three miles from Far West,
planted corn and other things and we raised
quite a crop that season, and all things
moved along pleasantly that summer.
Brother Joseph Smith, the prophet, his father
and brother, came up to Far West, so we
had the prophet and patriarch with us.
again. In this blessing we felt to rejoice,
that we had the privilege from time to time
of listening to the words of life and salva-
tion that flowed from the prophet’s lips.
		(To be continued.)


