INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
(SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE QUINQUENNIAL
		SESSIONS IN CANADA.)
	Owing to the unusual circumstance of
two plenary meetings of council being held
within ten months—in September, 1908, in
Geneva, and in June, 1909, in Toronto—the
year 1908-09 may fairly be considered a re-
cord year of business in the history of the
International Council of Women. On no
previous occasion has more than one plen-
ary session of council been held during a
quinquennial period, but the special meet-
ing at Geneva was called in order to com-
plete the revision of the Constitution and
Standing Orders and to come to some work-
ing arrangement for suitable numerical re-
presentation of the Australian National
Councils previous to the quinquennial meet-
ing of council in 1909. Both matters were
successfully arranged at Geneva, and two
new National Councils, of Greece and Bul-
garia, became affiliated. The annual report
of the work of the standing committees of
the Intenational Council and of all the affili-
ated National Councils was then published
in October, 1908.
	In November, 1908, the first communica-
tions were issued from the headquarters of-
fice to the National Councils regarding the
nominations of general officers and con-
veners of committees for the next quinquen-
nial period, 1909-1914, and requesting inti-
mation of any resolutions or recommenda-
tions for the Agenda of the quinquennial
sessions at Toronto. The replies were duly
considered at a meeting of officers held on
27th January in London, and the Prelimin-
ary Agenda was circulated in printed form
to all the affiliated councils in the month of
February. Farther correspondence ensued,
and the Final Agenda was published in
June. It contained, in addition to the
Agenda and Revised Constitution, etc., a


[Column 1]
complete itinerary for the visit of the council
to Canada from Friday, 11th June, to
Wednesday, 30th June. Another publica-
tion prepared in readiness for the quinquen
nial reunion was a special report on “public
health” containing short accounts sent from
all the National Councils on recent progress
in the care of public health in their respec-
tive countries. The official delegates were
all supplied by the International Council
with name badges suspended on specially-
woven ribbon in purple, white and gold—
the colors of the council—and those who
wished might purchase the I. C. W. mono-
gram brooch adopted at Geneva and worked
in purple white and enamel, or in silver or
silver gilt.
	About 140 ladies attended the council
meetings as official delegates and proxies;
over 80 came from over-seas as ordinary
members or invited speakers for the con-
gress, and a number from the United States.
The average attendance at the business
meetings of the council was from 250 to
300.
	The first assembling of the delegatee upon
their arrival in Canada was at Quebec, when
on Friday, 11th June, Sir George Garnier,
the mayor, and the city authorities enter-
tained Her Excellency the Countess of Aber-
deen and the delegates to luncheon in the
Chateau Frontenac hotel. The delegates
were also driven to the old citadel, to the
famous battleground where Wolfe lost his
life, to the falls of Montmorency, and other
interesting places.
	At Montreal the next morning an execu-
tive Meeting was held, and until Monday
evening the delegates remained there as
guests of the local council of Montreal.
Victoria College, the Women’s Department
of the McGill University, was prettily ar-
ranged as headquarters, and the university
gave a large reception there on Saturday
evening. On Monday, a special train took
the delegates to St. Anne de Bellevue to
visit the Macdonald College for the training
of teachers in Agriculture and Domestic
Science, and they returned by steamer
through the famous Lachine Rapids of the
St. Lawrence. The Handicrafts Guild gave
a reception in the Art Gallery on Monday
evening. Tuesday was spent in Ottawa,
where the Hon. Mr. Fisher, Minister of Agri-
culture, conducted the delegates through
the Experimental Farm some miles out of
the town, and in the afternoon the Parlia-
ment buildings were visited, and all the de-
legates then went to the brilliant garden
party given in their honor by her Excellency
Countess Grey, wife of the Governor General
of Canada. Sir Wilfred Laurier, the Pre-
mier, and many of the most notable men
and women in Canada were present.
	Committee meetings commenced at Tor-
onto on the following day, Wednesday the
16th June, and a second executive meeting
occupied Thursday. On Wednesday even-
ing a public welcome was extended to the
president and council at a large meeting in
Convocation Hall. Lady Edgar, president
of the Canadian National Council of Women,
his honor the Lieut. Governor of the Prov-
ince of Ontario, his Worship the Mayor of
Toronto, and Professor Ramsey Wright, the
vice-president of the University gave cordial
greetings to the guests. The Countess of
Aberdeen responded on behalf of the coun-
cil, and gave her presidential address. On
Thursday evening, the Mayor and Mrs. Oliver
gave a reception in the City Hall.
	The business meetings of the council were
held on Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tues-

[Column 2]
day, the 18th to 22nd June, in the Univers-
ity buildings. Lunch was served each day 
in the buildings in a large hall, and the
waiting was done by girl students and their
friends. The girl students, wearing their
gowns, acted as ushers at the meetings and
in the corridors and entrance hall, and the
local hostesses and committee members
were unwearied in their care for the comfort
and convenience of the visitors.
	The reports of the officers and conveners,
and the presidents of affiliated National
Councils, were submitted and accepted for
publication in the Transactions. Letters
were read from the Hon. vice-presidents in
Russia and Finland, where there is every
prospect of National Councils being formed.
The secretary of the council in New Zealand
reported that their council was practically
non-existent at present, but desired
that their president, Mrs. Sheppard, be ap-
pointed an Hon. vice-president to try and re-
organize it. Communications of great hope
and interest were read from Mrs. Marcellus
Bowen in Constantinople and from Mrs.
Ellen Hopkins in Cairo, and it was resolved
to appoint two additional Hon. vice-presi-
dents for Turkey and Egypt.
	The names of three ladies were submitted
and accepted as Life-Patrons of the council,
Fru Maria Ekman Stockholm; Mrs. Henry
Bovey, Montreal; Frl. Helene Lange, Berlin.
As Quinquennial Patrons for 1909-1914 the
following ladies were proposed and accept-
ed: Frk. Mueller, Denmark; Countess Ruuth,
Sweden; Frl. Krajner, Hungary; Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells and Mrs. Susa Young Gates,
U. S. A.; Mrs. Smythe, Australia; Mrs. Henry
Muff, Mrs. Forbes of Rothiemay, Mrs. Symes
Thomson, Mrs. Veitch, Miss Blackie from
Great Britain and Ireland.
	A letter from Lady MacLaren was read,
asking whether the International Council
would co-operate with the International
Women’s Suffrage Alliance in helping to
prepare a Women’s Charter, setting forth
the rights and wishes of women, and in pre
senting the Charter in 1910 simultaneously
to all civilized governments. On the proposal
of Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, supported by the
Rev. Anna Shaw, Frau Hainish and others,
the following recommendation was unanim-
ously carried—“that any action to be taken
by the International Council in approaching
governments should in accordance with pre-
cedent be taken idependently of other asso-
ciations; and that as an excellent series of
reports on “Laws” had been published year
after year by the “Laws” committee of the
International Council of Women under the
Convenership of Baroness Olga von Besch-
witz, it be referred to that committee to
compile from these a special report not con-
fined to one year’s progress, but showing any
inequalities and deficiencies in existing laws
relating to women in the different countries
represented within the International Coun-
cil. That this report be then sent to the
governments in these countries, accompanied
by a letter from the executive of the Inter-
national Council, which should draw atten-
tion to the disadvantageous position of
women as shown in the report, and should
state that the International Council based
their support of Woman’s Suffrage on these
facts, and in order to secure the improve-
ment of such laws desired to possess the
only recognized constitutional means of im-
pressing their convictions and wishes upon
the representatives of the people in parlia-
ment.”
	An important discussion took place on a
proposal made by the National Council of

[Column 3]
the United States to alter the name of the
committee on “White Slave Traffic and
Equal Moral Standard” in such a way that
it should include the case of women of all
races, and not appear to be limited to the
white races. It was agreed to alter the name
to “Equal Moral Standard and Traffic in
Women.”
	In connection with the work of the coun-
cil in support of the principles of “Peace
and Arbitration” a resolution was passed
urging the National Councils to “promote
the use of such textbooks and reading-books
in schools as will present historical facts
with the least possible bias and to endeavour
to arouse a living interest in the modern
methods of peaceably settling international
difficulties.” The council also acted in fa-
vour of the observance of an annual “Peace
Day” by schools, universities, and churches,
or by special associations and Festivals. A
largely attended and enthusiastic public
meeting in support of peace was organized
by the council in the Massey Hall, over
which Sir Wm. Mulock presided. Addresses
were given by Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Frau
Hainisch, Mlle la Fontaine and Miss Rosa
Barrett. Other successful public meetings
were those held in the interests of “Public
Health” and “Women’s Suffrage.”
	A useful recommendation was passed by
the council for the protection of birds, and
to secure a stricter observance of close times
for birds and other animals. Another re-
commendation was to the effect that appli-
cation be made to the bureau of the uni-
versal postal union asking for a reduction of
postal rates and the introduction of some
simple form for “prepaid answer.” A dis-
cussion was held on the desirability of mak-
ing sure that those using the information
bureaux of the various National Councils
were bona fide members of councils and did
not take undue advantage of the bureaux
for private or individual purposes. It was
agreed that any National Council may sanc-
tion his own affiliated societies to make in-
quiries at the bureaux of other National
Councils and shall notify to the secretary of
the International Council at the beginning
of each quinquennial period the names and
addresses of the affiliated societies to whom
the privilege is given; but that members of
National Councils should not have this privi-
lege as individuals.
	Four National Councils had sent invita-
tions to the international body to hold the
quinquennial reunion of 1914 in their re-
spective countries—Australia, Norway,
France, and Italy. By vote of the council,
it was decided that it should be held in
Rome, in April or May of 1914. For the
two executive sessions during the quinquen-
nial period, the places chosen were Stock-
holm in 1911, and the Netherlands in 1913.
	The officers elected for the next quinquen-
nial period were her Excellency the Countess
of Aberdeen, president; Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon,
Countess Spalletti Rasponi and Frau Hainisch
as 1st, 2nd and 3rd vice-president; Dr. Alice
Salomon as Hon. Cor. Secretary; Dr. Alex-
andra Skoglund as Hon. Rec. Secretary, and
Mrs. W. E. Sanford as Hon. treasurer. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall was re-elected an Hon.
president. It w[-]s unanimously agreed to
employ a paid assistant secretary to work
under the Hon. Cor. secretary, and Miss
Dorothy Brackett, who had worked six
months with Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, was ap-
pointed to the post.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall was re-elected
convener of the “Peace and Arbitration”
committee, Mme. Avril de Ste-Croix of the


committee on “Equal Moral Standard and
Traffic in Women,” Dr. Anna Shaw of the
committee of “Women’s Suffrage,” and
Mme. d’Abbadie d’Arrast of the committee
on “Laws.”
	The only change in the Convenership of
committees was the election of Mrs. Wil-
loughby Cummings to the “Finance” Com-
mittee on the resignation of Frl. Helene
Lange; and the election of Miss Johanna
Naber to the “Press” committee. Three new
standing committees were appointed—
“Public Health” with the president as con-
vener; “Education” with the first vice-presi-
dent as convener; and “Emigration and Im-
migration” with Signora Danieli as con-
vener.
	The meetings of the International Con-
gress of Women commenced on Thursday,
24th June, and drew large audiences
throughout the entire series. Both the con-
gress and the subsequent tour through Wes-
tern Canada, with return through the United
States, afforded favorable opportunities for
full and frank interchange of views between
delegates of the International Council of
Women, and no one who was present can
doubt the immeasurable benefit of such op-
portunities, and their value in bringing en-
lightenment and inspiration to the council
workers in the various countries.
	MARIA M. OGILVIE GORDON,
			1st Vice-Pres.


