[Vol25 | December 1938 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: A Visit to Eve]
Through the clear balmy air of Palestine A VISIT TO BETHLEHEM ON CHRISTMAS EVE it resembled a large incandescent crystal globe. My mind reverted to the words of the Magi as reported by Matthew 2:2: 'Where is the king of the Jews that has been born? For we saw his star in the east country, and came to do him homage." Our situation was truly charming and romantic. The undulating hills of Judah stretched before us in every direction. On our right they appeared in dim relief against the afterglow on the western horizon.
Through the clear air came faint cries of the hyena and jackal from the desert, the answering barks of village dogs, the soft tinkling of little bells on nearby sheep, and the plaintive notes from some distant shepherd's pipe?breaking the otherwise solemn stillness of the Palestinian night. The gathering darkness, the clear sky, the presence of the shepherds, combined with the psychological effect of the holiness of the night made a never to be forgotten impression upon our minds. The evening was cool and light topcoats were welcomed.
Sprinkled over the plain were the fires of shepherds and visiting pilgrims. HE members of our party were met by some Jewish friends, according to a pre-arranged plan, and we were conducted into a cave underground where hot native bread was being cooked and also a large amount of meat. The smoke at the entrance of the cave almost smothered us, but a little distance back we made ourselves very comfortable. The native Palestinians seemed not to mind the smoke at all.
Large flat "loaves" of the bread, about twenty inches in diameter and almost paper-thin were offered to us.
Since we were not inexperienced in Palestinian customs each proceeded to tear off a large piece of bread, folded it over portions of beef and goat-meat, and thus made a kind of sandwich. The meat had been well cooked and was very tender. The ride and the cool air had made us hungry, and our repast was not at all unpalatable.
After satisfying our hunger we went once more into the open air, gathered in a circle, built a fire and sang carols. Some English friends joined our party and I thoroughly enjoyed the way they sang the old holiday airs.
While we were singing, the Arab shepherds ventured closer and closer until we could see their dark eyes gleaming in the firelight. The natives are a very curious lot and like to watch the actions of the queer Americans and Europeans.
After singing, we discussed the historical significance of the district.
