[Vol25 | December 1938 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Joseph]
Joseph Smith's discussion of the effect of the first Comforter or Holy Ghost upon a person. (See Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 21 f.)
The Desert Book Company have on hand a few copies of "The Apostles of Jesus Christ," by the late Edward H. Anderson, and "Ancient Apostles," by David O. McKay, specially priced at seventy-nine cents per copy with ten cents additional cost for postage, and in the state of Utah, the sales tax also additional. These two books, published locally and written by our Church leaders, work nicely into the Theology course of study.
Visiting Teacher Department
Messages to the Home
No. VI?Sources of Power
Paul, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, said, "For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power." I Cor. 4:19-20.
IS there some relation between strength of personality and true worship? Jesus points to three expressions of worship as sources of spiritual power: almsgiving, fasting, and prayer. He teaches how these principles can be real forces in developing personality. Mere observance of ritual will not increase our capacities. Quietly, out of the depths of the heart, these principles must be lived. To give to mankind with the same interest as a father gives to his son will certainly strengthen and improve the quality of love. The apostle Paul reflecting the teachings of Jesus said that though we bestow all our goods to feed the poor and have not charity (love) it profiteth nothing. Fasting brings us near our Heavenly Father; it shows sincerity of heart and brings great spiritual strength. The Master fasted that He might have spiritual power. If He had need to fast, how much more have we! In fasting for the purpose of administering to the needs of others one must have a genuine, heart-felt desire to aid. Thus our power to sympathize intelligently is expanded and fasting becomes truly ennobling. We pray to our Heavenly Father because we have faith in Him. Various needs cause us to pray. If prayer is to be a source of power we must know how to pray, and for what to pray. Jesus' guide is found by searching the depths of meaning in the Lord's Prayer, the perfect prayer. The rewards of true prayer are peace of soul, courage to meet life's problems, and clearer insight into the spiritual laws, which, if applied, will help solve problems. Prayer brings growth in faith and love. Surely, here is power. Psychology has recognized the value of faith and love in human personality.
Questions
1. What characterizes intelligent giving?
2. Does depriving one's self of food adequately express the principle of fasting?
3. Can one reasonably expect RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE power to follow knowing but not doing?
References: Matthew 6:1-18; 9:13-15; 21:22.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by your ward.
Literature
The Advance of the Novel
Lesson VI
The Greatest Age of the Novel
SCOTT'S last novel was published in 1831 and Queen Victoria began her glorious reign in 1837. The Victorian Age had dawned, and that age was to be one of the most memorable in the history of mankind as well as in the history of the English novel. At the time of Sir Walter Scott's death, two of England's greatest novelists were approximately twenty years of age and Mary Ann Evans?George Eliot?was thirteen. Those three people, assisted by a few lesser lights, were to carry the novel on from where the Scotchman had left it to new heights of glory. Phelps opens his fifth chapter in his book The Advance of the English Novel, with these words: "Perhaps the greatest decade in the history of the English novel was the period between 1850 and 1860 inclusive." He then proceeds to name a number of novels whose names are household words the world around and whose characters are as well known as the greatest men and women who ever actually lived. During that period, too, Americans had begun to make their presence felt in the world of letters. Nathaniel Hawthorne, Edgar Allan Poe, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and others were producing some of their great books, some of which rank among the best ever produced anywhere. Furthermore, during the same period, several of the greatest poets of all time were writing their epics, their odes, and their dramatic poems. The Victorian Age was one of the most important literary periods in the history of this earth. Youthful science was beginning to show strength; new America was being built, and it seemed that literary men and women were fired by the spirit of the age. It was truly a period of conquest, but the conquests of war were infinitesimally insignificant compared with the conquests of peace during the life-time of the great queen of England.
