GUIDE LESSONS. w/ child should not be placed in a sitting posture as the bones of the spine are likely to be injured and curvature of the spine may result. There are a number of different trade brands of children's clothes each having its devotees. Most people find it more satisfactory to make the first clothes quite short twenty four inches in length. These clothes can be used until the baby begins to crawl. In some of the German hospitals the baby is dressed in a sweater with the first layer as stated. The normal baby usually sleeps most of the time and should be dressed for comfort in sleeping. Care in keeping the diapers clean by thorough rinsing in plenty of water after each using cannot be too strongly urged. When thoroughly dried the diaper should be folded for use and kept in a convenient place. The shirts and stockings retain their form if dried on the wooden or steel frames sold by most department stores. A baby's skin is so tender that the softest of materials should be employed and no starch used in laundering them. Very narrow tatting or crocheted edges make a dainty finish for the neck and sleeves which should be finished with a neat, narrow band. A baby needs no adornment; hence its clothes should be plain, comfortable and clean. Nothing looks worse than too many ruffles and unnecessary trimming. After a babe begins to move about, the creepers or Koveralls are very good, saving the underclothing from becoming so soiled and allowing more freedom to the lower limbs than skirts. Nothing is better for children to play in than the Koveralls. For boys' Sunday clothing, little suits made of white mercerized poplin, costing about 35c a yard, launders beautifully, wears well, and does not wrinkle like linen. For girls, the simple white dresses or pongee give satisfaction. It is much easier to keep small children clean in the winter if a knit under dress is worn with a gingham dress. Children to be happy and to develop normally, need exercise; most of this exercise comes through play. Sometimes their play is of such a nature that it would be impossible for them to keep a woolen dress clean many days, therefore, the wash dress over the warm knitted woolen one can be used to good advantage. For the school boy the light wash waist or shirt and knee trousers are decidedly neat, combined with union suit, woolen stockings, and heavy shoes. Supporters are better coming from the shoulder if too narrow a band is not used over the shoulder. The supporter waist is warmer and less likely to leave bad results. The middy seems to be quite a favorite mode of dress for school girls. While it is economical and practical some tell us 
 it is not artistic. A child's body is too short to be divided into separate pieces  the white middy and dark skirt. The one piece S is more artistic hut much harder to keep in good condition. Middies are easily laundered and allow free movement of the body. Encourage the girls to be neat in their dress. Expensive material is not necessary but neatness and a little thought at least should be given to combination of colors. Too many clothes for growing girls are to be discouraged as they are soon outgrown. A few good dresses neatly made with a little new collar or change of trimming occasionally are very satisfactory. Study your child. you will better know what good lines can be used effectively. The following are adequate for winter: union suits, knit petticoat. black bloomers, woolen stockings, wash dress, and heavy soled shoes. Emphasis should be placed on girls wearing bloomers instead of umbrella drawers where the lower limbs are exposed. In running, riding, jumping, or any kind of play, the legs are left exposed. The shoes are an important part of the clothing. They should be broad and comfortable to prevent deformity. There should be at least three suits of underclothes for each child, more are desirable in some cases. If only two are provided difficulty is often experienced when a child is ill and the laundry is not done and clean clothes arc needed. One way found practical by some mothers to keep the clothes worn evenly is to number them one. two and three, wearing them in their order. If there are several children of about the same size, the initial helps solve some of the trouble in identifying clothes. Herbert Spencer, said years ago. "What father. Task. would think it salutary to go about with bare legs, bare arms, and bare neck?" There is danger of a child becoming chilled by wearing the German socks, and this disturbs the circulation and may rested hi digestive troubles or other illness. A child's health should be more important than adopting some fad. Care should be exercised in putting colored clothing next a child's skin as sometimes the dye is poisonous and at first causes irritation of the skin with a possibility of later poisoning. Fits a child's wardrobe is made, it is quite as important that it should receive proper care. Half the expense in many cases is due to neglect. To have buttons or hooks and eyes off: V.A pins, sometimes safety pins. used, mars the most artistic dress. Children can. with little effort, learn to take care of their clothes by brushing and putting them in their place. The cheapness of coat hangers now makes it possible to use them extensively and they certainly help to keep the clothes in shape. GUIDE LESSONS. 539 Ruskin says, "Clothes carefully cared for and rightly worn, show a balance of mind and.self respect." QUESTIONS. What is the purpose of clothing? Can clothes be both useful and beautiful? What material wears best? How should infants  be dressed? Describe suitable clothing for school children. DOMESTIC ODDS AND ENDS. QUICK METHOD OF DARNING. Darning stockings often becomes a problem when the holes are large. It is sometimes better to patch them as follows: Place over the darning egg a piece of discarded stocking and hold it firmly with your left hand. Now slip the torn stocking over this, let the weave of the stocking run in the same direction as the part you hold over the wooden egg, cut the raw edges from the hole and sew to the covered egg. Use silk, as this does not cut the weave. Now remove, turn and trim away the patch all but one-half to one inch. Slip over the egg again and sew the edges firmly to the stocking. A little pressing will quickly finish this otherwise tedious job, and the patch will not hurt even a tender foot. An "onion breath" may be gotten rid of by eating a small piece of charcoal after the meal. This is also an old-fashioned remedy for purifying the blood. For this mixed purpose the bulk charcoal is far better than that which comes with sugar and put up in packages. Charcoal is also an excellent deodorizer for the refrigerator, and a saucer full of small pieces should be kept on one of the shelves. It absorbs all impurities and prevents a musty smell. A teaspoonful of boiling vinegar on the stove will counteract the smell of strong food. A teaspoonful of ground cloves on a few hot coals will have the same effect. A crust of stale bread boiled with cabbage will absorb the disagreeable odor. A pound of sal soda dissolved in boiling water should be poured in drain pipes at frequent intervals. This dissolves the grease and other impurities. A sponge placed in a saucer of hot water, to which has been added a teaspoonful of oil of lavender, will give forth a delicious 
 fragrance of violets in a room. This is especially useful in the sick room, as Hies will not remain where the odor of oil of lavender is. It lies the added merit of being cheap, and a few centworth will last a long time. A generous lump of cooking soda placed in pots and pans in which fish, cabbage or onions have been cooked will thoroughly cleanse them and entirely remove the strong odor. Turpentine will soften hardened shoe polish. The perfect preserve closet is cool and dark. Cold beefsteak makes a very good hash on toast. Pastry that has been standing in the ice box will he soggy. Raisins added to the nut salad will make it taste better. Soiled candles can he cleaned with a cloth dipped in spirits of wine. Bone meal is an excellent fertilizer for the tops of flower pots. Spinach should he cooked so tender that a fork will not hold it. Heavy hats and over-heated houses will cause the hair to fall out. Always let the boiled ham cook in the liquor in which it has boiled. Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, 191 7-1 8 The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing will begin its fourteenth year, Monday, September 17, 1917, Fourth Moor, Two Bishop's corses Building. Term as eight will be offered months. follows: COURSE 
 This course consists of general instructions in nursing, seven liquor and a half per week. It includes in addition, a series of lectures and practical demonstrations in the following subjects: Invalid Cooking, Practical Nursing including First Aid Work, Sterilization. Drugs and Solutions. and Contagious Diseases. These lecture courses are given successfully and cover a period of five hours a week. The Nursing course also includes lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, to be given by eminent physicians, surgeons and other specialists. Each student of this course will be required to do at least 20 hours of actual practical nursing during the term, under the direction of the School. Tuitions $25.00 cash and 30 days service charity nursing. Tuition to be paid and contracts to be signed upon registration. COURSE II OBSTETRICS. This course consists of technical instruction in Obstetrics, seven hours and a half per week. In addition it includes all of the regular and special features of Course I. Tuition $50.00 cash, and service at five charity obstetrical cases or 30 days' service in charity nursing. For further information  address Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. General Secretary. 2R Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. Utah. COLUMBIA GRANOLAS and Double Disc Records The mechanism, style, finish and every detail of the COLUMBIA products are as near perfection as possible. Let us send you catalogue of Machines and Records. We can arrange terms. FURNITURE  CARPETS RUGS - RANGES GOCARTS, Etc FURNITURE of QUALITY Co-op.