[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: FEATURES | Author: Dam]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Netherlands Mission Ada S. Van Dam]
Values  Derived  From  Reading 
Worthwhile  Literature 
Thomas  C.  Roinney 
Do  not  read  good  books — life  is  too  short  for  that.    Only  read  the  best. — Dimnet 
NEVER  before,  perhaps,  was 
there  a  greater  need  for 
emphasis  upon  the  impor- 
tance of  having  high  class  literature 
put  into  the  hands  of  the  children 
and  young  people  than  there  is  at 
the  present  time.  Never  have  evil- 
designing  individuals  been  more 
determined  to  foist  upon  the  public 
their  nefarious  wares  such  as  im- 
moral literature,  indecent  films,  and 
glaring  tales  of  robberies  and  other 
crimes  than  now. 
Reports  from  juvenile  court  rec- 
ords throughout  the  land  reveal  the 
deplorable  fact  that  juvenile  delin- 
quency is  rapidly  on  the  increase, 
manifesting  itself  in  an  ever-increas- 
ing number  of  homicides,  thefts, 
and  other  infractions  of  the  moral 
code. 
The  chief  responsibility  for  the 
prevention  and  correction  of  these 
evils  must  be  placed  upon  the  par- 
ents in  the  home.  They,  in  the 
very  nature  of  things,  are  the  logical 
and  inescapable  guardians  of  their 
children.  The  family  is  the  oldest 
and  most  fundamental  of  all  social 
institutions,  and  here  is  laid  the 
cultural,  moral,  and  religious  pat- 
tern in  the  child's  life  that  will 
largely  determine  his  future  success 
or  failure. 
There  are  no  influences  in  the 
home  so  potent  in  the  formation  of 
the   character  of  the  child  as   the 
Page  90 
example  and  the  verbal  teachings  of 
its  parents;  but  second  only  to  these 
is,  perhaps,  the  literature  with 
which  the  child  comes  in  contact 
through  different  media,  such  as 
retold  stories,  comic  books,  maga- 
zines, television,  and  radio. 
Of  such  grave  import  in  the  life 
and  character  of  the  child  are  these 
influences  that  the  late  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  was  led  to  say: 
Books  constitute  a  sort  of  companion- 
ship to  everyone  who  reads,  and  they  cre- 
ate within  the  heart  feelings  either  for 
good  or  for  bad.  It  sometimes  happens 
that  parents  are  very  careful  about  the 
company  which  their  children  keep  and 
are  very  indifferent  about  the  books  they 
read.  In  the  end  the  reading  of  a  bad 
book  will  bring  about  evil  associates. 
It  is  not  only  the  boy  who  reads  this 
strange,  weird  and  unnaturally  exciting 
literature  who  is  affected  by  its  influence, 
but  in  time  he  influences  others.  This  lit- 
erature becomes  the  mother  of  all  sorts 
of  evil  suggestions  that  ripen  into  evil 
practices  and  bring  about  an  unnatural 
and  debased  feeling  which  is  ever  crowd- 
ing out  the  good  in  the  human  heart  and 
giving  place  to  the  bad.  .  .  . 
.  .  .  Let  the  Saints  beware  of  the  books 
that  enter  their  homes,  for  their  influences 
may  be  as  poisonous  and  deadly  as  the 
adder  .  .  .  {Gospel  Doctrine,  pp.  324-325, 
1952  Edition). 
In  like  strain,  President  David  O. 
McKay,  when  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  emphatically 
declared:

VALUES  DERIVED  FROM  READING 
91 
Men  in  Israel,  it  is  time  that  we  take 
a  stand  against  vile  literature.  It  is  poison- 
ous to  the  soul.  It  is  the  duty  of  a 
parent  to  put  the  poison  that  is  in  the 
house,  on  the  highest  shelf,  away  from 
that  innocent  little  child  who  knows  not 
the  danger  of  it.  It  is  the  duty  of  the 
parent  also  to  keep  the  boy's  mind  from 
becoming  polluted  with  the  vile  trash  that 
is  sometimes  scattered — nay,  that  is  daily 
distributed  among  us.  ,  .  .  Teach  your 
children,  your  boys  and  girls  e^'ery where, 
to  keep  away  from  every  bad  book  and 
all  bad  literature,  especially  that  which 
sa\'ors  of  hatred,  or  envy,  or  malice,  that 
v\hich  bears  upon  it  the  marks  of 
hypocrisy,  insincerity,  edited  by  men  who 
have  lost  their  manhood  (Liahona,  vol.  8, 
page  310). 
"^jyHILE  unfit  literature  has  such 
a  baleful  influence  upon  the 
morals  of  the  growing  child,  much 
can  be  said  of  the  uplifting  and 
wholesome  influence  of  good,  chaste 
literature  upon  his  life.  No  child 
is  likely  to  go  far  astray  from  the 
path  of  rectitude  and  virtue  who, 
from  his  earliest  childhood,  has 
been  reared  in  a  home  where  there 
is  daily  reading  of  the  scriptures 
and  other  good  books  as  the  Lord 
has  directed: 
.  .  .  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books 
words  of  wisdom;  seek  learning,  even  by 
study  and  also  by  faith  (D.  &  C.  88:118) . 
Said  the  great  Roman  orator, 
Cicero: 
There  is  nothing  so  charming  as  the 
knowledge  of  literature;  of  that  branch  of 
literature,  I  mean,  which  enables  us  to 
discover  the  infinity  of  things,  the  im- 
mensity of  Nature,  the  heavens,  the  earth 
and  the  seas.  This  is  that  branch  which 
has  taught  religion,  moderation,  magna- 
nimity, and  that  has  rescued  the  soul 
from  obscurity;  to  make  her  see  all  things 
above  and  below,  first  and  last,  and  be- 
tween both;  it  is  this  that  furnishes  us 
wherewith  to  live  well  and  happy,  and 
guides  us  to  pass  our  lives  without  dis- 
pleasure and  offence. 
The  Bible  is  such  a  book,  and  it 
has  had  a  more  powerful  influence 
upon  the  lives  of  prominent  men 
and  women  down  through  the 
centuries  than  all  of  the  other  great 
works  of  literature  combined. 
There  are  few  plays  of  the  im- 
mortal William  Shakespeare  that  do 
not  bear  the  imprint  of  intensive 
reading  of  that  sacred  book;  and 
the  masterpieces  of  John  Milton, 
'Taradise  Lost"  and  'Taradise  Re- 
gained," have  borrowed  their  most 
important  characters  and  plots  and 
much  of  their  lofty  style  from  the 
Holy  Bible. 
By  taking  a  glance  at  the  found- 
ers and  preservers  of  our  great 
American  Republic,  we  see  that 
the  vast  majority  were  reverent  men 
and  intensive  readers  of  the  word 
of  God.  Such  were  George  Wash- 
ington, Benjamin  Franklin,  Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  and  others  whose 
names  loom  large  on  the  pages  of 
early  American  history. 
Space  will  not  permit  an  exhaus- 
tive survey  of  the  literature  read  and 
absorbed  by  these  men  and  its  in- 
fluence upon  their  lives,  but  by  way 
of  illustration,  I  submit  a  few  ex- 
amples from  the  life  and  utterances 
of  the  great  emancipator,  Abraham 
Lincoln. 
From  his  early  childhood,  Abra-
