[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Attic | Author: Rubin]
[Attic Treasure Maude Rubin]
same  attic  closet,  a  dozen  or  more 
automobiles,  perfect  replicas  of  past 
models,  are  waiting.  Then  there  are 
the  windup  toys  —  Amos  and  Andy 
and  their  famous  Ford,  a  negro  toe 
dancer,  and  a  large  singing  top, 
waiting  patiently  to  be  wound  up 
again  to  thrill  a  younger  generation 
who  may  play  with  them  and  find 
interest  and  curiosity  in  their  anti- 
quated styles  and  colors. 
In  an  old  steamer  trunk  at  one 
end  of  the  long  closet,  I  peek  in  at 
Mary's  dolls  —  dolls  of  the  past, 
baby  '  wetum"  dolls,  dolls  of  other 
nations,  character  dolls,  a  pretty 
standup  doll,  with  a  blue  dress  given 
her  by  the  captain  on  the  'Turline," 
and,  last,  the  lovely  keepsake  ''Horse- 
man" doll  sent  to  her  from  Hawaii 
Page  114 
by  John  when  he  was  on  his  mis- 
sion. They,  too,  wait  patiently  in 
the  trunk  for  a  new  little  girl's  arms 
to  love  and  play  with  them  again. 
Hanging  on  the  wall  and  in  cor- 
ners of  this  large  closet  are  boxing 
gloves,  fencing  swords,  a  bow  made 
from  Osage  orange,  and  a  quiver 
filled  with  arrows,  waiting  since  Boy 
Scout  days  to  be  used  again.  On 
the  long  high  closet  shelf  I  find 
some  tennis  shoes,  a  pair  of  track 
shoes  —  and  one  pretty  pair  of 
white  shoe  skates  —  Mary's  last  pair 
before  she  went  away  to  college. 
Hanging  on  the  long  rod  beneath 
the  shelf,  along  with  costumes  and 
other  clothes,  are  some  pretty  eve- 
ning gowns  and  three  or  four  lovely 
bridesmaids'  dresses;  one  especially 
pretty  lavender  taffeta,  a  soft, 
creamy  yellow  one,  and  the  pink 
and  white  net  worn  at  Helen's  and 
Dick's  wedding  during  wartime 
when  taffetas  and  satin  were  not  so 
plentiful.  These,  now  old-fashioned 
frocks,  are  just  waiting.  I  love  to 
touch  them,  and  caress  their  soft, 
silky  folds.  They,  too,  bring  a  flood 
of  pleasant  memories,  and,  for  some 
reason,  I  do  not  care  to  use  them 
for  the  material  alone. 
Two  bedrooms  open  up  together. 
They  were  the  places  where  the  boys 
slept,  and  the  neighbor  boys  played 
on  stormy  days.  The  beds  are  made 
up  with  fresh  linen  now  waiting  to 
be  occupied  by  their  original  own- 
ers when  they  return  on  an  occa- 
sional visit. 
The  bookshelves  along  one  end 
of  the  west  room  are  filled  with  all