[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Lesson | Title: Giant | Author: Jacobson]
[Giant Saguaros Ethel Jacobson]
to  disturb  his  sleep,  so  tired  is  he. 
Significantly  it  is  Brutus  who  is  the 
last  of  the  conspirators  to  stab 
Caesar;  in  return  Caesar's  dying 
words,  ''Et  tu,  Biuter  (III.  1.  77). 
Likewise,  when  plotting  Caesar's 
death,  it  is  Brutus  who  laments  the 
need  to  spill  blood  at  all,  and,  true 
to  his  real  self,  advises  the  paradoxi- 
cal action  of  killing  Caesar  as  gently 
as  possible: 
Our  course  will   seem  too  bloody,  Gains 
Cassius.  .  .  . 
Let   us   be   sacrificers,   but   not   butchers, 
Cains. 
We    all    stand    up    against    the    spirit    of 
Caesar, 
And  in  the  spirit  of  men  there  is  no  blood.

138 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1957 
Oh,  that  we  then  could  come  by  Caesar's 
spirit, 
And  not  dismember  Caesar!     But,  alas, 
Caesar   must  bleed   for   it!      And,   gentle 
friends. 
Let's  kill  him  boldly,  but  not  wrathfully. 
Let's  carve  him  as  a  dish  fit  for  the  gods, 
Not  hew  him  as  a  carcass  fit  for  hounds. 
IL  1.  162,  166-174 
Thus  we  know  with  increased 
understanding  Brutus'  inner  con- 
flict. He  seeks  goodness  and  right, 
as  all  men  do,  but,  sensitive  to  pain 
and  tyranny  he  forsakes  his  own 
best  instincts  and  believes  that  the 
only  way  to  triumph  in  the  world 
is  to  fight  force  with  force.  And,  in 
thus  being  untrue  to  his  better  self, 
Brutus  begins  his  own  end.  Though 
he  merits  our  compassion,  we  suffer 
at  his  loss  of  direction  and  balance. 
How  sad  to  see  men  of  such  good 
intent  become  lost!  Here  tragedy 
lies  very  near  the  surface;  here  re- 
ality lies  hard  upon  us  all. 
Thoughts  foi  Discussion 
1.  How  does  a  play  differ  from  history? 
2.  While    Brutus   failed    to    moxe    the 
crowd,  why  was  Antony  so  successful? 
3.  Why  is  the  language  of  this  play  so 
spare  and  simple?     Why  so  little  poetry? 
4.  How  does  the  spirit  of  Caesar  finally 
triumph? 
Social  Science — Latter-day  Saint  Family  Life 
Lesson  7— ''Be  Ye  Therefore  Perfect" 
Elder  John  Fan  Larson 
For  Tuesday,  May  28,  1957 
Objective:    To  suggest  the  importance  of  acquiring  desirable  qualities  and  to  show 
the  blessings  in  store  for  those  who  love  the  Lord. 
'pHE  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was 
well  prepared  to  teach  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  women  about  God 
and  his  attributes.  By  1842,  when 
he  organized  and  instructed  the  Re- 
lief Society,  although  a  young  man 
of  thirty-six  years,  the  Prophet  had
