[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Lesson | Title: Future Resolve| Author: Hazel M. Thomson]
86 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY   1957 
years.  Of  course,  I  added  a  few 
touches  here  and  there,  but  .  .  .  /' 
"Mother  Talbot  is  far  too  diplo- 
matic ever  to  tell  you,  if  to  her  you 
are  another  Aunt  Mattie." 
''I  know."  Dorothy's  misery 
threatened  to  engulf  her.  "All  I 
wanted  was  for  Mother  to  ha\'e  one 
perfectly  happy  time,  free  from 
care.  But  —  I  guess  a  woman  like 
Mother  is  never  really  free  from 
care.  Here  Fve  been  getting  the 
biggest  bang  out  of  running  this 
show  —  and  that's  just  what  Mother 
would  have  got  out  of  running  it 
herself.  Not  a  lot  of  worry,  but 
fun— just  plain  fun.  Why  didn't  I 
see  that  before?" 
"Don't  blame  yourself  too  much, 
Dorothy.  It  looked  as  if  you  were 
doing  your  mother  a  big  favor.  I 
think  she's  proud  that  you  wanted 
to  do  it." 
"Perhaps.  But,  right  now  it's 
time  for  the  self-appointed  regent 
to  abdicate  and  let  the  queen  take 
o\'er.  Quick,  Harvey,  tip  the  chil- 
dren off  not  to  let  on  they've  been 
practicing  for  a  program  tomorrow 
night." 
"But  you've  planned  such  a  good 
program!" 
"I?  Mother's  the  program  plan- 
ner in  our  family." 
The  quick  squeeze  Harvey  gave 
her  hand  showed  Dorothy  he  under- 
stood. With  tears  in  her  eyes,  she 
watched  him  quietly  maneuver  the 
grandchildren  out  of  the  room. 
Then  she  squared  her  shoulders  and 
waited  for  a  chance  to  speak  to 
Sarah. 
Dorothy  was  smiling  by  the  time 
she  had  a  chance  to  say,  "Mother- 
Mother,  why  don't  you  ask  the 
grandchildren  to  put  on  some  kind 
of  entertainment  for  the  family  din- 
ner? I'm  sure  they'd  love  to  show 
off  for  the  aunts  and  uncles." 
Edith  Larson,  Manton,  Michigan,  won  third  prize  in  the  Rehef  Society  Short  Story 
Contest  last  year,  and  thus  is  a  second-time  award  winner  in  this  year's  contest.  She  is 
a  graduate  of  Northwestern  University.  Her  husband,  Carl  Larson,  is  in  the  lumber 
business,  and  her  daughter,  Mary  Margaret,  is  a  high  school  junior  with  aspirations 
toward  Brigham  Young  Uni\'ersity.  Mrs.  Larson  is  a  spare-time  writer  whose  work  has 
appeared  in  several  national  magazines.  At  present,  her  writing  time  is  being  seriously 
interrupted  by  an  original  television  program  for  children  which  she  directs  on  her 
hometown  station.  She  comments  that  she  is  as  active  in  the  Traverse  City  Branch  of 
the  Church  as  a  distance  of  forty  miles  permits.  She  is  currently  serving  as  Y.W.INLLA. 
president. 
CJuture  uiesoh 
esoive 
Hazel  M.  Thomson 
Dishes  to  be  washed, 
Scrubbing  to  be  done; 
Clothes  to  hang  out, 
W^hile  yet  there  is  sun. 
Socks  to  be  darned, 
Shirts  to  be  mended; 
Supper  time  comes. 
The  work  still  isn't  ended. 
Ld  write  the  great  verse, 
If  there  were  hours  to  borrow, 
The  words  sing  in  my  heart, 
I  shall  write  them  .  .  .  tomorrow.

JACKSON  LAKE  AND  MOUNT  MORAN,  WYOMING 
uientagi 
Leslie  Savage  Clark