[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Lesson | Title: Reunion | Author: Miles]
[Reunion Eunice J. Miles]
124 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1957 
...  I  told  the  brethren  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  \\'as  the  most  correct  of  any 
book  on  earth,  and  the  keystone  of  our 
religion,  and  a  man  would  get  nearer  to 
God  by  abiding  by  its  precepts,  than  by 
any  other  book  (D.  H.  C.  IV,  page  461). 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  stated 
that  The  Book  of  Mormon  is: 
.  .  .  the  only  book  written  which  has 
the  personal  endorsement  of  God  by  His 
voice  (The  Voice  From  the  Dust). 
And  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
informing  us  about  his  experience 
with  The  Book  of  Mormon,  wrote: 
As  a  boy  of  fifteen  I  read,  carefully  and 
prayerfully,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
there  came  into  my  heart  an  abiding  and 
firm  testimony  of  its  divine  authenticity. 
From  that  day  to  this  its  wonderful  teach- 
ings have  been  a  comfort,  a  blessing  and 
a  guide  to  me, 
I  thank  God  from  the  bottom  of  my 
heart  that  I  read  the  life  of  Nephi  in  my 
youth.  I  fell  in  love  with  him  then,  and 
his  life  has  influenced  mine  for  good  more 
than  that  of  any  other  character  in  ancient 
history,  sacred  or  profane — save  only  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world  {The  Voice  Fiom 
the  Dust). 
In  an  article  entitled,  ''Books 
That  Influenced  America/'  a  selec- 
tion was  made  of  the  one  hundred 
books  printed  before  1900  which 
had  the  most  influence  on  the  life 
and  culture  of  the  American  people. 
In  a  chronological  list  of  the  books 
appears  the  name  of  The  Book  of 
Mormon. 
This  book,  however,  has  not  only 
had  an  influence  upon  the  lives  of 
Americans,  it  has  influenced  all  oth- 
ers from  the  various  countries  of  the 
world  who  have  accepted  its  truth 
and  embraced  its  teachings.  In  the 
126  years  since  the  first  edition  ap- 
peared, over  2,500,000  copies  of 
The  Book  of  Mormon  have  been 
printed.  With  the  possible  excep- 
tion of  the  Bible,  The  Book  of 
Mormon  has  been  translated  into 
more  languages  than  has  any  other 
book.  Currently,  editions  of  the 
book  are  available  in  twenty-one 
different  languages:  English,  Dan- 
ish, German,  French,  Italian,  Welsh, 
Hawaiian,  Swedish,  Maori,  Dutch, 
Samoan,  Tahitian,  Turkish,  Japa- 
nese, Czechoslovakian,  Armenian, 
Portuguese,  Tongan,  Deseret  Alpha- 
bet, Spanish,  Norwegian  and  Braille. 
It  has  also  been  translated  into  Hin- 
doostani,  Hebrew,  Russian,  Finnish, 
Hungarian,  Serbo-Croatian,  Filipino, 
Bulgarian,  and  Greek.  However,  it 
has  not,  as  yet,  been  published  in 
these  languages.  Thus  we  see  that 
The  Book  of  Mormon  has  gone 
forth  as  a  messenger  of  the  truth  to 
many  peoples  of  many  lands  testify- 
ing of  the  divinity  and  resurrection 
of  Jesus  Christ. 
The  Book  of  Mormon 
As  a  Witness  for  Chiist 
Throughout  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon history  the  prophets  taught 
the  peoples  on  this  Western  Hemis- 
phere about  the  coming  of  the  Sav- 
ior, his  mission  here  upon  the  earth, 
and  the  fact  that,  after  his  resurrec- 
tion, he  would  visit  the  people  on 
the  Western  Hemisphere. 
On  this  continent,  as  on  the  eastern, 
Jesus  manifested  himself  from  time  to 
time  to  his  faithful  servants,  before  his 
coming  in  the  flesh.  He  was  the  guide 
of  his  people,  the  guardian  of  the  church 
and  the  revealer  of  the  mind  and  will  of 
the  Godhead  [Dictionary  of  The  Book 
of  Mormon,  by  Elder  George  Reynolds, 
page  133,  1954  edition). 
When  Jesus  appeared  unto  the 
Nephites  in  the  flesh  he  did  so  as 
a  glorified,  resurrected  Being  com- 
ing    out     of     the     heavens.      He

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
125 
stretched  forth  his  hand  to  the  mul- 
titude saying: 
.  .  .  behold,  I  am  the  hght  and  the  hfe 
of  the  world;  and  I  have  drunk  out  of 
that  bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath 
given  me,  and  have  glorified  the  Father 
in  taking  upon  me  the  sins  of  the  world, 
in  the  which  I  have  suffered  the  will  of 
the  Father  in  all  things  from  the  begin- 
ning. 
And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Jesus 
had  spoken  these  words  the  whole  multi- 
tude fell  to  the  earth;  for  they  remem- 
bered that  it  had  been  prophesied  among 
them  that  Christ  should  show  himself  un- 
to them  after  his  ascension  into  heaven. 
And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord  spake 
unto  them  saying: 
Arise  and  come  forth  unto  me,  that  ye 
may  thrust  your  hands  into  my  side,  and 
also  that  ye  may  feel  the  prints  of  the 
nails  in  my  hands  and  in  my  feet,  that 
ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  God  of  Israel, 
and  the  God  of  the  whole  earth,  and 
have  been  slain  for  the  sins  of  the  world. 
.  .  .  and  this  they  did  do,  going  forth 
one  by  one  until  they  had  all  gone  forth, 
and  did  see  with  their  eyes  and  did  feel 
with  their  hands,  and  did  know  of  a 
surety  and  did  bear  record,  that  it  was 
he,  of  whom  it  was  written  by  the  proph- 
ets, that  should  come  ( 3  Nephi  11:11-15). 
After  Jesus'  ministry  here  upon 
the  earth,  he  continued  to  guide 
and  direct  the  Nephite  peoples, 
manifesting  himself  from  time  to 
time  unto  his  chosen  prophets.  Mo- 
roni testifies  of  this,  for  in  his  fare- 
well to  the  Gentiles  he  writes: 
And  then  shall  ye  know  that  I  have 
seen  Jesus,  and  that  he  hath  talked  with 
me  face  to  face,  and  that  he  told  me  in 
plain  humility,  even  as  a  man  telleth  an- 
other in  mine  own  language,  concerning 
these  things: 
And  now,  I  would  commend  you  to 
seek  this  Jesus  of  whom  the  prophets 
and  apostles  have  written,  that  the  grace 
of  God  the  Father,  and  also  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  which 
beareth  record  of  them,  may  be  and  abide 
in  you  forever.  Amen  (Ether  12:39,  4i)- 
The  Book  of  Mormon  As  a  History 
The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  history 
of  ancient  peoples  upon  the  Ameri- 
can continent.  It  portrays  their 
problems  and  struggles,  the  exhor- 
tations of  their  prophets  and  lead- 
ers, and  the  ministry  of  the  resur- 
rected Savior  among  them  as  he 
organized  his  Church  and  estab- 
lished its  principles  and  ordinances. 
Those  principles  which  governed 
and  promoted  successful  and  happy 
living  among  those  ancient  peoples 
have  not  changed.  The  truths  are 
eternal.  Father  Lehi,  in  teaching 
his  children,  said,  '\  .  .  men  are,  that 
they  might  have  joy"  (2  Nephi 
2:25);  and  each  succeeding  prophet 
throughout  the  entire  scripture  re- 
lates how  this  joy  may  be  obtained, 
not  only  in  this  life  but  in  the  life 
to  come.  The  mighty  prophet.  Al- 
ma, expressed  this  fundamental 
truth  in  these  words: 
.  .  .  inasmuch  as  ye  shall  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  ye  shall  prosper 
in  the  land  ...  for  I  do  know  that  who- 
soever shall  put  their  trust  in  God  shall 
be  supported  in  their  trials,  and  their 
troubles,  and  their  affhctions,  and  shall  be 
hfted  up  at  the  last  day  (Alma  36:1,  3). 
Alma  says  that  through  following 
this  advice,  ''.  .  .  the  Lord  doth 
give  me  exceeding  great  joy  in  the 
fruit  of  my  labors"  (Alma  36:25). 
(See  also  Alma  41:5-7;  Mosiah  1:7; 
2  Nephi  1:20;  1  Nephi  22:31;  1  Ne- 
phi 4:14.) 
Contents  of  The  Book  of  Mormon 
The  Book  of  Mormon  was  trans- 
lated in  a  little  over  two  months  by

126 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY   1957 
a  voung  man  in  his  middle  twenties 
who  had  relatively  little  schooling. 
No  human  being,  regardless  of  his 
background,  training,  and  ability 
could,  of  himself,  have  created  such 
a  monumental  work  in  so  short  a 
time.  The  book  consists  of  522 
pages  and  has: 
.  .  .  fifteen  main  parts  or  divisions, 
known,  with  one  execption,  as  books,  each 
designated  by  the  name  of  its  principal 
author  (Rook  of  Mormon,  Brief  Analysis 
of  The  Book  of  Mormon). 
Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  states  that 
it  has: 
,  .  .  fifty-four  chapters  dealing  with 
wars,  twenty-one  liistorical  chapters,  fifty- 
five  chapters  on  visions  and  prophecies 
.  .  .  seventy-one  chapters  on  doctrine  and 
exhortation,  twenty-one  chapters  on  the 
ministry  of  Christ. 
As  a  literary  work,  Elder  Brown 
points  out,  The  Book  of  Mormon 
employs: 
.  .  .  figures  of  speech,  similies,  meta- 
phors, narrations,  exposition,  description, 
oratory,  epic,  lyric,  logic,  and  parables.  .  .  . 
For  over  one  hundred  years,  some  of 
the  best  students  and  scholars  of  the 
world  have  been  trying  to  prove  from 
the  Bible  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is 
false,  but  not  one  of  them  has  been  able 
to  prove  that  anything  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  not  in  strict  harmony  with 
the  scriptures,  with  the  Bible  and  with 
the  W'ord  of  God  ("The  Profile  of  a 
Prophet,"  by  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown). 
The  Book  of  Mormon  Diiected 
to  a  Future  Generation 
The  Book  of  Mormon  is  probably 
the  only  book  ever  written  which  is 
directed  to  a  future,  unseen  gen- 
eration. Nephi,  the  son  of  Lehi,
