[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Mary E. | Author: Hobbies]
Dalton Finds Happiness in Her Hobbies Ape on Mary E. Jones Dalton, Roy, Utah, is past eighty-nine years old, she never neglects her hobbies, or her "'real'"' work. Making quilts is an activity which she calls her "incessant" hobby, and the exquisite tulip pattern illustrated in the picture is one of her favorite designs. 'This pattern enables Mrs. Jones to experiment with contrasting colors and with various tints of the same color in designing the tulip bouquets in their "pottery bowls." She also crochets exquisite gifts in lacy starched designs and the popular "upstanding" patterns. Knitting and rug making are long-time hobbies, which provide some of the most useful gifts which Mrs. Jones so much enjoys giving to her many friends and relatives. She is the mother of nine children, grandmother to twenty-seven, great grandmother to fifty-six, and great-great-grandmother to eleven. She keeps up her own fiveroom home, rents an apartment, attends all her meetings, does temple work, and manifests such a keen and joyous interest in life that she "cuts circles" around many younger people. She has visited every temple except the Hawaiian, and the temple in Bern, Switzerland. When Portals Close Mabel Law Atkinson How beautiful are those we love When finite portals gently close And precious memories unfold Like petals of a perfect rose! Page 108 Bitter Medicine PART 2 Olive W. Burt Synopsis: Helen Lund for some time has been worried about a neighbor, May Turner, whose habit of gossiping may cause trouble in the community. At a P. T. A. Meeting, May tries to find out how the Carlsons financed a new Cadillac. Helen refuses to offer any information, but May hints that the car may have been financed by a crooked business deal. ELEN Lund did manage to forget about May 'Turner and her gossipy imnuendoes for several days. 'Then, suddenly, she was brought face to face with them again. She was sewing a little costume for Jill to wear in the Primary playlet when the telephone rang. She lifted the receiver to hear 'Tess Carlson's voice, high-pitched and almost hysterical. "Helen? Helen, I'm so glad you're home. I'm coming right over. I've got to talk to you!" "Of course, Tess. Come on." Tess didn't wait for anything more. She slammed down her receiver and Helen, somewhat mystified, slowly replaced her own receiver in the cradle. 'Two minutes later 'Tess was at the door. As soon as Helen saw her neighbor's face her curiosity changed to alarm. "What is it, Tess? Has something happened to Jamie? Or to Jim? What is it?" "Oh, Helen, it's awful! I don't know what to do! I called Marge Lewis and she said to talk to you, you might know what it's all about. She said she saw you and May Turner talking at the P. T. A. Meeting and afterward someone said you were talking about Jim." Helen's face flushed, and she was about to say, "I wasn't talking!" But before she could get the words said, Tess went on, "Someone's been saying awful things about Jim —just because he bought a new »"? Car "Well, if that's all,' Helen interrupted, "you needn't get upset about it. It can't matter much." "Oh, can't it?" Tess cried. "You just don't know, Helen. Somehow Mr. Nestor — he's head of the law firm, you know, where Jim works — well, somehow he heard something. Goodness knows what! But this morning he called Jim into his office and said, 'What's this I hear about your being mixed up in some crooked uranium deal?' "' "Oh, no!" Helen exclaimed. "It's not possible, Tess! It's just not possible!"' Tess nodded her head and tears filled her eyes. ""That's what he said to Jim—to my Jim! And Jim just stood there with his mouth open. He didn't know what Mr. Nestor was talking about, and when he told Mr. Nestor he didn't have any idea what he was getting at, he still acted suspicious." Tess flopped down onto the settee and began to sob. "Jim phoned me. He's awfully upset, and I called Marge to see if she'd heard anything and she told me to talk to you. Oh, Helen, what is it? Crooked uranium deal — I never heard of Page 109 110 I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 such a thing! We don't even have any uranium stock, or anything!" "Listen, Tess," Helen said quietly. "Let me tell you exactly what was said at the P. T. A. Meeting, and maybe we can get some idea." Briefly she outlined May's attempts to extract information and the woman's carelessly tossed bait that Jim must have made some money in a crooked uranium deal. "She didn't really mean it, Tess. She was just saying that to try to get something out of me. It was too silly. I guess some of the women standing nearby could have heard her, but no one — not a single soul would believe it for a minute. We all know Jim." "Well, someone believed it and passed it on for the truth. And somehow it got to Mr. Nestor, and now, maybe, Jim will not be made a partner." "Not on a mere rumor like that, Tess. You tell Jim exactly what happened and have him explain it to Mr. Nestor. Tell him to keep calm, treat it for just what it is, some gossipy woman's careless remark. Everything will be all right. I know it will, Tess. Jim isn't home now, is he?" Tess shook her head. "Well, then, dry your eyes. I've just made a lemon-meringue pie, your favorite, Tess.