[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social | Author: Larson]
Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 7—Be Ye Therefore Perfect" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, May 28, 1957 Objective: To suggest the importance of acquiring desirable qualities and to show the blessings in store for those who love the Lord. HE Prophet Joseph Smith was well prepared to teach the Latter-day Saint women about God and his attributes. By 1842, when he organized and instructed the Relief Society, although a young man of thirty-six years, the Prophet had experienced a closeness to God such as few other prophets who ever lived. After a vision in the Kirtland Temple he recorded the following: And now, after the many testimonics which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voicc bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father (D. & C. 76:22-23). The Prophet knew whereof he spoke, then, when he said: If you wish to go where God is, you must be like God, or possess the principles which God possesses, for if we are not drawing towards God in pminciple, we are going from Him and drawing towards the devil (D. H. C. IV, page 588). Thus, in capsule form, the Prophet summarized a great principle of perfection. 'This goal is neither quickly nor easily attained, but any effort to emulate God will reap bounteous blessings. As we fashion our lives we experience what is possibly the greatest LESSON DEPARTMENT blessing bestowed generally upon all men, i. E., freedom of thought, and its product, freedom of decision. "Where there is a mountain top there is also a valley" (Ibid., V, page 20), the Prophet once informed the Relief Society. Between the mountain and valley, good and evil, or any extremes, lie grades and degrees, and it is up to us, individually, as we face life's problems, to consider and decide where we shall be. One writer in The Book of Mormon put it this way: Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedient unto man. And they are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself (2 Nephi 2a). The power of the gospel lies in its ability to influence people to good works through the force of ideas and the pull of perfection and salvation, rather than by compulsion. 'The Prophet, while warning the women against error, primarily stressed the positive. Over and again, both to the Relief Society and to the Church generally, the Prophet urged the saints to seek and develop the godlike virtues. ''Is not God good?" he asked. "Then you be good; if He is faithful, then you be faithful. Add to your faith virtue, to virtue knowledge, and seek for every good thing" (D. H. C., IV, page 588). The Prophet once commented: "I am like a huge, rough stone rolling down from a high mountain." We are all "rough stones" in a sense, waiting to be polished. Each 139 of us, guided by the available light and knowledge, can become "a smooth and polished shaft in the quiver of the Almighty" (Ibid., V, page 401). Now let us consider a few of the affirmative traits which Joseph Smith urged the women to acquire. Charity At one of the Relief Society meetings the Prophet attended, he read from the 13th Chapter of lst Corinthians as follows: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal (Ibid., IV, page 606). He then cited the lack of charity in the world as an evidence of the limited knowledge of the principles of godliness. "Ihe power and glory of godliness," he said, "is spread out on a broad principle to throw out the mantle of charity. God does not look on sin with allowance, but when men have sinned, there must be allowance made for them" (Ibid., V, page 24). To be charitable does not mean we endorse the faults and failings of others, primarily it suggests not judging others. Tolerance "You must enlarge your souls towards each other," the Prophet said. "Don't be limited in your views with regard to your neighbor's virtue, but beware of self-righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues, and not think yourselves more righteous than others." "Bear with each other's failings," he urged, "as an indulgent parent bears with the foibles of his children" (Ibid. IV, page 606). 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 The ability to endure, without criticism, the beliefs, practices, or habits differing from one's own, represents a desirable trait which should be sought by all who desire perfection. Mercy Addressing the Relief Society on one occasion, the Prophet said he was going to preach mercy. He posed a question: "Suppose that Jesus Christ and holy angels should object to us on frivolous things, what would become of us?" He answered his question by saying, "We must be merciful to one another, and overlook small things" (Ibid., V, page 23). Mercy implies compassion enough to forbear punishment or criticism of those who warrant it. " 'Fret not thyself because of evil doers,'" he advised. "God will see to it" (Ibid., V, page 21). "The nearer we get to our Heavenly Father," the Prophet said, "the more we are disposed to look with compassion on perishing souls; we feel that we want to take them upon our shoulders, and cast their sins behind our backs." When he talked of mercy he emphasized that his talk was "intended for all this society; if you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another" (Ibid., V, page 24). Forgiveness Charity, tolerance, mercy, forgiveness, all and each suggest a similar state of mind. If we truly forgive, we banish from our hearts the resentments we have against the acts and omissions of others. Once the Prophet indicated he had been instrumental in bringing iniquity to light. "It was a _ melancholy thought," he said, "and awful that so many should place themselves under the condemnation of the devil, and going to perdition. With deep feeling he said that they are fellow mortals, we loved them once, shall we not encourage them to reformation? We have not {yetI forgiven them seventy times seven, as our Savior directed; perhaps we have not forgiven them once. There is now a day of salvation to such as repent and reform" (Ibid., V, pp. 19-20). Kindness The Prophet told the women that by the influence of kindness they could sanctify and cleanse from all unrighteousness those who repent. The love of tenderness, he observed, had great power over the mind, and actions of all persons. Prayer The Prophet made a promise in the name of the Lord, saying "that that soul who has righteousness enough to ask God in the secret place for life, every day of their lives, shall live to three score years and ten" (Ibid., page 24). It is an interesting observation that most of the knowledge revealed to the Prophet Joseph came after he had sought his Heavenly Father in prayer. The Prophet pointed out on August 31, 1842, the efficacy of the prayers in his behalf and expressed gratitude to the Relief Society for their prayers: Inasmuch as the Lord Almighty has preserved me until today, He will continue to preserve me, by the united faith and prayers of the Saints, until I have LESSON DEPARTMENT fully accomplished my mission in this life, and so firmly established the dispensation of the fullness of the priesthood in the last days, that all the powers of earth and hell can never prevail against it. God loves you, and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much: let them not cease to ascend to God continually in my behalf (Ibid., V, pp. 139-141). During this same meeting "President Smith... Addressed the throne of grace in fervent prayer," the minutes read. In an earlier meeting, the Prophet advised the sisters:. Always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people, that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers (Ibid., IV, pp. 604-605). Knowledge One of the Prophet's great sermons was preached in the Grove to the Church at Nauvoo on April 10, 1842. In prefacing his remarks he said, "I shall speak with authority of the Priesthood in the name of the Lord God." After discussing evil influence he then made this profound statement, as found in the Journal of Wilford Woodruff: A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge, he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth (Ibid., IV, 588). Virtue In the early days of the Relief Society the Prophet said the Society should be careful of its membership; that it should be a select group of the "virtuous" and "those who would walk circumspectly." 'The 141 privileges and blessings of the Priesthood, the Prophet suggested, followed a virtuous life and diligence in keeping the commandments. Blessings The Prophet did not stop with urging the women to take upon themselves sterling qualities. He went on to tell them of the blessings that could be expected from Relief Society membership and from applying his teachings of the gospel in their lives. Each Latter-day Saint woman has been promised "Keep my commandments continually, and a crown of righteousness thou shalt receive" (D. & C. 25:15). When the Relief Society was organized the Prophet said: And now I turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth (D. H. C. IV, page 607). The women of the Church can testify to the fulfillment of this prophecy. Since that time the blessings of Latter-day Saint women have been continuous. These women are blessed as no other women were ever blessed. In this organization Relief Society members have the privilege of working under the authority of the Holy Priesthood, of learning of God and his ways, of sharing precious testimonies with one another. 'Together they grow as wives, as mothers, as homemakers, and as children of God. 'The blessings of mothers in Zion are meaningful and opportunity-laden. "If this Society listen to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church," promised 142 LADIES SACRED THREE PART CHORUSES exams COME UNTO HiM—Handel 20 «A ETERNAL LIFE—Dungan _.20 — HOLY REDEEMER—Marchetti 15 —— IF GOD FORGOT—O'Hara 25 nail IN THY FORM—Madsep 20 =a KING OF GLORY—Parks 20 a LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.20 oe OH, MAY I KNOW THE LORD AS FRIEND—Madsen 20 a SPIRIT OF GOD—Neidlinger.18 <i THANKS BE TO GOD—Dickson.16 Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank Breer cee ccc weet cece ns cere er cee n ewes e cease ee eee ees eSOOSSBSOSESsaner DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Cl On Approval [] Charge [) Money Enclosed Address _2 ssssseeesceeceeeee Cy 2 on. Ey ee ee ee Daynes Mis I TTT 7 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of 2260 WashuiecTon BORD. ADen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 the Prophet, "they shall have power to command queens in their midst" (Ibid., IV, page 605). Latter-day Saint women have been blessed with leadership qualities unequalled by their sisters who are not members of the Church. This is realized by those who have opportunities to observe both groups in leadership capacities. One choice blessing is found in the association of the young women with members of long standing. 'To this association the young woman brings her youth, her dreams, and her problems and partakes of the seasoned experience of her more mature sisters. She eagerly absorbs the faith and testimony and wisdom of these older women. All Relief Society members who give of themselves in service learn that while the objects of their charity receive benefit, they, the givers, receive the most. Eliza R. Snow, the poetess, wrote in her poem "Evening Thoughts":... To be a Saint requires A noble sacrifice, an arduous toil, A persevering aim; the great reward Awaiting the grand consummation will Repay the price, however costly; and The pathway of the Saint, the safest path will prove. This same Eliza R. Snow, who at one time headed all three of the Church auxiliaries to which women are called, wrote of the blessings of our women as follows: The Latter-day Saint w