[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: The | Author: Jensen]
(To be concluded) <P She Voice of Peace Isabelle Jensen Oh, listen to the voice of peace; It fills the courts above, And whispers in the lonely vales Of thy redeeming love. On every leaf and tuft of moss, It scribes a pledge divine, Points to the vales beyond the grave Beyond the sands of time. Oh, listen to the voice of peace; The sylvan echoes clear Reach out beyond the ebbing tide, To noble spirits dear. The minstrels waft it far and wide, On life's unbounded shore; Oh, listen to the voice of peace, Till time shall be no more. Candy for Valentine s Day Mary J. Wilson MotassEs TAFFY 1 ¢c. Sugar 3 tbsp. Butter " ¢c. Water 1 tsp. Vinegar 1 c. Light molasses 7 tsp. Salt Mix sugar, molasses, salt, vinegar, and water in pan. Cook to 242°F. (firm ball). Add butter and cook to 265° (very hard ball). Pour into lightly buttered shallow pans, let stand undisturbed until cool enough to handle. Butter hands lightly, pull until candy has a satin-like finish and is elastic. Pull out into thin rolls, cut with scissors, then Wrap in wax paper. IcELAND Moss (Hard Candy) 4 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Anise extract 2 c. White syrup red coloring 1 c. Water Combine sugar, syrup, and water and cook to 310°. Do not stir while cooking. Add anise extract and desired red coloring. Mix well. Pour onto marble slab. When slightly cooled, pass well-oiled candy knife under the mass of candy. Cut into squares. Wrap each piece individually. STUFFED DaTtTE Drops 1 lb. Pitted dates (about 70) 1% c. Sifted flour 1 egg ' tsp. Baking powder 13 0z. Package pecan nuts 72 tsp. Salt "4 c. Shortening "' ¢. Commercial sour cream % c. Brown sugar Stuff dates with nut halves. Cream shortening and sugar until light. Beat in egg. Sift dry ingredients, add alternately with sour cream to creamed mixture. Stir in dates, drop on greased cookie sheet, a date per cookie, and bake in 400° oven for eight to ten minutes. Cool and top with panocha icing. PANOCHA ICING 1 c. Brown sugar (packed) "2 ¢. Butter % c. Milk 1% to 2c. Confectioner's sugar Melt butter in saucepan. Add brown sugar. Boil over low heat two minutes, stirring 'constantly. Stir in milk. Bring to boil, stirring constantly. Cool to lukewarm. Gradually add confectioner's sugar. Beat until thick enough to spread. If icing becomes too stiff, add a little hot water. > A ttic eeu Maude Rubin Paper lace — a bleeding heart Pierced by Daniel Cupid's dart— Clasping hands, forget-me-nots, A dove of peace for happy thoughts— Faded writing, cramped and fine— All on Grandma's valentine! Page 113 Lf &xplore the Upstairs Zipporah Layton Stewart I'S lonesome up there now—but I the rooms are filled with things and memories that "bless and burn." Guess I never would go up those well-worn steps again, if it were not to lay away a quilt or to spray mothproofer on the blankets that are stored on the closet shelves, and seldom used now that the boys and Mary are gone away. It's an interesting place up there. Somehow, through the years I have never cared to change or make it modern and pretty, as most folks have done with unused bedrooms. The scars of electric train tracks and mechanical toys are on the linoleum floors, and, in a large dark closet under the roof, two electric trains and yards and yards of shining track silently wait to be polished and oiled and played with again. In that same attic closet, a dozen or more automobiles, perfect replicas of past models, are waiting. Then there are the windup toys — Amos and Andy and their famous Ford, a negro toe dancer, and a large singing top, waiting patiently to be wound up again to thrill a younger generation who may play with them and find interest and curiosity in their antiquated styles and colors. In an old steamer trunk at one end of the long closet, I peek in at Mary's dolls — dolls of the past, baby "wetum"' dolls, dolls of other nations, character dolls, a pretty standup doll, with a blue dress given her by the captain on the "Lurline,"' and, last, the lovely keepsake ""Horseman" doll sent to her from Hawaii Page 114 by John when he was on his mission. 'They, too, wait patiently in the trunk for a new little girl's arms to love and play with them again. Hanging on the wall and in corners of this large closet are boxing gloves, fencing swords, a bow made from Osage orange, and a quiver filled with arrows, waiting since Boy Scout days to be used again. On the long high closet shelf I find some tennis shoes, a pair of track shoes — and one pretty pair of white shoe skates — Mary's last pair before she went away to college. Hanging on the long rod beneath the shelf, along with costumes and other clothes, are some pretty evening gowns and three or four lovely bridesmaids' dresses; one especially pretty lavender taffeta, a soft, creamy yellow one, and the pink and white net worn at Helen's and Dick's wedding during wartime when taffetas and satin were not so plentiful. 'These, now old-fashioned frocks, are just waiting. I love to touch them, and caress their soft, silky folds. They, too, bring a flood of pleasant memories, and, for some reason, I do not care to use them for the material alone. Two bedrooms open up together. They were the places where the boys slept, and the neighbor boys played on stormy days. 'The beds are made up with fresh linen now waiting to be occupied by their original owners when they return on an occasional visit. The bookshelves along one end of the west room are filled with all I EXPLORE THE UPSTAIRS the books of their childhood days. Mother Goose books, Hans Christian Anderson's stories, Arabian Nights stories, beautifully illustrated by Howard Pyle, Joel Chandler Harris' book about Uncle Remus, Bible stories, Robert Louis Stevenson's stories, and poems and books about animals by Ernest 'Thompson Seton. At the other end, are shelves with books of high school and college days, the classics, law books, art books, a few fine old novels and books on war and adventure — books and stories to satisfy the interests of all of them, waiting to be opened, read, and loved again. HE walls of these two bedrooms are interesting, too. 'They are not adorned with pretty pictures, but with framed certificates, and diplomas from high school and college, Priesthood quorum awards, fraternity initiation certificates, law school diplomas, and, hanging proudly above them all, a certificate of life membership in the National Rifleman's Association issued to one boy in 1949. In a small drawer in the dresser of the west room I find a number of prized trophies from small arms clubs and rifle and pistol associations. In another larger drawer I see the gas masks used by John and Dick when they were gunners on B-12 bombers during the war, and, tucked in a corner of this same drawer, is a small black book with a diary or log of Dick's missions over Germany. A brief story of each mission is outlined, telling the target, the weather, the take-off, his personal feelings, and results. The last story is not complete, and I remember that on this mission they were shot down over Germany 115 and did not return to the base in England. For a moment I find myself pausing to thank God that his life was spared through that terrible ordeal. In another drawer I find the precious war letters tied in a tight bundle with a string. Among them I find the cablegrams sent on our birthdays and Mother's and Father's Days. Those yellow slips of paper reminded us that we were never forgotten. They were so very young and so far away. Not all of the letters are in this bundle, just the ones I especially wanted to keep, the more intimate ones—when each boy seemed to pour out his heart a bit about his religion or his longing for home, or a farewell letter as he was departing for overseas. These letters, though not so postmarked, came from all over the world. In this drawer, also, I find three certificates of honorable release from the Air Corps and Navy and a few badges and trophies for deeds well done while they were serving their country. In another trunk in the far end of the closet I open and look over and spray with mothproofer two Army Air Corps suits and one beautiful suit of navy blue with overcoat to match made from Australian wool and purchased especially for Birge to come home in. Yes, that trunk is filled with memories, too. Well I could reminisce forever telling about the treasures and memories in those upstair rooms. Guess Pll go up those stairs again and again, when I feel a bit sentimental, and want another visit with Mary and the boys. \\_FROM THE FIELD I? All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Phyllis D. Smith CULF STATES MISSION, SOUTH TEXAS DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR CONFERENCE AT CORPUS CHRISTI, October 21, 1956 Front row, seated, beginning second from the left: Nancy Elliff, President, Corpus Christi Branch Relief Socicty; Phyllis D. Smith, President, Gulf States Mission Relief Socicty; Mae Pool, President, South Texas District Relief Society, and chorister for this group; Mary Toyn, President, Victoria, Texas, Branch Relief Society. Shirley Clifton at the organ. President Phyllis D. Smith reports that this group presented the music for the conference sessions when Elder Alma Sonne and Sister Sonne visited the mission. Page 116 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 117 Submitted by Mabel H. Pond BENSON STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 28, 1956 "All nine wards of Benson Stake were represented in the Singing Mothers chorus of eighty voices, that presented music at both general sessions of stake conference in October," reports Mabel H. Pond, President, Benson Stake Relief Society. Leora Smith directed the chorus, with Myrl Kendell as pianist, and Adonia Dennis as organist. Submitted by Roma C. Esplin ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), LEEDS WARD VISITING TEACHERS ESTABLISH ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR SEVEN YEARS December 1956 Front row, left to right: Etta Mariger; Margaret Hartley; Druie Bradshaw; Ruth Porter; Dallice Hartman (deceased since picture was taken); Ethel Stirling; Hazel McMullin. Second row, left to right: Karma Sorenson, Blanche Eastman; Jessie Eagar; Ellen Savage; Lula Sullivan; Geraldine Stirling; Ethel George; Helen Stirling.

Back row, left to right: Evelyn McMullin, President, Leeds Ward Relief Society; Rose Hartley; Wilma Beal; Marguerite Smith; Pearl Hafen; Kate Allen; Maida Sullivan. Visiting teachers not in the picture but who helped in achieving this record are Louise Stirling, Mildred Dalton, Daisy Boulton, Thelma Holden, Zella Allen, 'Tana Sullivan, Lillian Stratton, Iris Millett. Roma C. Esplin is president of St. George Stake Relief Society. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Photograph submitted by Edith Hubbard BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTITERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, seated, beginning third from the left: Shirley Hubbard, pianist; Edsel Prescott, organist; Edith Hubbard, President, Bannock Stake Relief Society; Ruth Jenkins, director of the chorus. Sister Hubbard reports that all five wards of Bannock Stake were represented in this chorus. "These busy mothers have prepared music for the fall conference for the past five years." Photograph submitted by Lenore G. Merrill LONG BEACH STAKE (CALIFORNIA), LONG BEACH FOURTH WARD OPENING SOCIAL IN FORM OF A POLITICAL CONVENTION September 25, 1956 Scated in front, at the right: Maude Rowan, President, Long Beach Fourth Ward Relicf Society; Arden Arnold, social scicnce class leader; Katherine Poole, litcrature class leader, who planned and wrote the program for the social. Sister Rowan reports the successful efforts of this ward in securing an increase im membership: ''We started our membership drive by dividing our visiting teaching districts into cleven groups, giving each a name... Each chairman selected a color from construction paper and made a campaign button for each of her group to wear. Large banners were made for each group, and also three slogan banners... Each chairman NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 personally visited each woman on her district besides the regular visiting teachers going to see the ladies. We sent out invitations also, and then there was a notice in our Sunday pamphlet. Notice was also given from the pulpit, that every lady was invited.... We made a beautiful banner of blue satin trimmed in gold fringe and gold lettering. This will be hung on the wall and each group that has the largest attendance that weck will have its name on the banner. We will have rallies during the year. There were two parties—the Relief Society Party and the Excuse Party. When all ballots w ere counted, the Relief Society party had 102 votes and the Excuse Party, one vote." Lenore G. Merrill is president of Long Beach Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Sylvia Stone TONGAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENT VISITS SCATTERED ISLAND RELIEF SOCIETIES, November 1956 Sister Sylvia Stone, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, writes about the modes of travel which she uses to visit the meetings of Relief Society sisters on the various Tongan islands. She reports: "... On the main island we have a car that takes us to most of the branches; there are a few, however, to which we have to walk during the rainy season.. _ This picture was taken on the island of Eua, the only Tongan island with mountain streams.... I have had no alternative so I have made the trip horseback. On this occasion two Catholic sisters, who are from America... Heard I was coming and sent their buggy for me to ride in. About half way we passed their home, they had the American flag waving from their window and invited us in to have a dish of ice cream.... We were able to hold a wonderful conference with the saints there, and I was happy to hear of their work in the Relief Society."' In the picture, left to right, are the driver; Sister Stone; Lois Humphries; Fred W. Stone, President, Tongan Mission; E. Morton, with Lavina Bird, behind Brother Morton. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Photograph submitted by Nannah C. Stokes IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSICAL NUMBERS FOR STAKE CONFERENCE AND TRI-'STATE CONVENTION October 1956 Evelyn Hook, stake organist, and Edna Johnson, stake chorister, are seated on the front row at right. Nannah C. Stokes, President, Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the activities of the Singing Mothers: "This chorus furnished the music for the October stake quarterly conference. 'They also sang two numbers at a tri-stake convention in August. 'There are seventy members in the chorus; however, all were not present when the picture was taken." Submitted by Zina R. Engebretsen NORWEGIAN MISSION, BERGEN BRANCH, SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE, November 1956 Front row, left to right: Selma Grimstad; Ragnhild Sunde; Jenny Lohne; Zina R. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 Engebretsen, President, Norwegian Mission Relief Society; Linea Hansen; Annie B. Olsen; Mary Pedersen. Second row, left to right: Ella M. Synnestvedt; Elly Michelsen; Inger Hoff; Berith Folkedel; Gunvor Watne; Odlaug Mork Pedersen; Inger Olsen; Milly Bjorndal, conductor. Back row, left to right: Margit Michelsen; Edith Pedersen; 'Turid Waage; Klara Hitland; Ellen Andreasen; Anna Fluge. Sister Engebretsen reports that this is the "first Singing Mother group ever to sing for any occasion in the Norwegian Mission. The group is from Bergen, one of the larger branches on the west coast of Norway." Photograph submitted by Annie B. Larson WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION, EDMONTON SECOND BRANCH CONDUCTS SUCCESSFUL CHILDREN'S FASHION SHOW AND BAZAAR, November 3, 1956 Sister Annie B. Larson, President of the Western Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports that a very successful bazaar was held by the Relief Society of Edmonton Second Branch on November 3, 1956, under the direction of Sister Hattie Jensen, President of Edmonton Second Branch Relief Society, and her counselors, Marguerite Low and Ella Sherwood. Sister Larson writes: 'The bazaar featured a children's fashion show (shown in the picture), a sale of children's clothing, handwoven baskets, copper tooling, petitpoint, quilts, embroidered linens, aprons, lingerie, homemade candies and baked goods, doll clothes, cookbooks, and novelties. There was a fish pond for the children. A delicious lunch was served. "The purpose of the Bazaar was two-fold: to raise necessary funds to carry on the work of the organization and to sponsor love and good fellowship among the sisters by working in unity for a common cause,' 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Photograph submitted by Rita H. Stone SAMOAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY DISTRICT PRESIDENTS Front row, seated, left to right: Alisa Fitisemanu, Vaiola District; Lisi Su'a, Falelima District; Sia'a Purcell, Siumu District; WVaovai Tu'ala, Vailuutai District; Mua Lulualii, Malie District. Back row, standing, left to mght: Pelese Nunn, Manu'a District; Usuia Alofipo Toso, Fagamalo District; Mele Tafua, Mapusaga District; 'Taupaolo 'Togia'i, Sauniatu District; Valila Fonoti, Pago Pago District; Alataua Soli, Pesega District; Jane Moors, Secretary, Samoan Mission Relief Society; Rita H. Stone, President, Samoan Mission Relief Society. Sister Stone reports: "Our Relief Society conference was very inspirational. We have an enrollment of 646 in the Samoan Islands of the Mission, and there were 456 present at the meeting. Each district was represented by its Singing Mothers group. It was a thrill to have them all together."