A Memorial to the Relief Society Sisters Bishop LeGrand Richards Presiding Bishop of the Church (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1948). Think you are wonderful. I believe the Lord thinks you are wonderful. I know what Sister Spafford and her counselors think of you because we have talked and visited together a good many times about what you have done. When you launched your Building program a year ago, I did not have any misgivings. I knew you would do it. You are the only one hundred per centers we have in the Church, in fact, I think you might call yourselves the One Hundred Per Cent Club or organization, if you would like to, and it would always be that because, well, having been a bishop of three different wards and president of a stake, and now for ten years having served as adviser to the General Relief Society Presidency, I have paraphrased the old statement that if you want anything done give it to the busy man, and I say, "If you want anything done give it to the Relief Society." They never fail. I do not know how many of you have heard Brother Thomas E. McKay's little story about when he was at a stake welfare meeting recently. They were just going to close the meeting when he said, "Oh, president, we have not heard from the Relief Society and we sure ought to have a word from them." And so the stake president called the president of the Relief Society of the stake and she stood up and said: "Brother McKay, the Relief Society is behind the Priesthood one hundred per cent," and the president of the stake stood up and said: "Yes, President McKay, and the Priesthood is behind the Relief Society one hundred years." Now, if there ever comes a day when we can call the Priesthood of this Church the One Hundred Per Cent Club, it will be a great day for the Church I can assure you. When this program was first launched I think the sisters had some little misgivings because there were rumblings went out over the Church and there were some who had adverse criticisms to offer. When the sisters told me just now that I would have more than three minutes, I picked up the Bible and thought of the little experience when Jesus went into the