From the Shadow of a Dream to the Sunlight of Promise
Vesta P. Crawford (Prepared under the direction of Priscilla L. Evans, Member, Relief Society General Board)
[Continuity read by Sister Evans at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Thursday morning, September 30, 1948, at the general session held in recognition of the Building Fund achievement.]
You, as the women of this day and year, come not as builders of that which is new, but you come as interpreters of a dream, as heirs of a high destiny. You are of the house and of the lineage of eternal builders. You add your illumination of ideals and the practical strength of your hands to build the sunlit walls of an edifice for women who love light and truth—women who have demonstrated the strength and beauty of their sisterhood. You stand in the brief, bright moment of the present, looking with love and appreciation upon the brave builders of the past—looking with hope and steadfast vision to the future. You are that golden link in time, binding the historic days which have been to the widening years to come.
South Idaho Falls
Teton Mesa
Seattle
Idaho Falls
Granite
Rexburg
South Los Angeles
San Diego
North Idaho Falls
Uinta
Juarez
Wells
Emigration Utah
Florida
Temple View
(The first window is lit as the last woman stands. All remain standing.)
Inheritors of truth and faith
Who keep the precious dream
Shall build the house of beauty
And see the windows gleam.
The work of God's dominion
Is given to your hand,
And, from your home of service,
Shall reach to every land.
(The first group sits down. Two windows remain lit.)
(REPRESENTATIVES OF SECOND GROUP STAND AS LAST WOMAN STANDS THE SECOND WINDOW IS LIT. Women REMAIN STANDING.)
Bear River
Smithfield
Oneida
Grant
Parowan
Sugar House
Tooele
East Provo
Cedar
Salt Lake
San Juan
American Falls
Liberty
San Luis
Sevier
Oquirrh
(Page 92)
East Rigby
The vision that your mothers knew
Is like a mantle spread,
And their prophetic blessings
Shine glorious on your head.
As daughters of the promise
Your stately house shall be
A lasting symbol of your dream—
The home of charity!
(THE second group sits down. Three windows remain lit.)
(REPRESENTATIVES OF THIRD GROUP STAND AS LAST WOMAN STANDS THE THIRD WINDOW IS LIT. Women REMAIN STANDING.)
San Bernardino
Oahu
Long Beach
West Utah
Maricopa
West Pocatello
Nampa
Inglewood
San Francisco
Taylor
Ben Lomond
Palo Alto
Weiser
Wayne
East Mill Creek
Lehi
Ogden
(The fourth window is lit as the last woman stands.)
As Latter-day Saints we know that a spiritual creation precedes our coming to this earth, and in keeping with this lofty concept, the hopes and the dreams for our future accomplishments rise within our spirits before they find expression in temporal form upon the earth, and in turn our efforts as builders beautify and develop our personalities for an everlasting purpose.
There is no stone so strong
As the light in the builder's eyes,
And far beyond the walls of earth
The towers of the spirit rise!
(The third group sits down. Four windows remain lit.)
San Fernando
North Rexburg
Grantsville
Davis
Hillside
Mount Ogden
Blackfoot
East Cache
South Ogden
Cassia
Bonneville
Highland
Timpanogos
Palmyra
Burley
Hyrum
Morgan
(The fourth window is lit as the last woman stands.)
"This society shall rejoice." So spoke our Prophet and founder. We do rejoice. This is a day of heartfelt gratitude, for today many blessings have been made manifest; our hopes and our plans have matured and our dreams have come to pass. Today we have passed from the shadow of a dream to the sunlight of a promise.
(Fourth group sits down. Four windows remain lit.)
(The first group stands.)
North Sevier
South Summit
Lyman
Chicago
Pasadena
West Jordan
Snowflake
Portneuf
Phoenix
Minidoka
South Carolina
Reno
Provo
Franklin
Big Cottonwood
Rigby
Benson
(The fourth window is lit as the last woman stands.)
This building which we in our time shall erect shall be a monument not alone of steel and stone, but it shall stand as a watch in the night, as a symbol of the standard which we have lifted before the eyes of women everywhere, and as we use this building, always let us pray: "So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom."
(The first group sits down. Four windows remain lit.)
Five Windows REMAIN LIGHTED.) (Sixth Group STANDS.) Lethbridge Garfield Montpelier Panguitch San Joaquin Gridley Mount Jordan Saint Joseph Bear Lake Humboldt New York Young Cottonwood Kanab North Carbon Orem Star Valley (Sixth Window Is LitTep as Last Woman STANDS.) In years to come it shall be said that many willing hands erected this building and many generous spirits contributed to its beauty. That this monument was not built by the few, but by the many. Your daughters and their daughters shall say: "Our mothers builded well in the pattern and in the design of a people who look forward, and well they knew that 'too low they build who build beneath the stars.' " (Sixth Group Sirs Down. Sixth Window REMAIN LIGHTED) (SEVENTH Group STANDS.) Deseret Mount Logan Sharon Pocatello Bannock North Box Elder Southern Arizona Lake View Gunnison North Sanpete Pioneer Saint Johns Logan Emery East Jordan South Sanpete Alpine (SEVENTH Window Is LitTep as Last Woman STANDS.) More than a hundred years ago the Prophet received a command from God: "... Organize yourselves, prepare every needful thing and establish a house.... A house of faith. A house of learning.... A house of order." After this pattern the sisters have labored, and in this design shall our house be built. (SEVENTH Group Sirs Down AND SEVEN Windows REMAIN LIGHTED.) FROM THE SHADOW OF A DREAM TO THE SUNLIGHT OF PROMISE 95 (Eighth Group STANDS.) North Jordan Union Boise Malad Park North Davis Cache Mount Graham Ensign Alberta Idaho Portland Riverside Beaver Los Angeles Shelley South Salt Lake (Eighth Window Is LitTep as Last Woman STANDS.) When President Lorenzo Snow dedicated the Manti Temple, his words expressed the gratitude of a people who built with vision, with sacrifice, with magnificent purpose. He spoke of an edifice in all its parts. "its terraces, its shrubbery, with all its adornments and approaches. May they be the pathways of the just." He said, "May it stand and endure as a monument of the obedience and love of the people. That the recollection of their labors may be a source of pleasure to them and their children after them." These words of years ago re-echo to us now for, in very truth, the sisters do experience joy in "the recollection of their labors" in the erection of this their own home "built with vision, with sacrifice, with magnificent purpose." (Eighth Group Sirs Down anp EIGHT Windows Remain LitTEN.) (Ninth Group STANDS.) South Sevier Berkeley Nebo Kolob Uintah Saint George Denver Lost River Yellowstone Carbon Duchesne Moapa Zion Park Roosevelt Juab Moon Lake North Weber (Ninth Window Is LitTep as rHe Last Woman STANDS. ) Well we know that earthly structures may not forever outlast the vicissitudes of time, yet this we know, too, that the dreams, the hopes, and the labors of this sisterhood shall not have been in vain. The stature of each of you as individuals has been increased—the shadow of each has been lengthened. There is no power on the earth that can break the golden links of the united effort of this sisterhood which the Prophet Joseph blessed, giving to us a precious key—a key that will, for all time, open the door to our Relief Society home in the shadow of the temple. (Ninth Group Sirs Down anp Nine Windows Remain LitTEN.) (TENTH Group STANDS.) Nevada Summit Sacramento Oakland Raft River Wasatch Twin Falls Big Horn South Box Elder § Washington Farr West Moroni South Davis Weber Millard Woodruff Blaine Spokane Santaquin-Tintic (TENTH Window Is LitTep As THE Last Woman STANDS.) 96 "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 In generations far removed from us, our descendants will reverence this building, for it will have earned respect and will have taken on a great dignity. They will see in it the same beauty and symmetry that we see; but they will see, too, that which you and I will never see—an indescribable something age alone can impart. Ruskin calls it a "glory" and he says: "The greatest glory of a building is not in its stones or in its gold. Its glory is in its age and in that deep sense of voicefulness, of stern watching, of mysterious sympathy.... Which we feel in walls that have long been washed by the passing waves of humanity." (TENTH Group Sits AnD TEN Windows REMAIN LitTEN.) (REPRESENTATIVES OF THE Missions STAND.) Northern California Finnish South African North Central States Eastern States Western States Northwestern States Australian Samoan East Central States Central States Uruguayan Hawaiian Central Pacific Texas-Louisiana Southern States New Zealand Northern States Spanish-American Central States Palestine-Syrian California Canadian Tahitian Tongan Swedish Western Canadian New England Navajo-Zuni Mexican French Welcome to our sisters from the far-flung missions of the Church, from the distant parts of our own country, and from the remote places beyond the seas. In our ideals and in our purposes we are as one. We are as a unit in building a home from which service and inspiration shall extend to women in all parts of the earth. We are as one in seeking our Father's kingdom where the everlasting structures rise. You of the missions stand at the threshold—you open the shining door of the gospel and bid all seekers after truth to enter the spacious rooms of our Father's many mansions. It is you who have brought love and greetings and your treasures from far places to build this house. Let the door be lighted and may your devotion be to all of us forever a sign upon its threshold. (The Door Is LitTep.) As a lasting door to service— Now lighted by the many hands Who carry far the gospel's gleam, The shining portal stands! (Mission Group Sits Down.) To Zion's daughters long ago A mission was foretold, And we have brought our offerings here As prophesied of old. Eternal builders, now we come, Rejoicing to this place; From out the crested mountain lands And isles beyond the sea, In joy and gratitude we come, In faith and charity. FROM THE SHADOW OF A DREAM TO THE SUNLIGHT OF PROMISE 97 For in this hallowed valley Our stately house shall rise, With strength and love uplifted Beneath the desert skies. The sun shall gild its shining walls And beauty there abide; In welcome to the sisterhood Its doors shall open wide. Then let us come rejoicing— Our treasures now appear In blessings gleaned and gathered Throughout a glorious year! (Counselor Sharp's Address. THE PINNACLE Is LitTep As SHE ANNOUNCES THE Goat REACHED.) 'Wearing a Face Into a Mother's"' Caroline Eyring Miner TODAY as the college graduating class filed past the audience, a hand waved frantically in an attempt to attract one of the graduates. It was a mother's work-blunted hand, and as I looked at her more closely, her withered face beaming with pride and happiness, I suddenly knew what Gulbransen meant when he used in one of his books the striking phrase, "wearing a face into a mother's." How does a mother's face get the mother-look of love and pride, and