Women Against Polio
Elaine Whitelaw Director of Women's Activities National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis
At summer's widespread epidemics of infantile paralysis emphasized anew the importance of women in all aspects of polio work. Women always have been leaders in the fight against this disease. Naturally this would be so, since the vast majority of those hit by polio are children, and nothing comes closer to a woman's heart than the well-being of her children—indeed, of all children. But their activities today go further than sympathy and interest. Women are serving in the ranks of those caring for patients, seeking a preventive or cure, organizing communities to meet the needs of epidemic emergencies, and disseminating factual information about infantile paralysis to prevent fear itself from becoming epidemic.
Nothing stood out more clearly during 1948, when at least 30,000 new cases of polio were reported for the United States, than the growing influence of women in this work.... Every successful volunteer movement owes a substantial part of its development to the tireless energy and enthusiasm of its unpaid women workers. And 1948 proved this to a high degree.
More than 12,000 Polio Emergency Volunteers had been trained by them to assist professionals in the bedside care of polio patients in hospitals and homes. Many went into polio wards in California, Nebraska, and Texas to help. At Camp Sutton, Monroe, N.C., fifty PEVs did all of the non-professional work, so that physical therapists there could devote all their time to muscle training and testing.
One of the most serious problems after an epidemic is the follow-up care of patients. Women will play a large part in solving this in North Carolina, for they have arranged to transport patients to hospital outpatient departments and travelling orthopedic clinics run by the State's Crippled Children's Service for regular check-ups and treatments.
Many of the country's "forgotten" polio cases of years past already have been given new chances for useful lives—through the efforts of women volunteers who have systematically sought them out for check-ups. Credit for increased knowledge of facts about polio and a consequent decrease in panic, so noticeable in 1948, can be placed largely at the door of women's clubs and organizations which have made the public education program of the National Foundation part of the fabric of their health and welfare activities.
Women have been outstanding, too, in the National Foundation's research and professional education programs. When Dr. Isabel M. Morgan of Johns Hopkins University reported last July at the First International Poliomyelitis Conference in New York on the successful immunization of monkeys against polio, she brought pride to women everywhere. Mrs. Morgan's work, with that of her colleagues, Drs. Howe and Bodian, has shed light on the role of antibodies in protection against the polio virus.
While no preventive vaccine can be produced for trials in human beings until all types of polio viruses have been found, classified, and characterized—a project scheduled for the next year's work by several National Foundation supported laboratories— it is believed the Johns Hopkins experiments have provided necessary tools for an ultimate answer to protection of man from attacks of this disease.
Of the dozen fields in which fellowships and _ scholarships have been awarded with March of Dimes funds, two-thirds have included women workers. The fight against infantile paralysis is a joint activity of both women and men. We face three factors that make the 1949 March of Dimes a crucial undertaking: 1. There are more polio patients than ever before. Some of the increase in recent years' totals of reported cases may be due to greater knowledge of polio, prompter hospitalization and better care reporting. Whatever the reason, the rise in actual cases requiring assistance is real. 2. The cost of polio care has risen. Additional professional experts are required for modern care. Medical teams are developing, including, besides the physician and the nurse, the pediatrician, orthopedist, physical therapist, medical social worker, and psychological consultant. More complete service to patients is possible. 3. The dollar does not go as far as it used to. Hospital costs have risen 10 to 12% since 1947, while the 1948 March of Dimes drive raised less than 4% more than in 1947. March of Dimes money cannot buy as much service, food, supplies, and equipment as in the past. To do the best job of taking care of polio patients, without slowing the now promising search for a solution to the disease or interfering with the training of urgently-needed hospital specialists and research workers, men and women—together—must make the 1949 March of Dimes the most successful in twelve years. The conquest of polio, lying somewhere in the years ahead, can only be achieved by such determined and energetic partnership.
— Winter Pear Dorothy J. Roberts
What loveliness was felled with this brave tree
To leave returning robins fugitive;
What grace crashed earthward, what lost melody
From branches where a meadow lark would sieve
Through a silver throat, the fountain of his song.
Upon these boughs each season's beauty lay,
In slumber pale, but straight of trunk and strong;
Ephemeral in spring's samite array,
Here summer lacked no leaf to cool her shade,
And autumn burned a riotous color chart.
When, after its bright zenith, leaves were grayed,
Still amber and vermilion lit the heart,
Seeing the winter fruit no limb had lost,
Awaiting final favor from the frost.
Joanna Margery S. Stewart
Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to care for and support. Courageously, she takes inventory of her resources—a home, poorly furnished and not paid for, and $1.19 in cash.
ONE knocked at the S front door. The children, like a covey of quail, went with her to answer it. It was the neighbor who had built the fire for his children. He was carrying a stuffed flour sack, which he swung down from his shoulders.
"It's navy beans. Got a cousin who brought me down a couple of sacks of 'em. He grows 'em. Thought you could use 'em, maybe."
Joanna smiled at his flushed, young face.
"Thank you. I surely could." He went ahead of her to the kitchen.
"Tell me where to put 'em. Don't want to mess your clean house. Behind the stove do?"
Joanna nodded. She moved a chair to make room. He cleared his throat. He was young and ruggedly built. Color tan up into his neck.
"Anything I can do, Mis' Niels?"
Joanna shook her head.
"You're right kind to ask, though."
When he had gone the children climbed back in their places and resumed their meal. Penny stared at the sack.
"I guess we'll get a thousand suppers out of it."
David rubbed his stomach.
"Boston-baked, with molasses... That's what Daddy liked."
Penny buttered her bread.
"Daddy said nobody could make Boston-baked like Mommy. Daddy said she was the best cook in the world."
Joanna, standing by the stove, lifted her head. There was a sudden burning in her breast, a roaring in her ears, a breathless reaching for a spar.
"Say that again, Penny. What your Daddy said... About my cooking."
Penny nodded her head vigorously.
"He wasn't just kidding either. Every time you make Boston-baked the whole neighborhood walks by just to smell the delicious smell. Mrs. Smith says so. She told me."
Hope leaped like flame in Joanna. She opened the lid of the range and poured more coal into it. She opened the oven door and let the delicious heat surge into the kitchen.
Michael's head was nodding. She went to her bedroom and brought out the rocker, sat in it, and held Michael against her. This was the hour David had loved. He had held them cradled in his laughter and his love.
She searched her mind, but no story was hidden there. She reached out her arm and Sally cuddled against her. Joanna asked haltingly,
"Would you... Like to hear about when I was a little girl?"
They shouted their delight. She told the stories carefully, knowing she had no magic of words to make the brooks and the orchards real.
She rose ered Michael more closely, and went to the kitchen. Her hands seemed sudden six she opened the oven door to take out the beans. She put them in a pan. Her Town bread sells were shaken; it seemed suddenly six she opened the oven door to pour beans into the pan with whole loves, into the oven with all her strength. Sorted the cans that would do for Boston baked. Poured water over them. She looked at the sack of beans.
Goshen declared in the ice box and cupboards, Salt and mustard, everything she took reluctantly.
"Why, hello, Mis' Smith," she said.
"Was the alarm clock from you? Just trying out an old recipe."
Relief Society Magazine—February 1949
Bigail Smith was short and feather-pillow round. She had beautiful white hair that gave her an air of aristocracy, bringing to Joanna's mind the remembrance of powdered wigs and curtsies and billowing skirts. Her eyes were a bright sparkling brown, her skin was lined, but Joanna loved to look at her, finding her beautiful.
Abigail Smith was puffing.
"I came through the back way, leaning under that fence always gets me. But I couldn't hold back any longer. I been watching you since crack o' dawn."
She eyed the oven door.
"What were you puttin' in that oven?" "Beans," Joanna said, laughter a pale ghost in her voice, as she watched her visitor's astonished eyes go from covered dish to cake pan, to half-eaten pie. "It's not for us. Folks brought us enough to last the week." Abigail Smith unwrapped her hands from her apron and came to stand before the range. ""Then who for? What you making a batch o beans that size for?" Joanna measured oatmeal into the boiling water. She avoided her neighbor's eye. "I had a thought... Maybe I could sell them. Folks say they never tasted Boston-baked like mine." "You're the best cook in this ward!" Abigail averred, "Everybody's crazy about your cooking." "Tt's all I know," Joanna said. "Tt it just has to work." Abigail opened the oven door and sniffed appreciatively. "Well, maybe you can do it. How do you plan to go about it?" Joanna, setting the table, stumbled out her ideas.
Abigail shook her head. "Maybe you can do it. But, this depression, nobody's making out. Maybe you should better have saved your beans." "T've got to try it," Joanna cried. "T just can't sit and do nothing." "You can go on relief, like the rest of us." "No." Joanna's mouth set stubbornly. "No." Abigail rolled her hands in her apron. "Well, maybe if I had children, I'd feel like you do. Children make a difference." After a moment's silence, she added: "I'm right proud of you. Leastways you'll go down fighting."
Joanna smiled crookedly. "But you think I'll go down." Abigail turned to the door. "Listen, I have to go now. Henry will be getting up in a minute, but there's no call for you to drag things around in little David's wagon. I'll drive you around in that old Model T of ours. You'll be able to carry more."
Joanna's face flushed in gratitude. "That's nice, right nice of you." Her hand on the door, Abigail paused. "Why don't you make up a batch of your good bread? I'll bake it in my oven. It's got heat in it going to waste. People ought to like that bread of yours."
Joanna stirred the oatmeal impatiently. "Tl do that." "You just come any time if I get done with my work, I'll come over and help. What do you plan to carry the beans in?" Joanna looked wildly about the kitchen. "I never thought of that." Abigail's smile was smug. "T thought of something myself, just standing here. I thought, now why not?"
"Smarter than a lot of folks give me credit for," Abigail said. Door slammed. Placenta back. Dren stumbled out, They hunched around the warmth of their own fires and whimpered like wet kittens. They looked at her through tear-filled eyes. "Hot cakes!" She tumpeted the word, forcing triumph into it. "Hot. Cakes." She tied a bow around the neck of a bottle. "Right cute," Abigail said. "It's the effect brought delight to Abigail's face. "Now! Will you look at that? They look smart as paint."
Joanna ran to the bedroom, flung off the faded pink gingham and reached for the navy blue. She pulled on stockings, slipped into her good shoes, and stared at herself in the mirror. Her hair! She brushed it behind her ears and forced the short ends into a roll. She stared at herself. Her eyes looked too large and brilliant and anxious. Her mouth was pale. She fumbled for a lipstick, applied it hastily, and rushed back to the kitchen.
She called Michael and Sally, got them in and out of the bathroom, and then, with Abigail's help, carried the basket to the back seat of the car. The fear within her grew larger with every block that brought them nearer to town. All right, she thought, I'm afraid. But I can't let that stop me. I can't just quit with all the food I've made. I've got to go ahead with it. I've got to try. What more can folks do than say "no?" I've been said "no," lots of times.
She looked back at Michael and Sally jolting in the back seat, babbling their delight over the ride and the sights. They have no one but me. It just has to go. But when at last Abigail found a parking place before the building that housed the railroad office, Joanna could hardly force her legs out of the car.
Abigail was nervous, too. "Now don't feel bad if they don't buy. I'll take good care of the youngsters." Joanna nodded. She lifted jars of beans, loaves of brown and white bread into a picnic basket that already held the paper plates and napkins and spoons that had taken ninety cents of her small hoard. She covered them all with a white linen napkin, and straightened and looked at Abigail.
"I'll make out," she said through dry lips. "I'll make out fine." "It's just five minutes to twelve. You'll catch them at a good time." Joanna crossed the sidewalk to the door. The prayer within her had so loud a cry that she wondered that the passersby did not pause to hear: please help me. You know I can't do anything without you. You know I'm nothing but a farm girl, not brought up to do anything but cook and bake. You know about my children. Help me now, please."
(To be continued)
From "Cameron Johns"
Bind the continents together,
Bridge the rivers, span the skies—
Yet too deep for mortal daring
Is the measure of your eyes,
Wrest the secret of the ages
From the star, the sea, the stone;
One mystery lies beyond the solving—
Your heart that beats against my own.
Rosemary Beatrice Knowlton Ekman
Not the bitter word would I remember
After the lapse of years,
When life approaches bleak December
Bereft of healing tears,
But the words of love spoken
Burning with spirit flame,
Will weld a chain of trust unbroken
Until you call my name.
That you have
Fay Larlock Parr
Janie did not put the dress on scene. The season of power made her until the others had finished their own lighting, their laughter gave way to their makeup and went on. She felt the excitement of complete preparation. At the dress rehearsal she felt fulfillment. When it was over, yet she had worn a blue tayon print there was one more pleasure to be had as the boys had looked at her as if to say, come, quick, dance in the gymnasium. Use what we expected,"
Tonight Janie knew what she was to do. She was feverish with excitement as she placed the dress carefully in the zip. She slipped the billowy gandy over her head before she removed the makeup band from Miss Argan's friend T., who was conspicuously absent. At the beauty parlor had given her a final rinse and end H.
Now to Janie's question, "Cap didn't I form a sign for her halo? She 'ven know he was coming and is ace. Her yes were yes, her he excited; his lips the color of cherries as part tots started + to remove the stage as she had been ass, her hands pausing in midair, her small head high on her admire self again in the mirror. Slender neck, she was precise and after the sensation she had made startling 'ty, two boys who were tonight, she couldn't go to the dance to pull the curtain say, her first ness she wore the dress. It was eerily popping yes were all Janie's making for ancing, She could see needed hen the others said, "She herself floating like a transparent there was ecstasy in her smile The cloud, the white skirt with ebullient youths who had been pa. Its red dot billowing behind her, he was treading in their tented dinner jackets had blown back stopped still; the girls were Ff Idn't Miss Ardman ave her startle to speak, lance, an 'flyer who Was going John Rons exploded the silence, to be gq doctor? She didn't need the Advancing towards Janie, he looked at her dress tonight. Janie let her hands both her hands and said, "Oh, boy, slide to her sides Then quickly, as can I kiss you tonight)" If some one were acting for her, "Places"?" Called Miss Ardman, She moved part of her makeup € play had a t smooth pace "Nough from ' "IPS to make them hen Janie moved or spoke, or even look natural, a little from her cheeks raised her and she. St every care fully she wiped at the cading 110 Everyone in the gymnasium was looking at her anie was certain. She could hear th the girls as they passed by on the crowded floor, "She and John were g handsome The fiancé was a sight and John knew it and liked it tall, fair young man with glasses "Golly, Jane," he breathed into her ear, had a some what serious face, ear, holding her brighter, "I went to the kind of face a Sil saw in her out like a light when you came on teams, the stage tonight. I didn't know Involuntarily Janie stepped back. You were like this" "Miss Ardman was looking directly at her. She's angry," Janie thought The Janie 'in the dr as she stood there, afraid to smile mysteriously, "To her face. What happened next wasn't put you out," she said slowly, it real. It was some lowering her beaded lashes. Ing from a story and Janie Was in "No," insisted John. "That's only a story. Miss Ardman spoke to part of it. You're so different," the tall man beside her He nodded and sighed audibly. Ded and they came across the dance, his sigh was meant for Janie alone in the ney vanity. "You're so used to being around that you've never taken the trouble to arm be anyone who prefers herself, "She me swifter and John started to whirl. She held her head back as she had before 'THE Man smiled and bowed. "If Janie will do me the honor," he said, offering his hand for dance, John was surrounded by girls, they closed about him, twittering and calling like birds. Not for a second did they follow her, and Janie was left alone. Don't better swaggered amie to the floor as she called, "The head to claim her. She knew that next is mine, Remember," she had been hanging around the not going to ANY old dance)" - I Janie flung the wo Yen a glass slipper to see Member m IC ni Tds at her as she yanked off; the kitchen drawers, Magic light, she told "What's got into you in the last few days? Ever since that play you've been either sulking or pouting, and I don't understand". DURING the week following the "Can't you leave me alone?" Janie avoided Miss Ardman -demanded, her voice stowing man. 'At this time it had seemed shrill She rushed out of the house, "it was a smart thing to wear the dress Now she slammed the door behind her, wondering if it would be a smart thing to have done. After the youngest children were not left to bed, her father and mother had gone home. Th at Miss Ardman didn't mind Had she Not rushed over to intr. She wouldn't Stay long, Janie knew, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 see the decorations and spring dresses. She waited until they were safely gone before she put on her brown coat and walked aimlessly towards town. Stopping before the big house of red brick, she peered over the hedge into the living room. There was a side window with a lifted shade. Yes, it was Miss Ardman, still in her brown school dress. She had her hair down in a long bob, looking very young, not like a school teacher at all. She sat there, neither reading nor sewing. When Janie rang the doorbell, Miss Ardman came, her eyes red, as if she had been crying. "You didn't stay home from the dance because I spoiled things by wearing your dress?" Janie blurted out the words, her voice thick. When they were out she leaned against the door jamb, trembling with relief that she had said them. Miss Ardman pulled her inside the door. "No," she said. "That's not the reason, although when I first saw you come into the dance, I felt like doing just that." She began to cry. "I didn't mean to break my promise," she said between sobs. "I felt like I had to wear that dress to the dance or I would die. I guess there's no use telling you how sorry and ashamed I am." "That's the best thing you can do," Miss Ardman told her, wiping Janie's eyes and nose with her own handkerchief. She drew Janie into the living room and sat beside her on the couch. The tension of the past week ebbed from Janie. "When I looked out there and saw you," she confessed, "I knew what a low thing I had done. You could have shamed me there before everyone and made me hate myself and you. But you didn't. You acted as if you were proud I'd worn your dress." "I had a lot of confidence in you, Jamie. I knew you would tell me about it." The coldness and hardness were gone from Janie's body, leaving it light and relaxed. Her tears came again, not the wrenching sobs, but easy ones. "Don't stop me," she protested. "I'm so happy." She felt clean and good.
"I wanted to come to you but I didn't have the courage." "You came at the right time," her teacher told her. "I was in a low state myself. 'This afternoon when I came home to curl my hair and rest, I got a telephone call from Robert's landlady. She said he had the flu, but that he had been planning to come right up until this afternoon when she put him to bed.' "She smiled ruefully at Janie. "For awhile I almost thought he wasn't ill. I was so disappointed." The barrier between student and teacher was gone. "Why," Janie cried, shocked into speech, "teachers are human, just like anyone else!" She laughed with Miss Ardman. Clasping her hands over her knees, she confided, "I wanted to go to this dance so bad my skin hurt. But I wasn't going with Don Betger and no one else asked me." Avoiding Miss Ardman's surprised look, she said, "After I wore the dress I knew I could never go with him again." "Then the week of misery was worth it," Miss Ardman said gently. "You can do better things than go with Don." THE DRESS Janie's stifled yearnings and resentments stirred within her. "I want to do better things, but I don't know how." She looked down at her hands while Miss Ardman stared at the carpet. Suddenly she jumped up, facing Janie. "There's just one thing for you to do," she said with determination. Everything had been hopeless for so long, Janie felt none of her teacher's enthusiasm. "What is it?" she asked, not moving. Miss Ardman became a school teacher again. "Ordinarily," she said in her clear, precise voice, "I don't think that a college education is the sum total of life. People can be just as happy, just as useful—that is, some people. But for you, Janie, I think it is the quickest and best way." Janie slumped against the sofa. "T've got about as much chance of going to college as you have of being queen of England," she said. Miss Ardman's eyes were bright with zeal. She sat by Janie's side, her voice as sharp as a new blade. "I'd like to know why you can't go to college. No," she commanded, lifting her hand. "Don't tell me! I know all the answers you have and there isn't one that's valid! All I want to know is, does it mean enough to you to go?" "Of course I want to go, but how can a girl like me do it?" "That's the whole trouble, a girl like you!" Miss Ardman snapped off each word and thrust it scornfully at Janie. "What's wrong with a girl like you? You feel sorry for yourself. It isn't because you are poor. It's because you think you are. That's what's holding you back! Don't you know, Janie," she ejaculated, "poverty is no disgrace! It's just an inconvenience. All we have to do is get rid of the inconvenience." "I know," Janie acknowledged. "T ought to get away from Ronsville long enough to show people I can do something. Here I'm just Janie Carlson in an old brown coat." "That's why college is the best way for you. It will polish those rough edges and open the way to a new life—for you and for your family." Miss Ardman was on her feet now, pulling Janie with her. "It's easy, really," she said as they went upstairs. Inside her room she pulled out last year's blue linen dress. Obediently Janie put it on and sat in front of the mirror while Miss Ardman arranged her hair. "Now smile," Miss Ardman said, "as if you expected people to like you." "Could I be like that always?" Janie asked as the two girls watched her face in the mirror. Miss Ardman had an answer. "I have friends who would be downright glad to have you live with them. You could help with the dishes and stay with the children when necessary. On Saturdays and Sundays they would pay you extra to give you spending money. I'll write tomorrow, but I know we can call it settled." "There's tuition and books," Janie reminded her. "Let me think," Miss Ardman replied, tightening her lips. "I believe we can manage that too. There are scholarships to help girls like you. If we go about it the right way, I'm sure we can get one. All you need now is money for clothes." She gave Janie's cheek a triumphant pat. "I do baby sitting, but it doesn't pay much in Ronsville. People have too many relatives." "A pretty girl like you," Miss Ardman deliberated, a critical look in her eyes, "shouldn't have trouble getting higher paid work." She gave Janie a thorough inspection from her curling bob to her pumps with the run-over heels. Her mouth still tight, she went into her closet again and emerged with a pair of saddle leather sandals, almost new and a fleecy white jacket, slightly worn at the cuffs, but personable. "Now we'll go to the drugstore," She decided. "Ernie Todd owes me something for all the money I've spent there when I've been lonely for home. He told me he was going to put a new girl at the fountain as soon as the tourist