Joseph Smith By James L. Barker II Approval of Saints obtained in meetings for worship. MONSIGNOR HUNT asks: "Is silence to be interpreted as approval or must there be an explicit and positive vote? If so, must there be official provisions for obtaining this vote? These are very important questions. Professor Barker does not attempt to answer them." In the earliest times, any meeting for worship could be made "the official provision" as in the L. D. S. Church today 'for obtaining this vote." As already seen, an annual council and in some cases a semi-annual council of the churches depending on the bishop, was held. It was at one of these councils that Private de Lambese was deposed. The council furnished the official' provision for obtaining this vote. The bishops could "be deposed by them (the councils)." In the Council of Jerusalem '"'the multitude" took part. The date at which the lay element was excluded from the councils cannot be fixed, nor perhaps even, a date be given, when the presbyters were no longer permitted to vote. Neither can an exact date be fixed for the doing away with the order of the true Church" and for the creation of a professional priesthood often chosen and its decisions determined by civil rulers. Changes in the manner of the selection of officials vital. Were these changes of no importance? Ireneus frequently asserts that "all the faithful have the rank of priests (elders)." Harnack, History of Dogma, vol. II, p. 78. Is the fact which Monsignor Hunt admits, namely, that God had nothing to do with the choosing of his priesthood of no importance? Then why, throughout the New Testament is the fact stressed that God did choose his priesthood, and that no man "taketh this honor unto himself?" In the Primitive Church, the Lord not only chose, but directed His priesthood. Not only did the Lord choose his priesthood in the true Church, but He directed their efforts. Though He had personally instructed the Twelve, both before and after His resurrection, He nevertheless commanded that they were not to teach until they had been "endued with power from on high." And before beginning their ministry, they waited for the outpouring of the Holy Ghost on the day of Pentecost. Nothing is more remarkable than the manner in which the Lord directed Paul at every step in his ministry: "And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him saying, Come over unto Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us forth to preach the gospel unto them (Acts 16:9-10)." "Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ (Acts 18:5)." "And now when they had gone through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia, After they were come to Mysia, they assayed to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not (Acts 16:6, 7)." Thus Paul, of whom the "'Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabus and Saul (Paul) for the work whereunto I have called them," was not only guided by the Spirit in proclaiming the truth, but was constantly directed by the Spirit as to when, where, and to whom he should testify of Jesus. The Savior prescribed both the method of choosing and ordaining the officers of the Church. Monsignor Hunt is "quite ready to concede that any practice in the early Church which was essential to the administration of the Christian religion discloses the intentions of Christ." Was the choice by the Lord of His own servants essential? I do not dispute Monsignor Hunt's statement that "specific directions" were left by Christ for giving authority to Church officials. But where are they to be found? Is Monsignor Hunt accepting them as a fact because of a practice in the early Church? If he is, then does not the practice of ascertaining the will of the people when installing bishops in the early Church imply that Christ gave specific directions also in that regard? In support of his statement that Christ left specific directions for "the giving of authority to Church officials' but not for "electing Church officials," and that the manner of granting power to bishops, "being prescribed by Christ, was not subject to change,' Monsignor Hunt affirms "that the Apostles and their successors only could give power to succeeding bishops." Had Monsignor Hunt stated that Christ had given specific directions for the election of Church officials, it would have been necessary to state what that method was and if, and why, the Church had deviated from it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monsignor Hunt has stated what he considers the agency prescribed by Christ for the granting of authority to bishops, namely "the Apostles and their successors only could give power to succeeding bishops," and "Even priests could not ordain other priests, to say nothing of bishops." Nevertheless, he offers no historical data in support of this statement. Has 'the granting of authority" to bishops also been "subject to change?" In the early Church not only bishops, but elders also could ordain elders. In Alexandria, the priests ordained their bishop. How does Monsignor Hunt reconcile his affirmation that "Even priests could not ordain other priests, to say nothing of bishops' with the following: 'Many indications * * cause us to suppose * * * that the elders had towards the period of which the 'Didache' speaks 'the powers of the order, of the bishops, for example that of ordaining priests, without having their 'powers of jurisdiction';'" or with this: "It is probable that the episcopal colleges of these very ancient times counted for a little more in comparison with their presidents than our canons today with their bishop. According to certain recollections somewhat confused which tradition has transmitted to us, they retained for a considerable time the power of ordination, actually characteristic of the episcopal dignity. The priests of Alexandria provided for the replacement of their defunct bishop, not only by electing, but by ordaining his successor (italics mine). This state of affairs went back without doubt to a time when Egypt had no other church than that of Alexandria. It would not be astonishing if the same situation had produced the same consequences at Antioch, at Rome, at Lyons, or wherever local churches had an extended jurisdiction." Not only does Monsignor Hunt offer no evidence in support of his assertions that Christ left 'specific directions" for the "giving of authority" to Church officials, but none for the manner of electing them, and that "He provided that the Apostles and their successors only could give power to succeeding bishops," but the eminent Catholic authorities just quoted, disagree with Monsignor Hunt as to the historical fact. Contrary to Monsignor Hunt's affirmations that "the Church knew of no method of granting power to bishops other than the sacrament of Holy Orders, in which the bishop was the minister. Even priests could not ordain other bishops, to say nothing of bishops,'. Mourret records the fact that priests had the power of ordaining priests and Duchesne notes the fact that priests did ordain a bishop in the church at Alexandria and he assumes that priests may have ordained bishops elsewhere. Consequently Monsignor Hunt's argument is perhaps based on an incorrect statement of fact. An apostle was a general officer; a bishop, a local officer. Monsignor Hunt refers sometimes to Paul as a bishop. Paul himself says, I Cor. 15:7-10: "For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain but I labored more abundantly than they all; yet not I, but the grace of God which was in me." Paul calls himself an apostle, and in the New Testament, he is nowhere called a bishop. The apostles, including Paul, had universal jurisdiction, but the bishop was limited in the Primitive Church, as in the latter-day Church, to the individual Church over which he presided. An apostle was a general officer; a bishop, a local officer. The bishops were not the successors of the Apostles. Monsignor Hunt would not be justified in calling Paul a bishop even if he were right in saying: "And the successors of the Apostles were bishops. They were chosen one by one (italics mine) as the Apostles died." Were the bishops the successors of the apostles? What historical evidence has Monsignor Hunt for his statement that "They (the bishops) were chosen one by one as the Apostles died?" The number of the Twelve apostles was limited to twelve. Why more than twelve bishops, if they were chosen "one by one" as the apostles died? Monsignor Hunt: "The first (bishop) to be chosen was St. Matthias to take the place of Judas. Then follow the others who one by one were made bishops." Even though there are no apostles in the Catholic Church today, there is no evidence for believing this statement to be true. Matthias was added to the eleven, "and he was numbered with the eleven apostles." of those having universal jurisdiction as was Paul. He was not a bishop, and even for one believing that the bishops succeeded to the authority of the apostles, he was an apostle and not a bishop. Speaking of the officers of the Church during the first three centuries," Funk says: "The latter offices [bishops, presbyters, and deacons] were destined to remain, whereas the former [apostles, evangelists, prophets and doctors] disappeared with the end of the apostolic age (such being the case with the evangelists) or, like those of the 'prophets' and 'doctors' were merged in the permanent offices of bishop and presbyter." In the Primitive Church the two offices were distinct; an apostle was a general officer, and a bishop a local officer. As for Monsignor Hunt's statement: "They (the bishops) were chosen one by one as the Apostles died," he himself cites the appointment of two bishops by Paul. The apostles appointed bishops as needed to preside over the local churches. "According to Tertullian, writing c. 199, the Roman Church claimed In the Vulgate: "et annumeratus est cum undecim apostolis." Funk, Manual of Church History, Vol. 1, p. 52. He was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that Clement was ordained by St. Peter (De Praescript. Xxxii)."" Shotwell and Loomis cite the following quotation from Rufinus (c. 395), Praefatio ad Recognitiones: "Linus and Cletus were, no doubt, bishops in the city of Rome before Clement but that was during Peter's life time; that is, they performed the episcopal duties while he filled the office of the apostolate (italics mine). He is known to have done the same at Caesarea, for there, although he was himself on the spot, yet he had with him Zacchaeus, whom he had ordained as bishop." As to the relationship of a bishop to an apostle, note Mourret," "Without attaching himself particularly to any (bishop's) seat, John exercises over all of them that universal jurisdiction conferred by the Savior on his apostles and which was not to be extinguished except with the last one among them." 'This same John outlived the first three bishops of Rome, and up to the time of his death, Mourret says he exercised over all bishops "that universal jurisdiction conferred by the Savior on his apostles." Is not the pope bishop of Rome? Then, if the bishops are not apostles or the "successors" of the apostles, why does the papal list or the list of the bishops of Rome begin with Peter? Because in the early Church "there soon arose a tradition that the apostles themselves had appointed bishops in several communities, and hence came the custom of drawing up episcopal lists in Asia, in Rome, in Lyons. But it was not before the year 220 that apostles themselves were set down in these lists as bishops of the. Community." (Italics mine).' And according to Shotwell and Loomis,' "It is probably not much before 354 that Peter himself was given the title of bishop and set definitely in the position of head of the episcopal line." If this late inclusion of apostles at the head of the lists of bishops is of any value as proof, it is entirely negative. Eusebius' (267-340) distinguishes clearly betwen the bishops of Rome and the apostles: "Soter, the bishop of the church of Rome, ended his life in the eighth year of his rule. To him succeeded Eleutherus, the twelfth from the apostles. * * '" Eusebius' quotes Clement of Rome as follows: "For after the death of the tyrant he (John the Apostle) passed from the island of Patmos to Ephesus, and used also to go * * * to the neighboring districts of the heathen, in some places to appoint bishops, in others to reconcile whole churches, and in others to ordain some one of those pointed out by the Spirit." Here again, an apostle, a general officer of the Church, is seen as quite distinct from the local and subordinate officers, the bishops. At this time Clement "was still governing the Romans and he, also, occupied the third place in the list of bishops in Rome after Paul and Peter. * * * John, at once Apostle and Evangelist, still remained alive in Asia and administered the churches there, for after the death of Domitian, he had returned from his banishment on the island.'"" Was John the Apostle subject to the jurisdiction of Clement of Rome? If not, there is every reason for believing that Clement of Rome (the third Pope in the Papal lists) occupied the same position of subordination in regard to John as the bishops John was appointing in Asia. As to the "one by one" above, it is not likely, means of communication being as poor as they were, that any apostle knew of the appointments of bishops by the other apostles until long after they had been made. The action of the people is limited to acceptance or rejection, approval or disapproval. Monsignor Hunt, as a secondary thesis, presumably to be found in the article in the Relief Society Magazine, summarizes the article to the effect that: "Teaching authority in the Church rests finally with the people, who may check, correct, and change the doctrinal definitions of their officials." There is nothing in the article to justify the terms "check, correct, and change.' The people's action was and is limited to rejection or acceptance, approval or disapproval. The article says p. 594: "When the Apostles, by thought and discussion, had arrived at a decision, they were entitled to the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, confirming or disapproving their conclusions, and the 'multitude' (the people) was entitled to the same inspiration by the same Spirit in voting their approval or disapproval, and all were in full possession of freedom of the will as to whether they would act in harmony with the will of God, as revealed by the Holy Ghost." There is no question here of the people "checking, correcting, or changing" "the will of God as revealed by the Holy Ghost." The Holy Ghost was promised to the people. However, the Holy Ghost was promised to the people and they were not dependent on Peter's and the other Apostles' word nor on the claims of an infallible church for a knowledge of the truth: "Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said,... And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him." How could the Holy Ghost be a "witness" unto all "them who obey" God if, as Monsignor Hunt affirms, the Holy Ghost "was not promised to the people'"'? But the Holy Ghost was promised to the people. The promise is contained in Acts II:38, 39: "... And ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. For the promise is unto you and unto your children, and unto all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call"'" The people are promised and receive "the gift of the Holy Ghost" today in the true Church. If, as asserted by Monsignor Hunt, the Holy Ghost was not promised to the people, how does he account for the reference to it in the *Acts 5:29 and 32, "In the Vulgate: "Respondens autem Petrus, et apostol diserunt:... Et nos sumus testes horum verborum; et Spiritus sanctus, quam dedit Deus omnibus obedientibus sibi."' "In the Vulgate: "... Et accipietis donum Spiritus sancti. Vobis enim est repromissio, et filiis vestris, et omnibus que longe sunt, quoscumque advocaverit Dominus Deus noster." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE earliest known canon of the mass as established by Dom Paul Cagin, a religious benedict of Solesme, and accepted by Mourret?" Cagin concludes that the original document is Greek, "of which the manuscript of Verona presents a Latin translation." I quote: "And we ask that you send your Holy Spirit on the oblation of the Holy Church, that associating them all in one, you give to all the saints who receive (it) a fulness of the Holy Spirit for the confirmation of the faith in the truth....." Has this prayer any meaning, if the Holy Ghost "was not promised to the people'? Why the prayer for the reception of "a fulness of the Holy Spirit?' A similar petition for the reception of the Gift of the Holy Ghost in the L. D. S. Sacramental prayers is further evidence that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. In view of the fact that the Holy Ghost ("whom God hath given to them that obey him" and whom all —not just the clergy—should receive, "For the promise is unto you and unto your children, and unto all that are afar off, even as many as our Lord shall call") was His "witness of these things," it is difficult to see what justification Monsignor Hunt finds for this statement: "He (Mr. Barker) would say that the Holy Ghost guides the people.... The difficulty with that opinion is that the Holy Ghost was promised to the Apostles and their successors; it was not promised to the people." "Et petimus ut mittas Spiritum tuum Sanctum in oblationem sanctae Ecclesiae; in unum congregans, des omnibus, qui percipiunt, sanctis, in repletionem Spiritus Sancti, ad confirmationem fidei in veritate, ut te laudemus et glorificemus per puerum tuum Jesus Christum."... Mourret, Histoire Generale de l'Eglise, appendice, vol, 1, JOSEPH SMITH The people, not just the Apostles and their "successors" received the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost was not only promised to all who should obey; but the people, not just the apostles, likewise received the Holy Ghost. The promise and the gift of the Holy Ghost was characteristic of the Gospel of Jesus as distinct from the baptism of John: "Paul having passed through the upper coasts, came to Ephesus; and finding certain disciples, He said unto them, Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost. And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they said, unto John's baptism. Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people, that they should believe on him who should come after him, that is on Christ Jesus. When they heard this they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Ghost came on them; and they spake with tongues and prophesied. And all the men were about twelve."" Does Monsignor Hunt contend that those who were rebaptized by Paul were -either the apostles or their '"successors" since he alleges "that the Holy Ghost was promised to the Apostles and their successors; it was not promised to the people"? And again how does Monsignor Hunt explain the following, if the "Apostles and. Their successors" alone were to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost? "And they chose Stephen [a man not yet a deacon] Acts 19:1-7. 401 full of faith and the Holy Ghost," (Acts 6:5), or this: "Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John: Who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost: (For as yet he was fallen upon none of them; only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.) Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost." (Acts 8:14-17). The "disciples" who said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go to Jerusalem (Acts 21:4) were not apostles, much less their "successors." Neither was the Prophet Agabus who "took Paul's girdle, and bound his own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, etc." (Acts 21:8). And Mourret," speaking of the prophets mentioned in Acts 13:1 and in 1 Cor. 14, says, "they spoke under the immediate influence of the Holy Spirit."" We thus see that the Holy Ghost was not only promised to all, "even as many as our Lord shall call," but that it was received by the people and not just by the Apostles and "their successors." Enjoying the gift of the Holy Ghost, "the multitude" was entitled to the inspiration of the Spirit in voting their approval. "And Apostles and people were in full possession of freedom of the will as to whether they would act in harmony with the will of God, as revealed by the Holy Ghost.' (To be continued) "Histoire Generale de l'Eglise, vol. 1, p. &8. "November Relief Soctety Magazine, 19390.