(To be continued) A Labor of Love By Arthur W. Richardson ERE in the Lynn Massachusetts Branch of the Relief Society we are fortunate in having as a member one who has done more than anyone else in this state towards making the lot of the crippled child more bearable. In the "Boston Post" of February 9, 1930, under the caption of "Crippled Children Bill Result of Mother Love," was a large photo of Mrs. Gertrude E. Fogg and her daughter, Geraldine. Quoting from the article which followed we read, "Rather dramatic was the appearance before a legislative committee the past week of Mrs. Gertrude Fogg, in behalf of a bill to provide teaching of crippled children at home. "For back of the woman's appeal was the instinct of mother love for offspring. "Her daughter, Geraldine, 13, has been crippled from infancy from an attack of infantile paralysis. Getting her into school was a problem. In the primary grades Geraldine went to school in a kiddie kar under the protection of some playmate in the neighborhood. "She passed into the Junior High school but her condition, in the opinion of the school principal, made it advisable to keep the girl at home. The principal was afraid that she would be injured falling down the steep stone stairs. "Since September Geraldine has had to remain at home, dependent upon her mother and friends for the advancement of her education. "Mrs. Fogg interested Representative Fred Hutchinson of Lynn in the problem which had its counterpart in every city and town of the state, and a bill was filed. The bill provided that. Each city and town employ a teacher whose duty it would be to call at the homes of crippled children and teach them. "The bill was reported favorably. Mrs. Fogg appeared before the committee and recited Geraldine's case. "She had the sympathy of everyone, including Lynn school authorities and those of the state. "The bill is now in the hands of Ways and Means and seems assured of success. ""I think Geraldine should have the chance given to every other child,' said Mrs. Fogg. 'It seemed to me that her handicap should make it more urgent that she be given every chance to finish her education under home influence. She  has bravely gone on and to be denied common privileges would only accentuate her difficulty. That is why I strove so hard to make everyone see it as I see it.' " Though the way seemed dark at times, the flaming torch in the hands of the indomitable Sister Fogg, led to victory. In a local edition a letter from Payson Smith, Commissioner of Education for our state, to Representative Hutchinson is quoted in part as follows: "House Bill Number 497, introduced by you in the 1930 session of the legislature resulted in Chapter 368 of the Acts of 1930. The result has been that many children so crippled that they could not attend school have educational advantages. During the past year 53 cities and towns have afforded instruction to 409 crippled children in their homes. A LABOR OF LOVE "In my opinion this was a most constructive piece of legislation." Not long ago Mrs. Fogg received a letter from Mr. Payson Smith in which he warmly commended her. He said, "I do recall with distinct satisfaction your interest in the which 407provided the unfortunate crippled children with an opportunity to obtain education in their homes was one of the finest pieces of legislation ever enacted. Greater than all other powers is that of mother love. It ever leads GERTRUDE E. FOGG enactment of this law which promises to be of so great benefit." Each year these crippled children have a banquet and an exhibition. Superintendent Gruver, of Lynn, at one of these affairs expressed the opinion that the legislative action to higher and better conditions. This is but another example of the constructive channeis into which that love may be turned. A great opportunity may be knocking at your door.