Tribute to Annie C. Hindley a "Presentation" meeting was held in the Library Building of American Fork. An oil painting depicting an immigrant train of 1856 led by Captain John Hindley, father of Bishop John R. Hindley, bishop for twenty-three years of American Fork Third Ward, was presented to the Library of American Fork, making a fitting addition to the "Annie C. Hindley Memorial." The "Annie C. Hindley Memorial" section of the American Fork Public Library has over 500 volumes of history, biography, highclass fiction and poetry on its shelves. Sister Mary E. Abel, Secretary of the Stake, gave the following information regarding the Relief Society work of President Annie C. Hindley: O N Sunday, October 29th, 1933, PRESIDENT ANNIE C. HINDLEY before being called to labor in Relief Society had endeared herself to the hearts of every Mutual Improvement girl in American Fork through her efficient labors for a number of years in the Presidency of that association. When the Alpine Stake was first organized she was taken from M. I. A, into the Relief Society work, being chosen as lst Counselor in the Presidency of the Alpine Stake Relief Society, January 20, 1901. In this position she served faithfully for 12 years and was then chosen September 24, 1913, as Relief Society President of the Alpine Stake which comprised 11 wards at that time, numbering 817 members. For 13 years she served as President until her removal from the Stake January 24, 1926, which then comprised 19 wards with a Relief Society membership of 1002. Under President Hindley's supervision a Stake Burial Clothes Department was instituted. Health Clinics were held under the Auspices of the Relief Society. Sunshine visits were instituted that many sick and homebound could be made happy. Bazaars, Parties, Luncheons, etc., were held to raise means. She was delighted to hear the report of these Relief Societies' activities before her release in 1925. The Relief Society membership which she had so wished would reach 1000, was reported 1002. The Burial Clothes Department under the able chairmanship of Sister Sarah S. Chipman from its small beginning January, 1923, reported 50 full suits with parts of suits sold and $170.29 on hand. The Sunshine visits reached 5963. $1583.23 was reported received from 14 wards out of the 19 from bazaars, parties, luncheons, etc. President Annie C. Hindley was a real leader. A woman among women. She said "Come" not "Go." In any undertaking requiring physical labor her part was always fully done. She never asked of her sisters anything she was unwilling to do herself. Many dishes to tempt the appetite of the sick have been carried by her. Every opportunity to comfort and bless seemed to be her pleasure. She was surely a combination of Mary and Martha in her full sweet life of labor example and precept in the Alpine Stake. Therefore her name will always be held in loving remembrance by all who knew her for her sterling integrity and faithfulness to every trust imposed upon her. TRIBUTE TO ANNIE C. HINDLEY Her daughter, Anna H. Curtis, gave the following beautiful tribute: NE of the Book of Mormon prophets once wished for the voice of an angel that he might better declare the Gospel. When I think of the life of my mother and 417 where and when born, when died, etc., but in giving a life of real value, those are not the important things. It is the soul of the person, what she did while on the earth to make life more worth while for those around her and what forces helped her in doing the things she did. ANNIE C. HINDLEY try to put in writing some of the things I feel about her life and her deeds, I wish I had the power of speech necessary to adequately describe her. When we read biography of people, many outer facts are given, One of the greatest teachings ever given was the one to "Love others as we do ourselves." I think very few of us ever ascend the heights that one must reach to live that great law. One of the purposes of earth life is to get a body for the spirit, 418 so that the body may become an even more perfect instrument for the spirit's use. Some spirits seem to conquer the carnal desires so much sooner than others. If ever a person lived whose life from almost start to finish was entirely devoted to others—it was my mother's. First, she was the oldest girl in a family of fourteen and probably here came her first training in doing for others and forgetting self. When she left her father's roof, her schooling in doing for others had fitted her for her life's work. She has given to her husband and her family the same unselfish devotion that she gave her own mother and father, brothers and sisters. It takes courage to forget self in the service of others and this courage mother had. Her love for her religion was beautiful, for it gave her strength to love so well and so unselfishly. She was always ready to help others, to excuse their faults and to give of her own strength in relieving their wants. Her faith in God and this great latter-day work was implicit. Her knowledge of the truth gave her a peace in this life that was beyond understanding. She taught the Gospel by living it. What we think or say or do now can in no way alter or change the facts of her life. Each day she lived she built for herself a monuRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ment that will outlast any word of mine. The hours she gave in service to the humble folk is a monument more worthy than stone or marble. I have a little book that used to be my mother's, in which she kept dates of the wards she was going to visit and she has written little topics that she probably would talk on. Let me just name two: "Happiness comes from doing and giving to others, not from what we ourselves receive." "Kindness I feel is true religion." In those two sentences are contained her creed—and she lived them ev-. Ery day in her life. Simple virtues are often unrecognized because they are so unassuming. Quiet courage and uncomplaining patience are great but often unnoticeable virtues. The things she did were not the acts that men usually recognize as great, but they were the kind acts to those in need, that make for happiness of the less fortunate. "Pure religion and undefiled before God, is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction and to keep one's self unspotted from the world." I think that was the religion my mother tried to live. She used to say if she had wealth, what a pleasure it would be to help the unfortunate and poor. But she shared what she had gladly, and not only shared but gave and went without herself. She surely believed "It is more blessed to give than receive."