Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY—The truest patriotism lies not in colorful gestures but a consciousness of one's duty to his country by obeying and sustaining the law. MRS. HENRY W. BAKER, the only woman member of the Battle Monuments committee left last month for France with Gen. Pershing for the dedication of the monuments, now completed. These monuments on the different battle fields of France and Belgium tell the heroic story in marble and are most ' significant. Mrs. Baker is a past president of the Service Star Legion and will represent that society at the International Council of Women in Paris this July. MRS. VICTOR ASTOR was spokesman before a congressional committee in behalf of changes in the immigration laws, especially as regards deportation. She says, "It is just plain common sense if you want to be human." HELEN JACOBS, U. S. Tennis champion, failed in her bid for the French hard court championship to Peggy Scriven of England. JEAN BATTEN made a new aviation record for women in her flight from England to Australia. MRS. GIFFORD PINCHOT of Philadelphia, and Frieda S. Miller of New York are both working for minimum wage laws for women and to wipe out sweat shops. While Eleanor S. Herrick, regional chairman of the Labor Board of New York has assisted in settling over 400 serious labor disputes. She was a factory worker herself and brings both training and experience to her office. MRS. LEE GREEN RICHARDS of Utah was elected national vice president of the Daughters of the Revolution at the convention held in Maryland. MISS DOROTHY DIXON of Utah University will be a speaker at the American Library Association convention in Montreal. MARGHERITA SARFATTI of Rome, who spent a day in Salt Lake City, recently, is the author of "Dux," the official biography of Mussolini. MISS MARIE FOX of Salt Lake has won a scholarship at Mills College entitling her to a year tuition at the conservatory of music in Munich, Germany. AT Queen Mary's court held at Buckingham Palace thirteen American women, beautifully gowned and bejeweled, were presented. ASTRID of Belgium is the newest queen in Europe, Ioanna of Bulgaria the youngest, and Marie of Jugoslavia is said to be the most beautiful. Among the seven queens only one, Wilhelmina of Holland, reigns in her own right. MINNIE M. BRESHEAR writes of the formative years of Mark Twain in such a telling way that one feels his own words were true when he said, "All that goes to make the me in me was in a Missourian village. SIGNE TOKSVIG'S biography of Hans Christian Andersen is spoken of by the reviewers as "a story of gentle human living." By Holly Baxter Keddington RELIGIOUS training for children must have its foundation in the home. A friend wrote that at Easter time she had been asked to tell the story of Easter to the children of the small community, and after telling the story she asked questions only to discover that many of the children had never heard of Jesus or of God. True this was not a L. D. S. Community, but I just wondered how many of us expect outside influences and training to provide our children with their religious background. How can a mother answer the many questions of wonder about this world we live in, that are almost daily asked by the children of all ages, without mention of the works of God? Whether we are in the park, riding in a car, hiking to some appointed goal, questions of every kind are asked. And I do hope they are answered in a satisfactory manner. A Sunday School board member has estimated that even though your child is regular in his attendance to both Sunday School and Primary that he is receiving no more than seventy-five hours of religious training per year. He wonders at that rate how many years it would take to teach the three "R's". "THE experience of a child guest in the home is one of which every child and every home should avail itself. The home must not be critical of the visitor and the child will find many new and interesting ideas of conduct and general living that he will take home with him. Your children will have to be trained so that they will be good hosts as well as good visitors. In an article 'not so long ago these are some of the qualifications of a good visitor—He will not be inquisitive—under or too suggestive—'picky" with food— seclusive or temperamental, but should be helpful where possible— one of the group—anxious to please —above all make the adjustments of food, sleep and play to that of the host family. Few children will be able to live up 'to these requirements but many will be little trouble on such a visit. Visits to grandmothers, aunts, uncles and cousins are grand week-end or over night visits and the child usually appreciates home more if he is allowed to view the world a bit. * * * * Answers to questions: S. J—Yes. My linoleum is ready for varnish again and by the time you read this it will have it. Thin the varnish down for the places under the table, range, etc., where it is not worn, then you will not notice the piecing. R. Y.—Your question is answered to some extent in the June Journal. If you want more could you write again? The cultivation of the reading habit is well worked out in "Child Welfare," October, 1932, pp. 86-87. Possibly your library has it. Your letters were very kind I am sure.