From Tepee to Tabernacle By Alveretta S. Engar VERY unusual assemblage of Lamanitish people, descendants of Father Lehi, was brought together in the great Latterday Saint Tabernacle by the Genealogical Society of Utah, on the evening of Friday, April 7, 1933. The evening program proved to be intensely interesting and unique. On the stand, occupying the choir seats, were seen native Indians, some of whom were dressed in Indian regalia. Other people having part ~ Indian blood in their veins were asked to take their places in the seats of honor. The Hawaiian and Maori races were also represented. A choir of Mexican natives rendered INDIANS ATTEND CONFERENCE AT WASHAKIE, BOX ELDER CO., UTAH 424 Latter-day Saint hymns in their own tongue. The Hawaiian and Maori contingent gave several numbers of their own native songs and music, accompanied by guitars. FROM Canada, came a very intelligent Indian who told how he became converted to the Gospel. He declared that life had not been especially happy for him because of his birth, for, being part white the Indians did not have much use for him and being part Indian, he was shunned by the whites. However, through the influence of his white wife, who is a devout Latter-day Saint, he was led to investigate the Gospel. Through reading the Book of Mormon and through being RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE brought low in illness, he became acquainted with God's will concerning him. He related several wonderful manifestations in which his ancestors who had passed beyond appeared to him, preaching the truths of the Gospel and admonishing him to follow them. THE whole evening's proceeding was a significant demonstration of the fact that God is remembering his promises to these people that they should accept the truths of the Gospel as contained in the Book of Mormon and receive it as a divine record or history of their forefathers and finally become a white and delightsome pepole. Among the Indian group was a FROM TEPEE TO TABERNACLE number of native mothers with very young babies (and not one of them cried!). Even from the extreme end of the Tabernacle, I observed that the babies' clothing, blankets, etc., were gleaming white. This pleasing picture brought vividly to my mind the great improvement over their condition some years ago. At one time I lived where we saw Indians every day, carrying their babies on their backs, bound tightly down in their bark cradles, the mother with only a piece of cloth wrapped around her for a skirt and the father with only a breech clout about his loins. SOMETIME ago, I visited Southern Utah and copied this very interesting hieroglyphic, a story written on a rock ages ago by the ancestors of these Indians. I wonder if there is any one living who could read the challenging story told by these few significant character pictures. According to Longfellow in his Song of Hiawatha, each character represents many facts, so 425 perhaps on that small space of rock was written pages and pages of history. Now coming back to my opening theme, the Genealogical Pageant in the Tabernacle, President Ivins in his talk on the Destiny of the Descendants of Lehi, said that some of the tribes of Indians worship the serpent, not because of love for it, but because of fear of it. In the hieroglyphic you will notice there are several serpents and also there appears to be a ladder. The thought suggests itself to me that perhaps by climbing the ladder of the Gospel round by round and when the minds and hearts of the descendants of Lehi are touched by Truth's enlightening power, the true and living God will be the object of their adoration and love. Then -from their lowly place in the Indian Tepee they will rise to a seat of honor in the House of God, which by their own hands they will assist in building.