Two Friends of the Indians By Ezra C. Robinson JACOB HAMBLIN JACOB HAMBLIN, who was often referred to as the Apostle to the Lamanites, was born in Salem, Ashtabula County, Ohio, on the 6th day of April, 1819. He, like Ira Hatch, married an Indian woman whom he loved devotedly. At the Spring Conference of 1854 he was called on an Indian Mission by President Brigham Young. The greater part of his life after this call was spent as a missionary among the Lamanites. His ministry was notable because of his intense love for this people whom he regarded as indeed a remnant of the House of Israel. He was regarded by them as their undeviating friend. When he came to Utah he settled in Tooele County. In 1850 he was in a band who went hunting Indians that had stolen horses and cattle from the settlers. As he approached a camp of Indians, the Chief sprang to his feet and said, “I never hurt you and I do not want to; If you shoot I will shoot—if you do not— I will not." He was not at that time acquainted with the Chief's language, but he understood what was said by the Chief. He said, 426 "Such an influence came over me that I would not have killed an Indian for all the cattle of Tooele Valley." And from that time to the end of his life he was a devoted friend of the red man. He relates that a party of white men were surrounded by Indians and their death sentences pronounced. Ira Hatch being among the number asked that he might be permitted to offer prayers—which request was granted —and the Chief's heart was so touched by the prayer that he ordered their release. At one time Hamblin says he took his wife with him up the canyon where she could gather berries and small fruit while he got wood. He had intended to camp in the canyon all night, but a feeling came over him that his life and that of his wife would be in danger if they remained there for the night and so he commenced hitching his team up preparatory to going down from the canyon; his wife wanted to know why he was preparing to leave and he replied that he knew not, but he felt impressed to do so—and he knew it was the right thing to do— for the same reason that he knew the Gospel to be true—he had a testimony by the Spirit of God to him. Returning to the canyon the next day he found that the camp had been robbed and he saw the track of a big foot. Some time later he met "Big Foot''—-an Indian called by that name. Hamblin was told by "Big Foot" that the intention was to kill his wife and him if they had remained in the canyon that night. "Big Foot" said to Hamblin, "If you had come two steps nearer to where I was in the brush I would have buried an arrow in your body up to the feathers." Hamblin relates that at one time the "Holy Spirit forcibly impressed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE me that it was not my calling to shed the blood of the scattered remnant of Israel, but to be a messenger of peace to them; it was also made manifest to me that if I would not thirst for their blood I should never fall by their hand." President Young sent a letter of instructions directing Jacob Hamblin to do all he could to prevent the shedding of blood; not to let the Indians have any fire-arms or ammunition and he wanted the people to get along without the killing of any more Navajos. Indeed, this has ever been the policy of Brigham Young and the Mormons to live in peace with these people as well as with all the world. IRA HATCH  HATCH, son of Ira Stearns Hatch and Wealthy Bradford Hatch, was born at Farmer's Villa, New York on the 5th of August, 1835. He came to Nauvoo in 1844 with his parents. Driven west with his people, he lived for a time at Winter Quarters. In 1849 he came to Utah and settled at Bountiful. He was an Indian interpreter for many years and passed through many thrilling adventures and miraculous escapes from death. In 1882 he was called by Brigham Young as a missionary to labor among the Indians and for the remainder of his long and eventful life he continued his mission among his adopted people. His life among the natives was a veritable romance. At one time when he was surrounded and taken prisoner by the natives, some of the younger savages with their knives in menacing gestures cut off the buttons from his coat and began dancing around him with threatening war-whoops. His eloquent appeals in their native tongue, as he could talk fluently in thirteen native dialects, together with the TWO FRIENDS OF THE INDIANS plea of a beautiful Indian damsel, touched the heart of the Chief and his life was saved. A romance developed and Hatch married the dusky maiden. HE Hopis gave Ira Hatch the name of "Pu-am-ey,'' meaning "Eagle Alighting on the Ground." The name was derived from the familiar posture of the old pioneer— slightly bent forward, with both arms hanging loosely extended several inches from each side. Between 1855 and 1860 he had been a missionary among the Mojave Indians, and was well known throughout the Indian country of southern Utah and Arizona. In the autumn of 1859 Brigham Young called Jacob Hamblin, a noted pioneer of southern Utah, to make a visit to the Mogqui Indians of Arizona. On October 20, 1859, he and his party, consisting of Marion J. Shelton, Thales Haskell, Taylor Crosbey, Benjamin Knell, Ira Hatch and John W. Young, left the Santa Clara settlement, thirty miles south of Mountain Meadows, on the journey to the Moquis. The party remained among the Indians a few days only at that time, but in the following year Hamblin again visited them, accompanied by a party including George A. Smith, Jr., son of President George A. Smith. In the month of October, 1860, a party of nine men, including Ira Hatch, was organized at the Santa Clara settlement to join Hamblin, and on reaching the Colorado river the party crossed the stream in safety. On the second day after crossing the river, however, the party failed to find water and the realization came to them that unpleasant, if not dangerous. Conditions confronted them. On the afternoon of the second day the men encountered four Navajo Indians, 427 who informed them that if they proceeded to the next watering place they would all be killed. The Indians invited the men to go to the camp of Spaneshank, a Navajo chief, not far distant, and assured them that protection would be given by the chief. The invitation was not accepted, and the march to the water hole was resumed. Navajos from every direction began surrounding the column of white men, and an interpreter informed them that the Indians would not permit the white men to reach the Moqui settlements. Camp was made and the interpreter announced that the white men would be permitted to return whence they came if they would trade all the goods carried with them, especially the ammunition, for what the Indians had to offer. While the trade was being consummated, George A. Smith, Jr., turned back on the trail to recover his horse, which had strayed off and disappeared over a low hill. When Smith failed to return after a wait Hamblin sent two men after him, and they found him severely wounded. Three bullets had been fired into his body, as well as a number of arrows. The wounded man was brought back to the camp and died on the trail on the return to Santa Clara. The white men were being followed by hostile Navajos and it was impossible to inter the body, as the stopping of the column would have brought on a fight with the overwhelming number of Indians. The body was placed beneath a cedar tree and covered with a few cedar boughs. In later years parts of the skeleton were removed and given proper interment. Ira Hatch stated that it was the greatest trial of his life to be forced to leave the body of the young man unburied, 428 as the lad's father some years before had told Hatch that he left his son in his especial care. Jacob Hamblin, in his narrative of experience among the Indians, states that he knew no man more brave, more cool-headed than Ira Hatch. The murder of the young man is attributed to the younger element of the Navajos, the older men of the tribe having acted as an escort to the white men until they considered the party safe. SPANESHANK, the Navajo chief, was friendly toward the white people. In many of the written annals of southern Utah this chief is referred to as "Spanish Yank," a corruption of the Indian name. C. L. Christensen of Moab, who, besides being a missionary among the Indians for many years, also acted as interpreter, speaks the Navajo, Moqui and Ute languages fluently and is authority for the statement that the real spelling of this chief's name is '""Dah-nish yant," meaning, "He Did Tell the Truth."' This chief had married a Piute woman at Kanab, his wife being a descendant of Chief Kanosh. Such an inter-marriage among the tribes was contrary to Indian custom of that day; especially unusual was it for one of the Indian aristocrats of the Navajos to marry a despised Piute or Hopi. To escape the nagging of their fellow tribesmen, the couple crossed to the south side of the Colorado river and remained there a number of years. Their firstborn was a daughter, and shortly after her birth the parents removed to Kanab, where the mother's people resided. After a few years the mother died and the father left the little girl in the care of a white family. He returned to his own people and later married a woman of that tribe. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At the time that George A. Smith, Jr., was killed, the wives of Jacob Hamblin and Ira Hatch were with the party of the white men, and the hostile Navajos claimed the wife of Hatch as a member of their tribe and attempted to seize her. Hatch hit one of the Indians over the face with a heavy rawhide quirt until the blood squirted in a stream. Being surrounded by a hostile band. With a wounded man on their hands, this was a brave deed; but withal it was fraught with danger and invited possible disaster to every member of the party. It is related, however, that the older Indians cried out: "He is worthy of his wife; see how he fights for her." This turned the tide in favor of the whites, for the older Indians fell in behind the column as well as taking the lead, and thus prevented the bloodthirsty, younger Indians from swooping down and annihilating the whites. Hamblin, in his narrative, states that at times the hostile Indians came so close that they were within range of the. Rifles of the whites. As related above, the protection given by the older Indians ceased too soon and Smith was killed. Ira Hatch was popular among both the Hopis and Navajos, having at no time any trouble with them with the exception of the encounter mentioned. He accomplished a great deal of good among them and his memory is revered among them. Even to the generation grown up since his death at Fruitland, N. M.. Some years ago. Missionaries and other whites who knew his wife speak of her as an Indian woman of fine fiber, as a good wife, and as a mother who so trained her children that they were a credit and blessing to her.