Before the Indians Became Friendly A PIONEER STORY By Mamie Peters Call HINING like silver," David chuckled as he withdrew the ramrod and gazed down into the barrel of his heavy shot gun. Replacing the rod he laid the weapon upon the table and went to the cupboard and taking, what he thought, in the dusk, was his can of gun powder placed it beside the gun ready for quick action. David and Laura Hughes were members of a band of pioneers who had chosen their farms along the. Banks of a large creek of water that came thundering through the canyon and then soothed by the broad expanse of the valley flowed gently along ready to be guided by the hands of toil. The young husband and wife, having heard the truth of the gospel, turned their faces toward the land of the setting sun and finally settled in a valley of the Rocky Mountains. They arrived just as winter made his appearance and were obliged to live with relatives until the weather permitted David, with the help of new friends to build their own little log house. The settlers were aware that up through the canyon was a camp of Indians. No unpleasant disturbances were made by the redmen during the winter season but when spring arrived they began to show restlessness. Because of the frequency of their visits and the boldness of these neighbors the men arranged brush and large boulders at the mouth of the canyon, in such a way that it would not attract the attention of the Indians, but, in case of an attack, would afford a barricade behind which they could hide and prevent the redmen from destroying their little settlement. IT was the evening of the fourth of July. There had been a glorious celebration and now all that remained to complete it was the dance to be held in the new public hall, which was just finished. Laura fairly skipped into the hall and was soon carried away in a dreamy waltz, the first one she had danced with David for months. The benches were all occupied with the older people and improvised beds filled with sleeping babies. Everybody in the valley was present, excepting two confirmed bachelors, who, after some persuasion, had consented to take their turn at guarding. Time flew so rapidly to the dancers that they were indeed surprised when the fiddler laid down his violin and arose to leave the platform. They all knew that this procedure meant recess and midnight picnic, which was one part of the pastime. Even the watchers were to be remembered with a basket of the dainties prepared. A din of merry voices was heard. Mrs. Jones declared that Laura's dried peach pies were the tenderest she had ever cut. In order to convert the house, which was to be used also for church and public gatherings, into a dance hall it had been necessary to remove the benches and pile them outside against the building. All of the benches around the walls being filled 420 David and his friend Ned Thomas went out to bring in some extra ones so that the dancers would not be forced to stand during the repast: "Listen," said David, grasping his friend's arm. Once more the sound came closer and closer until they could recognize it to be the noise of horses' hoofs and suddenly into the silent night rang out the guard's voice. "The Indians are coming! Quick, quick!"" David called back to let Jake know he had been heard and Jake. Whirled his horse about and rushed back to help protect their little colony. David kept a firm hold on Ned's arm or else he would have rushed into the building in such a frenzy that haste would have been retarded by the excitement. "I will give the word," said David and into the building he stepped. It was not necessary to call for attention as David's voice had been heard but his words were not understood. There was a dead silence as he spoke. "The women and children must remain here. The Indians are on the warpath and are moving down the canyon. We men must go to our post to meet them." Women screamed and children cried but order was quickly restored and the little group of women and children sat down to silently wait and pray. The men, who had as a precaution organized into a company were soon on their way and reached their crude barricade and were secluded before the Indians arrived even though their fearful war cries could already be heard. David rushed home, seized his gun and can and being fleet of foot soon joined the advancing fighters RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to give his life, if need be, to defend his neighbors and Laura. Nearer and nearer came the warriors. Their hideous cries like the howling of so many wolves echoed through the midnight air. An order for loading guns rang out from the captain of the company. David was located in an advantageous position and was all keyed up to fight. He quickly removed his ramrod and proceeded to pour the powder into the barrel of his gun—but alas—instead of his can of powder he had a can of black pepper. He called himself a blundering fool and trembled with remorse at the situation. He could not explain to his fellow fighters because they were too far apart. He could not run back or others, not knowing his motive might follow. What could he do? "Fire!" called the captain and every gun responded but David's. The Indians retreated but only to advance again in more fury than ever. After the second fire there was a retreat, but just for a few moments. They came again even more vicious than before. Two of the whites fell wounded. David felt fit for any kind of punishment. The cold perspiration stood out on his forehead as he thought of Laura. The wary Indians had detected the fact that there was no action behind the big rock in the gully where David was hiding. Minutes seemed like hours and finally he cautiously peeped around the rock just in time to see a menacing face. Nearer and nearer came the creeping Indian. David sensed the confidence his fellow pioneers had in his ability to prevent an invasion at this important position. If one BEFORE INDIANS BECAME FRIENDLY Indian were permitted to pass others would follow and make an attack from the rear. The angry enemy was so close now that David could hear his heavy breathing as he dragged himself along the ground. To strike the redman with his gun meant only an encounter in which the Indian would come out victorious with his deadly knife. In agony David put his hand over his heart and there in the breast pocket of his new gingham shirt reposed the unwelcome can of black pepper. Trembling with fear but determined to try David poured his hand full of the pepper and just as the face of the savage came into view he let the pepper fly into it. A hideous cry of pain rang out and the vicious brave clambered up the hillside and disappeared up through the canyon. The fight continued. Shots from the guns were answered by arrows shot by the Indians. Their uncanny war cries and determination to advance into the valley overwhelmed the fathers, husbands and brothers with a sickening fear for their loved ones who were waiting and hoping back in the dance hall. David thought that the firing would never cease and was seriously 421 considering running back for his coveted can of gun powder when he again heard the cracking of willows. He was almost overcome with terror as the sound came closer and closer. Once more the tricky savages had discovered the lack of apparent defense in the gully and were again attempting to crawl by without being observed by the whites. Crouched close to the rock with his hand full of pepper David steeled his nerves as he saw the long bright feathers decorating the head dress and then the ugly face of the chief himself. "Ugh," grunted the chief, but before he could even get upon his feet David had thrown the balance of the pepper directly into the big brave's eyes. The Indians upon hearing the agonizing cry of distress from their chief, as he ran back up through the canyon, followed in a hasty retreat up to their camp. David kept his secret for a long time and perhaps never would have revealed it if the old Chief had not visited them several months later and remarked, "Heap brave Welshman fight Indians with sneezing powder."