To Your Tents, O Israel! By Lorene Pearson prairies rolling away to the horizon and beyond, even from Winter Quarters huddled on the other side of the Elk Horn River, Millie felt the terrifying silence and emptiness of the wilderness on every hand. For a moment Millie thought that no one but herself was awake to greet this dawn that meant the beginning of the trek westward to Zion. But perhaps it meant more to her than most. This was the beginning of her life as the wife of a pioneer. She raised herself on her elbow and looked out from under their wagon at the cattle and horses within the circle of wagons. They, too, seemed unaware of the significance of this dawn. The whole world was asleep. She felt suddenly important, for she was to be different from all these plodding, hard-working women in this caravan and all the other caravans she had watched depart for the west. Why become clods like they were with husbands that paid them no attentions at all and expected them to work like slaves? No, indeed. She would demand the same gallantries that Carl had shown before their marriage. She looked down at Carl's handsome sleeping face and smiled a little nonchalantly. She shivered, for the air was cold and spring had not yet promised to stay. She knew that there would be ice on the Elk Horn River that ran between their camp and the distant Winter Quarters. But the men had said an early start meant everything in the Salt Lake Valley near at hand, from the prairies rolling away to the horizon and beyond, even from Winter Quarters huddled on the other side of the Elk Horn River, Millie felt the terrifying silence and emptiness of the wilderness on every hand. For a moment Millie thought that no one but herself was awake to greet this dawn that meant the beginning of the trek westward to Zion. But perhaps it meant more to her than most. This was the beginning of her life as the wife of a pioneer. She raised herself on her elbow and looked out from under their wagon at the cattle and horses within the circle of wagons. They, too, seemed unaware of the significance of this dawn. The whole world was asleep. She felt suddenly important, for she was to be different from all these plodding, hard-working women in this caravan and all the other caravans she had watched depart for the west. Why become clods like they were with husbands that paid them no attentions at all and expected them to work like slaves? No, indeed. She would demand the same gallantries that Carl had shown before their marriage. She looked down at Carl's handsome sleeping face and smiled a little nonchalantly. She shivered, for the air was cold and spring had not yet promised to stay. She knew that there would be ice on the Elk Horn River that ran between their camp and the distant Winter Quarters. But the men had said an early start meant everything in the Salt Lake Valley if food was to be raised for the next winter. Men were so practical and responsible! She felt the impulse to twist Carl's ear impishly.; Suddenly a bugle sounded—long quivering notes that made the vast silence hesitate and then recede to the far away hills. Out of covered wagons, from pads beneath the wagon reaches crawled men and women and sleepy children not yet wakened to the meaning of the bugle notes. Gradually the voices became louder and more merry and excited. The horses neighed and the cattle moaned low and throaty messages to the calves. Dawn glimmered along the eastern skyline. Little fires began leaping in the strange blue light and women began bending above them to place kettles so that they might heat the breakfast porridge. Millie went about her duties like the other women but her day was spoiled. With numbed fingers she stirred the yellow meal into the boiling water. Carl had not even said. Good morning when the bugle sounded. He had leaped up and set off for his oxen so that they might be hitched after breakfast while Millie did up her dishes and put them away. He hadn't even kissed her. And suddenly she remembered the other women saying, "He'll soon forget his courtin' ways." Rage filled her heart. She had married Carl because she wanted to be the center of his universe, she wanted his interests to revolve about her. But it was very evident that something had happened now that they were trekking westward. 430 Carl came up with the oxen, a big strapping fellow, with high excitement in his face. He did not share it with Millie, however. He asked for his bowl of meal, sat restlessly on the wagon tongue and looked far away, over the hills to some distant valley. "Please," she whimpered when he had finished, "Just one more look." Carl was irritated but all the same he followed Millie to the rear of their wagon, keeping his eyes on the activity in camp. When they had loaded the wagon Carl had taken her back here to look at all the supplies, had squeezed her with one great arm, whispering, "It's all for you darling.' She hoped for a repetition. But it seemed she was to look at the six hundred pounds of breadstuff, the bags with seed and the shiny ploughshare by herself. Carl's gun stood near the seat in front and directly below it the hundred rounds of ammunition. He had been specially proud of his protection and had showed Millie how to use the gun, "so you'll be a real pioneer." But this morning he had forgotten everything evidently. "Remember," he commented sternly, "We haven't yet arrived at Deseret." He had no more than said this when the voice of their company captain called the word to get in line and Carl had to work fast to get the oxen hitched, leaving Millie to hurriedly put out the fire and place the bowls and spoons and kettle in the wagon and climb upon the seat. Without any help, too, she reminded herself. "THE whine and crack of the long whips set the wagons in motion. The oxen bellowed, the men called loudly to them and the boys on horseback galloped back and forth along the long line of wagons. "We're RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE off," shouted Carl to his neighbor, (not to Millie), and soon the camping spot on the Elk Horn River was lost in the dust. Winter Quarters, a few miles back, became a memory. Ahead of them lay over a thousand miles of unpeopled deserts, vast silences, unknown dangers. "Oh, Carl, Carl," Millie called to her husband, striding along beside his wagon in the ecstasy of the start. "I'm afraid," she said. He frowned at her and went on guiding his oxen and shouting at them to get along in line. Finally he shouted back, "Sister Andersen with her six little children isn't afraid." Well, he hadn't thought she was useless baggage when he was courting her, she was the most wonderful girl in all the world. The wagons crept noisily over the first low hill and there beyond were other hills—to the skyline. A faint trail zigzagged away towards the unknown. Of course, she must remember what Carl had told her time and again that many trains had gone before them, and that Brigham Young and his small party had blazed the way, when there were no trails. But all the same it was frightening. Millie watched the wheel by the front seat turn and turn. Slowly it creaked, carrying dust particles that dropped before the tire reached the top and began to descend. Up and over, up and over and he would not talk to her. There would be hours and days, even months of this sitting and waiting! Some of the older women were knitting as the wagons moved along or Were piecing quilts, but that was old women's work. She was still young and just a bride and she knew she was no different than other brides when she expected privileges. But even Carl seemed leagued against her and looked admiringly TO YOUR TENTS, O ISRAEL at the woman in the wagon ahead of theirs, mending as she rode along, a child in her lap. HE sun rose and reached its zenith. All along the line went the word to halt. The women once more made little fires and set kettles to boiling and dropped the ground meal of the corn from shifting fingers. Carl helped Sister Andersen, who was making the trip alone, Brother Andersen being on a mission to England. And he didn't even notice what effect it had on Millie! When the porridge was done he came over and sat against the wheel eating his noon meal, a far away look in his eyes. Suddenly he muttered, more to himself than to anyone else, "We'll be ploughing ground in two months if we travel at the rate we did this morning." The oxen were grazing quietly on the new grass. The great silence crept ever and ever closer as it had at dawn, a vast, omnivorous, oppressive thing that took great strength to withstand. Millie wanted to lean on Carl's strength, wanted to feel his protection. But before she could say or do anything a shout pierced the noon stillness, echoed down the. Line and the wagons were hurried into formation again. Now Carl was looking fiercely at the rolling horizon, swinging his shoulders as he walked along and cracking his great whip as though she didn't exist. The strange grasp of this migration, this pioneering! It seemed to take men's hearts and minds, lead them on, oblivious of all else. And she resented it bitterly. It was not what she had willed would happen. And here she was going out into this pitiless country with no chance to flee, out into a hideous inescapable kingdom where no one would pay her the least attention. 431 Well, she would not give in to it, she would not become just a cog. "TOWARDS sundown Millie could tell that Carl was getting tired. He swung his whip less frequently and with less vigor and his eager strides had subsided into a measured tread. Her own back ached at each jolt of the wagon and bitter thoughts clogged her mind. But even with his weariness, when the halt was called, the captain of their hundred asked Carl to go for wood at the stream for Sister Andersen. Carl's wagon was nearest the stream, but it formed a part of the great circle that would be the corral for the horses. Millie sat stubbornly on the wagon seat, determined not to move an inch until Carl should help her as well as other women. She looked gloomily at the brush where Carl had disappeared, three hundred yards distant. Suddenly she saw something moving, a bright something that did not look like the clothing Carl had on. She stood up on the wagon seat. Over the tops of the brush she could just see an Indian creeping towards the place Carl had entered. Her first impulse was to shriek the news to the camp and raise a general alarm, but her sense—not present this whole miserable day— returned to her with a snap and she did the only safe thing. She snatched up Carl's loaded gun and set off towards the creek. Quickly she ducked in the willows and crept towards the spot of bright 'color that came through the trees. Then she saw them. Carl, unaware of danger was gathering dry sticks. Behind him, with tomahawk raised high above his head, was the Indian. She raised the gun to her shoulder and shouted. The Indian whooped and disappeared. Carl, taking in 432 the situation at once, smiled broadly and came to Millie's side. "You darling," he said, "the nerve you've got. Who says you aren't made of the stuff that makes pioneer women." He picked her up, rifle and all and set off for the edge of the brush. "Now you are one of us," he whispered. " You have heard the call to tents." "Yes," said Millie, "I see now. To work together is much more fun than having you work for me." THAT night when the silence crept in from the prairie wastes and the men and women were singing hymns around the fire she crept RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out of the circle of light and knelt down to pray. Silently she admitted that now she could understand the proverbs that she used to turn off lightly for now she was a pioneer, now she would try to be so that The heart of her husband could safely trust in her, so that he would have no need of spoil. She would do him good and not evil all the days of her life. On the morrow she would ask to take care of three of Sister Andersen's children for the remainder of the trip. "She would stretch out her hand to the poor; and reach forth her hands to the needy."