Notes From the Field St. George Stake: AMONG the reorganizations of the past year was that of the St. George Stake, in which Sister Miles was released. She presided over the St. George Stake Relief Society for over thirteen years during the time the stake covered all of Washington County, Utah, and it took nine days in a "white top" to visit the 25 scattered wards. Sister Miles was a most efficient and capable stake president. Her sweet smile and quiet dignity gave her a presiding grace which won the love and admiration of the people. This was attested by the social held in her honor after the reorganization. More than two hundred guests gathered to do honor to her. Among the guests were the Stake Presidency, Ward Bishoprics, and a representative from every ward in St. George and Zion Park stakes. Following the tribute to the retiring president and her board, a gift was presented, which brought forth a beautiful response. While Sister Miles represented the faith and strength of the pioneer she also was keenly alive to the development of modern thought, and brought to bear upon her work the fine training made possible through modern scientific methods. Another dear sister who was honored by the stake was Sister Coates, of the St. George West Ward, who has worked for many years in the presidency of this ward. She is best known and loved for the beautiful service she has rendered sewing for the dead. She began this work at the age of fifteen years, and today, at the age of seventy-five is still active. Her outstanding record is typical of Relief Society workers. She has not only given this fine public service, but has raised a family of twelve children of her own and three grandchildren, accomplishing this great work while experiencing the incidents of early pioneer days in Dixie. The West Ward made the 17th of March program an honor day for her, presenting her at the close, with a friendship quilt which carried the names of 450 of her friends. The above picture is of a pageant given by sisters who have given long years of service in the St. George West Ward Relief Society. Eastern States Mission (Washington Branch): THE anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was commemorated in Washington, D. C. By a concert sponsored by the Relief Society. An abundance of musical talent in the branch made possible the presentation of a varied and rich program. The concert was held on the evening of March 17th, in the recreation hall of the new Washington chapel. The artists appeared in formal dress, as did the young ladies of the branch, who acted as ushers. The entertainment was arranged by the officers and members of the Relief Society, and many of those who appeared on the program are actively affiliated with the Society., Following the concert the officers received the members of the branch and their friends, who were especially invited to attend, in the beautiful class room of the Society. Refreshments were later served in the banquet hall. The Relief Society in Washington is fortunate in having among its members a large number of young married women. The enthusiasm with which this organization carries out the regularly outlined work as well as special activities, is outstanding. California Mission: THE members of the Gilroy Relief Society, with their families, gathered at the home of the First Counselor, Sister Lila Avery, about five miles southeast of Gilroy, to celebrate the Relief Society Annual Day, March 17, 1934. The Relief Society colors, gold and blue, preNOTES FROM THE FIELD dominated in the decorations. Marigolds and blue Iris were the main flowers used, while the centerpiece on the dining table was a large birthday cake frosted in gold and wreathed and lettered "Relief Society 18421934" in blue. The dinner was furnished by contributions from the local members, and cooked by Sisters Lila Avery and Anna Hug. It was served family style in the large dining room of the Avery home. San Francisco Stake: AS usual, the San Francisco organization had a most successful year of Relief Society work. This began with a delightful entertainment in the amusement hall of the Diamond Ward, which was decorated to resemble a dining room on board ship. Small tables were used, with centerpieces of dainty ships of various kinds. The officers and crew were dressed in white duck and navy blue middy suits. A short program was given, and an address 437 of welcome to the sixty-five ladies present who were about to embark on the season's lessons. This took the form of a world cruise. Lectures at various ports were given on work and business and other subjects in the course of the year's work. Community singing was led by the officers. A sailors' dance in costume was one of the pleasant features. One of the guests gave a beautiful reading 'The Story of the Sea." Deck games were conducted, and a dainty luncheon was served after the games. The stake officers were special guests of honor. It was a very beautiful beginning for a most successful year's work. Montpelier Stake: THE picture below represents the pageant, "College of Opportunity" as it was presented by the members of the Montpelier Fourth Ward Relief Society. The pageant is inspirational and educational, and was witnessed by a large group of people. COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY, 4TH WARD, MONTPELIER THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS, JULIA ALLEMAN EUs Second Counselor MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs, Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager = Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman