Emotional Reactions to Unemployment and Relief By Evelyn Hodges
PROBABLY the most important effects of the economic losses which have been suffered during the past few years are those which have altered the mental and emotional lives of individuals. The resulting sacrifice of old ideals, the loss of confidences, the shifting of values, have all played their part in changing personalities. The possession of money has an important influence on our lives. It not only determines where and how we live, but aids us in satisfying most of our desires. It assures the possessor a place in the community and usually gains for him the recognition and respect of other individuals. It determines to a large extent one's ability to control his own future and influence that of others.
Consequently, the loss of money tends to destroy the security and respect which money gave. It lessens one's feeling of personal significance. To what extent its loss, and the fact that there is no regular pay check, affects human behavior can only be surmised from the few studies which have been made and from our own practical experiences. Statistics bear out the fact that there has, during these difficult years, been an increase in first admissions to mental hospitals and also an increase in suicides. How much of this is due to financial losses we cannot be sure. A study by Karl M. Menninger of 646 cases of insanity proved financial losses to be a causative factor in only 6.2% of those cases. State hospital authorities usually agree that economic stress is only a precipitating cause. Court records do not show the increase in juvenile delinquency and in crime which might be expected. People have been surprisingly orderly and law abiding during this crisis. Dr. F. Allen of the Child Guidance Clinic of Philadelphia says, "Anxieties associated with economic worries are related to definite things which are real and tangible. The impersonal and tangible nature of economic worries frequently enables the individual to handle his feelings with less evidence of disturbance. It is anxieties which do not have tangible form and meaning which can be most disrupting on behavior."
Suicides, first admissions to State Hospitals and court records do not tell of the struggles and feelings of the masses, the anxiety, fear, despair and rebellion. Neither do outward expressions of people on the street, for those whom we find hysterical or despondent in the home often come to the office in a gay mood and exhibiting a fine sense of humor. People are putting on a front which is intended to hide the suffering which exists. They are on the whole being courageous and optimistic. Though communism has increased its number of followers, the average mind is not turning red. According to Dr. Allen, individuals are taking four different attitudes toward loss of employment and economic resources. Most of them are at first overcome with a feeling of inferiority. They think it is their failure and begin to analyze themselves to discover why they are so incompetent, why they have lacked the foresight or wisdom which they believe would have averted the tragedy. Following this period of self-criticism, most individuals begin to see that unemployment is not a personal affair and they place the blame on society.
One group of individuals, realizing this, draws the conclusion that the thing to do is to make the best of it. These people try to be comfortable and as happy as possible, and usually discover new personal resources or develop old ones., A second group falls into a feeling of indifference and despair when it sees industry and thrift go unrewarded. When individuals go through the steps of loss of property, eviction and dependency, how easy it is for them to say, "What's the use?" A feeling of helplessness comes over them and they lose the power of action. An opposite attitude is true among those of a third group. These, unable to remain inactive, become irritable and quarrelsome. They quarrel with their neighbors or their wives. They dominate the children. Sometimes they are filled with bitterness and develop such a hatred toward society that they become easy prey to revolutionists, and they attack institutions which in normal times they supported. CONDITIONS following the loss of work continue to develop these attitudes and to influence in many ways human behavior. Leisure time does not mean to the unemployed what it means to those with adequate ways of spending time such as car riding, playing golf and dancing. "The poor man has only his crowded home, where a busy wife does not want him around or the street where he tramps weary hours looking for work.' An astonishing number of women whose work and responsibility has increased by the change and who are filled with the fear of hunger and eviction, nag at the husband, who is in the way, and urge him to get out. Some women begin to think they can get along just as well without him, especially if his chief significance to the family was formerly expressed by his pay check. This attitude is often carried over to the children, and the man, realizing that he is losing the respect which was formerly his, tries to maintain it by command. He assumes an autocratic manner which increases the tension. If creditors take back the furniture, or if the landlord serves an eviction notice, the feeling of humiliation and shame can never be quite forgotten. If the family moves in with relatives or friends, an already difficult situation becomes more difficult. New inconveniences and the presence of other people EMOTIONAL REACTIONS TO UNEMPLOYMENT have disastrous effects on disturbed emotions. The family, not able to maintain privacy, finds it harder to maintain a sense of unity and individuality. If the wife takes the children and goes home to her parents who are unwilling to take care of the man, often affections become so weakened that the family is never reunited. A husband who in a heroic mood leaves home to look for work elsewhere, or goes because he thinks he is just one more to be fed, in many cases will never be welcomed back. When separated individuals are reunited, their faith in each other and in family life may have been seriously disturbed or even destroyed. Society has always condemned individuals who are not working. Because of this, and because there is an organic desire for action, which if not satisfied weakens the individual, men have developed a habit of work. Our whole series of moral ideals are based on this habit. In a state of idleness, man's mind and body deteriorate in much the same manner as time and disease wear down idle machinery. Muscles become soft and the will to do is weakened. Conditions which once seemed impossible become tolerable. Just the other day a man who was formerly an independent, wholesome individual said, "The worst thing about this depression is that it makes one so contented with things as they happen to be. I don't know whether I shall ever like to work again." THER ideas are in a process of change. In Robert Nathen's book, "One More Spring," Alfred A. Knopf Inc., Publishers, an old man, a dealer in antiques, found himself in the midst of the depression, penniless, with all of his cherished possessions gone excepting an old bed no one would have. His only food an egg, a small bottle of milk and half a loaf of bread. In thinking things over, he reminded himself that he had been willing, honest and industrious all his life. But, like everyone else, he had expected too much of those virtues. And he was too old now to change his ways. Perhaps if he had his life to live over again, he might do better for himself. His youth, for instance—what strange ideas he had had when he was young. Had he really expected to find love and joy in the world? And justice? Then he answers his own questions: Love and joy were for the young; wisdom and justice for the old— but "no one believed any longer in justice and wisdom—and as for joy and love, no one believes in those any more, either." HABITS of thrift are affected. Hyrum Jones, who spent twenty years of his life working and saving until he saved $15,000, now finds himself on the relief rolls. He says he does not believe in saving anymore. He intends to spend his money before anyone else gets it. There are many others like him, but there are also some who are directly opposite. They have lived on so little and become so miserly that it is questionable whether they will spend enough when they have it to live on a respectable standard. The receiving of relief and our means of distributing it have had more bad effects than should have been necessary. Public opinion has treated the dependent family harshly. Little Mary Wilson has lost much of her sweetness and has assumed an attitude of defense because the children at school have made fun of her poor clothing and call her a beggar because she has accepted free lunches. Her former best friend never speaks to her excepting when she has something unpleasant to say. The public is also too insistent in requiring those receiving relief to 'show their appreciation. The old dealer in antiques, already quoted, told his friend that, "To live by charity is to lose the only advantage of poverty, which is the freedom which goes with having nothing." We who distribute relief have had a tendency to regard those who come to us as problems, rather than individuals with problems. Sometimes we require them to completely exhaust all of their resources, so that they finally come to us broken in spirit with insurance policies lapsed and credit exhausted. Five or ten dollars in a bank does not buy much food, but it may save a family's respect and feeling of security. A home without a mortgage makes the owner feel less like a pauper. If, by giving a man a pair of overalls and a shirt, he can save his only suit of clothes to wear on Sundays and thus keep his feeling of respect, we should not hesitate to give them. Shabbiness hurts worse than unemployment. Resourcefulness in keeping up appearances with little expense and in securing recreation should be encouraged. We sometimes fail to realize that those who need recreation most of all are those who have too many worries and too much leisure. We make plans for their food, but forget that a new article of clothing or a good evening's entertainment sometimes has more value than a meal. Giving relief in kind is also demoralizing. People forget how to spend. After they have learned to regard a sack of flour or a few pounds of salt pork as something RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which the government distributes at regular intervals, it will be hard to use their own hard-earned money to buy such articles. Still, we must be careful not to make relief too easy or too complete, for in that way, we kill initiative: and deaden responsibility. An ever important part of our work is to listen patiently to our client's story, let him relieve himself of some of his burdens by giving expression to his emotions. Help him to understand his possibilities and evaluate himself and then stimulate within him an urge which will help him to realize his ambitions. The effect of unemployment and relief on adults, as severe as it may be, is even more disastrous on youth. The older generation has had an opportunity to try out its ideals and see them work, for a time at least. The man knows what work means, and has had the joy of having the products of his labor used and appreciated. He knows that there is a chance that he will again find his place of usefulness in society. The young boys and girls have gone through school resisting the temptation to stop and go to work. They have often been enthusiastic with the prospect of an opportunity to try themselves. When they learn that society has nothing for them to do, they are surprised, confused and frequently disillusioned. Added to their disappointment is the too frequent reproach of parents who criticize them for not finding work and discourage further schooling. Their eagerness and ambition is destroyed at a time when it should be encouraged. They begin to question all values and often confuse them miserably. EMOTIONAL REACTIONS TO UNEMPLOYMENT There are some constructive values which have developed where individuals have not allowed the feeling of helplessness to control their behavior. Unity of family life has been increased in cases where all members have been sharing and planning together. Much satisfaction has come through meeting situations which have been forced on one, in accepting restrictions and assuming responsibilities never required before. Many individuals calling upon hidden or almost forgotten personal resources are entering into new activity. A carpenter, unemployed, is building a comfortable home, mostly from materials he has secured by tearing down other homes. Finished, it will be attractive, though it cost less than $75.00. One man has built a rock garden which has brought him so much recognition that he is making gardens for people who can pay for his work. Another, who was formerly a common laborer, by attending school, has learned to do electric welding, and is also efficient as an auto mechanic. A woman, never before gainfully employed, is doing housework in return for dental care and for the children's music lessons. There is more interest developing in forms of recreation which cost little or nothing, such as walking, reading, gardening, quilting and sewing. Conversation is coming back into its own, and is on its way to becoming an art. Individuals are analyzing more what they read and hear. They are less often fooled by flowery phrases or nice talk. People are beginning to realize more that knowledge, resourcefulness and experience are savings which do not depreciate with the coming of misfortune. These values arising from the depression are realized by such a small percentage of the people that it is doubtful whether they will go very far toward compensating for the destruction of morale. But if we can emerge from this struggle with a keener understanding of the needs of human beings and can develop a social order which will more nearly meet these needs and prevent such disasters from recurring, society will be better for suffering through. This one..