Quinquennials RELIEF SOCIETY AFFILIATION WITH NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COUNCILS OF WOMEN By Anme Wells Cannon to July 12th the International Council of Women will be held in Paris, France. This is the tenth World's Congress of Women, the first having been held in 1888 in Washington, D. C., and one each succeeding five years, marking the progress of women during those periods of time, hence the name Quinquennial is applied to these Councils. Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, president of the National Woman's Relief Society, is now attending the meeting in Paris as a delegate from the National Council of the United States and as president of an affiliated society. There have been special sessions of the International Council such as the one held last year in Chicago at the Century of Progress. These are held for a specific purpose, and are not the official gatherings known as Quinquennials. It is well sometimes to look back over the years; to note the contrast and change in thought, and custom, and reverently recall the names of honored pioneers whose vision, courage, and indomitable urge for justice marked the onward and upward path for women. We summer from July 2nd THE humble birth of the American Woman's Suffrage Association occurred nearly ninety years ago, when at Seneca Falls, New York, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and the demure Quakeress, Lucretia Mott, held a meeting to discuss "Equal Rights" for women and to organize a society to pursue and demand these rights. This was in 1848. FORTY years later the first World Congress of Women was called by the American Woman Suffrage  Association to celebrate the anniversary of this event. This congress in 1888 was the first world congress of women ever held, therefore its importance and significance is well worth consideration for many reasons. It was history in the making for it was by far the most important and influential gathering of women the world had ever seen. The National Woman Suffrage Association assumed the responsibility of the entertainment of all accredited delegates from American and foreign organizations as well as the expenses of conducting the Council. The call invited all American women, especially those who sympathize with contemporaneous movements for the improvement of woman's position in the state, the church, and the home, and in educational and industrial life to help towards the success of the Council and send delegates. The Utah women since 1879 had been connected with the American Woman Suffrage Association. In the winter of 1879 Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells and Mrs. Zina Young Williams (Card) went to Washington to memorialize Congress in behalf of the women of Utah, who were threatened with disfranchisement. QUINQUENNIALS The Utah women had voted since 1870. These delegates were warmly received by the Suffrage women. This was the beginning of the friendship and loyal assistance of great women like Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Stanton, Lucy Stone, Clara Barton and others which was as lasting as life. To the suffrage conventions during the next ten years Utah sent delegates. Naturally when the call was sent out for this great Congress of Women which invited representatives from all societies, the Relief Society and Young Woman's Improvement Association sent delegates and asked for place on the program. Mrs. Emily S. Richards received this appointment and read a paper giving the history and aims of the Relief Society, the Young Woman's Improvement Association and the Primary Association. Besides the forward looking and brilliant American women like Miss Anthony, Lucy Stone, Frances Willard, Mrs. Stanton and others, from foreign lands there gathered some of the most learned and earnest women in every line of endeavor. Far away India sent Pundita Ramabai with her story of the cruel treatment of the child widow. France sent Mme. Begelat, directress of the work of the discharged women prisoners of St. Lazarre. Mrs. Ormiston Chant of Edinburg, Scotland; Mrs. Alexander Gripenburg of Finland and so on—a long list of names of women distinguished and known for their advanced thought and work in many lands. At this congress it was decided to link together the several organizations in each country into national councils, these in turn to unite into an international council. The first or national councils to meet every three years in a Triennial session and these councils to hold an interna409 tional meeting every five years to be known as the Quinquennial. Later the Triennial was abandoned. "THE first Triennial of the United States was held in Washington, D. C., in 1891. To this important meeting the Relief Society and the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association sent a large delegation. The two organizations of Latter-day Saint women became charter members. Their membership was not gained without opposition but Miss Anthony championed their application with her usual keen sense of justice and loyal friendship. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Electa Bullock, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie and Mrs. Charles S. Burton were representatives from Utah and they came home much gratified at the success of their work. The Relief Society and the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association were thus affiliated with the National Council and through that with the International Council. I the time of the World's Fair or Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893, the second World's Congress of Women was held in that city. This was the first Quinquennial. It was largely through the efforts of Miss Anthony and the women of the Council that the very efficient woman's department under the supervision of the beautiful and accomplished Mrs. Potter Palmer (Bertha Honore) was established. The Utah women besides their contributions to the state exhibit presented Mrs. Palmer for the Woman's Building with three portiers made of cream colored Utah silk embroidered in sego lilies, which 410 were afterwards returned to Utah and are now in the State Capitol. The Congress was held in the Art Palace near the center of Chicago. To each organization a Hall in the Art Palace was assigned. The Utah organizations had Hall VII for special department meetings. President Zina D. H. Young attended this Congress and was shown great honor. She was invited to have a seat on the platform at the Congress of Women Ministers and gave an address. She presided at the Relief Society meeting which. Was pronounced most interesting and received very full and flattering reports in daily papers. The speakers besides the president were Jane S. Richards, Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, M. Isabella Horne and Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon, Dr. Gilchrist, a noted author and newspaper correspondent in her report to the Ashtabula News-Journal said "One of the most interesting meetings of the Congress thus far to me was that of the Utah women." Mrs. Gilchrist had written a book against the Mormon people and after attending this meeting she withdrew it from sale. Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Miss Julia Farnsworth, now Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, the general secretary of the Relief Society also were speakers at the Congress. Among the many distinguished foreign women in attendance was Lady Aberdeen who was elected president of the International Council, a position she holds at the present time and who will preside at the Quinquennial in Paris this summer. "THE third Congress of Women was held in London June 26 to July 5, 1899. This was the first time the Congress had been held in Europe and elaborate preparation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was made by the American women in anticipation of the event. Mrs. Frances Humphrey Gaffrey, a wealthy socialite of New York City was president of the United States Council. Her gracious and liberal contributions of means and influence added greatly to the success of the Council. Over fifty American women had part in some way in this Congress. Utah was well represented in this number. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells at that time was second recording secretary of the National Council and by virtue of this office was accorded a seat on the platform with the officers. She also was the representative of the Relief Society president, Zina D. H. Young. Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, a member of the general board, was a delegate. Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, a patron of the Council, and Mrs. Susa Young Gates, both members of the Young Woman's M. I. A., were also delegates. Mrs. Lucy B. Young, Miss Lucy Gates, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder and Miss May Alder were also representatives from Utah. Mrs. Wells was a speaker in Convocation Hall, Deanery of Westminster Abbey and presided over one of the department meetings. The brilliant and many entertainments rather disturbed the practical Miss Anthony as she feared they might detract somewhat from the real purpose of the Congress. The reports from the different Councils showed marvelous advancement in educational, professional and welfare work through the organized effort of women. 47 meetings were held by the 5 sections besides executives sessions so Miss Anthony must have found plenty to do for even her energetic mind. The most important social function was the trip to Windsor Castle QUINQUENNIALS where the guests were received by Queen Victoria and later served tea in St. George's Hall where other members of the royal family were present. Besides this there was a reception at Stafford House by the Duchess of Sutherland, at Surrey House by Lady Battersea, garden parties by Lady Rothschild and the Countess of Warwick, and other gorgeous parties. HE third International Council of Women and the fourth Conress was held in Berlin, Germany, June 6-20, 1904. The American contingent numbered about 150 though the actual delegates were limited as usual. The new Internationalism was the main theme of this conference. That "Internationalism" which is so cooperative instead of competitive, peaceful instead of belligerent, and which results in honest friendship instead of jealous rivalry. Strange that thirty years after, the same object is still the subject of great conferences and apparently as far as ever from success. Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, a member of the general board of Relief Society attended this Quinquennial as representative of the president, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith. Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenbury, second counselor in the Relief Society, and Mrs. Emily S. Richards also attended this Congress at Berlin. Mrs. Horne gave two addresses at the Congress, one on Legislative work and one on Art. Susan B. Anthony was at this time in her 85th year. She was the outstanding figure at this Congress and received an ovation whenever she appeared. At the reception given to the delegates by the Empress Augusta, the 411 Empress insisted on Miss Anthony having a chair near her though everyone else remained standing. Turning to Miss Anthony she said, "You are my honored guest on this occasion, dear Miss Anthony." Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gillman were two of the most brilliant speakers present. This Council officially recognized three languages, English, German and French. With such a mixture of nationalities it: was imperative to have the proceeding repeated by interpreters which has since been the policy of all Quinquennials. The hospitality of the German Council has never been excelled in charming and social entertainment. "TORONTO, Canada, was the city for the Quinquennial in 1909. The Countess of Aberdeen again crossed the water to be present and was re-elected president. Mrs. May Wright Sewall was made honorary president.. Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, representing the president, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, and Mrs. Emily S. Richards were the Relief Society delegates. The same interesting and vital subjects were discussed and reported on—"Laws for Women Workers," "White Slave Traffic," "Woman's Activity in Trades and Professions" and always "Peace and Arbitration." Alt the close of the Congress nearly all the foreign delegates made a trip across the country and included Salt Lake City in their itinerary. The Relief Society and other affiliated societies entertained these distinguished guests with an organ recital, a ride to points of interest and a banquet at Saltair. Hon. John Henry Smith made the 412 welcoming speech. The venerable president of the Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith, then in her 88th year, was present. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells was toastmistress and responses were made by Frau Marie Stritt of Germany, Emily Janes of Great Britain, Mille Papelin of Belgium, Froken Kroeg of Norway, Baroness Ellen Van Platen of Sweden, Miss Fries of Holland, Marchesse Beanon Del Monte of Italy, Anna Hansen of Denmark. It was a rare opportunity for the Utah women to meet and listen to these great women from many lands. Early in the summer of 1914 the next Quinquennial was held in Rome, Italy. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, first counselor in the Relief Society, was a delegate from the National Council of the United States and Mrs. Susa Young Gates, a member of the general board, representative for the president of the Relief Society, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. Miss Mary Howells, daughter of Congressman Howells, and now Mrs. Stoddard, stake president of the LeGrande Stake Relief Society, accompanied Mrs. Williams to this Congress. War clouds were hovering over all Europe and the excitement of military preparation and issuing of protocols disturbed every attempt to carry on the program. The work of years of peace, education and fraternal feeling seemed doomed to be shattered any hour as indeed it was and the Council adjourned in great confusion, the delegates desiring to return before the fire broke. There was much difficulty in getting passports re-issued, money exchanged, and luggage attended to. In fact many of the delegates returned to their homes only to find their sons already called in to military service, and no one knew if RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there would ever be another great council of women. BEFORE 1920 the war was over, and the work of reconstruction begun. In this, the aftermath of the war the peace loving country, Norway, was chosen for the sixth Quinquennial which met at Oslo, formerly Christiana, the Capital. Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry represented the Relief Society president, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, and Mrs. Lucy W. Smith was a delegate from the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement organization. The women of all the affiliated societies during the period of the war had engaged in every line of endeavor, nursing in military hospitals, work in munition factories, forced in to the fields as farmerettes, worked in gauze rooms, telegraph offices, every kind of business imaginable. Such changes in the status of woman had taken place that the new condition demanded new lines of thought and action, principally relief work among the broken homes and havoc created by the great holocaust. To bind up the wounds and soften the scars with tender care and bring a surer dawn of peace was the theme of this conference. Many of the pioneers had passed on and new women with new strength and new thought had to prepare for a new world. PEACE, Peace, Peace, was the watchword at the Quinquennial which met in Washington in 1925— May 6-14. About 30 women were in the Utah party which attended this Congress. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, president of the Relief Society, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, first counselor and patron of the national Council, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, general secretary, a QUINQUENNIALS patron and recording secretary of the National Council, was one of the ten delegates of the United States, and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon of the general board went from the Relief Society. Mrs. Ruth May Fox, also a national officer and Mrs. McFarlane from the Young Woman's Improvement Association. There were hundreds of women from all the countries in Europe from South America, Pan America, Australia, India and the islands of the sea. Washington was beautiful with the bloom of cherry blossoms and magnolia and everything possible was done to make this council successful, but at the same time the bitterness of war settlements sometimes seemed to break the harmony. Lady Aberdeen now grown old in service presided. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman because of her national position had the privilege of attending all the executive sessions and enjoyed other honors accorded only to officers. The entertainments included a trip down the Potomac to Mt. Vernon where a program was held before the tomb of Washington. Lady Ogilvie Gordon placed a wreath from the Council and made a few remarks as did also the presidents of the Swedish and French Councils. There was a drive to Alexandria to the home of Kate Waller Barrett, a former officer and worker in the Council. The most impressive occasion was the meeting on Mother's Day at Arlington, the National Cemetery. Thousands of women from all over the world gathered in solemn service in the great white marble amphitheatre. As the officers of the Congress marched along the arcades 413 to the platform while the United States marine band played the great audience stood at attention. The service was conducted by the War Mothers of America. General Pershing, Lady Aberdeen and the president of the War Mothers were the speakers. The adorable Schumann Heinke sang two numbers, then the guests passed in front of the tomb of the Unknown Soldier, where taps were sounded. I 1931 the Quinquennial was held in Vienna, Austria, and Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, at that time presiding over the Latter-day Saint Relief Societies of the European Mission, was appointed to represent the Relief Society. There was a much smaller number of American delegates present, as the unsettled condition of central Europe produced a difficult situation for outside conferences. EXTENSIVE and elaborate preparations have been made for the Quinquennial this year in Paris, France, and once again America expects to have a large representation. In that beautiful capital everything possible will be done for the entertainment of the women of the Council and the wonders of the city with its historic places and works of art will charm and allure them all. A better understanding among nations and the outlawry of war will be the principal aim of this conference, a cause with which all women should unite that the words of the prophet may come to pass and "nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more."