[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER. | Author: Unknown]

	EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.
	The following items are from a letter
written to E. W. East, of this city, by El-
der George L. Farrell, who is at present in
the Nottingham conference. The letter
was dated May 25th, 1875.
	After giving some account of his health
and the labors of the brethren in that lo-
cality, and making some inquiries regard-
ing friends and affairs in Utah, he alludes
to othe arduous uphill business of doing any-
thing which has not got money in it, says
"that is about all the people are after, from
the king on  throne, to the merchant,
the minister, the laborer, and even the beg-
gar in the streets.
	"One of our sisters" he says "asked a fine
grown, strong, healthy-looking young wo-
man, who came to the door begging, if it
would not be far better for her to try and
get a situation at some gentleman's house,
than to go through the streets begging as
she was doing. The young girl replied; no
indeed it wouldn't! The sister inquired the
reason; her reply was, it wouldn't pay,
there wasn't money enough in it. The sis-
ter opened her eyes in astonishment, and
asked her if she could get more money by
begging. She answered, "Oh yes! it is a 
very poor street that I cannot get a penny
in and I can visit sixty streets per day and
at least that will clear me five shillings, and

[Column 2]
and I am my own mistress into the bargain. 
	In our travels among the people we find
when men have earned their money, (and
wages are higher now than they used to be)
they hand over a certain amount to their
wives, just as little as they can manage
things with, and the rest they spend in 
drinking, gambling etc. and in passing
through the streets every fourth man you
meet (and some women) have beer, gin
whiskey or rum depicted in bold characters
upon their countenances so plainly that the
passers by cannot help but look, and read;
and many exclaim what a shame for a gov-
ernment like Great Britain to license beer-
shops, gin-places etc. It is plan to be seen
by the world at large, as well as the saitns,
that these very excesses and abominations,
are going to prove the over-throw and de-
struction of the nations.
	I passed through a village of about two
thousand inhabitants the other day, and the
signs over the doors were so thick, that in
the Main Street alone I counted three hun-
dred and seventy-eight, ninety-seven of
which were licensed to sell intoxicating
drinks; which we find is over one-fourth of
the whole; and one would naturally wonder
where the money comes from to support
them all; but when we read the statistical
reports of some of the leading cities, the
problem is solved. I came across some
statistics (a short time ago) of London, ob-
tained from the reports of the London City
Mission, viz.; "It is the largest city in the
world, it covers nearly fifteen miles radius
of Charing Cross, nearly seven hundred
square miles and numbers four millions in-
habitants, including one hundred thousand
foreigners.
	London contains more Jews than the
whole of Palestine, more Roman Catholics
than Rome itself, more Irish than Dublin,
more Scotch than Edinburgh. The port of
London has every day in its waters a thou-
sand ships, and nineteen thousand sailors.
More than a hundred and twenty persons
are added to its pupulation daily, or forty
thousand yearly, a birth taking place every
five minutes, and a death every eight min-
utes. On the Police Register there are
names of a hundred and twenty thousand
habitual criminals, increasing by many
thousands every year.
	There are as many liquor-houses as would,
if their fronts were placed side by side,
reach from Charing Cross, to Portsmouth, a
distance of seventy-three miles. Thirty-
three thousand drunkards are annually
brought before its magistrates, besides the
many thousands of drunkards who are not
brought before  authorities. The shops
open on Sundays would form streets sixty
miles long, and it is estimated that there
are above a million people, who are practi-
cally heathen, wholly neglecting religion."
	Br. Farrell says these facts prove there is
an extensive field of labor, for a good sup-
ply of faithful elders to preach the Gospel
of Jesus Christ; and that the Elders who
are laboring with him in that vicinity, are
using every effort in their power to get the
brethren and sisters to break off from their
old habits of drinking beer, tea, coffee etc.,
and putting their means in the P. E. Fund,
instead; and all who are doing so, are pros-
pered beyond their anticipations.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
