[Column 1]
pathy with the surroundings in Rome,
this afforded him a knowledge and an
open sesame to many things that must be
sealed books to Protestants. 
	Many of his characters are more or less
pictures of his friends. 
	These records taken together form
a brilliant and true explanation of Ro-
man society, and politics as they
existed in the last struggle of the Papal
power for supremacy. The first of the
series introduces us on the scene of that
conflict in the year 1865, when the great
Cardinal Antonelli and the Holy Office
were still all powerful in Rome, in the
exercise of their rights of espionage, when
says Mr. Crawford, the Second Empire
was in its glory. Mr. Emile Zola had
not written his “Assomeir,” Count Bis-
marck had just triumphed in his mon-
archy, Sadiwa and Sedan yet unfought,
Garabaldi had won Naples and had Cavnor
had said, “If we did for ourselves what we
did for Italy, we would be great scoun-
drels.” In the year 1865 people crossed
the Alps in carriages, and the Suez Canal
had not yet been opened; the first At-
lantic cable had not been laid, Pius X
reigned as the Holy See, Louis Napoleon
was the idol of the French, President
Lincoln had not been murdered—is any-
thing more needed to separate those
days from these?
	The estates in the country are pic-
turesque, with their great castles dating
back to the Dark Ages, and their feudal
laws. One American critic has said,
“Mr. Crawford has written the best and
the worst American novels, and they were
the “Saracinesca” and “An Ameri-
can Politician;” whether true or not,
he is certainly very dashing in style,
in method subject to no school, but show-
ing a most remarkable, romantic heritage. 
He is dignified as a lover, of which he
writes a generous share. Languages were
his passion at school, and what was his
surprise to read one of his own stories in
a Russian publication, and he says he en-
joyed it, too. At another time one ap-
peared in the Danish dialect, yet they
were published without his knowledge or
permission. They are read in almost all
European languages. He has produced
eighteen novels in ten years. He has a
natural eloquence and facility, which en-
ables him to write rapidly, his sentences
requiring but little revision. His periods
are pointed and brilliant, and have much
grace of rhythm. For instance, the fol-
lowing sketch of a valley in the lower
Himalayas: “The gulf that divides you
from the distant mountain, rises like a
huge bite, taken bodily out of the world
by some voracious god; far away rise
snow peaks, such as were not dreamed of
in your Swiss town; the bottomless val-
ley at your feet is misty and gloomy, with
blackness, streaked with mist, while the
peaks above shoot gladly to the sun,
and catch his broad side rays, like ma-
jestic white standards. Between you, as
you stand cautiously against the hill be-
hind you, and the wonderful background
far away in front, sails a strange vision,
scarcely moving, yet not still. A great
gold shield, sails steadily in vast circles,
sending back the sunlight in ivory
tints of burnished gold. The golden
eagle of the Himalayas, hangs in mid air,
a spot of polished metal to the eye, paus-
ing some time in the full blaze of reflec-
tion, as ages ago the sun and the moon
[-]tood still in the valley of the “Aialon,”

