[Column 1]
		LUCRETIA MOTT.
	If Elizabeth Cady Stanton was the
mother and the organizer of the woman
suffrage movement, Lucretia Mott was its
saint and prophet. Her name should be
familiar to this generation and passed on
to the next with loving reverence. Lucre-
cretia Coffin’s ancestors were amongst the
first settlers of Nantucket Island and there
she was born January 3, 1793. Tristram
Coffin left his English home with his wife,
Dionis, and five children in 1642. Having
organized a company to purchase the is-
land of Nantucket, he moved there in
1662 and became one of its chief men.
This third son, James, was the great-
greatgrandfather of Lucretia and among
his descendants were two admirals in the
British navy.
	There was a hint of woman’s rights
early in the family, for according to an
old chronicle, Mary Coffin, who married
Nathaniel Starbuck, was a Deborah
among the population and little of mo-
ment was done without her sanction at
the town meetings, where she took an ac-
tive part. She probably carried her point
because she seemed to represent her hus-
band’s wisdom. Usually beginning her
remarks with “My husband thinks,” or
“My husband and I feel,” but the women
of Nantucket were no mean-spirited folk.
For the most part their husbands were
seafaring men and in their long absences
the wives governed the families and the
estates, and if need be took up business
to add to their incomes. An historian of
the island says: “These circumstances
give women the ability as well as the taste
for that kind of superintendency to which,
by their prudence and good management
they seem to be in general very equal.
This ripens their judgment and justly en-
titles them to a rank superior to that of
other wives.” From such stock was Ben-
jamin Franklin descended; also Anna
Gardiner, enshrined in the annals of the
woman’s suffrage cause, and Anna Fol-
ger, Lucretia Mott’s mother, who married
her old playmate, Thomas Coffin, when
she was seventeen years old, and he had
just taken command of his first ship.
They were both strong and steadfast in
character and the mother was ditinguished
for great energy and keen activity. Lu-
cretia was the second of their six chil-
dren and was therefore made helpful at
an early age. One of her duties when
she was four was to draw the chairs in to

