[Column 2]
the largest she had ever seen. Said
the present time reminded her of the
days of Nauvoo. Was thankful that she
had not lost faith. While at Salt Lake
she had the privilege of seeing the watch
that preserved the life of President Tay-
lor in Carthage jail.
	Pres. Julia Bingham reported Garland
Relief Society, where they were interest-
ed especially with the mother’s work.
Prest. Mary Fridehl of Elwood reported
that society, spoke of existing circum-
stances and of the changes made for the
winter; had 173 bushels of grain in gran-
ary: Sarah Fridehl reported the society
of Bear River City; spoke of their granary
and expenses; referred to some traveling
missionaries and of treating them kindly.
Prest. Ward of Willard felt proud to rep-
resent the sisters of Willard. Said their
attendance was 180; are building a new
granary; spoke on charity. The congre-
gation joined in singing a hymn. Prest.
Mary Tolman of Honeyville, reported
that society; said they had not many
poor, but had made quilts and carpets to
help pay for a building.
	Counselor Lucius Snow was pleased to
look into the faces of the sisters; they
were women who had passed through
many trials and hardships—the younger
people cannot appreciate what these eld-
er sisters had passed through; said he had
a great deal of respect for these sisters.
Spoke on prophecies and their fullfilment
and of the influence Sister Zina Young
had over him on account of her kindness
and her faith in God; he could not realize
it then as at the present time; no other
person impressed him as she did; spoke
of his dislike to the remark of not being
religiously inclined; made a suggeston
about lining granaries with tin.
	President Booth felt all had been blest
this morning.
	Adjourned after singing and benediction.
	Assembled at 2 p,m., President Booth
presiding.
	After the usual exercises, Prest. Love-
land of Deweyville reported that soci-
ety—34 members enrolled, average at-
tendance 20; the teachers are doing
good work, but they have no poor in their
ward, but had visited all the homes.
Prest. Hannah Harper spoke on the Word
of Wisdom; our burden is lightened when
we live our religion; referred to the
changes that had taken place since they
settled in these valleys.
	Pres. Thorne of Perry reported that
ward, also made remarks on the Word of
Wisdom. Counselor Julian Olsen of Man-
tua gave a report of their society and
excused the presidents’ absence; spoke
well of her; felt that they should all keep
the Word of Wisdom. A selection was
given by six of the sisters.
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen was grateful
for life in this wonderful age; spoke on
the Word of Wisdom; gave instructions
on mother’s work, said, “My whole am-
bition is to see my family good Latter-
day Saints;” she counseled the sisters not
to store poor grain and fix the granaries
so that the grain would not spoil; gave
instructions on many subjects pertaining
to the spiritual welfare of the people in
the ward. Counselor Mary Harding gave
her experience on the Word of Wisdom;
had visited Relief Society conference at
Salt Lake City; said, “Let us be kind and
helpful to one another.”

[Column 3]
	Stake Counselor Wm. B. Horsley re-
lated an incident concerning pork as diet;
spoke on apostacy and the fulfillment of
prophecy.
	Prest. Olen N. Stohl felt he was in
good company, and said, “These are
things for mothers to consider, for a
mother’s care does more for her boys than
anyone else; we cannot teach the children
things we do not practice ourselves;”
hoped that all the officers and teachers
kept the Word of Wisdom, so they could
teach it when visiting the people.
	Miss Hattie Wright gave notice of a
Young Ladies conference and invited all
the sisters.
	President Booth spoke of the time be-
ing too short for all to speak she would
like to hear; reminded the sisters of the
yearly donations.
	The conference adjourned until the sec-
ond Tuesday in June, 1907, after singing
and benediction.
				EMMA VANCE,
					Stake Secretary.


