IN MEMORIAM.
	On December 24th, 1906, at the age of 96 years,
Frances Russell Evans, passed away at the home
of her daughter Mrs. Ann Brown of Murray, Utah,
She was the daughter of John and Ester Russell,
was born September 16th, 1810, at East Harptree,
Somersetshire, England.
	She embraced the gospel September 1849, in
Bristol, and emigrated to Utah a widow, in 1862.
The first year after her arrival she resided in Og-
den; then she removed to South Cottonwood, where,
with the exception of a few years, which she spent
with her son, W. H. Evans, in Salina, Sevier
County, she has ever since lived. She leaves one
son, one daugh er, eighteen grand-children and
one great-grand-child.
	In her own land her heart and home was ever
open to the Elders, many of whom will doubtless
remember her hospitality at No. 2 King Street,
Bristol, which was sometimes known as the Mor-
mon Barracks, where weekly meetings were held
for many years.
	Her life has been one continual struggle, full of
trials and hardships. One son died on the plains;
a daughter was drowned shortly after their arrival
in the valley. Her other son was a soldier in the
British army; but this brave little woman determ-
ned to buy him off, that he might gather to Zion.
This she accomplished but through some mistake
he reinlisted. Again she worked by the day, often
walking from Cottonwood to the City and back
again after her 1abor, to obtain the means to again
release him. On his arrival in Utah, with one of
her grand-sons to accompany her and with a loaf
of bread tied in a handkerchief she walked to Og-
den to meet him because she could not afford to
pay her fare.
	For many years she has been blind and latterly
deaf as well, which virtually shut her out from the
world. However, all through life she carried a
cheerful countenance and a heart full of gratitude
for her blessings, and especially for the kindness
of her children. The simplest of food was all she
asked and a clean white apron was her most ela-
borate adomment.
	Her funeral services were held in the Grant
Ward, December 27th. Bishop Wm. W. Mackey
presiding. The other speakers were: Gustave Ol-
sen. Robert F. Neslen, John H. Kelson and John
G. Kelson; Sister Ruth M. Fox also spoke a few
minutes.
	At last the long journey is ended,
		The kind weary hands are at rest;
	The sad darkened vision has opened,
		On the hopes and joys of the blest.

	The tottering steps are now nimble,
		The spirit is free as the air;
	Her robes are as white as the snow-drift,
		Her countenance beaming and fair.

	All gone are the sorrows and hardships,
		The worry for something to eat;
	The sacrifice, planning, and saving
		To make the short slender threads meet.

	But sweet are the smiles of the angels,
		Who guarded her all the way through;
	Who knew of her faith; her ambition
 		That all whom she loved might be true.

	And tender the voice of the Father,
		As He said to the Registrar: “write
	Her name in the book with the great ones
		And crown her with glory and might.”
