OBITUARIES. 
	Sister Rachel Mitchell Helm of Mill Creek Ward,
died at her home, October 4th, 1906, she was a
faithful member of the Relief Society and an active
worker as a teacher for many years.
	She was always firm in the principles of the
gospel, was liberal to the poor and a comfort to
those who mourn.
	Truly we miss her from onr midst. Although
her sickness has been of that nature which confined
her to home, the name of Aunt Rachel was known
far and wide and she was loved for her noble and
pure life.
	She was self-sacrificing having the manage-
ment of her family and the business of the farm
in the absence of her husband while he performed
two missions.
	By her request the Sisters held meeting at her
home when she had an opportunity of speaking
and bearing testimony to ber knowl dge of the
gospel, which she had received from her youth
having been born in the everlasting covenant.


The day before she died one of the blessings of
the gospel was attended to wherein she rejoiced
and felt comforted.
	We did not realize that her time on earth was so
short, but she died as she had lived a faithful and
true daughter of our Father in Heaven and her
reward is sure
	She was the loving wife of Brother Andrew D.
Helm and the devoted mother of five children.
Husband and four children, one son and three
daughters, survive her, and from personal knowl-
edge we feel they are striving to put in practice the
teaching of th ir departed mother.
	Sister Helm was born at Salt Lake City, July
20th, 1855. Her parents were Elder Benjamin T.
Mitchell and Lovina Mitchell
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house Saturday, October 6th, where many
relatives and friends m t to pay their last respects
to the dear departed. Bishop J. C Hamilton pre-
sided over the services. Appropriate music was
rendered by a select quartet.
	The Sister speakers were Elizabeth Snedaker.
Frances H. Hanson, Nellie S. Cornwall and Mar-
garet M. Spencer; each spoke of their love for
sister Helm.
	Several of the brethren spoke of her noble life
work and her devotion to her religion. Beautiful
floral emblems covered the casket, after the bene-
diction by Elder W. C. Winder a long line of car-
riages followed the remains to the Mill Creek
cemetery, where the grave was d[-]dicated by bishop
James C. Hamilton.
	The pallbearers were Bej. T. Helm, Rov An-
derson, Daniel Mitchell, Charles Mitchell, Edgar
Mitchell and Elmo Mitchell.


One more of our faithful sisters has been gather-
ed home, she has passed from death unto life, she
had every thing in her beau[-]iful home to make
life desirable where she lived in the midst of beau-
tiful flowers The Lord’s will be done.
	Sister Josephine Osterman-Cramer, beloved wife
of Christopher Cramer past away in her 51st year.
She was a devoted wife and mother, leaving hus-
band, four sons, and many friends to mourn her
loss
	She was a faithful member in the Relief Society
of Mill Creek Ward, was very liberal in her dona-
tions for the poor. The day before her death she
sent a donation to the Society.
	She had been in delicate health for some time.
President Mary B. Hamilton and her aids had
visited her often when she was comforted and re-
joiced exceedingly. She was a most lovable wo-
man, a lady in every sense of the word.
	We as members of the Relief Society mourn her
loss but not without hope in a glorious future for
her, her good deeds will follow, she will meet
her reward  We also extend our sympathy to her
sorrowing relatives and friends
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house December 2nd, 1906. Bishop James
C. Hamilton presiding. Many sympathis ng rela-
tives and friends met to pay their last respec in
this life. Amongst those who spoke of her noble
life was President Mary B Ham lton, President
Anthon H. Lund and brethren who had known
her from childhood. A quartet from Salt Lake
City rendered sweet music, one of the brethren
singing the hymn “O My Father” The floral
emblems were beautiful showing the respect in
which she was held.
	After the benediction was pronounced the mourn-
ers in the eight coaches taking their place the cor-
tage took its departure for the Salt Lake City
cemetery, where the remains were laid to rest.
					FRANCES H. HANSON.
