[Column 1]
sons and one daughter, to them she was
ever a kind and affectionate mother and
was untiring in her efforts to enhance
their comfort and pleasure, a great por-
tion of the time having to be both father
and mother to them Besides her own
children she took a pair of twins to raise
a boy and a girl. Sister Emma had given
birth to a pair of twins on April 30, 1831,
both of whom died. The wife of John
Murdock gave birth to a pair of twins the
same day and soon after expired. Sister
Emma toook the motherless twins in the
fond hope that they would fill the void
in her life occasioned by the loss of her
own.
	When made known and explained to
her she accepted the order of celestial
marriage, and in obedience to that law
gave her husband several wives, to whom
she was ever kind and they in return
loved and respected her.
	During the dreadful scourge of sickness
at Nauvoo in the first year of the settle-
ment of that place, she was considered
an angel of mercy, she was so untiring in
her efforts to comfort the sick; and her
presence was a solace to many in their
dying hour. There were so many in dis-
tress, that the Prophet and his wife com-
menced taking the sick into their own
home, with the view of taking care of
them more comfortably. This they con-
tinued to do until their home became so
crowded that they were compelled to
spread a tent for that part of the family
who were still on their feet, in order to
make room in the house for the sick.
	Their home was ever open to the aged
and homeless, a number making it their
permanent home and they were waited
upon and cared for with the greatest of
generosity and patience.
	Sister Emma at that time was indeed
an Elect Lady, one whom everybody
loved that got acquainted with her. It is
very fitting that the Relief Society should
take time to consider and reflect upon the
history of their first president. She had
the honor of being called to that position
by the prophet himself and held the posi-
tion during his lifetime and was every way
qualified for its duties.
	In time of peril she was a wise counsel-
or to her husband: when surrounded by
persecutions and trials she was ever ready
to give comfort and consolation; she ac-
companied him on many perilous journ-
eys in the nighttime, when only the tried
and tested knew of his whereabouts or
errand.
	When occasion permitted she enter-
tained his friends with charming grace,
for she was a lovely woman and a model
hostess.
	When the news was conveyed to her
that her husband had met his death at the
hands of the mob she was overcome with
grief, but bravely bore the burden.
	After the martyrdom of the Prophet
and his brother, the Patriarch, the Twelve
Apostles constituted the presiding Quorum
of the Church. In 1846 Brigham Young
led the saints to the West, where they
hoped to find a home free from mob
rule.
	There seemed to come over Emma
Smith a complete change when the ar-
rangements were made for the removal
to the West. She took no interest in
them, but rather preferred to remain in
her Nauvoo home. Those things that to
her had been most sweet were now most

