[Column 2]
St. George’s Church is here at Graves-
end, where Pocahontas was buried; you
know she came to England and embraced
Christianity, and married Thomas Wolfe.
She was received by Queen Anne, wife of
James the first. A small monument
erected to her memory is here, bearing
the date March 26, 1617. Well the sights
are too numerous to give in detail, and
then there are the chalk mines. I do not
wish to tire the readers of the Exponent
so we will leave our friends at Gravesend
for a while and take the train for Chat-
ham, where we have another brother
and nephews.
	Here exists a little band of Saints, very
small; the first we saw was Elder Orlando
Bateman and Elder Jno. Saville his part-
ner. They were holding afternoon meet-
ing at 136 High St. at Brother Abery’s
house, though they had just commenced
to hire a school hall, where we took our
brother-in-law and nephews to hear our
Elders preach. When I saw and heard
these young men standing in the hall ex-
plaining the principles of the Gospel, I
thought how proud their mothers would
be if they could only peep in just then.
The congregation was composed mostly
of children, but the seed sown in these
young minds may sprout, and who knows
what the harvest will be after many
days.
	While visiting our brother and family
at this place, we visited the hospital.
This hospital is a sample of many in Eng-
land. This building was erected and en-
dowed by a generous donation, then after-
wards is kept up by the working men’s
subscriptions which they pay as regularly
and as systematically as they receive their
wages, and for every guinea they sub-
scribe they are privileged to give a recom-
mend to one inside patient or two outside
patients, for one treatment. These rec-
ommends are sometimes given to non-
residents and to those who are out of
work or cannot afford to pay for advice
that they may receive either surgical aid
or medicine. Before leaving Chatham our
brother Harry and wife took us to
Rochester Park and church yard, there
we saw some lovely flowers and shrubs.
While we were passing the Rochester
Cathedral it was evident that an official
marriage ceremony was about to take
place, as the gentlemen were all dressed
in full uniform and they did look grand.
While here at Chatham, or close by, we
walked down to see the Jezreelite tower,
or temple. This building is constructed
of iron and brick and was designed by its
founder to shelter the lady of the faithful
when the world was to come to an end.
But the work did not progress beyond
the fifth floor, after 44,000 pounds had
been expended, the finances came to an
end and the structure was seized by the
contractors under the order of the court;
the last we heard of it was that it had
been turned into a warehouse.
	Then we run up to Gravesend to take a
peep at the good folks, then go on to Pop-
lar, called at a photographer’s art gallery,
had quite a conversation with him; he
belonged to a physical culture society, did
not drink stimulants nor tea or coffee.
When some people up here refuse these
beverages they are told, “Well, you must
be very religious.” A young man living
in Teton Basin, and who staid all night
at our place, once said his mother was
very religious, she would not drink tea or
coffee, I told him here were infi-


