[Column 1]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
MARCH 17, 1842 AND 1907.
“In Faith and Hope the world may dis-
	agree.
But all Mankind’s concern is Charity.”

	The seventeenth of March is an im-
portant date to all the women of the
Church of Latter-day Saints, as it marks
an epoch in their history that has been as
a guiding star to them all through the
many long years. It was this day in the
year, on Thursday, 1842, in the historic
city of Nauvoo the Beautiful, that the
great Latter-day Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society, known now
throughout the world.
	Many times on the speakers’ platform
of the National Woman Suffrage Associ-
ation and the National Council of Women
Miss Susan B. Anthony has said,—The
representative from Utah can tell you.
more about the organizing of women than
any of you have ever heard; and she has
alluded in most complimentary terms to
our women being trained to speak with-
out papers, through our perfect system
of organizing and method of conducting
these affairs.
	This year of our Lord marks the sixty-
fifth round in the ladder of years, since
the day when a handful of women met
together in the Masonic Lodge Room in
Nauvoo for the purpose of being organ-
zed into a Society of which they could
only have had a very indefinite idea; but
in all probability the young Prophet
Joseph, himself, foresaw its greater de-
velopment, in the future of Zion, some-
thing of what we are aware today.
	The women who have taken part in
active service in this philanthropic move-
ment are numbered by many thousands,
and in fact thousands of members have
already passed behind the vail, and of
those who remain of the early workers
there are but very few now living; here
and there we read of some one in whose
obituary it is said, she was connected with
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, but only
one is now living who was present at its
organization; our own General President
of the Relief Society of the Latter-day
Saints’ Church, and that is our beloved and
honored Elect Lady—Bathsheba W.
Smith. Sister Jane S. Richards President
of the Rebel Society of the Weber Stake
of Zion is the only other member (of that
society in Nauvoo) of whom the writer
knows. If there are any others we should

