[Column 2]
daily duties of the eldest daughter of a
family of eight were presumably hers.
	In October, 1825, a young man, Joseph
Smith came to board at the Hale home.
He had been employed by Mr. Josiah
Stoal to assist in digging for a silver mine
in that neighborhood. Mr. Stoal had de-
sired the assistance of this young man be-
cause he had heard that he had certain
means by which he could discern things
invisible to the natural eye.
	While boarding at Isaac Hale’s home,
Joseph Smith began to pay his addresses
to one of the daughters of the family.
The parents of the young lady were very
much opposed to this. They were ac-
quainted with the fact that this young
man had proclaimed to the world that he
had seen a vision, that the Father and
the Son had appeared to him, and they
ignored the statement because their be
lief was that such things were done away
with. They thought they would be dis-
graced in the eyes of their friends if their
daughter should marry such a man.
	Emma Hale was 23 years of age, and
under the law mistress of her own ac-
tions, she made her own decision in favor
of the young man whom she had learned
to respect and love. January 18, 1827,
they went to the home of Squire Tarbill,
in South Bainbridge, Chenango County,
New York, and he performed the mar-
riage ceremony for them.
	Joseph Smith had confided in his
mother in regard to this important step
in life. His mother says: “Joseph called
my husband and myself aside, and said, ‘I
have been very lonely ever since Alvin
died, and I have concluded to get mar-
ried; and if you have no objections to
my uniting myself in marriage with Miss
Emma Hale, she would be my choice in
preference to any woman I have ever
seen.’ We were pleased with this choice
and not only consented to his marrying
her, but requested him to bring her home
with him and live with us.” Consequently
after their marriage Joseph and Emma
went to Manchester, New York State,
and liyed there that season.
	From the very first, persecution was
the lot of this family. Their friends
were few, but these few were true, they
being mostly members of his, Joseph’s,
own family.
	On April 6, 1830, the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints was organ-
zed with six members, Joseph Smith be-
ing the presiding elder. Emma Smith
being converted to the truth of the prin-
ciples advanced was baptized in June,
1830, but on account of persecutions by
mobs was not confirmed as a member un-
til August of the same year.
	From that time until the death of her
husband she honored him in his position
and assisted him in his great work of
ushering in the Gospel of the latter-days.
	In July, 1830, a revelation was given to
Emma Smith, through her husband, in
which the Lord told her His will in re-
gard to certain things. She was called
an Elect Lady, and her office was to

[Column 3]
comfort her husband in his afflictions,
with consoling words in the spirit of
meekness. To travel with him and be
his scribe, when he had no other; accord-
ing to the Spirit, she was to expound the
Scriptures and exhort the Church. She
was to make a selection of sacred hymns
to be used in the congregations of the
Saints, etc.
	This was a great honor to be thus re-
membered and instructed, and those who
were acquainted with her have testified
that during her husband’s lifetime she
lived up to the requirements of the reve-
lation. She was appointed, September
14, 1835, to make a selection of sacred
hymns, which duty she performed, by the
assistance of the Spirit of the Lord, to
the satisfaction of all, and up to the
present time they are rendered with feel-
ing and spirit in all the congregations of
the Saints.
	In 1833 the corner stones of the Kirt-
land Temple were laid and the dedication
of the building occurred March 27, 1836.
Sister Eliza R. Snow writes: “With very
little capital except brain, bone, and sin-
ews combined with trust in God, men,
women, and even children, worked with
their might; while the brethren labored in
their departments, the sisters were active-
ly engaged in boarding and clothing
workmen not otherwise provided for.”
Sister Emma in this trying time did her
part in this great work of rearing the first
temple built in this dispensation.
	The organization of the Female Relief
Society was commenced on the 17th of
March, 1842, and completed on the 24th,
with Emma H. Smith as President, Sarah
M. Cleveland and Elizabeth A. Whitney
Counselors, Eliza R. Snow, Secretary, and
Elvira A. Coules, Treasurer. This or-
ganization was for the relief of the poor,
the destitute, the widow and the orphan
and for the exercise of all benevolent
purposes. During the Missouri persecu-
tions the sisters of the Church had always
been ready to open their doors to the
weary traveler; to divide their scanty pit-
tance with the hungry, and from their
plundered and impoverished wardrobes
divide with the more needy and destitute;
but the opportunity to do this work in an
organized capacity had up to this time
been impossible and unthought of.
	As President of this Society, Sister
Emma was looked up to with respect and
reverence. They could follow her lead-
ership without fear. Her heart was filled
with goodness and generosity, not for a
hope of reward, but for true charity and
love. To all she was kind and consider-
ate and did everything in her power to
assist in the upbuilding of the society and
the attaining of the purpose of its organ-
zation. In the organization of the
branches of the Church and the trials and
persecutions, from within and without,
that her husband was subject to, they had
many homes among them we might
mention those at Harmony, Fayette,
Kirtland, Hiram, Far West and three
at Nauvoo. She was the mother of six


