[Column 1]
dels and people not professing any relig-
ion who will not touch these drinks sim-
ply because they found them to be hurt-
ful to the body. Some quit drinking them
by taking advice from their physicians
and when the Lord inspires his servants to
tell us they are not good, certainly we
ought to believe them.
	When you are at Poplar and you are
walking from East India Duke Road to-
wards Manchester Road you meet a num-
ber of people about 5 o’clock or a little
later coming from work. They are near-
ly all girls and women who work in fac-
tories. There is a match factory here and
a rope factory and others. We will not
tire our readers about all we see in Poplar,
we will leave Poplar and visit a niece in
West Kensington, West London, but be-
fore getting there we must not forget the
tube at Poplar and Subway our sister and
her husband took us through the tube or
subway. This is a very long tunnel dug
and built up with brick in arched shape
under the River Thames; you can hardly
believe when you are walking in these
tunnels that the river is flowing above
you; but I fancy some one is asking how
do you get down in these tunnels? Well
they let you down by an elevator, called
a lift in England; when you get to the
other end of the tunnel you find another
lift, this time you are lifted up instead of
being let down. Our brother, Thomas
Miskin lives here at Poplar, he and his
family were very entertaining, we spent
several evenings listening to their music
and singing.
	Well we will not go to Crisp Street
Market tonight; we will take a train or
underground train, which is run by elec-
tricity, they call these trains an American
invention and while we are visiting our
niece in West Kensington we go in this
underground train to Museum Station
then we go to the British Museum. It
will take too long to tell all we saw there
and we did not see half. We were three
days however at the reading room: you
have to get a recommend to go to the
reading room, and what a large room, so
spacious, so great, so complete, hundreds
go there and sit from day to day reading
and writing with no fear of being dis-
turbed. Another day we went to West
Kensington’s natural history Museum
where we saw all kinds of stuffed animals,
some wonderfully large, others very, very
small. We spent all day looking at many
curiosities, and then we did not see near
all there was. However another time we
went to Madame Trossou’s waxworks, how
real, how true like mankind this work of
art indicates nature. Then we go to the
big wheel, you can get a beautiful view of
the city in the wheel which is so large
you can scarcely feel the motion. Then
there are all the sights of Earl’s Court,
the diver with his diving suit, shows how
men can dive under the sea for lost treas-
ures then there is the flying machine
boats, I could not be persuaded to take a
ride up there, too high up in the world
for me; then the giddiness I would exper-

