[Column 2]
ship of a newly established newspaper at
Allahabad, capital of the northwest prov-
inces. This venture proving unsuccess-
ful, he came to America once more, and
passed the academic year of 1880-1 at
Harvard in a course of Sanscrit and Zend,
with Prof. C. R. Lausdman, receiving a
diploma from the university. At this
period he contributed to periodicals a
number of reviews, dealing with political,
social and economic philosophy. His atten-
tion was turned to fiction by his uncle,
Mr. Samuel Ward of New York City, to
whom he related some of his experiences
in the Orient, and who advised him to
make them the basis of a novel. “Mr.
Isaacs” appeared in 1882 and was imme-
diately successful. Mr. Crawford resided
in New York City and Boston until 1884,
after which he made his home at Sorren-
to, Italy, and devoted himself entirely to
literature. His other works are Dr.
Claudius, 1883, “To Leeward,” 1883, “A
Roman Singer,” 1884; “An American Po-
litician,” 1884; “Zoraster,” 1885. Tale of a
“Lonely Parish,” 1886; Saracinesa;” 1887,
“Paul Patoff;” 1887 “With the Immort-
als,” 1888; “Saut Iloas Mazio’s Cruficix,”
1887; “Saut Iliasia;” sequel to Lauvania,
1889; “Grufrustia;” 1889. Contributed a
national hymn to the Centennial, at
Philadelphia, 1887.
	It is said that while relating some of his
experiences during his travels, his uncle ad-
vised him to write them up, get a pub-
lisher and thus turn them to account.
Mr. Crawford having had his Harvard ex-
perience, was only in his early twenties,
when the financial disasters of 1873
brought destruction to his mother’s large
fortune, thus throwing him very unex-
pectedly upon his own resources. He
launched cut into journalism, and visited
the countries of Europe, though Italy
was his home as near as he possessed one.
He strayed to India and edited a news-
paper in the land of the Hindoos. He
took pleasure in its editorial columns to
blackguard theosophy and Madam Blav-
atsky, also the doctrine of reincarnation.
	This enterprise proving unsuccessful,
he came to New York, writing his first
novel at Chister Place, then a final trip
to Italy, where he has since resided near
Sorrento, with his wife and children.
	The writer of the Saracenisca, said he
wrote a book in twenty-five days, broken
only by Sundays, of 150,000 words, and
that in his own manuscript, without the
aid of even a stenographer. This would
horrify Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, and
many others who think six months about
the right time. He says he manages it
by living in the open air, roughing it
among the mountains, and going long
trips with the sailors in their smacks.
	These three books have a charming
story running through them, making com-
plete pictures of patrician life in modern
Rome, and the economic conditions which
surround it. Beginning with Saracinesca,
through Saut Iliaco, to the just completed
Don Orsino, they detail the history of
one of the noblest and most ancient
houses of Roman nobility, namely the
“Saracinescas.”
	Almost without thinking, at the close
of reading these works we find that we
have lived, with one or two exceptions,
among the nobility, in ducal palaces, on
grand estates, and have attended “First
nights,” at Embassy balls. Being a Catho-
lic in religion, Mr. Crawford was in sym-


