[Column 2]
ience when the boats go so swift, round
and round, up in the air. No thank you,
I will not accept a ride up there, I noticed
thercountenances of those who came
down was anything but pleasant, and I
never knew any one to take a second ride
up there, one was quite enough in a life-
time.
	Sunday comes and we take the train
and visit headquarters, 37 Farleigh Road,
Stoke Newnington, London. At the first
of the month we find quite a number of
noble young men gathered, perhaps to re-
port and receive instructions. Brother
Hoops, who is presiding, introduces us to
Brother Young; this young man is a
grandson of that great prophet who led
the Saints up to this Rocky Mountain
country, showed the people how to exist
and work in such a way that they would
not starve in this new country, taught
them how they could live happily with
the blessings of the Lord. We were also
introduced to one of President Joseph F.
Smith’s sons, who was there on a mission,
Brother Booth and many others whose
names I cannot recall just now. We
went with them to Finsbury Hall to thei
Sunday night meeting, where we had the
pleasure of hearing Sister Nannie Tout
sing, as also her sisters and father. The
Holy Spirit was there manifested. the
same Gospel preached as at home. May
the Lord bless these missionaries, I know
He will.
	Next day we run back to Poplar to con-
tinue with our genealogical work. When
Saturday comes our sister and her hus-
band take us to Crisp Street Market, here
are stands inside and outside, where you
can buy anything and everything to keep
house with and furnish a good table: fresh
fish, all kinds of fresh meats and mer-
chandise of every description, and if you
wish to go on further, you will find your-
self in Petticoat Lane. Most of the vend-
ers here are Jews and nearly all of them
women. People say they are tricky, and
if the story I heard is true, they must be,
These second hand goods very likely are
clothes pawned by people out of work;
some sell them for drink, others when
they gamble too heavy are obliged to part
with these things to save themselves from
starving or to pay their rent.
	Well we are getting ready to return
home hunting through Woolwich and
Greenwich for genealogy, also visiting the
Miskins at 1100, who, though not closely
related, treated us very kindly.
	I believe the time is coming when we
as a people will be better understood and
therefore will be treated better; but I sup-
pose there will always be misunderstand-
ings even amongst ourselves. I will just
mention a little instance. A sister went
to Salt Lake to do work in the temple
and visit relatives, and happened to ex-
press a wish to see an Elder and his wife,
whom she had known before coming to
the mountains, another sister volunteered
to drive her up to see these friends. But
time passed and when she was near ready
to return home she reminded the sister of

[Column 3]
her promise, when a niece exclaimed,
“You people out in the world fall in love
with our Elders sometimes.” She was
rather taken back at this remark, and
thought perhaps her motive was misunder-
stood, so she returned home without tak-
ing this visit to the lady missionary to
whom she had felt drawn towards for her
lady-like ways, her dignified appearance,
