[Column 2]
“a sociable circle” around the fireside,
and this as a feature of hospitality be-
came one of her fixed habits as stated by
her biographer.
	One of the pleasant Nantucket customs
was “the veal feast” which always fol-
lowed the killing of a calf. There was a
family reunion of two days, on the first of
which the husband’s relatives and on the
second the wife’s were invited to the
feast; while to those who were unable to
come a portion of all the good things
was carried in dishes wrapped in large
napkins which had been provided for such
occasions as part of the bridal outfit.
This was only one of the many memories
of her childhood which Lucretia carried
away with her when she was twelve years
old and the family moved to Boston. She
always cherished traditions of the island,
and “Nantucket way” was household
law.
	At the age of thirteen she and a
younger sister were sent to a Friends
boarding school at Nine Partners, New
York. In Nantucket there had been but
two churches, the Presbyterian and the
Quaker, and to the latter an ancestress
of Lucretia had been converted in 1701
and had been a “mighty instrument” to
bring others to the faith. The Coffins
showed their fidelity to their principles
when they sent two of their little ones
of such tender years a distance from
which they could not return under two
years, even for a visit. The biographer
relates that communication was so dif-
ficult in those days that a baby sister
grew to be three months old before the
little exiles knew of its existence.
	James Mott was a teacher on the boys’
side of the house, but as the boy and girl
pupils were not allowed to meet or to
speak to each other unless they were
near relatives, it was only while visit-
ing his sister Sarah that Lucretia be-
came acquainted with her future hus-
band.
	Lucretia was so admirable a pupil that
she was made assistant teacher when she
was 15, at 16 was a regular teacher, with
the full salary of $100 a year and board.
	It was at this time, to quote her own
words, “that the unequal condition of
women impressed my mind. Learning
that the charge for the tuition of girls
was the same as that for boys and that
when they became teachers women re-
ceived only half as much for their ser-
vices, the injustice of this distinction was
so apparent that I early resolved to claim
for myself all that an impartial Creator
had bestowed.”
	While fellow teachers James Mott and
Lucretia became attached to each other
and when Lucretia joined her father in
Philadelphia, whither Mr. Coffin had
moved in 1809 to take charge of a large
business, James soon followed. Having
obtained a position in the business, he
and Lucretia concluded to “pass meet-
ing.” The first step was to obtain the
written consent of the parents, for this
had to be submitted to both the men’s
meeting and the women’s meeting, in
connection with the proposals of mar-
riage which had to be signed by both
parties. Two Friends were appointed to
inquire into the man’s “clearness for mar-
riage, and the same for the woman. At
the second monthly meeting the parties
were required to be present at their re-
spective meetings, and if the committees

[Column 3]
reported that they found no obstacle to
the marriage, the young people were at
liberty to proceed. Accordingly, on April
4, 1811, Lucretia Coffin and James Mott
were married “with a gravity and weight
becoming the occasion.” At this time
Lucretia, short, slight, dark and vivacious,
was just turned 18, while James, tall,
sandy-haired, shy and serious, was 23.
	The next six years brought financial
vicissitudes. in which Lucretia Mott
helped a little in shopkeeping and later
with her cousin, Rebecca Bunker, built a
private school.
	At 25 years of age Mrs. Mott first spoke
in public by offering a prayer, but such
were her gifts that she soon became
an “acknowledged minister.” This was
before the division among the Quakers
into orthodox and Hicksite, and when she
felt compelled to join the latter it brought
her “disownment” and many trials and
persecutions.
	At about the same time the views of
James and Lucretia Mott on the slavery
question led them to agree, that it was
wrong to in any way participate in the
profits of slave labor, and Mr. Mott ac-
cordingly gave up his profitable cotton
commission business. James was a ready
writer and from his admirable letters to
his parents and others, one may note not
only the facts in their mutual lives, but
the gradual growth in their mutual views.
Their granddaughter says that what either
wrote or said was meant for both, for
their agreement was almost perfect; each
seemed the other’s complement. The
contrast was very great between Mr.
Mott’s quiet ways and his wife’s anima-
tion. She liked sometimes to rally him
a little on his taciturnity. On one occa-
sion she entered a room where he and his
brother Richard, a counterpart of him-
self, were sitting in perfect silence. Mrs.
Mott said, ‘I thought you must both be
here, it was so still.”
	It was a great innovation in the estab-
lished custom of woman’s silence when
Mrs. Mott took part in the historic con-
vention when the American Anti-Slavery
Society was organized in 1833. Thomas
Whitson, writing of this occasion, said:
	“The other speaker was a woman. I
had never before heard a woman speak
at a public meeting. She said but a few
words, but these were spoken so modest-
ly, in such sweet tones, yet so decisively,
that no one could fail to be pleased.”
	There were also in this meeting Lydia
White, Esther Moore and Sydney and
Ann Lewis, but the women were not rec-
ognized as members of the convention
and did not sign the declaration of prin-
ciples adopted. Mrs. Mott made some
suggestions which were well received, one
of which was that the two last words in
this sentence, “We may be personally
defeated, but our principles can never be,”
should be dropped, which added greatly
to the strength of the sentence. The
Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Socie-
ty was formed almost immediately after
the American Society, with Esther Moore
as president. Lucretia Mott was its
president during most of its existence.
There were many stormy scenes and
some times meetings were broken up by
rioters opposed to abolition.
		(To be Continued.)
				Woman’s Journal,
	Boston, Mass.


