[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Clarissa Smith Williams and Alice L. Reynolds | Author: Mary E. Connelly]

Clarissa Smith Williams Mary E. Connelly Clarissa Smith Williams is numbered among those who are blest in being well born. Her mother, Susan E. West, is a woman of sterling qualities, honest, faithful, physically strong, mentally awake, and spiritually alert. Her father, President George A. Smith, a pioneer of 1847, was a leader among his people, intelligent, kindly, sincere. With such parentage the daughter thus started life with desirable characteristics. She was born April 21, 1859, in the Historian's office in Salt Lake City, then the home of her parents. She had a happy childhood, for the spirit of love and peace reigned in her home. She loved to read and early evidenced a keen delight in study. She was given the best education the schools of the territory afforded. When fourteen she served as a pupil teacher in the old Social Hall, taught by Mary E. Cook. That same year the family moved to the building located on the southwest corner of Second West and First North, later known as the knitting factory. There was a very large room in this house; here Clarissa when only fifteen organized and conducted a private school. She closed her school the following year in order that she might take advantage of the Normal Course offered: by the University of Utah. She was a member of the first Normal Class, and was graduated in 1875 from that institution. After leaving her alma mater she taught in the schools of Parowan, Taylorsville, and Salt Lake City. W. N. Williams was attracted to Miss Smith the first time he saw her. His admiration grew as he looked at her from a distance and increased rapidly, when after a long period of waiting he had the joy of meeting and courting her. One day between 11 and 12 o'clock Brother Williams was called and set apart to go on a mission and was instructed to be ready to leave for his field of labor the following morning. That night, on the 17th of July, 1877, when the groom was twenty-seven years old, Clar- 
 issa Williams became his bride, in the Seventeenth ward. She continued teaching while her husband was in the mission field. This has been an ideally lovely marriage. The two have always been lovers and their devotion and appreciation for each other have ripened and grown even stronger with the years. Eleven children have blessed their union, seven of whom are now living. In addition to her children Sister Williams has eight grandsons and one granddaughter. Sister 'Williams has been a remarkably successful mother, always ruling by love. Hospitality has been a characteristic of the home. Well-known people from other lands and climes as' well as those of their home city have enjoyed the good-will and generosity that has ever been extended to their guests. It has been said that leaders are born and not made. Clarissa Smith gave evidence early of leadership. As a girl she was a leader among her associates. Her friends tell with what queenly dignity she took the part of leading lady in dramas of those days. From ther girlhood she was active and faithful in Sunday School and Primary. When sixteen she began her labors in the Relief Society as assistant visiting teacher. Later she served as secretary and president of the Seventeenth ward Relief Society. She served as assistant secretary of the old Salt Lake stake and when it was divided she became its president. On November 17, 1901, she was appointed treasurer and member of the Board of Directors of the general Relief Society. At the General Conference of the Church, April, 1911, she was sustained as First Counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells, and on April 2, 1921, she became the President of the organization.; She came to this high position well fitted to preside. She knew from ward, stake and general work the scope and needs of the Relief Society; she saw wherein it was strong and where it needed strengthening. Then, too, she brought with her the qualifications of presidency: well educated, progressive, of clear comprehension, strong, willing to consider both sides of questions, anxious and able to give all the time necessary for carrying on the work entrusted to her charge. Thus equipped it is no wonder that the organization has made rapid headway under her direction. On February 7, 1923, she was sustained as editor of the Relief Society Magazine. _ Sister Williams has ever been interested in women's work. She has attended sessions of the National Council of Women in New Orleans, and Toledo, Ohio. In May, 1914, she went to the International Congress of Women in Rome, Italy, being one of nine delegates from the United States to that conference. At the close of its two weeks sessions she and her husband toured Italy, CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS 165 Switzerland, France, Germany, England, and Wales. She is a charter member of the Daughters of the Pioneers and served as the first historian of that body. She is an active member of the Daughters of the Revolution and has been treasurer and regent. She is also a member of the Author's Club and the Friendship Circle. During the war, Mrs. Williams was a member of the executive committee of the State Council: of Defense, and chairman of Women's Work of the Council. Sister Williams has been a beautiful homemaker. She is equable in disposition and prosperity changes her not at all. She is adaptable to any condition and serenely meets all problems. Generous, free, kind, considerate, poised, refined, cultured—these qualities make her admired and loved wherever she goes. She has been a dutiful daughter, a kind, helpful, considerate, sweet, loving, devoted wife and mother. As a public worker she has even been efficient, willing and faithful. Fortunate are they who know her and can call her friend; blessed are they who work under her guidance!