[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: SALT LAKE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society met in the As-
sembly Hall, September 7th, at 10 a. m.,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Singing,
“Let us pray, gladly pray.” Prayer by J.
S. Woolley. Song, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Present on the stand were Sisters M. I.
Horne, Annie T. Hyde, Clara C. Cannon,
B. W. Smith, S. J. Cannon, Maria Wilcox
and Julia C. Howe.
	Out of the 30 branches of the Relief
Society, 28 were represented. The statis-
tical and financial reports were read. The
society reports and remarks concerning
business matters were made by Counselor
Annie T. Hyde and Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams, treasurer for the Woman’s Building.
	President Horne addressed the society.
Said there should be a representative from
the presidency of each branch of the society

[Column 2]
at all our conferences; that we should be
faithful and alive in attending to our duties,
and not allow worldly pleasure to induce us
to neglect weightier matters. Told the
sisters to store wheat, and not keep the
money to buy it on hand.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke on the law of
tithing and on honesty.
	The congregation sang “How firm a
foundation.”
	Sister S. J. Cannon spoke of the noble
qualities of Sister Zina D. H. Young. Felt
we should treasure up her counsel and ad-
vice. Enlarged on the blessings of the Re-
lief Society; in the world they were appre-
ciated by the missionaries.
	Sister Maria W. Wilcox spoke upon the
necessity of working for our dead.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn.
	Sister C. S. Williams spoke a few mo-
ments on the cultivation of love and kind-
ness in our homes and elsewhere.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 o’clock. Sing 
ing. “We thank Thee, O God, for a proph-
et.” Benediction by Julia C. Howe.
	Afternoon session of the R. S. conference
opened by the Temple choir singing
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.” Pray-
er by Clara C. Cannon. The Temple choir
quartette sang “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded. Minutes of last conference read
and approved. The address delivered to
the General Society by President Snow, at
Saltair, was read by Counselor Annie T.
Hyde.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt she was ad-
dressing her friends, the members of the
Relief Society. She felt we were encour-
aged by our brethren. Thought that our
works would be more appreciated in the
future. Spoke of blessings accrueing from
tithe paying. Felt the Woman’s Building
will be a credit to us, and our children will
appreciate our efforts in this regard. Knew
that women active in the Relief Society
made better wives and mothers. Felt we
should sustain each other by our prayers.
	Sister Hyde felt President Snow’s ad-
vice is priceless to us, it gives us much en-
couragement. Felt there were many young
women who would come to the meetings if
they were invited. Felt we should grow in
our organization. Spoke of the death of
Sister Zina D. H. Young, and her teach-
ings of love and charity to the sisters;
also of the attempted assassination of
President McKinley, and how secret organ-
izations were growing among our people,
felt it would take all the strength that we
can get to fight against the power of the
adversary. Exhorted all to purify them-
selves and do as they would wish to be
done by.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon felt that
much that was beneficial had been dwelt
upon. She would try and exert herself to
attend more faithfully to her duties. If we
did we would be stronger mentally and
physically. Said school ourselves, speak
no evil, do good to all. As sisters of the
society we should visit the new comers,
those who have joined the Church. Was
thankful we know we have the true Gos-
pel.
	Sister Hull sang a solo, accompanied by
the Temple choir.
	Sister R. R. Grant said it should be a
pleasure to bear a testimony of the Gospel
emanating from God. Spoke of her son,
Apostle Grant, and his experience in Japan.
We are not dependent upon any one for a
knowledge of the Gospel, if we keep His


[column 1]
commandments. Referred to the privileges
of the young people, thought it seemed as
if peace were being taken from the earth.
The trials of the Saints prepare them to
bear greater ones. Felt that no people
were so blessed as we are, we have every-
thing to encourage us to faithfulness and
diligence.
	President B. W. Smith felt the loss of
Sister Zina, thought we should appreciate
President Horne and listen to her counsel.
"It will only be a few days till we pass on,
so be happy, do not worry about our food
or clothing.” Alluded to the pleasure of
Temple work. Said she had worked in the
Temple in Nauvoo, had received her en-
dowments there when the Prophet Joseph
was living.
	President S. J. Cannon said, “We must
each do our work; we should meet together
and get instruction to do the work in our
own wards and our homes. There are
30,000 women in our society and much
good can be accomplished by them. Felt
it was very necessary to instruct our boys
for missionary labors.
	The choir and quartette sang “Softly
beams the sacred dawing.” 
	Julia S. Woolley spoke a few moments
on an increase of faith.
	President Horne instructed the presidents
to look after their poor, as winter
was now approaching. Be wise and not
make paupers of our poor. Urged the sis-
ters to interest themselves in Temple work
said she had also worked in the Nau-
voo Temple. Felt the Lord always
blesses us in our labors. Our faith should
be increased in healing the sick.
	Conference adjourned till December.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Elder
C. J. Thomas.
					J. S. Wolley, Sec.

