[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: A STORY OF UNREQUITED LOVE. | Author: Unknown]

A STORY OF UNREQUITED LOVE.
	It was in the early summer, long, long
ago, when life was in its springtime; each
day glorious and sunny, slowly went out
in a sea of gold at the western gate.
	Then it was that this story of unrequited
love saddened the hearts of the actors,
darkened nature’s fair prospect, and brought
into it a quiver of pain, that the long years
have failed to obliterate.
	This lover was fair to look upon. Rather
above the medium height, with brown hair
and blue eyes, out of which a pleading
look often met your own. Features clear-
cut, with aquline nose, a broad forehead
softened by the slight wave of the hair.
The expression of the mouth was some-
what sad, his manner quiet and very re-
tiring. He would be noticed anywhere,
and one would glance at him the second
time.
	There was a cause for this sadness and
lack of companionship, that made him
different to others of his age.
	He spoke of his life; of the dear old
father and mother he had left on Erin’s
Green Isle; of his childhood and his ram-
bles in the fields when primroses were in
bloom. He was not of that land, but of

[Column 2]
Scotch descent, his forefathers having fled
to Ireland for peace during the turbulent
times that were such a bane to Scotland.
	He was the youngest of the family, had
been the household pet. But when the
older brother, who had come over to
America, had gathered some wealth, he
sent the means to the home he still loved
fondly, asking his younger brother to
come to him. He offered to give him a
start in the world and desired his loving
companionship. Though tender chords
were to be severed and eyes bedimmed with
tears, he decided to leave the home of his
childhood, and those who loved him more
than life, and go to his brother.
	With a heart sad, yet hopeful, he set sail
for the fair land of America. It was
not in those days as now. Crossing the
mighty deep consumed weeks, and months
were consumed in the journey that is now
counted by a few days.
	But all went well, and in safety he
reached the land where years before his
brother had found a home. From the
Atlantic coast he must travel by rail many
miles before he reached his brother. At
last he arrived. Going to the address sent
him, heart beating with love and hungry
for the warm embrace he knew awaited
him, he knocked at the door.
	A strange face greeted him, and on ask-
ing for his brother he was told that two
weeks before he was laid in his grave.
Stunned, he stood gazing at the one who
imparted this terrible intelligence.
	He was invited to enter; was shown into
his brother’s room and bade welcome. As
in a dream, from which he thought he
must surely awaken and find it but the
fancy of a troubled brain, he listened to the
recital of the death of that dear brother.
	How he had longed to see him, and de-
sired with the deepest desire to live until
he should come.
	But the angel Azriel had called, and in
obedience to the summons, his spirit had
fled from its prison house. Everything
that he had accumulated through years of
toil and privation, storing up with a loving
hand to keep those across the sea, he had
given to this, his youngest brother. All
this he could not realize, but his heart
cried for love; the love of which he had
dreamed, and the happy meeting that the
waves of the sea had whispered about in
their soft ripples, when the moonlight on its
bosom made it look transparent even as
glass. He could hear his brother’s voice in
the winds that played at evening, kissing
his cheek and fanning his brow.
	Was this the end? A stranger in a
strange land, a sense of loneliness utterly
indescribable filled his heart.
	But life must be lived, and to a noble
nature it must be lived well. So gradually
he picked up the threads that had been
severed and began to take interest in the
business that his brother had bequeathed
him.
	Over the sea he had sent the sad story,
that would bring sorrow to the dear ones
in the old home there, weakening the frail
moorings still more that held them in life.

[Column 3]
	The heart of youth is elastic, and early
sorrows grow dimmer and dimmer as time
passes on.
	The springtime brought buds of promise,
that partly healed the wounded heart.
Love, the Queen of all the earth, entered
and enthroned herself, rearing an altar
where roses bloomed in luxuriance and the
flowers of Paradise abounded.
	This tender love dream filled the whole
world with divine radiance. That he
would not be loved in return never entered
his mind. He was sure that love like his
must bring a like heavenly sympathy.
	So he told her of the home over the sea;
the fond mother waiting there to welcome
his bride and bestow the kiss of love on the
one he had so vividly painted as the very
perfection of modest and pure maidenhood.
He daily built castles in the air, so entranc-
ingly beautiful, but without foundation; so
airy and fairy, but without occupant.
	“How glad she will be to see my darl-
ing,” he often said when whiling away the
time in fond anticipations of the happy re-
turn over the wide, blue sea, with love as
the beacon light.
	He had asked her father if he might pay
his addresses, and received permission, but
her he had never asked. So the days went
by, dreams of love for him, uneasiness and
sadness for her, until the long decided time
came and the word had to be spoken that
fell like a blow, quenching forever the love
light in those thoughtful eyes.
	Oh, why was he so blind? Why could
he not understand that her manner was
only friendly, not even free from restraint?
How could he love on and the fire of love
be fed when naught but dust and ashes
were heaped on the hearth?
	It was when the summer days were
drawing to a close and autumn, with her
faint coloring of crimson and gold, made
the woods so inviting.
	“Cannot love me?” faltered the ashy
lips, “not be my wife? Then there is
another,” he said.
	“Yes, there is another. You have often
heard his name mentioned. He will come
tonight.”
	Anger flashed from his eyes; bitter words
and threats that should have remained for-
ever unuttered, were foilowed by a cold
good evening, and he was gone.
	All was over. In one heart love was
dead, in the other hope was living and
whispering of a day when love would have
a rosy awakening. Yet regret and anguish
for the pain caused to one esteemed as a
dear friend, brought sorrow.
	Years passed on, but the actors in that
scene had never met.
	Often she had thought of him, remem-
bered many little acts of loving kindness,
and wondered if he were happy. A
woman always thinks gently of one who
has been a lover, and though the years be
long that intervene, there is a thrill of inter-
est in him, mingled with pity and pain.
	She had been a bride, then a mother, be-
fore fate brought their two lives in touch
again. It was at a grand ball given by the
English residents of the city where they


[column 1]
lived. Carriage after carriage drove up,
bringing fair maidens daintily dressed,
and matrons richly attired, blazing with
jewels, to the festive scene. Stepping
lightly over the carpet, they enter the
spacious hall accompanied by beau or 
spouse.
	All is excitement; scarcely a thought,yet,
as to who was there, in that vast assemblage
Strains of music are wafted from unseen
players, and the dancers glide over the 
polished floor.
	Who is that fine looking stranger advanc-
cing? Is it he? No, it cannot be. A
mist arises before her eyes; her heart stands 
still.
	"We met, 'twas in a crowd,
	And I thought he would shun me,
	He came, I could not breathe,
	For his eye was upon me.
	He spoke, his words were cold,
	But his tone was unaltered,
	I knew how much he felt,
	For his deep-toned voice faltered.
	He called me by my name,
	As the bride of another."

She looked up trembling. He asked for
a dance.
	"My husband," she faltered.
	"I have your husband's permission," he
said.
	Deferentially prottering his arm, she
leaned upon him as in former days.
	Through the crowd they wended their 
way.
	"Let us promenade," he said, entering
the hall. "I want to talk to you." Look-
ing down upon her, "You have made just
the woman I thought you would," he 
said. "I am not disappointed in you; and
how old is the little one?"
	"A little over a year."
	He spoke kindly now, and fear left the
heart of his companion. He talked on of
things around them, then of the past.
	"I am sorry," he said, "for the unkind
words I spoke, you were not to blame; but
should he ever be unkind to you," clinch-
ing his hand. "Well," he continued, "I 
want you to promise me, should you ever
need a friend and I am anywhere in the
world, you will let me be that friend.
Promise me, will you call on me? I shall
never marry. I loved once, and it was for-
ever, for me there is none henceforth. Will 
you promise?"
	"Yes," was the faint response. "But,
O, you will love again some day; a fair
young girl will love you for your good-
ness."
	"No," he said, "I shall never marry.
Never will I see one like you, never one
that I can love. Thank you for the
promise. You will never be without a
friend while I live. I would come to you
over land or sea. Let us go in to dance."
	To the strains of a dreamy waltz they
gracefully kept time. Among the light
and gay they seemed as others. Stately
among the young and giddy, they moved
among the dancers, his arm clasped lightly
around her. It was the last time, yet no
one but themselves knew that this was a
meeting and a parting. The music almost
sobbed as it died away, and for a moment a
stillness fell around.
	Bending low over her hand, "Good bye,"
he said, and was gone.
	Sadness unutterable filled her heart as
she watched him until he was lost among
the throng. Thankful she was to God for
his kind words and thoughts, for his gentle
demeanor: In her eyes tears welled up for

[Column 2]
his wrecked life, and a prayer that a loving
wife might some day reign in his heart and
home, making the world bright and happy
for him.
	Years brought changes in her life. Far 
away from youthful scenes her lot had
been cast. Many children had come to her
home, but she had never wanted that
friend. No tidings of him had ever come
from the home far away. They were as
widely separated as tho' the sea rolled be-
tween them.
	Sorrows came to her, as they do to most
of us. Then came dark days, and the
promise so solemnly given clamored for ful-
fillment. But where was he? Still in the
land of the living? His fate was uncertain;
but wherever he might be, she is thankful
that they parted friends; friends they could
be forever.
	At last, when her hair was silvered with
the dust of time and grandchildren played
around her knee, a schoolmate of that long
ago came to see her, bringing news that he
was dead, only a year before.
	"Did he ever marry?" she asks.
	"No, but his sister came to him and
kept house for him. He left her all his
wealth."
	He had kept his word. The light and 
music of the ballroom rushes before her.
The odor of flowers and waving of fans and
the words, "I shall never marry, I loved
once and it was forever," ring out as
though they were just spoken.
	"You know the reason why," the friend
continued. The years roll back like a
scroll, as a panorama the scenes are por-
trayed. Again he clasps her hand as he
says, "Good bye, remember," when he 
passed out of her life forever.

	The loss, the cross, the pain, the tear,
		Gone with the Springtime's breath;
	Naught but peace can enter here,
		The vale of silent Death.
	'Tis not in vain we suffer so,
		The stream is purified;
	The torrents smoothly glide below,
		That lash the moutain side.
	
	And strength is born in throes of pain,
		Eyes clearly see that weep;
	The heart bowed down will rise again,
		We plant before we reap.
	
	So God's decrees, one endless round,
		We'll find are wise and best;
	No stitches dropped, not thread unwound,
		The woof withstands the test. 
