[Vol24 | April 1937 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Olive S. Felt]

By Olive S. Felt
THE question was somewhat different from that to which a girl usually says "yes," but few swains ever toiled longer or harder nor were they more deserving of that word. It happened this way: When we bought our home four years ago there was an apple tree in the northwest corner of our back yard. It meant well, but it was overdoing things. It was losing all regard for anything in its way. One branch was interfering with a tall and beautiful arbor vitae tree, another limb was crushing down a dividing rose fence; and still another was disregarding all propriety of the art of staying "in your own back yard." I registered these faults when we moved in, but it being winter, I decided to wait and give the tree a chance to redeem itself during the green season. The vision of an apple tree in full bloom softened me somewhat, especially when that vision ripened into heaps of luscious apples. That would be something on a city lot. But imagine my disappointment the next spring when only four or five branches bloomed. I told my husband it was a bit out of place and should be taken out. He said, "No, it is good shade and covers the bareness of that corner." I said no more, for our back yard did give us comparative privacy.
THE next spring I felt repaid for sparing its life. It bloomed forth in all the glory that only an apple tree can. I anticipated gathering in shelves of golden apples. But to my horror, before the summer was over, there was not an apple left upon that tree. They had fallen, fallen, fallen, and lay in a yellow, wormy, rotting mass upon the ground. And they had utter disregard as to where they fell. In the neighbors' yards, among the flowers, and on the lawn; but when one had the audacity to seek out my head as a place to light, well—. I looked over that rotting mess, and resolved that it should never happen again. I spoke in this strain to my husband who merely repeated what he had said before.
THE winter cooled me off a bit, and by spring I thought little more about it. I was busy on the front yard. Then one day it happened! A man came to help with odd jobs and while I was directing him my eyes fell upon that tree. Without the least thought of consequence I said, "First, I'd like you to take out that apple tree." The telephone called me back into the house and it was half an hour before I went out again. Horror! Was that our back yard? That place with that gaping, open corner? The whole neighborhood seemed to be gazing and grinning through it. My heart sank. Could one tree make such a difference? I was heart sick. Couldn't it be planted again? I was in agony. It would take years to grow a tree in its place. The man saw what I saw and said, "I wondered if you'd like it." I walked toward all that fallen majesty and there appeared the face of my neighbor on the west. "I'm so glad you have cut it down," she said, "it was a bother in driving our car in and out of the garage, and it was ruining the fence." I directed the man to dispose of the tree and went back into the house. I dreaded my husband's homecoming. What could I say? I tried to build up a line of defense, but it was useless. I had none. So I decided to be very busy. Being busy might help me to bear the onslaught when it came. But it didn't come. In its place was stony silence. I ventured a few questions on the weather and his sick patients, but the words froze in mid-air. I really had not taken his "no" seriously. It had been given rather casually, I thought. Now I could see through its lightness. He had not taken me seriously. He had given me credit for better sense.
I HAD to do something, but what? A few days passed. Then with seeming nonchalance I asked him what he thought would look well in that corner. No help! Did he think this or that tree would grow there? Still no help! Finally, in desperation, I went to our gardener. Oh blessed relief! "A pergola covered with silver lace vine will do it," he said. "A flat top pergola. My budget allowed for very little over necessities. Should I hire a man to come and do it? No, I would do it myself. I made my plans and went to work.