VOL. 16.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1887.			No. 12.


ECHOES OF THE PAST.

		BY FANNIE HOLDEN FOWLER.

	How strangely sweet the airs of old
	Their melody the heart doth hold
	Through all the past and teeming years,
	Too weird for mirth, too sad for tears !
	Their echoes linger like a spell
	Where dreamy thoughts are wont to dwell,
	Aud through the lapse of time and tide
	Unfold the doors of Memory wide.

	Sweet friends, who reached the golden shore
	Ere life grew stale,—the songs of yore
	Come floating from your starlit heights,
	As sweet as in those summer nights
	When, in the life of long ago,
	Your music trembled to and fro,
	Swaying the soft and limpid air,
	As light as love, as pure as prayer.

	Now Fancy with her magic light
	Traces each form in memory bright;
	And father, brother, child and friend
	Upon my footsteps still attend.
	I see the crown of silvery hair,
	The placid smile he used to wear;
	I hear the welcome of that day
	Of olden time, long passed away,
	The merry songs and pastimes sweet
	Of childish glee I used to greet;
	Till life seems young, and all things glow
	In sunlight of the long ago.
						—Woman’s Journal.


WILLIE AND JOSEPH. F.

I knew the first, a boy so bright and pure,
	So gentle and affectionate and good,
High in the angel’s records, I am sure,
	When his release was sent, he must have stood.

The little fellow when he was but three,
	Stoutly refused on Fast-day morn, to eat;
For, if his father fasted, so must he—
	And off to meeting went, firm, yet so sweet!

But Willie died, while yet a little child,
	Although he seemed so rosy, well and strong;
Ah! friends, be not by outward signs beguiled—
	The best and noblest oft remain not long.

Then, as a recompense, another son,
	Our Father gave, with tender, loving grace;
A child "peculiar" from his birth, and one
	They felt could almost fill the vacant place.

The parents, fond and hopeful, full of joy,
	That God remembered them, and heard them pray,
The name of "Joseph F," gave this dear boy,
	For the brave Prophet Exile of to-day.

Oh, Saints of God! we are so very slow,
	To understand our Father’s wise decrees;
It is not meet all should to manhood grow,
	Behind the vail there’s work for such as these.

Each has his part assigned, each knows his place,
	They come to earth, their bodies thus secure,
Return, and there before the Father's face,
	They minister in work sublime and pure.

Thus, friends beloved, your Joseph came and went,
	And you shall know, in God’s own time and way,
For what peculiar mission he was sent—
	Be faithful, and await the blissful day.
									LULA.


A VISIT TO THE NORTH.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	I have been visiting my old home in the
North this summer; the dear old home I left
just ten years ago with my parents, who were
seeking a better home in the far South.
	And this was my first sorrow, to leave my
childhood’s home, with its beautiful surround-
ings, its green hills, its cool, delightful canons,
its pure, warbling streams, with its waving wil-
lows on their banks, its secluded pastures;
where we hunted the wild strawberry or
plucked the fragrant wild rose. All these I
loved with a love that was a part of my life,and
to leave them, with all the dear companions
and associates of my girlhood, seemed more
than I could bear. But the troubles of youth
are soon forgotten; and although our route for
the greater part was over mountains, across
deserts and through sand and dust, yet each
succeeding day brought something new and in-
teresting. Peace and happiness came in the
new home, but the level, desert plains of Ari-
zona could never take the place, in my heart,
of the mountains, hills and canons I loved so
well; and the mild winter weather could not
take the place of the beautiful snow, the merry
sleigh-rides by moonlight, and the many
pleasures incident to a cold climate.
	But this was not what I started to tell. It
was of my visit home after an absence of ten
years. And, oh! how I enjoyed it—the same
old hills, canons, creeks and nooks, all so famil-
iar’ to me. I visited the dear old saw-mill,
around which so many happy memories cling,
almost the same as when I saw it last, with its
pine logs and piles of sweet-scented lumber.
The town itself is much changed. I see im-
provement on every hand. Comfortable, and
even luxurious homes are taking the place of
the double log house of earlier days. And the
old schoolmates—the boys and girls that were
the belles and beaux of our quiet little village
ten years ago—death has entered our ranks
and taken three of the best and dearest girl
friends; several have found homes in the far,
sunny south, others have moved to various
points and but few remain. The happy, care-
less boys, that were then just merging into
manhood—some have filled and others are fill-
ing honorable missions, and are faithful workers
in the kingdom of our God; while some of
both sexes have strayed from the Gospel paths
and have found sorrow and discontent. I visited
with many dear friends, but all seem changed,
and as I view these many changes that have
taken place, I feel like a second Rip Van Win-
kle, and that I alone am the same. But as I
look at my two sturdy boys and my sweet baby
girl, I realize that there is a great difference
between 17 and 27, and that I, too, am changed.
And as I sit musing in the twilight over the
various fortunes of the friends of my early
youth, some happy, some so very sad, I kneel
and thank my God that my feet have not been
permitted to stray from the sheltering folds of
the Gospel, and that my barque has anchored
in a haven of rest.
							RACHEL.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 29, 1887.


VISIT TO THE POET WHITTIER

	A hundred times or more since my return
from my visit to New England in the winter

[column 2]
﻿of 1885-86, I have thought that I would write
up my visit to the great American Quaker
Poet, John G. Whittier; always waiting for a
time when I could have more leisure or a bet-
ter opportunity out in the green fields, or by
the winter fireside; but to one whose busy life
is all hurry, and every hour occupied, no such
time seems to come. However, I will make an
attempt at telling the facts.
	It was a cold day in midwinter, and the
snow lay very heavy upon the ground. I had
been in Boston then several days, had visited
some of the most noted public places, and
hunted up cousins whom I had never seen be-
fore, and had called at the office of the
Woman's Journal and The Watchman, con-
versed with the editors about general matters,
and about Utah matters in particular, had
seen a number of notable people, and had
dined, by invitation, with Lucy Stone, certainly
one of the greatest women in America, where
I also met her bright, intellectual and gifted
daughter, Alice Stone Blackwell, and began
to think of going up into the country again to
finish my visit with brothers and sisters and
old school friends, but before going back to the
beautiful Connecticutt Valley I was determined
to see one or two people in whom I had a
special interest. The most important of these
was the illustrious Poet, Whittier, whom I had
quoted from a child, and whom all New Eng-
land people are so proud to claim as one of
their own. I had been invited by his cousins,
who had twice called upon me in Salt Lake, to
come to Oak Knoll in Danvers, and they
had promised to introduce me to Mr. Whittier,
and also to Elizabeth Stuart Phelps.
	And as we do in the childrens’ stories, I will
repeat again, it was a cold day in midwinter,
but I wrapped up well, and was soon at the
station, where I took the train on the Old
Colony Road for Danvers. Arrived at the
depot about noon, and drove to an old-time
hotel and dined Ordered a horse and sleigh,
as I learned it was some little distance to Oak
Knoll, and in a few minutes we drove up the
steep hill to the new and stately residence very
properly called Oak Knoll. It looked very
grand and imposing, and in Summer or Autumn
the grounds and surroundings must be all one’s
fancy could paint for a poet’s home. The fine
situation of the house on the brow of the hill,
the magnificent old trees, the architecture of
the handsome modern building, all tend to
make the whole a picture of beauty, and give
an impression of elegance and grandeur.
	As we drove close to the place I noticed a
woman of stately figure upon the the piazza
facing the drive; she came forward immediately
and soon recognized me, without explanation.
She knew I wanted to see her cousin, the poet.
and said, “How sorry I am, Mrs. W---------, but
he is not here; he has gone to Amesbury on
business, though we expect him home soon.” I
was most kindly and hospitably welcomed, my
wraps taken off, and the conveyance sent away;
meantime I was ushered into a large and elegant 
parlor, where a handsome painting of the poet
when a young man, adorned the space above
the mantel. It was a large and very interest-
ing portrait, and so life-like that one could
easily imagine he was about to speak. There
were many beautiful ornaments and some ex-
quisite statuary in the room, and it presented,
altogether, the attractive appearance of a
most artistically furnished draw-ing-room.
Another of the cousins came in almost


as soon as I reached the parlor, but the
eldest was reclining on a sofa in the adjoining
parlor, where a bright wood fire was burning
on the hearth; that room, too, seemed the per-
fection of elegance in its furnishings; the lady
rose from the sofa almost immediately, and
came to join in the conversation, which, as a
natural consequence, was of Utah and the
“Mormons.” I found all three sisters accom-
plished and intelligent women, and much more
free from prejudice than most of the people one
meets here and there in traveling, and they con-
versed on the subject of the Edmunds bill and
the measures taken to enforce the law, with
much feeling and interest in our affairs. They
also talked to me of the place, the trees, the
fruits and the shrubbery around Oak Knoll,
and the pleasure of gathering the nuts for
winter, and how their cousin, the poet, enjoyed
these simple pastimes. It is indeed a grand
and poetic place, and might be written up in
verse the most tender and sentimental.
This is a very rambling account of my visit,
and, like the childrens’ stories, will have to be
continued next time.
E.B. Wells.   Aunt Em.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WARNING 
FOR THE YOUNG PEOPLE IN UTAH.
     The Rev. M. T. Lamb is traveling over the
country lecturing on Mormonism, and how to
meet it from a Christian standpoint. He di-
vides Mormons into three classes; the leaders, or
hypocrites, as he styles them (but we know
better), the sincere Mormons and the indifferent
young people. The first class he has no hopes
of; not much of the second, but the third class
he has great hopes of converting over to the
so-called Christianity, and he has great hopes
of the apostates. The latter glass he is wel-
come to, as we have no use for them. But to
my young brethren and sisters, who have not
a testimony of this work called Mormon-
ism, I would say, they should seek diligently
to secure a testimony for themselves. “Seek,
and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened
unto you.” Then when he, the Rev. Mr;
Lamb, brings the 10,000 copies of his Golden
Bibles to distribute among the young people
of Utah, they will be prepared to meet him with
a knowledge for themselves; and you will get
it if you ask God in faith, and of this I am a
living witness.
     I was away from the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints from the time I was
twelve years old until I was thirty-two, and I
prayed earnestly to my Heavenly Father to
lead and guide me in the right. I sought for
light and truth, but found it not until I had
the privilege af listening again to the Elders
who are sent out to preach the Gospel as it
was taught by Jesus Christ Himself and all of
His Apostles and Prophets, and I know it is
the Gospel and power of God unto salvation,and
would not exchange this knowledge for all
the world contains. And so may you know,
my brethren and sisters, if you will strive to
do so.
     May God bless you all, and lead you in the
paths of truth and righteousness, that when
the “wolf in sheep’s clothing” shall present
himself before you, you may stand firm to
God and the truth, with a knowledge of your
own, is the prayer of,
     Your sister in the Gospel of Christ,
				     ELIZABETH JONES.
Council Bluffs.


NOTES AND NEWS.

Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher has for many
years edited a department in the Domestic
Monthly.


The Queen of Roumania has just completed
a novel, the scene of which is laid among the
ancient Dacians.
	The Turks are coming forward in History.
Lieut. Col. Talat Bey has written the “Battles
of Plevna.”
	There is a watch in a Swiss museum only
three sixteenths of an inch in diameter, insert-
ed in the top of a pencil-case. Its little dial in-
dicates not only hours, minutes, and seconds,but
also the days of the month.
	It is said that once in happy Finland the
average publication of books was one yearly.
In 1855 the average had increased to ten. But
the world is growing worse and the yearly
yield numbers 1,290 volumes. 
	Mr. Walter Besant, with a collaborateur, has
been rewriting Scribe’s Gringoire, under the
title of “The Ballad Monger” with Mr. Beer-
bohm Tree in the title role. This is not Mr.
Besant’s first essay in dramatic writing. He
with James Rice, early in their double
career; produced “Such a Good Man”—a com-
edy.
The Donnelly Shakespeare incident has
induced Messrs. Funk & Wagnalls to republish
a fac-simile edition of the 1623 folio edition
of Shakespeare, on which the Donnelly cipher
is based. The reprint is made from a photo-
graphic reproduction of the original reduced to
crown octavo size, and is now in press.
	Mrs. Craik was prompted to write her last
book, “An Unknown Country,” which discusses
the condition of the poor in the North of Ire-
land, by overhearing the remark of a laboring
man, who, when rallied upon helping a little
girl across the street, replied, “Ay, but a
’andful of ’elp is worth a cartload of pity.”


INTERESTING ITEMS.
Juarez, Mexico, Oct. 24, 1887.
Editor Exponent:
	Perhaps a few notes from this far away
place in regard to woman’s work may not be.
amiss:
	In July of 1886, though our camp was in an
unsettled state, Brother Teasdale thought it
best to organize a Primary Association, which
he did, with Sister Hannah H. Romney, Presi-
dent; Sisters Olive C. Moffet and Mattie Dil-
man, Counselors. Apostle Teasdale encouraged
the children and officers with his presence while
he remained with us, and quite a lively interest
was manifest in the training of our children.
On the 7th of last July an organization of
the Relief Society and Young Ladies’ Associa-
tion was effected, the President of the former
being Sister Elizabeth Hawkins, and of the
latter Sister Dora Pratt, both of whom have
labored faithfully in their respective offices,
and with good results. Sister Romney was
also at the same time given two new Counselors,
as her previous ones had moved away, Sisters
Mary E. Taylor and Annie Skonsen being sub-
stituted.
	Sister Minerva W. Snow was present at the
organization, and gave the sisters of the differ-
ent associations some excellent instructions in
regard to their duties, etc. She has endeared
herself to the sisters here by her active sym-
pathy and encouragement.
We are doing as well as we can in our un-
settled condition, but hope to do much better
when we have a comfortable schoolhouse to
meet in, which we hope will be in the near
future.
	The young people are anticipating, a nice
time this winter in their conjoint meetings, etc.
	There has been considerable sickness the last


two months, but the health of the people at
this date is much better, except that many of 
the children are having sore eyes just now, but
this does not deter them from turning out to
their Primary meetings, as nearly every child
in town was present last week.
			Yours as ever,
							KATE.


Y. L. AND P. A. FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	October 20th, 1887, we held our Annual
Fair for the Primary Association of Millville;
the Young Ladies also held theirs with us this
year. Meeting held at ten a.m. Singing by
the Young Ladies. Prayer by Sarah Gamble.
Then singing by the Primary Association.
	V. S. Cummings addressed the meeting, and
spoke very encouragingly.
	Sister Jane Cummings said she was pleased
to see so many children, and all looked so happy
and well.
	Sister Jane Molen addressed the children in
her usual pleasant way. She said that she was
pleased to meet with the children, and also the
young ladies, and was pleased with the pro-
gramme; she thought they rendered their parts
well; she was also pleased with the articles that
the Young Ladies and Primary Children had
made; hoped they would still continue in well-
doing, and not forget these annual fairs, for
they are very beneficial to the young people.
	There was a dance for the children in the
afternoon; they all enjoyed themselves very
much, and felt well. We concluded the day
with a dance for the young folks at night
	With good wishes for the EXPONENT, etc.,
				SARAH GAMBLE, Prest.
				EVA GAMBLE, Sec.


MISCELLANEOUS.

One seldom speaks of the virtue which one
has; but much oftener of that which fails us.— 
G. Lessing.

Whatever is the subject of faith should not
be submitted to reason, and much less bend to
it.—Pascal.

Tears are the softening showers which cause
the seed of heaven to spring up in the human
heart.—Sir W. Scott.

Poetry is music in words, and music is poe-
try in sound; both excellent sauce, but they
have lived and died poor that made them their
meat.—T. Euller.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

     The Y. L. M. I. A. of Minersville adopted the following
Resolutions Oct. 1st, 1887;
     Whereas, On the 25th day of September, 1887, it pleased
an Alwise Creator to remove from our midst by the hand
of death, Sister Maria E. Walker, born August 26th, 1858,
and,
     Whereas, She was elected President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Nov, 24th, 1884, which office she held until the time of her
death, and,
     Whereas, She was an active member and teacher of the
Relief Society, also a teacher and Secretary of the Sab-
bath School,
     Whereas, She has filled these several offices with faithful-
ness and integrity, showing by her example and precept
that she was ever willing to do her duty, therefore, be it
     Resolved, That the community have sustained a severe
loss in the demise of one so good and useful; therefore,
be it
     Resolved, That we extend our heart-felt sympathies to
the bereaved husband aud relatives; also,
     Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be spread
upon the records of the Y. L. M. I. A.; also one sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and one pre-
sented to her husband.
						HATTIE BRADSHAW, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LINES

ADDRESSED TO THOSE WHO ARE CAST INTO PRISON
		FOR THE GOSPEL’S SAKE.

	Adieu, sweet homes, we must bid you adieu,
	Dear wives and children; and hasten from you;
	The thoughts of a prison extorts a deep sigh,
	Our hearts sink within us, to high heaven we cry.

	The stripes in our clothes not long shall we wear,
	But robes of bright glory shining and fair:
	With a crown on our heads that will dazzle the sun,
	And from glory to glory eternally run.
						MRS. E. G. WILLIAMS.
	Farmington, March 1st, 1887.

	The lady is eighty-two years old, and belonged to the
first Relief Society that was organized in the Church by
Joseph Smith the Prophet.


SORGUM.

The glories of mush and milk have been rung,
In language sublime its praises sung;
So to old sorgum I'll tune my Lyre, 	
And thoughts of the children my muse will inspire;
With “bread and lasses” what can compare,
In the heterogenous bill of fare;
What can so touch up the rosy face,
And "fix” the Sunday clothes and lace?
I once knew a girlie with bright black eye,
That afterwards made the lovers sigh.
Turn from a sumptuous Christmas dinner,
And beg mama for "lasses” "Don’t ant such dinner."
See white heads and curly heads gathered round
The old Sorgum Mill wherever found;
And pearly teeth grinding, grinding away,
From early dawn until close of day,
Now hurrying up the horses slow,
Who think there’s no end to this weary row;
Now riding the sweep while the horses rest,
And shouting and singing the songs of the blest;
What visions of taffy float through the head,
When laid on the little trundle bed,
Or while watching the skimming and storing away,
Throughout their young morning's glorious day;
And the candy-pullings, how bright a part
They fill in many a girlish heart;
And many a boy remembers well,
'Twas the night when he did his first love tell.
Smile not at my humble, simple lay,
Ye who soar in the heights of the starry way;
I am down with the children on earth below,
Where the daisies and starry eyes brightly blow;
Now all who will may join in the shout,
Let three glad cheers of joy ring out,
For the Mill, the Miller, the children all.
And may never a shadow upon them fall;
May nothing darker than "lasses” stain
The heart or soul on life’s wide plain,
And may the Father gather them in,
Well ground and cleansed from every sin.


ONE LESS AT HOME.

		One less at home! 
The charmed circle broken—a dear face
Missed day by day from its accustomed place,
But, cleansed and saved and perfected by grace,
		One more in heaven!
	
		One less at home!
One voice of welcome hushed, and evermore
One farewell word unspoken; on the shore
Where parting comes not, one soul landed more,
		One more in heaven!

		One less at home!
A sense of loss that meets us at the gate;
Within, a place unfilled and desolate;
And far away, our coming to await,
		One more in heaven!

		One less at home!
Chill as the earth-born mist the thought would rise,
And wrap our footsteps round and dim our eyes;
But the bright sunbeam darteth from the skies,
		One more in heaven!


One more at home!
This is not home, where cramped in earthly mould
Our sight of Christ is dim, our love is cold;
But there, where face to face we shall behold,
		Is home and heaven!

		One less on earth!
Its pain, its sorrow, and its toil to share;
One less the pilgrim's daily cross to bear,
One more the crown of ransomed souls to wear,
		At home in heaven!

		One more in heaven!
Another thought to brighten cloudy days,
Another theme for thankfulness and praise,
Another link on high our souls to raise
		To home and heaven!

		One	more at home—
That home where separation cannot be,
That home where none are missed eternally,
Lord Jesus, grant us all a place with Thee,
							S. G. STOCK.


BACKBITING.

     Sisters, this is a habit we all indulge in too
much, and until it is done away with there
never will be unity in our Society; and how do
we expect to prosper if we are not united? If
one pulls one way and another a different way
altogether, we never  can improve in our
Society. Therefore, dear sisters, let us all
make a covenant that at the commencement of
our meetings that we will stop at once, put our
foot on the head of that terrible scorpion which
is working in our hearts, and crush him to
death. Why not break ourselves of this awful
habit? for such it is. We hear a remark
passed about one of our friends, and until we
have a chance to unload ourselves of that bur-
den (for such we think it is), we are not con-
tented. And do we always get the exact truth?
I am afraid not. We think when we hear re-
marks passed that they sound terrible, but
when we go to tell them they have lost their
charm, and we add to make them sound grand
to others, as they had done to us. And for
this one reason we have not been more united
in the past than we have; we are too willing to
pick each other to pieces, too willing to find
fault. Ah, sisters! why not begin now to re-
form? “Better late than never” (but better
never late).
     Alas! if we begin now and make a success
of it the Lord’s blessings will be with us, for
we cannot attain His blessing when we are all
the time backbiting His children who are as
near and dear to Him as we are. We are all
human; there is not one of us but what has
our faults and our failings, and still have good
qualities too; but instead of trying to run them
down, why not speak to them aside, tell them
kindly, and tell them where they did wrong,
and if we know how, show them the right way
to replace their wrong steps? Oh, how much
better they would feel; they would thank us
ten fold, and we would not have to be dodging
around the corners to keep out of their way, so
we could not be accused of anything we would
not like to face.	
     Kind sisters, you, perhaps, will tire of my
writing, but I pray to God our Eternal Father
that He will bless us with peace, union and
strength, that we may work hand in hand, and
be a united band of workers. If we do this I
know we will improve greatly, for improve-
ment should be our motto, and unity be in our
midst.	     Your sister,
			LAURETTE VAN BUREN.


[Column 1]
PROCRASTINATION.

“Procrastination is the very thief of time,” is an
old adage and a very true one. “Never put
 off till to-morrow what ought to be done to-
day.” How often we hear that maxim quoted, 
but we do not always practice it.

[Column 2]
	﻿Every day has its duties and cares and we
should not neglect the duties of to-day but
perform each in its time and season, for we
know not what to-morrow will bring. Life is
uncertain. We do not know how long
we will be permited to remain
here. To-morrow for us may never dawn
in mortality. It would make us very unhappy
to be called from our labors to another sphere,
knowing that our work was unfinished, that
we had neglected our duties, and failed to im-
prove opportunities for improvement and for
doing good, that had presented themselves to
us.
	Secretaries should be prompt in their duties
and their books posted and make their reports
in good season, for it takes no more time to
copy a set of minutes, or make a report to-day,
than it will to-morrow and it avoids anxiety and
saves hurry and confusion. We should learn
while young, that there is a time and place for
everything, and learn to have everything in its
place and perform every duty in
its time and season; and not let them accumu-
late on our hands like a stack of unread news-
papers. By reading one paper every day it
is quite easy to keep even but let them accumu-
late for a week and it will take quite an effort,
and considerable time to read them all and get
even again. Let us try to be more prompt, and
persevere a little more and if obstacles meet us
let us find a way to surmount them, and let not
the sly old thief, called procrastination, rob us
of our laurels and let us always remember that
none can wear laurels in our Father's work, ex-
cept those who earn them.
	M. E. TEASDALE.

	Even in New Hampshire women are coming
into office. Mrs. Susan L. Hall has been ap-
pointed by Judge Knapp clerk of the court at
Great Falls.
	Mrs. Alice Green, widow of the distinguished
historian, and herself responsible for much of
the work in his last book, “The Conquest of
England,” is preparing an exhaustive study of
Henry II., which will appear next year.
The popular Swedish novelist, Madame
Emilie Hygare Carlen many of whose ro-
mances have been issued in English transla-
tions, is about to publish her memoirs in three
volumes, under the title of the “Aftermath,
from the career of an Octagenarian writer.”
The veteran author has just entered her eighty-
first year.
	Florence Nightingale, the heroine of the
Crimea, is thought to be dying in England
from the effects of an old hospital fever con-
tracted in 1856. There is a general falling off
of the system, a wasting away from the effects
of her perilous labors during the days in
which she devoted her life to the soldiers
wounded in battle.
	Felix Regamy, a Parisian artist well known
in Boston, has made the interesting discovery,
that a French plaster molder named Hubard
has in his possession a full-sized bronze copy of
the marble statue of Washington, by Houdon,
which he will sell for $800. M. Regamy sug-
ests in the Paris Figaro that the United
tates government purchase the bronze statue
and present it to the Gallery of the Louvre.
	Three million women in the United States
work for money. Of these 600,000 are agri-
cultural laborers—mainly in the cotton fields
of the south; 640,000 are employed in manu-
factories, while 530,000 in the laundries of the
country insist that the “Chinese must go;” 280,-
000 are milliners and 200,000 find employment
as dressmakers; 60,000 earn their bread in the
tailorshops and 690,000 are sales-women,
teachers, telegraph operators, typewriters, book-
keepers, typesetters, and nurses. There are
2,500 female physicians.


92						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 15, 1887.


HEBER C. KIMBALL.
A LETTER, FROM HIS HISTORIAN TO THE PUBLIC.

To the Friends of the Late President Heber C.
	Kimball:
	In the forthcoming history of my grandfather,
which I am engaged in writing, and which will
probably appear some time in the winter or early
spring, it is my intention to devote a chapter,aside
from the main narrative,to anecdotes and personal
reminiscences, illustrative of his life and charac-
ter.
	With a view to making this as interesting as
possible, I hereby invite all the old-time friends
and acquaintances of President Kimball who may
so desire, to contribute to this chapter, believing
that in their possession are doubtless many choice
gems of word and incident pertaining to his event-
ful life, which have not yet found their way into
print, and are not noted in his journal, and which,
unless now secured, may in a few years be entire-
ly lost to history.
	The anecdotes should be crisp, brief and to the
point, and will be published in the book with
their writers' names, unless otherwise desired.
Early attention will greatly oblige. Please ad-
dress as below.
			Very respectfuly,
				ORSON F. WHITNEY,
					P. O. Box 357,
						Salt Lake City,
								Utah.
	Nov. 16, 1887.


[Column 1]
			DAYS OF TRIAL.
	The remarkable occurrences taking place here day
after day sound a note of warning to all who are
not wide awake in the performance of every duty
to renew their diligence, and be more earnest,
more prayerful and watchful than ever and take
heed to their ways, that they may be able to en-
dure the days of trial that are now just at the
doors. They have been talked of and prophe-
sied of in public and in private, these days of
testing, and that but few would be able to endure,
and yet the actual circumstances that would bring
about these peculiar experiences were not under-
stood in the least. Whoever thought Congress
would have passed such unprecedented laws and 
strenuous measures, as have been passed by that
body without any,or very little opposition, against
the Mormon people, and enforced rigorously
and although the enforcement of these cruel and
harsh measures has brought so much hardship it
does not seem to satisfy the craving desires of the
enemies of the Saints, but the officers of the
government seem more and more anxious to bring
severe and more cruel hardships upon the people.
So long as they submit patiently, instead of think-
ing "it is enough," they are ready to heap more
persecution and prosecution, and make the bur-
den heavier and more grievous to be borne. They
[Column 2]
are not content with breaking up families and des-
olating happy homes, fining and imprisoning men
who have sought to worship God with clean hands
and pure hearts,but still pursue"with a zeal worthy
of a better cause;" the patient endurance and long
suffering of this people under a series of trials of
the most harassing character and outrages perpe-
trated in the name of the government, will indeed
be a problem for the unbeliever to solve. Strange,
in this land of religious liberty where churches
and denominations of all kinds and all beliefs are
allowed perfect freedom that the property of the
Mormon Church should be seized upon. It can-
not be because of the immense wealth, if so the
Roman Catholic and Episcopal Church would be
subjected to the same indignity. The Church
property of the Mormons has been accumulated
from the tithes and offerings of the people who
actually believe in the literal translation of that
scripture which says, "bring your tithes and your
offerings into the storehouse of the Lord and see
if I will not pour you out a blessing that there
shall not be room to receive it." And for these
things are the Latter-day Saints persecuted. But
they and their enemies are all in the hands of one
who sees not as man sees and whose ways are not
as man's ways, and He will surely punish those
who oppress the innocent, the widow and the
orphan, for whom, and other laudable purposes,
these tithes and offerings were given.
	The Lord will pour out of His indignation upon
the wicked as He has said and His hand will not be
stayed when His judgements begin.
	 Already strifes and uprisings and riots and
threatenings are heard, and it would be well to
heed the warnings contained in the word of the
Lord to this people and be prepared for the evil
day which is just at hand.

	One of the great events of the present day was
the execution of the Anarchists in Chicago on the
11th of November 1877. Whether the matter will
end there remains for the future to determine. It
is the general opinion of the most conservative
people, that there will be serious difficulty yet with
this socialistic element, if not in Chicago in other
cities further east. They are dangerous every-
where, working in secret and in the dark, not es-
tablishiug themselves openly, but in various ways
creating discord and strife between the employer
and the employed. Sowing the seeds of disunion
and strife where before confidence existed; and
making such an intricate network of complica-
tions as will puzzle the nation much more, and be
far more difficult to handle and to unravel than
the "Mormon" question which the goveriment con-
siders such a knotty problem. "Mormonism" has
brought into the country an element of in-
dustry and enterprise, a people who believe
in labor, and who discountenance emphatic-
ally every tendency to discord and strife,
or opposition to peace and good govern-
ment. It is deplorable indeed to think that such
secret combinations against the peace and pros-
perity of the American people, should exist and
find followers in the midst of the great cities of
the United States. And the end is not yet. What
developments of this nature and disturbances may
arise no one knows, but the fulfillment of the pre-
dictions of ancient and modern prophets should
warn the nations everywhere to prepare for the
events that are to herald in the coming of the Son
of Man upon the earth.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	At the Y. M. M. I. A. Conference of Weber
Stake, held in Ogden, Nov. 13th, 1877, Bishop O.
F. Whitney delivered an address in the evening,
which, it is stated, held the large audience spell-
bound for two hours. The Ogden Herald says:
"The meeting in the evening, as in the afternoon,


was very large, many not being able to gain ad-
mittance. Bishop Orson F. Whitney, after the
opening exercises, occupied the time with an elo-
quent address full of wise counsel. He elicited
the interest of the large audience as only few
speakers could, and his instructions will long be
remembered as among the choicest that could be
given. A synopsis would not do justice to him t
and therefore we refrain from giving a more ex-
tended notice.”
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this city, on
Thursday, December 8th, next, commencing at
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. A full and punctual attendance
from all parts of the county is requested. On the
following day, Friday, December 9th, the Y. L. M.
I. A. of this Stake will hold conference, and on
Saturday, December 10th, the Primary Associa-
tions will hold their conference. It is earnestly
desired by the presidents and officers of these
several conferences that the meetings should be
well attended, and an interest manifested for the
general good. A cordial invitation is extended to
all who desire to see these organizations prosper,
to come and hear the instructions given. As this
is the time for verbal reports, it may be more in-
teresting than when written reports are read.
Presidents of Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
are expected to represent the condition of the re-
spective Society or Association over which they
preside.
	MRS. MARILLA M. RICKER, of Washington,
has been visiting this city the past three of four
weeks. She has, we believe, enjoyed the sight-
seeing and association with friends here whom
she had met and formed a friendship for in the
east, notwithstanding they were Mormons. Mrs.
Ricker, though not a professed Christian, has
many excellent qualities of heart and soul, as well
as a superior education and general knowledge of
the world, and stands high in her profession (the
law); was admitted to the bar of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in 1882, and
was subjected to a very searching examination as
to her knowledge of law. There were 17 male
applicants at the time. The Committee, in recom-
mending her admission, reported that she stood
at the head of the list of applicants, and was es-
pecially versed in the complex common law rules
governing real estate titles. “Her practice has
been principally in the criminal courts of Washing-
ton. She visits prisons, and does much philan-
thropic work. In our next issue we propose to
make a more extended notice of this noted woman
lawyer and her visit to Utah.


LETTER FROM SANDWICH ISLANDS.
Laie, Oahu, Hawaiian Islands,
Oct. 22nd 1887,
To Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, President of
	the Relief Society of the Chnrch of Jesus
	Christ of Latter-day Saints:
DEAR SISTER:
	Not being supplied with blanks to forward you
a correct report of our work in this part of the
vineyard we are under the necessity of writing you
the condition of the Relief Societies of these
islands, which we are pleased to say speak favor-
ably for themselves at present. There are 22 so-
cieties in all, in which there are 514 members.
Meetings are generally held weekly, working and
testimony meetings alternately. The Societies of
this island are far in advance of those on the
other islands owing to our direct and constant la-
bor among them, as you are doubtless aware that
these poor natives when left by themselves, soon
fall into slothfulness and sin. We are laboring
as energetically as possible to introduce all kinds
of useful work among them. And in order to


make this pleasant and interesting, we purpose
having a fair before our next conference.
Previous to the introduction of this work in our
meetings, their only work has been to assist the
missionaries, donate to the Temple, tithing, etc.
There are few poor among them. Owing to the
delightfulness of the climate, but little clothing is
required, and when the earth will yield their sus-
tenance (poi) they are never in want. Hence, it
has been thought wise to call on them to assist
in these different objects; and since our last con-
ference they have donated four hundred and
eighty-six dollars and twenty-five cents ($486.25,)
to these purposes. We will be pleased to receive
such instructions as you see fit to give us with re-
gard to our labors here for we realize our inexpe-
rience in the duties resting upon us; but we are
very desirous of fulfilling our missions hon-
orably among this people. We will also be
pleased to receive blanks for our next conference
report, that we may better know what is required
of us. You will also favor us by stating the price
per hundred of having blanks printed. The price
of printing here necessitates us making our own,
and if advisable we will send home to have them
printed. Ever praying for the welfare of our
sisters in Zion who are unitedly laboring for the
upbuilding of God’s Kingdom upon the earth.
We have the honor to be,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			LIBBIE NOALL, President,
			LUCY M. KING,
			NELLIE BBESLEY, Counselors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	﻿PRIMARY MEETING AND FAIR.
	We had the pleasure of attending a special
meeting of the P. A. of South Cottonwood
in company with Sister E. C. Clawson, on
Thursday, Nov. 10th, at 11 o’clock a.m., Mrs.
Elizabeth Davis presiding. There was quite a
good attendance of the children, and a pro-
gramme had been prepared for the occasion,
consisting of choice selections of recitations
and songs, which were well rendered. The
meetings in that ward have to be held in dis-
tricts during the winter season, as the distances
are too great for the children to come together
in the ward house; so previous to the change
this special meeting and Fair was held to en-
courage the little ones.
	After the programme was finished, Prest.
Davis asked some questions, that were promptly
answered by the children, and Sisters E. C.
Clawson, E. B. Wells, M. Rawlins and E Davis
each spoke a few minutes, encouraging the
children in the good work in which they were
engaged, and impressing upon them the neces-
sity of obedience, honesty, truthfulness, per-
severance and every virtue that would pre-
pare them for usefulness in the kingdom of God
upon the earth.
	After the close of the meeting excellent re-
freshments were served in the adjoining hall,
where preparations had been made for the
Fair. The Primary children had been assisted
by the Young Ladies' Association in getting
articles for the Fair, and it was a very good
showing. There were on exhibition by the
little boys, vegetables of several kinds, all very
large and of good quality; also little articles
made by ingenious and skillful hands, chairs,
tables, wheelbarrow, and other useful things,
pencil drawings and so on; needle work in
abundance of almost every variety, plain sew-
ing and fancy work, embroidery, lace work
crochet, plain and fancy knitting, wool flowers,
hair flowers, a miniature house cut and covered
with sea-weed, quite picturesque, by the girls.
A young Brother Tipton had made quite a
unique little microscope, and was showing a 
musquito under it, which amused the children,
and even grown people, the tiny legs, horns
and teeth assuming such large proportions.
[Column 2]
﻿There were a number of curiosities from New.
Zealand on exhibition, brought by Bro. E L.
Davis, quantities of ferns, some artistically
arranged and framed, and shells of various
sorts and sizes; the most peculiar was one to
which clung a long heavy branch of yellow
sea-weed, which resembled somewhat a man’s
beard.
	A large frame contained the photo’s of fifty-
five Maories; a brief description of the picture
is given here, and below, also, a description of
a Maori village. a photograph of which was
exhibited at the Fair, and last the Kauri tree,
which gives employment to many people in
digging for the gum, which is one of the chief
exports of the country.

		"THE MAORI PHOTO'S.
	"In the middle of the frame is Prest. Ihaia
Hopn, a distinguished Maori chief, and first
among the Maoris to receive the holy Priest-
hood, and President of the first branch, Te
Ore Ore. He died firm in the Gospel, April
27,1886. On his left is his wife, Erihapata;
in the centre of the bottom is Piripi Te Maari,
Chief of the Rakai Whakairi Tribe, and
President of the Kohunni Branch; on his left
is Sister Horiana Hopn, daughter of Ihana
Hopn, in ball dress; in centre of second row is
Paratane Tui, President, and Aporo Kumeroa
First and Arapata Te Maari Second Counselors
of the Waitapu Branch, and the others are
brothers and sisters in the Gospel, whose gener-
ous hearts and hospitable acts are not to be ex-
celled on mother earth.

		“THE MAORI VILLAGE
	"Is Taranaki, the largest native village in
New Zealand, and the home of Ti Witi, the
great Maori Prophet, who claims to be equal
with Christ, and was visited in March, 1885,
by Elder Amasa Aldrich and myself, as the
first two Mormon Elders to present to him the
only true Gospel. On that occasion we made
a trip of 600 miles in six weeks, mostly on foot,
and slept seven nights on cold mother earth,
and we were blest of the Lord, and trust the
seed we in our humble way endeavored to
plant will yet spring forth and bring rich fruit
to the honor and glory of God.
	“The ferns are a few of the 160 kinds to be
found in Maoriland, or New Zealand. Fern
Alley is one of the lovliest places in the world.

		“THE KAURI TREE.
	"Stateliest of all the forest giants of New Zea-
land is the Kauri Tree, with its crown of
powerful branches twined into a dark, dense
green roof, and attains to the height of 140 to
150 feet, and even 200 feet Its trunk and
branches produce an abudance of resin or
Kauri gum, and which is found in the earth
from the surface to twelve feet deep, and affords
employment for some 10,000 to 12,000 people
in the neighborhood and north of Auckland,
which is sent away by the ship-load, and used
for varnish, etc., as well as many beautiful
ornaments, watch chains, brooches, eardrops,
etc. Everything in the New Zealand forest is
evergreen, and it is lovely and grand.
				"Very respectfully,
					"Eurini Ruihi Reweti,
					"Edwin Lewis Davis."
	The children and young people certainly de-
serve great praise for the very interesting arti-
cles produced and made, as also for the
arrangement of the whole Fair, which pre-
sented an attractive appearance. We ought
not to omit mentioning the cooking, bread,
cakes in great variety, fruits, jellies and pre-
serves, in fact there seemed to be a collection
of the useful and beautiful, plain and orna-
mental. These little Fairs must be a stimulus
to industry and improvement. Where among
any people have they such encouragement for
[Column 3]
all, for it is well known the Primary Associa-
tion takes in all the little folks without any
distinction being made of rich or poor, who will
come and be taught under the direction of
those who preside.


INTERESTING VISIT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER WELLS:—Since President
Anna Ivins returned from the city she requested
me to send you a short sketch of our trip
around the St. George Stake:
	September 29th Sisters Mary B. Eyring, Ann
C. Woodbury of Relief Society, Mary G.
Whitehead of Mutuals and Julia H. Ivins of
the Primaries, left for the Santa Clara. At 3
o’clock met with the Relief Society and Young
Ladies together, and afterwards met with the
Primary; had a very good time, and hope a
profitable one to all. We spent the night with 
Sister Ensign. 
	The 30th we traveled on to Gunlock. At 3
o’clock met with Primary; Sister Ella Leavitt
resigned, as she had so many small children she
could not attend; Sister Lizzie Hunt was put
in Second Counselor to Sister Emma Holt.
Met with Relief Society; had a very good meet-
ing.
	October 1st traveled on to Pine Valley, and
met with the Primary, Sister Ellen Jones pre-
siding. On the 2nd met in the afternoon; the
Bishop administered the sacrament, and turned
the meeting over to the sisters. In the evening
met with the Mutual. Sister Lucy Gardner
resigned, and Sister Emma Burgess chosen as 
Second Counselor to Sister Julia Cox. We
had a day long to be remembered.
	3rd went on to Hamblin; had dinner at Sister
Canfields, and traveled on to Hebron. At 4
o’clock held meeting; very few people are in
this place, owing to the water being gone. They
have very nice brick houses, but are discour-
aged at keeping up such a long flume; they
think of moving to the water. A good feeling
prevailed. We traveled on to Bishop Terry’s
Ranch, and stayed all night, where we were
hospitably entertained. 
	The 4th we traveled to Panacca. Here we
divided, part going to Bishop Lee’s and the
others to President Wadsworth’s. This settle-
ment has had a good deal of sickness in the
shape of measles and whooping cough. 5th
met with Primary in the forenoon and with
the Relief Society and Young Ladies in the
afternoon; had a very good time.
	The 6th we traveled on to Bro. Terry’s Ranch
in the morning. The 7th found snow on the 
ground; had a very cold drive to Hamblin; held
meeting in the afternoon; had a very good time;
very few people in this settlement. 8th went
on to Pinto; snow most of the way; held meet-
ing at President Jane Harrison’s, owing to the
meeting house being under repair. Met with
Bro. D. H. Cannon, who encouraged us very
much in our labors. Traveled on to Harmony;
snow near 3 feet deep on the side of the road.
On the 9th met with the Sabbath School; sisters
talked to the children. In the afternoon met
with the R. S. and Y. L; had a very good
time.  10th traveled on to Toquerville; met
with Relief Society and Young Ladies; also the
Primary. There is a bright lot of children
here, and Sister Adelaide Savage takes great
interest in them.  11th went on to Rockville.
12th met with the Primary in the forenoon;
here is a very interesting Primary, and shows 
the energy of Sister Lizzie Smith. In the
afternoon met with Relief Society. The young
ladies of this place are all married; some from
Springdale and Shonesbury met us here; these
settlements have had a good deal of sickness.
13th traveled on to Grafton and held meeting.
This settlement is small; most of the people were
out; we had an excellent meeting; they have a


very good meeting house; it is not quite finished.
We traveled on to Virgin. At 2 o’clock met
with Relief Society; the President here is very
feeble; it is Sister John Parker; Counselor
Workman presided; met with Primary at 4
o’clock, President Pratt presiding; had a very
good meeting.
	On the 14th we went on to Toquerville; ate
dinner at Sister Savage’s; her husband is in
prison for taking care of his family. Went on
to Leeds, where we held meeting at early candle
light. 15th traveled on to Washington; had
meeting at 1 o’clock with Relief Society; at 3
o’clock met with Primary; at 4 with Young
Ladies; had very good meetings, and a good
feeling prevailed; arrived in St George about 6
in the evening, having been 17 days from home.
We were glad to find all well at home, and
trust we have done some good in urging the
Saints to their duty. We traveled about three
hundred miles.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion I re-
main,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				ANN C. WOODBURY.
St. George, Nov. 4, 1887.


94	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

SUMMIT STAKE.
	The Summit Stake Relief Society held their 
conference at Kamas, September 29th, 1887.
Meeting commenced at 10 a.m., M. J. Atwood,
Stake President, presiding. Singing by the
choir. Prayer was offered, and the choir sang
again.  The minutes of the last conference
and reports from the different branches were
read and accepted.
	There were on the stand Sisters Zina D. H. 
Young, of Salt Lake, for the R. S., Sister
Rogers, of Farmington, for the Primaries,
the Stake Presidency of R. S., presidents of
Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations, Prest.
W. W. Cluff and others, and a very good
attendance in the hall.
	Much good instruction was given by the sis-
ters and President Cluff, which was well appre-
ciated and enjoyed by those present.  Arrange-
ments were made for another Fair for the bene-
fit of the Summit Stake House, to be held in
May next at Coalville.  The reports from the
several branches show them to be in good work-
ing order.
	On Friday, Sept. 30th, the Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference was held at the same place, occupy-
ing the whole day, which was very interesting,
and they arranged to join the Relief Society in
the Fair.
	The Primary Conference was also held at the
same place, on Saturday, Oct 1st., occupying
the whole day.  The services were interspersed
with questions, which were creditably answered
by the children.  It was the fullest attendance
and the most interesting Primary Conference
ever held in Summit Stake.
	The three days’ conference was a feast seldom
it ever enjoyed before by the sisters of Kamas.
The blessings they received from the sisters of
Salt Lake Valley will long be remembered.
	S. F. ATWOOD.

TOOELE STAKE.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of
Tooele Stake convened in the meeting house at
Tooele, Sept. 11 and 12, 1887, Counselor Emily
Warburton presiding, as Prest. Hunter had
not arrived from Grantsville in time for the
morning meeting.  There were present from
Salt Lake City, Sisters S. M. Kimball and M. 
W. Snow, also Prest. Gowans and Counselor
Jane Eastham of Tooele Stake; Bishop Atkin
and other brethren.  Presidents of branches
of R. S. in the stake, Sisters Jeanette Dela-
mere, Tooele, Hannah Burridge, St. John’s,

[Column 2]
Jane Adamson, Lake View. After the usual
exercises and reading of minutes and reports
Sister Kimball addressed the meeting, gave ex-
cellent instruction to the sisters in reference to
their duties and pointed out in a clear and
forcible manner the benefit of being thus organ-
ized.  Advised the observance of order and 
urged the sisters to be charitable and for-
giving, helpful and energetic and live near
to the Lord so as to know when we are doing
right.
	Sister Snow spoke of her recent visit to
Mexico and made many good remarks concern-
ing the Relief Society its organization and
benefits, rejoiced that we had the oppor-
tunity of helping to redeem and happify each
other through our labors and efforts as a society,
and closed by saying that our religion was
worth making any sacrifice for.
	Prest. Hunter having come in excused her-
self for being late, and spoke of not feeling well
in health, said she had passed through a se-
vere trial of late, a great fire had destroyed
much of their property, barns, hay and so on;
felt she had not attended to her society duties
of late as she should but intended to in the
future.
	The Presidents of the several wards re-
ported and Bishop Atkin of Tooele Ward
made a few good remarks encouraging the 
sisters, and endorsed all that had been said,
thought the Relief Society a great help.
	In the afternoon the P. A. of the stake held
a conference, Mrs. Sarah Hale presiding.  There
were songs and recitations well rendered, show-
ing that President Jane Bowen had taken great
pains to teach the little folks.
	In the evening the Young Ladies Associa-
tions held a conference, Sister Ann Tate presid-
ing.  After the perliminary exercises minutes
and reports were read and Sisters Kimball and
Snow addressed the young people on suitable 
subjects; President Gowans also gave good in-
struction and the meeting was an enjoyable 
and interesting one.
     Sunday morning the sisters visited the Sab-
bath School and Sisters Kimball and Snow ad-
dressed the children, giving good counsel and
urging them onward in the performance of
duty.
     In the afternoon the Relief Society Confer-
ence was continued, and the sisters from Salt
Lake each spoke a short time in an intelligent
and interesting manner.
     We thank our sisters very much for paying 
us this visit and for the good advice we have
received.  May God bless them and those who
visit us from time to time to encourage and
help us is my prayer.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec.
ONEIDA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Oneida
Stake of Zion was held in Franklin, Sept 25th,
1887, at 10 a.m.  Opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer.  The minutes of
the previous district conference were read; also
the reports for the past six months, which were
very encouraging to the sisters.
     Prest. Elizabeth Fox was pleased to see so
many out, this being the first general conference
of Relief Society held in this Stake: “And in-
asmuch as we have the Spirit of the Lord we
will have a good time.” Requested the presi-
dents of the various branches to give verbal 
reports, which was done with but few excep-
tions, showing that most of them were in a 
prosperous condition, after which a song was
sung by Sister Martha Robinson.
     Sister Sarah Richards, of Mormon Ward, in-
structed the sisters to rear their children in the
ways of the Lord, that they will be true and
faithful and obey the Gospel in its fullest sense.
Exhorted the boys to be truthful and honest
and they would be good men; gave the same

[Column 3]
advice to the girls. “When we are sick we
should send for the Elders, as the prayers of
the faithful will heal the sick.  We should be
peace-makers, and not heed idle gossip, but set a
good example before all.”
	Sister Ann Hale, Counselor, was pleased to
see so many happy faces present; was pleased
with the reports. “The sisters should inform
their minds as much as possible, using an hour
each day for that purpose.  All are willing to
help the Bishops in all that they might ask.
Children should be respectful to their parents.”
Felt that the ward teachers should visit us
oftener than they do; made other interesting 
remarks.
	Sister Mary Hawks, Counselor, was pleased
to meet with the sisters in the first general con-
ference, although there were a great many
wards a long way off, so it was impossible for
all to attend; still we may have a good time.
It takes all our time to beautify our homes and
to inform our minds; our husbands should help
in training our children in proper ways, as the
mothers cannot work hard all day and study
at night.  We should attend our meetings so
we can be wise in watching the company our
children keep.  Let our practice and theory
go together to the protection of our little ones,
as they should enjoy all the privileges before
them.  We need the blessings of the Lord at
all times.  Hoped the sisters would feel well
paid for coming out.
     Bishop Wm. Parkinson, of Preston, would
much rather listen to the sisters than occupy
any time.  Would put his trust in the Lord,
that he might be able to say something that
would edify the congregation. “The Gospel is
the same to-day as it was anciently.  It takes
the same work to-day as it did then to gain the
same blessings.  We should love our neighbors
as ourselves, and we would have a heaven on 
earth.  We should lay aside all our imperfec-
tions and follies, and not allow the adversary
to gain power over us, but strive to do right at 
all times; as we have to endure the scorn and
ridicule from all, it is hard to continue this
battle, and the obstacles can be removed by
helping each other.  I love all that are honest
and true, no matter what their religion.  Let
us be upright and honorable, so we can have
the full flow of the Spirit of the Lord.”
	Bishop S. R. Parkinson said, “We should be
charitable to all, and give good counsel freely
to all.  We must be sure and not vilify our
neighbors, not speak of their bad actions, and
when we are old we may be able to think that
we have been peace-makers.  May we put the
counsel in practice that we have heard.”  In-
voked the blessing of the Lord upon us.
     Singing by the choir.  Benediction was pro-
nounced by Thomas Durant.
	2 p.m.: Meeting opened with singing and
prayer.  Sacrament was administered, and
Sister Adeline Barber, of Cache Stake, said,
“The Relief Society was organized for our bene-
fit, as we are enabled to stand up and bear our
testimonies, and help bear off the kingdom of
our God.  As our brethren have to go on mis-
sions, we have our children to bring up in a 
proper manner.  The Lord has shown the sis-
ters that celestial marriage is right, and we
need to be humble before the Lord, and be an
instrument in His hands in doing good.  How
long would this persecution hang around us, if
we were united and pure?  If we would live 
this principle in purity it would be no trial to
us.  Let us be faithful in all things, and we
will have joy in our labors.  It is our duty to 
be kind to those who have obeyed this law.
We must put away the styles and fashions of
the world, when we come to the Temple of the
Lord; dress plain and we will not be reproved.”
Song by Sister Martha Robinson, entitled,
“Who’s on the Lord’s side, who?”
	Sister Rogers said: “The Relief Society is a


great organizaton, as it enables us to visit the
poor and needy, and those that are in trouble.
We should give all that we have to the Lord.
Whatever we sow the same we shall reap. Let
us all be cheerful in whatever we are called
upon to do, as we are blessed with many things.
If we ask we shall receive,” etc.
	Bro. Thos. Durant hoped the instructions we
had received would remain on our minds, and
we would put them into practice. We should
set ourselves in order, that we might turn the
key to our own benefit, as it is the most im-
portant matter that pertains unto us.”
	Sister Fox endorsed the instructions that
had been given; was pleased with the reports.
“We have a great deal to encourage us, and
also discourage us, but we should depend on
the Lord.” Gave general counsel to all;
thought it would be well to hold these general
conferences every six months. Desired the
blessings of the Lord to attend her in all
things.
	Conference adjourned sine die. Singing.
Benediction by S. R. Parkinson. 
	ELIZABETH FOX, Prest.
	JOSEPHINE BRAWLEY, Ass’t Sec.


95	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿MRS. FREDERIC HILL.

By the death of Mrs. Frederic Hill this Re-
view loses one of its earliest supporters and
most faithful friends. She died on the 22nd of
August at the advanced age of eighty-four.
But although she passed fourscore years, her
old age brought only increased wisdom and
happiness instead of the psalmist’s labor and
sorrow. She suffered a little latterly from in-
firmity of body, but the brightness of her in-
tellect and the keenness of her sympathy re-
mained undiminished to the last, and she passed
from this life to the next without suffering, full
of faith and hope, and surrounded by those she
most loved.
	Mrs. Hill was, as most of our readers know,
the wife of Mr. Frederic Hill, one of five
brothers all well-known in public life. Sir
Rowland Hill is the best known, but Mr.
Frederic Hill, as Inspector of Prisons for
Scotland, and afterwards one of the Secre-
taries of the Post-Office, and still more as one
who has devoted his life to the public good,
will long bear an honored name. Mrs. Hill’s
maiden name was Martha Cowper. She was
born at Enfield in 1803. Her father was a
man of scientific tastes who, inheriting proper-
ty from her grandfather, retired early from
business and devoted himself to his labor-
atory and his books. Nine children were born
to him of whom the subject of the present
paper was the seventh. At least one other of
the children inherited the father’s love of
science, and became in after life well known as
Professor Cowper, who invented the first work-
ing printing machine, and whose classes at
King’s College in chemistry and applied
science were always crowded, and are still re-
membered in the college. It was a happy un-
eventful childhood at the Enfield house, and
in due course Martha Cowper went to school
with the others. But female education at the
beginning of this century was at a low ebb,
and her great store of information, her strong
love of books, and accurate knowledge of
natural history were due rather to individual
work and home influence than to school teach-
ing. She used to illustrate the state of female
education in those days by an amusing anec-
dote. One of her schoool fellows, a girl of
eighteen, was a married woman, and had been
sent by her husband to learn to be educated,
and Martha Cowper used to help her in the
composition of letters to her husband which,
notwithstanding this assistance, were generally
returned with many corrections.
	A tour in Scotland with her scientific
brother, when she was nineteen, was Miss

[Column 2]
Cowper’s first experience of a wider world.
They went to the Island of Bute amongst
other places, and her sympathy with her fel-
lows was as keen then as in later years.
Twenty years afterwards when she visited the
island with her husband, an old woman recog-
nized her as she was comforting a crying child,
and said, “I am sure you must be Miss Cowper
by the way you talk to that child.” Space
does not allow us to do more than refer either
at this or a later period of her life, to the
numberless instances of the kindness of her
heart that are remembered in the family, but
one instance is worthy of special mention at
this stage. When Poland was fighting for
freedom and all England was watching the
struggle, Martha Cowper and her sister, pocket
money running short, melted down a silver tea-
pot and sent the proceeds to aid the Poles in
their grand fight for national life. The great
issues of contemporary history al-
ways deeply moved her. The French Re-
volutions of 1830 and 1848, the Crimean War,
the American struggle for Union against Se-
cession, the Franco German War, were all
eagerly followed by her with the interest of a
true liberal, who always hoped that good
might come out of the terrible evils of war.
But modern politics—though she followed
them just as closely—did not win her entire
sympathy. Her fresh nature, only desirous of
good; was impatient of all the compromises
and concessions which the politician of to-day
thinks necessary to progress.
	Both parents died in Martha’s childhood, and
on their death the children were placed in
charge of an aunt living in London. Under
the influence of a large library, Miss Cowper’s
taste for books developed into a passion for
reading of every kind, and she remained an
omnivorous reader for the rest of her life. Her
judgment of books was always sound and her
criticisms keen and suggestive. Though often
she seemed to dip and skim in somewhat butter-
fly fashion, she always seized and retained the
pith of the book she had in hand. But her
self-culture, remarkable as it was, was subor-
dinated to her interest in others, an interest
that was unfailingly shown in kindness and
help and encouragement, and all what she
would call “selfish” work was set aside when
any good work was on hand. One of the
great events of her young life was a winter in
Paris in 1825. She was, as she says in one of
her notes, “alternately struck with the beauty
of Paris and its inconveniences.” The grand
palaces, the beautiful gardens, the brilliant
shops, the rush of daily life, and cheerful as-
pect of the population were all delightful to
her. But she adds, “the absence of the path-
ways and open drains in every street were most
unpleasant for pedestrians.” She witnessed an
ancient historical custom carried out for the
last time. She saw Charles X dine public as
the Kings of France were wont to do under
the ancien regime. She and her friends ob-
tained tickets, there was a great crowd of
gaily dressed people in the ante-chamber, the
doors of the Presence Chamber were thrown
open, and the sightseers were allowed to ad-
vance to a cordon only three feet from the roy-
al table where the King, the Duchess of Berri,
and the Duchess of Angoulême were dining off
a fish dinner (it was Friday) “amid a blaze of 
light, and with lovely music.” One of the
three royal diners, as Martha Cowper points one
in her notes, had been in the horrors of the
great French Revolution, and had shared with
her royal parents the imprisonment in the
Temple till their execution. Sight seeing did
not take up all the Paris time. Many days
were spent in visiting charitable institutions,
and a visit to the Deaf and Dumb establish-
ment was long remembered.
	Our space only permits of a mere sketch of
Mrs. Hill’s life, and we must pass over some

[Column 3]
uneventful years of quiet goodness to come to
the first and almost her last appearance as an
authoress. In 1833 she published in conjunc-
tion with the late Mr. William Ellis, a series of
stories and papers on familiar topics for
children under the title of “The Parents’ Cabi-
net.” The work was to her surprise a very
great success, and although it has now passed
into the hands of other publishers, it still has
a good sale under another title. The story
entitled “Frances Meadows; or Traits of
Character,” has especial interest to those who
knew Mrs. Hill, because the incidents related
really happened in her school, and the Frances
Meadows was herself.
	All the natural history papers are hers and
many of the tales. She used to tell a pretty
story of how she sent the first tale “Harry the
'Shrimper,” to her Collaborateur. Mr. Ellis for
approval. She held him in much reverence,
as well as esteem, and his critical fiat was to
her a judgment beyond appeal. “Well, my
dear," he said, when she saw him, “I cannot
conceive how you could write such a story
—” “There,” burst in Miss Cowper, “Mrs.
Ellis should not have shown it you, I told her
to send it back if it was too bad.” “My dear
young lady,” continued Mr. Ellis taking her
hand, “you should let me finish my sentences.
I was going on to say, ‘without your having
found out long ago your power of “story tell-
ing.” ’ ” It was not only Mr. Ellis who ap-
proved her work, good critic as he was; a
much better than he, the great Miss Edgeworth
herself with whom Mrs. Hill often corres-
ponded, wrote to express her approval and ad-
miration in most unreserved terms. Miss
Edgeworths’s criticisims were long and most
elaborate, and include valuable suggestions as
to the best form of children’s books; but we
have only space for one sentence as a specimen
of her appreciation of this particular work.
“I ought,” she says, “to be very jealous and en-
vious of you, my dear Miss Cowper, it it were
true that such evil feelings were always ex-
cited by the fear or the certainty of being sur-
passed, for assuredly I think you have sur-
passed me in my own line, or in that which I
wished to make my line.” These were most
gratifying words to receive from the authoress
of such tales for the young as “Forester” or
“Lazy Laurence;” but proud and happy as
they made Mrs. Hill, they did not give her
more pleasure than she subsequently found in
her distribution of all her profits in handsome
presents to her friends and children. Her keenest
pleasure always lay in adding to the pleasure
of those around her.
	Mrs. Hill’s marriage took place in 1840. Her
husband was then Inspector of Prisons for
Scotland, and they lived for some years in Ed-
inburgh. Mrs. Hill’s life in the northern capi-
tal was a very happy and useful one. Socially
she had the pick of what was, intellectually
speaking, one of the best societies in the world,
and she formed friendships then which were
possessions for life. Such men as John Hill
Burton, the two Coombes, Mr. Nimmo, James
Simpson, the two Chambers; such women as
Mrs. Fletcher and Miss Sterling Graham, were
amongst her friends. But she never allowed
the pleasures of society to interfere with the
work of her life. She went the round of the
prisons with her husband, helped in all his
many schemes of reform, and stopped many a
a career of crime by her kind help and en-
couragement to better courses. She used to
follow her prison friends’ subsequent career, and
had many stories of their success in honest
labor. She was fond of the saying of one man
who attributed his change to the Prison Ma-
tron, who, he said, “so mithered him that he
could not go wrong.” And she would repeat
too late for me to mend, but I hope my poor
children will be taught better.”
	She was a strong and very early advocate of


[Column 1]

substitution of useful work for treadmill labor
in prisons, and she rejoiced when her husband
was able to introduce this reform in the prisons
under his charge. Working overtime, as a
means by which prisoners could earn a little
money for themselves, was an arrangement in-
troduced into all the Scottish prisons,and Mrs.
Hill's family still possesses needlework sewn
in overtime by some of the women in whom
she was interested. We cannot in this space
enumerate all she did. But her sympathy was
boundless and never rested until it found an
outlet in practical good. The industrial
Schools of Aberdeen—the first Industrial
Schools ever started—founded and carried on
by Sheriff Watsonrwere one of Mrs. Hill's es-
pecial hobbies,and their founder was one of her
warmest friends. They were day schools, ad-
mission to which was voluntary, where the
children were taught not only the ordinary
elments of education, but also to make nets for
the Aberdeen fishermen (their chief source of
profit), to mend their clothes and shoes, and to
work in the garden. Juvenile begging and
juvenile crime practically ceased in Aberdeen.
	One of Mrs. Hill's favorite theories was that
the world in its schemes, whether of reformation
of criminals, or of improvement of mankind
generally, did not take proper count of three
powerful factors, love, sympathy, kindness. If
all natures were like hers, if the highest
pleasure were found by all as it was
found by her in doing the greatest
good, if all could understand and lighten the 
the cares of others as she could, those factors
would indeed be powerful. Whilst she fully
valued all philanthropic associations, she sat
little on committees. She thought men did
that sort of work better than women. But she
also thought the best work of all was done-
when the sexes worked together in cordial co-
operation, each doing that for which the sex
was best flitted. Perhaps her sphere of good
would have been wider if she had taken a
more active part in the direction of philan-
thropic societies. But she never failed to uti-
lize their organizations when she could, whilst
she constantly sought out cases of individual
suffering. Her keen sympathy thus found
plenty of scope in unceasing though unobtru-
sive good work, which would have been neces-
sarily curtailed if her time had been taken up
by committees.
	Whilst she always maintained that wemen
in their choice of independent work should
never forget the graces of life and all home
duties that fell to their lot, she held equally
strongly that wemen, as regards their work in
life, and their opportunities of self-mainten-
ance, were held in a restraint and subjection
that was most unjust. An old friend, the late
Dr. Birkbeck, once found her when a girl deep
in a book on woman’s rights. "My dear," he
said, "do you agree with these opinions?"
"Yes," replied Martha Cowper. "So do I,"
whispered the doctor, "but mind you don't tell
anybody what you think, or you will never
get a husband." "Then," retorted the girl, "I
never will marry."
	No account of Mrs.Hill would be complete that
omitted to mention her interest in education,
especially the education of the very young.
Mere mechanical teaching by rote and routine
was her abomination. To train the infantile
mind by observation of Nature and constant
explanation of all the simple phenomena of
life was her modus operandi. As usual she put
her theories into practice herself, and her own
children and grand children, and all the little
ones who had the privilege of being within her
circle remember with pleasure her object les-
sens, her clearness of exposition and her wealth
of illustration.
	She sent her own children to the first Kin-
dergarten started in England, and at the same
time was thus enabled to aid two struggling

[Column 2]

German refugees who sought a livelihood by
starting the then novel system. Her love aud
knowlege of natural history influenced her
educational theories, and no school was perfect
in her idea where the pupils were not all taught
to observe and understand the nature that sur-
rounded them. She gave prizes innumerable
for collections of flowers and other natural ob-
jects.
	The last thirty years of her life were spent
in Hampstead, where Mr. Hill resided after his
appointment to the post office. But the change
of scene did not change her interests. Her
life was spent in good work up to the very last.
Indeed her enthusiasm, her disbelief in any hu-
man badness beyond remedy, her profound be-
lief in human perfectibility seemed only to in-
creasewith age. One of her friends writes of
her: "Dear Mrs. Hill's persistent belief in
everything that was good and beautiful was a
magic that lent its glamor to all that
surrounded her. A chat with her reconciled
you to the world and seems to have cleared
away all thought of evil and dread of harm."
	We must close this little memoir. We had
much more to tell, but we must put it by for
some other occasion.  Our picture is but im-
perfect; but it will serve to recall a bright and
happy presence to those who knew her, and it
will be only the fault of the writer if it does
not present to those who did not know her the
image of a good life and a beautiful nature.
The world was the better for her presence while
she lived: we hope it may be the better for her
example now she is gone.—Englishwoman's Re-
view.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


Hope is the great reformer; we must instil this
into men's minds if we wish to cultivate their
virtues or enable them to overcome their vices.
—Horatio Seymour.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Miss Zella Webb, who departed this
life September 28th, 1887, at Provo City, Utah County,
Utah.
	Whereas; In the providence of an Alwise God, He has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved sister, Zella
Webb, who has suffered with patient endurance, and,
Whereas, We are called to mourn the loss of a dear
friend and co-laborer in the work of Mutual Improvement;
one who has always been a faithful member, willing to re-
spond to every requirement made of her by the Associa-
tion; and,
Whereas, Her long suffering has been purifying and en-
nobling, and, as an example to all, will ever be one worthy
of imitation. Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of the First Ward, Provo City, realize the loss of so faith-
ful a member.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy and condolence
to the sorrow-stricken family and friends, hoping that the
Spirit of the Almighty will comfort them in their sad hour
of affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be fur-
nished the family, Territorial Enquirer, WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and kept in the records of the Association.
		HANNAH BILLINGS,
		EVA BILLINGS,
		GRACE BEE,
			Committee on Resolutions.

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	It is with feelings of great sorrow that we record the
death of Sister Mary Stahle, beloved daughter of John and
Susan Stahle, born Nov 17th, 1865, and died Aug 11th
1887, of brain fever, at Bountiful, Utah.
	She was always cheerful and pleasant, and her bright
smile won her friends wherever her lot was cast. She died
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His wisdom has see


fit to call from our midst our much loved and respected sis-
ter, Mary, and,
	Whereas, Our departed friend and associate was worthy
our highest regard and affection, her labors in our Associa-
tion having been faithfully performed, also in the Sunday
School, we feel that some proper recognition of her virtues
be had among us. Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Association, deep-
ly mourn the loss of so valuable and faithful a co-laborer.
Resolved, That we hereby extend our heart-felt sympathy
and condolence to her parents, brothers and sisters, also to
her promised husband, in the loss of so true a companion,
and we condole with each other in this sad affliction.
Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to her relatives, that one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT for publication, and also placed on the Young Ladies'
record.
	Oh, Mary! thou art gone
		To a bright and happier shpere;
	Although thy spirit's departed
		Thy memory we cherish dear.

	True, you were your mother's darling,
		Also your father's pride, 
	But God saw fit to take you
		Ere you became a bride.

	But, Sister Mary, never mind,
		A work for thee is done;
	Your husband, in God's Temple, 
		Received thee as his chosen one.

				JANF HOLT,
				ESTHER SESSIONS,
	[Committee.]	PRISCILLA GARRETT,
				ANNIE A. BOYNTON,
				SARAH L. DAVIS,


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 305, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT  TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights  of the Women of all Nations.

