"The Primary Journal," Vol. 1. No. 4, Motto,
"Chastity and Virtue," by Miss Rosa Bailey,
Editress. The programme was carried out,
consisting of songs, recitations and essays, the
children performing their parts very creditably,
and showing that there was excellent talent to
be developed among the little people; the sing-


[column 1]
ing, especially, was very fine, and it was very
gratifying to observe the great pains taken by
the officers of the Associations in the training
of these little ones in the paths of reghteousness.
The officers of the P. A. of the Stake were
sustained by the vote of the conference as
they stood, and also those of the several Prim-
aries in the wards, except in the South Ward
of Nephi, Sister Maggie Jenkins having re-
signed; her resignation was accepted, and a
vote of thanks tendered her for her faithful
services. Sister Jane Booth was nominated
and sustained as President in place of Sister
M. Jenkins, resigned, with Ann Jared and
Stella Neff as Counselors.
The conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Open the door for the
children.” Benediction by Elder H. McCune.

Y. L. JUAB STAKE.
The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of Juab
Stake convened in the meeting house at Nephi,
at 2 p.m., Mrs, Matilda E. Teasdale presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Elder H.
McCune, and the choir sang, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.” Minutes of the 20th
quarterly conference were then read and ap-
proved; also reports from the several Y. L.
Associations in the Stake.
Opening remarks by Prest Teasdale, suited
to the occasion, and calculated to awaken an
interest in the young sisters to improve and
obtain a knowledge of those things which
would exalt, refine and purify them. Song,
“The Gipsy’s Child,” sung by one of the young
ladies in a very touching manner. The Manu-
script paper, entitled, “The Young Ladies’
Journal,” was read by Miss Louie Udall in a
very clear voice, and with excellent expression.
“The Organ Builder” was eloquently recited.
Miss Schofield, President Nephi Y. L., made
some excellent remarks, and urged upon the
young the necessity of improvement.
Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the meeting on
the subject of education and the cultivation of
the highest and holiest attributes of the human
soul.
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, President of the Central
Board of Y. L. M. I. A., occupied most of the
afternoon in giving instruction to the young
ladies. Wanted them to feel the importance
of attending their meetings, and inproving
their time and talents, and puttiug their talents
to usury, and the reward would be sure.
Urged the necessity of a testimony to the truth
of the Gospel; if they could obtain that, they
might be able to stand the trials of the times
in which we live and which are prophesied of.
Advised them in reference to choosing a com
panion for life; said, “Let the man you choose
be a man of God, who will be pure; make
virtue and purity more than your life. If you
do not choose such a husband, you will be
more or less contaminated; ‘Evil communica-
tions corrupt good manners;' cultivate polite-
ness, courtesy, kindness and love.” .Recom-
mended cheerfulness; liked to see the young
glad and joyous, but the house of God should
not be desecrated by trivolous behavior. “Do
I know this Gospel is true? Yes, I know it
beyond the shadow of contradiction.”
Urged the girls to read the newspapers and
study politics; spoke of the suffrage, and said,
“When women have the right to vote they will
not have many rum-holes, because they natur-
ally are pure. Learn housekeeping; make
home and father and mother happy; cultivate
flowers; encourage a love for the beautiful; I
wish I could set you all down in Golden Gate
Park in San Francisco, to behold its beauty; it
is a most beautiful sight and you would enjoy
it.” In regard to marrying outside the Church,
said to the girls, “Don’t let it be the case with
any of you.” Encouraged the young to be
married in the house of the Lord and begin
life right. “Perform well all duties; see that
[column 2]
your reports are correct and in readiness at
the proper time.” Spoke of the Stake Fund;
that each branch should give 50 cts a year in
to the Stake Treasury for public purposes,
stationery and other uses; thought the young
ladies should have a separate organization,
but conjoint meetings might be held monthly;
knew it was the feelings of the brethren and of
Sister Snow Smith, that they should be or-
ganized separately.
Prest. Teasdale expressed her pleasure in
seeing so large a congregation, and that there
had been such good instruction given; hoped
all would renew their diligence, and labor
faithfully in the time to come.
Officers of the Stake Y. L. M. I. A. and of
the several Associations in the Stake were
unanimously sustained, and conference was ad-
journed for three months. Singing, “Utah,
the Queen of the West.” Prayer by Patriarch
J. G. Bigler.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SUCCESSFUL SURPRISE.

	Last night the Fourth Ward school house
was made the scene of an enjoyable entertain-
ment given in honor of Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
President of the Relief Society in this County.
The affair was arranged by the Fourth Ward
Society, under the direction of Mrs Marianna
Stratford, President, and her counselors, Mrs.
Maria Chambers and Mrs. Elizabeth Parkinson;
and they were supported in the plan by Mrs.
L. W. Shurtlift, counselor to the Relief Sociey
stake presidency. The entertainment was a
complete surprise to Mrs. Richards and her
family. They were invited to be present as it
to attend a meeting, and when Mrs. Richards
discovered the real nature of the gathering she
was overcome by emotion
	Speeches, songs, instrumental music and
brief addresses filled the time except when the
company was at the supper tables. Every
feature of the picnic and entertainment was a
success. Apostle Richards was present and
made some instructive remarks.
	An eloquent and touching address was read
to Mrs. Richards. It was signed by the offi
cers and members of the Fourth Ward Re-
lief Society and it expressed the love and con-
fidence of all in Mrs. Richards. A tasteful
little memento accompanied the address. Mrs.
Richards responded toward the close of the
entertainment with words well-chosen and full
of gentleness and help.
	The surprise was a success in every way, and the
ladies who managed it are to be congratulated
upon the good taste with which the affair was
conducted.— Ogden Herald.
	Oct. 20, 1887.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Sawyer, wife of the Mayor of Lincoln,
was recently admitted to the bar of Nebraska.

	Mrs. Myra Bradwell has for the eighteenth
year prepared for publication the session laws
of Illinois.

	Miss Mary Tillinghurst, who has designed a
painted window for a church in New York, is
said to be the first American woman em-
ployed in ecclesiastical work. She is the same
lady who was paid a fabulous sum by Vander-
bilt for some tapestry hangings.

	Miss Phoebe Cousens, just appointed marshal
of the U.S. Court in St. Louis, is the first
woman who ever held such a place. She is
appointed by Justice Miller to succeed her


father, and it is thought that the President
will make her tenure permanent.—Ex.

	The Woman's Congress, of which Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe is President, will meet in Masonic
Temple, New York on the 26th, 27th and 28th
insts. Sorosis and the New York Local Com-
mittee to the A. A. W. are making great pre-
parations to entertain the Congress, and
an enjoyable as well as useful week
is anticipated. All women who expect to attend,
whether members or not, are requested to send
their names to Mrs. Geo. W. Townsend, 351
Pearl Street, New York. The publications of
tho Association are no longer mailed to those
whose dues are in arrears.


OBITUARY.
	DIED, at Gunnison, Sanpete Co., Utah, October 17th,
1887, Sarah Copley, daughter of John and Ellen Gilmer,
and widow of John Copley. She was born May 10th,
1818, in Lanarkshire, Scotland; was baptized in 1847, by
Elder Wm. Livingstone, at Ardry, Scotland; kept an open
house for the Elders in Dundee Branch from 1850 until she
emigrated to Utah in 1863; moved to Gunnison in 1866.
Was President of the Gunnison Relief Sociery from June
28th, 1875, until the day of her death   To the sick and the
needy she has made herself especially endeared; through
her sympathy for the sufferings of others, she had a keen
eye to observe where help was needed, and her kind heart
and willing hand administered it with Saintly discretion.
She died a firm believer in all the principles of the Gospel.
										H. M.
	Gunnison, Oct. 28th, 1887.


R. K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. David James. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS,	TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
