VOL. 16.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1888			NO. 18.


﻿SO LET IT BE.

Ah yes, it must be better so I
The jarring chord too well 1 know,
Into the anthem, deep and grand,
Which my soul strives to understand,
It creeps, and drowns the heavenly strain,
And wakes to life the old, old pain.
And ’tis not fair that I should bring
Its echo in your ears to sing.
I thought that I might draw from you
A little strength, some courage true,
Born of a friendship nobly blest.
Forgive me, friend, God knoweth best,
No more my woes shall worry thee;
I'll ask not e’en thy sympathy.
						—Inter-Ocean-


SOME DAY.

"Some day," we say and turn our eyes
Toward the fair hills of Paradise.

Some day, some time, a sweet new rest
Shall blossom, flower-like, in each breast.

Some time, some day, our eyes shall see
The faces kept in memory.

Some day their hands shall clasp our hands
Just over in the Morning Lands.

Some day our ears shall hear the song
Of triumph over sin and wrong.

Some day, some time, but oh! not yet,
But we will wait and not forget,

That some day all these things shall be,
And rest be given to you and me.

So wait, my friend, though years move slow,
The happy time will come we know.
							—Selected.


WHY STAIN THE SILVER, CROWN?

	Above the calm, fair, holy face
		Of my dear mother shines
	A halo, which to me the worth 
		And wealth of years combines.
	The love and toil of many years,
		Past seventy, and now,
	Deep furrows cross the once round cheek,
		And grace the once smooth brow.

	That halo rich of whitening hair
		Yet daily seems to grow	
	More glorious, as it changes still,
		To sheen of purest snow.
	Ah! let its change be nature’s own.
		No touch of earth’s renown;  T
	Nor seek to bring the gold tint back—
		Stain not my Mother’s Crown !

	There’s now and then a case we find
		Of hair that does not bleach,
	But Why, the Master does not tell.
		And science cannot teach.
	Where thus kind fortune deigns to smile,
		I’d be the last to frown;
	I think such aged ones, by right,
		May wear the youthful crown.

	Or where lay weight of time and toil,
		Of pain, or anxious care,
	The natural covering drops off,
		And leaves the frontal bare;
	For comfort, and for looks as well,
		like donning cloak or gown,
	'Tis highly proper such should wear
		A fitting purchased crown.


But when I see a furrowed face,
	With glossy locks above,
Died richly, golden, brown or black,
	Perchance by hands of love,
I wonder whence the fancy comes,
	And ask, with heart cast down,
"Why dim the honor age should bring?
	Why stain the silver crown?"

My own locks now are turning grey,
	I do not take it hard;
Near forty hears of life on earth
	Should merit such reward.
And when a few more years have passed,
	And faded all the brown,
When I have earned it, let me wear
	My own bright silver crown.
							LULA.


﻿REVERIE.
	I am sitting by the fire alone to-night, and
while gazing into the bright flame and glowing
embers, my mind calls up, one after another,
fond pictures of days that are gone, faces and
forms of beloved ones of the long ago, those
whom I have loved and whose presence blesses
me no more.
	I can see in the misty past myself as a little
child, surrounded by a band of affectionate
brothers and sisters, and the dear parents, whose
loving protection banished every care from my
heart. Oh! the sweet relief, when little troubles
filled my childish soul with woe, to find com-
fort on my dear mother’s lap, to hear the words
Of consolation that fell from her lips. The
troubles of maturer years are not so easily
reconciled.
	How well I remember those happy days in
the old orchard, picking fruit, climbing and
swinging among the trees, and later on, the
pleasant strolls in the'deep grass and fragrant
shade with dear friends of my girlhood, until
each particular spot seems sanctified with
precious memories. Then, too, memory recalls
the playful pranks of hide and seek in the old
rooms, chasing up and down stairs, starting out
of dark corners with mimic fright, and many
other joyous pranks, which the futile mind of
youth produces. What merry voices and gay
laughter used to fill the old home; but those
days passed only too quickly, and separation
from home and friends came only too soon; and
what changes a few short years bring—youth
grown to manhood, and dark and glossy hairs
have turned to grey. The old home is occu-
pied by strangers now, and one by one the
oved ones go to rest, some in ripe old age,
some, alas! in youth and beauty, and others
still in budding childhood, and cares and
sorrow already wrinkle the brow that then
glowed with light heartedness and joy.
	In gazing into the fire my mind is so busy
with the scenes and friends of the past that I
fancy myself among them again. I can hear
the gentle voice of my darling mother in words,
of advice and admonition, and the mingled
tones of merry friends I loved. I turn from
the flame to realize that they are all scattered.
Some are happy, loving parents, while others,
fate has dealt with less kindly, and some, too,
haye wandered from the path of rectitude.
Truly life is a chequered dream, and though
old-time friends have passed away, new ones
are found, little forms and faces take the places
of those who are gone; and the hurrying patter
of little feet, and the sound of childish voices,


require me to live in the present and quit the
past. But I am thankful for the half hour I
have had with my childhood’s home and
friends.	
					AUNT POLLY.
	Salt Lake City, January, 1888.


THE MIND.
	The mind is the intelligent part in man, the 
understanding, the soul. It is a great power
which our Heavenly Father has given us to im-
prove and educate; a store-house in which to 
garner all knowledge gained on this earth, for
future use. The Doctrine and Covenants
teaches us that intelligence is the glory of God,
or, in other words, light and knowledge.
	We come upon the earth in a very helpless
state; our minds are almost a blank; the only
thing we understand is that most ancient of all
language, “the cry.” But see how the mind
of the babe grasps a knowledge of all things
passing around it, both in actions and in words;
see the great amount of knowledge it gains
and brings into active use in the short period
of two years; it can walk, talk, and imitate al-
most every action of its associates, and make 
practical use of its knowledge. It has confi-
dence in the words of older people, and has no
desire to do evil, or to gain riches, but merely
a desire to gain knowledge and become great, 
large and old, as its companions are. When 
the child becomes acquainted with its surround-
ings, its mind is still open to receive intelli-
gence, and if its mind is not occupied in some-
thing useful or not useful at home, so as to be
contented, it will seek for something away
from home, in the street, or wherever it is to
be found, good or bad, it mattereth not to the 
child at this tender age, so it satisfies the crav-
ings of the mind, just as food satisfies the
cravings of the stomach.
	My dear sisters, this is the time to place be-
fore the minds of our children everything good,
noble and of an elevating character, and im-
plant the moral education which is so necessary
for every man and woman to have to direct
the path of their future lives, for as the ball is
directed by the first four feet of its course by
its passage through the gun barrel, so, also, in
most cases, are the actions of men and women
by the training they receive in their youth.
God has told us very plainly that parents hav-
ing children in Zion, or in any of her stakes,
which are organized, who teach them not to un-
derstand the doctrine of repentance, faith in
Christ, the Son of the living God, and of bap-
tism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sins
will be upon the heads of the parents; and they
shall also teach their children to pray and walk
uprightly before the Lord. 
	The moral education is by far the most
necessary; it should be as a motive power to di-
rect all our actions; without it scientific knowl-
edge may prove a curse instead of a blessing.
But add to a moral training a thorough educa-
tion of the arts and sciences, and all other use-
ful knowledge, both mental and physical, then 
we have it in our power to do the greatest
amount of good, and we are approaching
nearer to the perfect man or woman God de-
signed us to be.
	All are interested in their children and their 
welfare, but all do not see nor understand alike.
We should not allow our children to spend


their time in idleness, but keep them constant-
ly employed in something useful, and always
remember fine clothes will wear out, pleasant
sights and scenes will fade from memory, fleet-
ing pleasures will soon be a thing of the past,
but time aud money spent in gaining a useful
education, will build a  foundation of everlast-
ing happiness and profit, which will pay an
honest interest both in time and eternity. It
will bring riches which can never be taken
from us; will make us useful in society, agree-
able companions, and is the only thing gained
upon this earth which we are permitted to take
with us when we die. 	
	We must understand the mind grows by
what it is fed upon, and the brain, the seat of.
the mind, is sustained by the growth of the
body, and the body grows by good food, fresh
air, and work and rest in suitable proportions;
hence, in our endeavors to improve and store
the mind, we should be equally interested in
the health and growth of the body. Sleep is
as necessary to the mind as food, for during the
day the process of tearing down goes on, and
during the night the process of building up
should restore the loss. Children require more
sleep than grown people, as the child has to
build the structure and keep up repairs at the
same time. Children often require more food
than grown people.
	The Lord has given us rules regarding our
food, and among them we find that hot drinks
are not good for man, neither are strong drinks
good for man, and tobacco is not good for man,
but was intended as a medicine for sick cattle.
Thus the Lord, in His mercy, has removed all
doubt on these subjects, and we should be very
diligent as mothers in Israel in teaching these
things in plainness to our children. The fol-
lowing I copy from “The Child’s Health
Primer:”
	“Tobacco is not good for man, but there is a
very good reason why it is worse for boys. If
you were going to build a house, would it be
wise for yoif to put in the stonework of the
cellar something that would make it less strong?
Something in the brickwork or the mortar, the
woodwork or the nails, the walls or the chim-
neys, that would make them weak and tottering
instead of strong and steady? It would be
bad enough if you should repair your house
with poor material, but surely it must be built
in the first place with the best material you
can get.
	“Wise doctors have said that the boy who
used tobacco while he is growing makes every
part of the body less strong than it otherwise
would be. Tobacco, in any form is an enemy
to youth; it stunts the growth, hurts the mind,
and cripples in every way the boy or girl w[--]
uses it.”
	The brain, the seat of thought, is placed
above all the other organs of the body, and is
calculated to control and dictate the passions
and desires. Hence, when we come to the un-
derstanding that such things are injurious to
our bodies, we should listen to the voice of
reason and let them severely alone, governing
our appetites, not letting our appetites govern
us. God designed that the mind,should govern
the body, and that we should control our
thoughts, words, actions, and everything con-
nected with them, and bring them into subjec-
tion to His revealed will. The powers of the
mind are beyond our comprehension; the more
we learn the more we can learn and the faster
and more capable we are to learn.
	We often hear people remark that a certain
young man has finished his education; but he
has merely  learned the rudiments or rules
whereby he is enabled to go on learning as long
as life lasts. None should consider his or her
education finished while life and reason lasts,
for the opportunities for increasing our knowl-
edge will not end with this life, but will extend
into eternity, according to the word of God.

[column 2]
	We, as mothers, should lay a broad founda-
tion upon the rock of revelation for each of
our children to build upon in the future, watch-
ing with all diligence, that nothing be allowed
to creep in to weaken or in any way mar the 
strength or beauty by our neglect.
							D. E. DUDLEY.
	Clifton, Feb. 6, 1888.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEANS OF PRESERVING HEALTH
		AND CURING DISEASE.

A LECTURE DELIVERED BY PRESIDENT J.
	M. HOWELL, IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY
	MEETING, HELD AT CLIFTON, JUNE,
	1887.
	
	Our bodies are made in harmony with certain
laws, and every person should learn them, in
order to regulate his or her actions and duties,
so that health may be preserved, and the powers
of enjoyment and usefulness continue while life
lasts.
	First. It is a law of the bones and muscles
that they should either be used in some kind of
labor, or called into action by social play or
healthful sport. 
	Second. All admit that food is necessary to 
sustain life; and unless it be of a proper kind,
taken in proper quantities and at proper times,
the digestive organs will be deranged and pro-
duce disease.
	Third. Pure air is essential to the full en-
joyment of good health. If you breathe impure
air, you may not immediately feel the effects of
it, yet it is a violation of the physical laws, and 
sooner or later you will pay the penalty in dis-
ease and suffering.
	Fourth. The body also requires sleep; and if
it be not taken at the right time, or with rugu-
larity, we do not feel full refreshment. Let
the youth of Zion be taught that "early to bed
and early to rise" gives them health and all its
attendant blessings. The brain, like other 
organs of the body, should be called into ac-
tion at proper times. The office of the skin is
to remove the impure and worn out particles
of matter from the body; it is very important
that it should be bathed often to keep it clean
and the pores open. This is very important in 
the preservation of health. It is seldom neces-
sary to employ a doctor in the common diseases
we have to contend with, especially in the first 
stages. In all instances of disease it is proper
to rest not only the body, but the mind. The 
patient should cease her physical labor, and 
also withdraw her mind from study and business;
this should be done even if the patient is but
slightly ill. The sick room should be roomy
and as little exposed to outside noise as possible,
as noise and confusion greatly excite the 
nervous system. The sick room should be well
ventilated, and have no unnecessary furniture.
Care should be taken in regulating the light of 
the sick room; a strong light will produce an
increased action of the brain, while a moderate
light will stimulate this organ. Sick persons
should not be disturbed by too many visitors.
It is very important in cold, and in fact all dis-
eases, that the skin be kept clean. If the 120
or 130 ounces of waste, hurtful matter that
passes through the pores of the skin in twenty-
four hours, are not removed by frequent bath-
ing and dry rubbing, it deranges the vessels
that separate this waste matter from the blood,
and thus increases the disease of the inside
organs. Every sick person should breathe
pure air; the purer the blood that courses
through the body, the greater the energy of
the system to remove the disease.
	It requires knowledge and practice to
properly nurse the sick. Woman, from her
constitution and habits, is the natural nurse of
the sick, and in this Church no small portion
of her time is spent in ministering at the bed

[Column 2]
of disease and suffering. No girl should con-
sider her education complete who is not ac-
quainted with the principles of the duties of a
nurse or the laws of health. The nurse, before
commencing to bathe the patient, should pro-
vide herself with water, two towels, a sponge, a 
piece of soft flannel and a sheet. Use tepid or
warm water; apply the wet sponge to one part
of the body at a time; by so doing the danger
of taking cold is lessened; take a dry, soft
towel, wipe the bathed part, and follow this by
a vigorous rubbing with a bath towel; then use
briskly a piece of soft flannel, to remove all
moisture that may exist on the skin, and par-
ticularly between the fingers and underneath
the joints. But before using the sponge to 
bathe, a sheet or fold of cloth should be spread
smoothly over the bed and under the patient,
to prevent the bed clothes on which the patient
is from becoming damp or wet. In this manner
the entire body should be bathed an least once
every twenty-four hours. The practice of
daubing the face and hands with a towel
dipped in hot rum, camphor and vinegar does
not remove the impurities, but causes the skin
to soon feel dry, hard and uncomfortable.
	The diet of the sick should be simple, and
should be prepared in a neat and careful man-
ner. In ventilating the sick room great care
should be taken that the patient does not feel
the draught or current. Bed linen, as well as
that of the body, should be aired every day,
and oftener changed in sickness than in health. 
All clothing, when changed, should be well
dried and warmed by a fire previous to its be-
ing put on the patient or bed. The tempera-
ture of the sick room should be moderate; if
the room is kept too warm, the patient will be
weakened, and is more liable to take cold on
leaving the sick room. The movements of the 
nurse should be gentle and noiseless. Shutting
doors violently, creaking hinges, and all un-
necessary noise should be avoided. Whisper-
ing in the sick chamber is more annoying than
a common tone. The remarks of the nurse to
the patient should always be encouraging.
Never speak of the illness of a friend or a re-
cent death in the sick room.
	The nurse should not confine herself to the
sick room too long at a time. She should eat
her food regularly, have sufficient sleep, and
take exercise daily in the open air. There is
but little danger of contracting disease if the 
nurse attends to the simple laws of health, and
remains not more than six hours at a time in
the sick room. Watchers should always eat
supper before entering the sick room. Alcohol, 
whiskey, tea and coffee should never be used
as a stimulant in times of sickness or in
health.
	Now, in connection with our works, faith
should be exercised also; faith in God our 
Heavenly Father, and in His promises, that if
we will keep the word of wisdom we shall be
healthy and strong, and the destroying angel
shall pass by our doors and will not have
power to take our little ones from us. When 
we have need of physicians send for the Elders
who hold a portion of the holy priesthood,
which is the power to act in the ordinances of
the house of God, and exercise faith in the
promises of God, being humble and prayerful
at all times. Never forget to thank God for 
His mercies on such occasions, and give Him
the glory


﻿Miss Susan B. Anthony had a hearing before
the House Judiciary Committee at Washington,
Tuesday, Feb. 8.
	Mary Howitt who has just died at the age of
eighty-four, was a very small woman with a
very sweet sweet face. She translated Fred-
erika Bremer’s works, and wrote many charm-
ing stories for children. She was born a
Quaker and died a Roman Catholic.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IF A MAN DIE SHALL HE LIVE
			AGAIN?

Yes, I believe in God; therefore endeavor
	To do His holy will from day to day;
And when the time shall come that He shall sever
	This vital spark of life from lump of clay;
Thanks be to Him, I know 'tis not forever
	There still remains a vital spark, a ray
That shall again re-animate this clod,
And in my flesh I know I shall see God.

And wherefore can a man such knowledge gain?
	Doth God reveal it? 'Tis written if we ask
In faith believing, we need not ask in vain,
	And yet how few that undertake the task.
Is not the great jehovah able to make plain
	All things pertaining to this, our mortal frame?
And can He not unite, as well as sever,
And let our souls, in bodies, live forever.
									A. A. TANNER.
Oakley, Idaho, Feb. 7, 1888.


WHEN THE SONG GOES OUT OF
				YOUR LIFE.

	When the song’s gone out of your life, you can’t start
another while it’s a-ringing in your ears, but it’s best to
have a bit of silence, and out o’ that may be, a psalm'll
come by-and-by.—Edward Garrett,

		When the song’s gone out of your life,
			That you thought would last to the end;
		That first sweet song of the heart,
			That no after days can lend;
		The song of the birds to the trees,
			The song of the wind to the flowers,
		The song that the heart sings low to itself
			When it wakes in life’s morning hours:

		"You can start no other song,"
			Not even a tremulous note
		Will falter forth on the empty air,
			It dies in your aching throat.
		It is all in vain that you try,
			For the spirit of song has fled—
		The nightingale sings no more to the rose
			When the beautiful flower is dead.

		So let silence softly fall
			On the bruised heart’s quivering strings;
		Perhaps from the loss of all you may learn
			The song that the seraph sings;
		A grand and glorious psalm,	
			That will tremble, and rise, and thrill
		And fill your breast with its grateful rest,
			And its lonely warnings still.


INTERESTING PARTY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Marion, Idaho; is a part of the country better
known as Goose Creek. Our Society has been
organized about a year, before which time we
were a branch of the Oakley Society. We
have many good times together, and excellently
well attended meetings; we take the Exponent,
and reading from its columns forms a feature
of our gatherings.
	After introducing ourselves, we wish to tell
you, as briefly as possible, of a happy time we
recently enjoyed, the occasion being that of a
surprise party given Sister Susan K. Greene,
with whom many of your readers are well ac-
quainted.
	At a little before noon sixteen members of
the Relief Society alighted from their vehicles
at Sister Greene’s door, laden with lunch bas-
kets and cheery smiles.
	After the greetings were over, and all seated,
a hymn was sung. Prayer by Sister Clara
Smith, followed by singing, alter which the
following poem was read:		

		LINES
 ADDRESSED TO SISTER SUSAN, K.. GREENE, AT A
	SURPRISE PARTY. 
With joy we greet you, sister dear;
Respect and love have brought us here; 
[column 2]
With joy we come to give you cheer,	
   And show you our affection.

Your faith, which has all doubt defied,
Your many, many charms beside;	
You whom age has beautified,
   Command our close attention. 
	
That faith, through many trials, firm, 
Through it you do His will discern;
Through it a glory you will earn,
   E'en in the resurrection. 	

Though feeble now—your locks are gray—
No longer young, nor blithe, nor gay,
Yet to your children you're a ray
   Of daily consolation.

Their youthful joys you used to share,
In all their troubles you were there;
To cherish you is now their care,
   Yes, by their true devotion.

And friends to you now truer stand,
Yes, far and near, throughout the land, 
They hold to you a helping hand,
   And show appreciation.

Yet, though the body now is old,
The spirit's age has not been told;
'Twill soar, when death its wings unfold
   Unto its destination.

Unto its Father it will fly,
To dwell with Him in courts on high;
O, sweet the thought of by-and-by,
   When such will be your station.

And dear ones there will gather round,
Then friends long parted will be found;
O, sweet, so sweet will be the sound
   Of welcome salutation.

Shall we, O, sister dear, shall we
Among these blessed chosen be?
Shall we be favored and meet thee?
   It is for our selection.

That all your days may hence be peace,
That your good works may never cease,
And that your blessings may increase,
   Is the prayer of us your sisters. 
			LOUISA PICKETT,
		In behalf of the Relief Society.

	After the reading, the sisters presented Sister
Greene with a token of their love and appre-
ciation in the tangible form of a purse and its
contents.	
	Our President, Sister Fannie Gorringe, made
a few brief remarks bearing on the occasion of
our visit there.
	Sister Greene expressed her thanks to the
sisters for their remembrance, and the pleasure
afforded by their visit; also favored them with
her strong testimony of the truth, some inci-
dents of her experience, and much good coun-
sel and teaching, which we are always pleased
of having the opportunity to receive from one
so well qualified for giving instruction.
	Appropriate remarks followed by Sisters
Melissa Homer, Alice Tohnan, Clara Smith,
Annie Clark, Sarah E. Bates, Hattie Whitney
and Lavenia Bates. Another hymn was sung,
after which the tables were set, and all partook
of a bounteous repast.
	After spending an agreeable hour or so, a
closing hymn was sung, and the gathering
closed with prayer by Sister Greene. We de-
parted for our homes, each one feeling they had
spent a day long to be remembered.
		Truly your sisters,
			FANNIE GORRINGE, Prest.
			LOUSIA PICKETT, Sec.
	Marion, Idaho, Eeb. 6, 1888.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
				WOMEN.
	The programme of the International Council
of women to be held at Washington, D. C.,
from March 25 to April 1, 1888, is as follows:


﻿Saturday, March 24, 9 to 11 p.m.—Public
Reception.	
	Sunday, March 25, 2 p.m.—Invocation, Rev.
A. B. Blackwell. Sermon, Rev. Annie H.
Shaw.
	Monday, March 26, 10 a.m.—Prayer, Rev
A. B. Blackwell. Address, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton. 7.30 p.m.—Education. 
	Tuesday, March 27,10 a.m.—Philanthropies.
7.30	p.m.—Temperance.
	Wednesday, March 28,10 a.m.—Industries.
7.30	p.m.—Legal Conditions.
	Thursday, March 29,10 a. m.—Foreign Re-
ports. 7.30 p. m.—Professions and Organiza-
tions.
	Friday, March 30,10 a. m.—Woman Alone;
White Cross, etc. 7.30 p. m.—Political Con-
ditions.
	Saturday, March 31, a. m.—Pioneer Con-
ference. 7.30 p. m.—Political Conditions
(continued).
	Sunday, April 1,2 p.m.—Devotional Service,
Rev. Antoinette B. Blackwell, and others. 7.
30 p.m.—Rev. Olympia Brown, Mrs. Z. G.
Wallace. Closing Address, Mrs. Stanton.
	Most of the speakers for this occasion have
been heard from. It is hoped to give a list
with the names of those making the principal
addresses, next week. The present outlook
promises that this will be the most truly repre-
sentative gathering of women ever held.  
				RACHEL G. FOSTER,
			Sec. Com. of Arrangements.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.

			AN APPEAL.

READ THIS CAREFULLY, ACT UPON IT AND
		HAND IT TO YOUR FRIENDS.

	An International Council of Women, called
by the National Woman Suffrage Association,
will be held in Washington, D. C., opening
March 26, closing April 1, 1888. The objects
and character of the Council are indicated in
the accompanying call. It will be by far the
most important and influential gathering of
women that the world has ever seen.
	American women, especially those who sym-
pathize with contemporaneous movements for
the improvement of woman’s position in the
State, the Church and the Home, and in educa-
tional and industrial life, should not fail to
aid in insuring the complete success of this
great Internation Council. The expenses of
conducting the Council will be in proportion
to its magnitude and importance. The Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association assumes
the responsibility of the entertainment, during
the Council, of all accredited delegates from
American and Foreign organizations. To pro-
vide for these and for other necessary, expenses,
we expect from our friends more than their
usual liberality. Remember that no persons
have contributed more to the cause of woman’s
advancement than those who have given to it
their time and strength. If you are not so
situated that you can help by writing, by
speaking, or by active work, it is all the more
incumbent upon you to aid in the way that is
within your power, viz., by a contribution of
money. Will you not assist to the extent of
your ability? Money or pledges of large or
small amounts will be most acceptable.
	Persons may make themselves members of
the National Woman Suffrage Association, by
the payment of one dollar; all who do this will
be entitled to the full pamphlet report of the
procedings of the Council.
	All contributions and membership fees
should be sent to the Treasurer, Mrs. Jane H.
Spofforo, Riggs House, Washington, D. C., or
to the Chairman of the Special Finance Com-
mittee, Susan B. Anthony; Rochester, N. Y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	 Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	FFBRUARY 15,1888.


[column 1]
    FORTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
	 WOMAN SUFFRAGE MOVE-
				MENT.
	The International Council, which will be held
next month in Washington, D. C., and of which
we have already published several notices, is to be
a more elaborate sort of Jubilee for women than
was at first anticipated, even by the ladies who
planned the campaign. Miss Susan B. Anthony
has been interviewed by Washington reporters,
and has spoken quite wittily upon the subject.
	Dear Miss Anthony, whom all suffragists love
very dearly, has the most ready wit at her com-
mand, and reporters or interrogaters either never
get the best of her. We have always noticed,
whether on the platform or in the reception or
drawing-room, she always has an answer ready
for every satirist, and so cool and collected as to
preserve her womanly dignity under the most
trying circumstances Her courage and equan-
imity are unsurpassed. Such women as Miss
Anthony are rare, and in genuine originality she
equals any of the leaders in the suffrage cause.
Mrs. Stanton and Lucy Stone are, perhaps, more
motherly in their views and thoughts, but Miss
Anthony is a leader born, and carries both the
mothers and daughters along with her, fearlessly,
independently and without hesitation. Young
women look up to her as an oracle almost, and
her very manner gives prestige to her work. No
one who has ever seen Miss Anthony can help
noticing her peculiar face and figure, so positive
in its character, so remarkable in its outline; and
so emphatic is she in her declaration of right, and
denunciation of wrong, that she cannot fail to
impress her convictions upon the public.
	We venture to say this movement will forward
the suffrage for women that has been delayed al-
most everywhere for forty years, and that States
and Territories will, with renewed energy, take
up the subject and accomplish something credit-
able in favor of the ballot for women. The asso-
ciations to be represented are to be mostly of a
national character. Miss Anthony said to a Wash-
ington reporter, “When first we thought of hold
ing this woman’s jubilee none of us imagined we
should find more than half a dozen Nationally
organized associations of women, and the Secre-
tary tells me we have sent out to associations
nearly forty official invitations.”
	The question then asked Miss Anthony was.
“Have you invited only nationally organized bodies
of women?” Miss Anthony’s reply was, “That
has been our rule so far as invitations are con-
cerned. Besides these, we have invited a number
of distinguished women to speak on various kinds
of unorganized work. For instance take the various
professions. We have women physicians, lawyers
ministers, publishers, editors. No associations
of women in these lines of work exist, yet they
must be heard of at our council if we wish to
make it anything approaching a complete picture
of what women have done and are doing. So we
[column 2]
have invited women who are acquainted from
practice with these professions.” From this one
may gather a little what the nature of the Council
will be.
	By letter from Mrs. Spofford, the Treasurer, we
learn that the price for the use of Albaugh’s Opera
House will be $1,800, but she says, “The largest
churches here will not hold the people that come
to our regular meetings.”
	The programme, of the International Counci
was not quite complete at the latest information
we received, but among the delegates from nation-
ally organized bodies of women in this country
are Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Mrs. Lucy Stone,
Miss Francis Willard, Mrs. Caroline Buell, Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe, Miss Mary F. Eastman and
Miss Clara Barton. The Western Association of
Collegiate Alumnae send their President, the
eminent microscopist of the Michigan University,
Louise Reed Stowell. Mrs. Frazier will represent
the Moral Education Society. Mrs. Laura Mc-
Neir, the ladies of the G. A. R. Rev. Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, the first woman ordained to the
ministry, will be present; also Rev. Anna Shaw,
the only ordained Methodist women. Pendita
Ramabai will speak for the women of India. Fin-
land, Denmark and Sweden are to send representa-
tives. France has elected Madame Bagelot of
Paris as a delegate,and England sends to the
Council Miss Helen Taylor, step daughter of
John Stuart Mill. Miss Henrietta Muller, a mem-
ber of the London school board, will come to the
Council. and also Mrs. Alice Scratcherd, a promi-
nent woman suffragist in  England, Helen
Campbell, author of the “Prisoners of Poverty,”
who, on account of her work in England, will not
be able to attend in person, will send a paper,
which will be read, as also a report by Fanny
Zampini Salazaro of Rome. This lady is editor 
of the Review of the interests of women pub- I
lished in Rome, and will write upon the work of
Italian women.
	This altogether new movement on the part of
tbe N. W. S. A. is distinctive in itself, and will
do more towards making woman suffrage popular
than any work that has yet been done, or any
convention that has been called. It is bringing
together in a General Assembly the brightest and
ablest leaders, and the most intellectual women of
the age that are before the public. It is an inspira-
tion in the advancement of the cause of woman
that will promote all the several interests of the
great subjects under consideration by both men
and women of progressive thought.
	Industrial enterprises that will give employment
to woman and to girls, by which they can gain a
livlihood in the over-crowded cities of the old
and new world, is one of the most important mat-
ters to be hoped for from the ballot in the hands
of women, or from the powerful influence of a
popular body of interested workers in this direc-
tion. That much can be done in suppressing vice
by industry there is little doubt. When pure-
minded women move earnestly and in unity upon
some of these momentous questions at issue, and
when noble, lion-hearted men are willing to join
harmoniously in these great and high en-
deavors for the bettering of the condition of
those who are powerless to lift themselves, in-
stead of buying votes for whiskey then there will
be something permanent accomplished. Mean-
time let us hope that Congress will treat no other
class of women as its members have treated
“Mormon” women after they had been given the
ballot, and voted for seventeen years, to
take it away without cause or provocation
of any kind and only this frivolous pre-
sumption, “We have the power and you can’t help
yourselves.’
	The worst excuse for not granting suffrage to
other women is that “Mormon” women voted a
“Mormon” tictket. “It was quoted as 
trong argument why none of the women in
[column 3]
the United States should be permitted to vote.”
This does seem ridiculous but nevertheless the
statement is published in the papers.


AN INTERESTING VISIT.

	On the 17th day of October, 1887, Sister M.
Isabella Horne left this city on a visiting tour to
her friends at a distance, meeting her husband in
Ogden, who joined her in the journey. The same
evening, at 7 p.m., they took the Union Pacific
train for San Francisco, and arrived there after a
pleasant journey of two days. They stopped at
the well-known Russ House, and spent a little
time in sight seeing in that famous Ocean city.
The remained only a few days, however, when
they resumed their journey down into Southern
California to visit Bro. Horne’s Sister, Mrs. Re-
becca Mallory, who resides in Hollister, in San
Benito Co., a very handsome little town. The
view from the railway in traveling from San Fran-
cisco down was very fine, they thought, and it
made the trip very enjoyable; the great profusion
of beautiful flowers, pyramids of them, even, was
to them, as it is to all on their first visit, almost
marvelous. Bro. and Sister Horne visited at
Hollister two weeks; meantime the birthday of
Mrs. Mallory occurred; they enjoyed a very pleas-
ant time with the friends,and acquaintances of the
Mallory family.
	Around and in the counties of San Benito and
Santa Clara are large farming districts; farms
from one hundred to a thousand, and from ten to
twenty thousand acres, these being the old Mexi-
can land grants. These lands are mostly still held
by the Mexicans, and they lease the farms to men
who sub-lease; and the farming population depend
so much upon rain in the fall of the year, and when
that fails there is a failure of crops, that they are
in much the same condition as the Irish peasantry.
One Spanish lady, Sister Horne was creditably in-
formed, owned an immense track of land, which
yielded recently 40,000 bushels of wheat. Two
young Spanish ladies own one of the largest of
these farms, with an elegant house and grounds,
where they visit once or twice a year, and hold
parties, etc. Sister Horne was much interested
in these matters, as she is in industries of all
kinds, agricultural or otherwise, especially those
pertaining to women.
	When leaving Hollister, Bro. and Sister Horne
could not purchase tickets on the Southern Pacific
Railroad at that place, but went on to San Jose, a
short distance away,and took the railway train. Be-
fore reaching Los Angelos on this railway route,
there is a tunnel a mile and a half long through
which the train passes, and as Bro. and Sister
Horne came westward ahead of railroads, this
was a novelty to them. Further on, towards Mari-
copa, in Arizona, the country is very desolate in-
deed. They reached Maricopa station at two
o’clock in the morning, stayed there until daylight,
then took the train for Tempe, where they were
met by their eldest son, Henry, whom they had not
seen for several years. From there they drove to
his farm, a distance of nine miles, arriving at Mesa
his place of residence, on the evening of the 19th
of November. Bro. Horne laughingly remarked
to his daughter-in-law, that Sister Horne ought to
have sent word ahead that the next day would be
her birthday and had the turkeys ready. The
daughter replied that weuld be easily done, and
accordingly arrangements were made, and on the
following day they spent a very agreeable time in
visiting with friends of former days, and many
hearty greetings were interchanged, and pleasant
renewals of old friendships, as well as feasting
upon turkeys and other luxuries.
	Sister Horne met with the Relief Society in
Mesa on Thursday, Dec. first, in a special meeting.
Sister Hakes, the local President, presided. It
was a very full meeting, and an excellent spirit
prevailed. Most of the time was occupied by Sis-


ter Horne in giving instruction to the sisters, in
regard to the duties pertaining to the Relief So-
ciety in all its various departments of work. Sister
Horne was the first of the leading sisters from the
centre Stake of Zion who had visited them, and of 
course they were all anxious to see and hear her.
She also met with the R. S. in their teacher’s
meeting on the 5th of December, and gave them
much good counsel. Sisters Hakes and McDonald
also addressed the meeting in an interesting man-
ner, and all seemed to enjoy the visit of Sister
Horne and to regret her short stay among them.
On Thursday, the 8th of December, Sister Horne
went over to Jonesville, now called Lehi, situated
four miles from Mesa, to attend a meeting called
specially for her to speak to the sisters there.
Sister Lizzie McDonald presided. There were a
goodly number of sisters present, and an excellent
time enjoyed.
	Thursday, the 15th, went with some of the sis
ters from Mesa to meet with the Relief Society at
Alma, two miles distant, and there, as every where
she went, they had an excellent meeting, good at-
tendance and a good spirit.
	While away, and journeying here and there,
Sister Horne sought every opportunity to do good
among the sisters, and in these remote districts
they are greatly in need of information as well as
strength and encouragement. At some of the
meetings Sister Horne attended, two members of
the Presidency of the Stake-Brothers McDonald
and Robson—were present, and expressed them-
selves as much pleased with her visit and instruc-
tions.  
	On Monday, Jan. 2nd, 1888, there was a New
Year’s party at the residence of Elder Henry
Horne, in honor of the visit of the father and
mother, Bro. and Sister Horne of this city, and
the Presidency of the Stake and many others were
invited, and they enjoyed a most delightful evening
in conversation and such entertainment as was
most suited to such a happy occasion.
	On Tuesday afternoon, Jan. 3rd, Bro. and Sister
Horne left Mesa and went over to St. David’s, in
Cochise Co., where they visited two of their grand-
children, who are married and settled at that place.
On Sunday evening following, at 7 o’clock, Sister
Horne met with a special meeting of the Relief
Society, called on her account, the local President,
Sister Maria McRae, presiding. It was a very
large gathering of both brethren and sisters.
	Bro. and Sister Horneunexpectediy met with
many old friends at Mesa City and St. David’s.
From the latter place they drove over to Benson,
where they were to take the train, but being be-
hind time stayed at the Hotel all night, where
Sister Horne held quite an interesting conversa-
tion with some ladies. She told her husband she
didn’t mind waiting for the train, as she had the
chance of talking with these ladies upon our re-
ligion. We will give the interview in Sister
Horne’s own words, as she related it after her re-
turn home.
	“The ladies asked me which way I was travel
ing? I told them we were on our way to Salt Lake
City. One of them inquired if we were of the
Mormon faith? I answered in the affirmative.
That led to some questions, which gave me an op-
portunity of preaching the Gospel to them and
bearing my testimony to the truth. I explained
the first principles of our faith, which are, faith
in God and in His Son Jesus Christ, then repent-
ance for sin, next baptism by immersion for the
remission of sins, then the laying on of hands by
one having authority, for the gift of the
Holy Ghost; quoting Scripture to prove that
we taught the same doctrine that our Savior
and the Apostles taught in their day. I ex-
plained to them the atonement of Christ for
original sin, which took away from us Adam’s
transgression; but that we were account-
able and would have to answer for our own sins
and our works, whether.they were good or evil;

[Column 2]
the Scriptures say every one will be judged and
rewarded or condemned according to the deeds
done in the body. I explained to them the order
of celestial marriage, which they wished to hear
about. I told them it was a pure and holy princi-
ple of our religion, which we knew to be as true
as any other principle of our faith; but that no one
was forced or coerced into obeying; but our re-
ligious convictions caused us to accept it and to
live in the order of plural marriage. I informed
these ladies that I knew families in Salt Lake City,
not of our faith, who had more trouble in their
families, than there was in the patriarchal order of
marriage, or where there was a plurality of wives
among our people. I explained to them that all
were not good who had a name in our Church, and
referred them to our Savior, who taught His disci-
ples that the Gospel was like unto a fish-net cast
into the sea, that gathered of all kinds; but by
and bye, said I, there will be a separation. Our
doctrine, I told them, did not sanction evil-doing
in anyone. To these ladies I bore a very strong
testimony to the truth, refuting the many false re-
ports that are circulated about our people; as I
expect to be judged for my words and acts, I
spoke earnestly and fearlessly, for I knew whereof
I testified, and felt this was an opportunity to be
improved. I can only give a short sketch of our
conversation, but it proved to them my sincerity
and earnestness. They seemed much interested
in my testimony, one of them particularly asking
many questions, which I answered according to
facts and principles. She said to me that I had
enlightened her very much on the Scriptures, more
than she had ever expected to understand. Our
conversation lasted about two hours, and when I
arose to retire, they bade me good night, saying,
I wish every one was as much interested in the
religion they profess as you are. I replied that I
loved my religion, as it was so broad and compre-
hensive, and that we were willing to suffer persecu
tion for the Gospel’s sake, knowing that we shall
be blest in time and in eternity, and receive eter-
nal life if we are faithful in the kingdom of God.
	“The following day we left Benson by train,
coming a very tedious route, changing cars five
times before we reached the D. & R. G. At La
Junta we met with Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and two little
girls, and traveled with her the remainder of the
journey home, which was very pleasant for us
both, and an agreeable surprise.
	“After we left Pueblo on the D. & R. G. train,
a gentleman passenger, who found I was going to
Salt Lake, introduced himself to me by saying he
had purchased property near the Jordan river, and
should make that place his future home. We
afterwards drifted into a conversation on religion.
He informed me that he was a Baptist by profes-
sion. I told him he would find we were not the
people we were represented to be, and that we
believed in being at peace with all mankind. I
explained to fiim the first principles of our religion,
quoting Scripture to prove to him it was the same
doctrine taught by Christ and His Apostles. I
said to him, we are accused of every kind of evil,
even the crime of murder, which are false accusa-
tions, as we know that a murderer never can be
forgiven in this world nor in the world to come.
	“He said he begged to differ with me, as he
believed all sin would be forgiven if the person
repented. I referred him to the saying of the
Savior, that a murderer hath not eternal
life abiding in him; but every man would
be judged by his works. I alluded to the mission
of our Savior while His body laid in the tomb,
which was to preach to the spirits in prison, that
were disobedient in the days o Noah, while the
ark was preparing; and that the Savior unlocked
the prison doors and set the captives free; they
had paid the debt of their disobedience, and
would be judged according to men in the flesh.. I
told him how the Apostle Paul explained the
condition of the people after the judgment; that

[Column 3]
there was one glory of the sun, another glory of
the moon, another of the star, and as one star
differeth from another in glory, so, also, is the
resurrection of the dead. All do not go to one
place, as the majority of the religious people of
to-day believe. The Savior said all manner of
sin would be forgiven except the shedding of inno-
cent blood, or denying the Holy Ghost, or .the
atonement of Christ, for that would crucify the
Man of God afresh and put him to an open
shame.
	This is but a brief synopsis of our conversa-
tion. We reached home on Saturday evening,
Jan. 14, after an absence of three months, having
journeyed over three thousand miles. We enjoyed
the visits and sight-seeing, but returned with the
same feeling as the poet who wrote,
	" ‘There is no place like home. ’ "


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿	OUR HOLIDAYS IN CANADA.

	No matter where the Saints are—in the sunny
South or snowy North—you may depend on their
being as cheerful and happy as their circumstances
will permit.  
	Such being the case with us, I feel a desire for
the loved kindred and friends at home to know—
as at this season of the year our hearts turn with 
greater fondness to "our very own"—how their
absent, but not forgotten friends in Canada spent
their holidays.
	Christmas Eve found us—all but two sweet
mamas and their very new little Canadians—
gathered at the residence of President Card.  In 
the kitchen were our fifty children, big and little;
the front room was reserved for their parents, and
the centre room was devoted to a large Christmas
Tree and our old-time friend, Santa Claus, who
was fat, jolly, and saucy as ever.  
	The tree bore fruit of a "home made" nature, as
trees ought, and from its well laden boughs was
seen some little token of remembrance for all, for 
Santa had engaged the willing and nimble fingers
of our Relief Society and Young Ladies' Associa-
tions to assist him,as his cash was low, though
his will was good,for his trip from Utah had
nearly exhausted his exchequer for this year, but 
knowing how happily surprised our children 
would be with his attentions in our new home, he
set merrily to work.  
	Hush! don't you hear a horn?  Suddenly the
doors fly open; all is silent.  A short prayer of 
praise and thankfulness, and the children march
in, gazing on the brilliant tree, and their much
talked of, but seldom seen, "Santa Claus."  Little
Joseph, with his arms around his brother,s neck,
says, "I almost scart," but his fears vanish when
he receives his little home made wagon, and soon 
they are all supplied—balls, dolls, work-bags
tidies, etc., etc., are distributed, with sweetmeats
in little tastie lace stockings, mittens and socks, 
till such a munching, laughing, joking crowd as
our darlings present is enough to make the hearts
of the parents glad, and old Santa sweat, which
he did long before the tree was divested of its
fruit.  But at last the pleasant task is ended, the 
tree put to one side, the room cleared, and our 
young folks dance; the little ones play games and 
frolic in the kitchen, while their elders repair to 
the sitting room, and pass a delightful evening, 
singing, reciting, chatting, and talking over the 
goodness of God to us while strangers in a strange
land.  No round dancing amongst the young, no 
rudeness amongst the children, no disunion
amongst the parents, and thus ends the first never-
to-be-forgotten Christmas Eve in Canada, which
all declare to have been most enjoyable.  
	Sunday finds us gathered in Sunday School and
meeting, after which families meet in their own 
snug homes and partake of the bounties of the


earth, such as prarie chickens, plum pudding, etc.,
etc. In our nest are gathered the brethren who
have no families here; they help us demolish the
fine turkey sent us from MacLeod by Capt. Allen,
the Custom House Inspector.
	New Year's day was given to the service of the
Lord, and some of us invited in a few friends after
meeting, and enjoyed ourselves in quiet chat till
evening meeting.
	On the 7th our Young Men’s and Young Ladies’
Associations gave an excellent entertainment,
Bro. G. L. Farrell having charge of the music.
Sister Zina of the recitations, dialogues, etc., and
Bro. G. L. Robinson general manager. A num-
ber of our friendly neighbors were invited, and
one and all were enthusiastic in their praise of
our humble efforts to entertain them.
	I will conclude by telling you of our happy dis-
appointment over our winter, which has been very
mild, so far, only a few cold days at a time, and
snow only five or six inches deep. The health of
our colony is excellent, and all rejoice in freedom
and peace, and the everlasting Gospel.
									RENO.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿COMMENDATION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	May God bless Aunt Ruth for her able article
 in the EXPONENT of January 15th, 1888.  I hope
she may live long to advance such indispensible
and correct truths as she there disseminates.
	How can people of thought, that can gain in-
formation of Utah and its doings, denounce the
women thereof as ignorant and down-trodden? I
wish they would read Aunt Ruth's appeal, for
therein is food for reflection for both old and
young; its sentiments are high-souled and convinc-
ing, particularly to unbiased minds; there are 
principles referred to which would do all good to
profit by.  Nothing short of inspiration, coupled
with a knowledge of the true Gospel and its work-
ings, could have aided her in so ably defining and
treating upon such magnanimous and important
subjects.
	I am truly thankful I can abundantly testify to
and endorse her remarks, being privileged to
drink at the same pure fountain, which our Father
offers to all liberally who are athirst.  Though I 
am not so richly endowed as Ruth, yet we have
the blessed assurance that those who seek shall 
find.  There is a field of information in her state-
ments, very clearly and logically shown; all im-
partial readers can understand and coincide
with the correctness of her views. I hope may
will take a lesson by the sound principles so 
tersely yet beautifully explained.  I would that
every line was riveted upon my memory, as I am
desirous of gaining from such wise and compre-
hensive teachings.  May we search our hearts
and purge there from all obnoxious and corrupting
weeds. 
	I also very much appreciated the editorial in the 
same issue upon the Woman Suffrage movement
I feel to stand beside such noble women and sus-
tain them by my faith and untiring efforts in de-
fense of right and justice.  Their hearts are loyal
to womankind, and may they meet with encourage
ment and be successful. 
	I pray that my sisters may not slacken their
hands, but gain strength and fortitude to accom-
plish all that is required of them in these truly the
latter days, that the Holy Spirit may be granted us
to discern between truth and error.
	May God speed the day when our brethren may 
enjoy immunity from their enemies, when 
righteousness shall rule, and those who oppose
the laws of Cod be brought to a full sense of their
own condition. 
				Yours truly,
								M. A. TILL.
	Feb. 13, 1888.


﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
		BEAR LAKE SRAKE.
	The Bear Lake Stake Relief Society held a
conference at Paris, Jan. 14th and 15th, 1888.
Meeting commenced at 10 a.m., Julia P. Lind-
say presiding. Singing. Prayer by Elder J.
E. Hart. Singing. Minutes of the last con-
ference read and accepted. Present on the
stand, Prest. Julia P. Lindsay and Counselors
E. Collings and L. M. Hart; the Stake Presi-
dency of Y. L. and P. A. were also present,
Presidents Budge, Hart and many other
brethren.	
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay made some opening
remarks.
	The presidents of the different wards gave
verbal reports, showing that each Society was
in a good condition, and that all were trying to
do the will of the Lord.
	Coun. E. Collings made some excellent re-
marks; urged the sisters to look after the poor.
	Bro. Athey made a few appropriate remarks.
	Coun. L. M. Hart spoke on the great influ-
ence the mothers and sisters have in their
homes; said,  "As we have commenced another
year, let us renew our energies and improve
ourselves.”
	Conference adjourned until Sunday at 2 p.m.
Saturday afternoon was occupied by the Prim-
aries, Sunday morning by the Y. L. M. I. A.
Singing, “Lord dismiss us,” etc. Benediction 
by Bishop West.	
	Afternoon session: Conference, opened with 
singing and prayer. The statistical and finan-
cial reports were read.	
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay said, “When, we ad- 
dress a congregation we should be influenced 
by the Spirit of the Lord, so that we may be
able to advance correct principles.” Urged the
sisters to look after the sick and poor in our
midst. Said the secretaries should understand
their duty, that correct accounts may be kept.
Spoke very impressively on educating the
young people, as they will have to hold respon-
sible positions. Spoke on the amiable qualities
of our deceased Secretary, Sister E. Pugmire,
and recommended her daughter; Sister L. Rich,
as being capable of holding this position. She
was then chosen and set apart as Stake Secre-
tary.
	Coun. E. Collings and L. M. Hart gave some
good instructions.	
	Prest. Budge spoke very encouragingly to
the sisters; approved of their labors very much;
thought we should try to become a more self-
sustaining people.				
	Conference adjourned for six months. Sing-
ing. Benediction by J. Hart.
			LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec. of Stake.

			SAMPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference held Dec. 10th,
1887, in the meeting house at Mt. Pleasant.
Opened with singing. Prayer by Bro. Reynolds.
Continued with singing.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde opened the meeting and
addressed the congregation assembled. Felt
very much impressed about the departure of
our beloved sister and co-worker, E. R. Snow
Smith; said we have no reason to mourn her
loss, her works and her intelligence will follow
her, and will also live after her here. Spoke
about the prophecies being fulfilled; Joseph
Smith had spoken of these days. Said the first
duty of the Relief Society was to look after
the sick and poor, as we had been taught by
our departed “Sister Eliza;” she always had a
love for the sisters of Sanpete, and placed them
in excellence and diligence next to the sisters
of Box Elder Stake. “We are often called to
mourn about the evils that happen among us.
Referred to a circumstance that happened in
our county. Urged the parents to look well
after their children, and above all things, as

[Column Two]

actions speak louder than words, show to them
a good example.
	Her Counselor, Sarah Peterson, from Eph-
raim, felt glad and thankful that she was
united in the same faith, and had come here
with the same feeling, to be instructed. "We
live in a day when we must draw nearer to our
God. I thought, when Sister Hyde spoke
about the teaching of our children, that we
must teach them to be honest and true; often
little school-children will bring articles home
that they claim to have found, but parents
should be particular to have them return such
things; by so doing we can form in them a
habit of truthfulness; but we must ourselves
show a good example to our children.” Gave
a good report from the Ephraim Wards; said
the sick and the poor were well looked after.
	Sister M. P. Madsen felt much edified in the
instructions given; we should treasure it up
aud put it into every day practice. Spoke
about the privilege of going to the Temple, and
made other good remarks.
	Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt lake City, had
come from Moroni the same morning. Said
she felt greatly disappointed, as she had hoped
to have Sister Zina Young and Sister Minerva
Snow with her, but circumstances were such
that she had to come without them. Sister
Young and Sister Snow sent their love to the
sisters of Sanpete. Said she met with the
sisters of Moroni the day before, and also with
the Primary; noticed a great improvement in
the children in their exercises. Sister Wells
told us as much as she could of Sister Eliza’s
sickness and death. Said how beautiful she
was in her coffin; looked more like a bride than
one dead; referred to the interesting remarks
made at her funeral; thought she had never at-
tended a funeral where there was so much good 
said of a person, but not too much good could
he said of Sister Eliza. Spoke of the Hospital;
thought it should be sustained, as if was an
institution for the benefit of the afflicted.
	Sister Pritchet, of Fairview, reported her
ward; said the sisters were willing to respond to
every call.	
	Sister Acord, of Spring City, represented
her ward; said a portion of the sisters are al-
ways on hand, but another portion were sloth-
ful and neglectful. “We must try to the best
of our ability to live nearer unto the Lord,
that we may earn the crown that is in store for
the faithful.”
	Bishop Irons, of Moroni, found a great help
in the Relief Society. Said, "Mothers, set a
good example before your children, and the
Lord will take note of it. The sisters are doing
well;" he never had called upon the Society but
they had responded to the call.
	Prest. Peterson said he liked to meet with the
sisters. “We live in an important time; the
angel Moroni spoke about these days; the
prophecies are going to be fulfilled.” He re-
ferred to the 33rd chapter of Isaiah speaking
about this time. Was thankful that we could
worship a God with body, parts and passions, a
God which the Christian world know not of
and do not believe in.
	Prest Hyde made closing remarks, and con-
ference adjourned until the second Saturday in
March. Singing, “O, my Father" etc. Bene-
diction by Bishop Lund.
			Y. L. M. I. A.
	(Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake, held at Mt.
Pleasant, Dec. 10, 1887, Miss Helen Armstrong
presiding.)
	(Miss Olive Lowrey) represented the Associa-
tion of Manti as being in a good condition; said
some were very diligent, and were doing their
utmost to forward the work, while others were
negligent. “Youth is the time for study, and
we will be held responsible by the great Judge
for the way the time allotted to us is spent, and


also for the cultivation of our talents. We
should all seek for a testimony, for we all have
an equal privilege to know of the truth of this
work.”
	The Y. L. of Mt. Pleasant South Ward was
represented by the President, Ella Wheelock,
who said they were doing very well; the meet-
ings were well attended, and each one seemed
willing to help the other along.
	Miss Lowrey was requested by Prest. Peter-
sen to relate some of her experience, which she
did, as follows: "During the past year I was
very ill, and beside being sick physically, I also
felt much depressed in spirits. One night as
I was lying upon my bed a beautiful light ap-
peared to me; I thought it might be a reflection,
but looking around the room I soon ascertained
that it was not. It was so clear and bright 
that it is beyond comparison to anything on
earth, and it brought with it such a divine in-
fluence and made me feel so happy, that I
thought I could never more feel sad; but after 
it left me the sad hours would come again.
While I felt pretty well I did not have this
visitation, but when I had another attack it
would again return and cheer me. One night
my mother was sleeping with me, and that
night the Elders had administered to me, and
as a general thing after their administration I 
could sleep, but not so on this particular even-
ing. My mother asked me why I was not
sleeping? I told her I could see that beautiful
light again, and asked her if she could not see
it; she said she could, and while we were talk-
ing about it, it moved into another corner of 
the room. My father was called in, and he
also saw the light. Christmas night my sister
was in my room, and as she was going to bed
at about eleven o’clock, she exclaimed, “Oh,
what a beautiful light above you!” I looked 
up and saw it, and I resolved to ask it as I
would a person if I should ever have my health
restored to me. I did so, and it disappeared.
I still felt uncertain, and I asked it to return
in all its brightness if I should ever be like my
former self again. It reappeared, and came
down so close that it almost rested upon me,
and a feeling like an electric shock passed
through my body. I am here to-day, and I
bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters,
that I know there is a God who hears and an-
swers our prayers, and whose power was mani-
fested to me in this wonderful manner."
	Clara Kofford, of Mt. Pleasant North Ward,
said the young ladies there were much interested;
hoped they would keep on improving.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde bore her testimony to the
truth of what Miss Lowrey had said. “The
great privileges we enjoy are not appreciated
by all. Why are instances like the one just
related more rare than they were when the
Church was in its infancy? Is it because we
have less faith? The adversary has great power
on this earth, and we will all, no doubt, be
thrown into society where we must possess a
portion of the Holy Spirit if we resist the evil
influences that are brought to bear against us.”
Invoked the blessings of God upon us. She
then spoke with the gift of tongues, which was
interpreted by Sister Wells.)	*	*	*
	Miss Willardsen hoped the young ladies
would be alive to their duties, and always strive
to improve.
	Coun. Sarah Petersen said we should remem-
ber the Creator in the days of our youth.
Spoke of the Relief Society of Ephraim as in
a good condition, and exhorted the young
ladies to faithfulness and diligence.
	Prest. M. F. C. Morrison made a few interest-
ing remarks; said mothers should instil into the 
minds of their children the principles of truth.
	Sister E. B. Wells said, “We have many 
manifestations of the goodness of Providence.
We are blessed above all our expectations.
Sometimes we complain of poverty, but we do
not know what poverty is compared with what

[Column Two]

the Saints passed through during the persecu-
tions and mobbings of other days.” Spoke of
seeing some of the convicts at the penitentiary
in their prison garb. Gave an interesting ac-
count of her travels in the East, and her inter-
view with the Poet Whittier. “It takes a great 
deal of humility to embrace the Gospel” Re-
lated an incident to illustrate the same.
	Prest. Canute Petersen was very thankful
for the testimonies borne; hoped they would be
of encouragement to others, and that all would
be united and go on improving.
	Conference was adjourned to meet at Spring
City the second Saturday in March, 1888.
Closed with singing the Doxology, and a bene-
diction.
		A. LOUISE HASLER, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Spring City held
a fair Jan. 31st, 1888, under the management
of their most energetic President, Mrs. Emma
Robinson. There was a fine display of fancy
work, pastry and tools, such as plows, yokes,
potatoe-mashers, butter-ladles, etc., made by
both boys and girls. Among other things was
a nice piece of carpet, made by the children, to
be given to the Manti Temple.
	After the things were viewed by the company,
they were called to order, and a programme of
songs, recitations, speeches and instrumental
music was carried out.
	The singing of the children' under the train-
 ing of Bro. John Schofield was excellent. The
day’s entertainment concluded with dancing
and picnic.
						M. A. WHITE.


MRS. AMMON IN CLEVELAND JAIL.

	The women of Cleveland are just now indig-
nant over the treatment of Mrs. Josephine
Ammon.
	More than a year ago there came to this
woman’s beautiful home on Euclid Avenue, an
old friend and neighbor, who claimed protec-
tion. This friend, Mrs. Bland, and her
daughter, had property, and it was claimed
that the daughter was not mentally strong and
needed a guardian. Hence a certain lawyer
was appointed, against the wishes of the
daughter, and the mother dying at Mrs. Am-
mon’s house, extracted a promise  from her
hostess to protect the girl from her legal pro-
tector.”
	After the funeral, when the guardian called
for his ward, she could not be found. Mrs.
Ammon was summoned before the court to tell
the whereabouts of the girl. This she would
not tell; hence she is in jail for contempt of
court. Our ladies call upon her, and send her
flowers and fruit; her meals are sent to her from
the best hotels; a leading furniture house has
sent her a nice chamber set, and she is very
comfortable and cheerful. Her bright, promis-
ing boys call upon her and say, “Mother is
right.” I know not how long she will occupy
the same prison with forty criminal voters—
the only woman there—but if they imagine she
will yet tell the hiding place of that poor girl
they are greatly mistaken.
	Another thing; the trustees of Adelbert Col-
lege in this city have just decided that girls
shall not be educated there. The boys do not
stand a fair chance, as the girls carry off all
the honors. Hence the girls must go. We
have sixteen hundred saloons in Cleveland, and
we take a revenue from them.
					SARAH M. PERKINS.


﻿Louise Alcott’s books have been translated
into Danish.


LINES.

RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO SISTER ELLEN P.
	MATHERY ON HER LEAVING THE ST.
		GEORGE TEMPLE, JULY 17, 1887.

	A few short years have passed away.
		Since first thou cam’st to earth;
	Away down in the sunny south
		The land that gave thee birth.
	Those golden streets, and mansions fair, 
		Thou bad'st them all farewell,
	To tabernacle in the flesh,
		And with earth's mortals dwell.

	Thou did’st forget those rapturous scenes,
		Scenes of Celestial love;
	Thy father and thy mother, too,
		In regal courts above,
	Transporting joys of heavenly bliss.
		Lit with eternal flame
	Yea, all of these thou didst forget,
		And e’en thy angel name.
 
	God in His kindness gave to thee 
		An angel pure and bright,
	To guide thy feet while here on earth
		In paths of truth and right.
	That thy young heart impressed might be 
		With love of sacred truth,
	And yield obedience thereunto		
		While in the bloom of youth.

	And seemingly unknown to thee,
		Thy path led to the west,
	To mingle with God’s people there
		In Zion’s place of rest.
	And in His sacred temple courts
		He caused thy feet to tread,
	To minister in holy things
		For the living and the dead.

	The peace of God lit up thy soul,
		A heavenly joy serene;
	When at His shrine thou wast ordained 
		A priestess and a queen,
	And millions of thy sex have not
		Been blessed of God as thou,
	He honored thee ’fore thou wast born
		He honors thee e’en now.

	O, may thy works in temple courts
		Accepted be as thine,
	And shed a halo o’er thy life
		And after death still shine.
	And should we ever meet again 
		Let memories of the past
	Spring up like everlasting flowers, 
		Sweet-scented to the last.  
							C. L. WALKER.


﻿A FEW GOOD RULES.

	Attend to them yourself; a go-between be-
twixt mother and child is like a middle-man in
business, who gets the largest share of the 
profits.
	Reflect that a pert child is an abomination;
train your children to be respectful and to
hold their tongues in the presence of their su-
periors.
	Remember that, although they are all your
children, each one has an individual character,
and that tastes and qualities vary indefinitely.
	Respect their little secrets; if they have con-
cealments, worrying them will never make 
them tell, and patience will probably do their
work.
	Remember that without physical health men-
tal attainment is worthless; let them lead free,
happy lives, which will strengthen both mind
and body.
	Make your boys and girls study physiology;
when they are ill try and make them under-
stand why, or how the complaint arose, and the
remedy as far as you know it.
	Teach boys and girls the actual facts of life
as soon as they are old enough to understand
them, and give them a sense of responsibility 
without saddening them.


﻿Impress upon them from early infancy that
actions have results, and that they cannot
escape consequences even by being sorry when
they have acted wrongly.
	Find out what their special tastes are, and
develop them instead of spending time, money,
and patience in forcing them into studies that
are repugnant to them.
	As your daughters grow up, teach them at
least the true merits of housekeeping and
cookery; they will thank you for it in later
life a great deal more than for accomplish-
ments.	
	Maintain a respectful tone to their father
before them; if he is not all you wish, still
make them respect, him; he is always their
father, and disrespect to him is a reflection up-
on yourself.
	Try and sympathize with girlish flights of
fancy even if they seem absurd to you; by so
doing you will retain your influence over your
daughters, and not teach them to seek sym-
pathy elsewhere.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Drunkards would not be elected to the U.
S. Senate, if women were voters.

	In Wyoming,where women have voted since
1869, it is expressly provided by law that there
shall be no discrimination on account of sex in
the pay for any kind of work.

	All find in Scripture a helper toward the
discovery of truth and the attainment of happi-
ness; a guide to the understanding, a corrector
and supporter of the imagination, a comforter
of the heart, a teacher of wisdon, a rule of
faith, a source of joy.—H. Hunter.

	Mrs. Ada M. Bittenbender, the lady lawyer
of Nebraska, who is now at Washington look-
ing after the interests of the W. C. T. U , was
the author of the excellent Nebraska law
which makes mothers joint guardians of their
children with the father.  In all the States of
the Union except four—Kansas, lowa, New
Jersey and Nebraska—the father is the sole
legal owner of the children, the mother hav-
ing no legal rights in them, unless the marriage
has been broken up by death or divorce. Mrs.
Bittenbender also drew the bill which passed
the last Nebraska Legislature,providing for an
Industrial Home for Fallen Women.—Ex.

	It seems not to be very extensively known
that there is, in Argonia, Kansas, a woman
mayor.  She was elected last Spring, and is
filling the office, it is said, satisfactorily and
conscientiously.  It is said she is pointed out to
strangers as one of the curiosities of the town.
Her name is Susanna Medora Salter; she is a
married woman, twenty-seven years old, with
four children; is a blonde of medium height,
slender in figure and dresses with good taste.
Her father, Oliver Kinsey, was the first mayor
of Argonia.  Kansas was the first State that
granted municipal suffrage to women.  The elec-
tion of Mrs. Salter began in a joke,but it is now
an established fact.—Ex.

	In 1886 there were in the prisons of the
United States 53,00 men and 5,000 women.
The fact is that there are not many bad women.
Men and women do not make two classes, but
one class.  If woman does not have logic, she
has something that makes up for that deficiency;
she has intuition, and one is as likely to come
out right as the other.  There is not a ques-
tion before the people that has not a moral
basis.  Only one-half the people—the male
half—is working at these problems.  Call in
the other half—the female half—and you have
the whole of humanity.  If men have done


grandly, what will they do with women to help
them?—Mary A. Livermore.


NOTICES.

	The conference of the Relief Society, of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, the 15 of March com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. as usual, and it
is desirable that there be a full attendance
from the respective wards and districts, and
especially that each branch Relief Society in
the county should be represented.  As it is
the semi-annual Conference written reports are
expected at an early date to enable the Secre-
tary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, to prepare a
full report in time for the Conference.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake will hold
Conference the following day, March 16, at
the same place and will commence at the same
hours, 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.  Written reports from
each association should be sent in good time to
the Secretary, Miss Lizzie Smith.  It is hoped
the young ladies will make a good showing
of their work during the past six months.
	The Primary Associations of this Stake will
meet on Saturday, the 17th, probably, in the
Assembly Hall.

	The Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annual
Stake reports, carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of
March, that a complete and satisfactory report
may be made to the general conference in
April.
	Direct the reports to Miss Mary E. Cook,
323 E., Third South Street, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our much esteemed sister, Mrs. Sarah Ellis, departed
this life on the 19th ult.  She was the first president of the
Primary Association organized in this place (Spring City), 
and was very faithful to her charge.  The children still 
reverence her memory.  She was honorably released by 
Sister Eliza on account of her age and infirmities.  Sister
Ellis was a faithful member of the Relief Society from the 
first; hospitable and generous, ever ready to assist in doing 
good, and zealous in bearing testimony to the truth.  
									M. A. H.
	Spring City.

	DIED, at Tooele City, Feb. 12, 1888 after a long and
lingering illness and much suffering, Sister Emily Warbur-
ton she was born Oct. 17 1830, in Lincolnshire, England.  
She leaves a husband and nine children and many friends
to mourn her loss.  Sister Warburton was a loving mother
and faithful wife, and a good faithful Latter-day Saint.  
She was the secretary for the Relief Society from the first 
of its organization in Tooele until her death;she was also the 
First Counselor to the President of the stake; she was al-
ways patient, cheerful and charitable and a wise counselor; 
and our society has lost one of the most faithful of its 
members; the deepest sorrow and sympathy is felt for the
bereaved family, and fervently we pray the blessings of 
God to them that they may acknowledge His hand in all
things and that they may follow in her footsteps and the 
good example that she has set before them.  
						ANN TATE, Cor. Sec. R. S. 

		"Dearest sister you have left us,"
			For the bright and happier sphere,
		Although your spirit has departed, 
			Your memory we'll cherish here.

		You have gained the victory,
			And are now at rest from pain, 
		We are in this world of sorrow,
			Our loss is your eternal gain.  
											A. T.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with feelings of great sorrow that we record the
death of Sister Elizabeth Parkin, who died April 4th, 1887.


at her home in South Bountiful. Sister Parkin was born
March 18, 1821, at Loscoe, Derbyshire, England. Was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints Dec. 15, 1850, and left her native land May 26,1862,
with her husband and family—five sons and one daughter
—to gather with the Saints of God to the valleys of the
mountains. She crossed the sea in the ship Syneshore, and
the plains in Captain Ricks' company, arriving in Salt Lake
City Oct. 4th, 1883, with her husband and family all in
good health. Sister Parkin is the only one of her father's
house that embraced the Gospel, nevertheless she has done
a good work for her progenitors. She was a teacher in the
Relief Society of this ward, and always bore her testimony
to the truth of the Latter-day work. She died as she had
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His wis-
dom to call from our midst our much loved and respected
sister, Elizabeth Parkin;
	Whereas, We are called to mourn the loss of a dear
friend and co-laborer in the Relief Society, one who has
always been a faithful member, willing to respond to every
requirement made upon her;
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Relief Society of
South Bountiful, realize the loss of so faithful a member.
	Resolved, That we extend our symyathy to the bereaved
family and friends.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be furnished
the family and the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and placed on
the Relief Society record.
						PHEBE ATKINSON, President,
						MARY ANN PAGE, Secretary.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

