VOL. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1887.	 No. 14.


[column 1]
TO THE BELOVED MEMORY OF

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

Would that my muse might fitting numbers wake,
Mem’ry sweet echoes for a loved one’s sake;
But, oh! too feeble  and too sad my voice,
Her's spoke but to make music and rejoice—
Supreme o'er sorrow and life's varied wrongs,
Her soul learned lessons that she wrought in songs,
And taught her sisters how, through griefs and pains,
The Father made all their trials end in gains.	
Like one born to the purple and its state,
Pomp, did not thrill, nor praise her soul elate, 
But, calm and watchful, as with sovereign care,
In other’s sorrows her spirit' came to share.
Beside a Prophet, yes, beside a king,
She well might stand and bards her praises sing. 
Yet if her soul a foretaste ever knew
Of future grandeur, glorious to view,
Her lips ne'er spoke the secret in their pride
For love to welcome, or the base deride; 
Nay, all her treasury of hope and faith she kept
Within her woman’s heart, where sorrows gently slept,
Covered them with rev’rent care, and then went forth to
	seek
Less blessed than she with fortitude—the sorrowful and
	weak.
Those have the sweetest voices who’ve most of sorrow
	known,
So her’s bore balm to wounded hearts e'en by its simplest
	tone,		
And thousands live to bless her voice, yet none have ever
	heard
E’en in reproof, a tone unmeet for love’s and sorrow’s
	word.
Go, search the lines by mightier pens, her soul soared high
	as theirs,	
Yet her humility was sweet as childrens' at their prayers.
And well might pride and luxury their arrant faces hide,
She wore the fabrics that she wrought, their rich array
	beside,
Nor costly gifts, nor radiant gems her queenly form might
	deck,
Their passing worth and soulless light her spirit’s joy would
	check;
She waited for those richer gems, celestial beings win,
Who've overcome the tests of earth and tasted not of sin,
I do not miss her loving smile, it lingers in me yet,
And mem’ry of her tender voice this heart can ne’er forget,
So many, many were the years its music breathed to me—
I close my eyes and hear again, as last beside her knee
She gave me kiss and blessing, her parting farewell gift;
A holy spell was in the room, and seemed almost to lift
The veil that wraps this earthly sense from dull and real
	things,
And almost severs link by link the ties by which it clings.
It did not seem like death, although the scene was new and
	strange,
A sacred calm was over all, sweet as the blessed change.
The emblems that she would have praised, bloomed like a
	smile through tears,	 
And loving words from noble hearts, that loved her all her
	years.
And she like one who lay asleep conscious of guardian
	care—
Not as though death, but bliss, had loosed the spirit hover-
	ing there.

Missed?  Yes, we miss her as though none had thought the
	time could come
Those queenly eyes could lose their light, that voice could
	e’er be dumb,
I think we all with reverent faith believed she would be
	here
When Zion’s flag should proudly fly o’er all our vales so
	dear,

[column 2]
When hymns of glad and glorious praise proclaim us blest
	and free,
In peace and union saved at last from error’s tyranny.
Sweet be her sleep and sweet her joy, when waking she
	shall see
The lessons sown in earthly paths bloom in eternity.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Dec. 21, 1887.


[Column 1]
A CHRISTMAS FLOWER.

	It was Christmas Eve, and the city was all
astir.  The busy throng, with arms heavily
laden, were passing to and fro; gay greetings
were heard from every side, mingled, occasion-
ally, with the piteous cry of the beggar, or the
entreaty of the street wender.  From the win-
dows of shops and dwellings the lights shone
until a late hour.  The bright laugh, the merry
voice, the tramp of feet, the jingling bells, the
rolling wheels, the sounds of music, the occa-
sional whistle from the boats flying along the
river, all mingled in a dreamy, muffled sound,
like the approach of a huge army towards the
city.  It was the heralding of Santa Claus
with his hosts of assistants, about to beseige
the homes all over the Christian world, and for
one day, at least, overturn and upset all the
domestic arrangements.
	This eventful night was to be celebrated, at
least at one fashionable house, by a grand ball,
the day being the anniversary, as well as
Christmas, of the birth of the fair daughter of
this home.  And fair she was; almost without
an equal.  Perfect in form and feature, the
embodiment of grace and womanliness, and
with all, a disposition and nature so spirituelle,
humble and irresistible, that she alike charmed
and delighted all who met her; to see her once
but led to the desire to know her, and to know
was to love, almost adore her.
	She stood, to-night, in front of a table strewn
with flowers, delicately and tastily arranged, in
a quandary which to wear, all were so beautiful.
	“I am sure,” said her fond mother, “as your
dress is so simple and plain, that this bouquet
of various colored roses (lifting the flowers sent
by the suitor she most favored) would become
you most.”
	“I think these gerainums lovelier than any-
thing on white; do wear them, Alice,” said her
sister.
	“It would be better not to offend anyone to-
night and as I cannot wear them all, I prefer
only this white camelia, which my little invalid
friend sent me this morning; surely no one
could take offense at that; and let all these
flowers be arranged on the table near my stand-
ing place for to-night, and to-morrow they shall
be sent to brighten the dreary rooms of the
poor.”
	She did not yield, notwithstanding her
mother’s entreaties, but in her pretty white
costume, with the one camelia for ornament,
all the lovelier for her plainness, entered the
brilliantly decorated ball room.  In the sweetest
manner and gentlest way she received the many
friends who had assembled to greet her, and,
favoring no one especially, but all heartily,
passed pleasantly away the hours.  She loved
society dearly, still could not help but grieve
to see so much display of wealth for the mere
pleasure of an hour.  She announced to her
lady friends her intention of sending her flow-
ers to the sick and poor for Christmas cheering,
and they all were charmed with the idea, and
stripped their robes of the beautiful, costly

[Column 2]
ornaments and laid them on the different tables.
Alice felt very joyful with the thought that
her party had really reverted into a charity
ball, and might be the means of gladdening a
few lonely hearts.  The tables were heaped
with garlands and bouquets of most exquisite
flowers, and Alice was told to distribute them
as she chose.
	In every heart, however proud, is a kindly
chord, which yields to a delicate touch at
Christmas time, if only a player can be found
who understands the instrument, and Alice un-
derstood exactly the human heart; she had
made it her study, and could cause it to yield
tears and laughter, joy and sympathy with the
easiest, lightest words.  She had a faculty for
rendering people happy, and felt to-night that
she had caused her wealthy friends as great
joy by taking from them, as on the morrow she
would cause her poorer ones by giving to
them.
	The morning came, bright and cold.  Alice
started early on her rounds from house to house,
bestowing her gifts, her sweet smiles and
pleasant words on her needy friends.  What a
sweet, gracious Santa Claus she was!  No won-
der the people loved her.  At last she had
finished, all but one place, the home of her poor
little boy who had sent the camelia.  As she
reached the door she wondered how he came
by such a beautiful flower, for surely he had
none such among his pretty collection of window
plants.
	She found her little friend (for such she al-
ways called him), bolstered up in a chair, and
looking brighter and better than he ever had
before since she had known him.  Always for
many years he had been compelled to lie on his
bed, or in the large rolling chair, in which,
sometimes on a fair day, his widowed mother
would take him out.  It was on one of these
occasions that Alice first saw them, and was so
moved to pity by the languid appeal of his
large brown eyes, and the tired look of his
mother, that she ventured to address them, and
found out their condition; their name was
Warner, and they lived not far away in a poor,
but tidy row of tenement houses, and had no
means of support but the earnings of the
mother, who went out sewing, and so had to
leave her boy alone the whole day long, while
she toiled for their bread.
	“And how came your boy to be so sick?”
said Alice.
	“He fell over a little stool when only two
years old, and hurt his hip; at first, when his
father was alive, we had a doctor for him, and
believed he might be cured, but his father died,
and I had no means with which to retain the
physician, and he has grown up weak and help-
less, as you see; sometimes better, sometimes
worse, and in such pain that I could almost
pray to have him die; but then my loneliness
comes over me and I feel as though he must
live, and some day, perhaps, the Lord will help
me, so that he may be healed.”
	And this was their story, which so moved
Alice that she then and there pronounced her-
self their friend, and aided them in many ways,
by obtaining work for the mother, and helping
the little invalid to learn to read and write and
cut out pretty papers, for which she found a
sale, and thus he became a help to his mother,
and felt less the weight of his dependence.
     On this Christmas morning a great change
seemed to pervade the house; the boy was so
bright and cheerful, and the mother sang as


she carefully prepared the dinner.  Alice never
remembered seeing her so before, for she was
always repining and recalling the days “when
things went better, and she didn't have to work
so hard.” They seemed more pleased than
ever to see her this morning, not so much for
what she had brought them, but for the won-
derful news they had for her.  After the con-
fused and loud greeting, from which she was
able to comprehend nothing, Alice inquired
from Henry the meaning of it all, and how he
came to be sitting so upright, and what had
really happened; had they had a fortune left
them, or what?
	“No, dear Miss Alice,” replied the boy, “not
a fortune left us, but something brought to us
which we believe to be far greater and better.”
And then he explained how a young man had
knocked at their door yesterday, and asked if
he might come in and warm himself. “We
were much surprised to see a strong, handsome
fellow, quite well dressed, asking for shelter as
though he were poor.”
	“Perhaps,” said Alice, “he was worse than
poor; maybe he is wicked and robs the poor of 
what little savings they possess.”
	“Oh, no!” said Henry. “If only you could
hear him and see what he can do; he says he is
not poor, but has a beautiful home and kind
relatives and friends in a far distant land, but
that he has been sent out in the world, like
many other of his friends, to proclaim glad
tidings, that he brings news that the Gospel of
Christ has been restored, and to entreat the
people to repent, to have faith and believe, to
turn from the world and gather to this beauti-
ful land where he lives—the land of Zion, he
calls it.”
	“He must be an impostor,” said Alice, “oh,
don’t have him here, he will ruin you both, I
am sure.”
	“You would not think like that if you could 
but see how humble and good he is, “besides ”
answered the boy, with a hot blush mounting
his lace, “do you not see that he has almost
made me well? and he tells us that he thinks I
can be healed; that he knows of many instances
where his friends have caused as great afflic-
tions as mine to be instantly cured.  And, then, 
why would he leave a pleasant home and travel
on foot in a strange land, without means, even
as the Savior and His disciples did, if he were
not good and”—but here he stopped speaking,
for, raising his eyes, he saw an offended look on
his fair listener’s face, and thought, perhaps, 
he had spoken too hastily and sharply, and it
grieved him to think he had wounded one who
was always so kind to him; but Alice never
bore resentment, and thought best to turn the
subject, for she had little doubt still in her own 
mind but that her friends had been taken in,
so to speak, and she brightly asked Henry,
“Where did you obtain that beautiful flower
you sent me yesterday?  Do you know it was
the only ornament I wore last night, and that
I have it still in my room looking as fresh as
ever."
	The boy blushed again, for he did not wish
to tell her that the very young man whom she
thought so poorly of had purchased it for him
to send, but his mother, only too eager to tell
anything in his favor, quickly replied:
	“Why, Miss Alice, our new friend, hearing
Henry raving about you, as he always is, and
almost crying because he had no birthday gift
for you, kindly offered to get him something,
and suggested a pure white flower, which he
most beautifully said, if you were the being
Henry declared you to be, would be a fitting
present, and you would, doubtless, have too
many fancy presents to please you anyhow.”
	This was almost too much for Alice, and she
rose and coolly left them, for she was hurt and 
grieved to think she had worn the flower from
a perfect stranger—doubtless some vagabond—
with such perfect ease, despite her mother’s and
sister’s entreaties.  She had not gone far before
her heart relented to the sick child, though
with the mother she had no patience, and she
turned back to say a few kind words and let
her boy see she bore him no ill feeling.  Her
surprise was very great, as she re-entered the
room, to see a tall, handsome young man sitting
holding, quite tenderly, Henry’s poor thin 
hands, and she stood for a moment as though
riveted to the spot.  Surely, thought she, this
is strange; he does not look as though he needed
anything, and that frank, kind look in his face
does not speak deceit.  She apologized for com-
ing back, and was about to leave again, when
the young stranger gently requested that she
remain a moment, and to her own wonder, for
under other circumstances such a request from
a stranger, in her friend’s house, would have
seemed a mark of insolence, she seated herself
and awaited his pleasure.  He soon told her
that her little friend had made him acquainted
with the occurrences of the morning, and he
was greatly pained that he should have been
the means of bringing discord or ill feeling
where such love existed, and she need not be
offended about the flower, as it was Henry’s
gift, and he only performed the part of errand
boy in purchasing it, as Henry was unable to
go out himself; doubtless her other flowers,
pointing to the ones she had left for Henry,
were purchased in a similar way, messengers
taking the orders to the florists.  How gently
and sweetly he spoke, and yet how firmly; no
wonder, thought Alice, that these poor people
are elated; then they speak of restoring Henry’s
health, I forgot to ask about that, perhaps he
is a physician; I will inquire:
	“How is it that my young friend has so far
recovered, are you a doctor?”
	“No,” replied the stranger, “not of medicine,
but I try to carry with me enough faith to effect
some cures, and touch the souls of a few honest
people.” He then explained his mission, as we
have heard Henry tell before, only more ex-
plicitly and described the power of healing by
anointing with oil and prayer. “But I detain
you,” said he at length, “and your Christmas
will be passed from home; my friends here have
kindly offered me a Christmas dinner, after
which I must renew my journey, for I have an
appointment to-morrow many miles from here,
and must get an early start, or shall not be 
able to reach there.”
	“And do you really travel all the time on
foot? and where will you stay to-night”
	“Wherever night overtakes me, and we walk
most of the time, as in that way we can bear a
testimony and give a warning to all we meet,
that is, all who will listen.”
	“And when will you return here again?”
	“Next week. I hope to re-visit my friends
here, and find them prepared to receive further
instructions, perhaps baptism.”
	Alice surprised herself by the way she had
lingered, but now, feeling oh, far happier than
when she left before, again bade them and her
new acquaintance goodbye.
	She did not reveal what had happened to her
parents, for she knew them to be so worldly, and
she dreaded their sneers.  Already they thought
her too philanthropic, and, as they termed it,
sanctimonious; and besides, she remembered her
own incredulity, and how offended she became
with her poor friends for believing in this
stranger, and now she herself was just as firmly
convinced of his sincerity and truth as they
had been; she scarcely dared allow herself to
think of the impression he had made and the
words he had said, but her soul was full of de-
light, and her lovely eyes bespoke the bright
thoughts that possessed her.
	That night she laid, among some other treas-
ures, that beautiful white flower, and smilingly 
repeated to herself, "A pure white flower
would be a most fitting gift for such a one.”
Alice spent most of the time the following week

[Column 3]

with her poor friends, reading the books the
stranger had left them and talking the subject
over with them.  At last the week had ended,
and all three, fully convinced of the teachings
they had read, anxiously awaited the stranger’s
return.  A day, almost another week passed,
and still he did not come, and Alice began first
to wonder, then doubt, and then, as in her
dreams, the kind, gentle face appeared before
her, and she began to fear that some evil had
befallen him.  At length he came, but how
changed; her fears were realized.  The night he
left them he had failed to procure a resting
place, and many doors had been fastened
against him; all that long, cold night he walked,
and the exposure had given him such a cold
that he had not been able to return before.
Perhaps it was just as well, he said, for pity
had opened another door for him, and in another
home had he found honest hearts awaiting the
message he had to bring.
	It is needless here to relate his great joy and
satisfaction when he learned the effect his
teachings and books had had upon them, but
he accepted his good fortune in a grave and 
reverent manner, and the first thing he did
was to offer praise and thanksgiving to the
Lord for his success.  With Alice he was very
grave indeed, and pointed out her great risk
in adopting a faith contrary to her parents’
wishes; she ought, at least, to let them have the
same privilege as she had herself; they could
do no more than refuse to believe, as many
others had done.  Alice knew this was right,
and she liked him all the more for his frank
advice; she had feared to tell her parents, feel-
ing that they would ridicule her new friend
and perhaps deny her the privilege of seeing
him again, but now she would tell them all.
It had caused her considerable pain to think
that she had deceived them in anything.  That
night she waited long for an opportunity to
speak with them alone, but the evening wore
away without an opportunity, and at last, al-
most in tears, Alice retired to her chamber,
followed by her sister, who had noticed her
anxiety, and into her ears Alice poured the
whole story.
	“’Tis not the religion, Alice, that exercises
you so,” her sister replied, “your heart is
touched, you are in love, and are willing to
believe anything that man tells you, even if he
told you black was white. That’s what your 
philanthropy has led you into; I always thought
you were going too far, and told mamma as
much.”
	Poor Alice, what could she say?  She did not
believe she was in love, still she knew her new
friend held a certain influence over her, which
she could not define, and rebel as she might
against her sister’s injustice, she knew she
would have the same to meet from father and
mother.  That night she offered up a piteous
prayer, for she saw that in her happy, comfort-
able home a storm was rising, and she believed
herself to be the fault, yet she also knew that
something more had entered her life, something 
that, even for them, she could not resign.  In
the morning she sent a note, asking Mrs. War-
ner to conduct her new friend to her home and
she would introduce him to her parents.  They
came, and he spoke with them, but, alas! with
what results.  The mother wept and wailed, and
declared the fellow had tried to lead her beauti-
ful child astray, and he and his friends, as he
called them, were breaking up peaceful homes
and scattering distress wherever they went.
The father turned them out, and in a very
fierce manner, threatened to punish him severely
if ever again he heard of him interfering with
his family.
	Alice ceased visiting with her poor friends,
and tried to be reconciled to her home, but in
vain, and when, at the end of a month, her
little boy Henry (he could walk now), brought
her a note, she was overjoyed.  It was very


brief, written only to say that the missionaries
would occasionally visit near, and at certain
periods performed baptisms, and if her con-
science told her to accept the Gospel that she
might confer with them through the Warners,
who were now fully convinced, and had a great
testimony in the healing of Henry, which
would be a testimony unto her as well. Then
Henry told her how he had been anointed and
prayed for, and had improved, but was unable
to walk, and the missionary himself carried
him into the stream of water, where he was
baptized, and that immediately after that or-
dinance he had walked out of the stream and
had had no trouble ever since; “And as soon as
we can we are going to leave this place and
gather to Zion.”
	Her life at home seemed empty now, and she
resolved to explain all to her parents. She
had tried to forget her new faith and be the
same as usual, all to no use, and they must let
her choose for herself. She announced her de-
termination to her father, and strove to explain
how hard the struggle was to give up either
faith or home, and she begged him, as no child
ever plead before, to be lenient, and consider
her position, not to judge harshly, but to let
her love them and have their love the same as
ever, nay, she knew that now she loved them
more. Her pleadings and tears were alike
unavailing, and she had her choice, either to
give up her religion or her home. If she clung
to the first, he would have no more of her, and
she might go to her new found friends, she was
no daughter of his. She bowed to his will,
and left her home, not without great sorrow,
for she recalled her happy childhood and girl-
hood, the fond indulgence of her parents, and
as she placed together the few necessary arti-
cles she was to take with her, her heart ached
and bitter tears poured down her cheeks. Her
sister and mother were most scornful, for they
believed she would relent and return in a few
hours, and could not think her so sincere in
her belief as to leave such a home of luxury
for poverty, perhaps distress, but they little felt
the inducements the Gospel held, and could not
realize that worldly wealth faded into insignifi-
cence compared with the light and life which
had been revealed to her. Her father refused
to see her again, but her mother, tenderly re-
lenting, as she was about to leave, held her in
her arms and told her if ever she desired she
should come back to them; she gave her, also,
what ready money she had, and offered every
inducement if only she would remain and yield
to their wishes. This was a bitter trial to
Alice, but she knew sacrifices had to be made,
and that she could never feel the same again
if she remained at home, for she could not give
up a religion which held so much for her. She
kissed her mother and thanked her, and asked
for her blessing, and “whereever I am, dearest
mother, I shall always think of thee and this
last hour, and may your hearts be softened,
that you will receive me home again.” With
these words they parted, and the poor girl
heard her father’s door close behind her never
to be re-opened. How lonely it seemed, how
dreary in the street; twice she turned, as though
to retrace her steps, and each time something
whispered, “Do not turn back; the way looks
dark, but it will brighten as you proceed.” At
length she reached Mrs. Warner’s humble home
and told them her story. They were only too
glad to be able to do something for one who had
helped and befriended them so long.
	That night, towards midnight, when all was
hushed and still, with only the stars to light
them, and only the angels to guide them, a
small party wended their way to the river banks.
A beautiful prayer was there offered, and then
Alice’s stranger-friend, with head uncovered,
walked into the midst of the stream, a com-
anion of his followed, leading a young man
by the hand; they blessed and immersed him,

[Column 2]
even as it was done in the Savior’s time, and
then Alice herself was led forth and received
the same ordinance. She walked from the
water with hope revived, regrets all banished;
she had entered a new life, and her soul was
filled with most ecstatic joy.
	’Tis many years now since that sweet and
sacred night, and Alice has found her a new
home in a new land. She left old England
shortly after her baptism, and came a stranger
to Zion, but kind hearts were ready to receive
her. She never had many regrets, for, after
informing her friends of her baptism, they re-
fused to see her again; only her sister saw her
the night before she sailed.
	Two years after her arrival she became the
wife of the dear friend who had first brought
her the Gospel, and who declared he loved
her and felt as though she would be his the
first moment his eyes rested upon her.
	“Why, then,” replied she, “did you never tell
me before I came away?”
	“Can you not see, Alice, if I had brought
my own feelings before you, that your parents’
claim would have been verified, and you might
have believed me an impostor, claiming a new
faith to help me to win you? No; it was my
mission to teach the Gospel, and your gentle
yet firm way of receiving it afforded me great
happiness, and proved you to be free from
vanity and worldliness.”
	’Twas Christmas Eve, and all was quiet in
Alice’s home; the members of the household
walked with cautious step and spoke in an un-
dertone, for in one chamber of the house lay
our sweet Alice, with a tiny babe nestling in
her arms. She brightly returned her husband’s
smile. and whispered,
	“We will call our little one Camelia, our
Christmas Flower. It was that flower which
first led me to the Gospel, and to you, and per-
haps this little flower may be the means of
leading my family to us.”
	And she was, not all of them, for; the Christ-
mas which brought the little flower to earth,
took to another world Alice’s mother. After
this bereavement the father's heart softened,
and as the baby fingers first began to write,
and sent for grandpa to come, he obeyed, and,
with his remaining daughter, who always had
believed Alice to be right, but had not the
force to follow her, sought a refuge in the home
of the daughter he had so cruelly driven forth;
but he atoned to the little one for it all, and
“Grandpa’s pet is the purest, fairest little
flower a Christmas ever brought.”
	Annie K. Cannon ANNIE


106	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


07	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BELLS ARE RINGING.

Ringing! ringing! ringing as they rang
	Long, long ago!
With echoing peal and merry clang
	They come and go!
The children have played and sung, and laughed and
	wept,
And then grown old, and laid them down and slept;
And still, as the hours onward flow,
The bells are ringing for joy or woe!

Singing! chiming! pealing!—such a song
	Of joy and mirth!
Waking up echoes slumbering long
	Within the earth,—
Telling their tale of love, and hope, and happy days,—
From hill to valley the glad song they raise.
And still, as the hours come and go,
The bells are ringing for joy or woe!
Swinging sadly, solemnly, a mournful tone,
	Telling of death!
Of sorrowful hearts, that must wander alone
	On this weary earth;
Of silent forms. and hands that lie at rest,
Of voices forever hushed in a passionless breast;
While the changing hours come and go,
And the bells are ringing for joy or woe!


Softly rising and falling, at eventide
		Ring out the bells,
O'er the golden valleys far and wide
		Their music swells. 
And the children stop in their play; and stand to hear,
And the aged look up with a qui[-]t smile and a tear.
As they think of the hours that come and go,
While the bells are ringing for joy or woe!

Ringing! ringing! ringing. in the still night,
		A joyful chime !
While the world lies sleeping, robed in white, 
		At Christmas time,—	
Telling, with fresh sweet tones, the glad old story. 
Bringing a faint, soft echo from the land of glory
While the changing hours come and go,
And the bells are ringing for joy or woe!

Ringing! ringing! ringing, o’er the city
		With its mighty throng!
Soothing some hearts, all sad and weary,
		With their happy song.
Rising above the sin and sorrow, want and care,
Above the sounds of strife that fill the air;
And still, as the hours come and go,
The bells are ringing for joy or woe!

Ringing! ringing! ringing! recalling fast
		Old days gone by;
Unlocking the fair, green shadowy past
		To memory’s eye.
Telling of high resolve,—of longings noble, free,
Of golden moments gone by unheedingly! 
Of the changing hours that come and go,— 
Of their ever ringing for joy or woe!

Ringing! ringing! ringing ! still ring on,
		O, old-time bells! 			 
With tender pathos to each living one.
		Your music tells
That beauty, wealth, and joy must fade and die,
That man must spend his days as for eternity,
Where the changing hours will cease to flow,
Where ’tis never ringing for joy or woe!


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Miss C. Elbe has passed a successful examina-
tion in dentistry in Sweden.

	Mr. Blair, of New Hampshire, has intro-
duced in the U. S. Senate a bill for a constitu-
tional amendment giving suffrage to women.

	God openeth many hearts with gentle pick-
locks, while with others He useth the crowbar
of terrible judgments.— C. H. Spurgeon.

	Let grace and goodness be the principal load-
stone of thy affections. For love which hath
ends will have an end; whereas that which is
founded on true virtue will always continue.— 
Dryden.
	We can be thankful to a friend for a few
acres, or a little money; and yet for the freedom
and command of the whole earth, and for the
great benefits of our being, our life health and
reason, we look upon ourselves as under no obli-
gation.—Seneca.
	Pundita Ramabai is meeting with good suc-
cess in her effort to raise funds for a school to
educate Hindoo widows, who in turn shall
educate their countrywomen. “Ramabai
Circles” have been formed to raise money for
her during the next ten years, after which it is
hoped that the school will be self-supporting.
Rev. E. F. Hale, Phillips Brooks, and others
are at the head of the central organization, and
branches are forming all over the country. The
one at Cornell has already a large membership,
and there are circles in Chicago, Sioux Falls
and elsewhere. Everyone who has read her
heart-breaking book, “The High Caste Hindu
Woman,’' must wish the brave little lady suc-
cess in her work for her unfortunate country-
women,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms: 
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten 
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	
	SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15, 1887.


[Column 1]
﻿ELIZA ROXIE SNOW SMITH.

A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION.

	Early on the morning of Monday, December
5th, 1887, in the Lion House, Salt Lake City, at
five minutes past one o’clock, the spirit of our be-
loved “Sister Eliza” passed away from earth, as
she herself had so beautifully expressed,
“To unite with the choirs in celestial love.'
Among the sisters over whom she presided she
was spoken of as “The Elect Lady,” and was
reverenced as the title indicated wherever the
organizations of the Latter-day Saint women ex-
isted. Her name is engraved imperishably in the
hearts of this people. Her life and character were
in perfect keeping with the holy religion she had
embraced. Her example is before all Israel, and
accords harmoniously with the teachings she has
given, and the precepts she has taught.
	Her days were lengthened out far beyond the
three score and ten, but they were filled up with 
usefulness, good works and noble deeds.
	Her condition, for some considerable time past,
has been that of failing health and waning strength,
yet her friends, especially those who were fondly 
attached to her, could scarcely believe she was so
soon to leave them. There was no disease prey-
ing upon her system, but slowly from day to day
she grew weaker, until it became evident to those
around her, she was about to join the ranks of
those who have fought the good fight and over-
come. And there is no doubt but “commissioned
escorts were waiting by” to accompany her to “a
glorious mansion” on high, where Joseph, the
Prophet, her husband, whom she loved and hon-
ored, was awaiting her coming with joyous antici-
pation, and where she would meet her father and
mother, and sister Leonora, to whom she was most
strongly attached, and many others near and dear,
with whom she had labored here, and blessed and
comforted. It is our loss, but her great gain. We
shall miss her in the labors devolving upon the
sisters more than words can tell; she was a leader,
an organizer, and her counsel was of the wisest
and best. Her judgment was par excellence, and
her words always choice and well-spoken. Her
self-poise and dignity of bearing were as notice-
able in everyday life as on great occasions. She
possessed many rare gifts and accomplishments,
and had cultivated them to the highest degree pos-
sible under the circumstances with which she had
been surrounded from time to time. The gift of
poesy may be considered the highest of her intel-
lectual qualities, but the influence for good that
she exerted for the benefit of others, more es-
pecially her own sex, both by instruction and ex-
ample, was what constituted her more truly great
than any poem she has written. Her exemplary
life and purity of character was not only, as Elder
Nicholson expressed it, “from beginning to close
a beautiful poem,” but was the poem of poems of
all, in itself the most complete and perfect. “A
Pen Sketch” of her life and labors was published
during her life-time in the EXPONENT a few years

[Column 2]
ago, but since that time she has traveled in the
several Stakes of Zion, and assisted greatly in de-
veloping the latent talent existing among the asso-
ciations, and encouraging that perseverance which
ever ensures success, Her words of kindness to
the young, and her tender solicitation for their
spiritual and eternal welfare should never be for-
gotten by any who have had the pleasure and
honor of sitting under the sound of her voice.
Notwithstanding the sketch of Sister Eliza, pub-
lished heretofore in these columns, it is but a
fitting tribute to her memory to review briefly her
public work, and to give a short memorial of her-
self.
	Eliza R. Snow was born at Becket, Berkshire
Co., Mass., January 21st, 1804. Her parents were
Oliver Snow of Mass., and Rosetta Leonora Petti-
bone of Conn. She was the second child of her
parents; Leonora A. Snow was the eldest. Leonora
was afterwards the wife of the Patriarch Isaac
Morley, who became identified with the Church at
a very early period of its history. Sister L. A.
Morley died at her brother Lorenzo’s home, in
Brigham City, Feb. 11th, 1872. The two sisters
were affectionately devoted to each other, and the
death of Sister Leonora was a sad blow to Sister
Eliza, leaving her more lonely, and causing her,
no doubt, to cling more fondly still to her favorite
brother, the Apostle, Lorenzo Snow. The rela-
tion of this brother and sister to each other has
been that of the most sublime and perfect devo-
tion.
	In 1806 Oliver Snow, with his wife and two
children, Leonora and Eliza, removed to Ohio and
settled in Mantua, Portage Co. It seems scarcely
necessary to say here, that the girls, Leonora and
Eliza, received the most careful and complete edu-
cation in the best schools of the day, and also ex-
cellent home-training under the management of a 
wise and judicious mother; these together laid the
foundation of a useful and honorable life.
	Early in her girlhood Miss Eliza R. Snow be-
came known and somewhat celebrated for her
poetical effusions, and even though young, she
chose lofty and exalted themes. She created quite
a sensation by writing at the time of the struggle
between Greece and Turkey, a poem, entitled,
"The Fall of Missilonghi." It is well known, to
all familiar with the history of this people, that
since Sister Eliza became a member of this 
Church she has devoted her best thoughts and her
pen to poems and writings upon the subjects and
themes of the Latter-day Saints; and in the midst
of trials, hardships, persecutions and difficulties
of various kinds, her mission has been to comfort, 
encourage, strengthen and bless, in the rare gift of 
poesy, all who labor for Zion and promote its in-
terests at home or abroad. She was baptized on
the 5th of April, 1835, and in December of the 
same year went to Kirtland, and boarded in the
family of the Prophet. While residing in the 
Prophet's house she taught his children in the ca-
pacity of governess, and was an intimate compan-
ion of Emma, the Prophet's wife. During her
sojourn in the home of the Prophet Joseph, the
friendship began which many years after-
wards ripened into the purest love, crowning
their union as husband and wife in the holy bonds
of matrimony. Sister Eliza enjoyed the blessings
and privileges vouchsafed to the Saints in the
Kirtland Temple at the time of its dedication, and 
on many other occasions, when gifts and
manifestations of the Spirit were so richly poured
out upon the assembled gatherings in that sacred
place.
	When the Saints moved up to Missouri. Sister
Eliza went thither with her father's family, arriving
in Far West, Caldwell, Co., Mo., on the 16th of 
July, 1837. In that State the Saints suffered
severe and cruel persecutions, and Sister Eliza
participated in the sorrows and afflictions. On
the 10th of December, 1838, in the cold bleak
winter weather, Sister Eliza, with her father's

[Column 3]

family, left her home in Davies Co., Mo., where
her father had purchased lands and settled,
having been ordered by the Governor of the State
to leave within ten days. The benevolent attri-
butes and sympathies of Sister Eliza, and in fact
the whole Snow family, were fully aroused at this
time in witnessing the pathetic scenes of sorrow
and of suffering that the Saints were called upon
to endure in that time of excessive trial. The 
family of Bro. Snow left Far West, whither they
had gone during the times of persecution, on the 
5th of March, 1839; the weather was then very
cold, but they were exiles driven from their homes
and possessions. Sister Eliza and her sister
Leonora stopped in Quincy, Ill, and Bro. Snow
and family went to the northern part of that State.
In Quincy Sister Eliza wrote some very character-
istic articles for the press, and received very press-
ing solicitations to contribute other poetical 
articles. It was thought a novelty to find such
rare genius in a "Mormon" girl. From Quincy
the Misses Snow went to Lima, and there, for a 
time, supported themselves with needlework, in
which art Sister Eliza excelled, and of which pur-
suit she was very fond. In July Sidney Rigdon
sent for Miss E. R. Snow to come up to Commerce,
afterwards called Nauvoo, to teach his family 
school. In Nauvoo many important events oc-
curred, which have had a bearing upon her life
ever after. It was in Nauvoo that she wrote the
most sublime and lofty poetry, and an inspiration 
from on high seemed resting upon her constantly.
The revelations of God were poured out in rich
abundance at that time upon the Prophet Joseph, 
and Sister Eliza, in her poetie sentiments, seemed 
to share in the inspiration from above.
	At this period a new era dawned upon woman;
marriage and motherhood were supremely glorified
and eternal principles were revealed, and blessings
and eternal principles were revealed, and blessings
and privileges bestowed upon the faithful, great
in their future promise, not only for time but
reaching into the eternities to come.
	It was about this time that Sister Eliza com-	
posed "The Invocation," which so beautifully
portrays the home of our Father and Mother in
heaven, and so forcibly impresses the idea of
celestial union upon the Latter-day Saints, and
many strangers even, when they hear it sung for
the first time. These sublime sentiments, so
beautifully given, have been like a sweet and 
grateful incense to the hearts of many who yearned
for some expression of the intense emotion they
had not language to define. The hymn is full of
tenderness, and yet the strength of language carries
conviction with the words, The gift of prophecy 
is noticeable in the writings of this eminent
woman, and always seemed to fall gracefully from
either her lips or her pen.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow was Secretary of the Relief
Society organized in Nauvoo (of which Emma
Smith was President),  and she preserved the re-
cords, which have been quite important for refer-
ence many times since. The Prophet and other
leading men were in the habit of meeting with
the sisters there and giving valuable advice and
instruction. In July 1842, Miss Snow, the Secre
tary, had the honor of writing a petition to Gov.
Carlin, asking his protection for Joseph Smith. 
This petition was met with enthusiasm, and 
received the unanimous vote of the Relief Society,
and was signed by several hundred ladies. The
President, Mrs Emma Smith, Mrs. Amanda Smith
and Miss E. R. Snow were a committee to call up-
on the Governor at his residence in Quincy, Ill.
He received them cordially, and with great courtesy
listened to the purport of their visit, which was
presented by Mrs. E. Smith, and her Secretary 
presented the petition. The Governor responded
kindly, and gave assurances of his protection, say-
ing emphatically, "I believe Mr. Smith is inno-
cent." The ladies afterwards learned that at the
very time he was giving these assurances to them,


[Column 1]
he was plotting with Missouri officials for the de-
struction of the Prophet.
	Joseph Smith taught the principle of celestial
marriage to Miss Snow, and she believed his in-
spired words and became his wife in that holy
order of matrimony, and felt that no sacrifice was 
too great to establish again on earth the new and
and everlasting covenant of marriage, through the
holy order of the Melchisedec Priesthood. In the
Temple at Nauvoo Sister Eliza received a fulness
of the ordinances and blessings that were given
in that sacred house of the Lord. At the time of
the exodus she came with the first company that
left Nauvoo in February, and crossed the Missis-
sippi in the company of Col. Stephen Markham 
and family, and camped with thousands of others
who were living in tents and wagons preparatory
to starting on the journey to the Rocky Mountains.
On the 19th of February, 1846, she wrote a poem,
expressing the condition of the exiles; and after-
wards, again and again, poetry possessing origin-
ality and graphically describing the scenes and 
incidents in the lives and journeyings of the
Saints. Col. Markham stopped by the way, as 
did many others, to put in grain and make settle-
ments of those who were to follow. On the 19th 
of August they left Mt. Pisgah minus a teamster,
and Sister Markham falling sick, Sister Eliza was
left to drive. She said she soon learned to "haw
and gee," and acquitted herself creditably. On
the 27th they crossed the Missouri River at Council
Bluffs, and the next day arrived at Winter Quar-
ters. With the continued hardship and constant 
exposure Sister Eliza's health broke down, a slow 
fever set in and chills and fever followed, and she
lay in the wagon very ill; the heavy autumnal rains 
came on, and she was often dripping wet from 
head to foot; she herself realized her condition,
and that she was near the gates of death. She
summoned all her energies, and supreme faith came  
to her aid, though many died in consequence of
the priyation and hardships. When Sister Eliza 
was still ill and very feeble, she received the sad 
news of her mother's death. She bore it with the
patience and resignation characteristic of her
whole life, though she grieved that she could
never again behold her again in the flesh.
	In June, 1847, after the Pioneers had started
enroute to the Rocky Mountains to seek out a 
resting place for the Saints, Sister Eliza continued 
her pilgrimage with the family of Bro. Robert
Pearce, in the company under charge of Captain
Jedediah M. Grant. When this company would
find the track of the pioneers, and here and there
"all well" on a bleached buffalo skull, there was a 
general time of rejoicing. This company arrived 
in the valley early in October, and President
Young had made arrangements for Sister Eliza to 
live, with Sister Clara D. Young, who had accom-
panied him in the pioneers, and from that time un-
til her death Sister Eliza resided with the family of
Brigham Young, and after the Lion House was
built she lived there permanently until her death.
	Sister Eliza was designated by Joseph Smith
the Prophet, "Zion's Poetess," a title she has al-
ways retaiaed, and from time to time she has con-
tinued to write, to within a few months of her de-
mise. When the Relief Society was reorganized
in the valleys here, President Young gave Sister
Eliza a mission to assist the bishops in organizing,
and to take with her as a help and counselor Sis-
ter Zina D. Young. From that time to this she
has labored earnestly and faithfully in the interests 
of the women of Zion, traveling from place to 
place in all kinds of weather, wherever there was
an opportunity of doing good among the people.
	In 1869 Prest. Young called upon Sister Eliza to 
aid him in effecting an organization of Young 
Ladies, commencing with his own daughters, in
which she assisted; it was called a Retrenchment 
Association. Resolutions were prepared by her,
which Prest. Young approved, setting forth the

[Column 2]

object of the members in meeting together. These 
organizations were afterwards called Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Associations, and have since
been organized in every ward in the several Stakes
of Zion.
	The next most important event in the life of 
Sister Eliza was her journey to the Holy Land.
Apostle Lorenzo Snow met her in Ogden, and
Prest. Geo. A. Smith joined the party in New
York. Sister E. R. S. S. left Salt Lake City on
the 26th of October, 1872. The company sailed
on the steamer Minnesota for Liverpool on the 6th 
of November.
	Sister Eliza's visits while in the Holy Land to 
the places of note are all graphically described in
the book entitled, "Correspondence of the Pales-
tine Toursits." We shall only mention her visit
to the Mount of Olives. On Sunday, March 2nd,  
1873, with Prest. George A. Smith and party, all
mounted on horseback, she ascended to the sum-
mit of that far-famed mountain. They had sent
before them tent, table, seats and carpet. The 
tent was pitched and service conducted there under 
the direction of the holy priesthood. It would be 
impossible to give in detail at this time the places 
she visited, or the poetic thoughts she poured
forth in verse, but she fully enjoyed visiting these
places noted in sacred history, and was always 
pleased to relate incidents concerning her travels
abroad, and particularly interested in conversing 
with those who had traveled over the same lands. 
Sister Eliza reached home on the evening of the
6th of July. In the EXPONENT of August 1st she 
published a "Salutation to the Ladies in Utah," ex-
pressing her joy, her good feeling and her sisterly
love, and on the 17th of August she addressed a 
very large assembly of ladies in the Ogden Taber-
nacle, and afterwards in Provo, and from that time 
onward, as long as she was physically able, she 
traveled among the people, organizing the sisters
encouraging and interesting them in the duties
pertaining to their missions here upon earth; and
the rich seed planted by her is bearing precious
fruit in the hearts and lives of the women and
children throughout the valleys of the mountains.
There are so many important events connected
with the life of Sister Eliza, when one reflects upon
the past, that they would fill volumes, and we need
only say that her whole life and energies were de-
voted and consecrated to the work of God upon the earth.
	At the Sisters' Quarterly Conference, held in the 
Assembly Hall in this city, June 19th, 1880, Prest. 
John Taylor nominated Sister E. R. S. Smith to
preside over the Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ in all the world, and she was sus-
tained by the unanimous vote of the conference.
She chose as her Counselors at that time Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who
were also nominated by Prest. Taylor and sus-
tained in like manner; Sister Sarah M. Kimball 
as Secretary, and Sister M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer, and at the General Conference in 
April, afterwards these sisters were sustained by 
unanimous vote. Sister Eliza has had many ova-
tions and tributes of honor, and she has proved 
worthy of all. She leaves behind her excellent
example and teachings, and her books, which will
preserve her memory ever fresh in the archives of
of the Church. Sister Eliza has ever been brave,
strong and unflinching in the positions she has 
held, and such a life needs no comment, for her
words and her works speak for her, but the
daughters of Zion should emulate her wise ex-
ample and follow in her footsteps.
		FUNERAL SERVICES.
	Sister Eliza's remains lay in the Lion House
parlor after her death until Wednesday morning,
Dec. 7th. The families of Lorenzo Snow and
Brigham Young assembled at the Lion House on 
that morning; also many of her intimate friends
and co-laborers, and these followed in procession 
to the Assembly Hall. The coffin, which was of

[Column 3]

native wood, highly polished, was carried by the
members of the High Council of this Stake, un-
der the direction of Prest. Angus M. Cannon.
The congregation assembled there was very large, 
and no woman could have more respect paid her
than was given to this distinguished woman--
Zion's Poetess and The Elect Lady.
	The organ and the speakers' stands were draped
in white, in accordance with the wishes of the de-
ceased, and long sprays of green vines were hung
in such a way as to give a graceful and pretty ef-
fect to the drapery. Vases of flowers were
placed here and there upon the stands. On and
around the coffin, which rested in front of the 
Bishops' stand, were choice flowers in the most
beautiful designs, wreaths, crosses, anchors,
crowns, etc., the gifts of loving friends, and a 
sheaf of ripe wheat, tied with white ribbon, em-
blematic of her ripe age, and that her work was 
finished. Prest. Angus M. Cannon conducted 
the services. The choir sang the hymn beginning,
		"I know that my Redeemer lives."
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Alexander Mc-
Rae.
	The choir sang the beautiful hymn composed 
by Sister Eliza herself. 
		"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest,"
		PRESIDENT ANGUS M. CANNON.
	The sentiments we have just heard sung are 
sublime sentiments of devotion to our God. Our 
sister, whose casket lies before us, was well quali-
fied to come to earth at the time of her advent.
From the time she heard the inspired utterances
of the Prophet, her efforts were solely directed to
sustaining the servants of God. Her poetic muse
took the most exquisite flights. When her voice 
has been heard it has been heard stimulating her
sisters to glorify the Creator. The speaker had 
been intimately acquainted with the deceased of
late years, more so than formerly, although in 
boyhood he had looked upon her as among the
noblest of her sex. She was fitted to be the wife 
of the great Prophet of the Nineteenth century. 
Her husband had given his life's blood for the 
cause of redemption. She had followed his
teachings faithfully. Of late her heart had been
moved by a prospect of her brethren and sisters
having to pass through great tribulation, before
the deliverance of the Saints should be accom-
plished. The speaker paid a glowing tribute to 
the worth of the departed, who was exemplary 
and noble in every particular during her earthly
probation.
		ELDER JOSEPH C. KINGSBURY
endorsed every word already spoken concerning
our deceased sister, who was one of the earliest
to embrace the truth and the new and everlasting
covenant. She had made a sacrifice that had 
been accepted of the Lord. So also should we be
ready to make any sacrifice that may be required 
of us, that we may be justly entitled to a similar
reward.
		ELDER J. B. NOBLE.
	He was grateful for the opportunity to bear his
testimony to the worth of Sister Eliza. From the
commencement of her labors in this work he was
favored with her society. He crossed the desert 
from Nauvoo to this valley in her company. Her 
life has been one of the very highest grade. She 
has accomplished a mighty work in the fullest 
sense. It behooves us to look into our own 
hearts, that we may ascertain whether we also are
obeying the golden rule. He asked the blessing 
of the Lord upon the relatives and the sisters of
the deceased, that they may emulate her virtues,
and be worthy to associate with her in eternity.
		ELDER JACOB GATES
was glad of the opportunity of bearing testimony
to the goodness of the respected dead. It was
pleasing to see so large an assembly on this occa-


sion. Had known Sister Eliza for many years.
She was second to none of the prominent women
of this last dispensation. She nobly filled the
mission to which she was appointed in the early
rise of the Church. She never wavered nor fal-
tered, but her faith was onward and upward to
the very climax of human excellence. But a
short time hence and but few will remain who
were familiar with the Prophet Joseph Smith, but
the triumph of this work is approaching. What
we are now passing through is the work of purifi-
cation and preparation for the consummation of
the designs of God in relation to His people and
Church.
		APOSTLE JOHN W. TAYLOR
was thankful to hear the eulogies that had been
passed upon the deceased, whom he had known
from his infancy, although not closely acquainted
with her. She had finished her work, and would
reap her reward accordingly. The works of Sis-
ter Smith are before us all. We can pattern after
them with profit. She embraced the everlasting
Gospel and is entitled to the promise given by the
Redeemer in relation to those who forsake earthly
relatives and interests for His sake. As George
Washington is called the father of his country, so
is our sister entitled,in a certain sense,to be desig-
nated the mother of this people. Her career
makes the endearing title appropriate as applied
to her. She would continue to live in the hearts
and memories of the Saints.
		ELDER MILO ANDRUS
said hehad been acquainted with Sister Eliza for 45
years. He had never seen a speck that would in-
dicate a misstep in her life. He bore testimony to
the goodness and virtues she had exhibited during
her sojourn on earth. This occasion was not a
subject of mourning. Thousands will call her
mother in Israel and enjoy her society forever.
When she meets the acts she performed on the
earth, she will be able to confront the record with-
out hesitation; therefore all is well. In all the
tribulations and hardships suffered by the Saints
on the deserts and elsewhere, the speaker had
never observed a symptom of a murmur from the
deceased. Such a statement could be made in re
lation to but few.
			ELDER A. O. SMOOT.
	Words of eulogy would fail to add anything to
the characteristics of Sister Smith. She has been
known in the Church almost from the beginning,
and is well known to the present generation
What I might say in relation to my acquaintance
with her would not affect her condition. She has
testified in various ways to the excellence and
power of truth. She has done this not only by
precept, but also by example, which speaks in
louder tones. It is but little use to repeat the
story of her good works. Let us endeavor to so
live that we will meet her with Joseph, Hyrum
and David Patten—the martyrs who have sacri-
ficed their lives for the truth’s sake.
		ELDER JOHN NICHOLSON
said, in substance, that the whole being of the
departed had been devoted to the legitimate pur-
pose of the Creator. Her works were the pro-
duct of a proper and active use of a bright intellect,
a keen moral susceptibility, and a sympathetic
nature. Many of her mental productions are left
to us clothed in all the beauty that chaste language
and poetic imagery could give them. Her whole
life, being of an elevated character, was from be-
ginning to close, a beautiful poem.
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY
said he would not attempt to say a hundredth part
of what he felt. It fell to his lot, on two oc-
casions, during the last illnes of our sister, to lay
hands upon her head and bless her in the name
of the Lord. He could not but mark the flow of the

[Column 2]
Spirit, there being apparently no end to the prom- 
ises he felt to make her. She not only has the confidence of her earthly associates, but the ap-
proval of the Spirit of God, which cannot err.
She was one of the noble and great ones of the
earth. It was the lot of the deceased to be hon-
ored both of God and man This is not always
the case with the good and pure. She not only
held public position and trust, but she wisely, just-
ly and kindly used the powers with which she was
thus entrusted. She is not dead, but lives. May
God help us to emulate the example of our sister
who has left us for a holier shere.
		APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT,
Said nothing that could be expressed would add
to the record of Sister Eliza. He knew of no in-
dividual who was more worthy of eternal blessings.
Instead of mourning we may rejoice that one so
good and pure has gone home to reap a glorious
reward. It is a day of rejoicing to her. He had
been intimately acquainted with the departed from
his early youth, and had been the recipient of
many marks of kindness at her hands. Language
was inadequate to enable the speaker to express
himself as he wished. He set great store upon
the good examples of the faithful, which were
more potent than precepts. There was no exam-
ple ever set by Sister Eliza except that which was
of such a character that it could be profitably fol-
lowed. The speaker contemplated her career with
pleasure and was glad that she had gone to join
the ranks of the faithful and true, her work in this
life having been fully accomplished.
		PRESIDENT CANNON
explained some of the last wishes of the deceased.
She had desired that no one should be around her
in her last moments who was unable to control his
or her emotions. She wished that no mourning 
should be expressed. The emblems with which the stand were decorated were in accordance with 
her choice. She maintained to the last that woman-
ly serenity and dignity that had characterized her 
entire career. She still lives in the organizations 
she was instrumental in establishing among her
sisters, and in the good which she had produced.
One of her beautiful traits was her humility, ex-
hibited in her submission to the instructions of her
brethren whose prerogative it was to direct her
labors.
	The choir sang the beautiful song composed by
the deceased:
	“Bury me quietly when I die,”
	Benediction by Patriarch John Smith.
	The congregation passed in line around the cas-
ket and viewed the face of the dead.
	The cortege which followed the remains to the
private cemetery of the late President Brigham
Young was formed under the direction of Bishop
John R. Winder. Members of the High Council
of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion acted as pallbear-
ers. Immediately following the casket were Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow and other relatives of the de-
ceased. then the widows of the late President
Young and other intimate associates of the de-
ceased; following these were members of the Re-
lief Society, over which Sister Smith
had presided, the general assemblage bringing up
the rear.
	At the grave Apostle Heber J. Grant offered
the dedicatory prayer, and President Angus M.
Cannon thanked the people for showing their re-
spect for the deceased by turning out in such
large numbers, The mortal remains of one of
the noblest and purest women were laid in their
last resting-place, to await the trump of the res-
urrection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We take pleasure in acknowledging the receipt
of a novel and handy little calendar, for 1888, from
Pope Mfg. Co., Boston, Mass,	The calendar


proper is in the form of a pad, containing a leaf
for each day in the year, with appropriate quota-
tions on each. A portion of each leaf is left
blank for memoranda, so arranged that the mem-
orandum can be turned to at any time. The pad
rests on a portable stand, and when placed on the 
desk or writing table, the entire surface of the date 
leaf, furnishing date and memoranda, is brought
before the eye.


﻿INTERESTING PARTY.

	On the evening of Friday, October 21st,
1887, a most delightful surprise party was ten-
dered to Mrs. Jane S. Richards, President of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion, in the
Fourth Ward School House, Ogden City. The
movers in the matter were Sister Emily Shurt-
liff, Counselor to the President of the Stake,
and Sisters Marianna Stratford, Maria Cham-
bers and Elizabeth Parkinson, Presidency of
the Fourth Ward Relief Society.
	It was successfull in every respect. Sister
Richards and her family had no inkling of it
until they reached the school house, where a 
large company of invited guests awaited them.
Sister Richards, though very much opposed to
praise or undue attention for herself, was
obliged to yield to the very sincere manner and
charming nature of the compliment paid to
her. 
	An elegant banquet was spread, and music,
songs, recitations and speeches occupied the
time, except while the guests were conversing
and feasting at the table. 
	Apostle Richards gave an entertaining and
instructive speech, full of helpful counsel to
the sisters. 
	The following address, accompanied by a 
tasteful little memento, was presented to Sister
Richards:
	“The object of our meeting togother this even-
ing is, as has been announced, a social gather-
ing of brethren and sisters, a reunion of friends,
while our main object is to show our apprecia-
tion of, and our sincere love for our worthy
and highly esteemed President, Sister Jane S.
Richards.
	Dear Sister, we shall not attempt this even-
ing to enumerate all your many virtues, nor to
elaborate upon your noble example; your life
and labors are well known to us  all, and are
recorded in heaven, where each will be re-
warded according to the deeds done in the body.
While not working for earthly honors, or the
praise of man, still it is comforting sometimes
to know that one’s labors are appreciated by
those with whom we are associated, and it is
our desire on this occasion to tell in a few
words that we do appreciate your labors as a 
helping friend and a leader in our midst.
	Women of wealth and culture all through
the civilized world are devoting their best
energies to the solution of the problem of social
improvement; but does it have for its basis the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, the development of the 
inner life of feeling and of soul from which 
springs all that is highest and holiest in man-
kind? No; religion is of no import with them.
In this the women of Zion stand as leaders
among women.
	All honor, then, to the noble women of Zion!
among whom stands prominently our worthy 
President. As an organizer you have achieved
much; as a leader your example has ever been
to inspire nobler and loftier sentiments in the
hearts of your sisters. Your counsels have
ever been fraught with that wisdom that
emanates from on high. You have sowed the
seeds of love and union, truth and justice
wherever you have labored. A higher, better
type of womanhood has been your aim; onward
and upward has been your motto. Your whole 
life has been responsive to the melody the
angels sang-—"Peace on earth and good will to


men.” And your labors have not been in
public alone; they have reached into the homes
of the Latter-day Saints; the sick have been
comforted and blessed; the poor aided and made
glad; the despondent cheered and lifted up and
the careless reclaimed, and, as our Savior once
said, “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of
the least of these, ye have done it unto me.”
	But we will not multiply words, only ask
you to accept this small gift, as a token of the
love and esteem in which you are held by the
sisters of the Fourth Ward Relief Society.
	Praying that heaven’s choicest blessings may
rest upon you during your remaining days upon
the earth, after which a happy reunion with
friends in the celestial kingdom of our God, we
subscribe ourselves.
		Yours sisters in the Gospel of peace,
	THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE 
		FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OF 
		OGDEN CITY.
	Oct. 21st, 1887.

	Mrs. Richards responded with a few words
well chosen, and expressive of loving regard
for her co-workers in the noble cause of hu-
manity.
	The ladies who managed the affair are to be
congratulated upon its success, and the good
taste with which it was conducted.  
								COM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SANDWICH ISLAND LETTER.
				LAIE, Nov. 16th, 1887.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	No doubt all your readers are fond of shells,
coral, moss and seaweed, the love of things 
pretty and beautiful being an inheritance from 
our divine father and mother.
	There are not many varieties of shells here;
one kind, common in some parts of America,
is the periwinkle, being found in plenty on our
beach, it one only knows how to look for them.
There are also a few kinds of graceful oblong 
cream and brown shells, of which I do not
know the names, found over on the “Island”
and at a beach between here and Kokuku,
about four miles from here in fact.
	One shell hunt, down near our bath house,
is framed in rosy tender colors, and hangs in
sad memory’s halls with the few happy scenes
which have brightened my life here.
	My dear friend, J. L., and her sister, M. J.
D., and myself started out one lovely golden
afternoon; accompanied by Lule, Jay, Karl,
Ina and Helen, with babies Joseph & Wesley,
our blessed little tribe of children, and down 
through the green pasture, over the rock fence
near Kekouoha’s, then over the grassy road,
hills and hollows, through the sand, and here 
we came to the boathouse and bathhouse, very
primitive structures both, but good enough for 
the purposes for which they were made. The 
children are undressed, and a calico apron
makes their bathing suit: Off they go, catch-
ing huge sand-spiders or crabs, digging in the
sand, picking up bits of sea playthings, running
after the circling, silver-lipped waves as they
ripple and patter up and down with the sandy beach,
and calling and screaming with wild childish
laughter at their romp and play. 
	Our bathing suits are soon donned, M. J.
refusing to share in the sport, preferring to
sit on the beach and watch the babies. Away
we run, decorously and slowly, till we, too, are
in the enfolding fingers of the pretty wavelets
at our feet. 
	It is not beautiful, ever new, always strange,
this glorious wonder of sea, earth and sky?
The irregular line of shore, now pushing bold-
ly out into the blue domain of the sea, anon
retreating into tiny bays; the green hills and 
pastures come fairly down to meet and greet

[Column 2]
the higher waves that splash and roar over the
verdant mead, leaving in its tangles rare treas-
ures of shell and moss, as it in compliment to
the welcome visitor.
	Behind us stretch away and up the panorama
of cottages, white and brown, in their grassy
setting of green grass, there being one lack,
the lack of the foliage of trees and vines to
beautify the little homes scattered about; owing 
to the salt trade wind, which is still too cool
and refreshing to lose, the distant sombre 
mountains making a background worthy the
picture.
	The sea, brilliant and restless, its waves al-
ways, always coming to you in playful greeting,
or in wild menace, the brown rocks and islands,
out in the depths, washed and caressed by the
same restless waters; and over all, the familiar
wonder of turquoise and pearl, the radiant arch
softened and mellowed by the glorious rays of
the day god.
	We have sighed with the fulness and power
of the beauty around us, and at last come down
to every day life and our shell hunt.
	I just wish you could see us in our red bath-
ing suits, quite unromantic generally, out in 
the breakers, or right where the waves first
break, down on our knees, scrabbling and
scratching, rolling and plunging, sand in our
hair, shells in our mouths, and attempting
wildly to keep our foothold or kneehold, in
the yielding sand.
	You get fascinated with the sport. You see,
the shells are just below the surface of the sand,
and you have to scrape and feel along the sand
with your hands and feet, and as you feel a 
sharp point, pick it up and put it into your
mouth. This sounds very easy to tell it, but
when I add that the frolicsome, mischievous
waves are rolling and shifting the sand every
instant, for you are right where it beats first on
the shore, and, that the blow of the wave,
small though it is, as it breaks (and they do
every second moment in all kinds of weather),
dashes you this way and that, sometimes roll-
ing you over in the sandy water, and filling 
nose, ears and mouth with a clever mixture of
salt, sand and water, after you hear all this,
you will know it isn't so easy as it sounds.
	You can often gather a hundred of the shells
in in afternoon; but you must remember that
so large a number but makes a tiny pile of
shells, they are so small and take up so little
room; indeed I think I could hold fifty or sixty
in my double hands. 
	After we have collected all J. wishes to get 
that day, we go out into deeper waters and take
a swim, for we can really swim, and we conse-
quently float and manoeuver about for another
hour, and then go reluctantly to change our
clothes, and go back to Laui Kuli, our walk
spiced with happy talk and chatter, the child-
ren keeping up a running accompaniment with
both legs and tongues. Oh, happy day, oh,
happy past! to take this picture down, and as I
brush the dust away to explain its beauties to
you, my heart aches with bitter, unavailing
pain, and the tears in my throat are like to
choke me! I am the brown wave dashed rock,
old with sorrow, young in joy, yet trying, oh,
so hard; Aunt Em, to look into the light and
lovliness above me, knowing that somewhere
there, the absent are making ready for me. 
						HOMESPUN.


FOR THE BENEFIT OF MOTHERS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking the following from Josephus might 
aid to inspire mothers to bring up their child-
ren as heroes for God and righteousness, I ask 
that you insert it in the EXPONENT:
	In the days of ancient Israel cruelties the 
most atrocious are recorded concerning the acts

[column 2]
of their enemies, some of which rival, if not 
excel, the cruel persecutions of the Latter-day
Saints. Among the many cruelties recorded in 
history, we notice that of King Antiochus,
whose persecution of the Maccabees has stamped
his name with eternal disgrace and imfamy.
This tyrant, seated upon a tribunal, surrounded
by his counselors and a strong body of armed
men, commanded many of the Hebrews to be
summoned into his presence on account of their
refusal to eat swine's flesh and meats offered to 
idols. Numbers suffered the death penalty
rather than to eat thus, among whom was 
Eleazer, a noted person, of the family of the
priests, by profession, who was also a lawyer, 
far advanced in years, and known to several of 
the summoned multitude. Antiochus, observ-
ing the venerable sage, thus addressed him:
"Before I proceed to use severity, let me advise
thee, reverend old man, to save thine own life
by submitting to eat of swine flesh, for I pay 
great respect to thy age and grey hairs, and am 
surprised that the experience of so many years
should not have made thee wiser than still to
persist in the Jewish superstition. It seems to
me a most unreasonable thing for men to
abridge themselves of any innocent pleasure, 
thus doing great injustice to themselves.' But
Eleazar, having time to speak for himself to the
King, replied that he would not eat the king's 
meats, for it was unclean, as God who created
our nature had due regard to it."
	"Eleazar, having made this noble and spiritual
reply to the tyrant, was then dragged by the
guards that stood round, to suffer the most 
cruel torment. The guards pulled off the old
man’s garments, the venerable garb of his re-
ligion, and, having bound his hands behind
him. scourged him most unmercifully, an officer
calling out at every stroke, "Obey the King's 
command." The brave Eleazar, however, sus-
tained this barbarity as if he had been in a 
dream, without deviating a tittle from his pro-
fession. The good old man stood with his eyes 
uplifted to heaven, while the blood streamed
down his body to the ground. No longer able 
to sustain the torments he felt, he fell upon the 
pavement. One of the guards stamped upon 
him in order to raise him; still he bore their 
barbarous insolence with surprising constancy,
suffering their stripes till his very tormentors
stood in admiration, and wondered to find so
noble a soul in a body so aged. Not being able 
to change him, they brought him to the fire.
There they applied new instruments of torture; 
threw him upon the fuel, and as he burned,
poured scalding nauseous liquid up his nostrils.
Burned to the very bone, and ready to expire,
he lifted up his eyes to heaven: "Thou seest,
my God, the miseries I endure, and that I
choose to die by fire and torment for the sake of 
Thy law. Be Thou gracious, Lord, to Thy own
people, and let the vengeance on me suffice for
what they have deserved. Make Thou my
blood purification for them, and accept my life
instead of lives." With these words this pious
man gave up the ghost.
	“Pursuant to the order of the aforsaid, there
were brought before the tyrant seven sons with
their ancient mother. The symmetry of their
forms and elegance of their deportment at-
tracted his notice, and, therefore, after behold-
ing them with a kind of approbation, he com-
manded them to approach, and thus accosted
them: The officers told the aged mother and 
seven sons to obey the king's law, but they 
would not do it. The tyrant said, "You have
nothing to expect but racks, fire and death."
The tyrant had no sooner thus spoken than he
commanded the instruments of torture to be
produced, in order to work more strongly upon
their fears; their words and menaces, he im-
agined would accomplish the design. When 
the guards had set before them the wheels,
racks and combustible materials, and other 
instruments of horror and execution, Antiochus,


taking advantage of the impression he sup-
posed this spectacle, would make, once more
appealed to them in turns to this effect, but they
were so far from being terrified that they de-
nied obedience to the king. One of the officers
said, “You are about to suffer torture, and you
cannot endure it.” One of the sons said, “Try
us, and see if it be in thy power to destroy our
souls when we suffer in the cause of God and
religion.” The officer asked them to eat of the
king’s meat, but in vain. The one answered,
“Think not, base man, that your wheels can
destroy my reason. Break my limbs in pieces,
burn my flesh; it is the peculiar glory of a
Hebrew to be firm in suffering for the cause of
virtue.” They then put fire under him, and
exposed his body to the flames, insomuch that
he exhibited, a spectacle horrible to behold,
thus continuing till nothing was left of him
but a skeleton of broken bones. He was not
heard to utter a groan. He was a descendant
of faithful Abraham, and exclaimed, “My
brethren, follow my example; desert me not in
this noble conflict, nor disclaim the relation and
generous constancy by which we are allied in
soul more nearly than in blood."
	The guards advanced with the second brother,
and fixed his hands in manacles of iron. They
talked to him before they put him to the rack;
they tore off the flesh with pinchers, and flayed
off the skin of his face and head; they skinned
him from head to foot. Not content with
mangling his body in this merciless manner,
they dragged him to the wheel, where, being
yet more distended, he saw his own flesh torn
from him, and streams of blood gushing from
his body. When at the point of death, he ex-
claimed, “Merciless tyrant!” The fifth ex-
claimed, “Do we not worship the universal
parent of nature?” They fastened his knees
with iron tongs, stretched him round the engine,
and then broke his joints, he bearing testimony
to the truth of his religion.
	The sixth youth was brought before An-
tiochus. The officers talked to him in the
same way; he resolutely answered, “My mind is
the same as my brothers,” and suffered death.
The officers then offered to make the youngest
brother governor of the state if he would re-
cant, but he also refused, and suffered death in
the same manner. The mother, refusing, suf-
fered death in like manner."
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					SARAH ROBERTS.
	Goshen, Utah Co.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM ARIZONA.

					ZENOS, Nov. 24th, 1887.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—Letters are the links that
bind us to our old homes, friends and associa-
tions; the Carrier doves bearing the messages
from heart to heart. Would it not be terrible
if we could not write to our absent ones, and
yet how many fail to improve this great privi-
lege. I have a few spare moments so will send
a few lines of remembrance to my friends afar,
who have not forgotton me:
	We have moved our "camp" again (it seems
to me that all Israel is on the "tented field"
just now), this only makes nine times that I
have changed my abiding place since I came
here. We take some comfort in the thought
that we cannot be numbered among those who
are “at ease in Zion,” and hope we may escape
the judgments pronounced in the Bible upon
that people.
	We are located at present near a very large
ruin, one of those monuments of a departed
race, that are to be found everywhere in this
land. Several skeletons. have been dug up on
it near the top, and but little work has been
done on it as yet. This place is improving
slowly, but I think steadily; it takes hard work,


time, patience and perseverance, with the bless-
ing of God, to redeem the waste places of Zion
and make the desert blossom as the rose.” 
	I have taken much pleasure in the Associa-
tions of the Young Ladies and Primaries; feel
quite proud of the children; as a rule they are
ready and willing to respond to every call
made upon them, and always accomplish what
they undertake. They had a very pleasant en-
tertainment on the 2nd of this month, the pro-
ceeds to be used towards building a house to
meet in; for notwithstanding the mighty en-
deavors of our enemies to the contrary, the cry
of Zion still goes on:
		"Give us room, that we may dwell."
	Short speeches and short letters are generally
most appreciated, so I will close this for the
present, with love and best wishes to all.
                                     Sincerely,
                                                                S. E. R.


AUNT JERUSHA ON COOK BOOKS.

	Wall, I declar, if it aint the funniest sight
I've saw for a long time to see them smart
young misses now-a-days, with their hair all
fizzle fuz, and great aprons that cover the whole
body, going inter the kitchen with a big book,
and some scales and a goodness knows what, to
mus up all the kitchen tables and pans and
spoons for some one else ter wash, and showin'
off their interlectual cooking. When I wuz in
town visitin a spell, Maria Ann, John's cousin,
tho’ thar they don't call her such, but only
Mareah, though it’s her own christin name, and
I can't see but what's good enuf when we're
young, ought ter be good enuf when we're on
the other side of fifty to go by. Wall, as I
wus sayin, when I was thar visitin her girls 
said, "Mama, whare's the cook book? I guess
I'll make Aunt Jerusha some cookies to take
home with her fur lunch.” For the land sakes,
says I, ef you’r goin ter the kitchen, Sarah
(for thet wuz the oldest girl's name, though
they call her Sadie in town), do leave your
larnin in the library, for, to tell the truth, I'm
thet narvous with your everlastin readin since
I cum, thet I don't know what to do. "But,
Aunt, this cook book, you see, tells us how to
make things, and we do as it says, and our
cakes and pies are always just right." You
don't say so; wall, I declar, if things aint come
to a purty pass, when you have to have books
for your hired girls, and can't put a pie or
nuthin in the oven without first lookin in a
book to see ef it's right; and who wrote it? I
bet ten cents it wuz a man, thet don't know no
more about cookin than a rooster. Go ter your
mother, girls, and what you don't know about
cookin she can tell yer, for she war a mighty
fine cook afore she cum here ter live, and
used ter put a dinner on the table fit fur a king,
and her mother told her how ter do it without
no books nor larnin of that sort. "But here,
Aunt, we have so many ideas, and new ones,
too; always looking after new ones" Wall, old
things are good enuff fur me so long as they
don't get musty, and I guess they can't say
much more about good bread and dumplins
and apple sars and vegetables and Thanksgivin
turkey and sech, then me and your mother
knew long afore yer wuz born, ken they now?
but let's see the thing, and find out what it does
do.
	I put on my specs and opened the book, al-
most a hatin to tech it; I believe I'd as soon, or
sooner, read a novel as that book that comes
inter houses and tells girls ther mothers don't
know nuthin, and ef they must be wives why
they must have a cookin book. Wall, I opened
it, and the first thing I spied wuz four long
pages about taters, I jest thought I’d bust as I
read about Saratoga taters, as ef every one
didn't know Utah taters wuz the best to be had;
and then it said cut em thin, put em in wate

[Column 2]
over night, changin the water three or four
times (who on arth, after a honest day's work,
wants ter be gettin up three or four times in
the night to change the water on a half dozen
taters), fry in hot greese, and take out with a
spoon; who'd think of stickin their fingers inter
hot greese to pick out a little chain of tater.
Wall, I says, girls, you jest pare your taters
thin, put em in a kittle of boilin water, with
some salt, and cook em till a fork will run in
easy, then pour off the water, and when they're
good and dry mash em right good, and pour in
a little cream and stir it around, or, if you
can't get cream take some milk, and butter and
pepper and salt, and fix em nice in a dish, and
put two or three nice pieces of butter on top,
and ef them taters aint as good as any in a
cookin book then my name aint Aunt
Jerusha.
	Wall I’d liked to kep that book longer, fur
it wuz astonishin what lots of things it did say,
but the girls laughed at me and tuk it off ter
the kitchen to cook sunthin fur me. It's jest
astonishin how good them girls wuz when I
said I wuz goin home; I declar ter goodness
there wuzn't a single thing they didn't do ter
help me off, and 1 wuz waited on so much that
I wuz almost off afore I knew it, and home a
hull week afore I wuz looked fur. 	
	I've sent to town fur a book, jest ter see
what fool things it does say, and maybe you'll
hear how ter make some more good things
someday, fur them cookies they made there
wusn't much to em, though they wusn't bad
after all.


R. K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORGE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And and elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
