VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1888.	NO. 16.


A LEGACY.

BY JOHN G. WHITIER.

		Friend of my many years!
When the great silence falls, at last, on me,
Let me not leave to pain and sadden thee
		A memory of tears.

		But pleasant thoughts alone
Of one who was thy friendship's honored guest,
And drank the wine of consolation pressed
		From sorrows of thy own.

		I leave with thee a sense
Of hands upheld and trials rendered less—
The unselfish joy which is to helpfulness
		Its own great recompense;

		The knowledge that from thine,
As from the garments of the Master, stole
Calmness and strength, the virtue which makes whole
		And heals without a sign;

		Yea more the assurance strong
That love, which fails of perfect utterance here
Lives on to fill the heavenly atmosphere
		With its immortal song.

	Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.


"THE HEART KNOWETH ITS OWN
			BITTERNESS."
	BY WM. H. S. ATKINSON.
			(Proverbs xiv. 10.)
Aye, the heart knoweth—every pang of sadness,
	Each weight of anguish that we have to bear;
Knoweth the tear which drowns the smile of gladness,
	The crushing sorrow and the anxious care.

Knoweth the heavy burdens that beset us,
	The hopes that back return with crushing force,
The disappointments keen that daily fret us,
	Each sense of shame and feeling of remorse.

Knoweth full well the aching desolation,
	Which comes to us when last good-byes are said,
The failure of each tendered consolation
	To soothe us, as we kneel beside our dead.

Knoweth what hurts us more than death or sorrow,
	The wounded pride which comes with sore defeat,
The yearnings weak that die with each to-morrow,
	The rude awakenings from illusions sweet.

Aye, the heart knoweth—knoweth and remembers,
	As loves of other days become outgrown,
As we stand o'er old friendship's whitening embers—
	Each heart must bear its bitterness alone.


[Column 1]
	TRUE WOMEN.
	Careful, considerate girls are likely to become
prudent and wise women.  I do not mean to
say that girls who are giddy, perhaps wayward,
and possibly vain and selfish, may not, in after
life, settle down and make good, conscientious
wives and mothers; but I do say, that with such
there are great risks to run, and that the earlier
in life they begin to lay aside their follies, the
better chance there is for their becoming true
women.
	How necessary it really is, that while girls
are very young, they learn to be true in all
things!  To be true we must be honest in all
respects.  There is nothing to choose between
false words and false actions.  A deceitful heart
will manifest itself both by insincere utterances
of the tongue and hypocritical performances.

[Column 2]
	The heart, then, is the object to be carefully
guarded, put through a thorough self examina-
tion, and if found to be not quite true in any
wise, to be made so, and kept so.  It is impossi-
ble for finite beings to estimate the real worth
of a true heart.  All the accomplishments
which belong to a genteel education, all the
scholastic learning of which it is possible for
mortals to possess themselves, even the gifts of 
mental superiority, which belong to genius, are
of small value if not coupled with true-hearted-
ness.
	There is a power in the consciousness of being
true, which those wanting it do not understand,
a moral strength, a fortitude which enables its
possessor to endure many things which, without
it, were unendurable, and to find joy in that
which else were pain.
	No woman who possesses this strength of 
character can become entirely absorbed in her
own personal interests; she must be thinking
and working for the welfare of others, and the 
more she thinks, and the more she exerts her-
self in that direction, the greater is her power
to lay aside that selfishness, which is natural to
humanity, and the truer she becomes.
	No woman can be really true who is afraid
of meeting with ridicule.  There are always 
those who are ready to laugh down the honest
convictions of the timid and over sensitive.
But a true independence of mind enables a 
woman, as well as a man, to differ, without fear,
from the times in which she lives, if she thinks
it right to do so.  Not insolently, but with
modest earnestness, to make a point of morals
and what she considers good sense, rather than
to be carried helplessly along upon the cruel,
uncertain and unsatisfactory breeze of fashion.
A woman who is thus true to her convictions,
will gain and maintain, in course of time, the
respect and confidence of the world about her;
and what is even more, the approval of her
own conscience.
	Will the gentlemen of her acquaintance
really think as much of her, if she shows signs
in any way, of having ideas and opinions of
her own, as they would do if she simply fol-
lowed after the suggestions and fancies of 
others?  Those whose respect is worth her seek-
ing or caring for will; and for the rest, she has
no need to trouble.
	Let me give a sentence here from one of the
most intelligent and conscientious of modern
writers, the Rev. Joseph A. Seiss.  He says:
	“There is a trueness, a readiness, a self-com-
mand and a fertility of resources in a genuine
woman, of which all kings and all men do
well to avail themselves, whether in shadow or
in sunshine. *   *   *  If woman is apt to be
agitated with trifles, yet when some great crisis
comes she has more calm magnanimity than a
thousand lords—more sense and self-possession
than they all.  From her finer strung nature,
she may feel it the more afterward and suffer
the more severely from the rebound, but while
the dread crisis is upon her, the other sex sinks
greatly by comparison.”
	This sentiment, remember, is a man’s opinion
of a genuine woman.  There are many to whom
such an eulogy could not be correctly applied,
many miserable “make-believes” among women
as well as among men.  But of such we are
not now treating.  With all true women, I be-
lieve there is a certain reverence for the good
opinion of good men.  And any of these, unto
whose notice the above quotation may come,
must feel that Joseph A. Seiss is deserving of

[Column 3]
their honest thanks, for the high compliment
he has paid them.
	Let us hope that the time is not far distant
when the entire sisterhood among the Latter-
day Saints will be worthy of and also awarded,
the general admiration and appreciation of
their fathers, brothers, husbands, sons and
friends; but above all, the loving approbation
of the Eternal Father. 
	L.G.R.


THE SWEDISH NIGHTINGALE.
	JENNY LIND.
The renowned northern vocalist, who so 
charmed the ears and thrilled the hearts not 
only of the votaries of the muse and her sister-
hood of song, but to all civilized nations, has 
recently passed away. With the mere mention
of her name—Jenny Lind— how the memory 
is stirred and seemingly reverberates with the 
sweet echoes of her voice and her wonderful 
achievements in the realm of song. Once to 
have heard her rich melodies, her bird-like 
notes and soft cadences, was a treasure of 
memory, never to be forgotten; for even after 
the long interval of time that has elapsed since
she sang to us, the delicious music still seems to 
vibrate on the ear.   *   *   *   *
	Although so wonderfully gifted, she was yet
most simple, unpretending and modest; full of
impulse and dramatic power, she was yet en-
tirely free from conventionalism.
Born at Stockholm Oct. 6, 1821, of parents
in the humbler walks of life, she may be said 
to have inherited a fortune in herself, for she
was almost cradled in song. From a very 
early age she evinced a love for music, and the 
rare beauty of her voice was remarkable, as 
well as her aptness in reading and retaining 
any musical composition.
	The power and pathos of her voice when she 
was yet very small, and only nine years of age,
was noticed by an actress, through whose kind 
offices Jenny was admitted into the Conserva-
tory of Scockholm, where she received lessons 
from Croelius and Berg, two eminent instructors.
Her ambition, which was to excel, was en-
couraged by her teachers. Her progress was 
wonderful, and it was greatly promoted after 
she had left the conservatory, by her residence 
with the family of the popular Swedish com-
poser, Adolph Frederick Lindbad.
	When ten years old, she made her first ap-
pearance on the stage as one of the geuii in 
Mozart's “Il Flauto Magico.” 
	Her debut as an artist took place in Stock-
holm in 1838, when she sang Agatha in “Der
Freischtuz” Previous to that she had passed 
through a most trying experience. At the age 
of twelve she lost the upper register of her 
voice, and for four years suffered the greatest 
anxiety lest her future should prove to be 
blighted. During those four years she was 
taught by Henry Berg, a man of sensitive 
nature and a musician of more than ordinary
ability. After two years under his guidance
she could once more reach the upper B natural 
without undue effort. Her success in Agatha 
was such that she subsequently sang the princi-
ple role in “Euryanthe,” Alice in “Robert le
Diable,” and Julia in Spontini's “La Vestale,”
all with blilliant success. She was the life of
the Royal Theatre until 1841, when she went 
to Paris to improve her style of singing. In 
Paris she studied nine months under Manuel


Garcia. The development of her voice,
naturally hard and inflexible, was mainly due
however, to her own indomitable energy and to
the high ideal which she kept constantly before
herself. Even in her childhood the tinge of 
melancholy, natural to most Swedes, gave to
her singing a character which frequently
brought tears to the eyes of her hearers. Meyer-
beer was in Paris while she was pursuing her
studies, and when he heard her he predicted a
brilliant future for the young artist. His in-
troduction led to her having, in 1842, a hearing
at the Opera, which was attended by Haydn,
Vasseur, Rossini and other prominent musicians
of the day. The Director of the Opera did
not go to hear her through the influence, it is
said, of Mlle. Stoltz, the reigning prima
donna.
	Jenny Lind did not secure an engagement at
the Opera, and she is said to have determined
never to sing in Paris. Through Meyerbeer’s in-
fluence she went to Berlin in 1844 and began 
the study of German. In September of that
year she went to Stockholm to take part in
the fetes attending the crowning of King Os-
car, but in October she returned to Berlin,
where, again through the influence of Meyer-
beer, who had written for her the leading role
in his “Feldlager in Schlesien,” better known
as “L’Etoile du Nord,” she obtained an en-
gagement at the Opera. Her first appearance
took place on Dec. 15, when she sang “Norma”
and was received with great enthusiasm. After-
ward she sang with equal success her new role
in the Meyerbeer opera.
	In the following April she sang in Hamburg,
Cologne and Coblentz After making this
tour she returned to Stockholm by way of
Copenhagen, once more achieving a triumphant
success. In 1845 she made the acquaintance
of Mendelssohn, and under his direction she
appeared at the Gewandhaus concerts in
Leipsic on Dec. 6. She has said that Mendels-
sohn wrote for her the soprano part in his
“Elijah,” and that he had other things in view
for her which were prevented by his early
death. While she was in Berlin she met Mos-
cheles, who, on Jan. 10, 1845, wrote thus of
her performance in “L’Etoile du Nord:” “Jenny
Lind has fairly enchanted me; she is unique in 
her way, and her song, with two concertante
flutes, is perhaps the most incredible feat in
the way of bravura singing that can possibly
be heard.”
	In 1850 she made an engagement with P.
T. Barnum, who brought her to the United
States, where, at Castle Gardens, New York,
she commenced a series of concerts, the receipts
for the tour being $610,000, and her share be-
ing $302,000. On Feb. 5, 1852, she married
Otto Goldschmidt, in Boston, who accompanied
her as pianist. After a series of triumphs in
England she and her husband became lead-
ing professors at the Rhenish Academy of
Music.
	At one of her concerts at Castle Garden, an in-
teresting incident occured, during the perform-
ances. Jenny Lind, as usual, was encored, and
seeing John Howard Payne in one of the stage
boxes, she sang “Home, Sweet Home,” with such
wonderful effect and pathos, that the entire 
audience rose up, in testimony of their regard
for both writer and singer,
	During her stay in this country Jenny Lind
gave away about $90,000 in charities. This 
city was music mad in 1851, and in 1852 with 
her and Katherine Hayes and Alboni, all of
whom gave concerts at Tripler Hall.
	On her reutrn to Europe, Mme. Jenny Lind-
Goldschmidt, as she was now called, traveled
through Holland and again visited Germany.
In 1856 she returned to England, which she
henceforth made her home. Until recent years
she appeared there frequently in concert and
oratorio. She sang in Exeter Hall, London,
in the “Creation,” Dec. 10, 1855, on Dec. 17
in the “Elijah,” and on Dec. 24 in the “Mes-

[Column 2]
siah.” On Nov. 17, 1869, she sang in Exeter
Hall, in her husband’s oratorio, “Ruth,” which
was then first heard in London. She said once
that her native land had little charm for her,
because it was never kind to her till the days 
of her prosperity. But that she had a warm
spot for it in her heart is attested by the fact
that she devoted the whole of her American
earnings to founding and endowing art scholar-
ships and other charities in Sweden. To Liver-
pool she gave a hospital, and she added a wing
to one in London. Among other things she
founded a scholarship in memory of her friend
Mendelssohn, and the first scholar elected to it
was Sir Arthur Sullivan.
	During her visit to Bath, England, she hap-
pened to be walking with a friend in front of
some almshouses, into one of which she entered
ostensibly to rest herself but in reality to find
some excuse for doing an act of charity. An
old woman, like her neighbors, soon began to
refer to the arrival in their city of Jenny Lind,
and the pleasure the Theatre-goers were hav-
ing in hearing her sing. “For myself,” said
the old woman, “I have lived a long time in
the world and desire nothing before I die but
to hear her myself.” “Would it make you
happy?” was the response. “Ay, that it
would,” said the old woman,“but I shall never
hear her, since I cannot leave this place.”
“Don’t be so sure of that," said the good-natured
Jenny, “sit down, my friend,and listen;” when
forthwith the vocalist sang to her one of her
richest songs, and taking leave said: “Now you
have heard Jenny Lind.”
	The daily life of Jenny Lind in London was
extremely simple. Every morning, at 7:30
o’clock there were family prayers. At these
not only her husband, Mr. Goldschmidt, and
her three children, but the servants, assisted.
When breakfast was over she habitually retired
to her room on the second floor, and seated at
her writing-desk, opened and answered her
numerous letters. Her room which looked out
on a beautiful garden, was simply furnished.
The most notable piece of furniture in it was
a large screen, which had, pasted over its en-
tire surface, newspaper clippings from all parts
of the world eulogistic of the great singer.
Next to Jenny Lind’s room connected by a
door covered with portieres, was the room of
her husband. In it stood a grand piano, and
often Mr. Goldschmidt played on this instru-
ment at night until his wife, who was nervous
at times, was, by his performance, lulled to
sleep. The family sat down to lunch at 1
o’clock. Jenny Lind was a moderate eater
and fond of simple cuisine. In the afternoon
she took a walk when the weather was fine, and
purse in hand, distributed alms to the poor
whom she met. When she came home she
taught her select circle of pupils, and at
7 o’clock she sat down to dinner. She never
went to theatres, balls, or operas. She went to
hear Patti sing once, but she left the hall be-
fore the performance was over, saying that
Patti could act but she couldn’t sing. She
was rather sensitive on the subject of her
rivals. She attended not long since a garden
party, given by the Lady Burdette-Coutts. In
the course of conversation a gentleman speaking
of Christine Nilsson, called her the “Swedish
Nightingale.” Instantly there sprang up from
a seat close by, an aged, thin woman, who
pointed her finger at the speaker, and ex-
claimed in a voice quivering with rage: “You
are wrong, sir, you are grossly wrong; I am the
‘Swedish Nightingale.’ I am Jenny Lind!”
	She liked to read aloud in the evening, or
she chatted about her triumphs to her favorite
pupils. Though she possessed magnificent
jewels she never wore them. She was exceed-
ingly fond of her husband, though they had
disagreements at times; and she always said
that it was owing to Mr. Goldschmidt’s man-
agement that she was in such easy financial
circumstances. She brought up her children

[Column 3]
well. Her son Walter is a lawyer; her son
Ernest is an officer in the army; her daughter
Jennie was married to Mr. J. H. Maude.
She spent her summers partly at Wiesbaden
and partly in Kainzenbad. At Weisbaden,
whither she went to take the baths for her
rheumatism, she lived at her own villa.
	Not merely in the simple ballad or passion-
ate lyric has she achieved her highest triumph.
It was in religious music that the quality of
her voice and soul found fullest development.
It was in sacred music that her round notes
swelled into their richest harmony; and she
seemed among her kindred when she spoke a
holy mission—“I know that my Redeemer liv-
eth, and that in my flesh I shall see God." The
rapture of conviction seemed in every syllable
of her utterance. Such music not only en-
riches the language with which it is immediate-
ly linked, but summons into presence from ob-
scure haunts of the memory all the poetry of
thought that has ever entered it.
	She was one of those lovely gifted spirits,
whom a time of peace sends forth to humanize
the world and to link  the nations together.
Sweden, has done much in this respect. In its
darker times, even, it had its true hero—Gus-
tavus Adophus; in its last age, its benignant
Linnaeus, with his child-like heart and his love
of flowers, as well as his love of nature; in our
own day it gives us Frederika Bremer and
Jenny Lind—women who, in their own great
and noble powers, have no superiors in the
world.—Woman.
	S. FREDERICKS.


122	 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Science removes ignorance but it does not
correct ill nature.
	Falsehood may have its hour, but it has no
future.
	A rich man without liberality, is like a tree
without fruit.
	Humility kneels in the dust but gazes on
the skies.—Archer Butler.
	The blue of heaven is larger than the cloud.
—E. B. Browning.
	Provided you do not tire of seeking, you
will find what you seek at last.
	Though we have a thousand friends, still we 
lack; but one enemy is too much for us.
	There is a pedigree of the body and a pedi-
gree of the mind,—Wendell Phillips.
	We speak of educating our children; do we
know that our children also educate us?—Mrs.
Sigourney.
	There is danger in keeping silent when we
should speak, but more in speaking when we
should hold our tongues.
	“My little son, you should not say your
prayer so hurriedly, but take time to think.”
“Why mother, it isn't me that has to think, it’s 
Claire; I can say my prayer without thinking.”


At the last meeting of the Hartford (Ct.)
Equal Rights Club, Mrs. S. G. Young read a 
letter from U.S. Senator Palmer, in which he 
said:
	“The enfranchisement of women, in my 
opinion, is not far off. Even conservative papers
concede that. Their right to vote should 
place the family as the foundation of the State.
The floating vote of nonstake-holders in soci-
ety would be neutralized.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TWO CITIES.

Side by side rise the two great cities,
	Afar on the traveler’s sight;
One, black with the dust of labor,
	One, solemnly still and white.
Apart, and yet together,
	They are reached in a dying breath,
But a river flows between them,
	And the river’s name is—death.

Apart, and yet together,
	Together and yet apart,
As the child may die at midnight
	On the mother’s living heart.
So close come the two great cities,
	With only the river between;
And the grass in the one is trampled,
	But the grass in the other is green.

The hills with uncovered foreheads,
	Like the disciples meet,
While ever the flowing water
	Is washing their hallowed feet.
And out on the glassy ocean,
	The sails in the golden gloom
Seem to me but moving shadows
	Of the white enmarbled tomb.

Anon, from the hut and the palace.
	Anon, from early till late,
They come, rich and poor together,
	Asking alms at thy beautiful gate.
And never had life a guerdon
	So welcome to all to give,
In the land where the living are dying,
	As the land where the dead may live.

O silent city of refuge
	On the way to the city o’erhead!
The gleam of thy marble milestones
	Tells the distance we are from the dead.
Full of feet, but a city untrodden,
	Full of hands, but a city unbuilt,
Full of strangers who know not even
	That their life-cup lies there spilt.

They know not the tomb from the palace,
	They dream not they ever have died:
God be thanked they never will know it
	Till they live on the other side!
From the doors that death shut coldly
	On the face of their last lone woe:
They came to thy glades for shelter
	Who had nowhere else to go.
	REV. S. MILLER HAGERMAN.


[Column 1]	
NEW YEAR’S DAY.
	This is New Year’s Day, looked upon by the
youth only as a holiday, a time of merry mak-
ing; but to those of us who are older, more
serious thoughts will come at this time.
	Another year has been numbered among the
things of the past and another page of our
life’s history has been turned over. How many
are wondering to-day what of weal and woe
this coming year will come to them? This is
something which no man knoweth; the future,
so far as details are concerned, is a sealed
book to us; and it is well that it is so. “Suffi-
cient unto the day is the evil thereof.” And
if there be bitterness and woe, disappointment
and sorrow in store for us, it is a merciful
Providence which hides it from our view. And
if it be joy and pleasure, more keen will be
our appreciation and enjoyment of it, that we
knew it not before hand. We should strive at
all times to cultivate a contented spirit, and
feel that whatever besets us it is all for the
best.
	Though we cannot peer into the future, we
are not denied the pleasure (a melancholy one
though it may be), of retrospection. Many of
our people have had a pitiful experience, caused
by religious persecution, even in the last few
years. Parents and children, husbands and
wives are separated, families broken up, com-
fortable homes have been abandoned, and great

[Column 2]
sacrifices been made; many are in exile, others 
in prison. Perhaps my experience has been
similar to that of other of my sisters, and this
is the first New Year's Day that our family 
has been privileged to enjoy together for four 
years, and this not under our own government.
I am reminded of the words of an Irish song:
	“Must we ask a mother’s welcome
	Of a strange, but happier land?”
though the comparison may not be very appro-
priate. Three years ago some of us were
making a toilsome journey with our little ones,
under most uncomfortable circumstances, travel-
ing through mud and snow, passing over a
bleak mountain road, on the first day of the
year, saved from perishing with cold only by a
kind Providence. Two years ago surrounded
by parents and friends, but far, far away from
my husband, our family widely scattered, and
feeling the greatest anxiety for the welfare of
the absent ones. One year ago, oh, how vividly
that comes to my mind, the mingled joy and
sorrow—sorrow at parting with dear aged
parents, with no hope of seeing them again in
this life, with kind brothers and sisters, and joy
in the sweet anticipation of soon meeting again
with the one dearer than all others on earth,
after a cruel separation of nearly two years.
The past year has indeed been fraught with
many changes and new experiences to me as to
many of my sisters.
	Life seems to be made up of meetings and
partings, disappointments and pleasure, which
are sometimes strangely mixed and blended.
Undertaking a railroad journey of hundreds
of miles, with a family of little ones, but feel-
ing a hundred fold repaid for all the care and
anxiety consequent thereto, by the reward re-
ward received, the privilege of once again asso-
ciating with my husband and our family. But
my happiness was too great to last unalloyed
by sorrow. Death claimed for his own one of
my loved ones, leaving a void which cannot be
filled; a mother’s heart cannot but yearn for
the dear one who has slipped away, and her
thoughts often wander to the little mound
which covers the mortal remains, although we
know it is foolish and wrong to grieve; we
know not the temptations and snares which
might have beset his path, the dangers which
he has escaped, and should feel to acknowledge
the hand of God in affliction as well as in
prosperity, for “the Lord giveth and the Lord
taketh away,” and He doeth all things well.”
	KATE.
	Jan. 1, 1887.


﻿ITEMS OF EXPERIENCE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	As I do not wish to be forgotten entirely by
the sisters in Zion, I thought that a few inci-
dents of my experience would not be uninterest-
ing to the readers of the EXPONENT:
	I left the City of the Saints about a year
ago, arriving in Ogden at ten o’clock the same
morning. We immediately proceeded on our
journey, arriving at Green River about mid-
night, where we were detained several hours
waiting for the westward bound Express to
pass. In due time we arrived at Cheyenne,
where we changed cars and continued on our
journey, arriving in Denver about six o’clock
Wednesday evening. We remained here some
four hours, which gave me a good opportunity
to view the city. The depot here entirely
eclipses our modest little one in Salt Lake City;
there are many magnificent buildings, and the
city presents a scene of bustle and thrift. The
cry, “All aboard,” greeted my ears as I arrived
at the depot, and in less time than it takes to
tell we are on our way again, speeding through
the darkness.
	The next place of interest was Kansas City,


and as I had heard before leaving that this
was once the home of some of our older brethren,
I wondered, while gazing at the palatial resi-
dences, when the time would come when the
Saints should be permitted to dwell in peace.
Resuming our journey once more, we arrived
at St. Louis next—all but the Saint part—
the streets are narrow, the houses high, smoky
and dirty, and, to my mind, much inferior to
the cities previously mentioned. Our next
stopping place was Cincinnati; being dark and
raining very heavily, I had no opportunity of
seeing this city. After some delay, we were
again on our way, arriving in the City of New
York Sunday, somewhat fatigued, and put up
at Smith and McNell’s Hotel in Greenwick St.
I found this hotel all that any one could desire,
	elegance, comfort and economy. When
rested I took a stroll through this far-famed
city of extreme wealth and squalid wretched-
ness, and said to myself, how is it our Christian
senators concern themselves so much about the
morals of the “Mormon” people, when they
could find so much wider scope, with much
more gratifying results for their philanthropy
nearer home?
	Hoping this may escape the waste basket, to
all I wish a happy New Year.
								IRENE


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Iowa has 18,748 women teachers in her
schools.

	Twenty-four young women have just
graduated from Bellevue Training School for
nurses. 

	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland is writing a
life of St. Augustine. She expects to have a
a volume of poems ready for publication in the
spring.

	The beautiful town that Frances Willard
makes the scene of her story, “Gladys and Her
Trycycle,” is a real place,—Evanstown, Ill.,—
where Miss Willard has lived for thirty years.
The characters only are imaginary.

	Mme. Furtado-Heine, who was recently
decorated with the Cross of the Legion of
Honor for her charitable acts, has just founded
Guerande, on the French seacoast, a maritime
hospital for scrofulous children.

	Queen Victoria is mourning the death of
her old nurse, Miss Skerrett, who recently
passed away at the mature age of 94. Miss
Skerritt had seen service under Queens Char-
lotte and Adelaide, and had nursed Queen
Victoria, the Prince of Wales and other royal
children.

	Mrs. M. P. Lemon, president of the Newton
County (Mo.) W. C. T. U., and mother-in-law
of Col. Sobieski, is over eighty years of age;
yet, during the late local option contest, she
canvased the whole county, speaking in every
township, and carried the county for prohibi-
tion.

	Dover, N.H., Jan. 17.—Yesterday there was
a surprise at the annual meeting of the stock-
holders of the Dover Street R. R. Co. Mrs.
Mary E. G. H. Dow, a wealthy resident and
leading advocate of woman’s rights, was elected
treasurer. She is the first woman ever chosen
to fill such a posstion.

	Miss Jane Gibson, of Glasgow, who has just
died at the age of one hundred and two years,
was the founder of the “John Gibson Bursar-
ies” in Glasgow University. She moved in the
brilliant Edinburgh literary society of the
Georgian period, and was able, until the last
few days, to take a lively interest in public and
literary affairs.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		-		Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,		-			JANUARY 15, 1888.


[column 1]

	INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.

	An International Council of Women is to be
held this year at the Nation's Capital. It will be
an event of great moment to women universally,
something "new under the sun," and will, without
doubt, seriously effect the question of woman's
equality before the law, and have a tendency to
impress strongly upon this nation and other
nations the intense earnestness women of intellect,
refinement and culture are giving to this compara-
tively new phase of woman as a citizen of the
world. It will give emphasis to the measures al-
ready advocated with such untiring energy and
unflinching integrity, by advanced thinkers, and
will also have a tendency to evolve other methods
of enterprise and achievement which will more
effectually lift the women of all nations into greater
light, and bring them up to that relative position
in the brotherhood of the world, that even-handed
justice demands for them, and that the intuition
and prophetic sense of the best and most mature
thinkers in the great battle of woman's rights,
have anticipated during the last forty years.
	It seems marvelous, when one considers the
condition of the women of our own nation even,
that forty years of effort should have wrought
such a wondrous change, as to admit of a mam-
moth jubilee such as this would be, though as yet
it can scarcely be called by so significant a 
term.
	In union there is strength, is often quoted, and
when the strongest and ablest women of several
nations combine to promote a great cause, their
united faith and power "will remove mountains,"
so to speak. The notices given through the press
of this International Council are indicative of the
increased influence of women in the various de-
partments of life. There are no slurs on her
weakness, no ridicule of her mental powers, but
the utmost respect and deference characterizes all
newspaper articles on the subject, that have come
under our notice.
	Forty years ago, in 1848, the first Woman's Con-
vention was held at Seneca Falls, New York. The
two women most prominent in calling it were
Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Mrs.
Stanton is still living and holds the office 
of President of the National Woman's Suff-
rage Association, under whose auspices this 
great call is made. That Convention held forty
years ago was the first public demand for 
equal educational, industrial, professional and
political rights for women ever made. Since
that time what vast progress and advance-
ment women have made, step by step, not only in
our own land, but in lands afar, under govern-
ments hostile to all measures for woman's higher
education and progression, in all her relations to
the home, or the state.
	This great change in public opinion, and in the
various conditions of woman as a helper and

[column 2]

worker are due mainly to the active forcos brought
to bear upon the question of woman's place, in
the first instances by the notable women of this
century who took part in that memorable conven-
tion, and other faithful diligent and fearless work-
ers, who have since been added to their ranks.
They have broken down the iron gates that barred
women out from the field of action where they
might receive the full growth of stature, and de-
velopment of talent, and having once opened
these iron-barred gates, hung upon the hinges
of ignorance and sealed so firmly by tradition,
the great multitude of women that have flocked in
thither have prevented their being closed again,
and are now storming the formidable fortress with-
in so effectually that it must soon yield peacable
possession to these helpers in the world's great
work, and side by side, and shoulder to shoulder,
brother and sister, man and woman will advocate
the triumph of right, in the momentous questions
that are now agitating the world of thought. 
	It may take forty years more, but we doubt it,
perchance not more than ten, when there may be
a real jubilee celebrated over the victory gained
in woman's cause. Woman's love for the true,
the noble, the pure and the infinite will be a po-
tent power in revolutionizing governments
when she is allowed to be the political equal of
man. Until woman is untrammeled in this re-
spect, she cannot possibly wield the same influence 
in public affairs.
	That this Herculean effort in behalf of all
women may be attended with the best results, and
that from this may emanate such wisdom and
power, as shall move the leaders in governments,
and the people, to a recognition of the difficulties
women so keenly feel, and the environments which
surround them now, that a revolution may soon
commence which shall be still more far-reaching
and effective in its methods than in the past, and 
ere long woman may stand in her beauty andmajes-
ty a free and independent being as she came upon
this earth, willing and ready to share the respon-
sibilities of earth-life, and never shrinking from
its duties and obligations even though fraught
with pain and sorrow. 
	The International Council of Women will be
held in Albaugh's Opera House in Washington,
D. C., commencing March 25, 1888, and will con-
tinue eight days. There will be sixteen public
sessions, giving ample opportunity for reporting
the various phases of woman's work during the 
last forty years. The call is made under the 
auspices of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, President;
Susan B. Anthony, First V. Pres.; Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Second V. Pres.; May Wright Sewall, Ch'm
Ex. Com.; Ellen H. Sheldon, Recording Sec'y;
Jane H. Spafford, Treasurer; Rachel G. Foster,
Cor. Sec'y.


[Column 1]
﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	SINCE the last issue of the paper the Legislature
of the Territory has assembled, organized and
commenced the important work of law-making
and so forth. As this is the first session since the
passage of the Edmunds-Tucker bill, its doings
will be severely scrutinized and commented upon
by those who are so anxious to abolish all govern-
ment by the people who have made the Territory,
and have taken care of its interests for forty years.
The Governor’s message to the Legislature has
been commented upon in another column by Aunt
Ruth, with whose views upon the subject we per-
fectly agree.	
	PRES. M. ISABELLA HORNE returned on Satur-
day evening, Jan. 14, from a visit of about three
months to relatives and friends in California and
Arizona. While in Arizona she attended several
meetings of the Relief Society and other Associa-

[Column 2]
tions, and gives a good report of the labors of the
sisters in that Territory. Pres. Horne, is much
pleased to be at home again, though she enjoyed
and appreciated her visit. We expect she will
furnish us with some incidents of her journey for
the paper, and we feel sure the sisters here and in
other parts of the Territory and elsewhere, will be
gratified with an account of her trip West and
South.
	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D., who has been
absent from home seven months, returned on the
14th inst., having traveled from Pueblo in company
with Bro. and Sister Horne. Dr. Shipp spent the
first three months of her absence in New York,
and the remainder of the time in Philadelphia; in
the latter place she devoted her time and attention
to gaining special knowledge in improved methods
of surgery and hospital work, for which she had
excellent opportunity. Previous to leaving the
Medical College in Philadelphia, she was invited
to speak to the ladies there upon the subject of
"Mormonism,” which invitation she accepted,
and spoke to a large and intelligent audience. We
feel sure Dr. Shipp would arouse the interest of
her hearers and allay prejudice, if any existed, as
she has a modest, unassuming manner, a sweet
and pleasing address, and a sincerity and earnest-
ness which must impress an audience favorably
at least. Dr. Shipp returned home feeling well
and strong in the faith of the Gospel, rejoicing in
having opportunities of bearing testimony to the
truth. For the present her office will be at her
residence, No. 34, 7th East St.
	WE ought to have acknowledged, ere this the
circulars of the Brigham Young Academy, giving
“an insight into its numerous departments,” from
the Utah Enquirer, Jan. 3, 1888. It contains much
correct information of the modus operandi of this
noble institution, which has already accomplished
so much for the benefit of the young people of
Zion. Its Theology is strictly in conformity with
the principles of the Latter-day Saints and the
general organization of the Church. The instruc-
tion upon theological subjects “are classified ac-
cording to the Catechism, Bible, Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants and Compendium. There
is a complete domestic organization, which is
highly spoken of by the students, and must be
very satisfactory to parents. There are Primary,
Preparatory and Intermediate departments for the
practical training of pupils in all branches, with a
view to a higher course. Some of the special
branches are Physical Geography, Civil Govern-
ment, U.S. and General History. Drawing, Ladies
Work, Penmanship, Music, Language Course,
Business Course, Commercial Arithmetic, Com-
mercial Law, Assaying, Quantitative Analysis,
Biology, Zoology and Descriptive Astronomy.
Great attention is given to the Normal Depart-
ment of this Academy. The normal students are
divided into a senior and junior class, the whole
course covering a period of two years. There
is excellent opportunity given to this class of
students. This school should receive the influence
and patronage of the Latter-day Saints, as also
all schools of this character, if it is expected that
the children of Zion will fulfill the expectations of
the parents in the development of all that is
noblest, best, highest, purest and truest in the
various departments of learning, and remain stead-
fast in the things of the kingdom of God. Prof.
Karl G. Maeser has been untiring and unflinching
in the work he undertook in the establishment of
this most excellent enterprise. That he has not
always had the support necessary to perfect and
perpetuate the institution according to his ideas
and plan, has been very apparent, but from this
time we sincerely hope and trust there may be a
renewal of interest and effort combined, that will
build up more completely and foster this educa-
tional institution for the accomplishment of its
noble mission and the good of all Israel.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		TIMELY SUGGESTIONS.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	Now that “merry Christmas” has come and gone
and the New Year festivities are over and we are
left to sober reflection again, I will pen a few of
my thoughts upon current subjects; which, if you
think them worth while, you are at liberty to pub
lish.
	Christmas! Is not this festival over done by us
in many instances? Are not our Christmas gifts 
too often appreciated in proportion to their mone-
tary value, rather than their being simply the
souvenirs of true friendship or the tokens of a 
loving affection? In short, have we not become
mercenary to some extent in this particular? Is
not friendship and affection often lost sight of in
the strong desire to outdo another in giving some-
thing of greater value materially, thus pandering
to a depraved feeling? Have we not in many in-
stances become so lavish in our gifts to our child-
ren upon these occasions as to make the simple
presents from the Sabbath School very little
appreciated? I merely ask these questions, leav-
ing every person to answer as they see fit.
	New Year’s! A legal holiday,made so by statu-
tory enactment. A time when work is thrown
aside and we measurably abandon ourselves to
pleasure and enjoyment. According to an old
time American custom this was a call day rather
than a visiting one, when the “Happy New Year”
wish was reciprocated by old and young. The
old fashioned customs of this day have of late
years been sadly abused, their original simplicity,
heartiness and purity giving way to extravagance
and foolish etiquette and sometimes debauch.
	I was more than pleased to learn, that in the
principal city of Utah, where the custom of keep-
ing open house on that day had been growing very 
strong of late years, necessitating a notice in the
local papers of the names of those ladies who
would receive callers at the various houses, that
this year the custom was "more honored in the
breach than the observance." And for one I will
say, on all future New Year days, "So mote it be."
Let each succeeding Christmas day come round to
us with its merry making, its family reunions,
pleasures and enjoyment undisturbed. Let the
Old Year die peacefully and the New Year come
in with its bright hopes and joyful anticipations
unmarred, but in the midst of it all let us be con-
sistent, prudent and wise.
	Dancing! An exercise both enjoyable, health-
giving and strictly moral, when indulged in, in
moderation, at proper hours and with proper peo-
ple; but quite the reverse when associated with
late hours, immoderate indulgence and question-
able companions. In regard to round dancing, let
me say that the persistent demand for it seems 
strange to me, when the universal verdict of the
best men, the brightest minds and the highest
physiological and scientific talent is altogether
against it; while the spirit and teachings of many
of the leaders of Israel have proclaimed against
it. True, it is allowed to a limited extent, yet this
cannot be quoted in any degree as a proof of the 
propriety of the practice. Israel anciently desired
many things which were not good, some of which
were allowed by the Almighty, but always under
protest, and universally brought disaster upon the
people. 
	Our young sisters, if they would take the matter
of round dancing in hand, could, I am sure, settle
the question most effectually by simply refusing to
indulge in this kind of a dance under any circum-
stances. The only question with me is, although
so easy of solution, will they do it? In regard to
the persons who have a right to go forth in the
dance, President Young said, thirty years ago,
"That those individuals only who had kept their
covenants, and served God faithfully, and who
had refrained from wrong doing, should join in the
dance.” He also said, further, “That such people

[column 2]

were as well prepared for a prayer meeting imme-
diately after dancing as after any other exercise
or labor, for their hearts were pure before the
Lord.”
	The Governor's Message! What an amount of
(shall I say wilful) ignorance he displayed when
he attributed all the past mobbing, driving, plun-
dering and murdering of the Mormon people to
the Mormons themselves, and justified not only
the past, but the present crusade also. According
to his reasoning, because wicked men have in
every age of righteousness, abused and foully
murdered good and holy men, therefore the act is
justified in all future time. Popular clamor found
abundant cause against Jesus, but were these
people justified? But such assertions as the 
Governor made upon this point in his message are
altogether unworthy an argument. I would like
to have him to listen to scores of living witnesses
of unimpeachable veracity, who could tell such
tales of atrocities committed against the Latter-
day Saints that would harrow up the souls of the
most skeptical and bitterly prejudiced, if they
would but give attention to such recitals. But,
unfortunately for us, only very few of our Govern-
ors, or other Federal appointees have been dis-
posed to award to us any consideration whatever,
and I suppose we must be content to bide our time
until eternal justice shall proclaim for the right.
	The Mormon people the aggressors indeed?
Never! any further than the advocacy of true and
scriptural doctrines make them so; and who dare
interpret such moral suasion as dangerous either
to property, liberty or life. The lands the Mor-
mons occupied in Ohio, Missouri and Illinois, and
from which they were so ruthlessly driven, were
purchased and honestly paid for by the Mormon
people, and the titles held by the present occupants
are in the main invalid, and in many instances
are stained with Mormon blood. I know whereof
I speak. Had we, like ancient Israel, retaliated
upon our enemies and imbued our hands in their
blood, no matter how much soever we might have
been justified, we would not have been permitted
to build Temples to the name of the Lord. This
one reason alone should suffice to prove false the
statement that the Mormons are a bloodthirsty
people, for they are essentially Temple builders.
	King David, who never went to battle without 
the word of the Lord, and was consequently
justified in slaying the enemies of the people of
God, was nevertheless not permitted to build the
Temple in Jerusalem because he was a man of
blood. Therefore, his son Solomon was chosen
for this especial work.
	Legislation! I suppose Mormon women will
have to bide their time and wait patiently for a 
change in the national sentiment and the gallantry
of the so called “Lords of Creation,” if they have 
any left, to restore to us the franchise of which 
we have been so shamefully robbed, and those
other privileges and rights which belong to all
woman-kind. Well, we are used to waiting and
can trust the future most implicitly. 
	Y. L. M. I. Associations! The very first princi-
ple taught in them was "retrenchment." Would 
it not be well to go back to first principles again,
and advocate them with such zeal as to make their
power felt from one end of Zion to the other, for
many of our indulgences in foolish, and I may 
say, in some instances, wicked fashions, are cer-
tainly abominable in the sight of the Lord.
	Sickness! especially among the young, foremost
of which may be mentioned that dreadful scourge
diphtheria, at whose approach the stoutest hearts
quail, and which has made many homes desolate
indeed. Can nothing be done to stay the ravages
of this dread disease and other kindred ones? All
reliable medical men throughout the civilized
world acknowledge their utter inability to success-
fully grapple with what is termed diphtheria proper.
Quacks and upstarts advertise various "infallibl

[column 3]

remedies” therefor, and thousands are deceived
in this way.
	In view of these facts, my sisters, would it not
be well to turn to the Lord and fast and pray and
humble ourselves before Him, having first ob-
served closely the “word of wisdom” according to
the spirit and meaning thereof, that confidence in
our petitions may not be lacking, because we have
neglected to observe that which God has given
with a promise that “the destroying angel shall
pass by us,” for he is surely abroad in the land.
And the inhabitants of Zion will only escape as
the laws of Zion and the counsels of God are ob-
served by them.
	Let us, then, nurse our sick with all that dili-
gence which love and a pure affection will prompt,
exerting our skill to the utmost, at the same time
exercising strong faith in God and in the ordi-
nances of His house. Let neighbor join with
neighbor, if needs be, until we prevail; or should
our loved ones die, they will die unto God as the
revelation declares. Truly these are trying times,
but to falter in no woman’s trait in general, al-
though through lack of wisdom she may sometimes
fail. My sisters, it will require all the natural for-
titude and courage we possess, coupled with all
which we can gather from above to enable us to
endure and successfully pass through the fiery
trials of these last days.
	That God may assist us is the prayer of 
					 AUNT RUTH.


﻿BISHOP WHITNEY'S LECTURE.

	The initial lecture of the Twentieth Ward series,
under the auspices of the Improvement Associa-
tion of that Ward, "Tongues of the Times, and
what they tell us," was delivered Sunday evening
Jan. 15 in the Ward meeting-house.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney was the speaker, and his
address was listened to throughout by a large, at-
tentive and delighted congregation.
	Bishop Whitney opened his address by saying
that some tongues were audible while others were
silent, and showed how they might be audible to
some whose spiritual conditions were suitable,
while silent to others who lacked the preparation
to receive their warning. Some seemed to think 
that the scriptures were not at all adapted to the
present generation. The speaker stated that a-
truth uttered in any age was a part of the Gospel,
and would be found to cohere with all other
truths uttered before or subsequent to that time.
And whosoever read the revelations of God
given through any of His Prophets, would, if
possessed of the Holy Spirit, realize that they
spoke to him or her with oracular power.
	The speaker then related incidents which oc-
curred after the martyrdom of the Prophet
Joseph. Some knew that Brigham Young
was appointed leader of Israel. They
say that the mantle of the Prophet had
fallen on him. To them he spoke with Joseph's
voice. While others were in the dark, and the
tongues of the time were silent to them. God
had always raised up men suited to their times
to lead His people. Referred in a graphic manner
to the labors of President Joseph Smith and
Brigham Young, and the cares which the Church
in its infancy and childhood had entailed upon
those leaders. That during the exile of President
Taylor and others the Saints had been required
to think for themselves and assume more of the
responsibility of their course; and he likened the
experience of the Church in this regard to the
growth of a man, who, having discarded the
swaddling clothes of infancy, and put away the
pinafore of his childhood, began to use his rea-
soning faculties, and to exercise his more manly
powers in the spheres of usefulness. It was a
slothful servant who had to be commanded in all
things. Counsel should always be sought when


necessary, but some things might be known with-
out being repeatedly told.
	Bishop Whitney then compared the warnings
and fate of Jerusalem with the testimony uttered
by the tongues of to-day. His allusion to the
prediction of Jesus concerning that rebellious city
and the terrible fulfillment fifty years later, was
extremely touching. He bore a strong testimony
of the truth of the Gospel, and the near approach
of the consummation of all things. He condemned
the class distinctions, which too much prevailed
among the Saints, and showed that the work of
preparation for Christ's coming, was to bring
down the haughty and lift the lowly and oppressed.
He said that there would be a grand leveling of
mountains and raising of valleys, literally and
figuratively, before that day, for God would make
the crooked straight, and the rough places plain,
and deceit and hypocrisy would be done away.
In speaking of amusements, he said that recrea-
tion was necessary, and pleasure to a certain
extent proper; but this did not justify the Saints
in making pleasure the pursuit of life, instead of
a seasoning, as if their existence here were a huge
joke. And in closing, he exhorted all to solemnify
their thoughts, and to prepare themselves for the
times which had been predicted, and for partici-
pancy in the great blessings to be enjoyed, when
the millennial reign of Christ should commence
and the earth should rest a thousand years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	OBEDIENCE TO GOD'S COMMAND.

	It requires obedience to God's commands to be
a Latter-day Saint.

	I was asked this question. "What does it re-
quire to be a Latter-day Saint?" It was by one
who was not of our faith and principles. This
question awakened in mind a multitude of thoughts
and reflections and bade me to commit some of
them to paper. I feel that I am inadequate to
answer this question in the fullest sense and
meaning of the term. It is necessary that we,
as well as those who are not of us, should under-
stand the key word to eternal salvation, and this
is to obey the Gospel requirements. Without
which, they cannot enter the progressive, and we
cannot go on in progression as Latter-day Saints.
Christ laid down the law of salvation and was
obedient to it Himself, and requires obedience
from all creatures. Some may ask, what is the
law? It is written in plain and simple language
by Mathew, Mark, Luke, John, Paul and all the
former day Saints who did not get into the King-
dom only by baptism by one having authority.
John the baptist was a chosen one of the Lord.
The angel, Gabriel, came direct from the presence
of the Lord and told Elizabeth or Zacharias that
she should have a son in her old age and he should
be filled with the Holy Ghost and his name should
be John. And the father of this son of promise
prophesied of him, and said, St. Luke 1st chap.
76 verse, "And thou, child, shalt be called the
prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before
the face of the Lord to prepare His ways;" "To
give knowledge of salvation unto His people by
the remission of their sins." And the Angel
Gabriel said of John before he was born that he
should go before the Savior in the power and
spirit of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to
the children, to make ready a people prepared for
the Lord. And what did John do? Let us read
St. Mark, 1st chap. 4 verse. "John did baptise in
the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repent-
ance for the remission of sins." Jesus yielded
himself to baptism. Was baptised of John in
Jordan; afterward the Spirit of God rested upon
Him and the voice of his Father
said, He was well pleased in Him to
signify that He had done His Father's 
will in being baptised, He said, "He came not to
do His own will but His Father's;" and also said

[Column 2]
to His Disciples, "As my Father hath sent me,
even so send I you." Now, the Gospel plan of
salvation was from heaven, or why did the Savior
ask the question of the scribes?
"The baptism of John, was it from
heaven or of men?" And as the people believed
John to be a prophet the scribes did not deny that
it was not from heaven. The last chapters and
verses of Mathew and Mark tell all people what
to do. And Peter, Acts 38th chap. and 39th
verse. "Then Peter said unto them, repent and
be baptised every one of you in the name of
Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye
shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." "For
the promise is unto you, and to your children and
to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord
our God shall call," All people are now called
to repent, turn away from their sins and be bap-
tised for the remission of them, for the angel that
John the Revelator saw, has brought again the
everlasting Gospel to preach to every nation kin-
dred, tongue and people. Saying with a loud
voice, Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the
hour of His judgment is come," etc. Last chap.
of Revelation 12th verse. The word of the Savior
is, "And behold, I come quickly and my reward
is with me, to give every man according as his
work shall be." 15th chap. 4th verse. "Who
shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name?
for thou only art holy; for all nations shall come
and worship before thee; for thy judgments are
made manifest." "And I heard another voice
from heaven saying, come out of her my people
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye
receive not of her plagues." The Latter-day
Saints have gathered out from the world, that they
may learn more fully of the ways of the Lord and
walk in his paths. All these things it is
necessary to do, to be a Latter-day Saint. When
we have been obedient to all the ordinances of
the Gospel we then go on from knowledge to
knowledge until we become perfected in the truth
and have no doubt, knowing that we have kept
His commandments. For whosoever is born of
God overcometh the world and this is the victory,
even our faith. And it is the spirit that beareth
witness, because the spirit is truth. "For there 
are these that bear record in heaven, the Father,
the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three
are one" And there are three that bear witness 
in earth, the spirit, and the water, and the blood;
and these three agree in one."
	Now, if we are obedient to the word, "He that
believeth and is baptised shall be saved," and 
receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands
by men holding the authority. We have three
that bear witness in heaven. We have three
that bear witness on earth, the spirit, the water,
and blood. And these all agree in one. The
witness of our Heavenly Father is the greatest.
The Latter-day Saints have the knowledge of the
true Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
The only revealed religion existing on the earth;
they know the penalty of sin, and the joys and
happiness of a pure life, and like former-day
Saints count all things else as dross, compared
to the eternal riches of an endless life in the man-
sions prepared for those who love and serve Him
faithfully to the end. A Latter-day Saint when
first initiated into the Kingdom of God becomes
as a little child and receives nourishment from the 
Holy Sprit, which leads and guides into all truth.
If they forsake the world and all its pride and
allurements the Holy Ghost takes up its abode
with them, to usher them into a new life; their souls
are filled with peace and joy, they have found the
pearl of great price the truth, the gem of revela-
tion, they are satisfied, and have confidence to
seek at the throne or grace for light and knowledge
that they may grow in grace and in the mysteries
of the things of God, and under these conditions
we must be as perfect as we know how, according
to the knowledge we possess. I have lightly

[Column 3]
touched on what it requires to be a Latter-day
Saint. 
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 12, 1887


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	On Wednesday, the 28th of December, Brother
and Sister Mifflin Palmer, of the Eighth
Ward of this city, celebrated their Golden Wed-
ding. The couple are both past the age of three
score and ten, and are natives of Chester County,
Pennsylvania, where they were married fifty years
ago, by the Rev. Mr. Miles.
	Mr. and Mrs. Palmer have had eight children,
six of whom are living, thirty-one grandchildren,
six of whom are dead, and they have one great-
grandchild. They are the parents of the wife of
Bishop Bringhurst of Toquerville, the wife of
Bishop John C. Sharp, of Vernon, Mrs. Edwin
Frost, of this city; and of Bro. A. M. Palmer of
Taylorsville.
	About forty persons spent the evening in feast-
ing, speech making, singing, chatting, reciting etc.
During the evening the wife of fifty years exhibited
her wedding dress and veil to the company who
had assembled to do them honor. The father
was presented by the children with a gold-headed
cane, and the mother with a handsome gold ring;
they also received many tokens of love and esteem
from their children and grandchildren, and other
relatives in the East and from friends here in
Utah.
	We join with the many friends of Brother and
Sister Palmer in sincere congratulations, and wish
that their lives may be lengthened out according
to their desires, and that they may enjoy the de-
clining years of their life here together in love and
harmony in the future as in the past.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		PRICE, EMERY CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are doing the best we can in our scat-
tered condition in behalf of the Relief Society
here at Price. We have a good band of sis-
ters here who are working unitedly under the
directions of our worthy President, Sister Cox.
Our Relief Society has been organized two
years.
	On the 17th of November, being our Presi-
dent’s birthday, the sisters all gathered for
meeting and brought with them a selection of
dainties. The tables were spread and every-
thing in readiness for a surprise. When she
came we had a very enjoyable time.
	Sister Sarah L. Cox then gave a short
sketch of her life and showed in many ways
how she had been protected by the hand of
Providence which was very interesting.
	Others of the sisters spoke a short time in
behalf ot Sister Cox’s diligence. Sister Cox
selected a hymn, “’Mid scenes of confusion,"
etc. She was then given some very nice presents,
and adjourned to meet in the evening, which
we enjoyed, and all went home feeling we had
had a good time. 
		Your sister in the Gospel,
		MARIAH BRYNER, Assistant Sec.

		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, in this city, Thursday, Dec.
8, 1887, Counselor Elmina S. Taylor presiding.
On the stand and platform were Sisters Rachel
R. Grant, Sarah M. Kimball, Rebecca Jones,
Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Presendia L. Kimball, Minerva W. Snow, the
Secretary, Elizabeth Howard, and presidents of
of branches of the R. S. in the Stake. After


singing, prayer was offered by Sister Zina.
Continued by singing.  Secretary called the
roll; 20 presidents, 6 counselors and 1 teacher
responded.  Minutes of previous conference
were read and accepted.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor made brief remarks, al-
luding feelingly to the recent death of the
President of the Relief Society, Sister Eliza
R. S. Smith, and praying for an outpouring of
the Holy Spirit.
	First Ward represented by Pres. M. Steele;
Second Ward, Coun. S. McGregor; Third
Ward, Coun. F. Smith; Fifth Ward, Pres. Ann
Brimley; Sixth Ward, Pres. S. Fulmer; Seventh
Ward, Pres. M. A. Lambert; Eighth Ward,
Pres. E. Fletcher; Ninth Ward, Pres. S. Groo;
Eleventh Ward, Pres. M. McMaster, Twelfth
Ward, Pres. J. Druce; Thirteenth Ward,Coun.
L. A. Wells; Fourteenth Ward, Coun. M. W.
Wilcox; Fifteenth Ward, Coun. R. Jones.
	Remarks suitable to the occasion and in ap-
preciation of Sister E. R. S. Smith, were made
by Sisters Zina D. H. Young, Presendia L.
Kimball and Minerva W. Snow. These sisters
also urged the necessity of union and confidence
in each other, and exhorted all to earnestly en-
deavor to live near the Lord and be guided by
His Spirit.  Conference adjourned with singing
and benediction.
	Afternoon session: Opened as usual, and the
Seventeenth Ward report was given by Pres.
B. W. Smith; Sixteenth Ward, Secretary Sarah
Cumberland; Eighteenth Ward, Sister M. W.
Snow; Nineteenth Ward, Pres. Rachel Whipple;
Twentieth Ward, by a sister who had been re-
quested by the President to report; Sugar
House Ward, Pres. S. B. Gibson; Big Cotton-
wood, Pres. E. Stevenson; Union, by the Trea-
surer, M. Brady; Draper, Pres. C. Smith;
Granite, Pres. Ruth Despain; Mountain Dell,
Pres. Dixon; Sandy, by one of the Counselors;
West Jordan, Sister Cutler; North Jordan, Sis-
ter Webster; Granger, Pres. M. E. Porter;
Brighton, Pres. M. A. Hazon.
	After these verbal reports had been given,
very excellent instructions were given and testi-
monies were borne by Sister R. R. Grant, B.
W. Smith, H. M. Whitney, R. B. Pratt, M. D.,
Mary S. Clark of Farmington, and also Sisters
S. M. Kimball and E. Howard.  Their teach-
ings embraced a variety of subjects; among the
most important were remarks upon obedience,
the word of wisdom and the training of the
young people in the ways of the Lord.
	Pres. Angus M. Cannon read a letter from
Pres. Woodruff, in which some instructions were
given concerning certain ordinances and cere-
monies for the sick, and he also made instruc-
tive remarks.
	Sister Zina spoke of the words of the Prophet
Joseph concerning the afflicted and the sick,
and felt wisdom and the Spirit of God were
necessary, that there might be joy and satisfac-
tion in these labors.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor made some appropriate
closing remarks; felt satisfied with the confer-
ence.  Adjourned for three months, with sing-
ing, and the benediction was pronounced by
Sister Presendia L. Kimball.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	(Synopsis of minutes of the sisters’ meeting,
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Jan.
14, 1888, Coun. Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Opened by singing. Prayer by Sister E. B.
Wells.) Continued by singing.  Minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted. Minutes
of the Primary Association of the 20th Ward
were read by the Secretary.
	Opening remarks were made by Coun.
Young, who was very happy to be with the sis-
ters there again. Spoke upon faith; believed
that through the power of God some of the

[Column Two]

trials of the Saints would be averted; and said
many good things.
	Coun. E. Howard wished all a happy new
year; thought we should all try and understand
the position we are now placed in. Hoped the
sisters would pray for the members of the
Legislature, that they might have wisdom from
above, and pray for the heads of this nation
assembled in Congress, that their hearts be
softened. “ ‘God moves in a mysterious way
His wonders to perform.’ Let us renew our
diligence, and whatever transpires let us be
faithful.” Gave good counsel to the mothers,
and urged union and love towards one another.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, in her remarks said the
greatest gift God can bestow is for us to under-
stand the whisperings of the still small voice;
thought we erred many times in not obeying
this voice. “This is a day when we should
know how to live our religion;” said many
other interesting things. 
	Sister E. B. Wells testified to the truth of
Sister Freeze’s remarks; urged the sisters to
seek for an increase of faith, even mighty faith,
that our sick might be healed; thought we
should be cautious and wise in all things.
Spoke of having traveled among the sisters in
other stakes, and found them diligent and
faithful; had recently visited Sanpete County,
and had enjoyed it very much. Spoke of the
testimonies she had heard there from the
young sisters; referred to the Manti Temple, its
beauty and grandeur, and the work to be done
for the living and the dead; believed our
Father in Heaven was rich, and would not
only reward His faithful children liberally, but
give them good gifts.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball had been much inter-
ested in the remarks upon the cultivation of
the Holy Ghost, and it is one of the highest
faculties to learn to commune with the Holy
Ghost; also said if we transgress a law of our
being, we are doing wrong. We should reflect
upon these things, etc.
	Coun. B. W. Smith believed our prayers
would be heard, and that something would
come along to produce a change in our favor.
“God will look after His people. The chains
that will bind Satan will be our own good acts,
our becoming pure aud holy before God.”
	Sister Norman said, “The gift of the Holy
Ghost brings things past and present to our
minds. Get wisdom and understanding, then
we can drink of the bitter cup.” Prayed
that God would put hooks into the jaws of
those who are trying to make laws against this
people, etc.
	Sister Mary Grey bore a faithful testimony
to the truth; also Sister Leaker and Sister
Mary Silver and Sister Brown.
	(Coun. S. M. Kimball made some brief re-
marks, and burst forth in the gift of tongues,
which seemed to thrill the congregation. In-
terpretation given by “Sister Zina.” Sister
Dyer also bore a strong testimony to the truth,
and spoke in tongues. Interpretation given.
Sister May, recently from Scotland, said a few
words, and the spirit of tongues resting upon
her, she spoke with much power. The inter-
pretation was given.
	Coun. Z. D. Young made a few closing re-
marks, and the meeting was adjourned for two
weeks. Singing. Benediction was pronounced
by Coun. B. W. Smith.)
					JANE SMELLIE, Sec.


BOOK NOTICES.
  "The Rose of Deseret" is the significent
title of a neat little volume of poetry and prose
issued recently by Sister Emily B. Spencer, of
St. George. She is not unknown to the public
as a writer, this being her second book. The
first one was published about six years ago. In


our opinion this book is superior to the first.
It is printed on very good paper in clear type,
and contains in all one hundred pages. There
is a dictionary of names of men and women
with the meaning and derivation of the same,
which will be useful for reference. The price
of the book is 50 cts; for sale at the Juvenile
Instructor Office, where it was printed. 
	Sister Spencer has arranged the contents
nicely, and there are some very excellent
thoughts and truths, clothed in purity, sim-
plicity and sweetness  Some of the subjects
she has chosen are quite pathetic, well written,
and also true; for instance, "The Lost Child,"
"The Martyrs," "A Heroine of the Batalion,"
and others. The poems which seemed to us
most musical were, "The Rose of Deseret" and
"Wildwood Flowers."
	We have not space to mention more, but can
safely recommend the work to the sisters, and
trust they will purchase such books as are
written by the women of Zion, in preference to 
the floating trash, undeserving the name of
literature, that very often has only its "being so
cheap" as its recommendation.

	"Goodholmes Domestic Cyclopedia of Prac-
tical Information, Illustrated," has been some-
time in our possession, and we have found it
very useful for reference. It is really a family
book, and deserves a place in every household. 
The work is alphabetically arranged, and it is
so simple in manner of giving headings, etc., 
that one cannot fail to find without delay the
desired information. There are recipes for
cooking sufficient for any housekeeper; also for
preserving, making wines from fruits, vinegar,
pickles of very many kinds, and bills of fare
for dinner-parties, lunches, teas and various en-
tertainments. There are articles on bathiug,
drainage, exercise, house ventilation, diet for
invalids, warming water and other hygienic
subjects, which would be very useful in the
home; and also upon the care of infants and 
children, the sick room, nursing and wet nurs-
ing, fevers and other diseases. Special emer-
gencies in cases of accidents and things of that
kind are ably treated upon. The list of ingre-
dients needed "has been prefixed to each recipe,
to save the necessity of reading all the direc-
tions before knowing if the ingredients are
within reach, and to lessen the danger of over-
looking any in getting them together." Many 
of the illustrations are original, others collected
from various sources. The principal appro-
priation has been made by arrangement with
English publishers from the great cook-book
of Miss Acton. 
	After a careful examination of this cyclo-
pedia, we feel justified in recommending it to
the public, and think it the best work of the
kind that we have ever seen. It contains 600
pages of printed matter, and 25 ruled pages,
blank, for written recipes. The index covers
over 20 pages. The book is well bound, paper
an excellent quality. For sale at James Dwyer's 
book store.


OUR BONDAGE.
       BY FRANCES E. WILLARD.

  I wonder how many women go  back in
thought, as I do at this weary hour, to the
time when they first lost their liberty? I ought
to be thankful, doubtless, for mine lasted longer
than that of most. During sixteen blessed
years I had feet uncramped, limbs unfettered,
trunk unbandaged, hair untwisted, and, largely
as a consequence, spirit blithe as a singing sky-
lark.  Living in the country, and in much 
isolation, my dear mother permitted to her
daughters the almost unexampled bliss of free-
dom in both body and mind. There was no 
hill too high to climb, and no tree for that


matter; no valley too deep to explore, no brook
to wet to wade. Out-door air, simple food,
eight hours sleep every twenty-four—all these
beatitudes were ours.
	But there came a day—alas! the dark day
of my youth—on which I was as literally 
caught out of the fields and pastures as was 
ever a young colt; confronted by a long dress
that had been made for me, corsets and high-
heeled shoes that had been bought, hair-pins
and ribbons for my straying locks, and I was
told that it simply “wouldn’t answer” to “run
wild” another day. Company from the city
was expected; I must be made presentable; I
“had got to look like other folks.”
	That was a long time ago, but I have never
known a single physically reasonable day since
that sweet May morning, when I cried in vain
for longer lease of liberty. Those "adorn-
ments”—the inquisition of fashion—changed
my outlook on the world. A caged bird be-
came my fitting emblem. Of a shy, sensitive
nature, I yielded at once to the inevitable. But
my high heels threw me out of poise, and I
wouldn’t try to walk more than was necessary
in the clinging folds of that long, tight-fitting
gown. Hence I ceased to be a denizen of God’s
beautiful out-doors; was a rambler and a 
climber no more, but gave myself to books,
and have remained in my cage—the house—
right on through the years. After my long
day’s work with the pen, I say to myself so 
often, “If I could put on a hat, button a coat 
around me, and step off freely, how delightful 
a walk would be.” But no; there are intricate
preliminaries before a woman can do anything
so simple as to take a constitutional. In my
own case, the easy wrapper that I wear at my
work, with its long, heavy skirt, must be
changed for a street-dress; the slippers for shoes
to be buttoned up; a bonnet, affording no pro-
tection from light, wind, or observation, must 
be "tastefully” put on; tight-fitting gloves
drawn to their places, and then only, with
skirts to be lifted at every step until one’s knees
grow weary, the airing may begin. A man
would have two things to do—put on a coat
and crowd a hat over his eyes; a woman has
three articles to take off (wrapper and slippers),
dress to draw on, collar and cuffs to adjust and
pin, shoes to button, wrap to fasten, bonnet to
tie, and then all their burdens and constrictions
to endure. 
	So, for the thousandth time, I return to my
room, actually too tired to “get ready,” and
then get over the ground,” though Lake
Michigan’s splendid expanse stretches away to
the east, and there are lovely groves, cool,
shady nooks, and tempting by-ways all about
me. Much I muse why these things are, and
clearer grows the conviction that woman will
never be a rational citizen of the world while 
these things are. I recognize joyfully the pro-
gress we have made since I was a student at
Milwaukee, in 1857, when no girl was really
“stylish” who wore less than eight white skirts
trailing on the ground after her; but how slowly 
we move when women of refinement will wear 
bustles, lace themselves as of old, pinch hands
and feet, bare their heads to the blast that their 
tufts of bonnets may be “like the rest,” and
simper their criticisms on “dress reform.” Near
me on the walls of my study hang Annie
Jenness Miller’s picture and engravings of her
new costumes. I look up at them with a 
prayerful heart, saying, “How long, O Lord,
how long?” 	
	Instead of the walk I would like to take,
had I the old-time conditions—the modest,
simple, short dress, loose jacket, and broad-
brimmed hat of auld lang-syne—I pen this
jeremiade, and bid God-speed to the earnest-
hearted woman who, in roaring Gotham, plans
for us women a costume that hints at better
days.

[Column Two]

	Several years ago three Russian lady doctors
started, at Tashkend, a consulting hospital for
Mussulman women. From the beginning the
experiment proved a success and the popularity
of the hospital has been increasing ever since.
During the last twelve months fifteen thousand
consultations have been given.—Ex.
	Mrs. Gladstone, writing a prefatory note for
“Women Workers in the Liberal Cause,” says:
“We cannot recognize too clearly the crying
need of education and combined effort among
women. A great cause such as that which
now lies nearest to our hearts, the cause of Ire-
land, should arouse in us a passionate desire
for thorough and accurate knowledge of its
history. Strange that this should have been
so much overlooked.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	DIED, in Meadow, Millard Co., Dec. 18th, 1887, Samuel
Adams, from old age, being eighty-two years of age last
August. He was born August, 1805, at Badderly Edge,
Staffordshire, England; baptized July 28, 1841; emigrated,
and landed at Castle Garden, New York, June 20, 1860;
came to Utah in 1861; came to Meadow, Millard Co., 1870.
Although Father Adams had been lame and blind for a 
number of years, he managed, with the assistance of his
son Hyrum, to go to the St. George Temple, and finished 
all the work he could do there. Will not this stimulate
others to do likewise? He leaves a number of children
and grandchildren and many friends. He died as he had 
lived, a good Latter-day Saint.
										COM.


IN MEMORIAM.
	
	In affectionate remembrance of Sinah Pugh Bishop, who 
departed this life at her home in in the 16th Ward, Salt
Lake City, after a short illness of paralysis, Dec. 24th,
1887. She was born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, England
Dec. 14th, 1831, and embraced the Gospel at the age of
sixteen, and was valiant in defending the truth delivering
tracts from house to house. Came to Utah in 1855, and
was married to James Bishop the same year, by whom she
had four sons and five daughters; two daughters only sur-
vive her.
	She was a faithful teacher in the Relief Society; also a
teacher in the Sunday School, and was Connselor to the
President of the Primary Association, and had won the
love of the little ones. She was a firm believer in all the
principles of the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and never lost an opportunity of bearing testimony
to the same, exhorting her sisters at all times to be faithful
and true. She rejoiced in and enjoyed to a great extent
the gifts of the Gospel, causing the hearts of her sisters to
rejoice in their meetings, and was faithful to every trust;
she was untiring in her attendance upon the sick, day and
night, comforting the hearts of all wherever she went, with
kind words and acts and wise counsel.
	And we, the sisters of the Relief Society, through the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, wish to tender our heart-felt sym-
pathy to the family bereaved, presenting them with a copy 
and placing a copy on our records.
	And while we mourn our loss, we desire to acknowledge
the hand of God, knowing that our loss is her gain, for she
has gone to  mingle with her loved ones. May we profit
by her good example, and be as ready when called, and
worthy to meet her.
						DIANA REID, Prest.
						SARAH CUMBERLAND, Sec.

		"Leaves have their time to fall,
			And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
		And stars to set—but all,
			Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death!
		We know when moons shall wane,
			When summer birds from far shall cross the sea.
		When Autumn's hue shall tinge the golden grain,
			But who shall teach us when to look for thee?"

	DIED, in the 17th Ward, Salt Lake City, Dec. 1st, 1887,
of diphtheria, Mary Lillias, daughter of James S. and 
Elizabeth Brown, born January 8th, 1874, and was therefore
aged 13 years, 10 months and 23 days.
	Lillias was a bright and sweet girl, who endeared herself 
to all who knew her, by her dutiful and obedient spirit. 

[Column 2]
Being her Sunday School teacher for about two years, I
learned to love and appreciate this noble spirit. She was
always attentive, and endeavored to store up the knowledge
gained in the Sabbath School; kind and attentive, consider-
ate to her classmates, and always gentle and thoughtful of
me.
	She made great sacrifices to attend Sunday School, hav-
ing so many little brothers and sisters who claimed so much
of her attention and care, yet she worked hard and late
Saturday night, that she and they might be ready for Sun-
day School. She only missed one Sunday during the year
in attendance until the time of her death, and then she
was very sick.	
	Supt. Beattie requested her to learn the ten commandments
the last Sabbath she was at school; her mother says she
began to learn them as soon as she got home, such was her
anxiety to do as required and her eagerness to gain knowl-
edge; she learned them and repeated them to her mother
on her death bed.
	I shall miss Lillias from my little class, and her vacant
seat will make me feel sad, but I know she has gone to a
better world, where sorrow and death can never enter, and
God is the Father of all. To her parents her loss is irrepar-
able, but may He who heals the breaking heart and dries
the mourner’s tear sustain them through this great bereave-
ment.
	"The loved and lost! they are within the door,
		That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing,
	With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
	In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
		And God Himself their Lord and Judge and King;
	And we must do the work that they laid down,
		Take up the song where they broke off the strain.
	So, journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
	Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
		And our lost loved ones will be found again."
								FLORENCE ALDER.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS, GAS, WATER, &  STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT  LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES,EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assortment of 
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and  In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	  The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
