VOL. 16.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1887. No. 3.


LET US WORSHIP GOD.

Let us worship God on the mountains,
	In the valley, on the hill,
Where the wild free harps of nature
	With the grandest music thrill,
Let us worship Him with singing,
	And with the voice of prayer,
And, as He is ever present,
	Let us worship everywhere.

Let us worship God in the winter,
	When the wild winds seek our path,
And we feel the awful presence
	Of the Storm-King in his wrath,
Let us calmly wait nor suffer
	Our fears to overwhelm
The child-like trust that crieth,
	"Our Father's at the helm."

Let us worship God in the spring-time,
	When the beautiful is born,
And we hear the rapturous singing
	Or the birds in the early morn, 
Let us worship Him with gladness,
	Who out of the wintry strife
Hath wrought with unseen fingers,
	Such miracles of life.

Let us worship God in the summer,
	When the earth is in her prime,
When winds, and the wandering breezes 
	Have a soft eolian chime,
Let us worship Him with fervor
	In the forest aisles and bowers,
Where the angels talk with mortals
	Through their alphabet of flowers.

Let us worship God in the autumn.
	When the sighing breezes come,
And, like laborers in His vineyard,
	Sing with joy the "harvest home,"
In all times and in all seasons,
	Through labor and in prayer,
Let us worship God, the Father,
And praise Him everywhere.
							BELLE BUSH.
Belvidere Seminary, Belvidere, N. J.


[column 1]
		THE IDOL OF TO-DAY.
	“Moreover," the Lord saith, “because the
daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with
stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking
and mincing as they go. 	*      *      *      *		
Therefore, the Lord will smite with a scab the
crown of the head of the daughters of Zion,
and the Lord will discover their secret parts,
	In that day the Lord will take away the
bravery of their tinkling ornaments, the chains
and the bracelets and the mufflers,
	The bonnets and the ornaments of the legs,
and the head-bands, and the tablets and the
earrings.
	The rings    *     *      *	 *      *	 the
changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles,
and the wimples, and the crisping pins,
	The glasses, and the fine linen,and the hoods
and the vails.
	And it shall come to pass that instead of
sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of
a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair
baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding
of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty.”
Isaiah, chapter III, verses xvi-xxiv.	
	In choosing this subject for present reflection,
and writing, I do not do so cynically. Too
well I realize the condition of the minds of the
ladies of the present day. They are weak or
foolish enough to think (and sometimes think

[column 2]

aloud) that any one who dares oppose, in word
or act, the tide of fashion, is selfish and con-
servative, and every thought expressed against
their manner of dressing, is an individual and
personal attack. I wish to state that in my
remarks upon this subject, I am neither per-
sonal nor biased against those who choose to
“follow fashion.” Neither am I selfishly de-
fending my own indifference to the dictates of
the fickle goddess. I am unselfishly and cau-
didly considering the matter in as clear and
impartial a light as ray unbiased mind can
throw upon it.
	I claim that I am not conservative. Too
gladly would I behold the progress of enlight-
enment, the advancement of my sex from the
weakness and ignorance of the past. I have
felt how heavily the chains of Eve have hung
upon woman. How often have I prayed for
the redemption of my sex from the false ideas
and aims of the past! How happy was I, when
a dreaming, aspiring girl; to think that I was
born in an age when woman would rise above
the dead level of mediocrity to a higher un-
derstanding and practise of life! I have grown
to maturer and more observant woman-
hood, and among the lost ideals of human
greatness and goodness, among the vanished
dreams of trusting girlhood, is this one. I be-
lieve that women are more enslaved to-day
than ever before, by fetters of their own mak-
ing.
	Converse with the majority of women upon
the subject of the higher education of our sex,
and what is the response? They have no time to
study. Suggest to them to teach their little ones
at home and not send them to school among
rougher natures while so young and plastic.
They have neither knowledge, time, inclination
nor strength. The truth is, their manner of
dressing and living is injurious to the health,
and arbitrary Fashion demands all their leisure
—she will accept no half-hearted worship. We
will know that the object in which we most de-
light, that which requires our greatest atten-
tion and best time, that which we cultivate
with the most persevering assiduity, becomes
also the absorbing element of life; in short,
deny it as we may, it becomes the object on
which we set our hearts. How can a woman,
devoted to fashion, fancy work and fashionable
society, find time to study higher things, or to
cultivate herself to a higher intellectual life?
God has given but twenty-four hours in each
day both to the fashionable and the unfashion-
able, and if that time be devoted to one thing
it cannot be to another. True, we divide our
time between various pursuits, but one side or
the other must preponderate, and our minds
will, of necessity, run in the preponderating
channel.
	The Utopian dream, cherished by many no-
ble minds that woman shall rise to an equality
with man, seems little likely of realization
while the feverish race after this stern goddess
continues at its present heat.
	Why should we depend upon the admiration
of the other sex, or even that of our own, for
our soul’s happiness? Are there not as noble
aims and as high paths for us to tread? Are
there not as great things as thorough knowl-
edge required of us for eternal exaltation as of
our brethren? Oh, this awful ignorance! How
I could weep as I reflect upon it! Do women
sincerely believe that their minds were created
merely to remain as infants in knowledge,while
men march on ahead of them in a constant pro-

[column 3]

gression? Even the reading of a newspaper or
literary magazine does not constitute much
mental food. How very, very few know any-
thing at all about where the paths of Intellect
really lead! Oh, no, they have no time to
learn! And yet speak to them upon our future
destiny and they are all wending their way, as
fast as their sands of time will take them, to
that holy city, whose light and glory is the
glory of intelligence.
	"Art is long and time is fleeting.” Too short
is this life for the accomplishment of too much
good or the acquirement of too much knowl-
ekge; but the little life allotted us is all spent
in living it and trying to look pretty and at-
tracting the love and admiration (?) of the
other sex. Their admiration! Would not their
admiration for something higher and better
be more acceptable to a thoughtful and noble
woman? And after all, man is but mortal and
subject to err, and if a woman must devote her
time and soul to please his eye in order to win
his esteem, that esteem is too hard earned for
anything so trival and fleeting. We say trivial
for the object, a handsome costume, is surely a
poor thing to admire compared with a high,
beautiful, immortal soul, and fleeting,—ah, sis-
ters, you who depend upon fashion to hold for
you the love of husband or lover will discover
soon enough how transient such love can be!
	God’s arm is the arm to lean upon, and the
blessing and power of heaven cannot be called
down by a worship of Mammon, nor the fash-
ions of the world. We cannot serve two mas-
ters and receive the approval of both. God
requires a single eye of devotion unto Him,
and though we may claim that we do not place
our hearts upon the vain things of earth, I sin-
cerely believe that we shall be judged more by
our acts than our words. Ours is a religion of
practise and reality more than abstract theory.
Many will say that our Heavenly Father is too
great to take note of so small a thing as fash-
ion; that He only sees our hearts and judges
us by our good intentions. Yet He is not too
great to count the hairs upon our heads and
has he not sealed his stamp of disapprobation
upon Fashion by the words quoted from Isaiah
in the opening of this article? Truly, He
judges the heart and many of us will be sur-
prised to find how much we had misunderstood
ourselves. I have seen in a chart of the up-
ward and downward steps of life, that good in-
tentions form a very prominent part of the
downward ladder.
	How can the women of this people and of
the present dispensation, with all their profess-
ions of godliness, wink at and encourage these
things when such sure and dire destruction is
threatened against the daughters of Zion. My
sisters, we are too well fulfilling the one part of
Isaiah’s prophecy, and God will as surely ful-
fill his part, unless we repent. Especially
absurd and almost criminal does this en-
couragement seem in those who are placed to
guide the footsteps of the young; and very
censurable are also those of the other sex who
encourage by praise and flattery this gaudy,
silly life-work.
	Aside from this, how is beauty—the beauty
which God created—sacrificed, as it were, to
Moloch! What does the Lord mean by a
stomacher but the cruel corset, that has caused
so much deformity, ill-health, misery and less-
ening of life? Wear it loose? This is not
generally done; the presence of the corset
forms too strong a temptation to wear it tight


[Column 1]
﻿or at least too snug to be healthful and if worn
loose it is of little use except, as some say, “to
support the back.” Oh nonsense! Does any
one suppose for a moment that Eve was sup-
ported by bones and steels? And that outrage
to all modesty and beauty, that disgusting de-
formity of the human form and dishonor to
God’s handiwork and ourselves—the bustle!
How must angels frown and demons laugh to
see our sisters, the daughters of Zion! with
that thing on to mock at and deform the shape
that God has made!
	Then that silly, ignorant fashion, bangs!
Did God give us a seat of intelligence to cover
up? “Let your light shine!” But we are
ashamed of the little light we do possess!
Ashamed of the small intelligence we do enjoy
aud so must animalize ourselves by concealing
the only intelligent part of our physical being!
Am I cynical? Are my words too strong tobe polite? Too harsh to bear out the friendly,
cordial liberty to think and act “as you please,”
the unbiased candor professed in the opening of
this article? No! Every word is prompted by
love and sincerity! But it makes my heart
ache to see the blind devotedness of my sisters
to so unworthy an idol! I am grieved as I
think upon the errors that lead so many
women astray. I feel a desire, with an inten-
sity which I cannot fully express, to point out
a better path, to show clearly to their minds
and hearts that there is a better, a brighter
and a nobler life-path—a path wherein are
germs of much more happiness and greatness
—a proposition which they will not believe.
And I feel like a “lone watcher on the tower,”
whose feeble voice cannot be heard by the
slumbering multitude.
	Oh, that God would grant us power to so
live as to merit a higher desting on earth, and
so secure a corresponding destiny in heavenl
Who can say that our intellectual acquire-
ments are equal to man’s? And will we not
be correspondingly inferior in the hereafter, un-
less we make a courageous attack upon our
present system and overcome folly and ignor-
ance with wisdom and intelligence? And what
woman with one spark of nobleness or ambi-
tion in her heart would be content to contem-
plate eternal inferiority to her sex!
	Where lies this trouble? There has been a
cry for equal opportunities and equal rights.
Those who have rights have also duties, and
“there’s the rub!” I claim that the trouble lies
with the women themselves. To-day their
aims are no higher than just where they stand.
How many a good, intelligent, patient woman
who has devoted her highest efforts to emanci-
pate her sex from political and mental slavery
has had her courage dampened and her hands
tied by the indifference, inappreciation and in-
capacity of  them for whose good she was earn-
estly working! I claim that Fashion is to
blame! Of course, neatness, cleanliness, pur-
ity, inward as well as outward, are a positive
duty. Even a culture of the ideal beauties of
life are not only proper, but necessary—the
highest art and beauty may be studied to ad-
vantage—but not that which emulates pride
and deforms and injures us and makes us
haughty and takes so much of our time that
our minds become dwarfed and narrow, and
unprogressive; not that false beauty that rend-
ers our hearts selfish and unfruitful in the
higher aims of life and indifferent to the ac-
complishment of good and the best ends for
which our beings were intended!
	This rage for fashion is to-day, and has been
for many years a life pursuit, a constant cul-
ture, a positive worship, on whose shrine has
been sacrificed many a noble life. A worship
wafted from the atheist shores France to those
of America and welcomed with joy and adora-
tion by our own sisters, whose aims should have
risen to higher realms with the revelations of
God that re-established the bride of Christ

[Column 2]
upon the earth, for He will not be satisfied
with the half-hearted worship of the present
day.
					RUBY LAMONT.
			Glenwood, Utah, June 27, 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿
THE MUNICIPAL FRANCHISE IN
		DENMARK.
	As might be expected from the similarity in
race, Denmark is the first European country
where the example set by England and Swe-
den in extending local franchises to women is
likely to be imitated. Mr. Frederick Bajer, as
our readers are already aware, brought for-
ward in the Danish Folkething a proposal that
tax-paying women should have the municipal
franchise in Copenhagen. This was passed by
a majority, but the motion was lost in the Up-
per House, and further action must therefore
postponed till next Session. The friends of
the movement in Denmark are now deliberat-
ing what form the motion shall assume.
	The law of municipal franchise in Copen-
hagen is very restricted, no man voting who
does not pay income-tax on 1,000 kronors, or
£55[-] and the proposal to extend the right to
women was part of a larger measure, in which
there were many clauses. One of these was to
extend the vote to men who are rate-paying
citizens of only 800 kronors value, who are at
present excluded. This proposal was so demo-
cratic as immediately to win the hearts of the
majority of the Folkething. Another clause
was to make the methods of voting easier. On
the 16th of March it became known that the
Minister of the Interior was well disposed to
the admission of women to the franchise, pro-
vided it was restricted, as the Icelandic Act of
1882 had been, to unmarried and widowed
women in an independent position in their own
households. On the 21st March the Folke-
thing passed the municipal vote for women by
51 supporters against 15 opponents- Then,
however, it was discovered that the Minister,
although he did not object to the part of the
Bill which had reference to women, did not ap-
prove of the whole; and “moreover,” he added,
“it was in his opinion disadvantageous to make
a local law applying only to Copenhagen, but
it would be wiser to make it a general law ap-
plicable to the whole of Denmark,” giving in
support of his views the example that had
been set in Iceland, where the same question
had been first raised locally (in the little town
of Akueyri) with want of success, but had
afterwards been carried when applied to the
whole island.
	When the Bill came forward in the Lands-
thing on March 29th, it was opposed by Pro-
fessor Matzen, who urged the House not to mix
up the general question of municipal rights
with that of women's suffrage, which was no
part of it, but which might be dealt with in
some general reform. His advice was taken,
and the women's municipal franchise was out-
voted by 38 votes against 14. Had the votes
of the two Houses been taken together, an ex-
amination of the numbers shows that the Bill
would have triumphed. There was no time to
take the question back to the Folkething, as
the Session was closed on April 1st.
	The point for discussion now is, whether the
measure shall be introduced next Session in the
same shape, or be extended so as to include all
the widowed or unmarried women in Denmark
who have hitherto been shut out by sex alone
from voting, but possess every other qualifica-
tion. If confined as before to Copenhagen,
only a very small number of women would be
enfranchised, as those who pay taxes on an in-
come of 1,000 kronors (£55), who alone would
be included, are only 3,800. On the other
hand, if the scheme is to embrace the whole of
Denmark, it must, to be successful, be actively
supported by women themselves. We cannot

[Column 2]
doubt that this will be the case. The Woman’s
Union has already held and is holding meet-
ings for the discussion of this question, and
there seems a very healthy state of activity in
their organisation, which is oonstantly increas-
ing the number of its members.—Englishwom-
an's Review.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING.
	The Twenty-first Ward Y. L. M. I. A. held
a very successful anniversary meeting May 25th,
President Hattie Longmore presiding. The
programme, which consisted of songs, recita-
tions, an essay, and an historical sketch on the
life of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, was most
creditably rendered, Sisters Presendia L Kim-
ball, Elmina S. Taylor Bathsheba Smith and
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson being present. The re-
mainder of the evening was spent in listning
to the words of counsel and instruction which
fell from their lips.
	Bishop Allen expressed his pleasure with all
he had seen and heard, and closed by asking
the blessing of God to rest upon all present.
Meeting adjourned for one year.
				M. E. SCHULL, Secretay.

BARGAIN IN MUSIC.
	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock: Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


The Queen of Holland presented a remarka-
ble gift to the King on his seventieth birthday.
The ladies in waiting carried in an immense 
bouquet, which they placed before His Majesty.
The King was greatly surprised when sud-
denly the top of the bouquet opened, and the
head of his infant daughter peeped out of the 
flowers.
	Miss Lucy Larcom seldom makes plans for
anything; when she says to herself that she
will write something, she is pretty sure not to
do it; and she seldom knows where she is going
till she starts.  Her usual summer resorts are
Centre Harbor and (in August and September)
the higher White Mountain regions.  She is
not now engaged upon any connected work,
but will probably write some verses or sketches
—or both—before the summer is over.


19	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE DEAR DEPARTED.

Another dear one gone forever!
Another glad spirit has flown;
Passed over the dark mystic river
To the land of the Great Unknown.
Approaching almost to its border,
Wave-washed by time’s tide flowing on,
With hand-shaded eyes now we follow,
Seeking after the loved one just gone.
Passing through affliction's deep waters,
With heart’s eager cry to the throne,
“O whither, dear Heavenly Father,
May we seek the spirit now flown?”

All around us reigns silence and shadow,
Mysterious darkness and gloom;
And we pray for an angel of mercy
To roll back the stone from the tomb.

We wonder and question and marvel,
And trace precious names on the stone,
Search through the still cities of marble
In vain for the pure spirit flown;
To heart’s cry comes back the weird echo,
“Never more returning to cheer.”
We shrink back, yet long to pass over
Death's mystical river so drear.

And yet through the cloud of our sorrow,
Hope points away over the heights,
And whispers, “There’ll come a to-morrow,
Whose glory no power can blight.”
Faint falls on our ear the low murmur,
“No harm can the faithful betide;
Weep not, for the tears of the mourner
Are staid, in those realms glorified.”
Time’s current is silently bearing
Precious crafts afar out to sea,
Dear vessels, with heart-treasures laden
No mortal may evermore see;
Yet we trace in a far off harbor,
That touches the evergreen shore,
Now quietly lying at anchor,
White ships whose voyage’s are o’er--
And I know that sooner or later
The summons will come unto me,
And wait for the voice of the Master
That will cheer me o’er the dark sea.

We watch the true signal lights burning,
We trust to reach haven at last,
And with those whose loss we are mourning
Rejoice that all danger is past.

There storms cannot reach us, nor sorrows,
Nor grief shall our spirits appal,
For peace reigns supreme through those borders,
And His love prevails over all.
	L. M. HEWLING.
Atchison, Kansas.


REFLECTIONS ON THE WORD OF
WISDOM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	My Dear Sisters:—The subject I shall take
to treat upon, is one which I consider of vital
importance to every Latter-day Saint, or to
those who aspire to that important position, in
a temporal point of view, and to our temporal
welfare.  This important subject is the Word
of Wisdom.
     Now, dear sisters, don’t shrug your shoulders
or throw your heads with such a contemptuous
toss, although I don’t really think a constant
reader of the EXPONENT would ever indulge
any such feeling, for I think it inspires to a
better spirit and loftier ideas in regard to any
principle connected with our holy religion.
Notwithstanding the subject has been treated
upon so extensively, and scarcely a Sabbath
passes but some of our brethren speak in re-
gard to it; yet how many, yes very many, are
utterly indifferent to its teachings.  There is
not another revelation in the Book of Doc. and
Cov., that is written with such plainness and
simplicity, or as easy to be comprehended as
the one on the Word of Wisdom.  It is adapted


to the capacity of all, who may, or can be called
Latter-day Saints. With a promise that if we
give heed to those sayings we shall run, and
not weary, walk, and not faint, and the destroy-
ing angel shall pass us by as it did the children
of Israel, and not slay us. We are promised
great wisdom, and the proper exercise of this
wisdom, would prompt us to stop running or
walking, before we get weary or faint.
	We, as a people, believe according to the pre-
dictions of both ancient and modern prophets,
that a destroying scourge should sweep over the
earth in the last days. Therefore, the Lord
in His great mercy has given His Saints this
warning, that they, through giving heed to it,
should have great faith given them, that they
may have power to rebuke the power of the de-
stroyer through the exercise of the healing
ordinances.
	But where will our faith be, if we wilfully
neglect to obey these laws that are laid down
for our protection? I am very much afraid, if
we have any at all, it will be very weak. And
again in the commencement of the revelation
the Lord gives the reason for giving this warn-
ing. He says, “In consequence of evils and
designs which do and will exist in the minds of
designing men in the last days, I have warned
you by giving you this word of wisdom by
revelation, and it is connected with their tem-
poral salvation.” Now what evils and designs
will exist in the minds of these designing men,
will it not be to poison or introduce adulterated
compounds into the tea, coffee, tobacco, and
liquors of all kinds to such an extent that it
will corrupt our systems to such a degree that
we will be incapable of resisting disease? while
those who honor this law, their systems will be
pure and uncorrupted by any of these vile
compounds that brings wealth to the producer,
but death and destruction to the consumer. I
do hope and pray that the Saints of God may
have their eyes opened, to the necessity of obey-
ing these laws in their entirety, that they may
have faith to rebuke the power of the destroyer
in their households when the judgments of God
shall sweep the earth.
	SARAH.


QUEEN MARY AND HOLYROOD.
	High up on a ledge, overlooking the dark,
rippling waters of St. Margaret’s Loch, and in
view of the rolling waters of the Forth and
the superb city of Edinburgh, stands the
solemn ruins of St. Anthony’s Chapel, slowly
crumbling away, an ancient edifice once ten-
anted some three centuries ago by Father Ber-
tram—the Monk of St. Anthony—the last her-
mit of Salisbury crags. The cell he occupied
was situated close beside the west wall of the
small chapel, but the foundations of the former
being a few feet lower than that of the latter,
the natural rock formed one of its walls and
gave to it the appearance of being hewn out of
solid stone. It consisted of only one apartment,
sixteen feet long by twelve broad and eight
feet in height and was altogether a hovel of the
meanest description. The furniture consisted
of a bench of dry turf, which served the dou-
ble purpose of a seat and bed, and reached on
one side of the cell from the hearth to the door.
In one corner was a cupboard in the wall, and
above the fireplace in the corner
opposite was a small oven of stone used
for cooking his victuals and baking his bread.
These together with two large stones covered
with turf for his visitors to sit upon, constituted
the tout ensemble of the interior of his lonely
abode.
	This melancholy remnant of bygone ages
overlooks the palace of Holyrood, a place preg-
nant with thrilling memories of the past as be-
ing associated with the history of Mary Queen of
Scots! Ah, if these dumb walls could speak; if these
everlasting hills which embrace this structure in

[Column 2]
their rocky arms could but re-echo the voices
of the past, what a history they could tell in-
dependent of what is already recorded and
handed down to each succeeding generation!
These are the two objects of attraction, con-
nected with the life and times of Queen Mary
to the sight-seer and to the most casual observ-
er, also to anyone who enters the city from the
east by the railroad, and gray and sombre do
they appear. Curious individuals pry into the
crumbling creviced walls and across the grass
grown floor of the ecclesiastical ruin, thinking
perchance to find some relic of monkish order
or to see some sign indicative of former occu-
pancy; whilst others equally as curious strain
their optics, endeavoring to catch a glimpse of
the once bright crimson stain of ill-starred
Rizzie’s blood on the floor of Holyrood, and
some do even profess to see it yet!
	Three hundred years have fled since took
place the execution of Mary Queen of Scotts.
Historic memories are proverbially short, and
in the crush and buzz of daily life little room
is left for contemplation of the “mighty dead.”
Queen Mary’s life and death were so fateful,
so streaked with romance, pathos and tragedy,
that he would be a prosaic Scotsman indeed,
who did not find stirring within him mingled
feelings of sorrow and admiration.
	With the learned controversies regarding
Queen Mary the average reader can have little
to do. It is possible to suspend judgement in
regard to the long controversy which has waged
round the hapless Queen, without losing interest
in her career. There may be some truth in the
political reasons advanced for the jealousy
shown by Elizabeth towards Mary, but not even
the rudeness of the time, nor a belief in Mary’s
badness could justify the Queen of England
in displaying conduct which would disgrace
even a Lady Macbeth. Whatever historians
may think of the ill-fated Queen’s life there
can be but one opinion regarding the simple
and touching heroism of her death. None but
a woman gifted beyond the average, could have
acquitted herself with Mary’s fortitude
on the day of the execution. “I forgive you,” she
said to her executioner,  for now I hope you
shall end all my troubles.” On the scaffold
Mary bade her domestics adieu, smiling and
waving her hand. They stepped back from
the scaffold as the Queen repeated on her knees
the first lines of the psalm—In thee, O Lord,
have I put my trust.” Blindfolded, Mary felt
for the block, muttering as she stretched out
her once admired neck, “In thee O Lord, do I
put my trust, let me never be ashamed.” The
blow was then struck, which brought to a close
a life, which in spite of its frailties, will con-
tinue to touch through all time the hearts of
Scotsmen. It may suit the jaundiced genius of
Froude to depict Mary as a monster of iniquity,
but ordinary people will prefer to admire the
Scottish Queen, while the memory of Elizabeth
will forever be black with the murder of a sis-
ter. 
	N. W. MACLEOD.


Mrs. May Wright Sewall urged in behalf of
woman suffrage, at a recent convention:  First,
that working for woman suffrage commits
one only to a belief that the ballot should be
granted to women, and does not involve one in
the endorsement of any opinion which may be
entertained by leaders of the suffrage move-
ment upon any other question.  Second, that
the doctrine of evolution fortifies the expecta-
tion of the discovery of hitherto, hidden
spiritual forces, as well as of hitherto hidden
physical forces.  A generation that has found
a subtle, invisible vapor hidden in the pores of
deep buried rock, which can heat and light the
world, ought not to be incredulous when as-
sured that the capacities hitherto undreamed
of are discovered in the little-explored in-
tellectual and moral nature of women.


20	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City. Utah.

Salt Lake City,	-	-	July 1, 1887.


[Column 1]﻿
THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	The delegates appointed by the people to frame
a State Constitution for Utah met and organized
preparatory to taking hold of the work yesterday,
June 30 at 12 m., in the City Hall in this city.
The national flag was artistically draped over the
stand, and a white star fringed with gold and
decorated with stars and stripes immediately
above; on the white ground in red and blue “Utah
a State.” Large maps of Utah hung on either
side of the stand. After a temporary organization
and report by a committee on credentials, a per-
manent organization was formed and Hon. John
T. Caine was elected President by unanimous
vote of the convention. Hon. E. G. Wooley of
St. George was elected First Vice-President, and
Hon. J. T. Hammond of Cache Co. second Vice-
President, Heber M. Wells Secretary, and Robert
W. Sloan Assistant Secretary. The President,
Mr. Caine addressed the Convention first thanking
the assembly for the honor conferred upon him,
and expressing his appreciation of their confi-
dence, and the hope that he would be able to dis-
charge the duties of the position to their satisfac-
tion. Mr. Caine then stated the object of the Con-
vention and gave his views upon the position of
Utah and the needs of the people in regard to
representation in the general government, and
particularized the rights of the people and alluded
to the grievances and the disadvantages under
which the people of the territories labored as to
representation; his speech was calculated to
arouse ardent enthusiasm in the members, and
stimulate them to active efforts in order to ensure
success in the undertaking for which they had
come together from all points of the Territory. He
closed his speech with, “Let us be diligent, care-
ful, untiring and devoted to this cause, and our
reward will be in the shouts of “victory,” which
will greet the enrollment of Utah on the records
of the nation, and her star shining on the flag of
our country, gleaming with the loyalty and devo-
tion to this glorious republic of a freed grateful
and happy people.” During the speech Mr.
Caine was frequently greeted with cheers and
applause.  Heber S. Cutler was nominated as
messenger of the Convention and elected. There
was some discussion in regard to the oath being
administered to the delegates and officers of the
Convention, but it was finally put to vote and carried.
Hon. F. D. Richards offered the opening prayer.
An oath was then read which included all the pro-
visions of the Edmunds-Tucker test oath. Final-
ly after some considerable discussion in reference
to the oath, it was amended to conform to the reg-
istration oath adopted by the Utah Commission
and was then taken by the officers and members
of the Convention. A motion was then made by
John E. Booth of Provo, that the Constitution
adopted by a Constitutional Convention, April 27,
1882 and by the people, May 22, 1882, be taken as
a basis on which to work. The motion was
carried. Hon. James Sharp presented a resolu-
tion for the appointment of several committees to

[Column 2]
proceed with the work methodically and the reso-
lution was adopted. The convention then ad-
journed until to day, July 1st.
     There is an intense interest among the people
upon the subject of this convention. It may be
considered by some as a bold stroke under exist-
ing circumstances, but desperate needs require ex-
traordinary exertions and it is a time in the his-
tory of Utah that deserves the best efforts and the
richest thoughts of the best people and the wis-
est methods of the greatest statesmen to direct
the movements made by the people, to frame a
constitution that will admit Utah and bring about
prosperity and security of rights guaranteed by
the parent government. The people who have
settled these valleys deserve recognition and such
independence as statehood can give; under a 
territorial government the people are not free and
equal with those in the common sisterhood of
States, they have not the same general rights and
privileges, and it is not at all remarkable that
those born and reared here in this mountain re-
gion should partake of the strength and power, if
it may be so termed, of “the everlasting hills that
surround them,” and grow restless under such
treatment as they have been made to feel under
Territorial rule.
     In a state there is much greater opportuni-
ty for development, for the sort of government
under which the people of Utah have lived is only
a little removed above servitude; they have had
no voice in choosing the leading officers, but com-
pelled to accept such as were “sent unto them,”
and obliged to submit to that petty sort of tyranny
which to great minds is most unendurable. Utah
will hail with gladness the dawn of her liberation
from such an inferior position, and her people are
most certainly equal to the occasion of her as-
cending into the position she is so abundantly
able to fill, that of a free and sovereign state.


A SYNOPSIS of the Conference of the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake prepared
for this paper has been crowded out but will ap-
pear in our next issue. Also minutes of the Sis-
ters Conference in Box Elder and other stakes.


[Column 1]
	PRIMARY MEETING AND FAIR.

	On Tuesday June 28, we attended the Primary
Annual Meeting and Fair in the 17th
Ward Schoolhouse.  Mrs. Julia C. Howe is the
active and efficient President of that association.
She is assisted in her labors by Mrs. B. W. Smith
and Ella Dallas, who are intensely interested in
the instruction of the little people.  There were
quite a number of visitors present.  The meeting
opened with singing by the children, “’Tis meet-
ing day;” they seem to have had excellent train-
ing in music.  Prayer by Sister Sinah Bishop;
singing, “Around the throne of God.”  Minutes
of last annual meeting read and adopted; pro-
gramme exercises; Questions upon baptism by
Coun. Dallas, answered by the children; Recita-
tion, Maggie Snell; do. Ellen Kimball; Song
Gwendoline, May, Mabel and Ethel Lewis, ex-
ceptionally well rendered.  Bible Sketch of the
Prophet Daniel, Freddie Alder, read by his sister
on account of his absence; Alice May
Farr; Recitation, Nellie Howarth; Song,
Minnie and Maude Pratt; select Reading, Clara
Groesbeck; Recitation, Libbie Rich; Recitation,
Nellie Dwyer; Music, Battle of Waterloo, given
by little Gwendoline Lewis in fine style; Essay on
Tithing by little Sadie Smith, who was sick and
not able to attend, was read by President Howe,
who also made some remarks, giving items from
her experience since having charge of the associa-
tion.  Brief addresses to the children were made
by Sisters E. C. Clawson, M. I. Horne, S. Bishop,
Z. D. H. Young, M. A. Hyde, E. B. Wells.
After these sisters had addressed the meeting and

[Column 2]
singing Love at Home, a presentation was made
by Coun. Dallas to Sister M. Y. Dougall, who
for several years had filled the position of Coun-
selor in the association.  The memento was worked
on canvas and handsomely framed containing the
words, “To Counselor Mrs. M. Y. Dougall a small
token of love and esteem from the members of the 
Primary Association, Salt Lake City, June 1887.”
Bendiction by Sister B. W. Smith.
     The articles on exhibition at the Fair made a 
very nice showing and commended the exertions
of all interested.  Geneve Ellerbeck aged eight,
an etched splasher; Julia Howe the same age do.
Nellie Howarth aged eleven, Libbie Rich nine,
Annie Price nine, Julia Grow twelve Minnie Pratt,
thirteen, Barbara Brown eleven, each an
etched apron.  Sadie Wilmot a wreath
of hair, aged eleven; bouquet of 
flowers framed, Annie Mary Farr aged twelve, Mot-
toes in frames Ellen Lundell nine and Ada Eller-
beck twelve, globe of wax flowers and plush key
rack Tessie Williams six years old, vase of wax
flowers Ada Davis nine, vase of wool flowers
Jennie Davis eight, lovely embroidered toilet set
red plush Etta Keeting eleven, two cloth and
plush embroidered tidies Elsie Burrows ten,
crochet tidy Julia Holst 12, crochet mats and
tidy Belle Baker thirteen, canvas and creton tidy,
Clara Groesbeck eleven Louie Groosebeck
eight; Canvas and ribbon tidy Cathie Dougal
eight; sideboard scarf in silk etching, Clara and
Louie Groesbeck; Sateen and creton bag, Josie
Batie 12; wool mats, Susannah Rich eleven; do.
Libbie Rich nine; crochet woolen skirt, Julia
Howe nine; doll in pink satin and lace bonnet,
dressed by Ada Farmer eleven; do. in pink muslin
dress and satin bonnet Katie Dwyer ten; do. pink
muslin dress and lace cap by Maggie Brown;
book mark by Elvira Lundell; a doll's chair made
and painted by Master Murvin W. Davis twelve;
patch work, hand sewing nine blocks, May Lewis
eight; and four large ones by her twin sister, Mabel
Lewis; bottle of cherries tumbler of jelly and
sponge cake by Stella Jacobs nine; a doll's bed-
stead dressed complete, bed-tick, sheets, pillows,
do. slips, spread and pillow-shams made of seventy-
two pieces of embroidery, by Gwendoline Lewis.
     After the meeting the counselors and invited
guests accompanied the President, Mrs. Howe, to
her residence where the most delicious refresh-
ments were served in a tasteful manner, and after
partaking the ladies were invited to the parlor to
join in social conversation; finally by common
consent, a hymn was sung, “O my Father” etc.,
being chosen as appropriate and prayer was offered
by Sister Zina D. H. Young; brief remarks were
made by the sisters who seemed specially blest
with the Holy Spirit; after an hour or two spent 
in sweet communion, a benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Horne, and the company dis-
persed feeling they had been mutually blest in
thus assembling, and in blessing Sister Howe who
had so kindly given them this pleasant interview
in her beautiful and peaceful home.


THE OLD FOLKS EXCURSION.
	
	The bulwark of the Latter-day kingdom. The
veterans of republicanism had tendered to them 
a treat long to be remembered, which all partici-
pated in, with joyful hearts. Nineteen cars trans-
ported from Salt Lake City as good a lot of peo-
ple as can be found anywhere on the earth. The
weather was favorable, no high wind to break the
enjoyment, no accident to mar the peace of anyone.
The iron horse labored hard to move its precious
load to the city of enjoyment, Ogden, where
teams were in readiness to take all participators,
to the park.  The sprinkling carts had laid the
dust; all was fresh and green. Tables were spread,
laden with earth’s bounties; a rich feast for all.
The Relief Society of the different Wards in
that city had their tents and stoves arranged to


supply each table, and their corps of young ladies
attentive, courteous and obliging to those at table,
with willing hearts and smiling faces. Bless their
willingness to make the aged happy, and bless the
older sisters who took their part in the heat of the
day to add to the comfort of the aged in their en-
joyment. When all parties were supplied at the
table with plenty to eat and drink, an invitation
was extended to those 70 to 80 and 90 to go into
the Pavilion. The singers gave joy to the hearts
of all with their soul inspiring music like the rip-
pling streams of rivulets. Thanks to their kind
exertions to brighten and smooth the rugged
paths of declining years. The Pavilion’s stand
was honored with the noble, generous and true
men of God, who ever seek the happiness of those
in advanced years, from whose lips fell words of
inspiration, that gave new impetus to age, and
cheered the tottering step and strengthened the
feeble limbs. May blessings rest upon their labors
of love, and as they have honored their predeces-
sors so may they be honored.
	A variety of presents were given to the oldest
ones, such as easy chairs, hats, canes, dress pat-
terns, collars, brooches and other articles. May
the donors never want in basket or in store. May
the blessings of safety rest upon the train that
carried those precious ones.  May that engine re-
tain its propelling force and perform its mission
to carry souls in safety. While seated in the train
going north, cake and lemonade was passed around.
Returning, candy, lemonade and cake was passed
around in plenty for all, and, in fact, there was
nothing wanting to make the excursionists happy,
and their enjoyment complete. Thanks to the
Old Folk’s Committee, the Governor of Utah, and
all who took part in making the old folks feel well
and happy. And may there be many returns of
the days of such jubilees to our worthies who
have borne the heat and burden of the day—our
aged fathers and mothers.
	A partaker of Salt Lake City Ogden's do-
nated bounties. Synopsis.


21	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOME DAY.

Some day I shall be dead;
Some day this tired head,
With all the anxious thoughts it now doth know,
Shall be laid low.

This body, pain-racked, ill,
Shall lie at length, and still,
Under the clover and the wind-swept grass,
Nor hear you pass.

That were indeed strange sleep:
When—even you—might weep
And come and go—even you—unheard of me
As bird or bee!

Nay, sweetheart, nay!—believe
There is no cause to grieve;
One so wayworn, so sore opprest,
Is glad to rest.

Perchance when that release
Hath wrought its spell of peace,
O’er this unquiet heart long vex'd with woe—
Hearts-ease may grow.

Who loves me will not weep
When that I lie asleep,
But rather joy to think such sorrow may
Have end some day.
	HELEN HUNT.


[Column 1]	
	LOUIE.
	I loved her as a brother might love a sister—
for such indeed she seemed—and in her eyes I
was almost as a brother.
	I had known her from childhood, and in our 
hearts there dwelt a mutual sympathy.  There was
an affinity between us, enabling each to realize the
other’s feelings, and, though a gulf of years di-
vided us, it was spanned by an arch of congenial
thought and emotion.

[Column 2]
	She used to say she “liked” me, because I never
treated her as a child. I could not have done so,
had I desired; she was more than a child, even in
her childhood. It was an intelligent spirit that 
looked out upon the world through the dear, beauti
ful eyes now closed in death.
	She was as good as she was beautiful. Amiable
in disposition, affectionate, with a heart full of
sympathy for the sorrows of others, and a spirit
of sublime self-sacrifice for those she loved, she
was gifted with a magnetic charm, a power of at-
traction, that drew all souls in her direction.
	Naturally confiding, to those for whom she
cherished friendship or affection—though silent
and secretive when need be, and to many reti-
cent at all times—she inspired and drew forth the
confidence of others.
	Her soul was sensitive and refined. She was a
natural lover of the good, the true and the beauti-
ful. Fond of music, poetry, and painting, and
talented withal, she became their ardent devotee,
and, from the treasury of her heart and mind,
brought forth gems of melody and beauty. Her
voice in song was like the music of murmuring
waters, sinking or swelling in its deep tenderness,
like the rise and fall of a gentle billow.
	She was a child of faith, a daughter of religion.
Her aspirations were spiritual. Her dreams were
sparks of prophecy from the flaming forge of in-
spiration.
	Her’s was the poet’s temperament; her’s like-
wise the poet’s dual doom—the power to feel in-
tensely, joy or sorrow, pleasure or pain.
	There are souls so sensitive, so refined, so deli-
cately organized, that to them an unkind word is
equal to a blow; the prick of a pin almost equiva-
lent to a dagger-thrust. Such souls seldom linger
long in mortality; the tension is too great; though
the delicate strings, while they last, upon these
human harps, oft fill the world with immortal
harmony. Save God give added strength, they
cannot long endure the rough sweep of the world’s
harsh hand; tuneless and shattered they perish,
passing early to that spiritual life, that higher
sphere, for which they seem best fitted and de-
signed.
	It is always sad when a young life dies. The
death of the aged is as the setting sun, the day’s
heat and toil being over, and weary nature sighing
for rest; or, as the falling of the tree which has
borne its last fruit, put forth its final blossom, and
whose withered, sapless trunk is already crumb-
ling to decay. But when a youthful spirit takes
its flight, it seems more like the sun’s eclipse, ere
reaching the zenith of its years; or like the prema-
ture blighting of the tree, just budding forth in
strength and beauty.
	This is the mortal view.  But a higher than man
is the Judge. We can not doubt His wisdom,
question His mercy, or sit in judgment upon His
justice. Nor, till we rise above the clouds that
overhang us here, and reach the summit of the
bright hereafter, can we see clearly the mysteries
now hidden from our view. Some time we shall
know all.

	“But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart,
	God’s plans, like lillies, pure and white unfold,
	We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
	Time will reveal the calyxes of gold.”

	Louie, let us believe, had finished her life—had
fulfilled her mortal mission. She suffered much,
and had much of joy, in the few, brief years allotted
her; and perchance, by reason of her sensitive na-
ture, her power and capacity to feel, was able
to acquire, in a limited period, what many might
linger long years to obtain. Time and experience
are not synonyms.

	—“A thought—
A slumbering thought is capable of years,
And curdles a long life into one hour.”
	
“We live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths;
In feelings, not in figures on a dial.”
[Column 3]
	Let us hope she gained that experience—the
cream of which comes by suffering—the education
for which she left her eternal home, to learn,
in life’s mortal school, lessons not to be learned
elsewhere.
	Farewell, Louie! That all is well with thee, no
one will doubt who knew thee. God called thee
home; thy soul is in His keeping; thy future in
the hands of Him who “doeth all things well.”
	May we meet before the Father’s throne, to re-
new, in realms of rest and happiness, the tender
ties that bound us together here, and linked in
chain imperishable our immortal spirits, ere Time’s
billow rolled upon the ocean of Eternity, or our
little lives were launched forth like bubbles that
gleam and burst upon the bosom of the wave.
	A brother’s hand lays this brief tribute upon
thy bier.						   O. F. W.


MASS CONVENTION,
		SALT LAKE THEATRE.
	In accordance with the call from the Terri-
torial Central Committee the citizens of this
county assembled en masse in the theatre, at 12,
m. The building was well filled. Col. J. R.
Winder Chairman of the Ter. Cen. Com.
called the assembly to order, and nominated
Hon. James Sharp as Chairman. Mr. Sharp
was elected with applause. He thanked the
audience, and stated that sovereign statehood
was the object of the movement. Hon. F. S.
Richards moved that a secretary, two vice presi-
dents and an assistant secretary be elected.
The following gentlemen were nominated and
sustained by vote of the meeting. Judge E.
A. Smith, Secretary, Mayor F. Armstrong,
First Vice President, Hon. C. D. Brinton,
Second Vice President, H. G. Whitney, Assist-
ant Secretary. Prayer was offered by Bishop
O. F. Whitney. The band played, Hail
Columbia." H. G. Whitney read the Call for
the Convention, and Hon. John T. Caine, with
some appropriate remarks, moved that a com-
mittee of seven be appointed by the chair to
select names to be placed before the Convention
as delegates. The Chairman named as Com.
on Nom.: Hon. John T. Caine, Col. T. J.
Webber, Judge Adam Spiers, Dr. H. J. Faust.
E. Holman, O. S. Clawson and A. E. Hyde,
After the Committee had retired, speeches
were called for, and the following gentlemen
responded to the call by briefly addressing the
assembly: Hon. F. S. Richards, Le Grande 
Young, O. F. Whitney, J. F. Wells, J. H.
Moyle, R. W. Sloan and Andrew Jenson.
	Hon. F. S. Richards said the object of the
convention had been fully stated. His heart
was in the measure, and his soul was full of
patriotic pride in the oldest and most populous
Territory coming forward and asking recogni-
tion in the Union! For more than 37 years
the parent government had partially borne the
expenses of the Territorial government. It
was their sincere desire and moral duty to step
forward and assume their own responsibilities.
The Territory was now able to take her own
part. Several times had she asked for admis-
sion, but never were her prospects as bright as
to day. The change would bring new blessings
and responsibilities. These will be conditions
such as the youth receives on attaining his
majority. The additional responsibilities would
be more than compensated for by the powers
and advantages. Statehood was to Territorial
government as was mature manhood to irre-
sponsible childhood. Utah had outgrown her
condition of infancy, and was prepared to take
her part in the national government—the great-
est government on earth. Every additional
state gave greater power and prestige to the
nation. The end of the nation's growth was
not yet; it would be as much greater as was the
nation greater to-day than 100 years ago. There


[Column 1]
was no truer, more loyal or more patriotic peo-
ple than those represented here to-day. They-
should demand equal rights and equal responsi-
bilities with their fellow citizens, and should
bring both a constitution that would be a char-
ter of equal liberty to all. 
	The band played, "The Star Spangled Ban-
ner."
	Le Grande Young was then called for and
said he was heartily in accord with the present
movement. Ever since he had been old enough
to understand the difference between a Terri-
tory  and Statehood he had desired the latter
condition, and he knew that was the sentiment
of the great majority of the people, many of
whom had been anxiously wishing it for the last
 forty years. Thirty-nine years ago the people of
Utah, then called Deseret, framed a constitu-
tion and asked admission. This was before a
territorial government was formed, and the
feeling then was as patriotic as it could possibly
be to-day. The first thing the Pioneers did in-
dicated their true feelings. They came to this
land then in a foreign state, and raised the
stars and stripes. The constitution they then
adopted was worthy of support to-day.
	O. F. Whitney was then called, and was
greeted with cheers and applause. He said the
call was totally unexpected, for he was not a
political speaker. He realized, however, that
he would be recreant to his position as an
American citizen, if he failed to respond. He
was no orator, but he could at times speak his
mind and place before his hearers his sentiments
on the things that lay next his heart. One of
his favorite themes was the beauty and glory of
 the institutions of America. He loved them
with his whole heart. He was a descendant of
some of those whom God raised up to found
this government, and he was in hearty unison
with any movement inspired of God to secure
our rights in this great government raised up to
benefit the human race. It would be a slander
on the Almighty to say there was any intention
in His heart to limit these blessings to any
handful of people or any one nation. Princi-
ples are eternal, having their foundation in
Him, who is the father, inspirer and the pro-
tector of the good and pure and patriotic
everywhere. This nation's principles are of the
leaven destined to leaven the whole lump of
clay which we call mother earth. Every
movement for liberty, every shackle stricken 
off was a step in the purpose of the Almighty
for the emancipation of the human family.
James Russell Lowell, an American poet and
statesman, had voiced the speaker's sentiments,
and the sentiments of every patriot. Says he:
		"Is true freedom but to break
		Fetters for our own dear sake?
		And, with leathern hearts forget.
		That we owe mankind a debt?
		No! True freedom is to share
		All the chains our brothers wear,
		And with heart and hand to be
		Earnest to make others free.

		"They are slaves who fear to speak,
		For the fallen and the weak;
		They are slaves who will not choose
		Hatred, scoffing and abuse,
		Rather than in silence shrink
		From the truth they needs must think;
		They are slaves who dare not be
		In the right, with two or three."
	The speaker invoked the blessing of the Al-
mighty upon all movements for the bettering
of the condition of the human family. May
God defend the right and overrule this action
for our good and His own glory!
	Junius F. Wells, Esq., came forward in
answer to calls from the audience. He felt
deeply the importance of the step being taken
to-day for the emancipation of the people of
Utah. In times past the applications of the
people for admission, made on five occasions,
were passed by. But the people had grown
[Column 2]
and some time their power must be irrestible in 
this demand. The speaker believed that time
had come, and that Utah would be welcomed
into the sisterhood of States. Her people had
every neccessary qualification, and should be
found at the door. If they ask it would be
given; if they knock it will be opened to them.
	Jemes H. Moylǝ, Esq., next responded to the
call. He had been born in Utah's vales, an
American citizen. There was no privilege
upon which he looked with greater honor. The
results of the labors of those who founded
Utah were great, so great that she was now en-
titled to statehood. There were elements of
disunion here as well as elsewhere, but these
were such as were natural to humanity. Utah
had within her borders the resources to make
her one of the greatest of the States in the Union.
Now, on the approach of the nation's natal
day, there was the opportunity to move for-
ward to the liberty commemorated on that day.
May the people uuite in celebrating the birth
of this the greatest and freest of the nations of
the earth.
	Robert W.. Sloan was called for and said he
knew of nothing that could be urged against
statehood for Utah. He did not believe there
was anything of that nature. He was heart
and soul in the movement, and would support
it with all his power. Here was the foundation
of a State that would be the peer of any
that now bore that title. A great
commonwealth had been built up by those who
came to Utah in early days, for the good of
the present generation, who should benefit by
it. He wanted the rights of every man recog-
nized in the Constitution. He believed Utah
would be admitted, but whether she was or
not, her people would know they were right,
and that ultimately the right would win.
	Andrew Jenson, Esq., said his feelings were
in accord with the movement. He had been
born in a foreign land, and when, in his boy-
hood, he read of the great republic of America,
it filled his heart with joy. Many of the peo-
ple of Utah had come from the Scandinavian
nations; but they were not Scandinavians to-
day, but American citizens, honest and true.
They expected to remain American citizens
and to sustain American institutions. He
could not be silent in this great movement, and
pledged himself to support it.
	Hon. John T. Caine, of the committee on
nominations, submitted the following report:
	The Com. on nom. submitted the following
list of names of Delegates to the Constitution-
al Convention to be held in the City Hall on
Thursday, June 30, to represent Salt Lake
County.
	James Sharp, Wm. Riter, John T. Caine,
Samuel P. Teasdel, Franklin S. Richards, Le
Grand Young, Elias A. Smith, Richard Howe,
L. S. Hills, John Clark, Samuel Bennion, An-
drew Jenson, Francis Armstrong, Feramorz
Little, Junius F. Wells, John R. Winder.
	Your committee also suggest the following
alternates to act in the event of a failure of any
of the principals.
	James H. Moyle, John C. Cutler, O. F. Whit-
ney, Thomas W. Jennings.
	On motion, the report of the committee was
adopted, there being but one vote in the nega-
all were elected.
	The closing prayer was offered by President
Angus M. Cannon.
	The assembly then gave three rousing cheers
for the new State of Utah, and dispersed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			WEBER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Weber Stake of Zion was held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Thursday, June 16th,
1887. uuder the direction of President Jane S.
[column 2]
Richards. After singing, prayer was offered.
by Prest. L. W. Shurtliff, and the minutes of
the previous conference were read and accepted.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards said she was very
much pleased to see so goodly a number
present, for she felt the Spirit of God was here
to-day, and would be richly given to all who
sought for it through faith and prayer. Was
delighted to have Sister Zina D. H. Young
and Sister Harriet Snow, President of R. S. Box
Elder Co. with us again; also highly grati-
fied to have Sister Herrick with us again after
her long absence from our midst, and trusted
that all would accept and appreciate the good
counsel these sisters may impart.
	Sister Janette Bingham felt to thank the
Lord for all good, and to live only for the up-
building of His Kingdom here on earth. If
we had met to-day to be filled with His Spirit
our prayers would be surely answered.
	Prest. L. W. Shurtliff felt to rejoice in meet-
ing with the sisters always, and was truly proud
of the great and good works which they are
constantly achieving. Referred to some inter-
esting remarks which he heard Apostle F. D.
Richards make in regard to the sisters visiting
those who are cold and indifferent as punctually
as those who are sick, for by so doing untold
good would be accomplished. Prayed God’s
blessings to rest upon all.
	Sister Zina D. Young asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of all present. Spoke of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and some of his
grand and glorious teachings to the sisters in
the early scenes of the Church. Said, “As he
Government has now disfranchised us we can
speak with perfect freedom on the pure and
holy principles of the Gospel.” Gave a pleas-
ing account of her attendance at the reunion of
President Heber C. Kimball’s family. Felt
that these days are the best we have yet seen
on earth, and if we could banish from our
midst the spirit of fault-finding we would then
know perfect happiness, and more nearly be-
come as the Son of Man. Prayed that the
teachers might continually be filled with the
Spirit of God, and speak words of wisdom to
all whom they might visit.
	Elder D. H. Peery said the time was when
he firmly believed the teachings and teachers
of this Church were all wrong, but through
the faith and long-suffering of his wife, all
these ideas were changed. Knew the hearts
of womankind, as a rule, are purer and nearer
God than are those of men. “Through our
union only will all malice be overcome, and
through our prayers would we attain unbounded
success.” Spoke of the great danger of our
sons and daughters marrying those not of our
faith. “If we are indifferent to and rebellious
against those things which we know God has
revealed, He will surely bring us low and hum-
ble us to do-His will.”
Sister Harriet Snow, Stake President of Box
Elder County Relief Society, was pleased to
meet her sisters in this county, but felt her ina-
bility in speaking to them. Desired to be
humble, meek and pure before God, so as to
discern the whisperings of the still small voice,
and thus be enabled to overcome fear and
the many trials we are called to pass through.
Prayed for the spirit of peace and union to be
with all the societies in every county and ward
in this land.
	Sister Sarah Herrick was very thankful to
again be associated with her sisters. Knew we
could not half appreciate the society and sym-
pathy of our brethren and sisters until we are
deprived for a time of the same. Desired to
live righteously before the Lord, and thereby
gain His approval and blessings.
	Elder Maycock felt that an individual inter-
est should be taken in the different organiza-
tions of this Church, and a spirit of love and
charity be cultivated in our midst. Prayed
God’s blessings to rest upon all the sisters in
ich abundance, and to give them renewed


[Column 1]
strength and energy in their various labors.
	Prayer was offered by Elder Saunders, and
meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p.m.
	2 o’clock p.m.  Meeting came to order by
singing, “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by
Bishop R. McQuarry.   Singing, “There’s, a
feast of fat things.”
	Elder Joseph Stanford being requested to
make a few remarks, felt to respond willingly
in this as well as all other calls, for in so doing 
could he obtain the Spirit and blessings of
God.  Referred to the remarks of Sister Zina
Young and others, and of the good that must
follow if their instructions were only treasured
up and carried out.  Admonished the sisters
to speak all good of one another, and to seek to
build each other up by faith and good works.
	Sisters Widerborg and Bickington bore faith-
ful testimonies to the truth of the Gospel, and
desired that all the sisters might live to be
worthy of the greatest praise and honor from
their sons and daughters, and to teach them
every principle of the Gospel in all purity, by
observing the same in our daily lives.
	Sisters Randall and Yearsley felt determined
to follow in the footsteps of righteousness un-
til the end should come, and seemed greatly 
filled with the Spirit of God, and the gifts 
and blessings He so kindly bestows.
	Coun. Hattie C. Brown always enjoyed meet-
ing with the Saints of God, and was proud
that she had a standing with them in His
kingdom; felt to praise the Lord for the many
gifts and blessings He bestows upon us.
	Sister Harriet Snow said she had been a
member of this Church for more than forty
years, and had never yet doubted one principle 
of this, the everlasting Gospel, but felt stronger 
and more determined to live them than ever
before. Advised the mothers to set good ex-
amples in their homes as well as in their socie-
ties.  Said that in the county over which she
presided there was one branch of Lamanites,
which was in a prosperous condition,  The sis-
ters of that branch were doing all in their
power to learn the principles of cleanliness and 
industry, as well as those pertaining to the Gos-
pel.  Prayed God to bless us inasmuch as we
live according to His teachings.
	Sister Zina Young read a revelation given
through Joseph the Seer, in Harmony, Susque-
hannah Co., Pennsylvania, July, 1830, which
was both interesting and instructive.  Said if
nothing more than the words contained therein
had been heard to-day, there was an abundance
to be remembered and carried out.  Advised
the mothers to read the Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants often, and live accord-
ing to their teachings.  Quoted the saying of
the Prophet Joseph’s: “Don’t climb on to the
extreme branches of the tree, for there is dan-
ger of falling.  Cling close to the trunk.”
Thought it would just as appropriately apply
to any one of us to-day.  Thanked the sisters
for their liberal donations to the Hospital, and
admonished the sisters to live purely, so that
they could officiate in the ordinance of washing
and anointing the sick, and to labor earnestly
with the young to instill the principles of the
Gospel in their hearts in all purity, so they will
not stray away from the fold.
	Prest. J. S. Richards said Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith sent her love and blessing to all
the sisters in this county, and hoped to enjoy
their society in conference again.  Then Sister
Richards asked if the sisters all felt to sustain
Sister   Eliza R.   Snow   Smith, as     their
President	to      carry     out   all        her
teachings and put in practice her instruc-
tions and exercise our faith, and that we may
have her with us again as we have had many
times in the past, and to sustain her, also, as
the President of the Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in all the world.  The vote was unanimous.
[Column 2]
After singing and prayer, conference adjourned
for three months.
				MATTIE A. CANNON
					Sec. of Weber Stake

			RIVERDALE
	The Young Ladies’ Quarterly Meeting was
held at the residence of Sister Martha Bingham,
May 19th, 1887, there being a large number
present.  Prest. Russell conducted the meeting,
which was opened by singing.  Prayer was
offered by Sister Bybee, and singing again.
After the reading and approval of the minutes,
an interesting programme was rendered.  The
manuscript paper, “The Young Ladies’ Instruc-
tor,” edited by Julia Child, was read.    Our
paper still continues to show a marked improve-
ment by the articles contributed for it.   Lizzie
Stimpson and Annie Stratton sang a song well
worthy of notice; next a dialogue by five mem-
bers, entitled, “Woman’s Mission.”
Prest. Russell was pleased with the pro-
gramme, and encouraged the sisters in respond-
ing when called upon.
	Sister Stanford said she had listened with
interest to the programme. “The Lord will bless
the young sisters in their endeavors to do good.
We come here to improve, and should heed the
counsel of those who are placed over us.  It
seems to be a warfare sometimes to do just as
we should do, and as the Lord would have us
do; we often want to go our own way.  We will
comprehend this more as we get older.  The
more family we have the more necessity we see
in trying to lives of righteousness.  If we had
obeyed the good counsel given to us years ago,
in regard to home industry, we would to-day
have been more independent than we are; but
we must all learn these things by experience.
I feel that the Lord is helping us, and with all
our imperfections we are the most favored peo-
ple upon the earth, and are greatly blessed by
Him.   I often think though we are worldly
poor, we are rich in the blessings of the Al-
mighty.  Urged the sisters to use a good influ-
ence and heed the instructions of mothers and
teachers, and sustain their President, and have
love in their hearts for each other.
	Sister J. S. Richards thought that we had all
come to meeting to have our minds refreshed up-
on the principles of our religion. Had enjoyed
the exercises and hearing the testimonies of the
sisters. “We cannot be happy if we have dis-
order and disunion in our midst, for we all have
failings, but we must overlook them in each
other, and look at the good qualities we possess.
Although we claim to have the Spirit of the
Lord with us, we are sometimes led astray and
we do wrong; but we must forgive and we will
be forgiven.  If we wish to be true Latter-day
Saints we must believe all the principles of our
religion, and be prayerful, so that we can claim
the blessings of the Lord.  We should try to
set good examples before our children, and help
them along, for they will have many trials and
temptations to pass through.  If we see ex-
amples that are not good we must not follow
them.   When we have the light of the Holy
Spirit to guide us we feel happy; we only need
to put our trust in the Lord and we will have
no fear.   We must improve step by step each
day that we live, and press onward.”
Sister Monch had enjoyed a good spirit in
the meeting.   Was pleased with the exercises,
and with the paper in particular, and compli-
mented the sisters on what had been written.
We should try to improve all the time in writ-
ing, and also in reading.   We should not seek
improvement from books alone, but call upon
the Lord to aid us with His Spirit.” Thought
the sisters could wield a good influence in so-
ciety, and should ask God to help them to do
so, and the young ladies should hold a good in-
fluence over the young men, for there are a
great many ways in which young men are
tempted to go astray, and the influence of a 
[Column 3]
young lady may do a great deal of good. “If
we ask the Lord to bless us in our afflictions
He will send comfort to our hearts.  We must
expect to go onward and improve our time
while we are here, and try to fill the mission
that we have on this earth acceptably before
the Lord.”
Sister Shreeves said, “There are a great many
temptations placed before the young, and the
young ladies are apt to be led astray by out-
siders, and they will sometimes unite in mar-
riage with those who are not of our faith, and
the result is they will lose the influence of the
priesthood and the spirit of their religion, and
in afflictions they realize their true position, for
they cannot expect the blessings and comfort
they would receive in listening to counsel and
marrying those in the faith.   Our young ladies
should be very careful whom they select as a
husband, and choose one whom they can claim
both in this life and the life to come. We
must be humble and prayerful, and obey the
commands of God, so that when trials come
upon us we can call upon Him to bless us and
we will be comforted.  It is necessary for us
all to have a testimony for ourselves, and
then we will be more able to withstand the
trials of life.”
Bro. Thompson said he could see that the
sisters are doing a good work.    We should
all have a desire to see this work press on-
ward; we should improve every opportunity
that we have to speak.
	Sister Martha Bingham prayed for the Spirit
of the Lord to assist all in doing good and
trying to overcome evil and be united in all
things.
	Coun. Julia Child hoped we would put in-
to practice the good instructions that we had
received, and prayed that the Lord would
bless us in whatever we attempt to do.
	Coun. Jennette Parker felt thankful to God
for His blessings day by day, and Eliza W.
and Sarepta Child each bore testimony to the
truth of this work, and hoped we would profit
by what had been said, and strive to fulfill our
respective callings appropriately.
	Nellie Child bore her testimony, after which
Prest. Russell made some closing remarks, in
which she urged all to practice what we had
heard, “for it is not the amount that we hear
that will benefit us, it is the amount that we
practice.” Realized a great responsibility rest-
ing upon her as president, but she placed her
dependence in the Lord.   Thought the Spirit
of the Lord had been in our midst, although
Satan was trying to destroy our good works.
	Sister Dye reported the Primary Association,
as being in a fair and prosperous condition.
Singing, “Lord, dismiss us,” etc.   Benediction
by Maria Russell.
			ELIZA W. CHILD, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.
	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York,Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CHANGES IN RELIGION.
That Missionary Bible and tract funds get
	ting Low, Secret Societies compared with the
		Church.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Very great changes in religion that have oc-
curred at a recent meeting of The Tract Society:
In New York it came out that not half the 
tracts published last year could be given away,
and that the expenses were much greater than
the receipts.  The Missionary Society has by
their reports a falling off in cash of about
one third since last fall.  The more astute Mis-
sionaries who do not want to lose their jobs have
changed their tactics from soliciting money to
convert the Jews, etc., to money for missions—
to the Mormons.  One or two women have
made good hauls out of the bigots of the
Western Reserve in Ohio, but the whole busi-
ness of priestcraft is getting stale all over the
country.  The people are in advance of the
priests in intelligence, therefore do not need
them.   Many priestly plans have been tried to
prop up their failing power.
	A large convention of clergymen, of nearly
all denominations, met in Chicago last fall, and
unanimously resolved to exclude from the
church all members of secret societies.  The
question is, which is most useful, the church 
membership or these societies?   What are their
fruits and relative cost and benefits?   There
lately resided in Corry a physician who paid
to the Methodist church regularly a considera-
ble sum, aggregating thousands.  A few years
before his death he paid a less sum to a benevo-
lent secret society. After his decease his widow
was called on to help pay a debt the church
incurred while he was a member and she
actually paid $5 from her scanty widow's mite.
The benevolent society to which they had paid
far less than to the church paid the widow over 
$2,000.
	There are many cases here and all over the
country where these secret benevolent societies
provide widows and orphans with a comfortable
support.  In no case have I known of any
branch of the church, Catholic or Protestant,
doing it.
	Sectarians say the church keeps up morality
and religion.   How?  The greatest and noblest
men of our age, Horace Greely, Lincoln, Sena-
tor Wade, Wendell Philips, Parker Pillsburg,
&c., were never connected with or guided by
any church; yet they had a morality and re-
ligion higher than church creed.   In Corry the
chief merchants, bankers and business men 
are not church members.   But no one can tell
who is a church member and who is not by
dealing with them on account of any special
integrity of character.  Some are good men
and women and some are not, just like non-
church members.   The divine Father of all
has stamped in our souls the love of justice.
Churches are only machinery to develope and 
bring it out.   They are not religion any more
than plows and hoes are agriculture.  They no
more make the love of religion than bakers or
meat dealers make the love of bread and meat,
or the sheep shearers make wool.  They don’t
raise the sheep they shear, or the lambs they
slaughter.  So many are living by the gospel
the work is overdone.   There is a superabun-
dance of so-called  shepherds and shearers.
Very few sheep with eligible fleeces are enter-
ing the folds.  The machinery of religion is
changing.   The beliefs of the dark ages, when
most of our orthodox theology came into being,
is for this reason not adapted to our age no
more than a child’s spelling book is adapted to
a Newton or the clothes of a babe are adapted
to manhood.  Religion is eternal; never was it 
so common.  Never had it so much care for
the unfortunate.   The secret benevolent socie-
ties are protecting the weak and helping the
[Column 2]
helpless. The best men and women in the
churches will help. The bigots should have
a corner by themselves, growing more and
more select and small as intelligence and re-
ligion increases.
						G. F. LEWIS.
	Corry, Penn., June 17, 1887.

	The article published above is from one liv-
ing outside in the world who knows the deceit
and hypocrisy of the professed Christian
Churches, but the Gospel as preached by the
Latter-day Saints is widely different from sec-
tarianism, and cannot in any sense be classed
with it.  As Latter-day Saints we should never
lose sight of the fact that our religion embraces
all truth whether found upon Christian or upon
heathen ground.   There have been great and
good men outside the churches in the world
and there have also been good and liberal-
minded men in the churches,but the best society
that was ever organized could not and does not
(we speak advisedly) do so much good as the
Gospel of Jesus Christ which is the power of
God unto salvation for all that believe and
obey the same and practise its precepts.
							EDITOR.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Michigan University. at Ann Arbor, cele-
brated its fiftieth anniversary in June.
	Agitation is the marshalling of the con-
science of a nation to mould its laws.”—Sir
Robert Peel.
	I talk ballot wherever I go, and more and
more. It is the way for the ransomed to pass 
over Jordan out of the wilderness into the
promised land.
	Mrs Jennie June Croly was tendered a recep-
tion by the New England Women’s Press As
sociation, at the Parker House, Boston, Satur-
day, June 18. It was a very pleasant affair:
	Mrs. Frank Leslie, now in Paris, will go to
the City of Mexico in September to arrange
for the publication there of a Spanish-Ameri-
can newspaper.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	The following Resolutions of Respect for our beloved
President, Mrs. Elizabeth Clifton, who was born August
23rd, 1822, and died at Wallsburg, April 27, 1887, after
many years of snftering, which she bore with great fortitude
and patience.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to remove
from this sphere of action our beloved President, Sister
Elizabeth Clifton, we feel that we have lost an efficient officer
of our society, a kind neighbor, and loving sister, and
while we deplore her loss we feel to bow in humble sub-
mission to Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved That we extend to the sorrowing family our
heartfelt sympathy, and trust that they will feel to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in this visitation, that she is not
lost but gone before.
	Resolved That a copy of these resolutions be sent
to the bereaved family, that a copy be placed on our society re-
cord, and that one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication. 
		She suffered more than.three score years,
			And her deliverer has come, 
		And wiped away his handmaid's tears,
			And taken his exile home.

		Her aching head has found a rest.
			Let us prepare with her to meet,
		No cares disturb her peaceful breast
			The time is short she has to sleep.
						POLLY MEECHAM,
						ESTHER DABLING,
						ELIZA THOMPSON,
						SUSAN GARDNER,
						LUCINA M. BOREN,  Sec.,
								Committee.


R. K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES  & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
