VOL. 16.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1888.		No. 15.


﻿APOSTROPHE.

To the liberated Spirit of Zion's late Prophetess and
				    Poetess.
			ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
	Suggested by the Singing of "Oh! My Father."

		Free from this most “frail existence"—
			Free to lay “this mortal by"— 
		Free to span the starry distance
			To the "royal courts on high."
		Ransomed spirit! deathless essence!
			Hie thee hence to realms so fair;
		Gain thy "Father's radiant presence;"
			Greet thy noble "Mother there."

		Now renew "the recollection
			Of illustrious friends and birth;"
		Glory in thy Lord's affection;
			Triumph in thy Chieftain's worth.
		Drink the fill of joys supernal,
			By continual virtues won;
		Wear thy crown of life eternal,
			While unceasing cycles run. 

		Holiness, akin to beauty,
			Stamped thee with a marvelous seal;
		Powerful was thy sense of duty,
			Irrepressible thy zeal;
		Counselor so true, so able;
			Ready to relieve distress;
		The afflicted and the tempted
			'Twas thy ministry to bless.

		From thy lips fell words of wisdom,
			Pure as pearls, or grains of gold;
		Far and wide the same have rooted,
			Yielding many a thousand fold.
		Far and wide thy inspirations
			Are "a joy" in these last days;
		Zion's numerous generations
			Lovingly repeat thy praise.

		"Take thy needed recreation;
			"Slumb'ring minstrel," softly rest;
		Thou shalt raise to emulation
			Many a muse by care oppressed.
		Lo, thy steadfast, pure example
			Shall a bright incentive prove;
		Leave thy power-inspiring "mantle"
			To the Zion of thy love.
				    		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
    		Salt Lake City, Dec. 8th, 1887.


﻿NEW YEAR’S MORNING.

Only a night from old to new!
	Only a night, and so much wrought!
The Old Year’s heart all weary grew,
	But said: “The New Year rest has brought."
The Old Year’s heart its hopes laid down,
	As in a grave; but, trusting, said:
“The blossoms of the New Year’s crown
	Bloom from the ashes of the dead.”
The Old Year’s heart was full of greed;
	With selfishness it longed and ached.
And cried, “1 have not half I need.
	My thirst is bitter and unslaked.
But the New Year's generous hand
	All gifts in plenty shall return:
True loving it shall understand;
	By all my failures it shall learn.
I have been reckless; it shall be
	Quiet and calm and pure of life. 
I was a slave; it shall go free,
	And find sweet peace where I leave strife.”

Only a night from old to new!
	Night and the healing balm of steep!


﻿Each morn is New Year's morn come true,
			Morn of a festival to keep.
		All nights are sacred nights to make 		
			Confession and resolve and prayer;
		All days are sacred days to wake
			New gladness in the sunny air.
		Only a night from old to new: 
			Only a sleep from night to morn,
		The new is but the old come true;
			Each sunrise sees a new year born,
											H. H.

As the dead year is clasped by a dead December,
	So let your dead sins with the dead days lie.
A new life is yours; and a new hope:  Remember
	We build our own ladders to climb to the sky.

Hvae you missed in your aim?  Well, the mark is still 
	shining;
Did you faint in the race?  Well, take breath for the
		next;
Did the clouds drive you back? See yonder their
		lining;
Were you tempted and fell?  Let it serve for a text.

It is never too late to begin rebuilding, 
	Though all into ruins your life seems hurled;
For look!  The light of the New Year is gilding
	The worn wan face of the bruised old world!
						ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


A CHRISTMAS STORY.

	About the year one of the Christian era, as
the Gentile nations compute time, a virgin
lived; she traced her descent from ancient Israel,
who have continued to count time from the be-
ginning of creation. The name of this chosen
vessel of the Lord was Mary, and before she
was born the prophets spoke of her as being
the mother of the Savior; and they also prophe-
cied of one that should come to prepare the
way before Him. Mary had a cousin, her
name was Elizabeth, and they were both of the
same lineage. These two women were pure
and holy in conduct and conversation. Mary
was the youngest, and had not been married
when my story commences, but was engaged
to a good and devout man by the name of
Joseph; he also was of Israel, and descended
from the tribe of Juda, one of the twelve sons
of Jacob, by his wife Leah. We read in
Matthew, 1st chapter, of Joseph, the intended
husband of Mary, that his descent came down
through Solomon. And we read in Luke, 1st
chapter, "That a certain priest named Zacharias
of the course of Abia and his wife, was of the
daughters of Aaron, and her name was Eliza-
beth." Now Abia was the grandson of Solo-
mon. By tracing this descent it makes John the
Baptist and the Savior, or their natural fathers,
Zacharias and Joseph, related, as well as
Elizabeth and Mary; Elizabeth was of the
daughters of Aaron; who were of the tribe of
Levi, and Levi and Juda were own brothers;
these four persons would be related by blood.
Elizabeth and Mary were women highly fa-
vored of the Lord. The angel Gabriel was 
sent direct from the presence of the Father to
inform them of the birth of their children, and
named them before they were born; their pre-
existent state was fully defined, and their
missions here were fore-ordained, and their lives
sacrificed to save a fallen world.
	Before John the Baptist was born, there
were great promises made to his father con-
cerning him. He was told by the angel that
talked with him in the temple of the Lord,

[column 2]
“That he should have joy and gladness and
many would rejoice at his birth.” That he
should be great in the sight of the Lord, and
should not drink wine nor strong drink, and
should be filled with the Holy Ghost from his
birth, and many of the children of Israel he
 would turn to the Lord. The Savior said of
him, “That he was the greatest prophet that was
ever born of woman.” His office was to bap-
tize the Son of God, and also to baptize all
those who repented of their sins and brought
forth fruits worthy of repentance. Elizabeth
was filled with the Holy Ghost before her son
was born; Mary, her cousin, paid her a visit
and staid with her three months, and they re-
joined together in the things of God, that had
been made known to them through revelation
from on high.
	Joseph and his wife, Mary, went to the city
of David to be taxed, and while there the
Savior was born, and as there was no room for
them in the inn they slept in a stable, and the
Savior of the world was dressed in swaddling 
clothes and laid in a manger. And in that
country shepherds were there watching their 
flocks by night, and the angel of the Lord
came to them, and said for them not to fear,
they had brought them good tidings of great
joy, that should be to all people. "And there
was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
host, praising God and saying, 'Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace, good-will
toward men. For unto you is born, in the
city of David, a Savior, which is Christ, the
Lord.' "
	Christ, the Son of Mary, was born in Bethle-
hem, in the land of Judea; wise men came from
the east to worship the babe of Bethlehem, for
they had seen a particular star, that indicated
He was born, and they inquired at Jerusalem
where he was; and when King Herod heard
the wise men tell about the star, he inquired
when it appeared, and sent them to Bethlehem
to find Jesus, that he might kill him, for he
really believed that Jesus would be King of
the Jews, and thought that he would be de-
throned, and he pretended to those wise men
that if they found Jesus he would worship Him
also. And they went at the King's command,
and, lo, the star that they had seen in the east 
went before them, till it came and stood over
where the young child was. When they saw
the star they rejoiced exceedingly.
	The writer of this dreamed she saw the star
in the heavens; the sky was dense, but over-
head, deep, beyond in a circular space, formed
a beautiful star, circle formed the center of it
and the painters touched the outer extremity,
and its colors were like the rainbow. I was en-
tranced; my gaze was steadfast; I watched it
until it gradually faded away, and a personage
slowly came to view, dressed in priestly robes
of pure white, feet and ankles bare; his head
was toward the West and feet to the East, as
he took the place of the star in the circle.
These were the only objects I saw in the hea-
vens. I thought this was the star that would
appear before the Savior's coming, and that
was His appearing in like manner. It reminded
me of that passage of Scripture, "That every
eye shall behold Him." I know I felt like
those wise men from the east. For days after
I had seen this, I rejoiced in the heavenly in-
fluence that shed itself through my whole be-
ing, which I cannot easily forget or describe.
	And when these wise men found the young
child and His mother they fell down and wor-


shipped Him; and they opened their treasures
and presented unto Him gifts; gold and frankin-
cense and myrrh.  The first gifts were pre-
sented to our Lord and Savior in His childhood,
and when His natal day rolls round, let us 
present to him a pure heart, like the gold, with
no alloy, purified from all dross; and when we
offer gifts to one another on Christmas day, let
us remember, that as each Christmas succeeds
another, we are approaching nearer the time
when He will appear, to give good gifts unto
those who ask Him in faith and keep His com-
mandments.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec 14, 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	OUR LESSONS.

	Well, since this life is a school, preparatory
to the next stage of action, we would ask,
“What is our lesson for to-day?”  Well, I
hardly think the old lesson of being as “wise as
serpents and harmless as doves” has been
studied and reduced to practice sufficiently to
take a new one.
	We find when we are associated with those
who measure themselves by the same pattern
and live by the same rule as our Savior, we
think we are progressing finely. But suddenly
some tinsel show attracts our attention, and,
being fond of the beautiful, our attention is
held, until we are charmed by its harmless and
beautiful appearance. We ask ourselves, may
we not grasp the golden prize?
	We soon find, by making a desperate effort
on our part, and perhaps making a sacrifice of
something else, that the prize is ours. We feel
happy for a moment that our efforts were
blessed in obtaining it. Suddenly a disap-
pointed feeling comes over us; this prize does
not afford true and lasting comfort; it is fleeting
and transitory, like all other worldly treasures,
unless put to usury.
	We turn our eyes within, and ask, “How do
I stand in the sight of my Heavely Father?
It seems that my feet are sinking to the under-
current. Was this indeed the wisest course
to pursue? Will the result be all that I de-
sired?”
	This may be a profitable lesson for the future,
but in reality of no real worth when compared
with the riches of eternity.
	Jesus, the Savior of the world, taught His
disciples what those riches were. In applying
your mind to those riches, you will soon find
how much nobility of character you possess.
Narrow, contracted minds cannot grasp the
glorious truths or comprehend them, because
the mind must be prepared by the existence of
the divine nature. Yes, the gift of the Holy
Ghost to truly conceive their real value, and
enable you to act in sincerity of heart. The
Lord requires those who worship Him to do it
in sincerity and truth.
	Jesus once said, “Those who love anything
more than me, are not worthy of me.” This
passage was repeated not long since in the pre-
sence of a lady, who remarked, “Well, I know
the Lord does not expect me to love Him more
than my baby boy, whose sweet prattle and
bright eyes take my whole attention. He
could not expect me to love one I do not see,
as I do my boy. Surely that love is pure and
heavenly, because the object of my love is
pure.” But how is your parental love? Your
parents loved and cherished you as fondly as
you do the boy. How many years have they
been your guardians, shield and protectors,
teaching you virtuous, honorable and upright
principles, to save you from vice and ruin, and
keep your feet in the paths of joy and peace?
Their experience and intelligence, which they
gain from time to time, is always kept in re-
serve for your benefit; you can go to them for
counsel, which will benefit you, because of their

[Column 2]
age and experience; they are qualified to teach
you in many things.
	Could you be so ungrateful and so short-
sighted as to neglect to give your best affections
to god-like and honorable parents, whose whole
soul is interested in their offspring, to comfort
and bless and lead their minds on to true in-
telligence? We are naturally lovers of intelli-
gence, especially when combined with wis-
dom to govern and control the affairs of
families or associations.
	How much gratitude do we owe, then, to our
Heavenly Father, the head of all science, the
ruler of the universe, who gives unto all their
agency; to seek knowledge from Him, or
otherwise, as we choose. I think the love we
have for a superior, who is properly apprecia-
ted, is greater than that of an inferior, although
it may be a dear child. I would not say it
was not most pure; however, for children are
pure, and, oh, how important that they always
remain the same.
	I greatly admired an illustration of Prest.
Heber C. Kimball’s. He spoke of a friend of
his who was going up the river to visit a rela-
tive; he took a skiff and plied the oars manfully,
until he came in sight of his relative’s residence,
when he began to feel quite exhausted, and
said, “I must rest; I can see the house, and will
soon be there.” Accordingly, he laid down his
oars, laid himself down also, and dropped off
to sleep; when he awoke he found himself far
below the starting point.
	“This,” said he, “is our position to-day. We
are going up stream against the current of
popular opinion. Yes, as much so to day as
when this Gospel was preached by Jesus, our
Savior.” He remarked, “This is our situation
to-day. We gain strength by exercise; not by
over-doing or over-reaching, but by caution,
and carefully applying the oars and developing
the little strength we have to-day, we can, if
we observe the word of wisdom, gain renewed
strength from the fountain.” These are lessons
which we, as a people, have proved to be bene-
ficial, especially when we realize that this is
the dispensation of the fulness of times, when
all things which have transpired in ages past
will again appear.
	Believing this, we hope to see the human
family return to their sober senses in the near
future. I believe a portion of them will have
the humility to see themselves as they truly
are, dependent upon an alwise Father for every
faculty, both mental and physical, which they
possess. There are a few of this class living
among the masses to-day; there are others who
realize they have good abilities and can arrive
at great attainments through these faculties,
yet their vanity causes them to think they
know enough to judge the world.
	Well, St. Paul once said that we are as sub-
ject to vanity as the sparks which fly upward.
This vanity, you will see, is a great detriment,
because it hinders us from making the improve-
ment we would otherwise make, when we are
more childish and humble.
	We are looking forward to a time when the
human family will see themselves as they
truly are in the sight of their maker. Did
they see themselves to-day they would not re-
ject the message sent them to prepare for the
second coming of our Savior.
	I would compare them to little children with
their Christmas toys. They enjoy them so
well, they will not heed the call of their
parents to put them by and attend to some-
thing of more importance. No, this they call
cruel and a great sacrifice of their feelings.
While some are reckless and wayward, others
are obedient, having more filial love and venera-
tion for their parents.
	Now, I would ask, which will make the
greatest progress and become the most useful
man? Who will comprehend the designs and
purposes of an alwise Parent so readily as a

[Column 3]
faithful and dutiful child? May we prove to
be one of this number.
	M.  E. KIMBALL
	Nov. 28th, 1887.


LETTER FROM OHIO.

DEAR MRS. WELLS AND OTHER MORMON
SISTERS:
	I was told the other day by an acquaintance,
that my “Mormon friend, Eliza Snow is dead,”
and he said that notices of her death were in
all the Cincinnatti papers. I did not see the
notices but I felt very much saddened to hear
of it. One’s life is made up of regrets, at
least my life is. I shall always regret that I
never had a fuller acquaintance with “Sister
Eliza,” as you all so lovingly called her.
	She was a noble, a wonderful woman, it
seemed to me, and I shall now always think
of her as being in heaven with the many who
were “first at the sepulcher,” and as always
busy and happy. I have been reading Miss
Phelp’s books lately and heaven seems to me
more like a real place, and that we shall know
each other there.
	One by one the older ones of your Church
are going to the other home. I wonder what
the future of the peculiar people will be. I
have long intended to write something for the
EXPONENT, but my time is so entirely used up
with home duties; and the public disregarding
the fact that children growing up into woman-
hood and young manhood increase the calls
upon a mother s time, makes many demands
upon me, which as a mother, a woman, I can-
not refuse to respond to. There is work in
church and moral movements for women now,
God grant we may all do our work faithfully.
How much I should like to have known Miss.
Snow personally, and how I should like to know
you all. May peace and love be with you here,
and everlasting joy in the home beyond is the
wish and prayer of your sister,
						EMILY SCOTT.
Dec. 18, 1887.


CHESTER ITEMS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Because the Chester Annual Primary Fair
held here a few days ago was such a joyous oc-
casion I write a few details.
	Stake President, Sister Helena Madsen, and
a Miss Wickham, favored the Fair by their
presence and most excellent remarks.
	The juveniles did wonders in making
things, the result of the inevitable jack-
knife from the little chair,through agricultural
implements, wagons, etc.
	Nor were the little ladies behind in the
dainty needle work, in all sorts, and sweet
culinary productions, and it was a real pleasure
to take their dainties so pleasingly offered you.
And Emma the president fairly bubbled over
in ecstacies as her little ones vied with each
other in song and recitation. Allusion was
made to Prest. Petersen’s suggestion of a
lOcts. subscription  by each member of the
Stake Primary the full name of each subscriber
to be recorded in the Temple Record.
	In response to this the little ones sent up
$9 45 in cash; also 25 yards of most excellent
rag carpet and a beautiful floral and animal
rug the labors of the deft fingers of the “little
toilers.” When you consider our limited set-
tlement the few who take hold of these things
“it was more than ye all” besides it is a most
gratifying evidence of the new regime of this
place.
	H.
Dec. 17, 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RARITY.

In dreams I found a wondrous land
Radiant with roses on each hand.

No grasses, trees, nor shrubs were there.
But roses blossoming everywhere.

Great velvet-petaled blooms were these,
Red millions trembled in each breeze.

They swept towards the horizon's verge
In many a splendid ample surge;

They spread on all sides, one intense
Monotony of magnificence.

Then suddenly, where my pathway ran,
Loomed the vague presence of a man.

And in his clasp, with strange delight,
I saw one daisy, glimmering white.

Such daises bloom in slender sprays
By throngs among June’s meadowed ways.

Yet all my soul at this weird hour,
Leaned out to that one simple flower.

For chastity, delicately fair,
And better still, supremely rare,

It won a pastoral charm so sweet,
This lovely lissom Marguerite.

That seeing it was like dear repose
To me, whose whole heart loathed a rose.—
	SELECTED.


HOW WINNRTH LIBEETY AND THE
	LEADER.

Hail to the leaders of men, the sovereigns by grace of God,
Who flinch not and fear not to venture where none before
	them have trod!
As lightning unsheathed from the clouds to chasten the
	pestilent air,
As fire running swift through the sere-wood, their spirit
	shall heaven prepare.
Lo, the armed leader alone! But soon not single he
	stands;
Not quicker sown teeth of the dragon sprang up in militant
	bands
About the great founder of Thebes than rallying legions
	arise,
And circle a leader of men, and lift his loved name to the
	skies.
Then, whereso he biddeth them strike, there draw they
	the glittering blade,
And whereso he biddeth them pause, the tide of the battle
	is stayed;
The field being won, he teaches how victors should temper
	their pride;
The field being lost, how Truth and the Right beyond
	ravage abide.
Few are the leaders of men, yet many the liegemen they
	draw; 
Fire of the courage in one, chill fear in a thousand shall
	thaw!
Still, as of old, Miltiades' trophies drive away sleep,
Still at the parle of the trumpet, hearts responsive shall
	leap:
Wherefore we follow our leaders, and well! yet cannot dis
	cern
How they whom we follow exultant are also led in their
	turn.
But surely, unseen is their chieftain, no plume streaming
	white in their van,—
Ah, surely, unseen is their chieftain, and ever a greater
	than man!
We move as their watchword commands, but a watchword
	more potent they hear;
The clang of the battle for us, for them music aerial-clear!
So  he who drank poison at Athens still heard the sweet
	voice of the law,
As the wild Corybantes the flutes of their deity listened in
	awe.)
They follow a deathless Idea;—leader of leaders for
	aye.—
That liveth, and wageth its strife, though we remain but a
	day;
That chooseth the man most fit, and setteth him foremost
	in fray.


Hail to the leaders of men, who know and their leaders
	obey!
Yet we too, the liegemen,—we too, though our sight ex
	ceed not a span.—
Follow a deathless Idea clothed in a puissant man.
	From the poem by
	EDITH M. THOMAS.


THE OLD YEAR’S BLESSINGS.

I am fading from you,
	But one drawest near,
Called the angel guardian
	Of the coming year.

If my gifts and graces
	Coldly you forget,
Let the New Year's angel
	Bless and crown them yet.

For we work together,
	He and I are one.
Let him end and perfect
	All I leave undone.

I brought good desires,
	Though as yet but seeds;
Let the New Year make them
	Blossom into deeds.

I brought joy to brighten
	Many happy days;
Let the New Year's angel
	Turn them into praise.

If I give you sickness,
	If I brought you care,
Let him make one patience
	And the other prayer.

Where I brought you sorrow,
	Through his care at length
It may rise triumphant
	Into future strength.
	
If I brought you plenty,
	All wealth's bounteous charms
shall not the new angel
	Turn them into alms?

I gave health and leisure,
	Skill to dream and plan;
Let him make them nobler
	Work for God and man.
	
If I broke your idols,
	Showed you they were dust,
Let him turn the knowledge
	Into heavenly trust.

If I brought temptation,
	Let sin die away
into boundless pity
	For all hearts that stray.

If your list of erros
	Dark and long appears,
Let this new-horn monarch
	Melt them into tears.

May you hold this angel
	Dearere than the last--
So I bless his future
	While he crowns my past.
	ADELAIDE A. PROCTOR.


[Column 1]
AN INTERESTING DREAM.

The following panorama passed in prophetic 
view before my slumbering eyes last night:
My attention was attracted by a funeral
cortege in the street, moving quietly westward.
First, there comes the hearse, bearing the hon-
ored dead, followed by many carriages and
horsemen, and last of all an imposing file of
men on foot, dressed in common everyday attire.
Onward the slow advancing mass of souls pro-
ceeded, and at every corner where a street in-
tersected, other retinues came up and fell in
with the procession, until with its miles of
length it seemed interminable.  In the begin-
ning there was no sign of flags or arms, and no
music, but as the vast concourse swept
solemnly on, it was suddenly discovered that
each man had shouldered a glittering bayonet;
and all at once the American flag, deeply
draped and hanging at half mast, waved
gloomily at short intervals over the moving
spectacle.  Everyone stepped regularly, and
with a tread almost tender, to the soft beat of
muffled drums.  Many were weeping and all
were sad.
	Then, suddenly, out from the impressive
silence, from the thousands of oppressed hearts,
rose in harmonious chords a song, and I heard
distinctly these words, sung in the beautiful
tune of “Sweet By and Bye:”

“In the sweet by and bye,
We will bow under tyranny no more;
In the sweet by and bye,
We will bow under tyranny no more.”

The chorus was sung over and over again,
and though sweet and soft, it rose to such an
enthusiasm that the very heavens seemed to
catch up the melodious refrain and sang in con-
cert.  The time was afternoon, serene and
bright.  All at once, a greyish light, as of
twilight, began to settle over the people, and
the sky so clear and fair a moment ago, began
to darken, and finally changed to ebon black-
ness.  Still I could see the immense train of
people, going forward with bowed heads, wav-
ing their banners aloft, singing in mutual sym-
pathy that same solemn, mysterious chorus.
	Then in the zenith appeared a circular open-
ing, the size of a large wheel, apparently, and
a division--twelve divisions, equal and regular,
--took place in the darkly shrouded sky, be-
ginning at the circle, and running downwards
along the sky to the verge of the horizon.
Each one of the separate divisions now began
majestically to move its sable folds, then formed,
in color and shape, into a flag, which appeared
heavily creped, and hung at half mast, drooped
to the earth and touched it.  The top of the
staffs, on which were fastened the twelve flags,
met the circle at regular sections.  Just on the
interior of the circle glowed these words, “The
twelve tyrannies.  Tyrants, beware!”  The
words were formed of letters written with
golden fire, that seemed to burn and crackle
and cintillate with their very intensity of 
meaning, and glittering serpents ran rapidly
up and down along the tracery of the letters,
hissing as they went.
	The blackness of the crepe was deeper upon
some of the flags than others; on the American
flag it was the blackest.  On another it was only
a dark dull grey color.  All the flags but that 
of my own country were strange to me, but
they represented distant nations.  The govern
ors and nobles of the earth, as spectators,
looked on the strange scene aghast.
	While up in the wide dark vault the flags
in their terrible beauty waved ominously to
and fro, and the gleaming letters above them
trembled and quivered under the mad rage of
the darting serpents, and the voices below con-
tinued in grand imposing chorus, the grey twi-
light air hanging directly over the people 
changed to a blood red light; earth and heaven
seemed to murmur, and a voice in the air said,
“Liberty is dead!”
A RESIDENT OF SALT LAKE CITY.
Thursday, Nov. 10, 1887.


Silence is the sanctuary of prudence.
	Though a lover be never so great an orator,
yet a kiss on the lips of his beloved is often
more eloquent than all his fine speech.—J.
Bodenham.
	Faith, though weak, is still faith, a glimmer-
ing taper if not a torch; but the taper may give
light as true as the torch, though not so bright-
ly.—H. Muller.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1887


[Column 1]

A HAPPY NEW YEAR!

	The new year always brings with it a feeling of
joy, as the departure of the old one leaves sadness,
we throw it off in the dawning of the new, as we
cast off an old garment we have worn and don the
new, scarcely knowing whether it will serve us as
well as the old one, and yet it is with some little
satisfaction we take on the new.
	The new year is a time of fresh resolves to al-
most all the world of mankind; in whatever work
one is engaged, the wish is generally felt if it is
not expressed, may this year now just entered
upon be a more prosperous and a more propitious
one than the last. In this feeling the literary
worker, and especially the journalist, shares very
largely. We find it noticeable in almost all our
exchanges, and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT feels
most strongly the necessity of greater success in
the undertaking of the work on hand. The de
pression among the Latter-day Saints, in conse-
quence of the crusade against this people, the
many bonds, imprisonments and exiles, and the
circumstances of the people generally, has had its
effect upon the paper, and most severely, too. The
women of Zion should feel a sufficient degree of
interest in their representation to support a paper,
and it certainly gives them both influence and
prestige, as well as helping to develop the talent
of women for writing, and in this connection we
can safely affirm that it has been instrumental in
bringing out and aiding, not only young women,
but young men as well.
	We look back with a slight degree of pride
(laudable we think), to the first published writings,
both prose and poetry, of some who have since
made a mark and attained to some distinction in
home literature.
	The EXPONENT contains sketches of the lives
and peculiar experiences of some of the most
noted women who ever lived, and a complete re-
cord of organizations of the Relief Society, Young
Ladies' Associations and Primary Associations in
all the several Stakes of Zion. It also has, from
time to time, published many original essays upon
various subjects, besides poetry or verse, that
has found its way into other newspapers and jour-
nals and young ladies' scrap books, not only in
Utah, but elsewhere.
	The EXPONENT is also a missionary abroad as
well as at home, and goes where it would be very
difficult for a "Mormon" Elder or a "Mormon"
woman even to gain admittance. And it sows the
seeds of truth, much as it may be despised, by
some and insignificent as it appears to many.
	During the past year alone hundreds of tourists
have called at this office to inquire concerning the
"peculiar people," and especially the "Mor-
mon" women. Looking over the register
book for the year 1887, there are recorded the
names of some very distinguished people, and the
list includes men and women from various parts
of the globe. At times there have been very
strong testimonies borne to strangers in this 
office, sometimes by Elders, but much more fre-

[Column 2]

quently by the sisters, and thus, also, much good
seed is sown; it may be as the Savior said of the
sower who went forth to sow:
	"And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the
wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them
up.
	"Some fell upon stony places, where they had
not much earth; and forthwith they sprung up, be-
cause they had no deepness of earth;
	"And when the sun was up, they were scorched;
and because they had no root, they withered
away.
	"And some fell among thorns; and the thorns
sprung up and choked them.
	But others fell into good ground, and brought
forth good fruit, some a hundred fold, some sixty
fold, some thirty fold."
	A little of this kind of sowing has been done by
the women of Zion through the EXPONENT, and
even this little is both precious and desirable.
	No more hearty or sincere congratulations can
be given by any, than we wish to express for our
readers and the women of Zion, and the women
of all the world, hoping for a brighter day and
fairer prospects, and that ere long the strong bands
of oppression that hold the Latter-day Saints in
bondage may be broken, and Zion arise and shine
resplendent in glory, the admiration of all the
world.


[Column 1]

NOTES BY THE WAY.

	Leaving Salt Lake City by the early south
bound train, on the 8th of December, fully antici-
pating Sister Z. D. H. Young's companionship in
the tour through Sanpete County, the disapoint-
ment of not having her society had a depressing
influence throughout the day, as one does not like
the responsibility of going out alone among the
sisters, when it is expected there will be two or
three together as it was in this instance; how-
ever, when the train reached Fountain Green
station, a carriage was in waiting, and Sister
Johnson welcomed the one lone visitor very cor-
dially, and we soon reached her hospitable home,
and, after a most excellent dinner, attended the
meeting of the Relief Society at the new brick
meeting house, Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson presid-
ing. We made it a point of having a verbal re-
port from the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. there, and at each place we visited when it
was not arranged to hold meetings with these or-
ganizations. After a pleasant evening at Sister
Johnson's, spent in conversation with several of
the sisters, who gathered there to talk upon the
principles of the Gospel and systems of work in
the Society, etc. we sat up late to write and send
home editorial matter for the paper, as every edi-
tor must do after occupying all the day with
other duties.
	The next morning drove over to Moroni with
Brother and Sister Clark; went direct to Bishop
Irons, where everybody goes to be entertained.
Meeting at half past one p. m., with the Relief So-
ciety, dear old Sister Jane Bailey presiding; and
at half past three the Primary Association assem-
bled, Sister Deborah Irons presiding. The chil-
dren rendered the programme prepared for the
occasion in a most creditable manner, and it must
be a great satisfaction to those who are interested
in the progress and spiritual development of the
little people of Zion, that these associations are
doing such good home missionary work wherever
they have been organized. Certainly those who
preside over the children, and who meet with them
every week,year after year,in all kinds of weather,
ought to have the faith and prayers of all Israel
in this noble undertaking.
	The following morning, Dec. 10th, went with
Bishop Irons and wife and Sister Gee to Mt.
Pleasant, where the Conference of the Relief So-

[Column 2]

ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake convened on
that day. The Bishop drove direct to the meet-
ing house, where we found conference in session,
Sister Mary A. Hyde presiding. Pres. Canute
Peterson and wife were present on the stand and
also sisters from several parts of the Stake; Sister
E. Allred, Counselor to Sister Hyde, Sister M.
A. Pritchett, Pres. R. S. Fairview, also Sister
Rebecca Tucker, Levee Terry and Sister Cheeney
from that place. The meeting house had been
handsomely draped in memory of the recent
death of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Sister M.
F. C. Morrison and Sister Madson, the local
Presidents, were both present. Most of the 
branches of the R. S. in the Stake were repre-
sented verbally at the Conference. At the close
of the morning session a large number of the
brethren and sisters took dinner at Brother
Peels, where ample arrangements had been made
and a regular Christmas prepared for the visitors
from different parts of the stake.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference was held in the
afternoon, Sister Helen Armstrong presiding. Be-
sides reports from the Associations and brief
addresses from several of those present, Miss
Olive Lowrey related her wonderful experiences 
during a long and tedious illness, and her manifes-
tations of the power of God in her being re-
stored to health. Her recital produced a thrill-
ing effect upon the congregation, and, indeed,
throughout the Conference a most excellent spirit
was manifest in all the addresses and teachings
given, and it seemed a time of refreshing from on
high.
	That night we stayed with our dear friends the
Morrisons, and on Sunday morning went with
Sister Leonard Jordan and son to Spring City.
We arrived in time for dinner, at the residence of
Sister Hyde, at the home of the late Apostle
Orson Hyde. Many recollections of his life and
labors are recalled in visiting his house in Spring
City, where he lived so many years and labored
among the people in that Stake of Zion, and where
at least, he laid himself down to sleep after a long
life of usefulness, or, as we believe, passed to the
Spirit world to proclaim the glad tidings of great
joy to the Spirits in prison there, and to join his
fellow laborers and co-workers who had gone be-
fore him to the other side.
	In the afternoon attended service in the ward
meeting house, Bishop Allred presiding. A re-
turned missionary occupied most of the time,
whose field of labor had been in the Southern
States, and who seemed to be inspired with the
spirit of his mission, and bore an excellent testi-
mony to the truuth of the Gospel. The sisters meet-
ing was held at the same place in the evening, Sis-
ter Mary Frantzen presiding. There was a
crowded house; many young people of both sexes
were present, and paid great attention to the
speakers. Monday morning, with Sister Hyde
and Master Royal Hyde, we drove over to
Ephraim, where, as in every other settlement. we
visited, we were very cordially greeted, and most
hospitably entertained. As a matter of course
we stayed at Pres. Peterson's, and thoroughly 
enjoyed the visit, not only with the President and
his good wife, but with the sisters who came to
visit us,during the time we were there, and whose
kindness will ever be remembered. There were
two meetings at Ephraim one of the R. S., in the
afternoon of Monday, Sister M. A. Hyde presid-
ing with Sister Sarah Peterson, her Frst Counsel-
or, and one of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the evening;
both were well attended, and seemingly much en-
joyed by all present.
	Tuesday, Pres. Peterson and wife, with one or
two other sisters accompanied us to Manti, where
meeting was held in the Council House in the
afternoon. Sister M. A. Hyde presiding, as is
usually the case when there are two or more lo
cal Presidents. Sister Rebecca Wareham, Prest.
of South Ward,and Sister Jane Casto President of


North Ward; each gave a verbal report, showing
the condition of the R. S. in the local wards. There
was also a report from the President of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Manti.
	In the evening we attended the bonjoint meet-
meeting of the Y. M. and Y. L. A regular pro-
gramme of exercises was rendered. The sub-
jects treated upon were interesting, and the asso-
ciation is no doubt making good progress.
	Wednesday morning, in company with Prest.
Maiben and his amiable wife, also Sister Alvira
Cox and the architect, Bro. Fulsom, we had the
pleasure of going through the Manti Temple,
which is now nearing its completion. No Latter-
day Saint can enter one of these sacred edifices
erected for the most holy ordinances, without feel-
ing inspired with e deep inward sense of the great
mission to be performed therein for the living and
for the dead.
	The same afternoon the two Primaries held a
joint meeting in the Council House, Miss Olive
Lowrey presiding. Brief notes of the meeting are
given in another column. While in Manti we
were entertained at Bro. Wareham's, where we
enjoyed our visit very much indeed. Their doors
are always open to the sisters who travel from
time to time in the interests of the organizations,
and the spirit of love and of peace overshadows
their habitation.
	Thursday morning, bright and early. Pres.
Peterson arrived ready to drive on to Mayfield.
The air was very frosty and the way was cold and
somewhat dreary; notwithstanding the goodly
company we couldn't converse much, on account
of the cold air.
	We reached Mayfield in time to keep the ap-
pointment made for eleven o'clock. Here we
found the sisters had a new Relief Society Hall,
which does great credit to the place and proves
their untiring energy and perseverance in good
works. Sister M. Olson presided, and the meet,
ing was well atteuded, a good spirit prevailing.
After partaking of a warm dinner, made more
agreeable still by the pleasant company assembled,
the party started for Gunnison, where there was
an appointment for three o'clock. Prest. Peterson,
having learned it was not safe to cross the river
the nearest way, had to drive several miles further
around, so that we were late in reaching Gunnison.
The meeting had already commenced, Sister
Helena Madsen presiding. The attendance was
very large. In one part of the hall the Primary
Association were seated, and it was evident they
enjoyed the instructions quite as well as the older
people. Verbal reports were given by the Pres.
of the Y. L. and P. A., and all seemed to enjoy
the coming together. Pres. Peterson gave out an
appointment for a special meeting in the evening.
The travelling party repaired to Bishop Madsen's
where we had a most enjoyable time. Attended
the evening meeting; Bishop Madsen presided,
but Pres. Peterson was the speaker of the occa-
sion. His remarks were well chosen, and cer-
tainly all must have been encouraged to persevere
in the path of duty, by the fatherly counsel and in
strnction imparted to them.
	Friday morning Bishop Madsen and wife and
Elder Metcalf joined the party, and we drove over
to Fayette. Meeting was appointed for 2 p.m.
Sister Jane Ann Bown presided. At Fayette, as
in all other places we visited, there was a warm
welcome for all the party. We stayed at Bishop
Bartholomew's, where we spent a very pleasant
evening with his interesting family and relatives.
Very early Saturday morning we left for Juab, and
reached there in time for dinner, and to caich the
train, reaching home at evening and finding all
well.
	The visit was in every respect a pleasant one,
and long to be remembered from the friendly
association and congenial companionship of the
brethren and sisters with whom we traveled, and
wherever we tarried upon the journey.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"JACK, THE FISHERMAN," by Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps, is a pathetic story of the net woven by
the demon alcohol to entrap the unwary. The
tale is told with a depth of pity and tenderness,
that should 'waken a responsive chord in the
heart of every person, to work for the rescue of
precious souls from the horrors of intemperance.
This little book is bound to be a powerful aid in
such a work. The price places it within the reach
of all. May it be widely read. It is pretiily
bound and fully illustrated. For sale at James
Dwyer's Book Store, price, 50 cts.


MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	Funeral services in honor of Sister E. R. Snow
Smith were held in the Nephi Tabernacle, on
Wednesday, Dec. 7th, 1887, at 12 o'clock, Prest.
Mary Pitchforth presiding. Choir sang,

	"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone."

	Prayer was offered by President Charles Sperry.
The choir sang,

	"Rest for the weary soul."

	Prest. Pitchforth said we had met to pay a
tribute of respect to our friend and sister, Sister
E. R. Snow Smith. She was The Elect Lady of
Zion, and was a noble woman, and she proved
herself worthy of the trust committed to her care.
Told of Sister Snow's kindness when the valleys
were first settled. "We mourn her loss and so-
ciety, but cannot help but rejoice that she re-
mained true and faithful." Hoped we would emu-
late her virtues and follow her example. She had
finished her work and gone to her reward, but she
would live in the hearts of the Saints forever.
"Every Latter day Saint owes Sister Eliza a tribute
of respect."
	Sister A. L. Bigler read from the Deseret News
a sketch of her life.
	Sister Maranda Bryan said Sister Snow had
lived a pure life. "We should try to emulate her
noble example."
	Sister Jane Picton said we had met on this
peculiar occasion to how our respect to the
honored dead. "Our sister was endowed with
precious gifts; her name is immortalized; she has
done much good in organizing, and we should be
grateful to our Father that she lived as long as she
did. May it be said of us when we have departed,
'They have kept the faith and been true to the
end.' " Singing,

	"Sister, thou wast mild and loveIy."

	Sister A. L. Bigler said all who would hear or
read of Sister Snow would respect her, and she
would live forever in our memories. She desired
to be humble and faithful.
	Sister Hannah Grover felt that no good word
that could be said was too much for Sister Snow.
She had gone home to her Father's house, and
there was rejoicing there. She knew that our Sis-
ter was the Prophet's wife when he was living.
She had been intimately associated with Sister
Snow in the Temple, and she loved to look upon
her beautiful face. "It would be well for us to
square ourselves and follow her example."
	Sister M. E. Teasdale felt incapable of speak-
ing on such an occasion. She loved Sister Snow,
and she highly prized a letter lately received from
her. She had gone to associate with her husband
and all the faithful Saints who had passed away,
and she thought there was great rejoicing when
she returned.
	Patriarch J. G. Bigler spoke of his early ac-
quaintance with Sister Snow, and of her integrity
under all circumstances. Spoke of her valuable
writings; said they were appreciated.
	Prest. Sperry told some interesting incidents
connected with his acquaintance with Sister Snow.
Said her name would be handed down to posterity.


"Let us emulate her example and make a success
of this life." Choir sang,

	"Creation speaks with awful voice."

Benediction by Bro. George Kendall.
		M. E. TEASDALE.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	At the residence of Mr. S. C. Dallas, the young
ladies of the 17th Ward Mutual Improvement As-
sociation held their regular meeting, Wednesday
evening, Dec. 14th, in the form of a surprise on
the Secretary, Miss Ella Dallas.
	President Julia C. Howe stated that the object
of the meeting was to do honor to the Secretary.
	Opened by singing, "Let us treat each other
kindly." Prayer by Sister Howe. Continued by
Singing, "Sowing." The following programme
was carried out:
	Miss Lizzie Smith presented the Secretary,
Ella Dallas, with a writing desk, completely fur-
nished, and a hymn book, both having the name
of the Secretary on them, and the following ad-
dress prepared and read by Vickie Clayton,
accompanied the presentation ot the same:

In behalf of the Y. L. M. I A. of the Seventeenth
	Ward, these sentiments are gratefully ex-
	pressed to the Secretary, Miss Ella Dallas.

DEAR ELLA:
	For five years past you have occupied the labori-
ous position as Secretary in our Mutuals, and have
been untiring in performing the many duties de-
volving upon you.
	At every meeting you have blessed us with your
presence and aid, always on time and at your post,
unswerving in the performance of your duties, and
striving to help those around you.
	It has ever been your object to spread sunshine
in the paths of the discouraged, to cheer the
hearts of those in sorrow, and to alleviate the bur-
dens of the depressed. From your noble charac-
ter, full of love, charity, sympathy, patience, and
others of those attributes which win love and ap-
preciation, we realize in you a faithful and valu-
able friend, and an example we will gain much by
following. We feel blessed by your presence,
and as sincere friends we desire to express our
feelings of gratitude and appreciation for the great
good you have been and still are doing for us.
	Accept, dear friend, this gift as a token of
esteem from us, and ever remember that no matter
where you may go, you will carry the love, respect
and best wishes of the band of sincere friends
with whom you have been associated in the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the 17th Ward.
	The friendship that has taken root in our hearts
for one deserving of so much good is eternal, and
our prayer is that you may live long upon the
earth, that the path of usefulness you have trod-
den in the past may be continued for many years
to come.
			VICKIE CLAYTON,
		In behalf of the Association.
	A song, with guitar accompaniment, was then
rendered by Lizzie Smith; Recitation by Priscilla
Smith; song, with guitar accompaniment, by Viola
Pratt.
	Sister M. Y. Dougall then made a few appropri-
ate remarks, endorsing the sentiments expressed
in the address, and felt that they were not over
estimated.
	Song, with guitar accompaniment, by Vickie
Clayton.
	Sister Ella Dallas then made a few remarks,
thanking the Association for the honors paid her
but she desired the good will of the members far
more than the gift.
	Sister Howe then endorsed the sentiments al-
ready expressed, and gave us all some very good
advice, especially in regard to health.


﻿Meeting then adjourned for one week, to meet
at Sister M. Y. Dougal's. Closed by singing
"Providence is over all." Benediction by Lizzie
A. Davis.
	Refreshments were then indulged in, and the
evening passed in a very pleasant and successful
manner.
		VICKIE CLAYTON, Ass't Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NEW YORK LETTER.

	January 1st, l888.
MY DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been so much engaged in humanitarian
work, that I have neglected to render due thanks
for your valuable little paper, although its interest
has not been lost, as it has made many friends to 
your associations,especially to the Mormon women;
it has opened the eyes of those who have perused
it to a better understanding of the Mormons' re-
ligious principles, which the general population
of the world does not understand. A few women
have been to Salt Lake City, for the purpose of
giving lectures on their return, and these only
falsified facts for a selfish purpose.
	Allow me to say, the contents of your little
EXPONENT are exceedingly entertaining. Among
the several weekly papers I receive, it is discussed
and treasured. Many ladies who have read it have
changed their ideas from horror to a friendly na
ture towards the Mormon women. The Constitu-
tional Convention is a wise movement at this time,
Utah should be free from slavery, and take her
place in line, with free and equal rights, as a
State.
	The Mormon people, who were driven from their
homes on account of their belief as a religious
sect, founded on the same book, and representing
the same principles as the various church sects
and creeds—but these various sects and creeds
have ever, disagreed from the first organization, of
divisions, from the time of the Christian dynasty.
	The rights of individual religions have
been fought, and the followers persecuted,
tortured and murdered as the Mormons;they have
been driven from their homes, through forests,
and over praries, and been hunted from state to
state, as though they were wild beasts of prey,
men pursuing them, and they fleeing before the
pursuers; women with infants in their arms and
young children following as they could, sleeping
at night in the wilderness, where wolves made the
night hideous with their howl, or on the praries,
where insects, serpents and lizards crawl around
them, still listening to the click of the rifle in the
hand of their pursuers.
	Alas! what do the priests, guides and Levites do
to-day under the term, free and independent na-
tional laws? Drive innocent religionists (like
those of the fifth century) fleeing in search of a
home and peace. They were cast into prison, and
shot even in prison walls, as though they were
wild beasts of prey. Such is orthodoxy, and yet
it is not dead; it still struggles to live, yet fast ap-
proaches its destination of death.
	At length they came out of the forest into a
desolate plain; no green grass, tree or shrub to
welcome them with a smile, or greet them with the
wave of a bough; the earth was crusted over, as
far as the eye could extend, with a carbonous
white substance, with a scattering of sagebrush,
the only indication of life.
	These persecuted people, citizens of a Republi-
can freedom and liberty, forced on, came to an
entrance between two massive, lofty mountains; it
appeared to them like a large gate thrown open
for their reception and protection, by the Great
Spirit whom they worship. Within this space
was no tent or cabin, no stream of the bright
sparkling water of life to refresh their weary and
torn bodies; they settled upon this desolate spot,
as the ancient Pilgrims who landed on our eastern

[Column 2]

shoresover two hundred years ago,who fell on their
knees on the Plymouth Rock, to give thanks for
their safe arrival; these people also fell on their
knees to render thanks for their escape from their
pursuers. Yet they have been persecuted in many
forms since, and yet are not free from persecution;
still they live, and have made that desolate land
bud and blossom as a full blown rose of many
colors.
	Please accept my best wishes, as ever,
			GENTILE FRIEND.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety ot Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, Dec. 13th, 1887.
Prest. Harriet Snow presiding. After singing
the hymn, "Once more we come before Thee,
Lord," prayer was offered by Coun. Widerborg.
Singing. "What was witnessed in the heavens."
	Prest. Hart iet Snow made a few opening re-
mark.
	Coun. Susannah P. Booth spoke at some
length upon the duties of mothers; encouraged
all to be energetic in performing all their
duties.
	Sister Hardy, from Willard City, reported
verbally. Spoke in loving terms of their
President. Related a dream; how the Lord
showed her to be contented in her circum-
stances.
	Sister Jensen, of Mantua, said: "We ought to
be satisfied with our lot wherever it is cast. I
used to think it ever I should share my home
and husbaud with others, it surely would kill
me, but now I have lived in the principle of
celestial marriage for eleven years, I find my-
self happy and satisfied."
	Sister Fannie Graehl: "I feel well to be one
with my sisters, and always feel that the testi-
mony of my elder sisters is true."
	Sister Albertsen of Bear River City: "I
have a testimony for myself; we should be true
and honest in all thiugs."
	Prest H. Snow moved we adjourn till 2
o'clock.
	Singing, "Come, come, ye Saints," etc. Bene-
diction by Prest. Mary Andersen.
	Afternoon session: Singing, "Praise ye the
Lord." Prayer by Emilia D. Madsen. Sing-
ing, "God moves in a mysterious way."
	Coun Widerborg: "The subject touched
upon this morning. the organization of the
Relief Society: is a grand one, when carried out
rightly." Related an incident to show how
much comfort we have received many times in
meeting together, in our trials Reported the
Scandinavian Society. "They have, by gather
ing together their small units, gathered from
the old country eighteen  persons. I am thank-
ful for every day we can feel that our whole
heart is in the service of God."
	Prest. Mary Andersen: "I realize that if we
have the Spirit of the Lord it matters not if
we say little or much; it will comfort some one.
If we earnestly search ourselves we will have 
plenty to do with No 1"
	Prest. Watkins spoke of the trying circum-
stances many are placed in at the present time,
and the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.
"Let us try to carry out the instructions she
has given us."
	Sister Cordon: "I am thankful that I have
a standing in this Church," Bore a strong
testimony to the principle of celestial marriage.
	Sister Susannah Facer: "My whole heart is
in the kingdom of God; we know we are in the
hands of the Lord; we know we are trying to
serve Him, and our enemies say we shall not,
but if we try to live right before the Lord
daily, He will stand by us; persecution is good
for us."

[Column 2]

	Bro. E. A. Box encouraged the sisters in
teaching each other; our duties to our children
cannot too often be mentioned; we should know
what kind of company our children are keep-
ing. "Let us be alive to our calling; when we
come in contact with one who is weak in faith,
let us sow faith where there is none, and reap
peace and happiness."
	Emilia D. Madsen made a few remarks; said
we should acknowledge the hand of the Lord in
all things.
	Bro. Wixum said, "In receiving the Gospel
we become initiated in the relationship of
Christ. Jesus said, 'Who is my brother and 
my sister? Those who serve me in righteous-
ness.'"
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing "O, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Susannah P. Booth.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the San Juan Stake, held at Bluff,
Dec. 4th, 1887, Prest. Jane M. Walton presid-
ing. Singing, "Joy to the world." Prayer by
Bishop Jens Neilson. Singing, "Torn from
our friends."
	Prest, Jane Walton made a few opening re-
marks; was glad to have the privilege of hold-
ing conference; would like to visit the several
branches in the Stake as soon as opportunity
offered; was sorry there was no one to represent
the different wards present.
	Minutes of the previous conference were
then read and approved, and the officers sus-
tained.
	Prest. J. M. Walton reported the Bluff
Ward; believed that there was a good feeling
among the sisters; she had full love and confi-
dence in them all; she hoped and trusted the
Society would prosper. Said that they had
money to buy grain, and hoped that some time
they would have a place to put it in. Spoke
of the principle of plural marriage, and said
she had a testimony for herself that it was
true.
	Prest. Josephine Wood reported the Prim-
ary of Bluff; said that the children were doing
as well as they could; felt willing to do all she
could to help them.
	Prest. Julia Butt said she had had no oppor-
tunity to visit any of the Primary Associations,
but thought they were doing well.
	Sister Betsy Burnham represented the Burn-
ham Ward; said they all felt well and were 
doing well.
	Prest. Margaret Nielson represented the
Young Ladies of Bluff Ward; said they were
doing as well as could be expected.
	Mary N. Jones spoke, and said she felt like
doing all the good she could. Wished that the
young would put in practice all the good coun-
sel that had been given during conference. Be-
lieved the sisters took great interest in their
meetings.
	Coun. Kisten Nielson said she could not
express her feelings as she would like; she
knew there was a great work to perform.
	Coun. Maggie Walton said she felt to do good
and improve, and hoped the young ladies
would be humble and prayerful and keep the
word of wisdom, and store their minds with
useful knowledge.
	Sister Martha Hammond said the sisters of
the Mancos Ward were storing up grain, and
felt that the brethren were sustaining them.
	Sister H. Barton said she wished to teach
her children correct principles; thought our
husbands should encourage us all they could.
	Prest. F. A. Hammond felt that we had been
abundantly blest, and that the Spirit of the
Lord had been with us. He hoped there was
no sister but what had her name enrolled in
the Relief Society, and all the young ladies.
Was pleased to live to see the time when


[Column 1]

woman had come to live in her proper place
this being the only Church where woman was
given her proper place; said they were help-
mates in the kingdom of God. Spoke at some
length on the usefulness of woman. Gave very
good counsel to the different Societies; wished
some of the brethren would get ready and take
the Stake Officers around to visit the different
wards. Wished the young men and young
ladies would get good books and study them.
	Sister Jane M. Walton made some closing
remarks, and adjourned conference for three
months.
	Choir sang, "Nearer, my God, to Thee."
Benediction by Coun. Wm. Halls.
		JULIA BUTT, Secretary.

UTAH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake convened in the meeting
house at Provo City, Dec. 9th, 1887, Prest
John presiding, assisted by her Counselors;
Sister Elizabeth Howard, from Salt Lake, also
present. Conference opened by singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former confer-
ence, etc.
	Prest. John said, "A few of us have met to-
gether in conference, and I ask God for His
Holy Spirit to be with us while we are together.
I am pleased to meet with my sisters again; let
us be united and be charitable one to another
humble and kind, willing to overlook each
other's weaknesses and imperfections; never
criticise the speaking of our sisters; we are all
new beginners; let us bear our testimonies to
the truth of this work. I wish to bear my
testimony to the truth of celestial marriage;
I know the sisters are tried at present, but be
patient and all will come out right in the end;
let us pray for strength"
	Sister Marilla Daniels said, "It is with
pleasure that I meet with you again after my
journey out in the world." The speaker gave
quite an interesting account of her journey
among friends in the East, and also across the
ocean to Europe, and spoke of her pleasure in
being home again and mingling with the
Saints.
	Sister Howard, the next speaker, was pleased
to meet with the sisters in Provo; hoped she
should have the faith and prayers of all, that
she might be enabled to say something that
would be beneficial to us. "It is just as neces-
sary for us to come to meeting to be instructed
as it is to eat our food. Let us do right; if we
are right and trying to do right we need not
care what others say of us. Let us uever say
anything but good of our sisters" Spoke on
order and punctuality and as the time was spent.
the conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Benedic-
tion by Emily G. Cluff.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p.m., with
usual exercises, after which Sister Howard re-
sumed her remarks, giving a very interesting ac-
count of the Sisters' Conference held in S. L.
City on the previous day; also read from the
EXPONENT the last-remarks of Sister E. R
Snow Smith at a Relief Society meeting; also
gave the sisters much useful counsel and ad-
vice on various subjects calculated to benefit
the sisters, etc. Said, "The enemy is trying in
every way to overcome and destroy us. Mothers
should educate their daughters in the ways of
the Lord; teach them what they are here for;
teach our boys to be honest and upright; let
us pray for the Spirit of God, that we may
learn of His ways; we must be continually on
the watchtower; let us take care of our bodies,
so that we will not need doctors; we will have
faith and power enough yet that we will ask
God and He will heal our children; let us not
be wrong-doers, but wise as serpents and harm-
]ess as doves. We must bring our minds in
conformity to the will of the Almighty." Spoke
of the cast that was growing up in our midst,

[Column 2]

and said the Lord was not well pleased on ac-
count of it. "Let us not forget our prayers,
nor forget to pray for our brethren who are in
prison for conscience' sake. Father's hand is
in everything, and He overrules all things for
the good of Zion; it behooves us to be faithful
and pure; we are the salt of the earth, the light 
of the world; the Lord's work is wonderful."
The speaker exhorted the sisters to come to
meeting and get the Spirit of God to help
them. "Teach your children to read the Con
stitution of the United States and all good
books, and gain knowledge for themselves. I
pray that the Lord will pour out His Spirit
upon all, in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Prest. Smoot said, "I have listened with
pleasure to the remarks of Sister Howard per-
taining to the interests of Zion. We are all
prone to evil, yet the Lord has instituied
principles, that if we heed, we will be enabled
to overcome. Among the true Saints there are
no classifications; the poor and the meek will
inherit the earth, so say all the prophets, and
our Savior called or chose the poor of the
earth to do His bidding; our sympathy should
be towards them. When this earth is redeemed
all who serve the Lord will meet on this earth
in its purified state, aud we will have a Sab-
bath of rest, free from all our troubles, ruled
over by our Savior; the Lord has promised
these things to His people. We should begin 
to-day to put away our follies and be independ-
ant; we will then begin to live the celestial
law; we talk about a celestial law, but we know
very little about it Eternal life is the greatest
gift of God, and if we gain it we must live for
it; if we cannot abide our covenant, we had
better not make them; if we can live up to
them it is well. Obedience is better than Sacri-
fice—obedience to the law of God or the sacred
oracles; our Savior said, 'My sheep know my
voice and will follow me, but they know not
the voice of a stranger.'" The speaker spoke
of the great responsibility resting on mothers
in the teaching of their childien; said, "Train
your daughters to be modest and plain, and
sociable with one another; be not proud; we
make ourselves slaves to Babylon; let us make
our adornments the work of our own hands; it
is better to seek the riches of eternity than
Babylon; be careful to make home happy, that
your children will think home is the best place
for them; be of good cheer you are doing a
good work, and the Lord will bless you there-
in," etc.
	Father Graves spoke a short time in the in-
terest of the silk association, followed by Sister
M. A. Till, President of the Society in Utah
Stake. She had some handkerchiefs on exhi-
bition manufactured from cocoons raised by
the sisters; the handkerchiefs were for sale;
there were also "two pieces of goods on hand.
which it was proposed to donate to the Temple
at Manti, to aid in the furnishing or decorating
of the same. A vote was taken and carried
unanimously; that it be given to the Temple.
	Sister John made a few explanatory remarks
concerning the goods, saying that the means to
purchase the cocoons, from which the goods
had been manufactured, had been donated by
the sisters of the Society, and, therefore she
thought it but right to get their vote as to its
disposal, and also to give it as a donation from
Utah Stake.
	Sister Standring spoke of the advantages of
these Societies, in educating the sisters in the
things of the kingdom of God. Said, "We
will each be judged by our own works," etc.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said she felt the Spirit
of the Lord had been with us; we had also
been blest in having Sister Howard and Prest.
Smoot with us to instruct us "We ought to
live in such a way that we would have the
Spirit of God with us at all times "
	Sister John felt to rejoice at the good spirit
that had been,with us to-day. We will now

[Column 3]

adjourn our counference for three months."
Benediction by Mother Duke.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FREAKS OF NATURE.

	A little to the south and considerable to the
west of Fillmore can be seen a beautiful white
knoll, or small hill. It is round, coming to a
peak in the center; very much resembling a
snow capped mountain, when viewed from the
city. But as the investigator approaches, he
finds, instead of snow, a white sand, supposed
to be volcanic ash, and certainly there seems
some foundation for the supposition, as, im-
mediately beyond the whole surface of the
earth is rent with openings running in all di-
rections as if caused by an earthquake Some
of these openings measure three and four feet
across, the depth being unknown.
	If a rock is thrown down it can be heard
striking from side to side, the sound coming
faint and fainter, until it is entirely lost by
distance.
	Adventurers deem it great sport to enter
these crevices and follow them both downwards
and in the direction of the rent. Sometimes
subterranean caves are found, which differ in
size, shape, and beauty. Caves can not be
found in all the crevices, but they abound in
great e ough numbers to securely conceal, at
least, half of those convicted for unlawful co-
habitation.
	If they were ever followed the pursued or
the pursuers would each do well if he were
able to keep track of his own person.
	About a mile and a half's climbing over
trenches and huge boulders of lava, will bring
you to two caves, one representing a very large
room, rather longer than wide, high in the
centre, and gradually sloping from the centre
to the ground. In shape very much like a
blubber of soap found floating upon water
and who knows but that this huge cave was
once filled with gas, which finally made its
escape where we found an entrance. The
second cave is very much inferior in size and
beauty, there being several openings through
the top. This cave is also very narrow, and, in
some places, not high enough to allow a man
of medium height to stand erect. Both must
be examined by an artificial light.
	Verging on this volcanic mountain is a mea-
dow, dotted here and there with springs. In
some the water is a little warm. They are
very much alike in shape and surroundings.
One of the most artistic is almost square, 
walled up with rock, as if by the hand of man.
In one corner is an opening through which
the sparkling water makes its escape. The
spring being somewhat elevated, the water
forms a miniature fall, producing an exquisite
effect upon the eye.	
		L. C.


CONJOINT PRIMARY MEETING.

	Special meeting of the Primary Associations
of Manti, held in the Council House, Wednes-
day afternoon, Dec 14th, 1887, Olive Lowry
presiding. Singing. "Beautiful Zion." Open-
ing prayer offered by Bishop H. Jensen. Sing
ing "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Exercises
as follows: Reading by Cyrena Hanson,
entitled, "What boys should learn;" Song,
"Footsteps on the stairs," by Vernie and Addie
Snow; Recitation, entitled, "Are the children
at home?" by Gertrude Jensen; Song by seven
little girls, entitled, "Sing me a song," Recita-
ton, "The Christmas party," by Howard Cox.
Song by Lillian and Sofrona Ludvigson, organ
accompaniment by Annie Ludvigson; Recita-
tion by Annie Ware; Class exercise, subject,
"Martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith,"


by a class of little girls, conducted, by Eliza
Keller. Song, "Hard times come again no
more," by Gena and Leah Reid; Recitation by
Eddie Bench, entitled, "Two little squirrels,"
Recitation by Emily Keller, "Three days in
the life of Columbus," Song, "Down by the deep
sad sea," by Ethel Lowry, Organ accompani-
ment by Dora Lowry; Recitation, "The old
hat," by Lawrence Lowry; Organ music by
Rosetta Hougard.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells addressed the chil-
dren in a very interesting manner. Expressed
her pleasure in listening to the exercises which
had been rendered. Advised the children to 
encourag all their playmates to attend Prim-
ary meetings and they would then be perform-
ing missionary labors. Related several interest-
ing stories, and asked many questions which
are very beneficial for children.
	Sister Mary A. Hyde made some appropriate
remarks after which meeting adjourned. Sing-
ing "Dare to do right." Benediction by Prest.
J. B. Malben.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM ST. JOHNS A. T.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought a few lines from St. Johns might
be of interest to the readers of the EXPONENT
to let you know how we are getting along in
this far off land. I am pleased to say that the
prospects look brighter than they have in the
past. We have a good Relief Society here
with our beloved Sister, Lucinda Richey, for
President, with her Counselors, Helena Jensen
and Hannah Arnold who are women always
on hand to do all the good they can for the
Society; we have, also, a good band of teachers
who are willing to do their duties as well as
the rest of the sisters; in fact, I think we have
as good a Relief Society here as they have
anywhere, as we have, in the past, had quite a
little to contend with; but we have yet re-
mained faithful to our mission; and I think
that I can truthfully say as one of our leading
men said, that those who stayed here were in-
deed Latter day Saints.
	We were organized as the St John's Stake
of Zion, on the 24th of July, by the visiting 
brethren. We have for Stake President of 
the Relief Society, Sister E. L. Udall, with
Sisters T. A. White and E. M. Patterson Coun-
selors, and Sister E. M. Farr, Secretary.
	The Brethren met with the sisters on the
25th and gave us some very good instruction
as to our duties as wives and mothers, and also
explained to us the necessity of living up to
all the principles of the Gospel.
	We have, for Stake President, D K. Udall
with E. Treeman and W. Gibbons counselors.
As Bishop, Willard Farr, with Erick
Larson and Niels P. Johnson Counselors.
	We feel to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in having good and upright men to lead
and guide us. Ever praying for the welfare
of the EXPONENT, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			CLAUDINA JENSEN, Secretary.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Stone bullets were used in 1514; those of
iron are first mentioned in 1550.
	Miss Phoebe Couzins has announced herself
as an independent Prohibition candidate for
Governor in Missouri.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards, the English novel-,
ist and archaeologist, has been lecturiug on
"Old Egypt" to crowded houses.
	David Dudley Field takes exercise at the
age of eighty-two years by walking eight mile


every day and riding horse back for an hour
besides.
	It has been estimated that the number of
youug ladies who find regular and profitable
employment as type-writers in New York city
alone reaches beyond two thousand.
	Mrs. H. M. Tracy Cutler rejoices in the fact
that she is now a great-grandmother, while her
own mother still lives, hale and healthy, al-
though more than ninety years of age.
	During the year ending October 31st, there
were 19,226 visitors to Burn's cottage at Ayer.
The visitors are from all parts of the world,
most of those from abroad being Americans.
	The building for the Ramona Indian Girls
School at Santa Fe, N. M., commemorating
Helen Hunt Jackson, will cost $30,000. It
will accomodate one hundred and fifty pupils.
	The memorial in favor of granting degrees
to women at Cambridge University, England,
had more thau 500 signers, of whom 40 were
head mistresses of publje schools, 211 assist-
ant mistresses in public schools, and 42 profess-
ors and lecturers.


﻿RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has in His infinite
wisdom, taken from our midst our worthy and esteemed
fellow laborer in the Payson Relief Society, Sister Eliza-
beth Lant, and
	Whereas, The intimate relations held during her long ser-
vices both in the District and Ward Societies of this branch
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we,
the officers and members of the Relief Society deem it
proper as a mark of respect that we record our apprecia-
tion of her; therefore be it
	Resolved. That the wisdom and ability which she had
shown in assisting to promote these worthy enterprises for 
many years will be held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved, That the sudden removal from our midst of
such a sister will be deeply felt, especially in the district
over which she presided, and will prove a loss to the gener-
al public.
	Resolved, That with deep sympathy we condole with
the afflicted husband and children and friends of the de-
ceased, and express our earnest hopes that even so great a
bereavement may be overruled for good.
	Resolved That these resolutions be spread upon the Re-
cord of the Ward and District Societies of Payson, and that
an Engrossed copy be given to the bereaved family, and
that a copy of the same be published in the Territorial
Enquirer and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
				JANE A. DANIELS,
	Committee.	CLARISSA MOORE,
				SARAH BREWERTON.


OBITUARIES.

	[To the memory of Sister Clara Manirva Draper,
daughter of Albert E. and Clara Draper who departed this 
life December 2nd 1887.]
	Whereas, in the providence of an alwise God, he has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved Sister, Maner-
va Draper, who has suffered with patient endurance through
her great affliction. And,
	Whereas, Our departed friend and associate, was worthy
our highest regard and affection, her labors in our asso-
ciation, also as a teacher in the Sabbath School, and a 
member of the choir, being faithfully performed, We feel
that some proper recognition of her virtues be had among
us.
	Whereas, Her long suffering has been purifying and en-
nobling, and as an example to all, will ever be one worthy
of imitation.
	Resolved, That we as members of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Moroni City realize the loss of so faithful a member.
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy and condo-
lence to the sorrow stricken family and friends, hoping that
the Spirit of the Almighty will comfort them in their sad
hour of affliction.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolutions
to her parents, that one be sent to the Home Sentinel


also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and one
be placed on the Young Ladies record.
				ANNA M. HARDY,
				ANNIE RASMUSSEN
	Committee.	MARY KEMP,
				SARAH E. KELLETT,
				NANCY ANDERSON.

	DIED, at her residence in Wanship, at 10:30 a.m., Nov.
26, 1887, Carolina Dortha Peterson, born in Goderstof,
Holstein, Germany, Oct. 8th, 1835. She emigrated to
Denmark in 1847 with her parents Henry and Christine
Madeline Dabelstein and was there married to Andrew
Peterson on April 27, 1857, to whom she bore seven sons
and five daughters. One daughter has gone before her;
the rest, with their father, feel the great loss of a beloved
wife and mother. She received the Gospel, with her hus-
band, in 1851 and was baptised on the 4th of February in
that year. The Lord manifested great power in her be-
half. She emigrated to Utah with her husband and family
in 1866. She received her washings and anointings in the
house of the Lord in 1868 and had twice been in the
house of the Lord at Logan to perform Ordinances for her
dead relations and friends. She embraced all the known
principles of the Gospel. She was a member of the Wan-
ship Relief Society and had been a teacher for many years
performing all duties faithfully. She died, as she lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint, which was shown by her last
charge to her family to be true to the Gospel for that is
true and all the principles thereof and listen to the counsel
of their father as she had done and God would bless them.
The funeral was conducted by Bishop Young at the late
residence of the deceased and appropriate remarks made
by Counselor William Crook. Henry Reynolds, Counselor
to the Prest. of the High Priest Quorum and Bishop Ma-
lin of Rockport. She was followed to the cemetery by a
large multitude of her relations and friends and dedicatory
prayer offered by Elder Henry Reynolds.	COM.


﻿R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 336. SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
		Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In
	fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

