[Vol8 | January 1921 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman Reports. Notice, Secretaries. Immediately upon closing of Relief Society books in December, ward secretaries should compile their reports. Tf the work of each month has been kept up to date, this will require very little additional effort. These reports should be in the hands of the stake secretary at the earliest possible moment in January, in order that the compiled stake reports may reach the General Office not later than January 20. Attention to this matter will be greatly appreciated. Stake Conferences. The General Board is very pleased to report that Relief Society stake conferences and conventions have been held in all of the stakes of the Church, with the exception of Juarez, during the year of 1920. At each of these conferences and conventions General Board representatives were in attendance. These -visitors brought back very encouraging reports of the work that is being accomplished by our great organization. Special mention has been made of the devotion and untiring efforts of Relief Society stake and ward officers, and of the loyal support of the members. The lesson work has improved very greatly during the last few years, and has attained a standard which compares favorably with the class work of other auxiliary organizations. Many excursions to the temples have been made wherever it has been possible, and hundreds of dollars have been collected by the far-away stakes and sent to the temples in the interest of temple service. The welfare work has received the closest attention, the great effort being to relieve distress and suffering, to remove handicaps, and to open up opportunities for those who have been unable to do this for themselves. The stake and ward officers and members are to be congratulated and commended for their services and devotion to the Relief Society cause. Leadership Institutes. Following the general institute in Provo, and responding to a call made by the General Authorities of the Church, stake leadership institutes have been held in many of the stakes of Zion, under the direction and supervision of the stake presidencies and the priesthood. The class work in most instances was con- 
 C ducted by the stake delegates who attended the general institute held at the Brigham Young University. In these institutes there were three departments: teacher-training, social and recreational leadership, and charities and relief work. Fundamental courses were given to the joint groups in sociology. Psychology, and in addition to the regular courses in the three departments, lectures were given on many subjects related to the work. These lectures were given by men and women from the various high schools, by state officials, doctors, and juvenile court judges, and probation officers. The courses in charity and relief work have been especially well attended. In almost every institute, all of the wards have been represented by a special delegate, and in most cases, by the president of the Relief Society, in addition. The Relief Society stake presidencies and many of the stake board members also attended regularly. Splendid, comprehensive 'reports in detail have been received in the office, containing copies of the stake programs, with other information concerning the work as carried on. In several instances, county commissioners attended the relief department. In one instance, a county official expressed his great appreciation for the course and stated that his department would be on hand to cooperate with the Relief Society, and to plan with them for the families in the district. He was very _grateful indeed that the Relief Society was so forward looking as to train leaders in the problems of human welfare, with the idea of gaining a better understanding of conditions as they exist, and a knowledge of how such conditions might be improved. In Salt Lake City was held a conjoint convention of the seven Salt Lake county stakes. Chapel services were held in the Barratt Hall each evening which was crowded to its capacity, after which the departments separated for special work. The department of charities and relief met in the Auditorium, fourth floor, Bishop's building, The attendance in this department varied from 350 to 450 at every session. Aside from the regular delegates and ward presidents, all of the Relief Society stake presidents, with their boards, were in attendance. Many other proiminent stake and ward workers joined the group. Reorganizations. North Sanpete Stake. The North Sanpete stake was reorganized on Saturday, October 23. Mrs. Wilhelmina Erickson, who has served faithfully for a number of years as president of the stake, and her two counselors, were honorably released. The newly installed officers are Elizabeth L. Christensen, president, Margaret L. Peel, first counselor, and Mina H. Sorensen, NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 37 second counselor, with Tillie B. Johansen, secretary. Appreciation was expressed for the splendid work of the retiring officers who have spared no pains to keep their organization up to the highest possible standard. The best wishes of the General Board go to the retiring officers who, it is felt sure, will be willing to continue their services in the Relief Society cause. Carbon Stake. On September 26, 1920, the Carbon stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Pauline A. Pace and her counselors were honorably released with a vote of thanks for their past labors. The new officers appointed were as follows: Mrs. Isabel Bryner, president; Zine Johnson, first counselor; Lois Stoker, second counselor; Florence Butterworth, secretary; Maria A. Mathis, treasurer; Ada L. Shimmin, chorister; Brighamina Downard and Mary Ann Young, board members, The General Board takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation for the services of the retiring officers in this stake and of expressing hearty good wishes to those who have been newly appointed to take up the work in this locality. In Memoriam. Ogden Stake. It is with keen sorrow that we record the death of Mrs. Isabel B. Foulger, president of the Relief Society of the Ogden stake, on October 26. Her death was doubly sad because of the fact that it was accidental. She had left her home only a few moments before to go to the home of one of her counselors to consult with her regarding Relief Society problems, when she was accidentally run down by a street car and instantly killed. There is some comfort in the thought that Mrs. Foulger probably suffered very little, as she was promised in her patriarchal blessing that she would not taste the sting of death. Mrs. Foulger had served in the capacity of stake president since 1913, and her efficient and faithful service stands out as a great monument to her name. Previous to this she served as a counselor in the stake for five years. While devoted to all the traditions and the ideals of the Relief Society, Mrs. Foulger was a progressive officer, anxious that each year's work should be an improvement over the previous year. She strove constantly to broaden the scope of Relief Society work in her stake. With the idea of increased service along human welfare lines. Mrs. Foulger had been planning for some time to resign her position as president of the stake Relief Society, in order that she might, while yet comparatively young, take up in earnest her temple work, in which she was so greatly interested. From her counselors we learn that the Relief Society work in the Ogden stake is in splendid condition, every phase of the work and every department being up to date. 380C RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The General Board was represented at Mrs. Foulger's funeral by Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith, and Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley. The floral offerings were beautiful, and the services throughout most impressive. South Sanpete Stake. A distinct feature of Relief Society activity of the South Sanpete stake has been a course of lectures on health and nursing given by Miss Sarah Tooth, a graduate registered nurse. The lectures were given to the members of the Relief Society weekly in the various wards of the stake, covering a period of eight weeks. The course consisted of the following subjects: 1. General Care of the Patient; 2. Demonstrations in Bed Making; 3. Baths, Kinds and Uses; 4. Demonstration in the Use of Heat and Cold; 5. Parental Care; the Well Baby; What to do in Emergencies; 6. Patent Medicines; 7. Tuberculosis; Hygiene, Sanitation; 8. Why physical defects should be corrected; 9. A few things a woman should know about the community in which she lives. All of these lectures were well attended. In the various wards where members are unable to attend Relief Society meetings, the homes of such are visited in a social way and assistance given where needed. In some instances, hospital expenses have been met by the wards. During the months of June, July and August, one of the South Sanpete wards raised $212 which was sent to the missionaries from that ward. Committees on temple work are active in arranging companies of Relief Society women to officiate in the Manti Temple. This work of salvation for the dead is very near the hearts of all Relief Society women in this district. California Mission. Mrs. Louissa W. Jones, president of the Galifornia mission. Writes that since the October conference, three branch conferences have been held in the California mission, in Gridley, Oakland, and Los Angeles. In each of these branches there is a ~ good attedance and splendid spirit. Since October 16, four Relief Societies have been organized in the mission. On October 17 Fallon was organized with Mrs. Olive A. Sandoz, president; on October 26, Vallejo was organized with Mrs. Annie Jorgensen, president; Marysvale, with Mrs. Ruth Sanson, president; and Fresno, with Mrs. R. P. Danford, president. Mrs. Jones reports that in the Binghamton, Arizona branch, the social service department has been greatly assisted by the Extension Division of the University of 'Arizona. Lectures have been available whenever desired. The Extension Department has complimented the Relief Society on many occasions for NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 39 the splendid outline on this subject which has been furnished in 'the Relief Society Magazine. Ogden Stakes Give Bazaar. The Relief Societies of the Ogden, North Weber, and Weber stakes gave a most successful bazaar on November 18, 1920. The executive committee was composed of Mrs. Almira Rich, chairman, Ida Treseder, vice-chairman, Agnes H. Stevens, secretary, Georgina G. Marriott, treasurer. Each of the thirty-nine wards gave a quilt, twelve ladies' aprons, twelve children's aprons; also four pounds of sewed rags which were woven into rugs. Individual members donated fancy work, plain sewing, hand painted china, vegetables, fruit, homemade candy, bread, pies, cakes, doughnuts and miscellaneous articles of all kinds, making it possible to have a wonderful display in thirteen beautifully decorated booths. Luncheon was served every day from 11:30 to 2, and a chicken dinner from 6 to 8. The bazaar opened with community singing and an entertaining program was given every afternoon and evening. All of the business and professional people contributed liberally and after all expenses were paid, the committee announced that $5,000.00 had been raised. This fund will be used for the charity and relief work in Weber county. North Davis Stake. The Relief Society of the Syracuse stake gave a birthday party to their president, Mrs. Julia Tree, in honor of her sixtieth birthday. The party was held at the home of Mrs. Tree, where the accompanying picture was taken: aaa SYRACUSE RELIEF SOCIETY GROUP 
 Tintic Stake. The Relief Society women of the Tintic stake recently arranged an excursion to the Manti Temple by auto. The party consisted of 130 men and women. In many instances, the service was given to families who have been unable to carry forward, this work for their own people. A donation of $94.50 was made by those who were unable to join the excursion. Summit Stake. At the close of the Summit Stake Leadership Institute, which was the first one held in the Church, a very successful three-day clinic was arranged for by the stake Relief Society. Specialists in eye, ear, nose and throat work were secured and many children were examined. Those needing treatment were operated upon. This work was done at reduced rates to all, and free to those who were unable to pay for it. The Summit stake is planning now to have a dental clinic in the near future for the benefit of the children. Brinkerhoff Triplets. The Brinkerhoff Triplets—three lusty boys—are one year old. Neither of them seems to be worried about malnutrition. The mother, Mrs. Joseph Brinkerhoff, of McCornick, Utah, says THE BRINKERHOFF TRIPLETS she attributes her success in raising these fine babies to the many valuable lessons she learned while taking the Relief Society nurse course. EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - -. -: - - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - - - < - - -Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's 'Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VIII _ JANUARY, 1921 No, 1