Valediction Evelyn H. Hughes Doubt not, beloved, the justice of God's way, Though here beside the trail we two must part. Oh, keep your faith serene, no trust betray — No bitterness breed rancor in your heart. Think not my journey futile ending here, As westward all the wagons rumble past. Each one gives his own gift. Remember, dear, Beyond this waning hour our love shall last. Only this mortal clay interred shall know A rendezvous with darkness and its dread, While winged, triumphant, my spirit shall go Upward, where wait the deathless dead. Oh, hand in hand, beloved, our journey won, I shall go with you and our infant son! She Poet Ida Isaacson Some feet were set to tread the imaginative paths of poetry. An inner, ceaseless questing urges one on. It chmbs into the mind, dominating emotion, and will not be forsaken until its fledgling filaments attach themselves to verdant soil and begin to grow. Lunches Shat Lure Your Child to at Hazel Sowards Cannon HE school clock indicated TT eleven forty-five. The golden sunshine of Indian summer shone on Randy's thatch of unruly hair and accentuated the red freckles which stood out in base relief. "Randy, you look tired," observed his teacher kindly. "Oh, T'll be fine once I get some good lunch under my belt." He flashed a toothy grin. "You know, my Mom's lunches really pack a wallop." Calling all mothers! Make your child's lunch do just that — "'pack a wallop." The dictionary refers to "wallop" as that which " carries a dynamic, explosive blow." You, the homemaker, can prepare lunches which "deliver the punch" which become your child's stamina, his sparkle, his morale, and his strength to meet life. An appealing, nutritious lunch is conducive to concentration and academic progress; it makes the noon period fun and relaxing, and brings definite aesthetic values. 'The lunch you prepare is sort of a symbol of security between the home and the child; the lunch you prepare tells Randy many things and should impart a warm, satisfying feeling. A challenge? Yes, of course, but one to be met with ingenuity and intelligence. That you attack the school lunch problem with positive thinking is a basic concept and even precedes "know how" skills. Let your family catch your spirit and enthusiasm in subtle little ways. Make trying new foods, new flavors, new food combinations an exciting adventure. Put your own personality into that little meal in a sack. Just because it hasn't been done doesn't mean you can't do it. If a food spells added nutrition, has eye appeal or flavor zest, and packs well, try it! Carrot strips tucked in a lunch were unheard of thirty years ago. Young people are usually quick to accept our ideas and, unfortunately, our prejudices. Since lunch habits are a factor in vigorous and happy living, a knowledge of foods and advance planning are important. Mothers say they plan best when they themselves are hungry. Keep lists of each child's favorite luncheon foods and refer to them as you plan for the week, keeping your plan flexible, of course. Planning shouldn't consume more than fifteen minutes per week, and you will be amazed at the results of jotting these midday meals on paper — they are meals, not snacks. Lunches will not only perk up in nutritive value, but will often prove more economical. Be ever on the alert to glamorize the old standbys, but don't shrink from trying new ones. Homemaking magazines, newspapers, commercial folders, almost everywhere one looks, there are stimulating ideas. Let us consider a general pattern for a packed lunch, and then the homemaker can supplement it as she desires.