First S teps Donna Swain He came toward me, his tiny hands outstretched To catch the sun's last errant beams that shimmered on the wall, His eyes, twin pansy stars, sought mine To gain a needed courage, lest he fall. So fresh from heaven, that still around him clings An eternal glow — and now The lingering rays through golden prism Create a shining halo round his brow. First steps — to chart and guide them is my sacred trust; To mould and shape them to their destiny. God grant that I may give him wonted strength Along the path into eternity. Marguerite 'Walloc Pinet Whes Fetist OR many vears Marguerite Wallace Petersen, Salt Lake City, Utah, taught in the organizations of the Church. She appreciated the enrichment Relief Society offered. 'The gospel has always been the motivating force in her life. But, since arthritis has crippled her more and more, these past several years, she has been confined to her home. Her eyes, too, have been cadeenad by her affliction, and so she has been limited in her enjoyment of her fine library. Through these confining hours, she has turned to one of her latent gifts. She had always loved art, so she took constructive steps to develop her talent and, without assistance, she has taught herself to sketch portraits. How she can hold and guide the colored crayons she uses for her paintings surprises everyone who sees her work. One of her first pictures was of President Belle S. Spafford. A portrait of the late Matthew Cowley of the Council of the Twelve is also noteworthy. She has sketched some excellent portraits of her kin with outstanding excellence. Her portraits of little children are also beautifully done. Marguerite was born in Granger, Utah, a daughter of Josiah Davis Wallace and Ann Elizabeth Bertoch, Utah pioneers. She was married to Charles J. A. Petersen, December 24, 1940, in the Salt Lake Temple. It was only four vears after her marriage that she became a victim of arthritis. Her courage and faith have been unfaltering. Th Prayer for the Mellow Years Nancy M. Armstrong i. Me keep so busy with plans for today and preparations for tomorrow's eternal life that there will be no turning back to bygone yesterdays, except to profit by their mistakes.