Ruby Baird Andersen, wife of Reuben Andersen of Provo, Utah, has two teen-age daughters and is a competent and charming homemaker. An active worker in the auxiliaries of the Church, she has served as a ward Relief Society president. As a member of the Provo Chapter of the League of Utah writers, Mrs. Andersen has been studying and writing poetry for several years. Her work has appeared in The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon), the Provo Daily Herald, Theand other publications. Two of her poems were included in the anthology, Utah Sings, and one poem was published in Our Legacy, the Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse. On December 7, 1947, Ruby Baird Andersen passed away after a two weeks' illness. She had seen her picture and her poem in page proof the day before her death.  

THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June 1947 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1947.

The first prize story of forty dollars is awarded to Alice Morey Bailey, 256 Iowa Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "Nugget of Truth."

The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Janath Russell Cameron, 237 "D" Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "The Answer."

The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Myrtle M. Dean, 435 East 2d South, Provo, Utah, for her story "Our Children's Children."

This story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941 as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have not at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized standing.

The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1948.

Thirty-three manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1947. Only one of the prize winners for this year had previously placed in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest.

This contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity will continue to increase the literary quality of Theand will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Many of the stories submitted in the 1947 contest emphasized the moral theme to the detriment of the quality of the stories. It is suggested that the authors try to improve the literary craftsmanship of their submissions, giving the story plan and particular attention to character development, and giving careful attention to the fine details of word and sentence structure.

Thenow has a circulation of more than 85,000. There are subscribers in every state of the Union, and in many foreign countries, thus providing a varied and interested group of readers. Writers, recognizing this large and appreciative audience, realize the importance of centering the contest on their very best work.

The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the three who, in their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories.

The General Board also acknowledges the valuable contribution of the short story committee in supervising the contest.

Page 17

Prize-Winning Story
Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest

First Prize Story
"Nugget of Truth"
Alice Mortey Bailey

Her heels and looked at her small daughter, Penny, in dismay. It wasn't enough to have all this packing to do before the train would leave at six in the morning. On top of it, she must have this nagging worry about Penny.

"Just what did you tell the man at the door, Penny?" "I told him a great big elephant jumped out of the closet and ate you all up," said Penny, with a beatific smile. "Now can we pack my dolly dresses?"

"Penny, you didn't!" "Yes, I did, and I told him, besides, you haven't a minute to spare, and you look a sight!"

"Oh," moaned Anna Lea. "Whatever is Mommy going to do with you? And what is your Daddy going to think when we get to San Francisco, and he finds out you still tell fibs? You're a big girl now, more than four."

Bill wouldn't understand it, any more than she did, but there it was. Modern parents, Bill said, didn't let things like this go on. Wasn't there child psychology, or some way to get at the bottom of it and find out why Penny lied? Bill called it that. Lies.

And it was no use for Anna Lea to talk of an over-active imagination, because Bill had been brought up in a strict household. He thought he was being liberal not to take his razor stop to Penny, or to lock her in the closet. He was going to, he said, if Penny wasn't cured by the time they got to San Francisco.

"It's up to you, Dear. You're the one who is with her all the time. I can't do a thing when I'm traveling like this," he had said. Bill was very young looking, but his jaw was firm, and if the truth had it, that was the real reason why

NUGGET OF TRUTH

he had given up the job of troubleshooter on the Santa Fe and had taken a job in the office—so he could spank Penny and lock her in the closet.

Anna Lea didn't know very much about children, but even she knew there should be a better way. Bill didn't know how big and heavy his hand was, and when Bill got angry he shouted.

"Who was the man at the door, Darling? Did he say?"

"Oh yes! That was Mr. Jefferson, and he is one of Daddy's friends." The name didn't ring any bell in Anna Lea's memory. Bill was sweet. He had so many friends. He was big and ambitious and forthright.

It wasn't so much that she was afraid of Bill as it was that she was afraid he would stop loving her. "A man's choice of a wife can't be overestimated," he said once. He was reading about a friend's divorce in the paper. "You take Stubby, here. It says incompatibility in the paper, but it goes a lot deeper than that. Stubby was with me over there, and he thought he had the world wrapped up in a little blond cocoon, but what does he find when he gets home? The cocoon turns out to be a butterfly." "Bill, that's clever!" "These war marriages! A guy gets all steamed up and heroic, and everything looks like hot stuff to him. He grabs off a last-minute marriage before he goes out to fight, and when he gets home he finds he's tied for life to some little ball of fluff, if not to a grindstone." "Millstone, Bill," corrected Anna Lea, and added in a very small voice, "ours was a war marriage." "Right," said Bill, "and did I know you? You had me so dazzled I didn't know what went on in that little head of yours." He had stood up then, to come and kiss her. "And you still do," he said, his eyes growing warm, his lips circling her face with kisses. "But I mean to find out." And when he did, what would he know? Would he still love her? Would he think she had character? He had thought so the day he had given her her watch—the day Penny was born. "Honey," he had said, sitting beside the hospital bed after it was all over and she had rested, "I brought you something." He had been down to send the good news telegrams. "It's a good watch, the best there is. Just like your little heart, ticking away all the time you were bringing my baby. I'm so glad it didn't stop," he said, and his face crumpled, his voice too. There were tears on her hands when he snapped the watch on her wrist.

"K E K K & 'XX"

WHEN are we going to pack my dolly dresses?" Penny's voice jolted her back into reality. Doll clothes were spread all over the overstuffed chair, enough of them to fill the space needed for Anna Lea's fur coat. "Those old rags! Throw them away, Penny Dearest, and we'll get you some more when we get there." "I couldn't," said Penny. "This dress I bought at Moffats, and it costed millions of dollars. It's real velvet. And this one is silk, and it costed millions of dollars, too. Besides I made them all myself, and my dolls can talk to me when you are gone, and they told me while you were asleep that they just love their clothes." "Oh, Penny," said Anna Lea in despair. "Can't you tell the truth?" "This time I am," said Penny virtuously. "They are really silk and velvet, and I really did pay millions...." "Penny!" Penny's eyes filled with tears and she began to cry, her little lower lip trembling. Penny was still a baby, with a baby's contours curving into creases at her wrists and elbows, and at the base of her sweet little throat, where Bill said that kisses grew. "How about a kiss for Daddy?" he would say, and Penny would tip back her head. "Are there any kisses there?" "Dozens of them," Bill would declare. "Then you can have them," Penny would tell him, stopping her play dutifully, tangling his hair and laughing when he tickled her. Penny's dimpled features could go, as Bill said, from May flowers to April showers in a matter of split seconds, and just now they were all woe. Anna Lea couldn't hold out against the grief in the small face, and took Penny in her arms. "There, Baby!" she said, patting her. "Will you pack my dolly dresses?" Penny said, mollified and pressing quick advantage. "Yes, yes, Dear. Mother will," promised Anna Lea, a little taken aback, and with mental reservations. I just can't! She thought. So much to pack—so little space. I'll have to think of something. "Put them in your box and leave them. I'll have to see where they'll fit. Why don't you help Mother to remember all the things," she added, hoping to get Penny's mind off the doll clothes. It gave Anna Lea a headache to think of all the little, last minute details—services to be discontinued, a drayman for her trunks, and the countless friends who called, wanting to take her to lunch, to dinner, to a show on her last day here. She had run the gamut of excuses. "I'd love to, Darling, but I have a terrific headache," or an appointment with the dentist, anything that came quickly to mind. "We must remember our tooth brushes in the morning. We have to leave them out to use. Help me to remember to give the apartment key back to the manager, and to think of a good safe place to pack my jewelry...." He had put her jewelry in every piece of luggage she had, her watch, her costume jewelry, and the emerald pin and earrings Bill had given her, only to take them out again. She picked up her watch, laying its smooth crystal to her cheek, thinking of Bill. It was a warm link between them. "Mommy, let me wear your watch on the train," Penny asked. "Of course not, Honey. I can't even wear it myself, because the link is broken." Her watch fascinated Penny. She would miss it acutely. She sighed and put it back with the little heap of jewelry on the desk. There were little heaps everywhere, her stockings and underwear, Bill's dress clothes, and Penny's dolls. It was  NUGGET OF TRUTH too much, and now there was that man, Bill's friend to worry about. She should have answered the door, herself, but it would have been too awful to have him see her like this, in slacks and mules, her hair in a kerchief and her face smudged with dust. And all this litter! Penny's doll clothes added the finishing touch. Penny was industriously packing them into her box, her face a miniature of housewifely concern. If Bill could only see her now! She was so adorable, her baby lips pursed, her round little fingers making their vague movements. Who could spank a child like that? "Penny, would you like to play at Jamie's for half an hour?" Anna Lea asked after a little busy silence.

WHEN Penny had gone Anna Lea let herself out of the service entrance and into the elevator to the basement. She had a basket of things to be burned. Uppermost on it was the box of Penny's doll clothes, atrocious little things Penny had crudely fashioned from her own worn-out things, silk print and old velvet, badly cut, with raw edges and ridiculous stitching. She would really have to teach Penny to sew, now that she was old enough.

It was all trash, bits of crumpled lace, some artificial flowers matted with embroidery silk, and some stringy ribbons. Nevertheless, she had a guilty little pang as she put them into the fire, turning her face from the heat of the glowing coals. She watched the sides of the box darken with smoke and the edges begin to curl. There was an instant when she would have snatched them out, but they broke into flame, and it was too late. Millions of dollars, Penny had said. With a little constriction of her heart, Anna Lea shut the door on the burning doll clothes and went upstairs. She shut her eyes, but couldn't shut out the sight of the flame, browning the tiny sun-suit, licking the small blue coat. The telephone was ringing as she went back into the apartment, Western Union, calling with a telegram from Bill. Jefferson, the big boss, calling to see you en route East. Squelch Penny's imagination. Everything depends on good impression. Better job, more money. Jefferson stickler for truth. Poor Bill! He must have been fearful to have sent that. "Oh!" she said suddenly, "Mr. Jefferson!" The truth hit her like a landslide. That was Mr. Jefferson whom Penny had told an elephant had eaten her mother—the man at the door. This was too awful! Bill would never forgive her. What was worse, he would never forgive Penny. A stickler for truth, Bill had said. Anna Lea wished fervently she might dissolve in thin air. What should she do? Rectify the mistake, obviously, but how? Where did he stay? If she could call him and tell the absolute truth, invite him to dinner at her new home as soon as he returned to San Francisco, that might do it. Somehow she would fix things for Bill.

SHE began calling the hotels. "Is a Mr. Jefferson registered there?" she asked repeatedly. After half an hour at the telephone, searching his whereabouts, she gave up. Anger overwhelmed her. Anger at Bill. What did he think, that you could tear your goods out of your home—well, your apartment—and be serenely calm enough to receive visitors? Anger at Penny. Bill was not so far wrong with his razor strops and closets—even closets inhabited with the terrifying "elephants!" of Penny's imagination. Why couldn't the child have said what she was told to say, that her mother had a headache, that she was ill? Even that now seemed a flimsy excuse. Anna Lea had supposed it to be some kind of joke. It could be Simmons from across the hall.

She was angry even at the unsuspecting Mr. Jefferson. Why, at least, couldn't he have telephoned? She was sitting beside her open trunk, her fingers pressing her throbbing temples, trying to think what next to do, when Penny burst in.

"I told Jamie I couldn't play any more because I have the measles and a broken leg, and besides I have to pack up baby's clothes."

Penny stopped short, looking for the box. "Did you pack them, Mommy? Did you put them in a suitcase?" she asked apprehensively.

Anna Lea, conscious of the guilt of being busy, did not answer. Penny came and stood before her in small implacability.

"Did you put my doll clothes in a suitcase, Mommy?"

"Yes, yes," mumbled Anna Lea in a preoccupied manner, lifting her stocking box into the tilt of her trunk with great care.

"Which suitcase did you put them in?" Penny insisted.

Anna Lea waved a vague hand at the set of bags and boxes.

"Oh Lord!" Penny. One of those. I can't remember. We'll find out when we get to San Francisco," she evaded.

I'll get her some real velvet and satin and make her dolls beautiful clothes the minute we get there, she promised herself. Penny subsided in a chair, not satisfied, but thoughtful. Anna Lea hoped, with a little sigh of relief, that the uncomfortable matter was closed.

"It was a really good place to pack your jewelry," Penny commenced in adult-like conversationalism.

"My jewelry!" said Anna Lea, startled. "What do you mean?" The heap of jewelry was gone from the desk. "Penny, where is Mother's jewelry?"

"You said to help you find a good place, and I helped. I put it down in the middle of my baby clothes box. Wasn't I a good girl?"

"You mean it's bumped? My jewelry—my watch that Daddy gave me—burned in the trunk?" 

ANNA Lea stood stock-still, remembering the flame that licked at the side of the box, remembering the glowing bed of coals beneath, the finger pointing at her. She stared at her, her eyes round and accusing.

"You burned up my dolly dresses, Mommy," she stated. "You said you packed them."

Anna Lea had a sick feeling, seeing the child's stricken face, sensing her own loss. Penny had loved those doll clothes as much as she had loved her watch.

She opened her mouth, the urge for excuses, palliatives, promises, strong upon her, but the moment was too deep, too significant. On it turned her whole life, her entire shop with Penny—with Bill. "I told you a lie, Penny," she said, wrenching the words from their habitual sockets. "A big, very bad lie. I did say I packed them. I did burn your baby clothes."

Penny's sobs were heartbreak. "Lana's velvet dress—Billy Boy's blue coat—burned!"

No less burning was the vision of Bill's job, swept into the holocaust of Mr. Jefferson's disapproval, Bill's love for her, smoking in contempt, licked by the small flames of her own worth lies and deceits of convenience. She knelt beside Penny.

"I know how you feel, Penny. I've been a very bad mother. I know exactly how you feel!"

Penny stopped short, struck by an idea. "My own pack them, Mommy? Daddy's pack—"

"Don't cry, my pretty Mama," she wept on. "My dolly's clothes didn't cost millions and millions of dollars,
and I didn't buy them at Moffats. My dollies didn't tell me they loved them, because my dollies can't talk."

"Penny, you're telling the truth," marveled Anna Lea.

Penny's eyes smiled tears and her little mouth trembled.

"Of course! I thought it was a lovely good place to pack your jewelry," she said contritely.

"Oh, Baby!" And Anna Lea took Penny into her arms. The reason why Penny lied—the cure for it—lay like a nugget in the ashes of her loss.

The telephone rang, then, like a second chance. It was Mr. Jefferson.

"Just a moment," Anna Lea said cupping the mouthpiece. "It was a good place, Penny Darling. A very good place!"

Alice Morey Bailey, musician, composer, sculptor, artist, and writer, is a remarkable artist! Latter-day Saint woman. In addition to her outstanding accomplishments in the fine arts, she is a trained nurse and a loving wife and mother. Alice and her husband, DeWitt Bailey, have three children, a married daughter, Elise Maines; a son, Donald, attending the University of Utah; and a younger daughter, Judith. There is also a most adorable grandchild, Sharon Maines.

Bailey has served in all of the Church auxiliary organizations and is at present organist in the Sunday School of the Eleventh Ward, Salt Lake City.
The literary work of Mrs. Bailey has been recognized by many publications and has received awards in several contests. She won first place in the Utah State Federation of Women's Clubs Poetry Contest in 1941 and second place in 1939. She has twice received the Desert News Christmas Prize Story Contest, first place in 1940, first place in 1942 in the A. Centennial One-Act Play Contest for "The Rosewood Piano," and second prize in 1943. M. I. A. Centennial Story Contest for "One Rose, Withered."
Readers of Theare familiar with Mrs. Bailey's poems, many of them frontispieces, and with her excellent short stories which have added much to the beauty and enjoyment of the magazine. "The Merry-Go-Round," was featured during 1941 and 1942. "Wilderness," placed first in the 1941 Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, and "The Ring of Strength," placed second in 1945. This year she is the short story contest winner of the first prize in the third year of the poetry contest.
Salt Lake Relief Society Building News
RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS

25 SOUTH IDAHO FALLS FIRST STAKE TO MAKE 100% MEMBERSHIP DONATION QUOTA AND STAKE BOARD QUOTA As the Magazine goes to press, word has been received that the South Idaho Falls Stake has completed its $5 membership quota and has already placed its contribution in the hands of the Presiding Bishopric. Relief Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend congratulations to South Idaho Falls Stake for this outstanding accomplishment.

ERDA WARD, GRANTSVILLE STAKE (UTAH), FIRST WARD TO SUBMIT QUOTA FOR BUILDING FUND The sisters of this ward secured their fund through a wheat activity in which every Relief Society member participated. The brethren of Erda Ward co-operated in the project. The contribution exceeded the quota, representing two new members.

RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD QUOTAS RECEIVED
The General Board expresses appreciation to the following Relief Society stake boards which, by December 1, 1947, had sent the entire quotas assigned their respective stake boards to the office of the General Board:
Bear River Mount Graham Roosevelt South Salt Lake Bonneville Mount Ogden San Diego South Sanpete Cache North Carbon San Juan Tooele Ensign North Weber Snowflake Union Gunnison Park

FIRST BRANCH TO MEET ITS QUOTA FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FUND
Officers of the Mexican Branch Relief Society, Temple View Stake (Salt Lake City), present their check to General President Belle S. Spafford.
Left to right: General President Belle S. Spafford; Dolores R. Torres, Branch President; Manuela G. Hernandez, Second Counselor; Marie Aparicio, Secretary. First Counselor Domitila R. Martinez was not present when this photograph was taken. All the members of this branch contributed to the building fund.

Sixty Years Ago
Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1888

FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS.� APOSTROPHE (To the liberated spirit of Zion's late Prophetess and Poetess Eliza R. Snow Smith)
Holiness, akin to beauty,
Stamped thee with a marvelous seal;
Powerful was thy sense of duty,
Irrepressible thy zeal;
Counselor, so true, so able;
Ready to relieve distress;
The afflicted and the tempted
'Twas thy ministry to bless.
Emily H., Emily Woodmansee

LETTER FROM OHIO:
I was told the other day by an acquaintance that my "Mormon friend, Eliza Snow, is dead," and he said that notices of her death were in all the Cincinnati papers. I did not see the notices, but I felt very much saddened to hear of it. One's life is made up of regrets, at least my life is. I shall always regret that I never had a fuller acquaintance with "Sister Eliza" as you all so lovingly call her. She was a noble, a wonderful woman, it seemed to me, and I shall now always think of her as being in heaven with the many who were "first at the sepulcher," and as always busy and happy.
I wonder what the future of the peculiar people will be. . . .
There is work in church and moral movements for women now. God grant that we may all do our work faithfully.
Emily Scott

THE OLD YEAR'S BLESSINGS
I am fading from you,
But one draweth near,
Called the angel guardian
Of the coming year;
I brought joy to brighten
Many happy days;
Let the New Year's angel
Turn them into praise.
Adelaide A. Proctor

EDITORIAL NOTE: Jack, the Fisherman, by Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, is a pathetic story of the net woven by the demon alcohol to entrap the unwary. The tale is told with a depth of pity and tenderness that should waken a responsive chord in the heart of every person to work for the rescue of precious souls from the horrors of intemperance.
Emmeline B. Wells

FROM SAN JUAN STAKE:
The quarterly conference of the Relief Society was held at Bluff, December 4, 1887, with President Jane M. Walton presiding. She reported that there was a good feeling among the sisters. . . . said they had money to buy grain, and hoped that sometime they would have a place to put it in.
Sister Martha Hammond said the sisters of the Mancos Ward were storing up grain and felt that the brethren were sustaining them.
Sister H. Barton said she wished to teach her children correct principles,
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon.

Hundred years ago last November 7, Elizabeth Blackwell entered the only medical school that would accept a woman, to become, two years later, America's first woman doctor.

Contending against social ostracism and unfair professional treatment, she yet built a great career and accomplished untold good, relying on God for guidance. 'To honor her, the American Medical Women's Association is planning to build a library on the campus of the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania. On the bookplate to be used in the library is, center, a vignette of Arete, the "Light of Hellas" (ancient Greece), author of forty books on natural science and healing. Around the border of the bookplate are names of women famous in medicine, among them: Blackwell; Stevenson, _ first woman member and delegate to the American Medical Association, 1876; La Chapelle, famous French midwife; Erxleben, who practiced in Germany about 1750; Kahn, pioneer Chinese woman physician; Joshi, first medical woman in India; Mazzolini, early Italian medical woman inventor.

ONE of the largest funerals ever held in Franklin, Idaho, was that of Mrs. Eliza Doney Lowe, a sweet lady of eighty-four, who was active in Relief Society for more than fifty years and put its precepts into practice daily. Most of her waking hours, these later years, she spent helping those who needed comfort or assistance, whether they were rich or poor. She is survived by ninety-five great-grandchildren.

ANOTHER beloved Relief Society worker who died recently: in Salt Lake City, at the age 'of: ninety-eight, was Mrs. Juliana Petrea Thygesen Fredericksen, a native of Denmark.

EURIDICE TURANO, a lovely girl from Buenos Aires, Argentina, now enrolled at the Brigham Young University, Provo, is fulfilling a life-long dream to attend a university in the United States. A convert to the Church twelve years ago, she edited in Buenos Aires a magazine for missionaries and traveled throughout Argentina teaching the gospel.

LAST October 27, Mrs. Ann C. Milne of Salt Lake City reached the age of ninety-nine years. She still attends Relief Society and Daughters of Utah Pioneers meetings, and does housework. Fourteen years ago, an operation restored her eyesight after fifteen years of blindness. She has seventy-seven great-grandchildren.

ISS DORA LOGUE, a teacher in Arlington School, Murray, is one of the first of five Irish exchange teachers to come to America. She is enthusiastic over her work and her experiences in Utah.

Page 27 = EDITORIAL ~2 VOL. 35 JANUARY 1948

VOL. 35 JANUARY 1948 NO. 1

"Warm Hearts and Friendly Hands"

Loyalty to the teachings of the gospel shown by one's daily conduct, loyalty to one's family, loyalty to friends and those placed in Church positions of authority, bring to a person the blessings of heaven. In the midst of trials and afflictions, how sweet, how solacing is the loyalty of friends. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was a prisoner in Liberty Jail, the Lord spoke these comforting words: "Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands. Thou art not yet as Job; thy friends do not contend against thee neither charge thee with transgression as they did Job (D&C 121:9-10)." It is a priceless gift to be able to rely on the loyalty of one's associates, to be certain that they will remain staunch and true in adversity. Every president of the Church has been surrounded by associates who would have been loyal to the death. That is an attribute of the Lord's apostles.

In any Church position to which a woman may be called, she owes full loyalty to those placed over her and to those with whom she labors. One of the reasons that the Relief Society is different from every other woman's organization on the face of the earth, is that the leaders are called by men bearing the Holy Priesthood, and seekers of positions are not called. When a woman is chosen for a position, she may expect the full loyalty of all the women with whom she works.

It is a sorrowful thing for a woman to be disloyal to those placed over her, or to be disloyal to those whom she professes to befriend. Those who would dwell in the presence of the Lord and belong to the Church of the Firstborn "see as they are seen, and know as they are known." A sincere woman shuns associating with women whom she knows, from past experience, are disloyal to friends and associates. She knows that each person will have to answer! For every idle word spoken. Said Jesus, "But I say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment" (Matt. 12:30).

As a woman increases in years she should increase also in all righteousness. Her appearance, more and more, comes to mirror the spirit within. Sweetness and goodness tend to illumine and refine. At the beginning of this new year, each Relief Society member will earn the approbation of the Lord if she keeps a stricter curb on her tongue, builds up her sisters, and proves her loyalty to friends and principles through her daily living.

M. C. S. Yotes

10 THE FIELD

Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March

The Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day in March 1948 has been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. Suggestive plans for this evening meeting are being prepared by the General Board and will be sent to the stakes in bulletin form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting.

Watch This Month......

The month stamped along with your address on every copy of the Magazine you receive shows the month in which yoursubscription expires. By watching this month, you can renew your subscription early enough so that no issues of the Magazine will be missed. Renewal subscriptions must be received at this office one full month in advance of expiration in order to avoid missing an issue.

EARTH'S SONG OF THE ROAD

C. Cameron Johns

On me; the footsteps of mankind have traced
Now swift, now slow, the sum of history.
Unceasing, endless pageantry has paced.
Across the earth, and marked incisively
My charted ways. What wondrous traffickings
Through canyoned hills and over quilted field
Have been my lot! What strange and awesome things
The rich gold tapestry of earth will yield.

Men traverse age on age and mile on mile,
And to each era countless changes bring;
Today a beggar walks where just a while ago
Upon my breast, there walked a King.

Page 29

Miss Libby Steps Out