Dorothy Ducas [Issued by The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis]

Infantile Paralysis, supported by the now-familiar March of Dimes each January, will be ten years old on January 3, 1948. Ten years, in history, is but a moment. To mothers and fathers it is half their children's lives as children.

What has happened to speed the fight against infantile paralysis in the decade is of immediate interest and concern to all parents...

Let's list a few of the things it has done in its ten-year span:

First, it has become an organization with 2,735 local branches called chapters, manned by local volunteers, friends and neighbors of all of us. These local branches are the focal points for families in which infantile paralysis occurs, for from them comes financial assistance for the medical care of patients whose families cannot afford the complete costs without aid.

In the period between May, 19309, when the first chapter was formed, and December 31, 1947, chapters have given direct assistance to an estimated 88,000 patients, according to reports from National Foundation representatives in all the states. In some instances, this assistance meant payment of all medical charges: hospital, medical, nursing, physical therapy, transportation to and from hospitals and clinics.

In others, it meant the provision of a wheelchair, of braces, or perhaps a pair of crutches.
This service has been available to everyone in need of help, National Foundation for regardless of age, race, creed or color...

Second, the chapters of the National Foundation have provided funds for staffing and equipping polio units in local hospitals in many places, so that medical care would be available if polio came. In 1938, there were some 300 hospitals that admitted polio patients in the acute stage of the disease, according to the best available estimates. Today, there are at least 717 polio units in the country accepting acute cases...

The importance of the growth of treatment centers is underlined by medical authorities. They agree that early diagnosis and hospitalization can do more to prevent deformity and minimize crippling than any other one procedure now known...

FOLIO treatment has been changing in the last ten years. There is more stress today on early physical therapy. Here was one field where qualified workers were so scarce that money itself could not buy enough or efficient enough services for polio patients—without helping to create new physical therapists. The National Foundation in 1945 set aside $1,267,600 to train physical therapists at approved schools and to create new teachers for these schools. As a result, 893 physical therapy scholarships had been granted up to October 1, 1947, increasing the supply of these workers by about twenty-five per cent.

Adequate polio treatment is an expensive item beyond the reach of
the average budget. It is estimated each patient hospitalized for a year costs $2,000, while iron lung cases can cost as much as $20,000. Because of this, chapter treasuries frequently run dry under the pressure of a major outbreak.

When this happens, money is transferred from national headquarters to supplement chapter funds, which consist of fifty per cent of all March of Dimes receipts in the county. A total of $9,415,900 has been transferred to date to supplement chapter funds for patient care, $6,200,521 of it during the twelve months ending May 31, 1947, when 1,187 advances were made to 677 chapters. A group of women volunteers, specially trained to assist nurses and physical therapists in bedside care of polio patients in hospitals and homes, has been formed during the last three years. The Polio Emergency Volunteers, or PEVs, as they are called, have made it possible to spread the services of professional workers by relieving them of routine tasks so they have more time for skilled services. There are now about 9,000 PEVs throughout the county...

These steps forward in the field of patient care have been matched by achievements in scientific research and professional education. Since the National Foundation made its first research grant only a little more than six months after it was formed, the most intensive and comprehensive attack ever made on a single disease has been set in motion. Dozens of the country's leading scientists today are directing the search for knowledge and the training of professional workers at fifty of the most famous universities and medical schools in the United States. All told, 540 projects at 83 institutions in 29 states have been financed in ten years...

All these things have taken place within ten years. The final goal has not been reached, but knowing what has been done to relieve discomfort and pain, to prevent deformity, to minimize crippling, and to give every polio patient a fighting chance for the best possible recovery is a heart-warming thing to parents. It is comforting, too, to know that widespread and capable efforts are being made and continuously pursued to find a final solution to infantile paralysis. Because the National Foundation has done these things in its brief decade of doing, the appeal for continued support during the March of Dimes, January 15th to 30th, 1948, falls on responsive hearts. Men and women everywhere, and especially civic leaders and club women to whom this cause is of special interest, are urged to participate in the 1948 March of Dimes—to the end that the work of the last ten years may continue to ultimate victory.

Shein Arizona A communication from Arizona indicates that the Magazine is very much appreciated by the men, as well as by the women. One particular man "likes the Magazine so well he can hardly wait for it to come each month." One day he and his wife were out riding in the car and he had the Magazine reading it while his wife drove the car."

How to Cover an Umbrella