Dorothy Ducas [Issued by The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis]

Infantile Paralysis, supported by the now-familiar March of Dimes each January, will be ten years old on January 3, 1948. Ten years, in history, is but a moment. To mothers and fathers it is half their children's lives as children.

What has happened to speed the fight against infantile paralysis in the decade is of immediate interest and concern to all parents...

Let's list a few of the things it has done in its ten-year span:

First, it has become an organization with 2,735 local branches called chapters, manned by local volunteers, friends and neighbors of all of us. These local branches are the focal points for families in which infantile paralysis occurs, for from them comes financial assistance for the medical care of patients whose families cannot afford the complete costs without aid.

In the period between May, 19309, when the first chapter was formed, and December 31, 1947, chapters have given direct assistance to an estimated 88,000 patients, according to reports from National Foundation representatives in all the states. In some instances, this assistance meant payment of all medical charges: hospital, medical, nursing, physical therapy, transportation to and from hospitals and clinics.

In others, it meant the provision of a wheelchair, of braces, or perhaps a pair of crutches.
This service has been available to everyone in need of help, National Foundation for regardless of age, race, creed or color...

Second, the chapters of the National Foundation have provided funds for staffing and equipping polio units in local hospitals in many places, so that medical care would be available if polio came. In 1938, there were some 300 hospitals that admitted polio patients in the acute stage of the disease, according to the best available estimates. Today, there are at least 717 polio units in the country accepting acute cases...

The importance of the growth of treatment centers is underlined by medical authorities. They agree that early diagnosis and hospitalization can do more to prevent deformity and minimize crippling than any other one procedure now known...

FOLIO treatment has been changing in the last ten years. There is more stress today on early physical therapy. Here was one field where qualified workers were so scarce that money itself could not buy enough or efficient enough services for polio patients—without helping to create new physical therapists. The National Foundation in 1945 set aside $1,267,600 to train physical therapists at approved schools and to create new teachers for these schools. As a result, 893 physical therapy scholarships had been granted up to October 1, 1947, increasing the supply of these workers by about twenty-five per cent.

Adequate polio treatment is an expensive item beyond the reach of
the average budget. It is estimated each patient hospitalized for a year costs $2,000, while iron lung cases can cost as much as $20,000. Because of this, chapter treasuries frequently run dry under the pressure of a major outbreak.

When this happens, money is transferred from national headquarters to supplement chapter funds, which consist of fifty per cent of all March of Dimes receipts in the county. A total of $9,415,900 has been transferred to date to supplement chapter funds for patient care, $6,200,521 of it during the twelve months ending May 31, 1947, when 1,187 advances were made to 677 chapters. A group of women volunteers, specially trained to assist nurses and physical therapists in bedside care of polio patients in hospitals and homes, has been formed during the last three years. The Polio Emergency Volunteers, or PEVs, as they are called, have made it possible to spread the services of professional workers by relieving them of routine tasks so they have more time for skilled services. There are now about 9,000 PEVs throughout the county...

These steps forward in the field of patient care have been matched by achievements in scientific research and professional education. Since the National Foundation made its first research grant only a little more than six months after it was formed, the most intensive and comprehensive attack ever made on a single disease has been set in motion. Dozens of the country's leading scientists today are directing the search for knowledge and the training of professional workers at fifty of the most famous universities and medical schools in the United States. All told, 540 projects at 83 institutions in 29 states have been financed in ten years...

All these things have taken place within ten years. The final goal has not been reached, but knowing what has been done to relieve discomfort and pain, to prevent deformity, to minimize crippling, and to give every polio patient a fighting chance for the best possible recovery is a heart-warming thing to parents. It is comforting, too, to know that widespread and capable efforts are being made and continuously pursued to find a final solution to infantile paralysis. Because the National Foundation has done these things in its brief decade of doing, the appeal for continued support during the March of Dimes, January 15th to 30th, 1948, falls on responsive hearts. Men and women everywhere, and especially civic leaders and club women to whom this cause is of special interest, are urged to participate in the 1948 March of Dimes—to the end that the work of the last ten years may continue to ultimate victory.

Shein Arizona A communication from Arizona indicates that the Magazine is very much appreciated by the men, as well as by the women. One particular man "likes the Magazine so well he can hardly wait for it to come each month." One day he and his wife were out riding in the car and he had the Magazine reading it while his wife drove the car."

How to Cover an Umbrella Bertha Zaugg Perschon

Through accidents or by long wear, umbrellas become shabby or useless. At the present time it is very expensive to buy a good umbrella that is both attractive looking and will wear well. The homemaker who understands how to cut patterns, and who is familiar with simple sewing, can cover her old umbrella frame for a fraction of the cost of buying a new umbrella. It is, however, necessary to proceed slowly and follow the directions with great care.

Materials Needed
1 yard of 39-inch material of your favorite color and texture. Rayon taffeta proves very satisfactory, as it does not split as readily as silk.
Glue for replacing the cap. If cap is lost, a plastic thimble makes a good substitute.
2 spools of thread, one for heavy duty hand sewing, and one for machine use.

Preparatory Steps
Soak the cap off the old umbrella by placing it in very hot water to melt the glue. Remove the cap.
Carefully remove the old cover—from the umbrella frame, taking particular notice of where, how, and why it is sewed. This is very important, for, in stitching back the new cover to the frame, the same type of stitches must be used in the same places in order to assure a perfect fit.

After carefully removing the old cover, all in one piece, unpick one of the panels, being sure not to tear or stretch it. Press this panel smooth and straight.

Waterproofing the Material
Place the material to be used as the new cover between two sheets of waxed paper and press with iron on low heat, the temperature for artificial silk or rayon. The applied heat causes the wax to permeate the material, thus making it waterproof. Use new pieces of waxed paper for each area of the material, carefully arranging the sheets so that no spaces of the material will be left without a wax coating.

Cutting the Pattern
Lay the pressed panel on a piece of paper and cut a pattern the same size and shape as the original panel, except for one slight difference. You will find that the wide end of the original panel will be slightly curved. Do not cut the curve, but make the pattern straight on this edge. The pattern should be even on both sides when folded on center lengthwise line. Make sure that the pattern is the exact size of the original panel, except for the curve.

Lay the yard of 39-inch material flat on the table and cut it in half lengthwise. Remove the selvages and make a 1/2-inch hem on both sides of the lengths of the two pieces. (See Diagram A.)

Place the pattern at the top of one of the two pieces of hemmed material; with the wide panel end at the right-hand hemline and the point of the triangular-shaped panel toward left-hand hemline. Be sure that the pattern is laid along the straight of the goods. (See Diagram B, in which Page 37  DIAGRAM A CUT IN HALF HERE 1/4 INCH HEM 39 INCHES WIDE DIAGRAM C "FIRST STITCHING" ~~ SECOND STITCHING (VERY CLOSE TOGETHER) the straight of the goods is represented by dotted lines.)

Cut with pinking shears, beginning at the wide end of the panel and cutting toward the point. Alternate the pattern to the other hemline, and repeat until you have cut out one half of the number of panels needed to completely cover the umbrella. Then repeat the same process with the other half of the material.

Sewing the Panels
Lay two of the panels together and baste or pin the seam, beginning DIAGRAM B == a= 1/4 INCH HEM DIAGRAM D DIAGRAM E TOP JOINED SEAM TWO CIRCLES THREE INCHES 'N DIAMETER STITCHES 1/2 INCH FROM THE EDGE FOR MAKING RUFFLES i OF SECOND CIRCLE

Sina ne sew from the outside in. Continue adding the panels until all are joined. Then complete the circle by joining the last panel to the first. Fold each seam from right to left and top stitch on the wrong side only, just missing the first sewing. This strengthens the seams and prevents breaking of the stitches. (See Diagram C.)

When all of the panels are sewed together, the opening at the top should measure 1/2 inch in diameter.

Do not press at any time except when waterproofing.
Fastening the Cover to the Frame
Cut two circles of material, each three inches in diameter, and cut a 1/4-inch hole in the center of each. (See Diagram D.) Place one of these circles on the top of the umbrella frame.
Place the cover on the frame over the top of the small circle. Pin the corners of the cover to the frame by turning back onto the wrong side the corners of the joined panels 1/4 inch and placing a sharp pin through the folded material and the holes in the top of the frame. This holds the cover in place. Continue until all the panels are pinned. Then hand stitch the points of the panels to the tips of the umbrella spokes, in the same manner as the old cover was attached to the frame. (See Diagram E.)
Run a strong double thread around the top of the cover 1/4 inch from the edge and fasten to the top spoke, hand drawing in any slight fullness which may still be in the heavy fabric around the top of the frame toward the center.
Stitch the underside of the cover to the frame where and how it was stitched before. These stitchings vary with the style and shape of the umbrella.
Take the second stitch circle which you have already cut out (Diagram D) and make a row of running stitches around the outside, 1/4 inch from the edge, and draw the circle up until it is only 1/2 inch in diameter, forming a double ruffle. Place this over the cover on the tip of the frame and fasten securely.
Completing the Process
Furl the umbrella tip, or the substitute frame, being sure to get all the raw edges under the tip. Leave the umbrella closed until the glue dries, about twenty-four hours.
Make the braid for holding the spokes together from a scrap of the material, the same size as the old one, using it as a pattern for turning, or, if they are lost, use a snap fastener or their place. Sew the band to one of the spokes on the outside and sew the snap to the band.
When all the steps of the process are completed and the glue in the cap is thoroughly dry, open the umbrella and spray it with a fine spray of cold water from the hose or from the shower. This will shrink any slight fullness which may still be in the cover. Leave the umbrella open while it is drying.

How to Clean an Umbrella
An umbrella may be washed in cold, mild soapsuds. Use a soft brush to remove any spots. Rinse well with cold water. Leave the umbrella open until it is dry.
Three-Part Story to Begin in February
THE first installment of a three-part story "Windy Hilltop" by Ezra J. Poulsen, will begin in the February issue of TheIn this story of courage and conflict, the characters are vividly presented in their reaction to a problem of divergent loyalties. The dramatic situations are portrayed against the colorful background of western ranch life.
Mr. Poulsen, a native of Idaho, now residing in Salt Lake City, is well known as a contributor to both local and national publications. He is the author of two collections of verse, Songs for the Toilers and Poems in Varied Keys, and has compiled two anthologies of verse for publication. Readers of Thewill remember with pleasure the poems and prose which Mr. Poulsen has contributed over a period of many years. His three-part story "The Rock and the River" appeared in the Magazine in 1944.

SYMPHONY
Beatrice Rordame Parsons
Spring was the overture—a moment's pain Of bursting bud, of storm, and rain, The lilting melody of trees and birds, Black earth to hum unvoiced words.
With summer's gay and glorious sun, With heat to warm, and crops to run, The fugue grows deep, the rhythms light, For winds to whisper through the night.
In winter all the notes are low, From muted violins they flow; The tempo seems about to die, When frost begins, and harsh gales cry.
It's but the coda to a lovely strain— Life's symphony will rise again; The Maestro still his baton keeps, This is the pause, the music sleeps.

Page 40
Where Trails Run Out
CHAPTER 12—CONCLUSION