[Vol48 | November 1961 | Sequence: 07 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
EDITORIAL m© VOL. 


 NO. 11 Shy Neighbour As Shyself Jesus answered... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart.... Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. These (Mark 12:29-31). EIGHBORS are those whose pathways cross, near at home or faraway. The wide neighborhood is the world, where women encounter the ageold problems and accept with gracious strength the responsibilities and privileges which our Heavenly Father has assigned to his daughters at home and on the far frontiers. 'The near neighborhood is the home and the homes of others in the small town, along a city street, in the ward, or in the community. It is in the near neighborhood where opportunities are most easily discovered, and where the field of service is within the realm of the ministering hands of women who may go from their own homes into the homes of others, taking with them blessed comfort and inspiration. It may not be possible for us thus to enter largely into the needs of all our neighbors, but surely we can begin with those nearest to us by locale or acquaintance, and then by small beginnings, we can multiply our effective kindliness with the spirit and intent of our example. Neighbors are those who share joy and sorrow, poverty and abundance. 'They are those who share material blessings and _ spiritual strength. The seasons of the year may be shared by neighbors in gifts of summer flowers and winter Page 740 There is no other commandment greater than hearthside warmth. And the seasons of life can be richly shared by those who enter into the needs and longings and rejoicings of others. New babies can be shared, mothers and grandmothers can be shared. Young mothers in a neighborhood receive much comfort and convenience by sharing and grouping the care of children for each other in times of need. Blessed is the neighborhood which may call upon the seasoned wisdom of an older woman. Neighbors on many occasions find joyful participation in sharing work — in gardening and sewing, ironing and canning together. For them, not only work is shared, but the riches of companionship erase the ways of loneliness. The Latter-day Saint woman is most abundantly blessed in her desire to be a good neighbor, for she has been instructed from the days of her youth to look upon the earth and earth life as spiritual and everlasting in their implications. Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men (D & C 29:34). Not only is there an earthly enrichment from fellowship and sharing of ourselves with our neighbors, EDITORIAL but spiritual growth and enlightenment become our everlasting treasure. 'Thus the daily acts and words of neighborliness which should be our way of life are evidence and testimony of the realization of our earthly responsibilities, and, at the same time, they are a measure of the development of our eternal spirits. Like other gospel principles given for our direction in mortality and for our eventual salvation, the commandment to be neighbors takes its vitality from our present opportunities and projects them to a time when all the children of the Heavenly Father shall be one in purpose and shall be concerned with the spiritual advancement and salvation of the Father's family. A Latter-day Saint woman, in addition to the more practical aspects of being a good neighbor, has the divine commission to be a missionary to her associates, a missionary in the sense that she will use her life pattern and her deeds of kindliness and charity as a means of making the gospel shine so resplendently in her neighborhood that others will see a 741 reflected light and wish to learn the source of its radiance. A Latter-day Saint woman may invite her neighbor's children to attend Primary and Sunday School. She may invite the woman with whom she associates as a neighbor to go with her to Relief Society meetings. She may, upon occasion, ask one of her neighbors to help her with a Relief Society assignment. One sister who is now a devoted Relief Society member was first invited to a work meeting and was kindly requested to assist with the sewing. That was the beginning of interest — it was the beginning of membership in the Church, and of regular and joyful service in Relief Society. Another woman, trained in dramatic art and public speaking, was asked by a neighbor to read a number of poems for a literature lesson, and this woman, seeing a divinely organized group of sisters in their cultural and spiritual workshop, became one with them in the ward and in the world-wide sisterhood.; —V. P. C. See Larniten in the Night Maude Rubin Not long did April's lantern swing Luminous in the west, Caught on its cloud of lilac scent Brighter than amethyst.. Yet that lantern has haloed the long green dusk Of September's waning light, Has silvered gray November's husk — Now a wick for this winter night. Christmas G tfts Jean Ridges Jennings ITH Christmas just around the corner again, it's time to start making serious plans for gift giving. 'This year why not surprise the girls (both young and old) on your list with gifts you have made yourself? Suggested here are a number of ideas for gifts that cover a wide range of usage. One of them may be just what you are seeking. Decorated Gloves A gift that could add a touch of luxury to any woman's wardrobe at a nominal cost is a pair of beaded or embroidered gloves. When purchased in the stores, already decorated, they may be quite expensive. But by using a little ingenuity and pennies' worth of materials, you can surprise yourself with your own creations. Start now to watch for specials in the glove departments of your local stores. Buy your favorite brand of good quality plain gloves in any color you wish. Then glamorize them to your heart's content with the addition of "baubles, bangles, and beads" or even embroidery. Think up your own ideas for doing this or "borrow" suggestions from gloves you see already trimmed. Don't limit your decorating talents to ladies' gloves, but make your favorite tot or teenager happy with a pair of gloves or mittens that has been glamorized with yarn embroidery, a few beads, or some attractive applique. Holiday Skirt Is there a girl on your list to whom you would like to give something especially nice? 'This gift should please girls of all ages who Page 742 Figure 1 HOLIDAY SKIT are young at heart — even "girl" grandmothers. We suggest a festive skirt made of felt which began its career as a holiday skirt, but would be just as desirable for special occasions at almost any season of the year. This would be an ideal "at home' costume for the hostess who wants to dress importantly. Any teenager would be delighted to wear it to informal dances or special dates. Subteens, too, could enjoy having one for special occasions. A simplified version would be fun for tots. With a frilly or elaborate blouse, it could be as dressy as the occasion demanded. Teamed with a tailored blouse or conservative top, it becomes a more casual outht. This skirt is made of felt in two colors that blend or contrast agreeably. For a striking effect, combine gold with black; dark blue with light blue; black or navy with shocking pink; or for a real holiday look, red with green. Since felt has no grain, the fabric can be used lengthwise or crosswise with the same effect. Felted fabrics need no seam finish. No hem is necessary on this skirt. CHRISTMAS GIFTS etene at vec' Lower left: a sewing box; lower right: a long (26-inch) closet bag. Upper left: closet bag on wooden hanger; upper right: toy worm. You won't need a pattern. Use the felt straight, making the skirt one and one half yards around the bottom. Gather the fullness at the waist onto the skirt band in even clusters at side fronts and side backs. There is only one seam and it should be in the back. Insert the zipper in the seam. 'The modified fulness in the stiff fabric makes a_ bellshaped skirt which is new and attractive. Face the skirt band with grosgrain ribbon. The unusual design and originality in the skirt come from the bands of contrasting felt that are woven through slits cut in the skirt (Figure 1). The number and spacing of the bands will depend on the length of the skirt being made. For added interest and novelty, sew ornamental braid and rickrack on one of the bands before lacing it through the skirt. Be sure the slits are spaced and cut evenly and accurately. When buying fabric, remember that one length of 54-inch felt is all you need. MADE CHRISTMAS GIFTS _ Buy as much as the length of the skirt, plus the waistband. For contrasting bands, you will need as much as the total width of all of the pieces inserted in the skirt. Toy "Worm" Here is a toy for the kiddies. Though it is called a worm, any resemblance to the real thing is quite coincidental. 'Tiny children love it, and it doubles as an ornament in the bedrooms of those a bit older. Quick and easy to make, this toy needs just a little material — can even be made from scraps. Felt or corduroy makes nice "worms," and one-fourth yard of 36-inch fabric is sufficient. In addition, you will need cotton wadding for stuffing, two pipe cleaners for feelers, and a scrap of black for eyes, nose, and mouth. 744 Our little animal is made in eight sections, each one three-fourths inch smaller than the one in front of it, all stuffed to a soft plumpness. 'The largest is the head and is cut eight inches in diameter. The smallest makes the tail and is two and three-fourths inches in diameter. Each section is three-fourths inches smaller than the one in front of it and is made of two circles of material sewed together around the edges with plenty of cotton wadding stuffed between to make it very plump. Before stuffing, apply features to the largest circle as shown in Figure 2. Sew them on with zig-zag sewing machine stitch or blanket stitch by hand. PIPE STEMS o\(¢ WHITE amy? BLACK FELT Figure 2 FACE OF WORM When corduroy is used, blanket stitch or zigzag around the edges of all circle sections. In felt, pink all edges and sew circles together with a narrow seam allowance. Attach each plump section to the one in front of it with a large snap that has been sewed to the exact center of the circle. 'Thus the worm will wriggle very provocatively. Closet Bags 'Two easy-to-make closet bags can be had for just pennies and take but a few minutes to make. They are so useful that any woman or girl would welcome one for closet or bathroom. The first is made of heavy plastic and fits on a. Wooden hanger. Buy only 18 inches of 36-inch wide plastic, three yards of bias tape, and one wooden hanger. Make the bag as shown im the diagram (Figure 3) with the top edge shaped to fit the hanger. Bind around the opening and then bind the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1961 edges of front and back sections together. That is all — simple, isn't it? Use it for dust cloths in the broom closet or for soiled things in a clothes closet or bathroom. The other closet bag is a hold-all for small articles. Hanging in the clothes closet, it is ideal for hose, gloves, scarves, 18" t WIoTH OF HANGER PLUS 3% se Figure 3 CLOSET BAG WITH WOODEN HANGER \<2'> > 26" Vv Figure 4 LONG CLOSET BAG CHRISTMAS GIFTS or what have you. In the bathroom it keeps track of combs, brushes, curlers, bobby pins, nets, shower caps, or countless other things. Use light-weight plastic for this one and cut a strip nine inches by twenty-six inches. Cut six pockets that are nine inches wide (same as the basic strip) and six inches deep. Hem the top edge of each and trim with rickrack in any desired color. Starting at the bottom edge of the plastic strip, sew the unhemmed edge of pockets to plastic so that each one just meets the one above it (Figure 4). Sew a two-inch strip of cardboard into a casing at the top. Now, hem both sides of the long strip (narrowly), catching in the edges of the pocket sections and thus securing them in place. Make a loop of rickrack and sew to center of the cardboard at the top to form a hanger. Sewing Box Another forethought for Christmas is a glamor sewing box, built around a zipper. You will find it easy to make and ideal either for travel or top dresser drawer. 'The one pictured is made of quilted cotton, 745 but in satin, taffeta, or brocade, it can double as a jewel case. For this you will need: % yd. Quilted, double-faced fabric 36 inches wide 1% yds. Elastic, % inch wide 1 zipper, 22 inches long 1% yds. Bias fold tape, matching or contrasting cotton wadding to stuff pincushion fittings (spools of thread, thimble, needles, tape, etc. ) For top and bottom sections, cut two six and one-fourth inch squares and round off corners. Top and bottom sections of sides are twenty-three inches long and one and one-fourth inches (top), one and one-half inches (bottom) wide. Pincushion is a two and one-half inch circle (Figure 5). Mark lower side section with pins for spacing of spool holders: one inch from each end and every one and three-eighths inches between. Cut a thirty-two inch strip of elastic. Mark this with pins one inch from each end and every two inches between. Matching pins, attach elastic to lower side section. Stitch back and forth three times at each pin (Figure 6). Join ends of each section (top and bottom) with a flat fell seam. ¢ 36" = CUTTING GUIDE { <——_—- 6 4» <- 64'—>». " F = z ¥, < a2, " INSIDE 7" UPPER SIDE SECTION SS ™_ a 4 LOWER SIDE SECTION ie Figure 5 CUTTING GUIDE FOR SEWING BOX r t 3/Q" { 37," I u INSIDE LOWER SIDE OF SECTION \"" 2" as =i 5a " elastic Figure 6 INSIDE SECTION OF BOTTOM OF SEWING BOX 746 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1961 Now, sew the zipper to the lower side section, right sides together, having metal ends meet at the seam. Attach other side of zipper tape to the upper section of the box. Press seam allowances away from the zipper and overcast zipper tape securely to side sections. Close the opening between ends of zipper by overcasting tape edges together. Cut two elastic strips and sew to top as follows: one three-inch strip down to the center and one six and three-fourths inch strip across the center. Stitch as shown in Figure 5. Pink edges of two and one-half inch circle and sew to center of top section, as shown, with cotton wadding stuffing underneath. Baste top of box to upper side section with insides facing and raw edges even. Bind raw edges together with bias. Join bottom of box to lower side section in the same manner. Place fittings for the case in elastic holders as shown in the accompanying picture.