[Vol48 | November 1961 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Aprons | Author: Daynes]
Aprons for 1. And Mrs. Santa Claus Carol Daynes QU BRISTMAS aprons gaily trimmed to represent Mr. And Mrs. Santa Claus will delight your children at Christmastime and give them endless opportunities for pantomime and play. 9 raw aa Mrs. SANTA CLaus APRON Each square in the pattern represents two inches, but the apron can be made smaller or larger as desired. Using a paper pattern which you can cut from the idea represented in_ the accompanying sketch, make the apron of red and white striped cotton material. The neckband and strings are made of oneinch twill cotton, the neckband being MR. SANTA CLAUS twenty-four inches long, and the strings for tying the apron about twenty inches each. Patterns for the faces may be cut from a child's coloring book or from newspaper or magazine illustrations of Mr. And Mrs. Santa Claus. Use felt, fabric, or iron-on materials for the faces. Fabric adhesive may be used for attaching felt or other material not already prepared for attaching. Coors Faces — pink Hair — white Eyes — black Mouths — red Holly — red and green Lace — white Beard — white Cap — red and white Nose — red pompon K Chuikimas eRe te Betty Lou Martin LUFFY, white snowflakes danced merrily down from heaven, making the ground a mass of white. Julie Carroll smiled as she remembered her youngest son Scottie's description of the snow. "The ground is like one great big birthday cake, Mommy," he said, "with lots of fluffy, white frosting, and the lights in the houses are its candles." How two boys can be so different, Julie surmised. Roger, nine, and the elder of the two Carroll children, was a realist. To him, black was black and white was white, with no deliberations. Scottie, on the other hand, was an incurable dreamer. He was also blessed with a sincere compassion and love for other people that reached beyond his six years. Often Julie was amazed at the wisdom and understanding that he showed for others. Julie went to the kitchen and began preparing dinner. Her thoughts were filled with the coming Christmas holiday. She, too, was an incurable dreamer, and her soul was full of love and good will that prevail during that season. If only we would open up our hearts and give our love all during the year instead of just during Christmas time, what a wonderful world this would be, she reasoned. "Scottie, don't slam the door like that, honey," Julie called out. "Be sure that your feet are clean. I don't want you to track snow all over the linoleum." "They're clean, Mommy," Scottie said, "but the dog's aren't." Page 748 "Oh, Scottie, I told you not to let him in the house. Teddy will just have to stay outside. Now, young man, would you mind telling me where you have been spending all of your time lately?" "Just outside playing in the snow." Scottie pulled an unco-operative Teddy by the collar and led him toward the back door. After dinner that night, Blair Carroll pulled on his overcoat and galoshes. "I've got to go over to old Mr. Wright's place. He just appointed me his lawyer today, and I have some legalities to go over with him. I don't know why he picked me. Personally, I would just as soon not have anything to do with him. I hear he is such a disagreeable old man." "He sure is, Dad," Roger spoke up. "If any of us even go near his house, he comes out and hollers and screams at us." "Now, Roger, you know very well that Mr. Wright is old, and he has been alone for many years. He likes his peace and quiet, and I don't want to hear you talk like that about him," Julie reprimanded her son. It was a well-known fact that Mr. Wright was a man of means. It was also apparent that he carried on business transactions at his home, as men often went there to confer with him. Julie was, however, a little surprised that he should choose Blair as his lawyer. "Christmas is next week, Mom," Roger spoke up. "When can we put our Christmas tree up?" "We'll put it up just as soon as A CHRISTMAS TO REMEMBER Daddy has time to get it, dear." Julie was excited about Christmas, too. She was worse than the children. Blair always teased that her eyes lighted up more than a child's over Christmas, and she always teased back that everyone was a child at heart. FTER Scottie had said his prayers that night and was about to climb into bed, he put his arms around Julie's neck and looked into her eyes. "Mommy, we are all God's children aren't we?" he asked and Julie could see the seriousness in his deep blue eyes. "Yes, we are, honey, everyone, and God loves us all." "Golly, ''m glad, Mommy," Scottie said. Julie detected a note of relief in Scottie's voice. There he goes again, Julie thought. I wonder whom he is worrying about this time. The next few days Julie was busy cleaning, helping the children get the Christmas tree trimmed, and trying to do some last minute shopping. The air was filled with the happy voices of the children, as they laughed and whispered about the presents that they had for Julie and Blair. Even Roger, the realist, was mysterious, but Scottie was so mysterious that Julie was almost concerned. He disappeared for periods of time and didn't come home until just before dinner. When they would question him about where he had been, he would only casually remark, "Just playing with Teddy." The day before Christmas came in true tradition, with a soft flurry of snow. The house was aglow with Christmas, with gaily wrapped packages 749 under the beautifully decorated tree. The fragrant smell of the pine mixed with the warm odors of cookies and pies baking. As Julie walked by the living room door, she caught sight of Scottie sitting on the floor in front of the Christmas tree. He was staring up at it as if deep in thought. "What are you thinking, Scottie?" Julie asked, as she kneeled down on the floor beside her son. She put her arm about his shoulders and turned his face toward her. "Christmas is such a pretty time, Mommy. I just wish everyone could be happy." Scottie spoke soft- I "I know, darling. I was just wishing that same thing," Julie replied. "Christmas is the time when more than any other time, we need someone to love and someone who loves us. It is a time when no one should be alone." "Gee, Mommy, I just don't want anyone in the whole world to be alone at Christmas." There were tears in Scottie's eyes. "It makes me feel so sad." Julie felt the tears come to her own eyes. She hugged him to her. "You are such a sweet little boy, Scottie, and your father and I love you very much. Remember, dear, always to be as thoughtful and considerate as you are right now, and God will always be with you." LAIR arrived home early that night. "Pll build a fire in the fireplace while you're finishing dinner,' he volunteered. It was a tradition in the Carroll household that every Christmas Eve should be spent at home, gathered around the fire, toasting marshmal- 750 lows and listening to Christmas music. Then just before it was time to retire, in the stillness of night, Blair would read from the Bible the story of the first Christmas, of that time long ago when Christ was born. "Blair, call the children. Dinner is ready now," Julie called out. Roger and Blair came and sat down at the table. "Where is Scottie?" Julie inquired. "I thought that he was in here with you," Blair answered. "Roger, don't you know where your brother is?" "Golly, Dad, the last time that I saw him, he was in his room wrapping a present, but that was about an hour and a half ago," Roger replied. Anxiety gripped Julie's heart. Where would a little boy go alone on Christmas Eve? "Now don't worry, Julie," Blair said, as he and Roger bundled up to go and look for Scottie. "Roger and I will find him in no time. You just stay here and wait." "No, Blair. I'm going to help look for Scottie. I just can't stay here and wait." The air was refreshing as Julie trudged along through the snow. Somewhere in the night a Christmas carol rang out, "Oh, come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant." Now and again the laughter of a happy child was clearly audible. Julie continued on down the block, checking at each of the houses. They hadn't seen Scottie all evening, they said. "Scottie, Scottie," Julie called, hoping to hear him answer, "Here Iam, Mommy," but there was only silence. Julie paused directly in front of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1961 Mr. Wright's house. She had checked everyone else in the neighborhood. If Blair and Roger hadn't had any more success than she, they would have to call the police. Julie didn't know why she looked up, but her eyes caught sight of something in Mr. Wright's window. It was a star with blue lights on it and a miniature angel in the center. Why that is just like the decoration that I had last year for my window, Julie reasoned. I decided to use a different one this year. How odd, Mr. Wright has never been known to decorate for Christmas before. ULIE tried the latch on the gate in front of Mr. Wright's house. It was open. She made her way up to the porch. It is a long shot, she surmised, but it is certainly worth a try. She rang the doorbell, and Mr. Wright, a short gray-haired man, with piercing dark eyes, answered the door. "Mr. Wright, I'm sorry to bother you, especially on Christmas Eve, but I've lost my little boy, Scottie." Julie's voice trembled. "I don't suppose by chance that you have seen him?" "You must be Mrs. Carroll.' Mr. Wright actually smiled at Julie. "Come in, won't you. Scottie is here. I thought that you knew that he had been coming over here." Julie followed Mr. Wright through the foyer, and then into the ' study, where Scottie sat before the cheery fire. Scottie looked up at his mother. "Hi, Mommy, I just came for a minute to bring Mr. Wright his Christmas present." "Why didn't you tell me where you were going, darling? We've A CHRISTMAS TO REMEMBER been so worried about you." Julie hurried over to Scottie. "I didn't think you would let me come, Mommy. Mr. Wright is my very best friend, and you said that people shouldn't be alone at Christmas. I didn't want my best friend to be alone on Christmas Eve." Scottie's little face was downcast. "I guess that you're going to scold me, Mommy." Julie looked at Scottie and then at Mr. Wright. She realized then that Mr. Wright was not the disagreeable old man that everyone had made him out to be, but rather a lonely soul, with the need to be loved. "It's all right, darling. I wouldn't scold you for anything, but I think that you had better come home now. Your Daddy and Roger are out looking for you, too. We'd better let them know that you are all right," Julie said gently. "Tm sorry, Mrs. Carroll. I wouldn't have caused you this concern for anything. Scottie and I have been friends since this fall. He has really been wonderful company to a lonely old man like me. I hope that you will let him continue to come and see me." "Of course he may, Mr. Wright," Julie answered sincerely. "Oh, and Scottie, I have a present for you,' Mr. Wright said. He went to the closet and brought out a large box wrapped in bright colors of red and green. "Your Mommy will probably have to help you carry it home. It is for your brother, Roger, too." 'CTINHANK you, Mr. Wright," Scottie said. "I hope that you will like what I gave to you. I made it myself." "I'm sure I shall." 751 Scottie turned to Julie. "Mommy, can't I please stay for just a minute more. Mr. Wright and I were going to read the story of the birth of the little baby Jesus just like we always do at home." Scottie's eyes pleaded with Julie. "Scottie, your Daddy will be worrying about us both by now. I have a better idea." Julie turned to Mr. Wright. "Mr. Wright, we are just about to have our dinner, and we would be honored if you would join us, then, afterward, we can all hear the story of the birth of Jesus together." Mr. Wright hesitated, and there were tears in his eyes. "Mrs. Carroll, 'm just an old man, and I don't want to interrupt any family affair, especially not tonight." "You won't be interrupting any family affair, Mr. Wright. We want you to come. Besides, it seems that Scottie has already taken you into our family, and you're a part of it, whether you want to be or not." As Julie walked toward home with Mr. Wright and Scottie, she knew that this would be a Christmas that she would long remember, after her sons were grown up and gone. She knew, too, that she had been taught a lesson in unselfishness, love, and understanding, taught by her own little son. She had been so wrapped up in her own family affairs that it never occurred to her to look elsewhere, to reach out and help someone who was alone and lonely at Christmas. Julie felt Scottie's small hand go into hers. It had stopped snowing now, and as she looked up toward heaven, one star shone more brightly than the others, and it seemed to Julie that its rays reached down from above and embraced Scottie.

First Snow in the Tllountains Cynthia Hepburn Nuffer HE was an Easterner and not S prepared for it. Even though everyone in the canyon had said that there was always snow in September, and although these past few nights she had had to get up sleepily in the dark for the extra quilt, still she felt a sense of doom as she looked out on that gray morning. She hadn't expected to feel this way. Last winter had been very happy. She remembered all the pleasant things: the cozy fire in the stove, the soft, shining look the lamps had given the log walls, the salmon color of the frosted mountains at dawn. All that morning as she went about her work, the snow fell unrelenting outside. Her husband was invigorated by it. The crisp air made him feel like working, he said. The children talked about it in happy, high voices. They decided that it was Christmas come early. And she, the one who was supposed to be sensitive, the poet in the family, felt only the coming burdens of cold feet and hands to warm, snowsuits to put on and take off, and shivering trips out to the shed for wood. The house was chilly because the oil heater hadn't been connected, so she moved the baby's crib out in the kitchen by the stove and rearranged the rest of the room to use up the extra chairs the crib had displaced. For lunch she and the boys had hot soup, drinking it quickly since it was cold at the table by the window. 'The boys went upstairs for Page 752 their naps, and when the home was quiet, she lay down and slept under two heavy blankets. When she awakened the snow had stopped and she could hear the dogs get up from the porch and stiffly stretch. OMEHOW she felt relieved and better. She wasn't sure why. Her mind was easy again, though, and she guessed almost indifferently, as one dismisses a mood, that she had just been tired and the rest had been all she needed. Most of the snow melted in the night, and the next day it was warm enough to go out without a coat. None of the willows or grasses had been winter-killed. The day was gold and green until she looked up at the mountains and saw them glossy-white, still, like a giant photograph pasted on the sky. She washed her sheets that afternoon and hung them out, luxuriating in the softness of the warm air. Then a small cold wind from the mountains knifed into her shoulders and she quickly went back to the shelter of the house. In a few days all the snow was gone, but throughout the rest of the hazy, pine-velveted Indian summer, the memory of the first snow remained. It sharpened the shadows of the trees, shortened each sunwarmed day, and showed how important were the ways in which she filled those days. With the winter clothes and the extra quilts, she brought out her extra love, for at last she understood the meaning of the poignancy of autumn.