[Vol48 | November 1961 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: First | Author: Nuffer]
[First Snow in the Mountains Cynthia Hepburn Nuffer]
set  apart  as  a  visiting  teacher  for  the  first 
time  in  1913,  still  am  one,  and  it  will  be 
forty-nine  years  soon.  I  am  seventy-nine 
years  old  and  also  cut  blocks,  sew  them 
together,  and  make  quilt  tops  for  the 
Relief  Society.  The  Magazine  has  won- 
derful lessons  in  all  the  departments.  I 
may  never  see  any  of  you,  but  I  am  here 
praying  for  you  all  ...  a  pioneer  member 
of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission, 
— Mary  E.  Morris 
Prineville,  Oregon 
May  I  express  my  appreciation  for  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine.  It  seems  to  get 
better  all  the  time.  I  can  certainly  urge 
and  recommend  it  to  all  of  the  sisters 
whom  I  meet  in  the  mission  field.  Our 
missionaries  use  the  Magazine  very 
effectively  in  preaching  the  gospel. 
— Ada  S.  Christiansen 
President 
Western  States  Mission 
Relief  Society 
Denver,  Colorado 
The  striking  cover  for  the  September 
(1961)  issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine, showing  Canyon  de  Chelly,  Arizona 
(color  transparency  by  \\'illard  Luce),  is 
a  most  beautiful  combination  of  light  and 
shadow  that  only  an  artist  can  emphasize, 
even  in  a  photograph. 
— Leona  \V.  Rasmuson 
Logan,  Utah 
I  would  like  to  express  my  heartfelt 
thanks  for  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
Four  years  ago  my  mother-in-law  gave  it 
to  her  five  daughters  for  our  birthdays, 
and  has  continued  to  subscribe  for  us 
each  year.  I  always  read  the  Magazine 
from  cover  to  cover,  and  the  messages 
and  materials  are  priceless  to  me.  It  is 
wonderful  to  belong  to  Relief  Society  and 
I  wish  ev^eryone  could  attend. 
— Roene  A.  Dickinson 
Panguitch,  Utah 
I  did  enjoy  Camilla  Eyring  Kimball's 
"Reminiscings"  in  the  July  issue  and 
''Let  This  Be  Said"  (June  1961)  written  for 
Sister  McKay  by  Alberta  H.  Christensen. 
I  receive  much  uplift  from  the  wisdom 
and  strength  of  Sister  Sharp's  editorial 
messages,  and  the  delightful  "worthwhile- 
ness"  of  Sister  Madsen's  editorials.  Sister 
Crawford's  editorial  "The  Ripening  of 
the  Wheat"  (July)  is  reall\-  a  lovely  poem 
—  with  the  father  and  daughter  before  the 
field  of  wheat. 
— Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
Dayton,  Idaho 
Each  month  I  thoroughly  enjoy  every 
part  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  To 
me,  it  touches  every  aspect  of  a  woman's 
life,  giving  much  to  ponder  and  medi- 
tate upon,  so  much  spiritual  uplift,  an 
insight  into  other  lives  which  helps  us 
to  understand  ourselves  better,  and  en- 
couragement for  creativitv. 
— Mrs.  Rosalie  S.  Christensen 
Brigham  City,  Utah 
I  wouldn't  be  without  the  inspiration 
of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  —  such 
clean,  wholesome,  inspiring  literature,  and 
I  love  every  bit  of  it.  I  read  and  reread 
it  from  cover  to  cover.  For  me,  there 
really  is  no  special  department,  unless  it 
could  be  the  lessons.  They  mean  so 
much  to  me. 
— Mrs.  Thelma  Xeilson 
Price,  Utah 
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  tell  you  what  a  help  and  a  blessing  the 
Magazine  has  been,  as  it  comes  into  our 
home  each  month.  So  many  of  the  stories 
have  been  such  that  they  might  well  apply 
to  our  life  here.  The  Magazine  has  been 
a  constant  source  of  inspiration  in  my  task 
of  homemaking.  Each  time  a  new  issue 
arrives,  the  day  does  not  end  without  a 
portion  of  the  contents  being  read 
thoroughly. 
— Mrs.  Ileen  Purcell 
Idaho  Falls,  Idaho 
Page  714