[Vol48 | November 1961 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Message — "And Let Every Man Deal Honestly" Christine H. Robinson]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
765 
Questions  for  Discussion 
1.  What  were  some  of  the  conditions 
at  Thompson,  Ohio,  which  resulted  in  the 
Lord  giving  Section  54? 
2.  According  to  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  which  enemies  are  to  be  feared 
most,  those  within  the  person  or  those 
who  would  inflict  personal  injury  upon 
one? 
3.  What  does  it  mean  to  be  ''patient  in 
tribulation"? 
4.  Name  some  values  for  those  who  have 
built  up  a  "spiritual  reservoir"  within 
themselves. 
5.  As  brought  out  in  this  lesson  and 
from  your  own  thinking,  what  can  the 
members  of  the  Relief  Society  contribute 
to  the  welfare  of  young  and  old  who 
are  seeking  the  Lord  early? 
ViSiting  cJeacher    1 1  iessages — 
Truths  to  Live  By  From  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Message  37  -  "And  Let  Every  Man  Deal  Honestly"  (D  &  C  51:9). 
Christine  H.  Robinson 
For  Tuesday,  February  6,  1962 
Objective:     To  show  that  honesty  is  the  foundation  of  individual  and  universal 
character. 
"l^HAT  an  ideal  place  this  world 
would  be  if  all  men  followed 
the  commandment,  as  found  in  the 
D  &  C  51:9,  and  dealt  honestly  one 
with  another.  If  each  individual 
and  each  nation  could  trust  each 
other  implicitly,  there  would  be  no 
more  wars  nor  contention  in  the 
land.  Neighbors  would  live  peace- 
ably and  amicably  together,  for 
''One  who  is  honest  ...  is  always 
disposed  to  act  with  careful  regard 
for  the  rights  of  others,  and  will  do 
nothing  unworthy  of  his  own  in- 
herent nobility  of  soul"  (Fernald, 
Synonyms,  page  239). 
Most  conscientious  individuals 
think  of  themselves  as  being  honest 
and,  if  their  honesty  were  ques- 
tioned, they  would  be  offended. 
Why  then,  has  the  Lord  given  us 
this  commandment?  Is  dishonesty 
a  character  weakness  limited  only  to 
the  so-called  wicked? 
Certainly,  the  general  over-all  pat- 
tern of  our  hves  is  built  around 
honesty;  however,  when  we  examine 
all  the  different  facets  of  the  word, 
we  begin  to  realize  that  strict  and 
complete  honesty  is  difficult  to 
practice.  It  has  been  said  that 
Diogenes,  a  well-known  Greek  phi- 
losopher, maintained  that  a  strictly 
honest  person  was  impossible  to 
find.  To  illustrate  his  conviction, 
it  was  said:  ''He  went  about  the 
streets  of  Corinth  in  broad  daylight 
with  a  lighted  lantern  looking  for  an 
honest  man." 
Most  of  us  exhibit  honestv  in  our 
dealings  with  the  big  things  in  life. 
It  is  in  the  seeming  trifles  of  daily 
living  that  our  honesty  is  most 
seriously  challenged.  For  example, 
these  seeming  trifles  include  the  lit- 
tle untruths  which,  at  the  moment, 
seem  unimportant,  exaggerations 
that   make  things   appear  different