[Vol48 | November 1961 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: Christmas | Author: Jennings]
[Christmas Gifts Jean Ridges Jennings]

Claes I aaemnen Melba Larson HE Christmas holidays that bring back the most pleasant memories are those that happened during our childhood. Christmas was not for a day, but for days of much happiness, days of planning, a whole season of creativity. Mothers were sewing, making aprons, doll clothes, baking fruit cakes and cookies, and making decorations, while fathers were in the workshop making little surprises. Children were busy stringing popcorn and cranberries, making stars, chains, and birds out of paper for Christmas trees, for they, too, wanted to share in this wonderful occasion. It was a time for families to do things together. Christmas decorations need not cost a great deal of money. If we take time, and with every hand making some of the trimmings, great enjoyment can be found. Keep your eyes open during the year and be aware of materials that you can use to help make your decorations. When you are in the mountains, gather pine cones and leaves; in the desert and plains, weeds, seed pods, foliage; near the rivers and swamps, cattails. Watch for foliage and pods in the neighborhood where you live. Many beautiful artificial materials are available in gift and florist shops, also in variety stores. There should be harmony in your decorations, with contrast and variety playing an important part. By using straight pine needles and round Christmas balls, you get contrast. Red and green are contrasts Page 734 in color. A shiny red satin bow is a contrast for a prickly green holly wreath. Take time in the planning of your decorations. Sketch out in rough, your general scheme. Then check with your stockpile of gatherings of the year to determine what you have to work with and then, if necessary, buy materials to complete your theme. Plan and shop early. The Front Door A beautifully decorated front door should be one of your first objectives in decorating at yuletide. It is a way to say "Merry Christmas" to friends and neighbors, and also to let the passerby know that Christmas is at your house. There are many ways to decorate the front door. Your plans should take into consideration the style of the house. Use your imagination to do something different, instead of the usual pine branches and cones. Try making a garland of gilded pine cones, locust tree pods, and magnolia leaves, a Della Robbia wreath, or a grouping of straw bells. Inside the House The decorations inside the house should begin with the mantel, if you have one. This can set the style of the room's decorations. The style of the mantel should determine whether you use heavy pine cones and branches or Della Robbia wreaths, with heavy fruits, nuts, pods, or delicate nylon net trees. If there are young children in the family, plan your decorations for CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS them, using felt stockings, Santas, reindeer, candy canes, and snow men. A similar or related piece could be made for a low table or chest in the same room. The Christmas Table The decoration on the Christmas table should harmonize with everything used on the table, and with the color scheme of the entire house. 'Table centerpieces that can be made well in advance and will. Keep all through the holidays are a wise choice for busy women. There are other focal points in the house where decorating can become very imaginative and interesting. The following are suggested decorations that may help make your Christmas merry and full of cheer. CENTERPIECE Palm Leaves and Tiny Red Flowers Materials Needed: 3 red candles (1 - 15", 2 - 10") 1% doz. Sprays of small artificial red flowers 12 palm or cycas leaves (small size) 6 green chenille stems 1 piece green Styrofoam 8" x 6" x 2" 6 large balls — red 18 red Christmas balls (assorted sizes on stems) glitter glue diamond dust Step 1. Anchor candles to styro with florist clay, use tallest in center. Step 2. Push leaves into styro, short ones in front and back, and long ones at sides, and spray some of them from top side. Step 3. Fill in with the sprays of the small flowers (should be about 6" long). Step 4. Arrange the Christmas balls, using larger sizes on top and around the candles. Remove hooks; use a piece of chenille for a stem. Push chenille into styro and slip ball on chenille stem. 735 CENTERPIECE Palm Leaves and Tiny Red Flowers Step 5. Place the stemmed balls in arrangement, keeping the smallest for outer edge. Step 6. When centerpiece is finished, spray all over with glitter glue and dust lightly with diamond dust. This is a very pretty arrangement used on a low table where you look down on it and get the full benefit of the frosty look. Caution: Be sure to put this arrangement on a tray or piece of foil, as hot candle wax will go right through Styrofoam and would mar a lovely table top. CooKi£E TREE A cookie tree is a fun thing to have in your kitchen at Christmas, loaded with cookies for your children or grandchildren. Make sugar or wreath cookies with holes in the center so they may be slipped on the poles of the tree. 'This can also be used for doughnuts.. This is a_ project that the children can help make. Let the older boys or Father help with the woodwork. The older girls in the family could do the painting and decorating. Let the little children help make the cookies; the shapes may not be as perfect, but they will taste just as good, and the children will love doing it. 736 COOKIE TREE Materials Needed: Cut 2 pieces 2" doweling 12" long 1 piece "2" doweling 20" long 1 piece 172" x 1" x 16" long 1 piece 3%" square, 2" thick Paint: fruit, berries, leaves for decorations. Step 1. Drill a hole to fit the doweling through the center of the 16" board. Also drill a hole only half through 2" from either end. Step 2. Drill a hole only %" deep in the middle of the 3/2" x 2" square board. Put wood glue in hole, set in the 20" dowel. Step 3. Put glue around the drilled center hole of the 1%" x 16" board and slip over the 20" to within 4" from the base of the 3%" square. Step 4. Glue the two 12" dowels into the partially drilled holes on the 16" board. Make sure all poles are straight and let glue dry. Step 5. Paint green, black, or bright red. 'Trim with artificial fruit, berries, leaves, etc. The cookie tree pictured is painted green and trimmed with bright red apples. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1961 WHITE AND GOLD SLEIGH - can be used for a centerpiece for a Christmas table, chest, or a low table. Materials Needed: I piece white Styrofoam—12" x 24" x 1" 1 straw sleigh 1. Piece Styrofoam 4" x 6" x 2" or 2 oF 3 small pieces to fill in sleigh 1 reindeer (white plastic) can be purchased at variety store. The reindeer come in straw, too, but they are quite expensive. "2, doz. Small gold leaves 1 doz. Large gold leaves 1 string small gold beads 3 bunches gold balls, shaped like grapes 6 yards gold metallic ribbon %" wide 4 white balls — these come pearlized and are very effective 6 gold balls on stems 6 white pipe cleaners (cut in 3" lengths) glitter glue or Wilhold glue diluted with water diamond dust Step 1. Spray or paint with glue, large (12" x 24") piece of Styrofoam. Glitter with diamond dust. Let dry thoroughly. Step 2. Paint sleigh with white paint. Let dry. Spray or paint with glue and glitter with the diamond dust and dry. Step 3. Spray or paint reindeer with glitter glue and dust. Let dry. Step 4. Place piece 4" x 6" or small pieces of Styrofoam inside of sleigh. Step 5. Start to decorate — placing one bunch of grapes at the opening on end of sleigh, lettmg them spray forward out of sleigh. Place other cluster of grapes on top of sleigh (anchor to Styrofoam with pipe cleaner) and fill in with the white (pearlized) balls and the gold balls on stems. Use large gold leaves to fill in around balls and cover up Styrofoam that is inside of sleigh. Cut string of small beads in half and knot together. Use one part to put in and around some of the balls on top of sleigh, letting some drape down the back of sleigh. Step 6. Trim the deer. Make him a saddle of the small gold leaves, 3 on each CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS WHITE AND side; also use remaining gold balls on stems, and glue on his back. Use gold beads on string and drape around as a harness and bridle. 'Trim his horns and hoofs with some beads. Make two 3- looped bows of the gold ribbon and glue on top of his saddle. Step 7. Make 2 bows and 2 sprays of GOLD SLEIGH 737 leaves and glue at opposite corners of Styrofoam. Step 8. Glue hoofs of deer to Styrofoam. Secure sleigh with 3" piece of pipe cleaner pushed over the rudder of sleigh well into the Styrofoam. Place gold ribbon completely around edge of styro, gluing or securing with pins. Win ter Mlorning Christie Lund Coles ° The winter sun is coming up Like a gold, blue-saucered cup; And birds which did not go away, Are nagging at the brittle day While kapok snow is falling from The trees which once held flower and plum, Though all the white, translucent puff Which clings to boughs, is flower enough And jewels are resplendent, bright, Reflecting day's effulgent light. This hour is beauty consummate: I think I'll bake a golden cake. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1901 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF Att NaTIOoNs" OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT: This certifies that at the regular meeting of the Council of the Apostles, held in the Salt Lake Temple, this 17th day of October, 1901... Joseph F. Smith was chosen and set apart as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. IN MEMORIAM — PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW:... President Snow was indeed a very remarkable man, and his long life and eventful career emphasized those characteristics which were so conspicuous in his later manhood.... On the demise of President Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, then President of the Quorum of the Apostles, became by right of succession, President of the Church... September 13, 1898.... His life has been full of noble work well and faithfully performed. He was possessed of superior executive ability and... Was a man of fine intellectuality, a vigorous writer, a student of classical literature all his life, fond of reading and passionately fond of music of the best quality, a patron of the fine arts and altogether a man of culture and refinement in its highest and best sense. His labors among the people since he became President of the Church have been incessant and arduous.... AN EVENING PRAYER Let not my heart on earthly things be bent, Then, if Thy will denies them, I shall be content. Let me remember that all mortals here Are like myself in Thine own image dear; Then in my dealings with them, Thou shalt see, I'll do as I would have them do by me: —Adelaide Schmidt Wayland LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING: The Ladies' Semi-Monthly meeting was held in the 14th Ward hall... With President M. I. Horne presiding.... Counselor Elizabeth J. Stevenson said when she came intc the room she thought, "O ye faithful ones!" There are always a few faithful.... We must abide by the golden tule, "Do to others as we wish to be done by," not be jealous, but be prepared to stand in holy places.... Sister R. R. Grant felt happy to meet with her sisters.... She had received a letter from her son H. J. Grant, that he was on ship board, was well and blessed of the Lord. BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION IN HAWAII: Liliuokalani, formerly queen of Hawaii, recently celebrated her sixty-second birthday by giving several entertainments at which hundreds of natives and a few whites were present. Three hundred guests breakfasted with the deposed queen and then came a general reception. In the afternoon there was a great luau, or feast.. The food was served on mats on the ground, and the staple articles were poi and raw fish. —News Note A DISPATCH FROM NORWAY: A dispatch from Christiana... Says: "The privilege recently granted women to vote for, and sit in municipal councils in Norway is adding unusual interest to the approaching elections...." —News Note Page 738 PrELISA RINCON DE GAUTIER is the mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico. A shrewd politician and a concerned, motherly woman, she works in behalf of city improvements and to meet the economic needs of the poverty-stricken. "We have to work here so that people will have reason to love, not hate," she says. HELEN WOODWARD'S new book The Lady Persuaders (Ivan Obolensky, Inc., publisher) details the history of American women's magazines, with particular emphasis on Godey's Lady's Book (1836-1877) and Ladies. Home Journal (1889 - ). Interesting comparisons are made between the early women's magazines and those of current publication. USAN BALDWIN, I eighteenyear-old amateur thespian from scarsdale, New York, who is studying to be a social worker, played the part of Emily in Thornton Wilder's Our Town in Amsterdam, Holland, this past summer. She was one of fifteen hundred young American performers sent overseas by schools, foundations, parents, and_ service clubs, to break down barriers between Americans and other peoples.