[Vol46 | August 1959 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V46_08_00_CONTENTS]
SPECIAL FEATURES President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor m the First Presidency ....Marion G. Romney 
493 President Henry Dmwoodey Moyle, Second Counselor in the First Presidency....Harold B. Lee 
499 How Can We Efiectively Delegate Responsibility? Belle S Spaftod 
501 The New England Mission Preston R. Nibley 
506 Fresh Up With Sunday ^---^ -:,--, 
516 Annual Report for 1958 Hulda Parker 
526
FICTION "A" Is for Apron—Part I Hene H. Kingsbury 
508 The Silver Leash—Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Beatrice Rordame Parsons 
522
GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 
490 Sixty Years Ago 
512 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 
513 Editorial: Reverence Louise W. Madsen 
514 Notes to the Field: The Annual General Relief Society Conference 
516 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 
536 Birthday Congratulations 
568 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the New England Mission Margaret Romney Jackson 
518 Filing Photographs Elizabeth Williamson 
520 Frances White Poulson Has Enriched Her Life With Hobbies 
521 Of Royal Birth Kate Richards 
567
LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Theology — "... Thou Shalt Not Command Him Who Is at Thy Head . . ."....Roy W. Doxey 
543 Visiting Teacher Messages — "And Again I Say Unto You, Let Every Man Esteem His Brother as Himself" Christine H. Robinson 
549 Work Meeting — Electricity Charlotte A. Larsen 
551 Literature — Benjamin Franklin, Printer (1703-179D) Briant S. Jacobs 
553 Social Science — Developing Emotional Maturity Blaine M. Porter 559

Poetry
POETRY Enfolding Quietude — Frontispiece Rente H. Littlewood 489 Fair Exchange Maude Rubin 511 Beginning Gwen Marler Ba.ney 515 Delayed Homecoming Alice R. Rich 515 Jimmy Meets His New Sister Elsie McKinnon Strachan 520 Kitchen Glamour Camille C. Nuffer 521 Some Strange Reward Ida Elaine James 53S Challenge Vesta N. Lukei 542 Staff for the Aged ....Mabel Law Atkinson 550 Builders Delia Adams Leitner 566 Jarring Note Ethel Jacobson 567 Philharmonic Undertones Lillian E. Miles 567 Seagulls Have Returned Christie Lund Coles 568 VOL. 46 NO. 8 6n olding QO wietude Renie H. Littlewood How deep the quietude enfolding hills Where crystal lakes lie jeweled in the sun
Where muted vespers of the stream-locked rills Lull wearying cares into oblivion. Here peace walks with a sure and tempered tread Through purpling shadows cast by sunlit peaks, Or rests in cool tranquilitics that spread In ever-widening circles as she speaks. To ears grown overtired of raucous din, Her soothing whisperings hold but healing powers
With her pulsating heart all hearts are kin, They garner strength to meet the thundering hours. While dissonant living all its clamor spills, How deep the quietude enfolding hills.

The Cover: Minuteman Statue at Concord, Massachusctts Colourpicture Publishers, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts Frontispiece: Mount Timpanogos, Utah, View From the East Side Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Srom lear and Sar I should like to pay a tribute to Preston Nibley, our Assistant Church Historian, for the excellent articles he contributes about the missions of the Church. I read them with much interest each month. His article about the Central States Mission in March 1959 was exceptionally interesting because of a recent visit my husband and I made there. Our party met with Brother Dyer in the mission home and he bore a strong testimony of the gospel. We did not, however, have the privilege of visiting Adam-ondi-Ahman, so I was happy to see the picture of this sacred spot. —Aletha Lowe Handy Franklin, Idaho How splendid is every article, story, and poem in the June issue of the Magazine. And how good to get a glimpse of 'Cleve. Land, Ohio, on the cover! I correspond with a poet friend there, but had never pictured the city as it is. "The Handcart Child" by Orvene B. Holman gave me special pleasure, as did 'For Grandmothers Who Baby Sit" by Camilla Woodbury Judd, and "The Humming Bird" by Wlnona Frandsen 'Thomas. I so loved "Country Summer" by Rodello Hunter — it took me back to when my twin sister and I were seventeen. '"'Green-Willow Days" by Shirley Sealy is wonderful, and 'The Ladder of Love" by Margaret Russell is poignantly sweet and strong and beautifully given. I am grateful to Vernessa M. Nagle for "The Pansy-Picker,"' and to Gwen Marler Barney for the truth so lyrically expressed in "Where the Gull Goes." —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho "The Ladder of Love" by Margaret Russell in the June Magazine appeals to us as a gem of a story, beautifully written, and expressing deep and fundamental truth, —L. Paul Roberts and Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah Page 490 I do not want to miss a single copy of the Magazine — especially the one for July, as I am interested in the continued story "The Silver Leash" (by Beatrice R. Parsons). I particularly enjoy the beautiful poems and also every article in the Magazine. —Mrs. L. J. Dozier Odessa, Texas What fine essays and what excellent writing — "Green-Willow Days," by Shirley Sealy, and "The Pansy-Picker," by Vernessa M. Nagle, in the June issue of the Magazine. Such interesting subjects and such fine writing make the Magazine a delight to me. —Katherine S. Staples Kanosh, Utah The June Magazine is outstanding, from its pretty front cover to the luscious strawberry and sugar advertisement on the back. Florence Jepperson Madsen's tribute to fathers, and her own father, is touching. One of my friends up here said she lived next door to the Jeppersons, and in the article Brother Jepperson was depicted very truly. Christie Lund Coles' story ("One of Them') about the brave little crippled mother is so touching. 1 have always liked Christie's stories. I could mention each story and poem in the June - Magazine, for they are all first class, and I am proud to have mine among them ("Peach-Tree Poem''). —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Thank you very much for placing my hobby feature in The Relief Society Magazine (May 1959). I have taken the Magazine for thirty-five or forty years now I read it with a magnifying glass and appreciate it very much and wish it continued success. —Maggie R. Wood Fielding, Utah