[Vol46 | August 1959 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Frances | Author: Hobbies]
Frances White Prion #las Enriched Her of ife WVith Hobbies ee White Poulson, Hailey, Idaho, believes that a worthwhile hobby is a two-fold blessing. It enriches the one who plies the hobby and is a blessing to those who receive the gifts of lovely handwork. In the past three years she has made twenty-four quilts in unusual and original designs, beautifully stitched. She has made several crocheted bedspreads, afghans, doilies, pillowcases, and tablecloths. She is an expert with the knitting needles and loves to make sweaters and knitwear for babies and children. She has eight children, fourteen grandchildren, and eleven great-grandchildren. Mrs. Poulson has been a Relief Society worker for fifty years, and has devoted hifteen years to service as a visiting teacher. She is grateful for her ability to find hobbies that bring contentment and joy to her and give pleasure to her family and her friends. Kitchen Glamour Camille C. Nuffer I love the sunlight Through my windows streaming, Awakening each precious thing, From night's sweet dreaming. I'm sure a kitchen, Is a place divine. A sunbeam from heaven Each morning visits mine. Page 521 The Silver Leash Cuapter 8 (Conclusion) Beatrice Rordame Parsons ARUE knew that, now, there was no longer any reason to remain in Fivelakes. 'The Amelia Museum had been estabhshed and was moving steadily on to becoming a beautiful tourist attraction. Committees had been formed, and Herb was proud that he had been selected to head one of them. He was out of his wheelchair most of the time, nowadays, and back at his office and his drawing board. The children were fine, each busy with a task in refurnishing Hillhigh House. LaRue knew it was time to go back to the bank, to her neat, yet silent apartment, in San Francisco. She no longer thought of it as a refuge. Indeed, she was almost treluctant to take up her life away from Fivelakes. She knew she would miss everything and everyone terribly! Herb was working on the plans for the new children's wing, at the hospital. When he showed her the plans, LaRue saw the penciled drawings, which Dr. Alan had made upon the back of an envelope, coming to life. "Tll have to come back and see the old house, and that new wing during my next vacation," she said wistfully, and went to finish her packing. 'The little amber bottle still stood on the dressing table. She left it there, meaning to give it to Erma before she left. As usual, Connie crept into her room, and sat cross-legged in the Page 522 middle of the white bedspread watching LaRue put her things into her bags. Connie's small face was _ wistful. "I wish you didn't have to leave, Aunt LaRue. We're going to miss you." She looked as if she were going to cry, and LaRue tried to reassure her. "Tl be back next year, darling. And every year. "Not if you get married," stated Connie gloomily. "Maybe your husband will like San Francisco so much he won't let you come." LaRue laughed. "Connie, you're priceless. First you want me to get married and have a baby so that you can tend it. 'Then you don't want me to marry, at all!" Connie looked at her dubiously. "Well," she said slowly, "I wouldn't mind, if you married someone I knew." "I'd have to know him, too," LaRue playfully. In love with him." She scarcely caught Connie's tiny whisper. "I think you already are, Aunt LaRue!" But before she could speak, Connie said loudly: "Aunt LaRue, I don't gossip, now do I?" LaRue didn't quite understand the question. But she praised the child. "You've improved a very great deal, darling. I'm very glad." "Well, " asked Connie, a lingering doubt in her tone, "do you think said "I'd have to be THE SILVER LEASH it would be awful if I told you some gossip?" 'Then, as LaRue began to shake her head, she added brightly, "Some gossip you'd like to hear?" LaRue wasn't quite sure. "I wouldn't want to hear it, Connie, if it was something that would hurt someone. 'That sort of gossip is cruel." "But it isn't cruel," cried Connie eagerly, bouncing up and down until her brown braids whirled. "It's something terribly nice. About Gladys and Dr. Alan." ARUE hid her face in the clothes closet so that Connie could not see how it glowed at the mention of Alan's name. But she came steadily out and met Connie's childish gaze, though her heart was chilled. She said definitely: "No, Connie, even if it's very, very nice, I can't let you tell me." She wanted to ask if Gladys and Alan had made up, if Grandie and Herb were going ahead on the plans for the house in Maple Park. But she pressed her lips tightly, still shaking her head. "I can't go back on what I said, Connie. It's wrong to encourage gossip. Sometimes it's even cruel." It would be cruel to listen to Connie's gossip about the future plans of Gladys and Alan. She didn't want to think about them. Connie got slowly down off the bed. "All right, Aunt LaRue." She walked slowly to the door. "IT still wish you didn't have to pack." 'To hide her tears, she rushed outside to play with Atlast. The hours dragged until time for the bus. Although Herb would have driven her to the station, LaRue insisted on calling for a cab. It would be much easier, saying goodby to the family at home. 523 She hid the hot tears on her lashes as she walked out to the cab. 'The driver who had brought her to the house a few weeks before, greeted her with a smile as he put her luggage into the back of the taxi. His face was now smooth-shaven, minus the beard he'd worn to the festival. He guided the cab skillfully along the almost completed highway, and LaRue saw that the huge machinery had moved miles into the distance. The gray artery into Fivelakes was wide and smooth. Like a ribbon tying my heart to those I love, she thought whimsically, and knew that the days would seem long and lonely until she returned for a visit. The old house on the knoll seemed to smile down on her as they passed it, and she saw the beginnings of its rejuvenation in fresh lumber and paint. She stared at the giant mountains, her mind photographing every peak so that memory could not dim them. She wondered that she had ever found them cold, forbidding. When the driver set her bags inside the station she looked around at the green-plastic covered counter, at the Hopi Indian dolls nudging neighboring Spanish senoritas for a place on the shelves. The man behind the counter was no longer frightening in his heavy dark beard. He was clean-shaven, and his white jacket was spotless. They chatted for a few minutes, and he told her that her bus was on time. She had only fifteen minutes to wait. He gave her a fresh glass of ice water, and she sipped it, watching the hands of the clock move slowly into place.