[Vol46 | August 1959 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: President | Author: Lee]
PRESIDENT HENRY D. MOYLE President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle, - Second Counselor in the First Presidency Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve HEN a vacancy occurs in one of the presiding councils of the Church, it undoubtedly becomes a concern of the Head of the Church, even the Lord, to inspire the President of his Church to choose the man most nearly qualified to perform the service and to fill the need of the Church at that particular time. "No man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God as was Aaron,' by prophecy and by the laying on of hands by the President of the Church who holds the keys of that authority. With the passing of our beloved friend, and leader, President Stephen L Richards, there was an immediate realization of the void which his death had caused and of the difficulty involved in finding a man qualified to fill the vacancy in the Presidency of the Church. It was to this sacred duty that the President of the Church devoted himself. When to the special conference of youth leaders assembled in the 'Tabernacle on 'Temple Square on June 14, 1959, President David O. McKay announced his new second counsclor, Henry D. Moyle — which appointment, as the President explained, was inspired "from the proper source" — the Church realized that, literally, the Lord had put his hand upon the man needed for the work to be done by the hand of his servant, President David O. McKay, and Henry D. Moyle was that man. The call of President Moyle to this high service came as it had come to another man in ancient times through a prophet of another day to whom the Lord had said, "Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." The Lord knew the heart of this man, also, because he had been proved and tested and had not been found wanting. He was indeed the man of the hour! Now, as never before, we are being brought to realize that the Church and kingdom of God is a universal, world-wide organization with new stakes, new temples, and expanding missionary work, secking new frontiers in distant lands. Our new counselor brings vision and experience gained from extensive world travels and from dealing with varied problems of Church and business at home and abroad. Perhaps no service is dearer to his heart than missionary work, as witnessed by the fact that he, himself, has served as a missionary in Germany in_ his Page 499 500 youth and has a daughter and two sons who have served as missionaries (one presently serving in a South American Mission). 'These experiences, besides extensive tours of missions in the United States and foreign countrics, have given him a broad understanding of the probJems of the missionary work to which he has now been assigned in the Presidency. Perhaps only the Lord knows how many missionaries he, himself, has assisted, financially, from his own personal funds as he has traveled throughout the Church. The great Welfare program of the Church has come to its present development under the able chairmanship of President Movle who has been a courageous and forthright champion of this movement designed by the Lord to bring bread to the needy and succor to the unfortunate. It would not be an overstatement to say that this man whom God delights to honor, has practiced far beyond most men in giving and sharing that with which the Lord has blessed him that his brethren and sisters might be one with him in the kingdom of God. To pay tribute to our new leader, without including his lovely, gracious wife and companion, Alberta Wright Movle, would not be a complete nor adequate appraisal of his strength. She, who has been the inspiration of his life and has given him four lovely daughters and three RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 sons (one having died in infancy), was given to know years before that he would be called as an apostle of the Lord and of the preparation that she, herself, must make to be readied to stand by his side when that time should come. Only a kind Providence and those who intimately know her realize how well she has humbly accepted the high Church responsibilities of her companion as her mission also. As this man of God now becomes better known to the Church as one of the three presiding High Priests forming the quorum of the First Presidency, the membership of the Church will come to feel the great driving power of his soul, which was put in his own words on one occasion as he once said of himself, as he stood on a half-finished project he was promoting amidst great difficulties, "Well, at least they can never say of Henry Moyle that he never tried." 'That statement could well be the epitaph of his life. With faith and vision and the courage of his convictions, he counts "All that is not infinite, too small; and all that is not eternal, too short." May the membership of the Church now uphold with their faith and prayers the newly organized First Presidency which now includes Henry D. Moyle, and be willing to follow their counsel in righteousness! > We may sometimes find satisfaction in sharing our material wealth with others. But far greater satisfaction comes from sharing ourselves, our itme, our energy, our affection, and particularly in imparting to others our testimony of God, the power of God unto salvation, the knowledge we possess of God and his purposes. Are truly converted, we realize that ' When we this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3). —Elder Henry D. Moyle, Annual Conference Report, April 1957, page 32. How Can We Effectively Delegate Responsibility? Belle S. Spafford General President of Relief Society (Address Delivered at the National Association for Practical Nurse Education, April 29, 1959) N extending the invitation of the program committee to speak to you on the subject "How Can We Effectively Delegate Responsibility?" Miss Hilda 'Torrup wrote (and I quote from her letter): These people carry a heavy responsibility since many of them are officers of an association numbering from one thousand to five thousand members. They are burdened with such responsibilities as loyalty, unity, the responsibility of programming for many divisions within a state, the problems of getting and holding members, in fact, all of the things that make an organization go. With this statement as my guide, I shall attempt to bring to you a few ideas based on my experience in presiding over an international woman's organization with a wide variety of activities, and manned by volunteer workers, as are your organizations. 'This latter fact will color much that I say, since in dealing with volunteer workers, special problems are posed. 'The paid worker must meet the requirements of his job or he is discharged. He is primarily controlled in his service by his employer, who pays his salary. The volunteer worker gives of his time and talent purely for the satisfactions accruing therefrom, and is primarily controlled in his service by his own will to serve. Every organization exists for specific purposes. You are more familiar than am I with the purposes of your state practical nursing organizations, and their respective subdivisions. It would seem to me, however, that they must exist to promote practical nursing as a profession; to promote the interests and well-being of the licensed practical nurse as an individual and collectively, within the respective communities; to interpret to the community the place and importance of the licensed practical nurse in caring for the sick. 'They should expand the horizon of the nurse and increase her usefulness. 'They should serve as her servant and speak for her on matters related to practical nursing. If such values accrue to the nurse and her profession from the organization, one would think there would be no nurse within the community who would not wish to identify herself with the organization as a member. The problem lies in the fact, I believe, that some nurses do not recognize and appreciate the values to be found within the organization. Of course, there are always a few persons who are content to be consumers and not producers, who are ready to benefit from the work of the organization without making any contribution to it. There will always be a few such persons, but Page 501 502 we must take satisfaction in the fact that they are greatly in the minority. In building membership the task becomes largely one of helping the individual nurse to see the functions of the organization, the values to be found within it for her as an individual, and as a member of a professional group, as well as to see her individual responsibility toward the organization. 'This is a job of interpretation. Interpretation is most effectively — accomplished through personal contact among the knowledgeable person, the enthusiastic converted person, and the person whose membership enlistment is sought. It is also accomplished through publicity, newspayer articles, circular letters, the distribution of organization literature. It may be done through open sessions of conferences and conventions. It may be greatly helped through the support of training schools and hospitals. I commend to those of you who would build membership, the appointment of an enthusiastic, persuasive membership comunittee. LSO, I remind you it is human nature to want to be identified with a live organization, a going concern, one that holds attention, confidence, and respect within the community. No one wants to belong to a struggling, weak, ineffective, half-dead organization. The quality of the organization, the manner in which it is functioning, have tremendous bearing on membership. It has been said often that an organization is no stronger than its leadership. 'Therefore, it is of first importance that an able administrator be chosen to head the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 organization, one on whom _ the membership 'can rely to conduct affairs so that the organization will accomplish the purposes set for it. A recognition on the part of the administrator of her trusteeship, her moral responsibility to manage the business of the organization properly, is fundamental to good leadership. The leader is given certain authority. The acceptance of * authority involves its concomitant responsibility, and, it follows, that administrative activity also includes accountability, or the necessity of being ready to answer for entrusted powers.