This remarkable woman was directly responsible for the initial establishment or the enlargement of thirty-four hospitals for the insane in the United States and Europe between the years 1840 and 1860. This phenomenal extension of hospital facilities began at Worcester, Massachusetts, and extended to Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Canada, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Missouri, Louisiana, Alabama, the Carolinas, Maryland, Nova Scotia, Scotland, the Island of Jersey and finally to Italy. Moreover, her influence in raising the standards of care and treatment in mental hospitals everywhere was equally marked. And this, too, at a time when most laymen still believed that insane persons were possessed of devils and that insanity was the result of sexual sin.
II
THE fascinating account of how this intrepid, New England schoolmistress began her work dates back to 1841 when, at thirty-nine years of age, she volunteered to teach a Sunday-school class in the East Cambridge house of correction. After the school was over Miss Dix went through the jail and found, to her amazement, several insane persons herded together among the prisoners, in unheated rooms, "noisome with filth." Believing that conditions throughout Massachusetts were the same as those in East Cambridge, she set out, note-book in hand, to confirm her suspicions and to record her findings. After visiting every jail and almshouse in the state, she organized her report—a mass of appalling data describing the misery of the insane—into a memorial and addressed it to the legislature in 1843. This classic document, dated from the home of Dr. William Ellery Channing, a friend and supporter of Miss Dix, describes the conditions at Fitchburg, Springfield, Ipswich, Concord and a score of other places in the state where the insane were confined in "cages, closets, cellars, stalls, pens! Chained, naked, beaten with rods and lashed into obedience."
Of the almshouse in Wayland, for instance, Miss Dix said:
"... caged in a wood-shed, and also fully exposed upon the public road, was seen a man ... debased by exposure and irritation. Want of accommodations for the imperative calls of nature had converted the cage into a place of utter offense. 'My husband cleans him out once a week or so,' said the mistress ..."
At Westford she reported—
"... a young woman, whose person was partially covered with portions of a blanket, sat upon the floor. ... about the waist was a chain, the extremity of which was fastened to the wall of the house."
In the almshouse at Worcester she found—
"... a young woman, a lunatic pauper of decent life and respectable family. I have seen her: as she usually appeared, listless and silent, almost or quite sunk into a state of dementia. ... A few weeks since, while revisiting that almshouse, judge my horror and amazement to see her negligently bearing in her arms a young infant, of which I was told she was the unconscious parent."
The practical nature of Miss Dix's proposals, together with the force of her language, are well illustrated in the following excerpt from her Memorial: