A Night for Births By Helen Kimball Orgill a December blizzard. Great flurries of snowflakes hurled themselves straight from the frozen north, piling higher and higher in snowdrifts, scattered here and there across the prairies. Piney Ridge Ranch stood upon the crest of a hill overlooking a rich valley where hundreds of fat cattle grazed. A former eccentric owner had planted scores of pine trees round about the farm buildings. Hence the name, "Piney Ridge." The buildings consisted of a few rambling barns and stables, bunk house with dining room and cook's quarters attached, and the foreman's cottage. Apart from these stood the modern dwelling of the young owner, Bradley King. He had come with his bride intending merely to spend a day there enroute from their honeymoon on the coast to their home in Winnepeg. But he found conditions at the ranch demanded his presence. Two of the riders had "quit" at Christmas time and it was found im\ LBERTA was in the grip of possible to get others. The cattle had to 'be "worked over," in other words, the weak must be separated from the strong to receive extra feed and protection from the growing fury of the storm. Bradley King had cast off his tailored clothes and donned the buckskin lined apparel of the prairie and gone at the work with a will, for it was a matter of life and death with his stock. In this tussle, the young bride was left largely to herself. The last afternoon of the year was slowly waning. Becoming weary of reading and listening to Victrola music, she who had but recently been Stella Demorest, society's beautiful favorite, stood at the window of her richly furnished home. She was irritated and deeply disappointed. Irritated that he who had so recently been her devoted lover could so soon show signs of being neglectful; disappointed for looking at her wrist watch she visualized the doings at home. 'The luncheon was over. They were about leaving for the box party at the opera (it was to have been A NIGHT FOR BIRTHS 37 in her honor) Then would follow the dinner dance. Seng, the Jap man of all work, came in. "Wait for Mr. Bradley or eat now?" "O, I might as well have dinner now. No telling when he'll be here." So with no appetite whatever she sat down to a well prepared meal, which she scarcely tasted. Her self-centered, pleasure seeking nature resented anything that tended to thwart her desires. There had come the thought of calling on the foreman's wife, but it was quickly dismissed for she felt in no mood to meet one so crude as this woman undoubtedly would be, although Bradley had always praised both her and her husband. Stella was just finishing the repast when a rap came at the dining room door. Seng opened it letting in the driving snow as he did so. A boy of perhaps ten appeared all muffled till his features could scarcely be seen. But immediately he doffed his cap and Stella was struck with the wistful expression in his large brown eyes. "What is it, sonny?" she asked not unkindly. "Mrs. King,' he began, "my mother is sick and would like to have you come over." "You're one of the little Redmond boys I suppose." "Yes ma'am." "Go and tell your mother I'll be over." "If you want me to, I'll wait and show you the best way around the drifts. I've brought a lantern." "In just a moment." She went to her room, soon appearing clad in costly furs. "It's a terrible night. How the men stand it." I wonder "O, they get used to it," cheerfully volunteered the boy. After a little skirmishing among great piles of snow they came to the little white cottage occupied by the Redmonds. The door opened into the living room, dimly lighted by the reflection from the adjoining bedroom into which Stella was ushered. At one appraising glance she detected that the place was neat and cheery, possessing that "homey" atmosphere which her own rooms lacked. Seated beside a blazing grate fire sat a pleasant little woman possessing a certain quaint refinement in her very appearance. "You may go to bed now, Johnnie dear. Sit down, Mrs. King," motioning to a comfortable rocker. Not waiting for any preliminaries she began: "I didn't want to bother you, but I had to. I'm expecting a new arrival tonight." "A what " Stella hoped she had misconstrued the woman's meaning and tried to hide her growing consternation. "I was to have gone to town, but the children were so long getting over the measles. I have three boys. I just couldn't leave them, but even then I thought I'd have plenty of time. Jim went for the doctor several hours ago, but with the increasing intensity of the storm and the way I have felt the last half hour [I'm quite certain they won't make it." Stella doubted if any one could travel in such a night but wisely veiled her thoughts. "Of course, I understand, Mrs. Redmond. I'm the only woman here so you have sent for me." "Yes," "I know no more than a child  about caring for you. Can tell me something. "Yes, and I can help you, too," she answered almost cheerfully. Stella was amazed at the courage and grit manifested. "T have everything in readiness. My own belongings are in the middle drawer of the dresser. The baby's immediate needs are in the drawer beneath. Over in the clothes closet—"' Here a paroxysm of pain silenced her, but she finished the instructions later. So, these two, though so different in nature and worldly station, went down into the valley together. Stella could not sense the pain of physical travail, but during these hours, the travail of her own soul was such that she felt eligible to tread the pathway through the shadows with this brave, plucky little woman. During this time she learned the secret of human relationships —a sympathetic understanding of another's ills. She knew without being told that the mother was repaid in full when a bouncing baby girl was placed beside her. "O, Mrs. King, it's too good to be true. How we have wanted a girl. It's our first, you know." "Bradley had come a time or two but she calmly directed him to go home for awhile. There was a malicious twinkle in her eyes as she murmured, "It's your turn to wait now, dearie." A little past midnight a Perhaps you " loud stamping of feet was heard on the veranda and Jim Redmond, the doctor, and a nurse entered. It was evident at one glance that Jim had "lived a lifetime" in the hours since leaving home. Fearfully he studied Stella's countenance as she stood before them. Her reassuring smile caused a deep sigh to escape as he breathed, "Thank God." Half an hour later Bradley came again and together they set out homeward. "Well, well, quite a night for births," he began. "Right along with the new year comes a fine little girl." "There's one birth more, you've omitted." He gazed questioningly at her. "The birth of my better self." "That is hardly true, Stella dear. Your better self always existed. It just took this experience to bring it out. I knew it was there when married you." "Well, have it your own way, but it was so deeply hidden that I didn't know it existed." "And do you know J have gained an ambition also?" "What is it, sweetheart? J know you'll win whatever you set out for." "Well, I'd give all earthly possessions to know and feel the supreme joy that gleamed from that noble woman's eyes as I brought her sweet little white clad daughter. "Oh you darling," Bradley cried joyfully. Louise By Anne D. Palmer HERE was unrest in the big brown house that night as well as in the shabby apartment where Louise shared the room with Aunt Mandy. Mrs. 'Arlington had told her husband of the strange woman who had come and claimed their Jewell as her own; and they talked about the possibility of losing her, long after they had retired for the night.