1
EDITORIAL
Farewell and Welcome
FAREWELL to the old! Welcome to the new! 1931 has been a year that has tried men's souls: poverty has stalked where plenty dwelt before; distress of mind has agitated people and they have not known which way to turn. Financially speaking, everything that could be shaken has been shaken. Men's hearts have failed them for fear of what the future may bring. We hope that the bottom of the depression has been reached and that we are beginning the up-grade climb.
Taking stock is always illuminating, as the loss or gain is shown. Those who considered the present and possible future effects of this period have drawn some deductions that are worth careful consideration. Some have suffered keenly because they would not let their need be known. Others have known plenty such as they have never known before, demanding this and that because they have known of the largesse of the people. Some have lost their morale and have slipped into untidy, careless ways, appearing dirty and unkempt. Many, it is feared, have become pauperized and will, after normal conditions have returned, desire to receive charity, having lost the zest for work. Many have learned a valuable lesson, realizing that it is incumbent upon all to save in time of plenty for the inevitable day of need. People generally have been roused to the need of action. They have realized, perhaps as never before, that they are their brother's keeper.
Money, clothing, food, have been given lavishly. Many well-intentioned individuals have really hindered constructive work by insisting on doing things in an outgrown way. Indeed, social workers say the question now is to keep many people from doing the wrong thing, although the kindness of heart shown in the donations made cannot be questioned. Agencies have worked as never before to relieve distress and keep up the morale of the unemployed.
It is an achievement to get people thinking deeply. Many are thinking constructively, and there will be some helpful changes come out of this experience. Many methods of procedure have been weighed in the balance and found wanting. Remedies have been suggested and doubtless changes will come along many lines as a result of the experiences of the last two years. People have learned to make more sound evaluations of what is worthwhile.
When Alfred Russell Wallace, on his ninety-second birthday, was asked, "What is wrong with the world?" he replied, "This is the fundamental weakness: our knowledge, our science has outstripped our moral development. We have become possessed of greater forces than we are morally fit to use. We have not sufficient self-control or good-will to use these gigantic physical energies for the well being of mankind and are daily turning them into weapons of self-destruction."
Present conditions are giving pause to weigh our moral development and our scientific achievement. Perhaps during these trying times our moral development will be accelerated and we will learn how to use to better advantage the forces at command. It is likely that many are learning self-control and good-will and will be better able to use the "gigantic physical energies" available "for the well being of mankind."
We deeply appreciate the remarkable work our organization has done to meet this emergency. Many have devoted one or more days a week to sewing. Thousands of quilts and articles of clothing have been made and distributed. Thousands of quarts of fruit have been bottled, ready for the winter's needs. Everything that our women could do they have willingly done to relieve suffering and procure work and to minister to the needy. They have known the joy that comes from work well done.