Before the advent of the trained social worker, the responsibility of giving help to maladjusted members of society fell to the lot of well intentioned people who as a rule had a genuine desire in their hearts to serve their fellow-men and who relied on their intuition and common sense to guide them in their work. A great advance is being made and this type of worker is gradually being replaced by the individual who is schooled to meet the difficult problems that beset society. The scientific methods used today demand inquiry concerning the causative factors lying back of the problems that are being attacked and in so far as these factors can be elicited there are opened up many possibilities for effective treatment and prevention. By adherence to scientific methods and by preservation of a broad humanitarian outlook that is sensitive and responsive to human needs the future will be bright, and if social work performs its task effectively the way is opened up for many developments that will enrich the life of our people.
Social work, however, is faced with many problems and difficulties and it will require courage and persistence to insure progress. It has not been the thought—in fact it is quite impossible—in this short but intensive course to train professional social welfare workers but enough information and practical work has been presented to give the student a view of the field in which she is to function as a social service aid. The course has been planned, however, with certain aims in view: First, to educate to an understanding of social work and the desire to learn more and more about it. Second, to give instructions in methods and the principles underlying each method. Third, to foster an attitude of confidence and faith in human beings and to develop the best that is in them so they may attain some degree of harmonious living. Fourth, to stimulate a keen desire to do good constructive work.
Cooperation is one of the fundamentals of welfare work and to obtain it fully there must be complete understanding of the work itself, understanding of the many varied needs of individuals, of communities, of problems, of other agencies, and one another. We may have the knowledge of these things but it, in and of itself, is not sufficient and cannot be applied alone. In the past when our communities were smaller and life less complex there was only one avenue of relief, the church, but today even in the smallest towns a greater number of resources have sprung up to aid the church in helping human beings to form such a philosophy of life as to face facts clearly and deal successfully with life's daily problems, so that every individual may function physically, mentally, intelligently, economically, and spiritually. In order to do this communities must organize their resources so that relief and service do not overlap. Relief given without investigation, without regard for client whether individuals or families, with no effort to learn causes that made the appeal necessary, without proper records, etc., not only has a pauperizing effect, in that the applicant's sense of independence and self-confidence are not maintained, but that the cause is not removed and the relief expense goes on just the same. Food, clothing, and shelter do not form the whole foundation on which family life is built. Each member of that family is a unit by itself ~and must have an outlet for physical mental and spiritual urges, he must have an opportunity for work, education and recreation. Because of these divided interests cooperation with all available resources is essential to happy family life. At no time has the magnitude of this task been so great as it is at the present. The situation calls for heroic efforts on the part of all to keep up the morale of family life and the members optimistic and happy. Perhaps one outstanding thing that the institutes may accomplish is the interpretation, by the members of the class, of the family and community welfare work that the General Board in cooperation with the Presiding Bishopric are tying to the wards and stakes throughout the church to the various stakes and communities from which they came,: To interpret means to translate into familiar words or terms, to represent artistically. And so to interpret there must be a direct and vital relationship with the community. Mary Richmond has said, "If we fail to interpret social work we shall be sawing off the very limb on which we sit." This process of interpretation then, must be a continuous and active day by day, year in and year out, with an exchange of experiences and ideas. Public opinion, misunderstanding and prejudice have been formed on past ideas that family social work is relief giving only and not educational and preventive work. Karl de Schweinitz in his book "The Art of Helping People out of Trouble," gives us a way to interpret social service work artistically in the example of Donato. It may be interesting to know that of the class of twenty-six, ten represent Utah, six Idaho, three Wyoming, one Nevada, one California, two Arizona and three the province of Alberta, Canada. From this interesting and interested group came many ideas, experiences, and questions of importance pertaining to general and local problems. Special lectures gave us some very enlightening data as to some of the causes of social evils and information as to how many of them might be entirely eliminated.  The visits to the various public institutions showed the need of greater facilities and more educational and preventive work. The suffering, the loneliness, the desire for something more than that expressed within four walls brought forth the comment that a worth while life to be fully lived and appreciated must be touched on all sides with all kinds of human make up, conditions, circumstances and environments. The processes, by which these adjustments to changing conditions should be made so that the client will feel a sense of security, a freedom from worry and distress, and, eventually, get back to normal life, were emphasized by each and every instructor of the course. If each student can in some measure present the work to the stake or community in which she is asked to serve, in the same logical, concise, interesting and inspirational way that it was presented to her, then the institute has been worth while.