Lesson Department (First Week in March)
Theology and Testimony
Select Readings: Alma, chapters 5-9 inclusive. Make notes of doctrines taught.
First Aids To Goodness
Having seen what the Nephite Record has to say about the immortality of the soul?a new aspect?we have now to ask what are its teachings concerning the duties and obligations of man here and now. This longer view of the life of man, of which we spoke in the last lesson, should exert a wholesome effect on human conduct in those who accept it. A clear view of the end from the beginning, in any sphere of life, helps in the proper adjustment of the details. The more clearly, for instance, a young man or a young woman sees ahead, the better he or she is able to plan for the future. There is no doubt about that. It is the same with life as a whole. The longer view is always helpful.
One of the fundamental principles operative in the life of the Nephites, individual and social, is that man is free to choose his course in life; and their leaders saw to it that there was no interference with this freedom. All through the Book of Mormon runs this thought like a golden thread. Here are some of the most striking passages on this freedom of choice:
"Men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedient unto man. They are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself.
"And now I would that ye should look to the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit; and not choose eternal death, according to the will of the flesh and the evil which is therein, which giveth the spirit of the devil power to captivate, to bring you down to hell, that he may reign over you in his own kingdom." (Lehi in II Nephi, 2:27-29.)
"God granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; he allotteth unto men according to their wills, whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. Good and evil have come before all men; he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires, whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience." (Alma 29:4-5.)
"Whosoever will come may come and partake of the waters of life freely; and whosoever will not come the same is not compelled to come; but in the last day it shall be restored unto him according to his deeds." (Alma 42:27.)
"And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself; for ye are free; ye are permitted to act for yourselves; God hath given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free. He hath given unto you that ye might know good from evil, and he hath given unto you that ye might choose life or death. Ye can do good and be restored unto that which is good, or have that which is good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have that which is evil restored unto you." (Samuel, in Helaman, 14:30, 31.)
Lehi was the first of the Nephite prophets; Alma's life fell in the first century before Christ; Samuel, the Lamanite prophet, lived a few years before the Crucifixion. These men, and others living in between them, all through the thousand years of Nephite history taught the principle of human free agency, with a clearness and force which we do not find among any other religious people. It was the ruling idea in the life of that nation.
But how did the principle work itself out among the Nephites? For very often, in the history of the world, nations have had a higher ideal of individual freedom than their practice of it would indicate. Perhaps the best single instance of the principle of free agency in the Nephite nation is to be found in the political action of King Mosiah. The account of this reformation of the government and the granting of greater political liberty to the people is in chapters twenty-eight and twenty-nine of Mosiah. Here are the remarkable facts in the case: Mosiah's sons, having been converted to the church through a miracle, decline to succeed their father in the rule of the nation, each in turn, beginning with the eldest. This is an unusual situation. The king begins to think?not about what is best for himself, but what is best for his people. If some one else should become king and if afterwards one of the sons should change his mind on the point of the kingship, there would most probably be civil war, in which much blood would be shed. For Mosiah has no illusions about human nature and youthful ambition. So he decides upon an extraordinary thing. He will change the form of the government. He will create a sort of republic. Accordingly, he sets a time for an election by the people. A chief judge and minor judges are to be chosen by them. Heretofore, it would seem, the people had had no part in the government. This was an epochal event in the history of the Nephites. The manner in which this change was received by the nation is told us in this significant passage: "Therefore they relinquished their desires for a king, and became exceedingly anxious that every man should have an equal chance throughout all the land; yea, every man expressed a willingness to answer for his own sins. They were exceedingly rejoiced because of the liberty which had been granted unto them."
From this time on it was "the voice of the people" that prevailed among the Nephites. Sometimes this voice was loud for iniquity and political sin, but often it was as loud for righteousness, individual and national. But of this responsibility Mosiah had forewarned the nation at the time of the alteration in the government. His views on this point have already been quoted as one of the literary gems in the Book of Mormon.
In the time of Alma the Younger, as will be remembered, Amlici endeavored to restore the kingdom, with himself as king. The matter was submitted to the people at an election, and their "voice" was against him. This was the first test of the wisdom of Mosiah in giving the people the right of suffrage. (Alma 2:2-7)
During the life-time of Moroni, the military chieftain, it was put to an even severer test, when Amalackiah sought to lead away the people. In this case, as we are told, the Nephite Patrick Henry roused enough men to rout the ambitious dissenter, who escaped to the Lamanites. (Alma, chapter 46)
The Nephite nation having been granted a full measure of personal liberty, the leaders of that people did not consider that the average man among them was left to himself in the matter of choice, whether in matters of governmental concerns or in religion. For there was the Holy Spirit, to which every man was entitled as a guide to his conscience. As early as the time of the First Nephi we find the idea announced. "Repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in the name of my Beloved Son. And also the voice of the Son, saying: He that is baptized in my name, to him will the Father give the Holy Ghost, like unto me. Wherefore, follow me, and do the things ye have seen me do." (II Nephi 31:11, 12)
What is this Spirit supposed to do? In the first place, it sanctifies. Says Alma the Younger: "Now they, after being sanctified by the Holy Ghost. Having their garments made white, being pure and spotless before God, could not look upon sin save it were with abhorrence."
In the second place, it gives power of utterance. In the case of the brothers Lehi and Nephi (Helaman, 5:44, 45), the time they were in prison, the Holy Ghost enabled them to speak divine words: "They were encircled about; they were as if in the midst of flaming fire, yet it did harm them not, neither did it take hold upon the walls of the prison; and they were filled with joy which is unspeakable and full of glory. And, behold, the Holy Spirit of God did come down from heaven, and did enter into their hearts, and they were filled as if with fire, and they could speak forth marvelous words."
In the third place, the Holy Ghost testifies of God and the Christ. Jesus says (III Nephi 28:11): "And the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father and me; and the Father giveth the Holy Ghost unto the children of men, because of me."
Not only does it bear witness of God and of Christ, however, but it becomes a means of testing truth. Moroni, the last of the Nephites, makes this assertion in these words: "And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." (Moroni, 10:6)
In the fourth place, the Holy Ghost manifests itself through certain gifts. Says Moroni (10:8-18): "Deny not the gifts of God, for they are many; and they come from the same God. And there are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the Spirit of God unto men, to profit them.
"To one is given by the Spirit of God, that he may teach the word of wisdom; to another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; to another, exceeding great faith; to another, the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; to another, that he may work mighty miracles; to another, that he may prophesy concerning all things; to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits; to another, all kinds of tongues; to another, the interpretation of languages and of divers kinds of tongues.
"All these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ; and they come unto every man severally, according as he will. And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that every good gift cometh from Christ."
Concerning this Spirit of Christ it may be further said that often people are influenced by it without any knowledge of the fact by them. This is clear from what Jesus himself says: He told the Nephites (III Nephi, 20:27): "In thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed?unto the pouring out of the Holy Ghost through me upon the Gentiles, which blessing upon the Gentiles shall make them mighty above all, unto the scattering of my people, O house of Israel."
This is the way in which the Book of Mormon represents the promise as having been made to Abraham. With this spiritual power, then, the Nephites could have (1) purification of spirit, (2) a means of utterance not otherwise obtainable, (3) a knowledge of God and of Christ to be got in no other way, and (4) some very definite gifts of the spirit. What more could any one ask than to be free to make his own choice, to begin with, and then to be guided in the exercise of his freedom, if he so desired, by a divine power, so that he would have no mental or moral confusion, but ample light to see his way? Surely the two ways were magnificently open to the Nephites, and they could well be held accountable for their choice.
A word must be added here concerning the idea of obedience to God, of which the Book of Mormon is full. This notion is repugnant to the "modern mind." It is much scorned by the man who is accustomed to going his own way and gait, politically, morally, and religiously?the man, that is, who makes a boast of traveling by his own light. Very likely, though, such a person is thinking of the idea in terms of the priest-ridden period of the Middle Ages, when the clergy told the people what to do in religion and saw to it that they did it. But such was not the thought of the Nephite leaders at any time. The high conception the Nephite leaders had of free agency implies that the free agent has a knowledge of the two ways of life. As a matter of fact, these leaders saw to it that the people were taught the principles of true spiritual growth. Lehi, Nephi, Benjamin, Mosiah, the two Almas, Helaman, the later Lehi and Nephi, Mormon, and Moroni?all these prophets and others spent their lives endeavoring to spread a knowledge of the gospel among their people. That was done so that the people might have light to choose the right from the wrong. And then there was the guidance of the Holy Ghost, to which all members of the Church, both before and after Christ, were entitled. How is it possible that any obedience which the Nephites might give to the commandments of God through the priests could be of the sort which is called "blind"?
According to the Nephite philosophy of life, obedience of some sort there must be of necessity?obedience to the principle of good or obedience to the principle of evil. There was no getting around that. There is the power of God, on the one hand, and there is the power of the devil, on the other hand. And the only question of a free agent is, "To which of these powers shall I give my allegiance?" The prophets believed that, if one knew the two powers and if one opened his mind and his heart to the guiding influence of the divine Spirit, he would obey God rather than Satan; and it would not be "blind" obedience, either, but just as intelligent as any decision which can be made in matters that are wholly material.
Here, then, is a sort of life-philosophy: (1) A will that is free to choose its way in life, as free at least as is consistent with things as they are; (2) a knowledge of the two ways in life that one may take, the one leading to God and immortality and the other leading to ultimate destruction; and (3) an unlimited fund of power waiting ready to be tapped by any one that earnestly seeks to see his way clearly and to secure strength to follow it to the end.
Questions
1. State the doctrine of the Book of Mormon concerning free agency. What ideas may be added to this doctrine from other sources? Discriminate carefully between the two. To what extent is the will really free, when we consider heredity and environment? Do we act in daily life on the assumption that we are free or that we are not free to choose? Explain.
2. How may we know which of the two ways of life we ought to choose? In what ways does the Holy Ghost manifest itself? Read section 9, of the Doctrine and Covenants, with particular reference to verses 8 and 9, with a view to seeing whether there is not here a key to the solution of every problem by which we may be confronted.
3. What is meant by "blind" obedience? In what way may blind obedience be changed into intelligent obedience? Should we obey God whether or not we understand? Why? Is there an analogy between our relationship to God, so far as this point is concerned, and the relationship of our children to us? Explain.
Teachers' Topic
Watchword: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house."?Luke 10:5
Text: "Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.
"Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven:
"Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal, it shall be measured to you again."?Luke 6:36-38.
Jesus recognized the universality of sin. He understood the human tendency of man to criticize and find fault with others, at the same time disregarding his own shortcomings. In the chapter from which our text is taken, He goes on to say, "And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye."
Jesus seldom spoke with severity; but with kindly advice, and above all by a glorious example, He taught His lesson of charity and understanding. In this chapter He particularly urges the necessity of overcoming one's own defects before trying to correct the faults of others. He calls attention to the fact that in judging we are apt to misjudge. He said, "For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a devil. The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!"?Luke 7:33-34.
"Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment."?John 7:24.
Throughout all the Gospels this is one of the outstanding themes. It is one of the foundation stones of Christianity. The Savior spoke of it repeatedly. He constantly told of the love and mercy of the Father. He exemplified it in His own life. One cannot imagine the Redeemer of the world spending His precious time in idle chatter about the trivial faults of others. His criticisms were always constructive, given in the spirit of helpfulness and love.
That strange alchemy of the soul which we call character building is constantly at work, transmuting all the baser qualities into that wondrous power of love, or developing the opposing force which destroys the soul that gave it birth. Jesus said, "For every tree is known by his own fruit: for of thorns men do not gather figs," nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes."'?Luke 6:44. Love will not grow from jealousy and hate. Thorns cannot bring forth figs, nor. A bramble bush grapes. A bitter, envious, faultfinding tongue is the result of? or will inevitably result in?a bitter, thorny, bramble bush soul. Love alone can change it, love of justice, love of humanity, love of Jesus. Jesus was aware of the frailties of His people. He also recognized their ability to overcome all things. Otherwise He would not have given the admonition which 'is a challenge to the soul of everyone who believes in Him, "Be ye merciful, as your Father also is merciful." Literature (Third Week in March) THE SHORT STORY IN AMERICA Note to Teachers: The Short Story in America will be treated in four lessons, 1. Washington Irving to and including Bret Harte; 2. Writers of the later nineteenth and of the twentieth century; 3.The Short Story today; 4. Short story writers of the Church. In the early part of her history America was too concerned with her own troubles; too much engrossed in founding homes in new lands; and too interested in robust living to develop intellectually. The first fiction writers might have been living in England, their style, their thoughts, and even their subject matter was so similar. America as a source of material for writers was still to be discovered. It was James Fennimore Cooper who made the discovery. His "'Last of the Mohicans", '"The Spy", and other Natty Bumpo stories are still read today and European boys and girls who come to America in our own times are disappointed because they do not see the Cooper Indians' stalking through forests. Cooper, however, gave most of his talent to the novel.: Contemporary with Cooper was  Washington Irving, born in New York City in 1783, the year of the British occupation. Irving belonged to a well-to-do family and he did not have a strong urge to work. Still he had the urge to write. His literary career began with a burlesque history of New York, supposedly written by one Diedrich Knickerbocker. Today most Americans know of the book, but all of us have read "Rip Van Winkle" and "Ichabod Crane". (This later story, incidentally, made the school master of America such a sorry figure of a man that the profession still suffers in 1932 from Irving's ridicule. Irving was blessed with a touch of fantasy, a pleasing humor, with sensitiveness and graciousness, and these qualities are as vivid in his writings now as they were in the eighteen hundreds. Men, before him, wrote stories, but they are all forgotten and Irving lives His genius won immediate recognition at home; Europe soon claimed him. When he visited England he wrote of English scenery and subjects with the same deft style and humor. He was equally at home in Spain. Indeed, his stories of the Alhambra won him the Spanish consulship. In spite of his intense nationality, he was cosmopolitan in point of view and in experiences. With the exception of these two men, American writers were not recognized abroad. There were several very good reasons for this. English books and English stories poured into America because of the lax copyright laws, and even the few people seriously interested in writing were not given a fair chance. But the American spirit noted always for its ingenuity and its vitality, could not be held down for long. Writers soon began expressing themselves in a new form, as characteristic of the country then as it is today. They wrote short stories. Nathaniel Hawthorne, born in 1804 and Edgar Allen Poe in 1809, gave a new and original kind of story to America and in time to the world. Other American writers were interested primarily in what happened to people on the outside. These two men were concerned in the mental and spiritual adventures of men. Hawthorne's deep interest lay in the souls of men and in conflicts of character?which is about the same thing. He was a descendant of the Puritans. It was his grandfather who had been cursed at Salem during the witchcraft trials and the story had a profound effect upon young Nathaniel. From the time Hawthorne was about twelve years he deliberately sought a life of solitude so that he might write. His style is excellent, beautiful in words and in rhythm, and entirely by himself he developed a special art of short story writing. It had most of the things we demand in a story today?brevity, unity of impression, fantasy, and often a touch of humor. Sometimes he failed in the quick climax, but for the most part his stories are masterpieces of the art. What they lacked in vigor and cheer they made up in style and content. It is interesting to note that Hawthorne, still one of our greatest, did not win real fame until he was well in his middle years. He had his struggle with poverty and discouragement. But even in the worst times, he had a faithful audience of one. That audience was his wife. There is a story current today that one time Hawthorne came home determined to give up any attempts LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 at writing and to find some way of making a safe living for his family. He told his wife that he no longer had any money, even for their simple needs, and she replied by throwing open a drawer partly filled with money she had saved. After the 'Scarlet Letter" he was able to live comfortably and well. In our times his writings are as popular, perhaps, as they were in his own. It would be hard to find a child who does not know the story of "The Great Stone Face." Poe, said by many, to be America's greatest man of genius, was born in Boston and left an orphan in his infancy. As yet there is no more romantic figure in American literature than this man. Every few years some author produces an essay or a book which he believes will make clear the real Poe. But if this has ever been done, it is lost in the legends of Poe's memory. The later writers regard him more kindly and are more apt to take the attitude that Poe, handicapped by his sensitiveness, his introspection, and his lofty ideas of art, did better than could be expected. In Poe, who was also a great poet and critic, the short story reached perfection in form. His -rules: for this form of art, which he deduced from his own writings and those of Hawthorne, are still the accepted ones; they are the precepts that have largely shaped the modern short story. The most famous of Poe's tales are those of horror and of mystery. In the later he is unique. Few men of any nation have an intellect so highly developed in pure reason. There was one thing he did not attempt. He could not portray character. His writings could have their settings in almost any country and his characters exist only for the purpose of the plot. All his life Poe struggled with poverty. He wrote his first story, "Ms. Found in a Bottle" for a contest sponsored by a Baltimore paper, and the hundred dollars he received was the largest sum he was every paid for a piece of writing. Today writers with only a slight trace of his genius receive ten times that amount. It was in journalism that Poe eked out a meager living. He was proud to a degree hard for most of us to understand, and he was confident that his works would receive immortal fame So sure was he of that fame that he made no compromises. After Hawthorne and Poe the short story in America languished for many years. People wrote, to be sure, and many women wrote stories full of morals for the growing women readers. Whole books could be written about these writers who wrote for the new women's magazines and did so much to shape feminine tastes and I thought in America during the nineteenth century, but there is no time, for them here. We can only 'note that there were no men of sufficient talent to really profit by the work of the masters. A few writers came close to it, but it was not until the time of Bret Harte that the short story came into its own. Some one may object to this and want to include Mark Twain. Twain is our most original writer, but he was little concerned with short stories and made no definite contribution. Bret Harte was an eastern boy, who by some trick of fate, came to the west coast and in time exploited the California of the gold days for the benefit of eastern readers. He might have been a great  genius, but his later writings fell short of his first ones. He has, however, a definite and high place in American letters. He is the father of the short story in America of more modern times. To the technique of Poe and Hawthorne he added local color, a deft handling of characters, and a more characteristic American humor. One of his stories has been selected for this month's lesson. Bret Harte The American frontier had one of its last great chroniclers in Bret' Harte. His fame is closely connected with early California. There are some who say that his pictures of those days are not true ones, but they are the pictures accepted by the world, and it is doubtful if they will ever be supplanted. Harte wrote at a time when the frontier was in the process of transformation, when the memory of the forty-niners was still vivid in America. He spoke with authority, and later writers must rely on story and documents. Strangely Harte could not write of anything save California life. When he tried other subjects, his pen lost its magic. At one time he was inspired by two visions, one to record the gold days of California, and the second to bring back to life the California of the Spanish, of the Missions, the Fathers, the ranchos, and the leisurely ways of living. The first he accomplished in part, the second he only half started. Bret Harte was not a true Californian. He was born August 25, 1839 in Albany, New York, the son of a professor of Greek. As a child he was delicate, and with his mother's aid, he successfully evaded an education. He was, however, a great reader, and Dickens, from whom he learned much of sentimental writing and characterization, was his favorite. When he was eleven, he wrote a poem and had it published. And his strange parents instead of praising it, pointed out all its bad features, telling him he could never be a poet. He was completely discouraged for years, but the instinct kept cropping out and he wrote bad verse off and on through his life. In 1856, when he was seventeen, he came to California, followed soon by his widowed mother. At that time he had no definite purpose except that he wanted to make a living and California was a place of romance and promise. There is no record that he actually tried mining, but he was a messenger for the Adams Express, a prescription clerk and a printer, in addition to various other trades. He knew the frontier life intimately, the gamblers, the miners, the Chinese, the waterfront, and the early life of the villages. While he was working in the composing room of the Golden Era he wrote his first story, "Miss". It lead to his securing a place in the office of the General Surveyor at San Francisco and to his marriage with Miss Anna Griswold. Later he was made secretary to the Superintendent of the Mint, a position that left him with much time for writing. Joaquin Miller, who was a great admirer of Harte, wrote of him at this time: "I found a spare, slim young man in a chip hat and a summer dress of the neatest and nattiest cut, who took me cordially into his confidence at once. I liked his low voice, his quiet, earnest, and~ unaffected manner from the first. He had neat editorial rooms where he made me welcome, although he was then engaged as Secretary of the Mint * * * I think he was the cleanest man I ever LESSON DEPARTMENT 59 saw. He was always as clean, modest, and graceful of speech as a girl." "The Overland Monthly" was started in 1868 and Harte was chosen editor. His intention was to write a story of California life for the first issue. Something kept him from getting it ready and it came out in the second number.. When it went into the type room the typesetter refused to let it advance further than the proof sheets. Among other reasons he declared it as not fit copy for his proof reader to see. She was a young and innocent girl and the man felt he must protect her, The story was "The Luck of Roaring Camp', and Harte, being editor, had the last word. He declared that it was not indecent and that it would 'be printed. The world has since verified his decision. But California thought otherwise. Citizens of the young state were largely Puritan descendants, and they took their civilizing process very seriously. Not only did they consider the subject unfit, but they said Harte was not true in his picture. "The Luck" was the story of the reformation of a camp by the birth of a baby, and right in San Francisco that very year one thousand children had marched in a parade, each one carrying a flower. The east was not so troubled. They took "The Luck" and its author to their hearts and demanded more. The stories that followed were read by everyone, men, women and children. They cried over his sentimental parts, laughed at his humor, thrilled with his stories of the adventuresome California days, and talked about his characters, In time the east that had sent him out unknown, demanded his return, and he was only too happy to obey the command. His way back was one long ovation. But once away from hills of California and the blue Pacific, his magic touch left him. He wrote much because his way of living demanded that he have large sums of money. When his writings were receiving little attention he turned to lecturing of the gold days. Finally he was given a government post in a little German town. This he did not care for and friends used influence to get him transferred to Scotland. When he left America, much of his zest for life was gone and he developed an attitude that the world owed him a living. Europe revived him for awhile with its welcoming praise and his translations heaped in shop windows. He wrote himself dry of California tales and then wrote on. Once he attempted to attain his second vision, that of writing of the Spanish days in California. There is considerable mystery attached to his later years. He did not return to America and he seemed to be estranged from his wife and family. But when he died in Surrey May 5, 1902, they were with him. Gilbert Chesterton, the English critic, once wrote that Harte of all the men of letters had discovered the intense sensibility of the primitive man, that this unlettered person, so much misunderstood and belittled by writers, was highly sentimental and religious, and that while it is rare to find a thoroughly good man, Harte discovered that it is rare, almost to the point of monstrosity, to find a man who does not either desire to be one or imagine that he is one already. "The Outcasts of Poker Flat" "The Outcasts of Poker Flat" needs little explaining or studying; it has only to be read to be enjoyed  and understood. It is one of Harte's best stories both from the points of view of local color and interpretation of human emotions. The plot is simple: One of California's mining towns in the days of the Vigilance Committees decides to reform itself. The immediate urge is the loss of much money through gambling and two horses through thievery. Along with the gambler and the thief the citizens expell two other undesirable characters, women who are typical of mining towns. The company, since they can not leave separately, travel together. Poker Flat, from where they are outcasts, is in the foothills, and they decide to go higher up in the Sierras to a town as yet untouched by law, Sandy Bar. On the way they stop to drink, though the gambler, who, true to his type, does not drink, re| minds them that they have a good distance to go and that winter can ibe expected any day. While they are waiting, two young people join them, a boy and a girl coming from Sandy Bar to Poker Flat to be married. During the night the old thief steals away with the horses and the wind brings a heavy snow, which does not cease. As a last resort the gambler has the boy brave death in an effort to bring help. After the boy goes, the gambler, too much of a coward to see the others suffer, kills himself. There are six characters in the story, all of whom have achieved immortality. Oakhurst, the Duchess, Mother Simpson have all come to ibe symbols of their tribe, and names of Uncle Billy, Piney, and her lover are known all over the world. The story is California's own?the mining town introducing law and order, the cowardly, the brave, and the loose characters from all over America and the world, the dry foothills, and the high Sierras. It is said of Harte that he does not know how to make his characters grow, that they ar? in no way affected by the conflicts in the story. Oakhurst, who was given a chance to reach sublime heights, is the same when he dies at the foot of the pine tree as when he left Poker Flat. He is clear headed, willing to help, cool in the face of danger, but incapable of real leadership or great moral bravery. The Duchess and Mother Simpson do not change. One might argue that Mother Simpson did since she starved herself for Piney, but that instance cannot be cited for growth. Women of her kind are notoriously kind to the underdogs of life and to those in extreme need. And Uncle Billy was exactly the same kind of coward and thief. Character growth is one thing Harte did not learn from Dickens. Some _ objection might be raised to Harte's having Piney unable to pray. Piney was young, pure, and God-fearing, and probably of Puritant descent. In real life she could have prayed, but for artistic purposes it is better that she could not. In giving the story to the class the enjoyment of it is the primary thing. Questions Which do you think the more important in this story, character or plot? Which character is the most vividly drawn? (With which do you sympathize the most? Do any of the characters show growth? Is this a strong or weak point for Harte? Harte has been charged with being overly sentimental. Are there any grounds for this charge? Using this story as a basis for your answer, tell what contributions he made to the short story as a form! ' LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 of art? Why is he called the father of the short story? Account for Bret Harte's sudden and_ overwhelming popularity. (There are many reasons for this) Why did he fail as a writer after he left California? Why was Harte fitted to picture California of the early days? Why did California reject Bret Harte and the east welcome him? Name other writings of Bret Harte. Why could not this story have been written outside California? Give instances in this story to support Harte's belief that all men and women contain much good. What things, or what characteristics of American life and American spirit made it possible for the short story to be developed independently? Social Service (Fourth Week in March) PERSONALITY STUDY: SOUND AND FRUITFUL THINKING (Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," pp. 184-200) "Real thinking is rare and difficult and * * * needs every incentive in the face of innumerable, ancient, and inherent discouragements and impediments," says James Harvey Robinson in his stimulating book, Mind iin the Making. It is our privilege again to consider the important problem of sound and fruitful thinking. There is always a need for a better understanding of the various aspects of this problem. Furthermore if Professor Robinson is right in the above statement, we should do what we can to remove some of the impediments and discouragements which beset the way of those who might more frequently do real thinking. This lesson lis designed to make a few contributions to help us along these lines. R When we become aware of a problematic situation which demands a solution we may adopt either one of two very different ways of making the adjustment that seems necessary. We may employ the method of seeking a solution by means of motor or muscular activity or we may start what the psychologist calls an ideational quest for a solution. In general, the first method is what we call learning by doing or learning by experience and the other method is often designated (sometimes disparagingly) as the planning, or the antecedent theoretical work, The jfirst is the method of learning by "hard knocks" and is used almost altogether by animals which probably make little if any use of ideas. While under some circumstances this method may possess certain advantages, yet it scarcely deserves the praise it often gets from many as being the "practical" method. On the other hand we show very little understanding of the ideational or thinking method if we dont' recognize that it is frequently characterized by a 'good deal of "trial and error' procedure. The fact is that these two methods are very much alike in most respects. The example of trying to solve an ordinary mechanical puzzle by the two ways will help bring this out. When we use the motor or muscular activity method (sometimes called the "practical" method) we handle the material twisting and pulling in a more or less random fashion while we notice  by means of our senses how each thing we do turns out. If the planning or thinking method (often called the theoretical method) is tried as occasionally it is, we refrain from much outward or observable activity and proceed to analyze the problematic situation by careful observation and by inferring what would take place in case this or that thing were done. We see that in the 'one method we get the solution mainly by using movements and in the other by using ideas. But in both cases we begin with a felt difficulty or perlexing situation and then use a procedure which is "variable, persistent, and analytical'. The solution in both cases is more or less accidentally discovered. Finally the process of mastering the solution for possible future use is undertaken. In both cases this involves a sufficient number of repeated trials to establish the adequate response. We have been considering certain contrasts and similarities of the motor and rather simple ideational solutions to everyday problems because it is hoped that this will help us to better appreciate the nature and advantages of the thinking process. It is obvious no doubt that the using of ideas?the mental substitutes for movements and things that can be immediately perceived ?is closely related to the process of careful and systematic thinking sometimes designated by the term reasoning. It is not our desire to have you decide that one of the two methods we are considering is better in all cases than the other for each has its advantages and. Disadvantages. The motor method must necessarily be employed by young children before they have many ideas. Frequently the nature of problems confronting adults (choosing between two paths in a region strange to them) is such that even they lack the experiences to furnish the basis of relevant and helpful ideas. In the case of rather complicated problematic situations (playing chess or designing a practical dirigible balloon) it is quite necessary to engage in not a little overt performance as an aid to our mental analysis. Then, too, the motor method often helps a baffled thinker by indicating good clues with which to renew the ideational attack. The method of reasoning has a number of important advantages. (1) It may save us from actual danger and harm which would surely threaten many times if the motor method were depended upon instead. (2) It generally saves both time and energy. (3) In industrial and building situations it generally results in the economizing of expensive materials. (4) Solutions reached by reasoning are frequently more satisfactory because they are made in the light of wider knowledge and experience since we may even profit by the experiences of others who may be remote from us in both time and place and yet whose communicated and socially tested ideas are highly relevant in relation to many of our particular problems. (5) Again, reasoning is not limited to the solution of problems immediately before one, but can be used very widely. We can even cross bridges before we get to them, which by the way is not always a bad thing. We, of course, are willing to yield that unnecessary worrying should be avoided. But let us not call ourselves rational beings if we content ourselves too much with adjusting to each new situation as it arises without making suitable provisions to meet. A good many of the urgent needs that are sure to call LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 for solution in the future. (6) In closing this enumeration we may observe that reasoning is necessarily involved in the solution of the abstract and conceptual problems of science and philosophy. Thus we see that each method has its proper place and that for the best results it is often necessary for the one method to supplement the other. For those of us who may be inclined to over-rate and over-use the motor method for fear of being called theoretical it might be well to read carefully the following statements from Professor Bobbitt: "The planning, the antecedent performance of the task, is * * * the most important part of it. But it cannot have vitality * * * unless it is an organic portion of a total act of which the outward performance is but the culminating portion." Let us now turn our attention more particularly to another important phase of our lesson problem, that of the circumstances under which thinking may be expected to take place, or how thinking may be stimulated. Practically all who have gone into this carefully are agreed, as we have stated above, that thinking never takes place unless we are brought more or less face to face with some crisis or problematic situation. For example, Strayer and Norsworthy say that thinking is engaged in "only when the response is inadequate, when no satisfactory response is forthcoming?only when there is something problematic in the sitttation." John Dewey says, "The origin of thinking is some perplexity, confusion, or doubt." Swift has the following to say on this question, "If everything ran smoothly there would be no thinking. Like everything else, thinking requires a cause, which in this case is trouble. Doubt, perplexity, uncertainty, an obstacle in the way of what we want to do?all are different names for troubles that interfere with our activities, physical or mental. * * * The recognition of trouble * * * is * * * the incentive to thinking." Of course as we indicated in the first part of this discussion we do not necessarily think?much less think straight, when confronted with a problematic situation. In fact, we more frequently engage in less difficult procedures. On account of real thinking being as Dewey says, troublesome and painful?involving disagreeable mental suspense?we are much inclined to get along somehow with a minimum of careful, systematic thinking. This being true, the teacher or leader who wishes to encourage thinking on the part of others tries to create the kind of situations which are favorable to the initiation of this process. Sometimes he may seem even ruthless in knocking out the "props" from under certain generalizations and in verbally shutting off the possibility of the easy recovery of a satisfying equilibrium until a little thinking has been done. At the risk of being misunderstood 'by the ever near "heresy hunters" and even by some of his friends, he seems at times to actually foster a mental attitude akin to doubting. He knows that sound and fruitful thinking is worthwhile, but that it will not arise spontaneously without. The people concerned first being placed at least temporarily in a mental attitude more or less equivalent to a doubt or rather serious perplexity. _ Space permits but a very brief mention of a few other things which favor the occurrence of the thinking process. Teachers who wish to have  their students do a good deal of real thinking steadfastly refuse to do an undue amount of thinking for them no matter how strong the temptation may be. They avoid presenting material to them with the attitude of dogmatic finality. They try to cultivate a wholesome intellectual curiosity and also try to discipline the students in the habit of perseverance at more or less difficult tasks. They gradually train the students to preserve a tentative attitude toward knowledge and insist that the statements of generalizations be made cautiously and in the light of actual evidences ?not as the result of mere wishes. We can no doubt see how in due time, with such training, thinking will become less troublesome and painful and as the student learns how to carry on the process systematically avoiding the numerous pitfalls he may voluntarily choose to think when he is not actually forced into it by some natural or artificially made severe crisis. In the above discussion we have tried not to duplicate the Magazine lesson on "straight thinking" published last February. It will be well to again read this former lesson as a valuable supplement to the present one. Especially if we need to improve our notions of what constitutes sound and fruitful thinking as contrasted with mere rationalization, or if we cannot readily recognize a dozen or more common pitfalls of thinking we should read not less than the middle four pages of this former lesson printed in the Magazine. The important thing is to actually gain better permanent control over ourselves and over those we would help in relation to genuine fruitful thinking. A Few Possible Problems for Class Discussion 1. Discuss briefly each of the following phrases selected from our textbook: "uncritical receptiveness", "essence of science", "insidious art of self-deception", "a make-believe reason", "superficial training of youthful immaturity", "the issue is fundamental", "the great hope". 2. Tell of one of the last times you engaged in some real thinking.. How long ago was this and what sort of situation stimulated the real thinking? With you, would you be willing to say that this kind of thinking is "rare and difficult"? 3. Describe a frequently met with counterfeit type of thinking. How are you able to identify it as not "real thinking'? 4. Point out several contrasts and similarities between the motor and the ideational methods of solving problems. What are some of the advantages and disadvantages of each method? 5. Explain the statements quoted in the lesson from Professor Bobbitt. 6. Joseph Smith is recorded as having said, "I want the liberty of thinking and believing as I please. It feels so good not to be trammeled." (See History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 340) To what extent is it your conviction that people in a democracy should be untrammeled in their thinking? 7. What are some of the best means you know of to use in order to successfully stimulate more worthwhile thinking? What cautions would you observe in relation to their use, especially with immature people? 8. Discuss the problem outlined in connection with last year's lesson on "Straight Thinking" which you LESSON DEPARTMENT 65 think best supplements the present lesson as here outlined. 9. Comment on the following interesting discussion of the 'Fine Art of Doubt" by Glenn Frank:* "Now and then I receive letters from anxious parents expressing fear that their sons and daughters may become infected with doubt in the class rooms and laboratories of the university. "They fear that their sons and daughters may find themselves, cut adrift from their religious moorings. "We need, I think, to remember that *Permission to make this extensive quotation has been obtained from The McClure Newspaper Syndicate. The will to doubt and the will to believe are companion habits of the mind and that neither is essentially more religious or less religious than the other. "That these two wills are of equal respectability is obvious when we watch the will to doubt at work in the field of science. "All of modern science has its origin in the will to doubt. | "And yet the doubt of the scientist is in itself a superior kind of faith, for it combines an unwillingness to accept ? the unproved with a willingness to adventure into the unknown, * * * "The will to doubt is the God-given faculty by which we protect ourselves against -spiritual fraud. "It is only when it is perverted that it leads to spiritual famine."