MRS. IDA V. LITSTER OF CLEVELAND, UTAH WITH HER NINE DAUGHTERS. MRS. LITSTER ALSO HAS THREE SONS Innocent Sufferers By Emma Mosheer E have heard on many ocW casions of the ill effects tobacco has on the user. May I put in a word for the non-user? Some smokers are considerate of others, but a vast number, through their carelessness and disregard of others have contributed to tobaccopoisoning of innocent victims, mostly women and children. We cite one case out of many where a girl was a physical wreck for many years, suffering first from the father's smoking and after his death from the brother's, even worse, for the father had used a pipe and the brother a multitude of cigarettes. For many years she went from home to hospital, where she would invariably improve after a few weeks, only to be ill again after returning home. She, like many others, was suffering from chronic tobacco poisoning. Probably many a child is delicate and sickly only 'because of tobacco smoke in the home. Those little ones who are fortunate enough to be taken away from such a home atmosphere soon begin to look much better. | No normal father is so indifferent that he would knowingly do anything to his children that would prevent them from enjoying robust health, but through ignorance the health of many women and children is being sacrificed at the altar of a father's habit.. In many offices workers are suffering from headaches daily, due to association with smoking coworkers. However, there is a ray of hope for betterment in the future. In the U. S. Senate no one is permitted to smoke while in session, nor is smoking allowed in some of the largest medical schools during classes. A great deal could be said about the economic side of tobaccoism. For instance, if a man used two five-cent cigars a day, he would spend $36.50 a year, or in ten years $365.00. Just think what one could do nowadays with this amount. It is harder to break a habit than to form one, so perhaps more good could be accomplished if the young. People were taught in time to prevent them from forming wrong habits.; The Lord has put the responsibility of training the children on the parents. True, all auxiliary organizations are helps, but they are not as responsible as the parents are. Many fathers have church duties besides the day work; mothers also have home, church and social duties, 'but no matter how urgent these are, the Lord does not release parents from this sacred duty of teaching the children both by example and precept. I often think of King Benjamin and Alma, what a hard time they must have had in trying to keep their children on the right path. I hardly think they neglected the training even though they had other duties; maybe that was the reason the Lord came to their assistance in giving the boys a demonstration of his power. Is willing to help parents now if they do all they can first. The Lord wants a valiant people, not cowards, but brave people to carry on the work. It is easy enough to swim with the stream, but he is the one I would admire who has the courage to stand aloof, apart if you please, who has stamina, character, manhood, or womanhood to stand true to his conviction, to the gospel, even when multitudes deride.