[Vol25 | February 1938 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Guide | Title: The Poise of Jesus]

Teacher's Topic
LESSON 8

THE POISE OF JESUS

"I am the way, the truth, and the life."—John 14:6.

"Every virtue, when pushed beyond its appointed limit, becomes a vice, and every grace, when overdeveloped, becomes a defect and disfiguration."—Jefferson (C. E.).

POISE is the fine balance of one's faculties, which keeps a virtue within its appointed limits.

In the character of Jesus we find perfect balance. He possessed all the virtues, yet none were overgrown. One writer says: "He was enthusiastic, blazing with enthusiasm, but he never became fanatical. He was emotional; men could feel the throbbing of his heart; but he never became hysterical. He was imaginative, full of poetry and music, throwing upon everything he touched a light that never was on land or sea, the inspiration and the poet's dream—but he was never flighty. He was practical, hardheaded, matter-of-fact, but he was never prosaic, never dull. His life always had in it the glamour of romance. He was courageous, but never reckless; prudent, but never a coward; unique but not eccentric; sympathetic but never sentimental. Great streams of sympathy flowed from his tender heart toward those who needed sympathy, but at the same time streams of lava flowed from the same heart to scorch and overwhelm the workers of iniquity. He was pious, but there is not a trace about him of sanctimoniousness. . . . He was religious, the most profoundly religious man that ever turned his face toward God, but never once did he slip into superstition."—C. E. Jefferson.

Because he was so well rounded, so well balanced, he showed in his conduct unrivaled poise. The intellectuals of his time tried to catch him, or trip him, but his answers were so wise they were vanquished. Satan tempted him to use his power for his own glory, but Jesus never did. His enemies heaped upon him all manner of abuse, but he never said anything unmanly in return. He stood in the midst of the strife and storms, which bent or swayed other men, but he remained unmoved and unmovable. Because he possessed all the higher qualities of character in such balance he appealed to all types of men down through the centuries. The intellectuals go to him for philosophy, for guidance; the painter, the poet, the musician, for inspiration; men who aspire to raise humanity to higher levels go to him humbly because he points the way; those in the midst of strife; those in trouble and sorrow find in him comfort and solace.

He is to men today what he was to men of all centuries since he lived upon the earth, the one perfect character. Only now there is perhaps a greater appreciation of Him and His teachings. He is our pattern and while we can never approach him in perfection of character we can obtain a fuller and more abundant life by following as closely as possible his example.

Discussion

In what way can poise be developed?

Have you known of anyone who changed in character through conversion to the teachings of Jesus?

Give incidents from the New Testament illustrating the poise of Jesus.

References

New Testament.
The Character of Jesus, by Charles Edward Jefferson.