[Vol25 | February 1938 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The Gave]

The Book God Gave
By Eva Willes Wangsgaard
ELEANOR sat on the front porch and leaned on a cushion propped against a post. The lights in the church across the street had just been turned on and their glow through the stained glass of the windows held Eleanor's eyes. "The panes are like my thoughts," she told herself. "Some are bright, some are cloudy." She looked down at the church door. Soon the members would come filing in. She began to visualize her friends as she had so often seen them entering that door. How she longed to be among them and feel their kindly greetings, to follow them in and partake of the spirit which they were about to enjoy! She knew the joy that can come of renewing the covenants in the fraternal presence of old friends. Still Eleanor sat alone on the porch and made no move toward obtaining her desires.
HER thoughts were interrupted by the swishing sound of a magazine hurled angrily across the living room to strike abruptly against the table. Then a chair fell with a thud to the floor. Heavy footsteps entered the kitchen beyond, and clumped across the linoleum. Suddenly, there was a crash of silver thrown into the sink followed by the faint tuning-fork sound. Eleanor wondered vaguely who had left a fork on the floor. The back door banged. Poor Harry, she thought. He never could understand her strange quietness on Sunday nights. He did not belong to the Church. In fact, he was bitterly opposed. He wanted her all for himself. He fought her interest in the Gospel with all the fervor of jealousy he would have expended on a rival for her love. He wanted her to be gay and smiling, to tramp with him through the hills this little while he was free from the grind of the shop. He could not see why she could not escape with him from the humdrum of life in a stirring show downtown. In everything else he came first, but on Sunday nights how could she forget the training of a lifetime and deny herself the joy of her church and its associations?
Eleanor heard the crunch of wheels on the gravel. She turned to see her husband as he backed the car from the garage. At the porch he stopped the car. "Let's take a ride," he said. Without a word Eleanor picked up the pillow on which she had been leaning and climbed into the car. She placed the pillow beneath her head and half reclined in the seat.
"Got a headache?" Harry asked.
"No," Eleanor tried desperately to command her thoughts. She wanted to say something cheerful, something that would make him understand that she saw his point. She wanted him to know that she appreciated what a fine man he was. She longed to tell him how glad she was that she had him. She knew his virtues and valued them. She loved him. How she loved him! In fact, there would have been no problem if she did not love him so.
But Eleanor was depressed. It's strange that an otherwise talkative person can be so dumb when a problem is so near her heart?strange that two people who love each other should have such a hard time saying the right thing at the right time. Eleanor's mind was a mass of unsolved problems. How could she talk to Harry about anything they passed or saw when her mind kept asking, "Is it right to stay away from church just because he disapproves? Ought I to go, or ought I to forget it entirely? My church is so much a part of me. Would he love me if I lost contact with it? Am I wrong to oppose him?"