[Vol25 | February 1938 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Literature | Title: The Romance of an Old Playhouse]

Literature
LESSON 8

THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE

SIXTY years after the dedication of the Salt Lake Theatre, Henry Miller, in a curtain speech on the stage of the Old Playhouse, referred to it as 'A Cathedral in the Desert.' And surely it has been as a cathedral to the people. Its doors have always been open to all parties and creeds. In the tense religious and political strife which cursed the community, more particularly in the early days, the Theatre was the one common ground upon which the questions of the hour were thrashed out. Though the place has always been controlled by the "Mormon" people, yet its use was never denied to those of different beliefs even though they were violent in their antagonisms. And so it was generally loved by all classes. This neutrality won their respect. The Theatre took on the aspect of a community home and has been so regarded ever since.

The author continues: "Upon its completion the fame of the Theatre spread far and wide. Its comfortable, dignified auditorium, its appointments, stage equipment, decorative art, and marvelous acoustics—all these characteristics marked it as a playhouse of class and distinction. And it was worthy of all that was said of it, for in few cities, even the largest, could be found a playhouse so perfectly furnished. An excavator in Italy recently dug up a plan of what was considered the perfect theatre acoustically; but really to find the most perfect acoustics, they needn't have gone so far, for this feature could have been found in the theatre built by Brigham Young in the Rocky Mountains in 1862."

Those who have had the supreme pleasure of seeing and hearing plays in the Old Playhouse will always remember its beauty as well as its acoustical properties. The writer of these lessons was young when he first began going to plays in the Salt Lake Theatre and though he was usually in the top tier of the topmost "heaven," he still remembers that he could hear and see.

He also remembers going with George D. Pyper under the Old Playhouse to get a glimpse of how it was constructed. Its sturdy foundations and its stout posts of native pine logs impressed him greatly.

That the theatre was not merely a cradle for the drama, but for all of the arts is indicated by Mr. Pyper in his chapter which he calls "Echoes From the Orchestra Pit." In those days, plays invariably had their music between acts and before the play started if not in the piece itself.

Here again the mission fields contributed the geniuses who were needed to make the arts flourish in the desert. The first of these talented men was Professor Charles J. Thomas, who assembled an orchestra of twenty pieces at the opening of the Old Playhouse. From that time on, almost without a break, a fine orchestra could be heard whenever a play was presented.

Professor Thomas was converted in 1851. Falling ill, his life was despaired of, when through the administrations of the elders he was healed. This had a profound effect upon him and his entire family. As a direct result all joined the Church and Professor Thomas came to Utah where a great work awaited him.

Not only did Professor Thomas lead the orchestra, he composed and arranged much of the music which was played. That his efforts were appreciated is indicated by the fact that the old bills frequently featured the music. For instance, "for 'The Charcoal Burner,' produced Saturday, January 10, 1863, the play bill announces 'Beautiful new and appropriate music, composed and arranged expressly for this drama by Prof. C. J. Thomas.'"

Professor Thomas was succeeded as orchestra leader by George Edward Percy Careless, also an English convert. Professor Careless is one of the great geniuses to be gathered by the Gospel net. He could have made much more money and lasting fame elsewhere, but he chose to remain with the people of his choice. Many of our best hymns were written by this man.

Mr. Pyper relates many anecdotes of this gifted musician whose heart was in his work.

Other men who led the orchestra are: F. F. Besley, Willard Weihe, Arthur Shepherd, Fred Midgley, Squire Coop, and Arthur Freber.

The first Utahn ever to write an overture was William C. Clive, a well known musician and first violinist of the orchestra. His number, "The Golden Crest," was played first in the Salt Lake Theatre.

Mention has already been made of the painting. The Theatre, itself, was a challenge to the artist. It was beautifully finished in harmonious colors that made an evening in its spacious auditorium an event worthy of being held as a sacred memory. Its great front curtain and its drops were also inspirational to those who had the privilege of seeing a play on its stage. Naturally, it was a constant incentive to the dancer and the musician, vocal or instrumental, who looked upon an appearance in the Theatre as being an important step on the way toward recognition.

One of the most popular of the early-day actresses to come to the theatre was Julia Dean Hayne. Her opening performance as a member of the Potter Company occurred August 11, 1865 when she appeared in "Camille." She proved tremendously popular and remained at the Theatre for more than a year, dying soon after leaving Salt Lake City. The author has included in his book, mention of a huge sled which President Young caused to be built and named the Julia Dean.

President Young's great interest in the drama and the Old Playhouse is presented no more forcibly anywhere than in the chapter where attention is called to the fact that he actually called at least a few young people on missions to act, though such calls were rarely necessary because all who had the least ability were eager, beyond measure, to play behind the footlights of the West's great playhouse.

Miss Nellie Colebrook was one of the first called to act in the Old Playhouse. The letter of call follows:

"Dear Brother and Sister Colebrook:
"Would you allow your daughter Nellie to act upon the stage? It would very much please me.
Your Brother,
Brigham Young."

The author follows with this statement:

"A published biographical sketch of Miss Colebrook's life describes her as a very diffident girl, but very queenly, and adds: 'How had he, the President of the Church, divined all the secret aspirations and ambitions of that reserved and shy soul! Who had heard from the sensitive lips one word of all that had burned in her heart!' To Nellie those questions always remained unanswered!"

Sara Alexander was another girl who was called upon a "Mission" to act.

"President Young asked her one day:
"'Sara, why don't you join the company?'
"'I don't want to,' she replied.
"'But I want you to!' said the President. And Sara complied and made an instantaneous hit."

Both of these girls became unusually popular as actresses.

Companies came and went. The Old Playhouse continued to be first in the hearts of the Saints who packed it whenever something good was presented. Many of the leading actors and actresses remained at the Theatre for weeks, playing different plays until they were well known and many of them were deeply loved.

President Young preferred comedies. He said: "If I had my way I would never have a tragedy played on these boards. There is enough tragedy in everyday life, and we ought to have amusement when we come here." However, he was not very dictatorial in these matters.

As early as 1869 the first operas were presented in the Old Playhouse, the first company being the Howson Opera Company. Their season was from June 1 to June 19. Among the operas they presented were "Il Trovatore" and the "Grand Duchess."

During that year, 1869, the Old Playhouse was open 283 nights, an indication that the dramatic presentations brought to Salt Lake City were popular with the people.

The coming of Maude Adams to the Old Playhouse is considered by the author a high spot in its history. He says: "As bluebirds in the spring suddenly arrive in our gardens as harbingers of happiness and good luck, Maude Adams, when only a birdling, fluttered into the theatre in the spring of its existence and became a part of its romance, bringing new faith and confidence in the wholesomeness and worthwhileness of the stage."

Mr. Pyper, as all others who knew her, adored Maude Adams and looked upon her as being among the greatest of the great.

In a pleasing reminiscent mood, the author wrote his chapters 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23 as he traced the intimate history of the building, that he loved, and the artistic expression for which it stood. Those chapters are rich in intimate glimpses of theatre life.

Suggestions for Study

1. It would be well to assign the chapter—"The Advent of Maude Adams—Her Mother's Story"—to some capable person and have her give it rather in full.

2. The anecdotes concerning Brigham Young in chapter 23 could also be given rather fully.

3. Careless' and Thomas' songs could be sung to correlate with this lesson. These may be found in the "Sons of Zion" or the "Deseret Sunday School Song Book."

4. Enumerate ways in which the Old Playhouse encouraged the arts.

5. Give evidences that President Young was strongly in favor of dramatic productions.

6. Where the plays are available, excerpts from some of these first plays could be presented in class.