SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
WHAT WE WOMEN DO WITH OUR
TIME.

	Economy of time is one of the most essen-
tial requisites to give peace and contentment
to woman. There are very few people that
understand how to dispose of their work so as
to have some opportunities for culture. On
every hand we hear the remark made, "I've
no time to read, no time to improve my mind.
I'm tired of work, work, sick to death of drudg-
ery; woman's work is monotonous."
	Every woman, and more especially every
mother, should have some time to devote to
individual improvement, and that, too, with-
out its interfering with her duties and obliga-
tions to her husband or children. Occasion-
ally we see women who will surmount hosts
of obstacles in order to pursue some special
branch of literature or art, but these are excep-
tional cases only. Women really seem to have
less time and more to do now than ever. There
must be a cause for this hurry and bustle, for
certainly things are not done so much better
than formerly, and many things are now done
by machinery that were erst done at home.
Too many mothers make themselves complete
slaves to their families, both in the matter of
dress and food. It is said when things have
gone on so far that they can go no farther, or
be no worse, then there is a turning point, and
in this one particular it seems they have
reached the fartherest extreme. Instead of
the mother in many households being waited
upon by her sons and daughters, she waits
upon them, devoting her time, strength and
energies exclusively to gratifying their tastes
and appetites, and calling it duty. She can
never find a minute to cultivate her mind.
Children can be taught to do many things for
themselves, if proper care is taken in training
them; and it makes them much more self-
reliant through life. O how the grandmothers
of fifty years ago would stare if they saw the
darning, hemming and stitching of the girls
now-a-days. Not so long ago as that, little
girls were taught to stitch, and gather, and all
that sort of thing, by a thread, but now ma-
chines do all this, with a little care and atten-
tention, and a great deal more even, and yet
there is no more leisure time, and not even as
much. Society has too many claims on wo-
men, and fashion brings them into complete
bondage Not alone flounces, ruffies, and the
paraphernalia of woman's wardrobe, but the
time taken up in complying with all the forms
and ceremonies of Madame Grundy's set, who
compose at the present day the elite of each
respective city, town, or village. This tyrant
queen, sovereign, empress, or MYTH, should be
dethroned immediately, if we would have ra-
tional mothers for the next generation. The
excitement of what is termed fashionable life

[Column 2]
amounts almost to insanity, and no woman
who leads a life of dissipation and folly can be
a true and consistent mother. And on the
other hand, the mother who makes herself
only a drudge, or a subordinate, in her own
household, will never develop her highest and
noblest powers for promoting true happiness.
It is not necessary to go to New York Chicago,
or any other large city for this class of wo-
men, for every town has its SET, who ape the
extreme of fashionable city life.  P[-]imitive as
this city may be in many respects, and far re-
moved from the deteriorating influences that
abound in larger towns, yet here there are
many of these fashionable customs (more pro-
perly termed evils) beginning to find votaries.
	These are some of the reasons why women
have not time to cultivate their minds. If
women were determined to inform themselves
upon the general topics of the day, the condi-
tion of nations, of governments, and the vari-
ous discoveries and inventions which are con-
stantly being made, it would be a sort of relief
from washing dishes and tending baby, and
would be of a much more elevating character
than to read sensational stories that give them
false ideas of human nature, and vitiate the
taste for a higher class of readlng
	It is true that household life is monotonous,
but it can easily be relieved of its sameness by
a little scheming and planning. Make up your
mind you will pass one hour at least every day
in the open air; it will be an antidote for head-
ache in many instances. Leave off stitching,
leave off cooking, take baby with you if neces-
sary, but go out at all events, it will benefit
you physically and invigorate and refresh you
mentally. If every woman would decide that
one hour every day should be passed in the
sunshine, (don't wait till evening, when all the
work is done and you are too tired to stir) and
one hour to her own personal culture in read-
ing, music, or whatever pursuit is most to her
taste, it would tend greatly to the promotion
of home-happiness. Cheerful faces and pleas-
ant conversation enliven the hours passed with-
in doors.  Wear your dresses plainer; dispense
with extra trimming on the children's clothes;
economize your time so as to be companionable
to those with whom you are associated; influ-
ence your friends to adopt the same or similar
methods of appropriating a portion of time to
healthy exercise and mental culture. We have
heard it remarked that women who do their
own housework have sufficient exercise; but
running up and down stairs, making beds, and
walking the floor with sick babies, are not as
beneficial as a pleasant walk in the open sun-
shine. Women who are classed by the major-
ity as model-mothers, are those who seldom go
beyond their own threshold, devoting them-
selves exclusively to household affairs, denying
themselves all self-culture, and in many in-
stances neglecting their health and spiritual
development. Every woman who values her
own soul should set her face as a flint against
dissipation, or excess of whatever name or na-
ture—the consequences are discontent, unrest
in the present, and ruinous to her posterity.


[Column 1]	
