[CONTINUED.]

	Well, I may say there are a hundred and one
things we have to talk about; and as the sisters
will give no reports, we will tell them what
they should do. Now, recollect what I have
said to you. Go to, from one thing to another
to make for ourselves what we need. Stop this
buying, so that we can have something on
hand.
	Another item. I will say to the Presidency
of this Stake of Zion, if you could take one-
fourth the time of the men who are idle here
and put it on the Temple, and take the other
three fourths and go to the Railroad Compa-
nies and say, "Gentlemen, we will turn you
out a hundred hands who will work for one
dollar a day, we would have the railroads in
our hands, and have every dollar that they
spend for five hundred miles. We might bring
every dollar in here, and live within fifty
cents on the dollar and save the other fifty
cents. How long would it take the men to go
down to the bed rock, where we were brought
up? I can see women who when they were
twenty years old six yards of calico was all
they asked for a gown, and that was good
enough to wear to meeting, or to a party; good
enough anywhere. If my mother and her
grandmother got one silk dress, an[-] they lived
to a hundred years old, it was all that they
wanted. I think my grandmother's silk dress
came down to her children. She put her silk
dress on when I went to see her. It was, I
think, her wedding dress; and she had been
married some seventy years.
	Some of the ladies wear a silk dress and say,
"husband, I w[-]nt another silk dress, I have
had this four years." Learn to be prudent. It
is no skill to get money, but it is a skill to
know how to preserve it and make it increase,
and bring to you an abundance to build up
Zion, and purchase what we want.

[Column 2]
	I wish to say a few words to my sisters in re-
gard to raising silk. I would like to talk just
enough to have you do something in this di-
rection. This is a matter that I have talked
upon for a great many years. Soon after I first
came to the valley, I sat on a load of hay in
Salt Lake City, and said, "this atmosphere is
full of silk and all good things; and we will
prove it to be one of the best places for raising
silk." We have proven that we can raise it.
There are sisters here who can reel it and make
it into cloth. There is a sister before me with
a silk dress on; she raised the silk, and made
it herself; and I warrant it will wear four
times as long as any you can buy in the stores.
(By invitation the sister arose that the congre-
gation might see the dress) I want to en-
courage you in this industry. If you want a
little change, you can very easily get it by
raising silk. Silk that we raise here, when it
is reeled, is worth from $8 to $14 a pound. It
is always a cash article, and finds a ready mar-
ket. There is no day in the week, or month in
the year, but what you can find a market for
silk, and get the money for it. I wish the sis-
ters would think of this. A few pounds of silk
gives you a little money. It is easily raised.
Where there is a little care taken you can pre-
serve the eggs so that you can raise two crops
of cocoons in a year. There is no trouble to
preserve them in our ice-houses, until the first
are disposed of, and so you can keep the crops
growing along. You can raise more money
than the farmers, and beat them in the produc-
tion of wealth. Take a woman with her chil-
dren, and they will make twice the amount of
money by raising silk that the man can make
with the farm. If you will try it you will say
it is true.
			[To be continued.]


