SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Thursday Jan. 3d, the Relief Society of
this ward held their annual meeting. The
Annual Report was read and accepted.
There was a goodly number of sisters in at-
tendance; the Bishop and his counselors
and several other brethren were present.
The President Mrs. S. MacRae made a few
opening remarks and wished them all A
Happy New Year. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Pres’t. of the Young Ladies Association,
made some remarks and alluded to her be-
ing about to go East on a visit, and her de-
sire to make it a mission for good, in pro-
mulgating the principles of the Gospel.
Mrs. M. I. Horne referred to the events of
importance which had transpired during
the past year, and the condition of the
church at the prsent, the union of the peo-
ple etc. Miss E. R. Snow spoke of the
great and glorious results which Joseph the
Prophet predicted concerning Relief Socie-
ties, also referred to the establishment of
the Home Commission Store, the sustain-
ing of home manufactures and the duties
of saints, in public and private, the consis-
tency of a true Christian, the storing of
grain by women, and many other subjects.
Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the great desire
she had to be useful; of the Bill now before
Congress to deprive this people of rights
and priviliges, and made some practical re-
marks upon matters pertaining to ever-day
life. Bishop Mac Rae gave some excellent
counsel and instruction, thanked the sisters
for their assistance to him in taking care of
the poor, wished them all "A Happy New
Year."
	The question in regard to land owned by
the Relief Society of this ward was brought
before the meeting, and a vote was taken
whether it should be donated to pay a debt
which was owing on the New School House.
All the sisters who had donated to help pay
for the land were willing that it should be
appropriated in payment of the debt. The
vote was unanimous and the land placed
at the disposal of the brethren to assist in
in paying the indebtedness on the building.
The lot is estimated over $1200. Meeting
closed with prayer by Bishop MacRae.
	MRS. MACRAE, Pres't.
