R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms Sat-
urday Jan. 18, was well attended, Mrs. M.
I. Horne presiding. The minutes read by
the young secretaries were full of good in-
struction and gave a good representation
of the condition of the junior associations.
Mrs. M. I. Horne made some remarks in re-
gard to the petitions for universal suffrage,
and the appeal to Congress to sustain us in
the rights and priviliges of citizenship
which had been granted to us by the Terri-
torial Legislature. Coun. E. R. Snow re-
marked that she had reports from all the
Relief Societies which had been sent her
when making up a report for the Centen-
nial, that would be very useful to them in
making up reports for the quarterly meet-
ing of the Relief Society; she also stated
that it had been considered proper to pur-
chase wheat to store for Zion with the funds
saved in the Woman's Store and asked the
sisters to vote upon the matter and it was
unanimously carried. She spoke of that
store having been started without any cap-
ital, and of the good results of the sisters'
labors there. Made many other happy re-
marks. Dr. Romania B. Pratt gave an en-
tertaining sketch of her college life in brief,
of her visit to the hill of Cumorah, its beauty,
and the associations which clung to it, her
own peculiar feelings on beholding it; her
visit to Niagara Falls; and her gratitude in
being blest to return home in peace and
safety. She spoke of having made arrange-
ments to teach a class in anatomy and
physiology, and referred to the medical lec-
tures every Friday afternoon in the Expo-
nent Office, and that she would be glad to
see more of the sisters come to them, they
were free to all. Mrs. Adelaide F. Smith
expressed her feelings, desires and hopes in
the Latter-day work. Mrs. E. S. Barney
earnestly exhorted the sisters to improve
the opportunity now offered them of study-
ing anatomy and physiology and spoke
briefly upon seri-culture, storing grain and
home literature. Coun. E. Howard allud-
ed to the Legislature now in session, and
thought we should sustain them by our
faith and prayers, that they might legislate
wisely for the future benefit of the people.
Mrs. Sarah B. Phelps suggested that all
those who felt like sustaining the brethren
of the Legislature by their faith and pray-
ers should say amen—Pres. Horne made
the motion and the entire congregation re
sponded with a hearty Amen.

