MAY THE SISTERS PRAY IN PUBLIC?

	The question usually asked is, May the
sisters speak in public? Or it is, May the
sisters be excused from speaking? We sel-
dom hear the question which we have
chosen as our title. Not that the sisters
have settled it one way or the other. We
suspect the reason it is not asked is to be
found in the fact that it excites no interest.
The right of the sisters to speak is the only
one about which there is any inquiry, sim-
ply because, if we except singing, it is the
only form of participation in our social
meetings which they have taken into con-
sideration. But why should they not pray?
Why are there not as many sisters ready to
kneel and lead the people in prayer as to
arise and address it? Among the brethren
the case is different; there are more who
pray than who speak, and the task of speak-
ing is the greater of the two. But among
the sisters there are far more of those who
speak than of those who pray. How shall
we explain this difference? The right of
the sisters to pray in public is not ques-
tioned by anybody. But we do not think
this accounts for the circumstance that it is
scarcely ever exercised. There is no hint
in the Scriptures which can be tortured into
its denial. We cannot suppose, however,
that the sisters suffer it to lie in abeyance
for such a reason. We confess that we are
puzzled. But turning from our futile ef-
forts to solve the mystery, may we not com-
mend to the attention of devout women in
all our churches, the privilege of which
they do not avail themselves? The loss of
feeling and unction in our prayer meetings,
occasioned by the diffidence, or the consci-
entious conviction whicy keeps them from
exhorting, would not be felt if they would
join with men in prayers. We would not
urge this as a duty upon any who feel that
their nature shrinks from all publicity. The
delicacy of woman is a boon so precious
that we cannot afford to wound or mar it.
But if any are not deterred by their timid-
ity, let them lift up their tender voices in
social prayer, and aid the church in this
holy exercise.
	[A little inquiry would satisfy our broth-
er, we think, that the propriety of the sis-
ters praying in public is questioned by the
same persons, and for the same reasons, that
their speaking in public is. This journal
published some articles a few years ago,
understood to be from the pen of a layman,
in which that ground was distinctly taken,
and in support thereof the writer cited 1
Tim., 2:8, sq., "I will therefore that the
men pray everywhere," etc.—ED. WATCH-
MAN.


