RESIDENCE ELDER JOHN PACK,
					Jan. 17, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Minutes of the Meeting convened to or-
ganize the young ladies of the 17th Ward
into a Mutual Improvement Association.
	Present, by invitation, to assist in organ-
izing the young sisters, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Hyde, President of the Relief Society,
with her counselor, Mrs. S. Reese, and other
assistants in office. Meeting conduced in
the usual manner by singing and prayer;
after which Miss E. R. Snow stated the ob-
ject of the meeting, and gave a brief ac-
count of the Juvenile Society of the ward.
Said "about four years ago, some little
girls went to the Bishop, and requested to
be organized into a Society; their request
was treated somewhat coldly, as the Bishop
did not understand what they asked of
him. However they persevered, and went
a second time. It is presumed that the
Bishop had seen Pres. Young concerning
their request, in the meantime, for he told
them that they could have the Meeting
House to hold meetings in at any time, and
blessed them.
	"I always admired that move, and to-day
bless those girls. But now it seems wis-
dom that the older sisters engage in this
organization. Many of the young sisters
have had experience in this matter, yet the
older ones should take the lead, that all
might be combined and work together. I
think the young married ladies should be-
long to this Association, and every girl as
soon as she is baptized. The organization
of these Associations is as much a revela-
tion as that of the Relief Societies; the one
came through Joseph Smith, the other
through Brigham Young, and if I was to
choose between the two organizations, I
should choose the one for the young, so many
of whom, for the want of such spiritual cul-
ture, have gone to destruction.
	"When we first came here there were no
regular schools; but as soon as we obtained
the necessaries of life, attention was turned
to educating the children mentally, but as
they were born in the Church, and heirs by
right to the kingdom, no thought was be-
stowed upon their spiritual culture.
	"The world educate their children to the
highest mental standpoint within their
reach. But we had come out of Babylon,
and thought we had left her behind; but
the spirit of the world had crept in among
our young people, and we had Infidels
among them, children of good parents; and
the question was asked, 'What will become
of our children?' and no one knew, until
the Lord spoke, and we were commanded
to organize and teach them.
	"We were met with scorn, but we had
our mission, and we have worked from then
until now. Many of the societies have
broken up, yet some have remained true to
their integrity; we knew the result must
be good, for the work was from God.
	"At first many of the girls were laughed
at for attending meetings, and scorned by
their associates; others met with more en-
couragement; the mothers became inter-
ested, when they saw the result, for now
the girls could testify that the work was
true; before they supposed it was, for their
parents said so: now they knew it for
themselves. So far the results have far
exceeded our expectations, and there are
many splendid Secretaries among the young
ladies.
	"On one occasion Pres. Young met with
us in our General Meeting, and heard the

[Column 2]
young ladies read their minutes, and he
remarked: 'Two-thirds of the men in Con-
gress could do no better than that.'
	"Pres. Young gave Elder Junius Wells
the mission to go through the Territory
and organize the young men; but the young
ladies have got the start of them, and
know better how to conduct their meetings;
but the young men are progressing and
moving steadily forward.
	"I want you young ladies to become quali-
fied that when the queens of the earth come
here, you can instruct them in the princi-
ples of the Gospel. In your meetings have
good reading—selections from good books—
and I must say many of the selections I
have heard read were as good as I could
make myself.
	"In the early days of the Church, the
young took delight in the work, and it was
no uncommon thing for the children to
speak in tongues, and have the blessings of
the Gospel poured upon them. But chil-
dren get no more than they earn, either of
the spirit of the world, or the Spirit of God.
No one can get the knowledge of God any
cheaper than Peter got it, when Christ said
'Flesh and blood did not reveal this unto
thee, but my Father who is in heaven.' I
remember in the early days some little
girls met together to hold meeting. They
sang and prayed and appointed their
speakers; but as they were sincere, the
Lord poured out His Spirit upon them and
they spoke in tongues and were so happy
that they had to tell of it.
	"Now some one must preside over this
Association, and I see before me many
young ladies who could preside with digni-
ty, if they would exercise their ability,
aided by the Spirit of God. We can use
any one who is willing to do His will. Wo-
man's duties are increasing year by year,
therefore, my sisters, prepare yourselves
for high and honorable callings. I propose
Miss Belle Clayton as President of this As-
sociation, but none of you need vote for
her, if you do not think this a wise choice."
	After some deliberation it was moved
and passed without a dissenting vote, that
Miss Belle Clayton be President, and Mrs.
Maria Dougall, Miss Ida Felt, Miss Phoebe
Tingey, and Miss Emmerette Brown were
nominated and sustained as her Counselors;
also Mrs. Josephine Smith, Secretary, and
Miss Denie Pack, Assistant Secretary of the
Association; Miss Lucy Smith, Treasurer,
and Miss Hortense Lang, Treasurer of the
"Penny Fund" for the Temple. All these
officers were elected by unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Julia Howe who had been Assistant
Superintendent of the Juvenile Society,
said she felt as if these young girls were
her own children, for they had been asso-
ciated together so long and she had learned
to love them dearly. Said they had done
well; these little girls had actually made
thirty yards of carpet, which had been do-
nated to the Temple. Said she should al-
ways be interested in their welfare, and
should miss their society.
	Twenty young sisters came forward and
their names were enrolled as members of
the Association.
	Pres. Mrs. Hyde said she was much
pleased with the proceedings to-day, and
felt that the President chosen was the right
one, and added her blessing, and prayed
that God would give his Spirit to guide the
young.
	Sisters R. M. Carrington, J. Pack, M. A.
Pratt, H. Doremus, J. Smith, Denie Pack,
Ida Felt, Phebe Tingey, Hortense Lang,
Edith Smith, Melvy Calder, Ella Dallas. E.
Groesbeck, Mary P. Young, Eliza Kettle,
S. Reese, Vinnie Clayton, and L. D. Alder

[Column 3]
each made some wise and interesting re-
marks to the young ladies, encouraging
them to move forward in their new organ-
ization.
	Sister Snow advised them to be punctual
at their meetings, and make them short
but interesting.
	Pres. Miss Clayton appointed the next,
meeting for the young ladies at her house
on Wednesday afternoon of next week at 3
o'clock.
	Pres. Mrs. Hyde adjourned the Relief
meeting until two weeks from to-day at 2
o'clock. Meeting closed with singing and
prayer.
		MRS. L. D. ALDER, Secretary.

	MANTI, SANPETE Co., Jan. 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is not often that we occupy any space
in your much esteemed paper, but I hope
that a short report of the doings of the
sisters of our ward will not be unaccepta- 
ble. The building of the Temple and new
meeting house in our midst, calls for our
best energies, and the sisters feel that a
certain amount of the responsibilities thus
created naturally falls upon them, and are
ready to respond freely and voluntarily to
the demands of the times. . It is, therefore,
gratifying to be able to report the flourish-
ing condition of all the enterprises we have-
undertaken. Under the guidance of our
much beloved and esteemed President,
Sister R. Wareham, we have commenced 
storing grain, and have already several
hundred bushels on hand. Our Society
Store is also doing well, having doubled
our capital from the time we started, about
eighteen months ago. This ought to speak
well for the management, and the interest
the sisters take in it. The general authori-
ties have the full confidence of the com-
munity, good feeling prevails, and a spirit 
of generous rivalry pervades all; our pre-
siding sister has determined that the gen-
tler sex shall not be behind in fulfilling the
duties and meeting the responsibilities with
which the times are pregnant. And thus
the good cause moves on, and we look for-
ward with anticipations of a glorious fu-
ture. 
	It is with extreme sorrow that we chroni-; 
cle the demise of one of our members, Sis-
ter Maria Bench, who was interred to-day.
She was an exemplary wife, good member,
and always punctual to the duties of the
hour, and her family have the sympathy
of the whole community. "Peace to her
ashes."
	Your sister in the covenant,
							W.C.


﻿IN THE city of Haverhill, Mass., several
hundred women pay taxes on $559,480.
They are going to petition the Legislature
for a right to vote in municipal elections.


