HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE LEGISLATIVE Assembly have, judging
by the minutes of their proceedings, a great
deal of business before the House this term; no
doubt they will dispose of most of the ques-
tions now pending judiciously. We have only
noticed one bill in relation to the privileges of
women, and that was among the unfinished
business of last session, which came up in its
order on Monday, Jan. 21, and on motion of
Councilor Burton was referred to the Commit-

[Column 2]
tee on Elections. Said bill is "a bill to confer
on women the right to hold certain offices in
this Territory, to which women are ineligible
now." We shall see now what can be done in
a Territory where women have the franchise,
to give them opportunity to become co-labor-
ers with men in some of these public matters.
The time has at last arrived when woman is
beginning to be recognized as a responsible
being, and one who has some special interest
in the laws which govern her sex in common
with man.

	THE PETITION for Universal Suffrage, which
has been in circulation recently through various
parts of this Territory, has been forwarded to
Washington with over 13,000 signature.
The object of these petitions in the various
States and Territories, is to obtain for women
the same right to the ballot as that enjoyed by
men. At the present time, men of every class
and color are entitled to vote and elect men to
office, to make and revise such laws as they
deem proper, while educated, intelligent wo-
men, eminently wise, have only such influ-
ence in the land as they can secure through
man. And men in all ages have been swayed
more by the charms of person in the opposite
sex than by any real greatness of character, or
nobility of principle. This is the true record
of men, which history plainly verifies. The
Congress of the United States is no exception
to this general rule. Knowing these facts, and
that women are oppressed with heavy burdens
of intemperance and many other evils which
disgrace the annals of the nation, is it so very
wonderful that woman should appeal for equal
rights? Are not women free-born as well as
men? and why should they be governed with-
out consent, or taxed without representation?	

	We have just finished the perusal of "House-
hold Education," by Harriet Martineau. The
book is really what the name signifies, and full
of practical hints, suggestions and instruction
in the ways and means of developing good ten-
dencies and suppressing evil ones, and culti-
vating at home in early years those attributes
which make men and women useful in life and
a blessing to mankind. It is an excellent work
for young mothers; many young women err in
judgment for want of a guide, and have not
counselors who are wise to instruct them. This
little volume will tell them many things that
will help them in training and caring for the
little ones' bodies and minds. We as a people
believe in seeking knowledge from good books,
and after carefully reading "Household Educa-
tion," we pronounce it one of the best books of
its kind. Home education is what gives socie-
ty its tone, and taking this fact into considera-
tion, one cannot but feel that this sort of edu-
cation is being fearfully neglected by the world
at large. "Household Education" is a suitable
size for handling, and may be read at intervals
while getting baby to sleep without inconve-
nience. It contains 366 pages, divided into 26
chapters; each treating upon a particular sub-
ject, but all bearing upon the special one, the
education at home. Price, $1.25; for sale at
James Dwyer's Book Store, Main Street.

	DESERET SILK Association met per adjourn-
ment Friday evening, January 11th, at the
Council House; Mrs. Zina D. Young presid-
ing. Elder Wilford Woodruff made the open-
ing prayer, and also made some remarks upon
the sericulture and the mission having been
given to the sisters, and commended them for
their untiring labors and the good results that
had accrued. The President of the Associa-
tion, Mrs. Z. D. Young, made some statements
of the present condition of the sericulture, and
future schemes for its promotion. Elder J. E.


[Column 1]
Taylor made some remarks relative to the busi-
ness before the Association, and related some
incidents illustrative of the present condition
of the Silk Association. Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. R. Snow and E. S. Barney each made some
remarks. Superintendent A. C. Pyper gave
his experience from the very first of President
Young's requiring the brethren to take hold of
the sericulture. Elder Paul A. Schettler re-
ferred to the quality of silk raised in Utah, and
the opinion of those acquainted with the qual-
ity of silk in France, Italy, and in Syria, where
he had exhibited; specimens; said they all
agreed that the Utah Silk was of the very fin-
est nature. The climate was one of the best
for the cultivation of silk, Elder Charles
Stayner, Elder Hurlburt, and Elder Graves
each made some appropriate remarks. Elder
A. M. Musser also made some suggestions in
regard to future proceedings in the work of
silk cultivation. A committee was formed by
unanimous vote to meet and decide upon some
special matters relative to the work.
	The special Committee previously appointed
met at the EXPONENT Office Monday evening,
Jan. 14; Elder A. M. Musser opened the meet-
ing with prayer. Some business matters were
discussed, ideas and opinions expressed, re-
marks made upon the necessity of capital to
purchase machinery, and the measures that
must necessarily be taken to obtain it; and a
committee of three were authorized to wait
upon President Taylor for counsel in the mat-
ter.
	The next meeting per appointment convened
in the Council House, Friday evening, Jan
25, Vice-President M. I. Horne presiding, as
the President of the Association was indisposed
and could not be present. Mrs. E. Howard was
appointed Secretary pro tem., as the Secretary
was absent. The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted. Mrs. Horne
stated that the Committee had waited upon
President Taylor and the brethren of the
Twelve according to appointment, but Pres.
Taylor was unable to see them on account of
sickness in his family, and therefore the Associa-
tion would not be able to do the business they
had anticipated at this meeting. Mrs. Horne
remarked that the silk culture really ought to
receive more attention in the future, and she
felt such plans should be devised as would
awaken a wider interest in its successful estab-
lishment. Miss E. R. Snow remarked that al-
though the Committee had not had an interview
with Pres. Taylor as had been expected, she had
held some conversation with him unofficially,
and he had expressed himself that the silk
culture was too much in its incipiency to war-
rant a permanent organization upon business
principles as a commercial enterprise, and the
present organization would answer in applying
for an appropriation. Br. Lorenzo Snow, of
Brigham City, would be willing to take charge
of the machinery. Pres. Taylor coincided
with the views which had been expressed by
some of the officers of the Association. Some
necessary business was transacted, and a com-
mittee of three was appointed to draft a peti-
tion to the Legislature asking for an appropri-
ation to purchase machinery and promote the
raising of cocoons. Mrs. E. B. Wells made
some remarks, and snggested the idea of mak-
ing presidents of Relief Societies local vice-
presidents, in connection with the parent As-
sociation, to further the interest of the people
in silk culture. Elder Musser gave his ideas
upon the subject. Elder Graves recommended
county organizations in connection with the
parent society. A motion was made by the
Vice President. Mrs. M. I. Horne, that all that
Presidents of Relief Societies and Young La-

[Column 2]
dies Mutual Improvement Associations
throughout the Territory act as local vice-presi-
dents to promote sericulture; and it was de-
cided by a unanimous vote of the meeting.
Br. Wm. Smith, of Farmington, expressed his
desire to see scriculture more extensively en-
gaged in as a blessing to the poor and employ-
ment for those who must have available labor
here at home in Zion; said he knew many in
the vicinity of Farmington intended planting
out trees this coming spring. Elder Musser
made some suggestions in regard to mulberry
trees, as it was now near the time for planting
them out, Mrs. Horne said a great deal of in-
struction had been given to the sisters in their
general meeting in the 14th Ward (which con-
vened semi-monthly), on the subject of put-
ting out mulberry cuttings, raising silk worms,
and all the primary work relating to sericul-
ture, and that the intention was to continue to
impress upon the sisters the importance of this
special branch of home industry. The name
of Elder Anson Gall as Vice-President of the
Deseret Silk Association was dropped, as he
had never taken any active part, and it was in-
convenient for him to attend the meetings as
he lived some distance. Miss E. R. Snow was
nominated to act as first Vice-President in
place of Elder Anson Call, and she was elected
to said office by unanimous vote. The meet-
ing was adjourned subject to the call of the
President of the Association.


