	PARIS, BEAR LAKE VALLEY, Dec., 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Not wishing to be entirely forgotten by
our friends, I send you a communication
from this portion of our Mountain Home.
The 6th inst. a special meeting was called
for the purpose of dissolving our Society,
as Paris has been divided into two wards it
was thought best to have a society in each
ward, the meeting was well attended and a
good spirit prevailed. Great praise and
credit were given to President Julia Lind-
sey and her counselors for the able manner
in which they have conducted the Society
in the past. After the business of the meet-
ing had been attended to, President Lind-
sey in a very appropriate speech presented
the Secretary with a beautiful book entitled
"The Women of Mormondom" from the
members of the society as a token of the af-
fection and regard they cherish for her and
as a remembrance of her faithful service.
	President Wm. Budge encouraged the
sisters to persevere and continue in the
good work they are engaged in, also wish-

[Column 2]

ed the Bishops to reorganize a society in
their respective wards at the earliest conve-
nience. The sisters have been doing all
they could to carry out the counsel of our
President, and to forward the work of ref-
ormation in this place. Financially we can-
not boast of our circumstances; still we have
done all in in our power to assist the poor
and needy, visit the sick, and comfort those
who mourn. A good spirit prevails among
the sisters, and they realize that storing
grain is essential to temporal salvation, we
have fifty-four bushels of wheat on hand,
and expect, if the Lord blesses us with
crops another year, to do more. We have
donated largely to the Logan Temple, and
truly feel to rejoice that we have a Temple
in course of erection so near us. If we
have not much of this world's means, we
are rich in spirit, blest with health, kind
hearts and willing hands that are ready to
help build up the Kingdom of God.
	May God bless and prosper the Relief So-
cieties, that they may accomplish that for
which they were organized.
