		BY REV. W. F. HATFIELD.

	In the Eighteenth street Methodist Epis-
copal Church, New York, Rev. W. F. Hat-
field, the pastor, delivered the third of a
course of sermons to young men, on essen-
tials to success in life. The speaker began
by saying that there are few questions of
greater importance to a young man than
"How may I succeed in life? what is neces-
sary for me to do? what course shall I
adopt?" These questions have been asked
by every young man, and success in life
depends to a great extent upon the manner
these are answered and carried out. There
must first be an aim in life to warrant suc-
cess. Some have ridiculed the idea of
having an aim or laying out a definite plan.
They tell us that there is a providence that
guides the affairs of men and it will matter
little what plans are laid so long as there is
a divinity that shapes our ends. But are
we to suppose that Providence is going to
do everything for man; that this will build
houses, carve statues, paint and fashion,
and make money and gain knowledge, and
that man has nothing to do but receive
whatever God chooses to bestow? Those
who have been successful have found that
while God has given them faculties for ac-
quiring knowledge they had to do their
part in educating these faculties, and in
having some definite object in view for
which to labor. Columbus, Wilberforce and
Washington each had an aim, and they fol-
lowed it until they gained the object for
which they so long and persistently strug-
gled. Temptations that lead to evil must
be strongly resisted. One young man sees
another of his own age who is
	LIVING WITHOUT WORK.
He has soft hands, wears kid gloves, flour-
ishes a cane, smokes cigars, rides in the
park, dresses expensively, and has an easy
time, and he feels that he ought to have an
easy time too. No man ever became wise,
useful or great who was an idler. But you
say, "I would work, but there is no work to
be found; nobody wants to hire, times are
so hard." If the thousands of men who
are out of employment in this city—many
of them lounging about the parks—would
go into the country they could find work
there. There are fine farms in New Hamp-
shire turned into pasture land because there
are none to work them. The young men
have gone into cities to earn a pittance
there rather than live like princes on the
sod. Resist a temptation to accumulate
money by dishonorable means. Never in
the history of this country has there been
such a mania for making money fast, as
during the past ten or fifteen years, and in
the hot haste to roll up wealth little heed
has been given to the methods employed.
And even now there are too many who
think that the great end of life is to make
a fortune, and it matters little what means
are used that are not openly unlawful that
will secure the coveted boon. Another ele-
ment of success in life is to rely on one's
self. One reason why so many young men
never succeed is because they are too dis-
trustful of themselves. They are like a
man learning to swim who has used a life
preserver so long that he dare not venture
into deep water without it. If he would
become a good swimmer he must strike out
where the water is bold, relying on his own
strong arms, and so if a man would be suc-
cessful he must cut loose from all artificial
helps and rely on his own abilities.
	The most important requisite of all is the

[Column 2]
formation of a character according to the
teachings of the Bible. No man can hope
to succeed who discards the teachings of
the Bible. They are the foundation of our
laws, and of the laws and jurisprudence of
the best governed countries on the globe.
It is here we learn that if we would be
really great we must be really good, and
that our highest happiness in time and eter-
nity only can be secured by having our
characters molded by those principles that
are the foundation of the Christian faith.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
