	SUFFRAGE.

	Come let us reason together. Is not the 
world in confusion?  Is there a place on
the face of the earth where truth and jus-
tice hold sway–where the weak are not
driven to the wall by the strong, where cap-
ital does not try to crush labor, and in re-
turn laborers do not fiercely hate capitalists.
Is it not fast coming to the time when every
man's hand is against every man?  Is there
any real confidence in any person, or thing?
Silver has lost its value, consequently peo-
ple have lost confidence in it; gold will fol-
low.  Has not man lost confidence in wo-
man, and woman in man?  Philosophers
say there is no cause without effect, or ef-
fect without a cause.  The Lord in speaking
of woman said "man shall rule over thee,"
but he did not say forever.  He also says,
"as you sow so shall you reap, you have sown
the wind you must reap the whirlwind."
From the remotest time that we have any
authentic account of in any nationality, men
have ruled over women with an iron rule.
Let us look at the present day without go-
ing back to pry into the past, which would
reveal heart-sickening barbarities practiced
upon women as a class, giving them no law-
ful protection only such as she could coax
from her master.  We will look at the 
United States, the freest of all nations for
women; men make the laws, also execute
them.  They make the taxes and collect
and disburse them.  If a woman has prop-
erty they make her pay her taxes on it.
Men bring women to disrepute for pastime,
then crush their partners in crime down to
the lowest depths of degradation, while
they hold up thei[-] heads among the most
virtuous of the land.  Men pride them-
selves on their powers of fascination to de-
stroy virtue, unblushingly.  A short time
since we read an account of a prominent
New York Politician, and aspirant for one
of the most important foreign missions,
leading astray the wife of a friend of his.
When he got tired of her he tried to put
her in a Lunatic Asylum, and so powerful
was his influence that she could get no re-
dress in the Courts of Justice.  She is now
dependent on charity, while he is living in 
his mansion on Fifth Avenue, admired and 
respected by his SET.  Men hold up their 
hands in horror at a drunken woman, but a
drunken man is a good fellow.  A woman
smoking is disgusting, but it is one of the 
fashionable pastimes for men.  Men shew
women every evil in themselves, yet de-
mand the strictest virtue and uprightness
in a woman  They require the widest lib-
erty for themselves, yet bind women with
chains that they would not bear one single
hour.  Men accuse women of unsexing
themselves, laugh at them because they


see they have all power over them, when
they ask for equal rights.  Gentlemen don't
you think that your injustice to woman
may have had some influence in bringing
about the state of things that is so compli-
cated as to defy the wisest of minds to
bring order out of chaos?  Don't you know
that a narrow education in woman means
a narrow mind in her offspring?  Don't
you know you rob yourselves when you rob
woman?  In your narrow policy you are
afraid that woman may  be your equal.
Why not?  Are you afraid she will treat
you to a dose of your own physic?
MARY
Grantsville, Jan. 12th, 1878.


