A VISIT TO ORDERVILLE.

	The day dawned bright and beautiful. It
was the Sabbath. I had looked forward to
this day, desiring to visit my dear Colima's
grave. The sun had warmed the air. I
started from Glendale, with my little boy
to keep me company. In the twelve last
years, since I left there, everything had
changed, except the everlasting hills. The
road ran on the east side of the valley in-
stead of the west, and all the crossings of
the creek were different. We walked up
the dugway, through a small but fragrant
grove of cedars, and crossed a creek. Noth-
ing familiar here told of the fatal accident
that called my child so suddenly into the
land of spirits. No familiarity of scene or
associations called to my mind the bitter
memory of the past, which connected me
in thought and feeling to the place. Over
ploughed ground and grassy pastures we
continued our way, through shrubs and
willows, where cattle grazed all unconscious
of my aching heart and the terrible re-
membrances awakened by nearing the place
of death; a small stream of water was
crossed, and before me was the knoll where
my beloved child was buried. I hastened
to the grave; it was concealed by shrub-
bery growing in wild profusion, and
smoothed by the hand of time, but the
mother's memory always discerns quickly
such precious earth-spots. With tears and
prayers I consecrated the spot anew, and
after an hour spent at the sacred place on
this holy Sabbath day, we proceeded on
our way to Orderville. As we rounded the
Yellow Mountain we came in sight of Or-
derville. Then we crossed a field and
passed by the vineyard and we found our-
selves at the village.
	I had some strange impressions as I
looked at the long line of low houses built

[Column 2]
of wood, and thought what havoc the fire-
fiend could make among them.
	I stopped at the house of a friend, who
was delighted to see me, and she exclaimed
in her amazement, "If you had dropped
from the skies I should not have been more
surprised."
	After a lively chat, asking and answer-
ing questions, she went out and soon re-
turned with a warm meal ready to serve.
"See how quickly I've got dinner," she
said; "its no trouble here; all you have to
do is to go to the cook-room and it is all
ready." To my inquiries of How do you
like the United Order? the answer was
from those interrogated, "I would not live
out of it for the world." Sister Maria took
me to the dining-room at sundown to see
the children at the table. There were three
long tables filled with happy, healthy, mer-
ry children, whispering and talking low
among themselves, waiting the arrival of
Sister Harmon. She entered, pronounced
the one word "Silence," and all were still.
The blessing was asked, instructions in po-
liteness given, and Sister Harmon said:
"Children, you must not throw a crumb
of bread under the table, or waste any-
thing, you know that famine is coming."
Contentedly the little ones ate their plain,
simple food and quietly passed out.
	I met one after another of friends and
acquaintances, who expressed surprise and
pleasure, until the emotions of the day al-
most overcame me. A few hours before I
had stood by the grave of my beloved child,
now I was meeting old and tried friends,
awakening memories and incidents of trial,
fatigue, sorrow, joy, gladness, all inter-
mingled in the remembrances that crowded
upon me. I met two strangers, who, by
their kindly greeting and sisterly manner,
seemed like old friends. Many varied
scenes crowded close one upon another,
crowned by this last—the glimpse of life
in Orderville. While chatting with Myra,
another dear friend, Maria, entered, and
asked me if I would like to go in to prayers.
I assented gladly, and followed her to the
dining-room. The tables were fast filling
with men and women, old, middle-aged
and young. When all were seated a hymn
was sung, then a prayer offered, and all
partook of the same plain fare as the chil-
dren had just had served to them. So
many persons gathered from all places, with
such a variety of tastes and habits, partak-
ing of the same kind of food, discarding
tea and coffee, and abjuring the proverb
that "What is one man's meat is another's
poison." After greeting and interchanges
of the kindliest feelings, I looked round
the room, and my heart swelled within me.
I was really among those who had estab-
lished and were carrying out an Order of
union, as near perfect and complete as
seemed possible in this state of existence.
The feeling of love and union that existed
there was strongly akin to the heavenly
feeling in the St. George Temple, and I re-
alized that some day, if they keep the same
spirit, they will be among the mighty and
wealthy of the earth.
	Supper over the room was cleared and
prepared for the evening meeting, which
was well attended—preaching by Mission-
aries from Kanab. After the meeting was
over, seated around a bright cedar fire,
which sparkled and glowed, filling the
room with warmth and light, we talked of
the past, present and future.
	That night after retiring, sleep disdained
to visit me until after twelve, for busy
thoughts were my companions. Morning
came; I breakfasted with my kind hostess,
who had been ill and was not yet recovered

[Column 3]
sufficiently to go to the general table, but
got her breakfast ready cooked. Doing all
the cooking in one place is an admirable
contrivance to save woman's time, instead
of a hundred getting breakfast separately;
a few do that work, and the time of the
rest can be employed advantageously at
other work.
	After breakfast we visited the cook-room.
The baker was making mush to mix with
salt-rising bread to eke out the flour, until
the milling was done. They have warm
bread for breakfast made with hop-yeast,
and salt-rising for dinner and supper. A
large boiler full of beef was in progress of
cooking, and two boys were preparing po-
tatoes for dinner, cabbages were waiting to
be cooked, dry bread was gathered up for
soup, a little boy was picking over raisins,
and dinner was being prepared for the
many. I saw the steamer in which the po-
tatoes are cooked over large boilers, or fur-
naces; the large, bright range, with its
capacity for cooking large quantities of food
and keeping it warm; the happy counten-
ances of the people in the next room at
breakfast, and I felt that here was a begin-
ning of something new—a step in the right
direction.
	The little that I saw I liked. Of course
the Order has both enemies and friends,
and there are many outside ready to find
fault and pick flaws, but my prayer is, may
the spirit of union and peace spread abroad,
until "The Order" will be the fashion, and
out of the order the exception.
					EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George.


