LETTER VI.

	I sit in the twilight of other days,
		Watching the shadows time has thrown
	As they flit like phantoms while I gaze
		'Mid the glamour of ruins ivy-grown.

	Who is there that does not love to revel
at times in the "light of other days," e'en
though it has faded and its beauty gone?
The charm lingers still though the reality
has gone forever. Life at its brightest,
when the heart was all aglow with pleas-
ure, left its impression engraven in such
forcible characters that time cannot erase
them, and though moss and ivy envelop the
ruin, yet we sometimes tear away this cov-
ering and find the shape and form of what
we once cherished, but perhaps defaced
and broken. Then better let it remain
screened from view by the sure process of
nature's beautiful covering than to seek to
remove that which makes it appear indis-
tinct, to find it changed, and perhaps crum-
bled to atoms. Let the ivy hide the ruin
and beautify it with its tender branches
and fresh green leaves, symbolical of the
love that covers all that is unpleasant in
the beloved object.
	If the past was really as charming as we
fancy it now from the distance, the ivy
will only enhance its beauty still more, and
if there were any hideous scars or ragged
edges unfinished, then this trailing vine
which weaves itself so fantastically around,
will hide their deformity, and in gazing
backward we shall only see the fanciful
covering time ever hangs around its scen-
ery.
	We should honor old father Time for he
works miracles for us all. The way may be
over so rough, the thorns may wound our
weary feet, the thistle pierce us ere we can
pluck the flower, but urged onward by this
white-haired monarch, who bears sway
over all the race of mortals here below,
anon we turn to catch as twere the echo of
our flying footsteps and what do we behold?
The path we trod, so rough, so dreary, beau-
tiful to us by the enchantment time has
thrown over it. We forget the cares, the
toils, the hardships, and remember only
what was lovely and pleasing. And as we
turn backward, the reflectiou of all that is
good and bright in our natures sheds a halo
of light upon our past lives and creates in
us a feeling of admiration in dwelling up-
on the picture. The sun at noonday throws
shadows forward, but as the day advances
he begins to throw his rays backward and
light up in beauty the pathway over which
he traveled in the morning, and when
evening draws near, he lights the distant
hills with reflections of incomparable
beauty. Is it not thus in individual life?
We travel on fearlessly, and unconsciously
after having gained a goodly distance, we
look backward over the way which seemed
so irksome while plodding along, and as we
review it, it is altogether changed in its as-
pect. We remember now in reverting to
it, many delightful shady groves, sunny
hills covered with verdure, in contrast with
barren plains, and there were sometimes
sparkling crystal fountains, where we

[Column 2]

quenched our fevered thirst and cooled our
heated brows. We remember with infinite
pleasure, the green meadows where we
gathered the fragrant cowslip and blue-eyed
daisy. After all there were many pleas-
ant passages in the life-journey. Among
these, dearer than all else, are the associa-
tions of those we loved, which we appre-
ciated so little (it may be) while we were
brought in daily contact with them, and we
could see all their faults and deficiencies
then, but now, when we meet them no
more, we remember only their virtues and
noble qualities—all that was lovable in
them comes vividly to our recollection in
recalling the incidents of the past.
	If a helping hand has been extended to
us in some dark gloomy hour, to help us
cross some wide chasm into which it seem-
ed we must fall if left to ourselves, if in
some path beset with difficulties a friend
has unobtrusively aided in getting us safely
through—even though we scarce noticed it
then so absorbed were we with our own
troubles or difficulties, yet as we recall it in
sober reflection, we bless in our inmost
soul that friend, who stood by us in the try-
ing hour. Sorrows make us selfish, and if
there are some who love us well enough
to overlook such selfishness, and stimulate
us to rise above our grief, or trials whatever
they may be—then indeed are they angels
though embodied in humanity. Life has
many pleasures if we can only realize them,
and there is much true sympathy in men
and women if we better comprehended
each other. Think of all the kindnesses,
the benefits we have received, think of our
own selfishness and ingratitude, and per-
haps the world will not seem so bad as we
are sometimes inclined to think it. It is
wise to take life in its brightest aspects
whether in looking backward or forward,
and remember as we do after our travels, to
recount the pleasant part and draw a veil
over the disagreeable, unless it is really
necessary to dwell upon it in order that
some other inexperienced traveler may
shun danger, or avoid unpleasantness.
There is much more of sweet than bitter
in the elements of life if we acquire the
requisite knowledge of extracting and com-
pounding them so as to have them blend
with each other in proper quantities. We
shall learn by and by how to live happily,
how to dwell together in love, and peace
will reign in all the earth.
