[WOMAN'S JOURNAL]

 The Bible is so often quoted to uphold ar-
guments against Woman's Rights, that at-
tention should be called to Numbers, 27th
Chapter, 1-8th verse.  We there find an ac-
count of the first occasion on which women
came before the public to demand property-
rights which the laws did not give them.
 We read that "Zelophehad, the son of
Hepher, had no sons, but daughters." "Then
came the daughters of Zelophehad, the son
of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of
Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the fami-
lies of Manasseh, the son of Joseph; and
these are the names of the daughters; Mah-
lah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and
Tirzah.
 "And they stood before Moses and before
Eleazar the priest, and before the princes
and all the congregation, by the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, saying,
'Our father died in the wilderness, and he
was not in the company of them that gath-
ered themselves together against the Lord
in the company of Korah: but died in his
own sin, and left no sons.
"'Why should the name of our father be
done away from among his family, because
he hath no son?  Give us therefore a pos-
session among the brethren of our father.'
 "And Moses brought their case before
the Lord.
 "And the Lord spake unto Moses saying,
'The daughters of Zelophehad speak right;
thou shalt surely give them a possession of
an inheritance among their brethren, and
thou shalt cause the inheritance of their
father to pass unto them.  And thou shalt
speak unto the children of Israel, saying,
If a man die and have no son, then ye shall
cause his inheritance to pass unto his
daughter.'"
 Notice first the second verse; what imagi-
nable occasion could be one of more public-
ity?  "Before Moses," the great law-giver
and leader of the people, "and Eleazar the
priest, and before the princes and all the
congregation;" in the presence of Church
and State, of the highest legal, religious
and civil authority, in the sight of that im-
mense audience of all the people, and at the
very door of the tabernacle itself!  Strange,
is it not, that Moses did not severely cen-
sure them for this unwomanly trusting of
themselves before the public, reminding
them that they were over-stepping the lim-
its of their sphere, that women did not un-
derstand business affairs, and that it was
audacity itself to attempt to improve the
great code of the Mosaic law which was of
divine origin!
	Now Moses probably had an opinion of
his own; but we shall never know what it
was, for, although he was the head of the
nation, standing between the people and
God, even he did not seem to feel at liberty
to lay, down the law to these women.  He
did not improve this excellent opportunity
for haranguing the people and exhibiting
his great sagacity and familiarity with the
ancient Egyptian writers.  He did not even
say what was really true, that it was not
the majority of women that requested this
change, but only one family.
 We are simply told that "Moses brought
their case before the Lord."
	Now who, of all the worthy patriarchs of
that time, would have thought of amend-
ing the law so that women should have
some property-rights?  Who, even of the
women would have done so, unless they
chanced to be situated as these sisters?  It
was true then, as it is now, that such
amendments must come through the efforts
of the parties most interested, if they are
to come at all, and if these are unwilling to
take the trouble, or incur possible odium.
by presenting their petitions, let them not
murmur at unjust legislation.
 We have our Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Mil-
cah and Tirzah to-day; but we call them
Mary A. Livermore, Lucy Stone, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and Julia
Ward Howe.  Upon their memories will
rest the benedictions of generations of wo-
men yet to be, who will owe better laws,
higher development, and broader sphere to
the untiring labors of these modern "daugh-
ters of Zelophehad."
FRANCES LOCKE.
Providence, R. I.


