		WOMAN’S PROGRESSION.

	The newspapers of the day among other items
of importance bring us good news of the pro-
gression of Woman's Cause. The past year has
given strength to the work by many large con-
ventions, calling together the strongest and
most powerful minds from different parts of
the country, and these women, earnest and
zealous, have presented in the most forcible
manner the ablest and most direct argu-
ments in favor of woman's elevation. The
right to equal opportutities of education is one
of the points in question, and much has been
done to give woman opportunities for cultiva-
tion in the higher branches of literature re-
cently. But many of those who do not direct
ly oppose it, (knowing woman has the best side
of the argument) sneer, and ridicule and insin-
uate, and in all sorts of indirect ways use their
influence to keep women from pursuing those
avocations that are considered the most eligible
for man.
	The better educated woman is, the more she
can accomplish for the good of all; the better
she can perform the duties of wife and mother
which we consider the highest duty except
obedience to God. One plea that many ad-
vance against woman's higher education, and
freedom, is that it will unfit her for the posi-
tion nature has assigned her as wife and moth-
er. But we sincerely believe it will only the
better qualify her. The mother who has
strong characteristics properly developed will
transmit them to her children in a marked de-
gree. This is a fact readily conceded by every
person of good judgment; then the more high-
ly educated the mothers are, the greater power
of intellect the children will inherit.
	So long has custom tyrannized over woman
to keep her in subjection, that it will only be
by small degrees women themselves can com-
prehend the advantages arising from the pro-
gress of independence of thought and action,
and a knowledge for themselves.
	The fields of usefulness now open to woman,
are widening every day. And there are some
good men—here as elsewhere, who welcome
her to the avenues which lead to a higher
range of intellectual and spiritual culture. But
men cannot walk by faith as women can, it is
not so much in their nature; they want facts
all the time, and the results of practise; and it
will take a little time to prove whether the
condition of society is materially benefitted by
woman's broader expanse of labor in the pub-
lic, as well as private interests of humanity.
Some things have been already proved; that
women are capable of mastering, as thorough-
ly and perfectly as men, the theory and prac-
tice of teaching, the science of medicine and
anatomy, and many other branches of educa-
tion and art. The one strong point that oppo-

[Column 2]
nents use is, that woman will lose her inde-
finable charm, designated womanliness, when
she can discuss knotty questions, has strong
opinions, can match herself with man in force
of character, and intellectual ability, instead
of sweetly assenting to whatever opinions he
may hold, smiling all the while he is pitilessly
crucifying all the finer feelings of her soul.
	Why is it not possible for man and woman
to love each other truly, and dwell together in
harmony, each according to the other all the
freedom of thought, feeling, and expression
they would grant to one who was not bound to
them by indissoluble ties; instead of the wife
giving all—that she may sit by his hearth, bear
his children, preside at his table, and merge
her life into his, to the extinguishing and crush-
ing out of all desires, ambitions, tastes, or capa-
bilities for anything save what he deems pro-
per, or right, his wife should engage in. Let
man also prove himself noble enough to share
with her such laurels as either may be able to
win in the battle field of life, instead of arro-
gating to himself the right to dictate to her in
all things, saying, "thus far shalt thou go and
no farther."
	We do not believe in pouring forth griev-
ances, or reiterating wrongs; these are not ar-
guments, and men will not have them; they
must be shown the happy side of the future,
not the dark annals of the past. That we
must leave—and we know there is One, Who
would not even suffer a sparrow to fall to the
ground without His notice. Jesus never turned
away from woman in scorn, or loathing; and
woman never sued to him in vain. Think of
this, you who sit in the courts of the nation,
and sneer at the mothers, wives and sisters who
entreat you to devise some methods to save
from wholesale destruction, by intemperance
and other crying evils, their sons, their bro-
thers, their loved ones, their fellow-men, or
allow THEM a voice in the laws of the land,
that will at least give them legal rights to pro-
tect themselves and their little ones.
	Of what are ye afraid? Has not woman ex-
tended to you the hand of sympathy, meted
out measure upon measure, pressed down and
running over with love and heavenly charity?
What more can she do to win your confidence
in her desire to improve the condition of all
mankind? Has she not unselfishly sought
your interest in everything which pertains to
home happiness! Will she slacken her efforts
to do you good because she has a wider field to
labor in, and greater inducements to stimulate
her exertions? No! woman's happiness can
never be complete without man's love; but
that love molded and tempered by its assimi-
lation to the exalted phase of woman—with all
her powers and attributes awakened to a su-
preme consciousness of her true mission as
man's real help meet, will give you participa-
tion in a purer sentiment, where there will be
scope for all the love implanted in the breast
of man.
	There is no doubt but that the concentrated
energies and eloquence brought to bear upon
Woman's cause in the National Congress, this
present year will be long remembered, and
even those who profess to think lightly of it,
and treated it with contempt and withering
sarcasm, will not be able to forget the sublime
enthusiasm, the dignity and grace with which
these noble women plead for the rights of
which they are unjustly deprived.
	There are some valiant workers in the cause
of woman's progression—we have them here
in our midst; women who are laboring ear-
nestly in improving and elevating the condi-
tion of society, whose efforts are untiring in
seeking to promote a higher and more exalted

[Column 3]
feeling and sentiment in the minds of the
young, than to spend their time in frivolity
and nonsense. Women who are prepared and
fortified to endure the sneers and opprobrium
of those who do not yet appreciate the cause
they have espoused; who in all humility seek
for the grace of God to aid them, in their ef-
forts to accomplish their noble purposes.
						E. B. Wells


