NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. EMMA Gates Conklin is the editor
of the New York "Palladium," a monthly
publication, "devoted to Literature, Poetry,
Music, and the best interests of our coun-
try—socially, morally, and politically."
	"DO ALL women vote in the cities of
England, or only tax-payers and house-
renters?" asks a subscriber. Only unmar-
ried women and widows who pay a tax on
property or who rent a house can vote,
these being the same qualifications as are
required of male voters.
	MRS. SOPHIE B. Herrick, whose micro-
scopical studies, published in "Scribner's
Monthly" during the past year, have at-
tracted wide attention, has become perma-
nently connected with the editorial depart-
ment of that Magazine, and is now widely
recognized as standing in the first rank of
American scientific women. A touch of
her quality can be found in the review of
Joseph Cook's "Biology," recently pub-
lished in "Scribner."
	PARLIAMENT MET on Friday, Jan. 17th.
The Queen did not open the session in per-
son, but sent her speech to be read. It is
mainly about the Eastern War. She says,
"Hitherto, neither of the belligerents have
infringed the conditions on which my neu-
trality is founded, and I willingly believe
both parties are desirous to respect them,
so far as it may be in their power. So long
as these conditions are not infringed, my
attitude will continue the same. No efforts
on my part will be wanting to promote a
pacific solution of the points at issue and
the termination of the war." She solicits
the liberality of Parliament to supply means
for adequate preparation and to adopt mea-
sures of precaution, should hostilities be
unfortunately prolonged.
	In the debates on the Address in the
House of Lords, Earl Granville called Lord
Beaconsfield to account for making utter-
ances during the recess in a tone of bellig-
erent neutrality, and for differing from the
sentiments expressed by his colleagues;
said if Russia's assurances were unsatisfac-
tory, Parliament should have been called
together immediately; but if satisfactory,
summoning Parliament now was to cause a
feeling of insecurity. To which Lord Bea-
consfield replied, that when the summons to
Parliament was issued, there were pros-
pects of peace negotiations; he repudiated
what the newspapers say about the policy
of government, and emphatically what
they say about a divided cabinet; he de-
clared he had written no letter during re-
cess, and had spoken but once, and then in
the presence of his colleagues; that Lord
Derby's felicitous statement, that "the
greatest British interest is Peace," was a
rhetorical expression, but Lord Granville
seemed to take it as a statistical fact; that
the government considered that there were
British interests which must not be endan-
gered if the contest goes on. There was
another kind of isolation than that arising
from decay. England once alone asserted
her national independence. The Duke of
Argyle said that Lord Beaconsfield's speech
was brilliant and evasive.—


