	     BY MARY S. GILPIN.


[This poem was written as far as the 10th stanza in Oc-
tober, 1847, after a visit of four hours; completed after
subsequent visits to Canada the last in 1869.  Now first
published with the author's name, from its having been
shown about as his, by C. F. C.- who obtained it in manu-
script under false pretense of drawing illustrations.]

They wonders are seen in the deep--O God!
On the mountain brow; where man's foot hath scarce
	trod-

In the cavern wild, and the mighty rock
Which has borne unshattered the earthquake's shock-

In the rush of winds through the forest deep-
In the avalanche slide from the Alpine steep
In Thy works of terror, and beauty- but here
O Creator!  Thy living power is near.

Majestic and awful it rushes past
With the whirlwind's roar and the tempest's blast
And the billows which fast the green islets kiss
Are hurrying along to their mighty abyss;

And the milk-white foam and the feathery spray
And  the Iris-hues of the promised bow
Are seen in the depths of the gulf below.

From shore to island I'm borne along
By the Syren-voice of the cataract's song,
And I catch the swell of the torrent's flow
As I fly through the woods in their golden glow.

Then I pass to the cliff's protecting verge,
And  list to the swell of the sounding surge,
Where from Luna's Isle with a plunge and cry
The youth and  maiden were borne to die.

Then I cross the rock and the winding stair
Where floats the spray on the bouyant air
To gaze, from the height of the islet tower,
On the Crecent-fall in its wondrous power.

Where far as backward the eye can glance
Whirl and toss the rapids in a wondrous dance
Til the chrysolite wall, and the beach of snow
Are merge iu the stillness of death below.

When the "Maid of the West" may serenely glide
Nor dread the swell of the fathomless tide
Till it rises and rushes far below
In the ebon whirlpool's eddying flow.

Where far above with majestic span
Stupendous hangs the bold, work of man-
And two mightiest nations stand side by side
By countless and closest chords allied,

There a peaceful river Niagara flows
In Ontario's bosom to seek repose.
And a thousand navies may calmly ride
What erst had 'whelm'd the in ruin wide.

Then on and onward St. Lawrence hies
Embracing in beauty her "thousand isles"
Till Ottawa's tribute waters fall
As it leaves the bold heights of old Montreal.

Where the "boatman's song" in its chorus clear
Erst charmed the young "Bard of Erins" ear
As they "pass the wood in the twilight dim"
To sing at St. Ann's their parting hymn.

Then passes the high, embattered wall
Which saw the bravest of heroes fall,
Still chanting the solemn requiem
Of the gallant Wolfe and the brave Montcalm;

Thence with deep ping width, and majestic force
The mighty river pursues her course
Till, met by Atlantic's resistless tide,
In old Ocean's bosom shall calm abide.

And thus shall Life's "cares, joys, hopes, and fears,"
The mighty current of Time's dread years,
As they wash and swell o'er the eddying pool
And on toward Eternity's waters roll-

Be but as the course of this mighty river,
And through Christian faith as it faltereth never,
Still peacefully anchor each pilgrim blest
In the depths and fulness of Heavenly rest.


[Column 1]

