			PIPSEY PAPERS.

	The net was cast into the sea, and it
gathered of all kinds. If there were not
bad as well as good among us this would
not be the net spoken of by the Savior; but
judging by appearances we are in the right
net.
	I called upon some friends a short time
ago, and found them very much annoyed
by the neighbors where they resided: feel-
ing as though they were rude, dishonest
and disobliging: in fact, anything but what
Saints should be. No doubt this was all
true, but what can we expect if the net
gathers of all kinds? Should we not look
for variety? Are there not spirits brought
in which not even the gentle influence of
Christian life can refine, and as like begets
like, can we expect grapes of thistles, or
figs of thorns?
	This is an age of progession, and yet how
hard it sometimes seems to progress in the
right direction. The Gospel of Christ em-
braces all purity, virtue, goodness and re-
finement; but some of us have been forced
to pass through so many trying scenes, so
many hardships, that only the roughness of
our natures could survive the conflict. God
says His saints shall be as gold refined in a
furnace. I sometimes think we are passing
through that purifying ordeal, when I see
the trials and afflictions this people are
called upon to encounter, the aggravating
circumstances we are sometimes placed in,
and the hardships we have to endure.
	Mr. Tullidge in his last work has called
the Mormon women Spartans; but they
were not born Spartans; they did not in-
herit hardship as their right, nor constitu-
tions to battle with it. Those who have
passed through the most hardships, were
born and bred among the delicacies and re-
finements of civilization, and inherited the
tastes and dispositions pertaining to their
early life and training. I have sometimes
thought it was small cause for wonder, if
they should become rude and selfish; in
fact, the wonder is that the better part of
their natures was not altogether lost, the
tenderness and sweetness burned out by
the cruel, seething fires through which
they have been called to pass.
	But there was heroism in the tenacity
with which they clung to their faith, al-
though some faltered and turned away, and
some fell by the wayside, as many a lone
grave will testify all the way from Kirt-
land to Missouri, from Missouri to Nauvoo,
from Nauvoo to Salt Lake. Grand trage-
dies like great wounds are sometimes borne
because the suddenness of the shock leaves
no way of escape. Like great wounds, too,
comes the time of healing, the lingering
agony, the slow convalescence, and many a
ghastly scar is left which no soothing cor-
dial or fantastic covering can smooth or wipe
away. The author of the "Women of Mor-
mondom" has sought to make a record for
the daughters of Zion. In historical items,

[Column 2]
so far as it goes, it is no doubt quite cor-
rect, but how little is told, how lfttle can
be told. Tongue could never speak nor pen
record a full account of their wrongs, their
sufferings and privations, the cares and dis-
appointments, the slow torture of hope de-
ferred, the wintry blasts, the scorching suns,
the weariness, the sadness, and the heart-
sickness, through which these Mormon
women pioneers passed.
	As little foxes spoil the vines, so the
small vexations and daily cares wear out
the strength and break down the courage.
He eulogizes them highly, and his eulo-
giums are well deserved; for if not born
Spartans, they certainly showed Spartan
heroism in their firmness and devotion to
the cause they had espoused. They felt
within their hearts the conviction that they
were obeying the commands of God, and
that He would overrule everything for the
best good of those who loved him and kept
His commandments.
	The editor of an eastern paper suggests
that "A Mormon Romance"—a tale show-
ing up Mormon wretchedness would be just
the thing. I think I could tell many a tale
of suffering, hardship and privation, but no
doubt it would not meet their approbation.
Something of a different nature from any-
thing I should portray would better suit the
public taste. They would invade our sanct-
uaries, open our closets, and drag forth the
ghastly skeletons for the pity or derision of
the world; or, finding no skeletons worthy
the exercise of their genius, they would
call imagination to their aid, and conjure
up some phantom of fright to intimidate
the weak, or amuse the ignorant.
	Writing on this subject reminds me of a
little incident that occurred during our
early pioneer life, which, perhaps, would
not be out of place in these columns. In
the winter of 1850-51 Salt Lake City was laid
out and fenced in wards, but the cross roads
were not yet fenced. Across the street
from where we lived was a vacant lot, on
which some one was preparing to build;
they had dug a well about sixteen feet deep,
which was about half filled with water.
During the winter the snow had fallen quite
deep, covering the ground and carefully
smoothing over all landmarks. Some days
after the snow fell, the wind raised and
blew very hard; it raged and howled dis-
mally, making us thankful for the bit of
shelter we possessed, and glad to draw
around the fire. Towards night, neighbor
Beech, who lived a little North-West of us,
came in to tell of an adventure he had had.
He said he kept hearing some sound, which
seemed different from the shrieking of the
wind, but so faint that he could not tell the
nature of it. After listening a while he
determined to investigate the matter. He
accordingly put on his great coat, and start-
ed out, following the direction of the sounds
until he reached the lonely well, where he
found a neighbor women, who, while cross-
ing the block without a path, had walked
into it. Her arms and clothing supported
by the snow, held her head above the water,
where, far below the surface, she had be-
come nearly exhausted with the cold and
her frantic efforts to make herself heard.
He procured assistance and released her
from the very unromantic situation, giving
her in the care of her friends. It caused
some merriment for the young folks, but
was no joking matter for poor Nancy, and
I will venture to say that she was careful
the next time she went out to follow the
proper road. How many of us in this life,
in leaving the right path and the advice of
friends, meet with unseen dangers. There
is many a pitfall for the unwary, and youth


and inexperience are often ensnared where
the way seems smoothest and most plea-
sant. MARY


