TWO PAIRS OF HANDS.

	What! Have hands a history? yes; and
if you will put down your work and come
and sit beside me, I will relate to you their
story. You see those hands laid with such
exquisite grace on the black velvet and
cushion? Ah, yes; how soft and delicately
molded is each curve and outline. Thefingers taper to the waxy, transparent nail,
and the pink tips are just formed to press
the ivory of the piano. The fleah is white
and satin smooth. "How beautiful!" you
are led to exclaim, "are the hands of a fair
and delicate woman." As they lie there
in their fair beauty, bend the ear of your
imagination, and hear them tell their story:
	"We were cared for with all the tender-
ness a fond mistress could bestow on that
which adds so much to her appearnce in
society. The kid has been shorn, the finest
silk has been sought for, to protect us from
the sun and wind. Our owner would never
think of placing us to do that work which
belongs to the kitchen wench. Look at us
in our beauty! What good have we ever
accomplished? To be sure we glide softly
over the piano keys, or perchance fashion
some delicate garment for our owner. We
are taught to intertwine gracefully to en-
hance the glitter of the diamonds with
which we are adorned. We attract atten-
tion to our mistress, and help her to secure
to herself that admiration and flattery
which is the life of her life and aim of her

[Column 2]
soul. Oh, stay; you ask us what good we
shall have been the means of doing our
mistress in the next world, and what use
we shall be to her in the great eternity to
come? Oh, bless our hearts! why do you
suggest such disagreeable thoughts? Well,
our mistress says she is living for this
world, and if this life, which is only a drop
in the great sea of eternity, is all that she
cares for, we shall not trouble ourselves
about anything else. And when death
comes, we shall make a very lovely sight
to the mortal eye, crossed over the heart
that knew no higher aim than an assidious
care for us. We shall repay her at least."
	Ah, my friend, you turn away with a
sickening disgust from these white, useless
hands. Well, I blame you not. Just look
now at this pair of hard, seamed, dark
hands. The fingers firmly interlocked,
showing the force of character in her whose
life has been made up of toil. We will
listen also to them, and take to our hearts
and lives the lesson they will teach.
	"We are the servants of her who never
spends a moment upon us, but to cleanse
and dry the skin. We are always em-
ployed; no moment is laid on the altar of
time unless used in some way. Besides the
usual daily housework, we fashion a useful,
comfortable bonnet for some old lady friend;
put together in dainty form a hood to frame
a sweet baby face. We strive to help our
owner to make that which we handle dainty
and delicate, and to spare no toil to make
her home happy and cheerful for her moth-
er and two precious fatherless boys, rather
than seek to preserve our beauty at the ex-
pense of others' hearts and hopes. Yet
when sickness prostrates those around our
owner we are guided with loving tender-
ness over the suffering brow, and many an
agonized lip has pronounced our touch the
most soothing mortal can know. And we
are taken to the kitchen, to prepare that
for the sick which will comfort the body
while our gentle pressure soothes the throb-
bing brow. We have accompanied our mis-
tress to many a stricken home, and are
never tired of doing good. We will con-
fess to you, in strict confidence, that some-
times she whom we serve with such dili-
gence will look at us with discontent, and
actually murmur at our plainness. Yes, it
was painful, after we had done so much to
secure eternal happiness for her, and to
hear her complain of us and wish we were
otherwise. But then we forgave the weak-
ness and still served her faithfully. The
next world? Ah, indeed, we have no fear
of that; and when we are folded above the
heart which has never known guile, we
shall await with peace our call to come forth.
And there we will be honored for our good
works on this earth, and blessed by those
to whom we have ministered in this life."
	Are not those hands lovely to you now,
my friend? They are to me, and I some-
times reverently kiss them for the noble
work they are doing.			S. Y. D.
	St. George, Jan. 28.


IT IS said that it costs $177,444 a year to
supply the American army with tobacco.
"The extravagance of women is ruining
the country!"


