MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE ladies of Amesbury, Mass., have given
Mr. Whittier a birthday present of a Russian
leather portfolio containing sketches in wa-
ter-colors of Amesbury scenery by an Ames-
bury artist. Many of them illustrate the
scenes with which Mr. Whittier has bright-
ened his poems.

	THE study of law is invaluable to the
practical philanthropist. The strongest thun-
derbolts ever hurled at the system of slav-
ery were forged on the anvil of law. The
most powerful weapons used against the
liquor traffic are obtained from the same ele-
mentary principles of justice and equality
					—Lavinia Goodell.

	IN Rome public education under Govern-
ment auspices is increasing. There are
now forty-six common schools for gratui-
tous instruction, and ninety-four private
schools. Before 1870 few were the child-
ren of the poor who could read or write.
Now it is a badge of reproach for a family
not to send its children to school. Several
of the monasteries have been converted in-
to hospitals. Free libraries have been es-
tablished in different quarters of the city.

	IT will be well to disabuse women in gen-
eral of their erroneous ideas concerning a
literary career. A woman must not expect
to find any play when she adopts literature
for a profession. A practical writer leads a
life of "bona fide" drudgery. She may,
now and then, find her pet poems, or finely
written stories or essays, accepted and paid
for; but if she would make an actual living
at the business she must devote herself to
it.					—Mrs. E. B. Duffey.

	MR. Longfellow said at the Whittier din-
ner: "I do not know why I cannot make
an after dinner speech as well as other peo-
ple, but I cannot. I have made several at-
tempts and I have always noticed it to pro-
duce a depressing influence." Mr. Charles
Dudley Warner quietly begun his talk thus:
"Mr. Chairman—It is impossible to express
my gratitude to you for calling on me.
There is but one pleasure in life equal to
that of being called on to make an after-
dinner speech, and that is not being called
on. It is such an enjoyment to sit through
the courses with this prospect like a ten-
pound weight on your digestive organs."


[Column 1]
