The outstanding thing that we should have in mind in teaching the lessons on Christ's second coming is its literality, its reality. Many religious organizations accept the coming of Christ in doctrine, but fail to accept it in truth. Moreover, when you and I become sufficiently trained in interpreting the promptings of the Spirit, the signs of the coming of Christ will not be without meaning to us. Most remarkable statements are made in the Doctrine and Covenants with respect to the conditions that will exist upon the earth during the time of Christ's Millennial reign. The earth will be changed and its waste places will be reclaimed. Incidentally let me assure you that scientific or other discovery will never disprove the truths revealed in the Doctrine and Covenants. At first thought it may appear largely theoretical that the mountains will disappear, that the valleys will be filled, and that the seas will be driven off until they occupy a single place, but permit me to say that, from a scientific point of view, this is not at all improbable. I urge you to have faith in the word of God. I am impressed to stress the necessity of Latter-day Saints being loyal to the Church and its leaders. Our leaders are divinely called, and God has said that we should accept the word of our Prophet as if He Himself had spoken it. It is not the prerogative of Latter-day Saints to question the wisdom of the acts of our Church leaders; it is our duty to support them in all that they have for us. God has given us the frequent opportunity of raising our hands in support of their support, and when we accept them God expects that it will be whole-hearted. Let us remember that our present day Prophet occupies the same position in the sight of God that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Joseph Smith, the first leader of the Church, occupied. If I were you, in the lesson dealing with the power of prayer, I should teach it as though I meant it. I would teach prayer as a reality, but I would, not expect the Lord to grant requests that are unreasonable. It has been argued by some unbelievers that prayer cannot be answered because natural law must take its course. This criticism, however, is without foundation. Let me illustrate: A few days ago I had occasion to be taken to a railroad station. I called the office of a downtown taxicab. Company. The clerk at the central office called a station close to my, home, and in the course of a few minutes an automobile was at my door. Everything in the entire process was in conformity with natural law. Likewise, when God answers our prayers He may work in precisely the same way. Please also bear in mind that an insincere petition to God will not be answered. The Lord has made the requirements of prayer extremely rigid. He has said, for example, that we must ask in faith, without wavering. Iam willing to grant that this is a difficult prescription, but a half-hearted prayer, a prayer for something that is unwise, cannot be answered. In lesson number four, which has to do with "Jesus, the Creator and Overseer of the Earth," please attempt to discourage the thought that there are two sets of laws in the universe, one by which nature operates and one by which God operates. Let it be understood, once and for all, that there is only one set of laws in the universe, and these laws are God's laws. Do you remember the story told of the boy who accidentally slid down the roof of a house. As he neared the edge, going at full speed, he called upon Deity for help. But just as he was about to be plunged over the eaves, his trousers caught on a nail, and he said aloud: "Never mind, God, I have caught on a nail." The Lord God is Omnipotent; He is in control of all law. Sometimes He answers our prayers in a way that can be easily understood, 'and sometimes in a way that is difficult to understand. There is no such thing as natural law set off against God's laws. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the author of all law. IN the two lessons dealing with Gems of Truth I have attempted to discuss a few things that are particularly characteristic of our people. I think there is no more beautiful passage in the Doctrine and Covenants than that so frequently quoted by President Grant, to the effect that every blessing which we receive is predicated upon the compliance with law. 'Teachers, do not fail to make it plain to your students that in order to receive a blessing at the hands of God, the law that governs that blessing must be complied with. You remember the widespread notion among certain sectarians that God distributes His blessings wheresoever He chooses, irrespective of merit. One of the solid foundations upon which our religion stands, likewise the strength of its people, is the fact that you and I must obey if we wish to obtain the blessing. HURRY on to the closing lesson, number nine, the one entitled "Zion's Camp." You will recall that the people in Missouri had suffered seriously at the hands of their enemies. When the word was sent to the Prophet his heart went out to the suffering saints. He received LESSON PREVIEW 23 a revelation from the Father to gather together a group of volunteers to go to the relief of the stricken people. Zion's Camp was the result. More than one hundred individuals marched five hundred miles, but before its apparent purpose had been completed the camp was disbanded, and the individuals were told that they might go home. There was much complaint and dissatisfaction, since it was felt by many that the purpose for which Zion's Camp had been created had failed. A little later, however, God told His Prophet to gather together those who went with Zion's Camp, and to select from their number the twelve apostles. He was told to likewise select from that number the first quorum of seventy. Little did the members of. Zion's Camp know when they were trudging through the swamps of Illinois and Iowa that they were being tested for their endurance and strength of character. They saw only the possibility of material relief for their brethren and sisters who had suffered at the hands of mobs. The great purpose of God was thus obscured from their view and it was not until after the test had been made that' His purpose was revealed. Teachers, carry that thought home to your people and give it local application. I bear you my testimony that "Mormonism" is true, and I pray God to bless your efforts to teach it to others. Photo by W. D.