A New Year's Resolution
By Elsie Rich Williams
Patricia Dean intended to enter college when the fall term opened. She had never considered anything else. Her parents, of course, would have to pay the expenses, how??well, that was their problem, and but a mere detail to Pat.
Pat, checking over her clothes, set some aside to remodel, and discarded the rest. Mrs. Dean gazed reflectively at her daughter. This slim, vital miss, so hungry for life, and with such an insatiable thirst for knowledge, was her baby daughter, her plump, cuddly baby of so few short years ago. Now she was eager for more fields to conquer, enthusiastic and confident of her powers, ruthless in her desires.
"Look, mother," said Pat, "only these three dresses are worth fixing. I'll need a new dark evening dress, either satin or a slinky velvet. I'd better get a new suit, an extra skirt and a twin sweater set, too."
Mrs. Dean sank dejectedly on the bed. Softly humming, Pat rhythmically tapped her slim feet on the hardwood floor. As Mrs. Dean made no reply, Pat faced her abruptly.
"Why the serious air, mom?"
"Pat, I know you'll be disappointed, but your father and I can't possibly send you to college this year."
The girl's eyes flashed indignantly. "Mother! After all I've planned! Why, everyone is going! What was the use of passing high school with a straight 'A' record, if I can't go to the 'U'? Let Viola stay home!"
Mrs. Dean shook her head sorrowfully. "Viola only needs another year to get her degree. She should have that chance."
"Yes, and sacrifice me!" Pat exploded. "Why can't we both go? Dad has plenty of work and makes good money."
"Don't forget he has plenty of ways to spend it, too. There were the doctor bills from his broken hip, the expense of having Bruce home out of work for several months, our bank losses, and then my trip to California when Mary was sick. Your father isn't so vigorous as he was and it's too much to expect him to send two girls to college."
"You've sent all the others, why deprive me? You always said I was the most brilliant."
"You may have a fine mind, Pat, but your heart needs a little education, too. Sometimes a kind heart means more than all the brilliancy in the world."
"I don't care!" Pat tossed her head defiantly. "If you don't let me go?I'll run away?get married?to anyone who will marry me!"
"Oh, Pat, you wouldn't do that!" her mother begged. "It's only for this one year I'm asking you."
"Please, mom! You'll have to let me go this year! Promise, please!"
Wailing, with a heart rending quiver in her voice, Pat flung herself on her bed, peering slyly at her mother to watch its effect.
Mrs. Dean sighed, "I'll try to persuade your father?."
"Hurrah, mom, you're a darling!" Pat threw her arms around her mother, kissed her exuberantly, and dashed to the door. "I'll be back soon, I want to see Ruth."
"But your room??"
"I'll clean it later. 'Bye. And don't forget the velvet dress, will you, mom?"
"Pat, please, not any more now. Hurry back to help with dinner."
The girl immediately disappeared. Mrs. Dean wiped her glasses, then gathering the dresses from the floor, attempted to give the room some order.
Ruth Lyons was a round, little person, half a head shorter than Pat, and of a vague, undecided coloring. There was nothing undecided, however, about her reply to Pat's recital.
"That's just like parents, trying to deprive us of our rights! Last year several sororities were rushing Belle and me. Father said we had better forget such nonsense, that he couldn't afford to have us join. Ever since John brought his family home to live after losing his job, father has been crying 'wolf' continuously. We joined the Gammas, anyway. Imagine not belonging to a sorority!"
Pat laughed, "Viola refused several bids. She's so serious, she just wants to study."
A car honked furiously, and pulled over to the side of the quiet, poplar-shaded street. Recognizing some of their admirers, the two girls scrambled in. It was much later when they returned home, with barely enough time to bathe and dress for the dance.
After the hustle and confusion of registration and enrollment for the fall quarter at the University were over, and as days passed into weeks, students gradually swung into the routine of trying to keep up with their lessons and assignments. Pat won much admiration and many new friends around the campus. The evenings she usually spent gracing the ballroom at the Union Building or some fraternity or house party.
As she was exempt from English 1, she registered for a class of Appreciation of English Literature, without the necessary prerequisites. By taking a seat at the front of the room and appearing very fascinated in the professor and his lectures, she managed to retain a place and soon had him rating her as an "A" student.
Richard Elliott, the dark haired, well dressed young man beside her, hoped that some time she would become less absorbed in the lesson and thus enable him to make her acquaintance. When the closing period bell rang, as Pat arose, several papers fell from her notebook. Quickly, Dick recovered them. Pat thanked him. How handsome he was! As she replaced them, he noticed their contents.
"You certainly are ambitious to type all that play we're studying."
"No," Pat replied, ironically, "I couldn't find a second hand book, and as my parents are too stupid to allow me a miserly six dollars for a new textbook?what else could I do?"
"I see," Dick said slowly, "have you ever earned any money, Miss Dean?"
"Certainly not."
"Last summer I worked two whole days in a blazing sun for a mere six dollars."
"Oh?"
Dick wanted to shake her. "Your parents probably have to feed and clothe several other members in your family. Many people may go hungry this winter for the lack of a measly six dollars."
Pat was furious. "I don't care to discuss the matter further. What affair is it of yours, anyway?"
"O?Only?." Dick could not finish. Perhaps he had been too hasty in his judgment. He really had been presumptuous.
"I'm sorry if I've offended you," he apologized, flushing, "I should like to share my book with you, in class. You could take it afterwards to prepare the assignment and then return it to me."
Then Pat flushed, "I'm sorry, too. Thank you. But I couldn't let you do that."
"Why not?" Her inconsistency was amazing. How could she demand so much from her parents, yet be so unwilling to be under obligations to others?
"Let's make a bargain. I often have more assignments to type and turn in than I have time available. You do excellent typing. You help me with some of that typing in return for the use of the book."
Pat consented then. They were frequently together after that. Dick was Senior Class President and belonged to both a large national engineering fraternity and a prominent social fraternity. His father was Dean of the English Department. Thus Dick was in great demand but he always made plans that included Pat. He often tried to analyze why she intrigued him so much. Although she was highly intelligent and efficient, extremely attractive to her friends of both sexes, it was hard for Dick to reconcile these splendid attributes with her decided selfishness and carelessness toward her parents. If only her heart could be penetrated with some realization of their great responsibility!
One noon, near the Christmas holiday season, Ruth failed to meet Pat at luncheon. After classes, Pat hurried through the dreary cold to Ruth's home, filled with an ever increasing dread. A tear swollen, grief stricken Ruth answered the door. Enjoining silence, she led Pat to her room, past her mother's tightly closed door. Then she fell on the bed, crying hysterically.
"Ruth! What has happened?" Pat choked with fright.
Ruth gasped, "It's father! ?oh?oh?!"
"An accident? Was he hurt or killed? Oh Ruth, please tell me!"
"It's worse than that! Mother collapsed when she heard. The doctor is still with her. But poor dad, sitting in the rocking chair, with those vacant staring eyes and that awful resignation, talking to himself!"
"Whatever did he do?"
"His company found a shortage of several thousand dollars in his books and he confessed taking it, intending to replace" it some time. Now it means prison for him, the finest, kindest man that lives!" "At first I hated dad. Now I know we are all guilty, Belle, John and his wife, mother and I! We demanded everything, more than he had. He was desperate to meet our greed. We took no heed of his pleas, sacrificed his ideals, his honor, his lifetime of striving, all he held sacred! For what? Money?money for clothes, shows, an education he couldn't afford, sororities, good times! A miserable exchange! We drove him too far. Oh, why couldn't we have realized before it was too late?" Pat was stunned, "How sorry I am, Ruth!" "I don't want your sympathy, Pat. He's A NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION 15 I don't deserve any." She pointed an accusing finger, "You're as bad as we are! Be thankful it wasn't your father. You've been just as selfish! Now go away! I can't bear the sight of another selfish person!" Pat arose, dazed. "Can't I do anything to help?" "No one can do anything now. It's too late, too late, I tell you!" Ruth's voice rose to a shrill scream, "Go away! I hate you, I despise you!" AT stumbled home, her mind whirling. She sat in her room, terror wracked, staring out at the large fluffy snowflakes and the blurry expanse of white covered lawns and garages. Her mother called anxiously, "Pat! Why are you in the dark?" "Mother," she sobbed, strangling with emotion, "please don't ask me any questions! Just leave me alone." Pat was facing the greatest crisis of her life. Henry Lyons should 'have been firmer against his family's demands, resisting that ruinous impulse. How many of his critics, however, would have been able to stand against the combined forces of temptation and overwhelming despair? Despite any excuse, though, he had committed an ineradicable wrong. For the first time Pat remorsefully recalled the numerous occasions of her selfishness and thoughtless behavior toward her parents. She, too, had demanded everything. This tragedy might easily have happened to her own father. What could she have done, had she seen him, crushed and broken, dragged off to 'prison, knowing the responsibility had been hers? A resolution began forming in her heart that would rebuild her entire future relationship with her family. Dick arrived. Pat, in her newly found courage and resolve, told the group of the Lyon's disaster. Dick, astonished at the change in Pat, listened thoughtfully. "It must have hurt to have Ruth reject your friendship now, when they will need every friend they have. Perhaps you can help, anyway. Father is one of the largest stockholders in that company. If you told him that story, the same way you told it to us, he might be moved to use his influence with other stockholders. I'll take you to see him, immediately." In her warm fur coat and snug little hat, Pat was soon pleading with Dean Elliott in her friend's behalf. NEW YEAR'S DAY arrived, full of cheer and festivity. Dick was invited for dinner, which Pat helped to prepare. After the juicy, luscious turkey, the tasty dressing, steaming vegetables and delicious plum pudding had been consumed, the family gathered in the living room. Pat, feeling the moment propitious, addressed her parents. "Dad and mother, may I tell you about the New Year's Resolution I have made? In the past, I've been so busy thinking about my own wants, I forgot how dear you both were, and how much I owe you. I have resolved that from this day I will do everything possible to honor and assist you and show my appreciation?."' Her voice broke, then she continued, "First, I will not let you pay any more college expenses for me. With the beginning of the winter quarter I shall discontinue school. Maybe I can find some work and help out with the family expenses. Failing that, 1 can economize on my clothes, stay home, and share part of the work and responsibility." Mrs. Dean enfolded Pat in her  arms. ''We shall long remember this day for having opened your heart. But you won't need to sacrifice your school, we've managed thus far and?." "No, mother," Pat's father interrupted, his deep eyes suspiciously wet, 'Patricia has at last faced reality and knows that the individual's only true rights are those that are earned. It is but fair to leave the decision as she has made it. We thank you, Patricia." THE afternoon darkened into evening. The others went out to make several calls, leaving Dick and Pat alone. Dick presented her with a lavishly decorated box, which she opened hesitantly. She discovered a leather bound copy of the literary gems they had studied together, that she had longed for. "Thank you, Dick," she said humbly, thrilled to the core. "Wait until you've heard my good news. Father has persuaded the company not to prosecute Mr. Lyons on condition that he repay them as soon as he can. Father was so impressed with you he told several professors about you. One of them is writing a book. When he learned of the fine typing you had done for me, he asked if you would do several hours work a day on his book. You would earn enough to pay your winter quarter's expenses, and your parents would not feel you had gone back on your word." Pat was ecstatically happy. Dick drew her close. " I always knew you would find your heart, Pat," he murmured. "It's so lovely, won't you share some of it with me?" He unclasped a pin from his vest and fastened it upon her dress, his arm encircling her. She glanced lovingly down at the pearl-studded Greek letters, then wondrously up into his eyes. Outside, the snow lay crisp and glistening, long pointed icicles hung from the eaves. Inside, the windows were decorated with their holiday wreaths. The twinkling, multi-colored Christmas tree lights and the flickering firelight cast a warm hospitable glow among the deepening shadows in the room.