Notes from the Field Lyman Stake: THE accompanying picture is taken of the Superior Ward Relief Society, Lyman Stake. This little ward is on the border of the Western States Mission, and has a membership of only 160 people, but from this there is an average of more we think it offers many excellent constructive suggestions: "The Magazine representatives of the wards in Ensign Stake meet regularly at the monthly union meeting. Under the direction of Sister Rose Neeley, the stake representative, regular class work: is conducted. SUPERIOR WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, LYMAN STAKE than 20 women at each Relief Society meeting. The members are intensely interested in the work of the Relief Society, and find great encouragement and inspiration in the excellent educational program which is offered through the columns of the Relief Society Magazine. Ensign Stake: HERE have been so many excellent reports come in of the activities of the Magazine Agents in all our stakes and wards that it would take many issues of the Magazine to give all the fine suggestions which have been offered. The following comes from the Ensign Stake, and This begins with the roll call to which each person responds with a sentiment taken from the Magazine. The ward representatives give their reports listing new subscribers, renewals, etc., and present problems relating to solicitation as may have arisen. Once during the season each representative is given time to present something from the Magazine ?poems, stories, home-making hints, etc..?that has specially appealed to her. Time is allotted for discussion of points that have furnished spiritual uplift and help outside of the fine lesson work outlined. Many suggestions are offered for the Magazine campaign?little banks or containers wherein the members may put away small amounts until the NOTES FROM THE FIELD subscription fee is secured, dividing wards into districts for house-to-house visiting, etc. Each ward, however, is permitted to carry out the plan which seems best suited to its condition. Tahitian Mission: Space for Picture THE following delightful report comes from Sister Murial R. Mallory, President of the Tahitian Mission Relief Society: "I read with deep interest the "Notes from the Field, and thought the sisters in other parts of the world may be interested in what we are doing in far off Tahiti. I say-'far off' because I believe this has the distinction of being the most isolated mission in the world. We only have one mail boat a month to our main island, which is Tahiti. On account of the strikes both in America and Australia, we had no regular service' from April 24 until July 19. There is no regular service on the other islands, which number some fifty or more, and are scattered from twen43 ty-five to seven and eight hundred miles apart. Travel between these islands is done on small trading schooners. We have sixteen branches each with a Relief Society organization presided over by a native presidency. These sisters are very diligent and strive to do the work to the best of their ability. It is impossible to carry on the work just as outlined in the Magazine, as the people here have had very little chance for education, the older members and a good share of the younger ones as well, never having been to school. There are French schools now on Tahiti and some few of the other islands, and the people are glad of the chance to send their children. There is very little literature printed in the native language, as what there is is printed by the different churches. Our work is outlined under the direction of the Mission President to meet our particular needs. I recently accompanied my husband on a tour of the Lower Tuamotu Islands, the trip was made on a small ship, which  RELIEF SOCIETY lacked most of the comforts of modern-day travel. We visited eight islands and were very pleased to find the work going ahead so well. When we arrived at Takaroa, one of our largest branches, we found the people had prepared a big 'Tamaaraa', or native feast, and celebration in our honor, which was participated in by every member on the Island regardless of religious creed. We spent five weeks there, and were the only white people on the island. It would be impossible, in this short article, to tell of the acts of kindness shown us. There is no food at all raised on these low coral islands, except cocoanuts, and rain caught in barrels furnishes the water supply. Despite the lack of luxuries we enjoyed ourselves very much. The sisters there seemed very much interested in their work and all are striving diligently to live the Gospel as they understand it." Timpanogos Stake: HE following interesting report comes from the Timpanogos Stake. The sixth anniversary of the organization of the stake came on Sunday, July 15, 1934. At this time the stake had 735 L. D. S. Families, and the Relief Society membership was 345. On Tuesday, July 17, a most extensive and beautiful exhibition of work done by the women of the Relief Society of this stake was held in the Second Ward Chapel at Pleasant Grove. It represented the work of the past two years, and was held in connection with an anniversary meeting. The work leaders of the stake cooperated with the officers and gathered material for the exhibition. More than one thousand articles were collected. These represented almost every kind of handwork done by the sisters. The entire basement of the Church was used, but even this did not give space enough to show' fully all the articles. There were any number of beautiful quilts, bed-spreads, rugs, fine needlework, articles of clothing that had been remodeled, dyed or cleaned, the "self-help" clothing for small children, a complete layette for baby, etc. This phase of the work was certainly a credit to any organization. There was also a nutrition department where charts of foods were displayed. Distinct from the needlework was the art department where things of purely an ornamental nature formed an interesting part. One room contained work done by women past 70 years of age. It has been the aim of this stake to make things that will be of use, and made at as little expense as possible. Back of the movement has been the beautification of the homes and pleasure to the members in developing new ideas, and cultivating the social hour where women of kindred ideals may meet and discuss their problems. In the meeting which was held at one o'clock, there were representatives from the General Presidency and General Board of Relief Society. The program consisted of talks from the visiting sisters and members of the original stake (Alpine). Fine music was a feature of the meeting, after which delicious refreshments were served to more than four hundred people. German-Austrian Mission: ANOTHER indication of the wide extent of appeal that the women of the world find in Relief Society, is in evidence in the following which comes from the German-Austrian Mission. Sister Elizabeth H. Welker sent us the delightful picture of the Singing Mothers of Stettin, Germany, with the following brief account of what is: going on in that Mission: "We held conferences in more than half of our Mission, while NOTES BROM. THE 45 SINGING MOTHERS OF STETTEN, GERMANY the Relief Society sisters are not meeting in these conferences, but will hold their meetings in the Spring, still they have furnished the singing for the afternoon sessions. I have been delighted with the groups of Singing Mothers in this Mission. They memorize the words of all their songs and their singing is much above the average chorus group. The German people all understand and love good music, and the Singing Mothers are no exception. I am sure you would be pleased to hear them and would be proud of them, too. They compare very favorably with any group I have heard at home, though, of course, the number in any chorus is not so great. We suggested to them that they work on a Relief Society Song, one that might be used for the, Mission at any rate. They seemed pleased with the idea, and said: 'We would like a song of our own.' I hope they will be able to develop something real good.