He said, "Such is my life, drifting as the restless sands and when the sun kisses the highest peaks and sinks to rest, so I, too, lie down to sleep and dream. When the sun rises again, and starts on its eternal round, I rise from my bed of sand and again am drifting, pitching my tent when the sun goes down, drifting, watching, waiting, for what? Alas! Who knows? Who can read the destiny of man when he knoweth it not himself. Like Abraham of old, the spark of faith has been handed down from generation to generation for hundreds of years and still lives and glows and burns in my heart. I am searching and never finding peace, nor rest, nor joy." His camel, his only companion, standing near the tent, sottly mooed. Bon Abu, answering said, 'Lie down and rest and sleep, for the night is nigh and tomorrow cometh as all other days have come." To himself he said, "Will it go as all other days have gone? Yet will I put my trust in Abraham's God this night and trust and wait."' He, looked up into the blue vault above dotted with its bright twinkling stars, then entered his tent and closed it. He arose from his slumber just as the coming of day smiled on departing night. Parting the door of his tent he stood with hands shading his eager, expectant eyes, as if striving to pierce farther and farther the dim purple distance of the eastern horizon, and as the sun sent its first greetings heavenward, the mist melted away, he stood transfixed, for lo, three tiny specks appeared and as they nearer and nearer came, it seemed as if the sun itself had fled from the heavens and was coming to greet him. He recognized at last. That they were camels clothed with all the glitter of gold and silver tinsel with which the wealthier class were wont to deck them. Their riders were men of noble mien and as they approached, Bon Abu, thinking they were kings from some foreign lands, bowed himself to the earth. Then rising, he said reverently, "Whom art thou? Whence cometh thou and whither dost thou go?" They answered, "We are men from the far east. We go to Jerusalem, for unto us is born a Savior. See, we are taking him gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh. Hast thou not seen his star in the east?' I have not seen His star, neither have I gold nor precious gifts, but all I have is His. I will follow thee." And he bowed himself to the earth once more and the men from the East passed on. BON ABU 37 HASTILY he seized his water bottle and a small cake of unleavened bread, mounted his camel and quickly followed. As the mid-day drew near he bethought himself that neither he nor his camel had tasted food or drink since the evening of the day before. In his eager haste he had forgotten but his parched lips and the hunger cry of his camel reminded him that nature must be provided for. | Dismounting he loosed his camel to browse upon the scant shrubs the desert provided and sat down to partake of his scanty meal. Before aught had passed his lips he saw a woman approaching and as she drew near unto him she cried out, "Master, give me food or I perish," and she fell to the earth before him. Ed with pity, he said, "Woman, arise and eat,' and he gave her of his unleavened bread, and a part of the water from the bottle he, in his haste, had forgotten to fill. Then said, "Woman, whom art thou and what bringeth thee hither." She said, "Master, lama widow. I am going to my kindred. Yesternight my camel strayed and was lost. I am alone. Oh! Master, have pity and the blessings of the gods I worship shall be thine." Bon Abu looked into the distance for the men from the East who were fast disappearing, then brought his camel, made it kneel, placed the woman upon it and said, "Go thy way in peace and may thy gods protect thee. I have none but Abraham's God and Him I knoweth not." She kissed his hand and a tear fell upon it and crystallized and sparkled in the sun light. The camel arose and was gone. ON ABU looked at his hand and said, "The widow's tear, I will cherish it." He looked at his small piece of bread and the little water Bon Abu's left in his bottle and said, "I must not eat nor drink for the hour may come when my needs will be greater than now." Being lithe of limb, he sped on and on till darkness came. Long, long before the men from the East had been lost to his vision, and the faintly discernible footprints of the camels were his only guide. Tired and weary he lay down to rest for the night between two sand dunes to protect him from the chilly night winds. With the first morning rays he arose, stretched his tired and aching limbs. The ever shifting sands had obliterated the last foot prints of the camels but like Abraham of old, he resolutely turned his face eastward and went blindly on, his faith that he should find that which he sought still planted in his soul. He ran with the fleetness of the camel, caring neither for food nor drink, with his eyes fixed on the far distant hills he pressed on and on and nearer and nearer the hills seemed to approach. Noon day once more and once more he hears the cry for human aid. This time a child. 'Master, master, come quickly for my mother hath fallen and dieth." Bon Abu hastened with the child to its mother, and found her lying unconscious with a cruel wound across her head. He carried her into her little mud house, laid her on the bed and tenderly bound up the wound with snow white linen the child brought him, moistened her lips with the few remaining drops of water from his bottle and slowly restored her to consciousness. She looked at him wonderingly and said, "Thou art a stranger, rest thee awhile, my son will soon return from the City of David with food and drink. I know thou art hungry and thirsty. See, thy bottle is empty and thou hast 38 no food. Tarry awhile until he cometh for we have neither bread nor water this day." The child murmured and Bon Abu bethought himself of his morsel of bread and gave it to her and she eagerly ate it. "Woman, I cannot tarry. I have neither tasted food nor drink these two days but I must away. How far is it to the City of David?" "If thou hasteneth thou canst reach it before the night cometh on. God be gracious unto thee as thou hast been merciful and kind unto me." Bon Abu replied, "Peace be unto thee."' And as he turned to depart the child caught his hand and a tear drop fell upon it and crystallized but it did not sparkle for it was a pearl. He looked at his hand and said, '"The orphan's tear, I will treasure it also." Then he sped onward toward the City of David. As he drew near he saw the three men from the East approaching, and he cried out, "Oh! Ye men of the East, didst thou see the Star again? And hast thou found the Savior whom ye seek?" They answered, "Yea, we have found Him and He sleepeth upon His mother's breast in yonder cave in a manger. Go find Him quickly for the night falleth and God be with thee." Abu put new energy in his tired and trembling limbs and reached the gate, then fell exhausted. He felt a gentle touch and raised his head and lo! An angel stood beside him. Bon. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The, angel spoke, "Bon Abu, arise!" And he arose and stood beside him. Again the angel spoke, "What seeketh thou?" Bon Abu answered, "I seek my Savior whose star in the East proclaimed His birth." "And hast thou seen His star?" "No lord, I have not seen, yet I believe.' And straightway the star shone over the place where the young child lay. The angel spoke once more, "The wise men from the East brought him gold and frankinecense and myrrh, hast thou aught to give?" "Nothing lord, but my soul and my service and the widow's and orphan's tears." And he placed his hand in his bosom and drew them forth. The angel looked and smiled and straightway a mist arose from his hand, heavenward, and the jewels were as naught. The angel said, "Bon Abu, thy faith and thy service hath redeemed thee, follow me." And he led him to the mouth of the cave and into the manger where the young babe lay. The child smiled and the glory of God shone around it. Bon Abu fell upon his face and cried aloud. "I have found that which I sought. I know now that my Redeemer liveth for I have seen His face, and beheld His glory, and rest and peace and joy are mine, and love, faith, charity and service T will freely give, He arose, left the cave and went out into the city to seek for food and shelter. Happy Mothers (Concluded from page 29) the children, making them a party to the grown-up's bickerings. In the world where the wise use of leisure is becoming a serious problem, mothers need to aid their youngsters in learning how to play fairly with any class of children who are honorable. If mothers will make the most of this opportunity to encourage their children in the wise selection and in the careful preservation of friendships, they will find that the next generation will be much nearer the ideal of world peace toward which all mothers are looking forward eagerly.