KeepSakes for the Treasure Chest Of life By Lella Marler Hoggan "May you have joy enough to start The New Year with a singing heart, And granted hopes, and blessings true To make joy last the whole year through." ?Author unknown FROM year to year you are stowing away keep-sakes in the treasure-chest of life. It is a magic chest for it grows with the years. Are you choosing wisely what shall go into this precious receptacle? Why burden yourselves with a load of fears, and hates, and worries? You may as well select little priceless treasures, worth-while gifts, magic memories, that will brighten your peaceful hours when the shadows lengthen: lovely experiences and golden deeds, that will comfort you at the close of the day: spiritual blessings, that will fortify you against all fear, when you tread the sunny slope that leads into the valley of happy rewards. You do not want to be forever looking backward with regret and longing on the things you meant to achieve. When you reach the end of the sun-lit trail and prepare to evaluate the contents of your chest you do not want to find a clutter of broken promises, unfinished tasks, shattered plans, and lost dreams. If you would avoid these disappointments, then do not embark on the journey of life in a haphazard manner, without charting your time or effort, or knowing to what port you are bound. As you come to the afternoon of life, you will find fewer tasks and greater leisure, shorter experiences and longer memories. Will those memories be sweet and wholesome? Will they bring peace and comfort to your heart? There are memories sweet, And memories sad, Memories tender, And memories glad. All stowed away for a distant day When the shadows lengthen along life's way. As Joseph of old, garnered during the years of plenty for the lean years that were to follow: so may you in the fulness of life, gather treasures for the autumnal days that will come after. The bee does not find his honey potted and waiting for him. He  has to collect it drop by drop, from a thousand flowers. You, too, May search out the fragrant sweetness of life and take it into your possession, Not to be hidden away in a dark attic to gather dust and cob-webs; but to be guarded in the treasure-chest of life, and to be daily used and enlarged and glorified. And make sure that your Precious store is secured from all intrusion by the sacred key of prayer. Anna R. Brown in her delightful little book, "What Is Worth While," says, "With time we may purchase every lovely thing life has. God can do great things with our lives if we but give them to him in sincerity. He can make them useful, uplifting, heroic."; Choose wisely, then, and well, the store that is to be put by for the twilight of life. What will render unto you the richest values? What will bring you the most permanent satisfactions? Your little chests are waiting For the coming happy year, To be packed with priceless treasure. Let only glad sweet memories, And deeds of golden worth, Fill up the precious measure.