CRAWFORD Lesson Preview, 1934-1935 (Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1934 By Dr. Frederick J. Pack, University of Utah AM particularly well pleased with the opportunity of talking with you. It is a well known fact that many young men and young women who attend college find difficulty in making their religion and their scientific discoveries agree. I have been at the University for more than twenty-five years, and during that period something like ten thousand of your sons and daughters have passed through my hands. For some reason that I do not attempt to explain, large numbers of your children who encounter what they regard as incompatibility between science and religion, find their way to my office. Now I wish to say to you?you who are in a large measure responsible for the teaching of our young men and our young women?that the one outstanding factor that causes "Mormon" boys and girls to doubt their religion in connection with scientific training, 1 that they do not understand "Mormonism." I desire to make this point very clear. As recently as a week ago a returned missionary came to me and wanted to know how it is possible to harmonize certain doctrines of "Mormonism" with those of science. Almost without exception I have found that troubles such as those experienced by this young man may be traced to erroneous teachings, received either at home or in the auxiliary organizations. Every teacher of the Gospel should have a testimony of the truth of "Mormonism." Not all things, however, that are sometimes taught under the guise of "Mormonism" are true. My own mother?and I speak of her with the greatest of deference?was a convert from the Church of England. I am fully satisfied that she taught me a lot of the doctrines of the Episcopal Church thinking that they were "Mormonism," and until this day I have not rid myself of some of these erroneous ideas. Sometimes teachers take too many things for granted, and accordingly teach them in a lazy sort of way as if they were true. There are many things in "Mormonism" that we know to be true, and there are many private interpretations that are not true, and which often have a disturbing effect upon the minds of young people. For example, it is widely taught by teachers in ""Mormon" organizations that the earth was created some six thousand years ago in six days of twenty-four hours each. This notion dates from the period of the Reformation. The time-chronology which appears in many Bibles, and often 'accepted as authoritative, was adopted by the compilers of the King James translation without the consent or knowledge of the author. This particular chronology was devised by a Bishop of the Episcopal Church, and is no more a part of the Bible than the cover of the Bible. My appeal to you people is merely this, "Mormonism" is true. Do not contaminate it with a lot of private interpretations that will necessarily throw young men and young women into confusion. When once a doctrine is taught and accepted as LESSON PREVIEW 21 true, the individual comes to think of it as part of his religion. Then when he discovers that the doctrine is untrue, he is naturally led to believe that his religion is likewise untrue. A large percentage of young men and young women who have thought it necessary to separate themselves from the Church have done so because of erroneous conceptions which they thought were "Mormonism." I plead with you teachers, therefore, to teach the truths of ""Mormonism," and to leave out of consideration private interpretations. "Mormonism" is true, and when properly understood it can be tested in the most intimate manner, always, of course, to its advantage. YOUR work for the coming year deals with certain phases of' the revelations that appear in the Doctrine and Covenants. If I were you I would not question the statements made in this book, for they are true. They come from the Lord; they are our safety. And our guidance. For that reason Latter-day Saint teachers have an advantage over all other teachers in the world. You are teaching plain, simple, unadulterated truth, revealed directly from God. As heretofore, you will have nine lessons for the year, one each month. The subjects of these nine lessons are as follows: 1. Christ's Coming and the Millennium. 2. Allegiance to the Church. 3. The Power of Prayer. 4. Jesus, Creator and Overseer of the Earth. 5. The Agency of Man. 6. Gems of Truth. 7. Gems of Truth. 8. The Kirtland Temple. 9. Zion's Camp. Each of these lessons is full of material.