Presidency and General Board of Relief Society. The program consisted of talks from the visiting sisters and members of the original stake (Alpine). Fine music was a feature of the meeting, after which delicious refreshments were served to more than four hundred people. German-Austrian Mission: ANOTHER indication of the wide extent of appeal that the women of the world find in Relief Society, is in evidence in the following which comes from the German-Austrian Mission. Sister Elizabeth H. Welker sent us the delightful picture of the Singing Mothers of Stettin, Germany, with the following brief account of what is: going on in that Mission: "We held conferences in more than half of our Mission, while NOTES BROM. THE 45 SINGING MOTHERS OF STETTEN, GERMANY the Relief Society sisters are not meeting in these conferences, but will hold their meetings in the Spring, still they have furnished the singing for the afternoon sessions. I have been delighted with the groups of Singing Mothers in this Mission. They memorize the words of all their songs and their singing is much above the average chorus group. The German people all understand and love good music, and the Singing Mothers are no exception. I am sure you would be pleased to hear them and would be proud of them, too. They compare very favorably with any group I have heard at home, though, of course, the number in any chorus is not so great. We suggested to them that they work on a Relief Society Song, one that might be used for the, Mission at any rate. They seemed pleased with the idea, and said: 'We would like a song of our own.' I hope they will be able to develop something real good. Reports on Magazine Drive In making their reports, most of the Stake Magazine agents are delighted with the efficient way in which the Magazine Campaign has been carried on. The use of the penny boxes has been very extensive and most Stakes feel that it has helped them very materially in getting large subscription lists. A house to hou