Unto the Least of These By Ida R. Stage setting?three comfortable chairs, a small table with gaily colored cloth; artificial flowers in vase on stand, etc.; arranged so that characters may be seen on back of stage when back curtain is raised during course of play. Characters?Edith, Billy, Janet, Dorothy, and Theda. Edith sits reading while two little children sit playing at her feet? JANET (looking up into her face): Mother, is today Relief Society? Epitu: Not today, Janet, why? JANET: Oh, I wish it was. We have the most fun when we go. I wish they had it oftener. I just love that lady that takes care of us. She tells us the most pretty stories and we build houses in the sand, too. Bitty: Say, Janet, wasn't that fun when she told us about the Indians? And didn't that little girl get scared when that big old Indian chief, all painted up, took hold of her hand and said, "Come, me big Indian chief. Be Papoose." I wouldn't have been afraid, no siree! But of course she was just a girl, and girls are fraidie cats. J wish I was an Indian. Wouldn't I have fun? Epiru: I guess we all have fun at Relief Society, don't we, children? I get just about as anxious as you do for it to come. (knock interrupts conversation) Edith: Billy, you go and answer the door for mother, will you? BILLY (opening door): Come in, Mrs. Dean and Mrs. Brown. (mother rises to go and greet them) EpitH: Well, if it isn't Dorothy and Theda! I'm so glad you've come. Here, Dorothy, take this chair, and Theda, you sit there.; Dorothy: Say, Edith, where do you keep yourself? We don't see you Alldredge half as often as we used to. You didn't even come to the bridge party Tuesday afternoon. Gee! But we missed you. You've always been so keen for bridge. Were you sick? Edith (laughing): Oh, no, Dorothy, I wasn't sick, but you see it interferred with Relief Society meeting and I would have missed more by not attending that and in addition to the pleasure we get there is always something worth while. THEDA: You mean to tell me that you missed Grace's party to go to Relief Society meeting? Can you beat that, Dorothy? Edieth: Perhaps you don't understand just what we do at Relief Society meeting, girls. Dorothy: Perhaps not, Edith, but it's just for old grandmothers who come home and tell their grandchildren how to raise their babies on catnip tea, sugar plums, and so on. It certainly isn't for young modern mothers like you. What do you care about the making of quilts that nobody will use, the training of children grandmother's way and so on. There's time enough for those old fogie ideas when you can't do anything else. (Dorothy sees gaily colored cloth on stand) Dorothy: Oh, isn't that beautiful! (picks up corner of cloth and examines it) That's something new. Where did you pick it up? And that vase! Isn't it artistic? I wish I had the taste you have. Edith: They are pretty, aren't they? That's what I learned to do at Relief Society. And that isn't half of it, (goes into other room and IF YE DO IT UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE ol gets quilt and holds up for inspection) How do you like this? Girls (in chorus): Edith! Where did you get that? It's gorgeous! Where did you get such an exquisite pattern? Edith (laughing): In the same place and from those same old fogies that you were telling us about, only they're not all grandmothers. Our art instructor is as young as I am and just as modern as either of you. You both remember Helen? THEDA: Helen Summers'? She was a wonder in high school and they say she specialized: in college on the same subject and was going to make it her career until Jack came along and captured her. I'd like to study art from her. Edith: Then why don't you go with me? Dorothy: But, what would we do with our children? Edith: What did you do with them during the bridge party? THEDA: We hired them taken care of, but we couldn't afford to do that for a meeting. I wonder if she would give private lessons? Edith: And pay for lessons you could just as well have free? Now listen, girls: The babies are taken care of by a lady who is wonderful with children. She needs the money as she has seven children of her own and she is the only one to support them. Her husband is dead so the bishop hires her, and two things are done at once. I'd trust any child with her. Mine love to go and can hardly wait for the day to come. We were just talking about it when you came in. They were wishing meeting came every day.; THEDA: How often do they have lessons like that, Edith? Evita: That comes once a month but the other lessons are equally as interesting. If you want me to tell you the names of some of the officers I will, and maybe you will be more interested. There's Mrs. Jensen, our president. You both remember her. She used to teach us when we were in the eighth grade in school. Don't you remember how we used to love to take flowers to her? Dorothy: I?ll say I remember her! She was the best teacher we ever had. She could wrap me around her little finger and she enjoyed teaching us, too. She was only about eighteen then. I wonder if she is as attractive now as she was then. Epitu: She surely is and makes a splendid leader. Then as pianist there is Jane Worth. Ruth Fields is the secretary and Velma Brown the chorister. You used to go to school with every one of them and you'd feel right at home. The first Tuesday (we) I say we because I am a visiting teacher? THEDA: You a visiting teacher? Do you mean to tell me that you go around and pry into other peoples business by seeing if they keep the lint from under their beds, the dishes clean, and the children properly clothed; and if they are in good standing in the church? Do you find out whether Mr. And Mrs. So and so smoke, and why they don't pay their tithing? Why, Edith, I'm ashamed of you. (they all laugh) You don't need to come snooping around me or I'll turn the hose on you. Edith: You've got this visiting teaching all wrong. We don't go to find fault but just to carry a message of cheer. I love every person in my district. We keep in touch with them and let them know that they are not forgotten. We don't go and ask about family affairs but we Carry a suggestion or two to them that will put them to thinking and maybe lift a little of their burden of care. (For instance) one of our subjects a while back was, "Blessed  are they that mourn for they shall be comforted." We don't preach but talk it over together. I get more benefit than anyone else. I've learned that I can't expect everything to be pleasant, or I wouldn't develop properly. I couldn't broaden. Sorrow makes us understand others who suffer and then one knows better how to help them. The greatest joy comes from overcoming difficulties. It is sorrow which builds up our faith if we take it in the right way. Sister Jorgensen is an inspiration to me. You know how sad her life has been. She lost her only daughter a few weeks ago, but when we knocked she met us with her usual smile. Now she has lost her husband and four of her grown children but she is the bravest old soul I ever saw in my life. I just dreaded to call on her, but felt it wouldn't do to pass her by and I am so glad that I didn't. She looks on the bright side and says: "The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away." That's faith for you, isn't it? I?d be ashamed if I complained after such an example as that. But I forgot, I was telling you what we study. The first Tuesday is theology and testimony meeting. Last winter the Doctrine and Covenants was our guide. I am telling you what it was last year as this winter's lessons are a continuation of the same subject. Hundred and thirty-six revelations given for the guidance of the church. The first revelation contains the words of the angel Moroni, spoken to Joseph Smith on the night of September 1st, 1821. (Back curtain rises to music "The Seer, The Seer,' showing angel Moroni with uplifted hand and Joseph kneeling as if in prayer). ANGEL Moroni: Behold, I will reveal unto you the priesthood by There are one the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And He shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers and the hearts of the children shall turn to the fathers. If it were not so the whole earth would be wasted at His coming. (Curtain falls). EDITH: Later messages and commandments were given that tell us just how to live and what is to happen in the future. For instance there was a vision manifest to Joseph Smith the Seer, and Oliver Cowdery, in the Kirtland temple April 3rd, 1836. (Curtain rises on Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery). Joseph Smith: After this vision closed another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us and said, "Behold, the time has fully come which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he, Elijah, should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. Therefore the keys of this dispensation are in your hands and this ye may know, that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near even at the door. (Curtain). EDITH: There is one more that is given to the prophet which impresses me very much. It seems to me that one could not help believing every word of it. It thrills me and yet it makes me tremble to think of what is in the future for us. (Curtain rises showing Joseph Smith). Joseph Smith: Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free. IF YE DO TT UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE 33 Entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord come. For not many days hence and the earth shall reel and tremble to and fro as a drunken man and the sun shall hide His face and shall refuse to give light. And the moon shall be bathed in blood, and the stars shall become exceeding angry and shall cast themselves down as a fig leaf falleth from a fig tree. And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people. For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes that shall cause groanings in the midst of her and men shall fall upon the ground and not be able to stand. And also cometh the testimony of thunderings and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds. And all things shall be in commotion and surely men's hearts shall fail them for fear shall come upon all people. An angel shall fly through the midst of heaven crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying, "Prepare ye, Prepare ye, oh inhabitants of the earth for the judgments of our God is come. Behold and lo, the bridegroom cometh. Go ye out to meet Him." And immediately there shall appear a great sign in heaven and all people shall see it together. And there shall another angel sound the trump. Then there shall be silence in heaven for the space of half an hour and immediately after shall the curtain of heaven be unfolded as a scroll is unfolded after it is rolled up and the face of the Lord shall be unveiled and the saints that are upon the earth that are alive shall be quickened and shall be caught up to meet Him. And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth, for their graves shall be opened, and they also shall be caught up to meet Him, in the midst of the pillar of heaven. And after this another trump shall sound, and another trump shall sound which is the fifth trump. And this shall be the sound of His trump, saying to all people, both in heaven and in the earth, and that are under the earth, for everyone shall hear it, and every knee shall bow and every tongue confess while they hear the sound of the trump saying, "Fear God and give glory to Him who sitteth upon the throne, for ever and ever, for the hour of his judgment is come. (Curtain slowly falls). Dorothy: Say, that frightens me. Doesn't it you? I never think about those things but when you know of all that is happening now it seems to me that that time is not so very far off. I'd almost forgotten what the Doctrine and Covenants was. But come, Edith, what else do you study? Edith: Well, girls, that was last year's work. This year's theology takes up where last year's closes and the first lesson is Christ's coming and the Millennium. The exact time of His coming no man knoweth, not even the angels of heaven, but we are told of the signs to expect preceding His arrival. There shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars, and upon the earth distress of nations, and men's hearts shall fail them, for the powers of heaven shall shake them. Immediately prior to the coming of Christ, all things shall be in commotion and fear shall come upon the people. The time is at our very doors. All you have to do is to glance at the papers and see the terrible unrest and know that the hour is near at hand. And then following this lesson we are taught how to live in order to be prepared for the great and glorious day. One lesson is, "Allegiance to the  Church," and another "The Power of Prayer," and the concluding one is the law of tithing. If one ever needed to pray to keep free from temptation it is now, and the church needs loyal followers more than it ever did. THEDA: It almost makes me feel creepy but just the same I believe it is true, every word of it. I wish I were better prepared to live in that day than I am. But come, Edith, what else have you for us? Edith: Literature comes next. We study books of fiction, history, poetry, etc. The general officers realize the value of good books and so they help suggest the proper ones to read. This is next in importance to the kind of company one keeps. One of the books of fiction for this year is "Silas Marner," written by George Eliott. Another is the "Scarlet Letter,' by Hawthorne. Both books are literary gems, portraying characters true to life of that early day. Then we have the books of poetry and fiction. We all love to read them. THEDA: Your pictures have been so vivid, Edith, that I think I'll go home and begin reading right now and fill my mind with something worth retaining. But go on with your story and excuse me for breaking into it. EpitH: Well, there isn't much more, but I think the last lesson is just as wonderful and perhaps even more practical. It is called Social Service. This year we will become acquainted with some of the men and women who have been outstanding in their contributions to human welfare. Jesus Christ is the greatest teacher of the brotherhood of man, whole life and spirit inspired such men and women as Elizabeth Fry, Robert Owen, Octavia Hill, Jane Addams, Samuel G. Howe, Louis Pasteur, and Florence Nightingale in their great reform work. That's all of the lesson work and I hope I haven't tired you. But there is one more phase of our work that I haven't touched upon. It isn't lesson work but last week the Welfare worker asked me to go with her to visit some of the people in our district who were sick. The first place we went to would have touched a heart of stone. (Curtain rises showing sick mother with children kneeling around bed in prayer). There knelt three children round their mother's bed praying for food. Imagine it in a land of plenty! We waited until they finished. As we stepped onto the porch they arose and the mother feebly answered our knock. We found them in destitute circumstances. And that noble little mother was teaching them to pray for food yet too proud to appeal to her neighbors. An hour later we left her smiling and happy though her eyes were swimming in tears. And those little children were properly fed and clothed. No mother could recover while her children were crying for food. We also called upon a young mother (curtain rises showing 'young mother rocking babe and singing lullaby) with her first baby. Our welfare worker told her just how to feed her baby and gave her other helpful instructions. She seemed very grateful for she was so young and inexperienced. You see it's a mission of love. But Relief Society isn't all work. We have our fun as well. Go with me next time to our work meeting and take your first lesson in art and after the lesson we are going to have a real up to date party. Mrs. Jones is going to bring a sample of her famous cake and Velma some homemade candy, They give the written recipes to us too. Mrs. Taylor has charge of the entertainment and you know how full of fun she is. She'll wake you up all right and you'll forget all your worries for a little while at least. THEDA: Come, Dorothy, let's be on our way. We'll have to make preparations to attend the party with Edith. I think I'll join Relief Society if it's like she says it is. How about you? Dorothy: It sounds almost too good to be true. Let's go and try it.