Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley
By Willis E. Robison
From his childhood days, Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley, who was chosen at the October conference as an Apostle of our Lord Jesus Christ, has been very appreciative of those who taught him in Primary, Sunday Schools, Mutuals, and lesser Priesthood Quorums, and of the Bishops, and other good men who labored under the presidency of his father. He views them all as contributory factors that have led him along the chosen lines the Lord has selected and that have enabled him to harmonize his life with the Gospel, and the purity of its teachings. He regards his missions, and missionary companions, and associates as of intrinsic value to him.
Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley, the son of Ira Nathaniel, and Angeline Noble Hinckley, was born at Cove Creek Fort, Millard Co., Utah, April 23, 1870. This Fort was built of lava rock laid in lime mortar which made it a safe and durable structure. Its dimensions were about sixty feet square, with small dwelling rooms built within the walls on the North and South sides. Large heavy wooden gates gave entrance on the East, and West. It was built on the State Highway about midway between Fillmore and Beaver cities, some sixty miles apart. This was a lonely road through Indian territory in those pioneer days, and that was one reason President Young had it built. Under these environments did the new-born babe make his appearance. Might he not, therefore, with propriety be classed as a Utah Pioneer?
The lad's childhood and youthful days were mostly spent in Fillmore, his father was called by President Young to preside over the Millard Stake of Zion. It was in Fillmore Apostle Hinckley received his first ordination in the Priesthood, that of deacon, and he was made President of his quorum. However, for about four years he lived away from his home, part of the time attending school in Provo under the wise tuition of Karl G. Maeser, and the balance of the time in the little mining camp of Frisco, Beaver County, where he clerked in a store for his brother-in-law, Lafayette Holbrook. There he may have gained the basic training in merchandise that led to his becoming the pioneer merchant in Hinckley at a later date.
When he was about twenty-one years of age he taught school in Deseret, Utah, and worked for another brother-in-law, W. A. Ray, in his store during the summer. These experiences led to his gaining an understanding of human nature which caused him to write to a friend, "I appreciate having been a merchant and knowing the needs of the people and finding the honesty, the down right honesty, of many who struggle."
In 1892 Apostle Hinckley married Miss Rose May Robison of Fillmore, and the young couple made their first home in Deseret where he assisted Joshua Greenwood, Superintendent of the Stake Sunday Schools in looking after interests of that institution, in the Stake. They moved to the town of Hinckley some five miles away, where they made their home for many years. While here he engaged in merchandising for himself, and organized the Hinckley Cooperative Store, which was successfully run until July 15, 1915, when it was destroyed by fire and not rebuilt. In the meantime he purchased an eighty acre farm and began buying and selling baled hay which he shipped to the mining camps in Nevada, where it found ready sale. He was elected county collector for the years 1896-7, during this time he was ordained a Seventy, and was called by the Church to fill a mission to the Netherlands. He resigned his county position and filled the Church call, remaining there until 1900.
In 1901 he was ordained a High Priest by Elder Rudger Clawson and set apart as Counselor to Bishop Wm. H. Pratt of the Hinckley Ward. During his residence in Hinckley he was appointed Postmaster which position he filled for a number of years, and then resigned because he could no longer give it his personal attention.
Prominent in church and civil affairs in Millard County, he was chosen in 1902 and set apart as President of the Millard Stake of Zion, to succeed his father who was growing aged. In a few years there was a marvelous growth in the northern part of Millard County, occasioned by reservoiring the Sevier River some miles up the stream, and impounding its waters sufficiently to irrigate thousands of acres of land that was then unproductive, and where new towns were being built. It was decided to divide the Millard Stake, and create a new one on the northwestern part. This was done, and Apostle Hinckley was released from the Millard Stake, and set apart to preside over the new Deseret Stake, which retained the old towns of Oak City, Leamington, Lynndyl, Oasis, Deseret, Hinckley, and Abraham, and the newer towns of Delta, Sutherland, and Sugarville were included in the new stake. He presided until 1929 when he was honorably released after twenty-seven years as the chief religious leader in two stakes of Zion.
In 1916 he represented Millard County in the State Legislature. There his ability as floor leader was widely recognized. In 1930 Elder Hinckley was ordained a Patriarch by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. In 1932 he was called to succeed President Joseph McMurrin as head of the California mission, with headquarters at Los Angeles, where he was laboring at the time he was called to the apostleship.
Elder Hinckley counts his greatest blessings to have been well born, of parents who had implicit faith in the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, who impressed that faith in the hearts of their children, so it was made manifest in their lives. And then to have been well married, all of the successes that may have come to him he feels have centered around, and been fostered by these two important events. The needful training and induction into the Church, and the services therein rendered, among which was a recent short term mission in the Southern States under President Charles A. Callis, the instruction of true parents, and the proper encouragement along the lines of righteous effort by a noble wife have contributed to make his useful life one that will long be remembered.
Doubtless his close associations with the pioneers who were struggling to develop the resources of a new country, and their frequent disappointments, and crop failures, may have contributed largely to the good and enduring traits in his character, for he has had to fight along lines that develop faith, courage, and brotherly kindness, and good will towards all men.
In 1921 he was appointed State Commissioner of Agriculture by Governor Charles R. Mabey, and four years later when the political party changed, Governor Dern retained him for some time before being able to fill his place, which incident was a tribute to his fair mindedness. We must not underestimate the faith of his childhood, or his youth spent among its friends, for these are great and choice experiences that mellow the hearts and souls of men. There is another factor that has been of great value to Elder Hinckley and that is his association with legislators, State officials, judges, politicians, and lawmakers, for they have trained him along lines where he could better defend the innocent, and support the right with greater strength than he might otherwise have done.
President Hinckley has not been conspicuous along religious lines only, but in business and farming he has won many honors. While his pay rolls for help have not been large, they have been constant, and many of his less fortunate neighbors have had cause to rejoice because of the aid thus rendered by this employment. For many years while living in Hinckley he owned and operated two large farms that were well looked after, either on the share basis, or by hired help, and his large stacks of hay, or alfalfa seed, caused general comment by the passer-by. After his release from the presidency of the stake he moved to Salt Lake City, and purchased another farm, larger than either of the others, which he still retains. On the Salt Lake farm he is now conducting a dairy herd. While fate sometimes seemed to rule against him, he was not easily discouraged, but waited the turn of the tide and the relief came, though sometimes in an unexpected manner.
Apostle Hinckley is pleasant in his manner, and genteel in his deportment, with a personality so winning that it has been said of him, "If you once shake hands with Lon Hinckley, you will want to meet him, and shake again." In discussing problems where a difference of opinion exists, he will listen attentively to the objections raised, and then in a pleasing voice and manner, will explain his views and when through if no conversion is made, there will be a real conviction that something has been learned which was not understood before, and all will part friends. Through long experiences in public affairs, and because of faithful service rendered, it could not be otherwise.
In the multiplicity of his labors, Apostle Hinckley has ever regarded his good wife and their children as his greatest assets. This splendid woman, now far past life's meridian, has been the mother of fourteen children, twelve of whom have reached maturity, and can gather around her and call her blessed. The eldest son, Harold, filled a mission for the Church in New Zealand, and is now practicing medicine in California, having graduated from Utah University, and the Denver school of medicine. Rulon, the second son, is a graduate of the Brigham Young University, has filled a Church mission in Switzerland, and is now a seminary teacher in the Hinckley High School. The youngest son, Arza, is now a traveling Elder in the Northwestern states Mission. Of the daughters, Afton Badger, holds a Master's degree in domestic arts from the Brigham Young University. The other daughters have all received High School Diplomas. All of which bear a mute testimony of a generous father's persevering efforts and a loving mother's sincere devotion.