EDITORIAL 49 Lesson Department (First Week in March) Theology and Testimony LESSON VI GEMS OF TRUTH 1. Introductory. This lesson, also the next, deals with gems of truth selected from the Doctrine and Covenants. Each selection is an epitomized statement of some distinctive phase of Latter-day Saint theology, and therefore lends itself to far more extensive treatment than is given herewith. Sufficient suggestions, however, are given in each case to enable the teacher to develop the topics as fully as time will permit. 2. Language of Modern Scriptures. In his introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord says: "These commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding." (D. And C. 1:24). The Lord then goes on to say that his commandments were given in this form that they who sin may be chastened, that they who repent may receive light, that they who are humble may be made strong, and that the Church may be brought out of obscurity and darkness for the salvation of the human race. Indeed, "I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; for I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh when peace shall be taken from the earth. Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled." (D. And C. 1:34-37.) 3. The Lord's testimony is plain and easily understood. He has so worded the commandments that men cannot fail to understand them, since he is not only willing but anxious that all men should come unto him. The clarity of modern scriptures and the readiness with which they can be understood, even by the layman, form a bold contrast with the abstruseness attached to the Bible by some of the more populous Christian sects. 4. Endless and Eternal Punishment. "For, behold, the mystery of godliness, how great is it! For, behold, I am endless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless punishment, for Endless is my name. Wherefore ? Eternal punishment is God's punishment. Endless punishment is God's punishment." (D. And C. 19:10-12.) This simple statement settles for all time a dispute that has rent the Christian world for ages, namely: Will certain transgressors be punished for their sins throughout all future time, without cessation and without end? The affirmative answer to this question?sponsored by numerous Christian professors?has made of Deity a monster devoid of even the fundamental elements of pity and forgiveness. Moreover it has deprived Christianity of the support of untold numbers of men and women who otherwise would have been its valiant adherents. Now, it is known that God's punishment, if endured even for an instant, is both Endless and Eternal. LESSON DEPARTMENT I 5. Importance of Prophetic Utterances. Speaking of Joseph Smith as prophet and leader of the Latterday Saints, the Lord says: ?Wherefore, meaning the Church, thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith." (D. And C. 21:4, 5.) 6. The foregoing declaration leaves no doubt of the binding importance of the words of Joseph Smith and his successors upon the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for when the Prophet speaks in the name of God it carries the same importance as. If Deity himself had spoken. Latter-day Saints who understand this, never question the significance or propriety of the Prophet's utterances. On the other hand, those who fail to do so are not in full accord with the rule and teachings of the Church. 7. Authoritative Baptisms. Shortly after the Church was organized certain individuals who had previously been baptized into other faiths, desired to unite with the Church without re-baptism. The following statement was given of the Lord in answer to this request: "Behold, I say unto you that all old covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; for this is a new and everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning. Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing." (D. And C. 22:1, 2.) The Latter-day Saints, therefore, are not able to accept ordinances performed by other Christian denominations. On the other hand, we can unite with them in the furtherance of all worthwhile endeavors. God himself has said, however, that all ordinances of the Church must be performed in the manner prescribed by him and by individuals vested with proper authority to do so. The world would profit almost immeasurably by understanding and embracing this basic truth. 8. Teachers, Attention: Having reference to those who are teachers within the Church, the Lord says: "The Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not, the Spirit ye shall not teach." (D. And C. 42:14.) The Doctrine and Covenants is replete with statements instructing teachers to familiarize themselves not only with the doctrines of the Church but with all other worthwhile things. (See D. And C. 26:1; 55:4; 88: 118). It is evident from the foregoing quotation that diligent preparation should be accompanied by an appeal to the Lord for his Spirit. Moreover, if this is not granted the teacher should not attempt to teach. The reasons for this are apparent:? Conversions to the Gospel of Jesus Christ are not made alone by facts and arguments, but by the Spirit of God. The following is a safe rule for every teacher: "Treasure up in your minds continually the words of life, and it shall be given you in the very hour that portion that shall be meted out unto every man." (D. And C. 84:85.) 9. Idleness Disapproved. Industry has ever characterized the teachings of the Latter-day Saints. Here is the word of the Lord: "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." Again, "Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shall not have place in the church, except he repent and mend his ways." (See D. And C. 42:42; 75:29.) Idleness is undesirable  in many respects, but perhaps more particularly because of the injury and disintegration that it brings to those who indulge in it. Enforced idleness?such as that which is widespread at present among practically all civilized peoples?is quite another matter. And yet even in this case injury is likely to come to the persistent receiver if he is not required to put forth compensating effort. President Brigham Young recognized the insidious effects of idleness and accordingly kept his people busy at all times. If this had not been done his efforts to colonize the Intermountain West would have failed. 10. If a Brother or Sister Offend. Offenses are likely to arise. If they are encouraged and harbored, they become a canker to the soul, eating away its finer parts and leaving scarcely a semblance of its former beauty. Anger and hatred are as deadly to spiritual development as poison is to the body. Little wonder, then, that the Lord has said: "Ve ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin. I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men. And ye ought to say in your hearts?Let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds." (D. And C. 64:9-11.) The duty of the Latter-day Saints in this regard is thus perfectly clear. 11. Obedience to Civil Law. The Latter-day Saints are a peaceable law abiding people. One of their Articles of Faith reads, "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." Concerning these matters the Lord says: Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." (D. And C. 58:21, 22). Thus, in all nations of the world the Latter-day Saints are loyal both by precept and deed to the governments under which they live. They are not participants in uprisings and riots; nor do they take part in mobocracy or other forms of perfidious conduct. They believe in law and order, and are loyal both to law and to the officials entrusted with its administration. 12. The Sabbath Day. Touching this matter, the commandment of the Lord to ancient Israel reads: "Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work: but the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day and hallowed it." (Exodus 20:9-11.) 13. Of recent years much discussion has arisen concerning the identity of the seventh or sabbath day. It is generally agreed that at present Sunday is the first day, and Saturday, the seventh. For this reason, and others, certain religious sects, particularly the Jews and the Seventh Day Adventists, prefer to worship the Lord on Saturday. Since the time of the Savior, however, it has been necessary on several occasions to readjust the calendar because of earlier lack of knowledge of the precise number of days in a year. This has resulted in some uncertainty as to the exact identity of the original seventh day. Because of this, and because of the express LESSON DEPARTMENT 53 statement that "the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord," agreement does not exist among Christian people as to whether or not they are fulfilling the commandment of the Lord. 14. For themselves, however, the Latter-day Saints, do not share in this uncertainty. Listen to the word of the Lord to Joseph Smith: "But remember that on this, the Lord's day (Sunday), thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." (Read D. And C. 59:9-f4.) 15. Whether Sunday?the Lord's Day?is identical with the original seventh day of old is thus of little importance to the Latter-day Saints. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Discuss the advantages to the Latter-day Saints of having the revelations written in language easily understood by them. 2. In what way has the doctrine of everlasting damnation injured the cause of Christianity? 3. Emphasize the importance of strict obedience to the counsel of the President of the Church. 4. Why is it necessary that teachers of the Gospel possess the Spirit of God? Give illustrations. 5. Cite illustration to show that the harboring of ill feelings is injurious to those who do so. 6. Why is idleness especially destructive of Latter-day Saint ideals? What is its effect upon progression? Teachers' Topic St. VALENTINE'S Day "All the world loves a lover." VALENTINE DAY, February fourteenth, has long been observed as a lover's festival. While not a serious holiday, many pretty customs and old superstitions are associated with its observance. Like many other customs that have originated far back in folk and village life, the valentine, with its lacy designs, with cupids and hearts galore, still holds the attention of youth for a message of love. The most accepted theory of the origin of the day is, that it was a Roman custom to celebrate the feasts of Lupercalia in the middle of February. A custom of this festival was for maiden's names to be placed in a box and men to, draw them out, the man to choose the maiden whose name he drew. In order to change the pagan elements of these feasts, the Christian pastors changed the maiden's names for saints, and named the day in honor of St. Valentine, who was martyred February 14, 270 A. D. Another theory is that the Norman word "galantin," which means a lover, was often spelled "'valatin." Both Chaucer and Shakespeare refer to the observance of the festival on the day in early spring, when birds first choose their mates. In England the custom long prevailed on that day of drawing lots to decide which young men and young women should be each other's valentines during the coming year. The couples thus drawn exchanged gifts and might be regarded as betrothed. The custom of sending written valentines in verse and anonymous was begun about the 15th century. To Charles, Duke of Orleans, who  was taken prisoner at the Battle of Agincourt in 1415 and held for twenty-five years in the Tower of London, is attributed the credit of writing the first valentines. About sixty of these missives are now in the British Museum. In modern times the day is still observed more especially among the youth, by sending tokens of love or a small gift, and is remembered occasionally by older people who are especially fond of each other. The custom of sending the comic valentine, which at one time prevailed, has died out, or if there are those who persist in carrying out this idea, the Relief Society women should do what they can to discourage a habit so pernicious and unseemly. Literature (For Third Week in March) LIFE AND LITERATURE MODERN BIOGRAPHY "Many the things that strange and wondrous are, None stranger and more wonderful than man." LIFE is man's great adventure. In the conquest of his world he becomes a hero. In the Book of Literature is recorded the heroic experiences of mankind. Age-old is the worship of human achievements. As exploration, discovery, dominion, and invention have marked the path of man's progress through the ages, hero-worship has recorded the lives of the heroes in story, or song, or marble. As songs and stories are forgotten and as marble and monuments crumble man's heroism is not lost, it goes on in the experience of the race as a contribution to man's eternal destiny? happiness. Biography, The Art of Life Writing Biography is one of the oldest types of literature. Two thousand years ago Plutarch wrote his famous "Lives". From then until recent years only a few biographical works of excellence have found a place among the enduring works of literature. Today biography is one of ?Sopheocles. The most popular forms of expression. It has become the art of lifewriting. The age-old interest in human achievement makes all men in all ages hero-worshipers. To this attitude in ancient peoples we owe the preservation of such individual lives, legendary or realities, as Joseph of Egypt, Prometheus, Job, Ruth, Socrates, Ulysses, Siegfried, and Arthur of Britain. The first great biographer?still considered by many to be the best?wrote as an explanation to his work "Lives", "My design is not to write histories but lives." Thus the real objective of biography becomes not merely a history of a life but a portrait of an individual. Dryden, the English Literary scholar, in 1685 gave to the life-story of an individual the title "Biography," and to the literary form the definition, "the history of particular men's lives." Thus the tradition of greatness became a standard for the selection of the materials of biography and history became the pattern of LESSON DEPARTMENT 55 writing. As a result many biographies are merely chronological records and records of achievement. Lives of rulers, statesmen, military leaders, poets, and artists became the biographical vogue. Later biography accepted the dictum expressed by Longfellow: "Lives of great men all remind us, We can make our lives sublime, And departing leave behind us, Footprints on the sands of time." Goodness as a quality directed biography to become eulogistic. Concerned with being monumental and inspirational writers stripped their subjects of human weaknesses making them heroic rather than human. Sainte Beuve (sant buv), the French critic, in his work "Eighteenth Century Portraits" brought a new conception to this literary form, that of a literary portrait. The French school of writers developed the idea so effectively that modern biography has accepted as its task "the truthful transmission of personality"?the portrait of the soul of man. Biography as a portrait sets down more than facts, achievement, and eulogy; it records the "why" of a life. This new art of life-writing is the most delicate and most human of all branches of modern literature because its basis is human life and human nature. The story of biography as a literary form includes the growth of a variety of self-expression?autobiography, memoirs, confessions, journals, diaries, and letters. The various forms of self-writing are motivated by a sense of individuality. To the "Recollections" of Xenephon and the "Dialogues" of Plato we are indebted for our understanding of the great Greek philosopher, Socrates. The famous Roman general Julius Cesar left a valuable record of his military career in his "Commentaries." Marcus Aurelius, the Latin philosopher recorded his intellectual and moral interests in his "Meditations." The confession is the most interesting form of autobiography. The tendency to extol, to monumentize, to forget, to rationalize are all evident as the author lays bare his inner life. 'The Confessions of St. Augustine" written 397 A. D. Was a definite influence towards subjectivity in self-expression. The world famous autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini (chel le ne) written early in the fifteenth century is a revealing picture of the Italian sculptor as libertine, braygart, and saint. The "Confessions''" of Rousseau (roos so) the French moralist, startled the eighteenth century with a frankness that bordered upon indelicacy. Of the minor forms of autobiography, the journal is usually a straight-forward record of events, while the letter is an initmate personal affair. The letter is the more revealing of the two forms, the life of George Eliot so ably constructed from her letters by her husband J. W. Cross, and the romance of the Brownings recorded in their letters mark the literary peak of the simplest form of self-writing. The diary is the unpretensious and sincere autobiographical form written generally for individual pleasure. This was the case with the world renowned Pepys' Diary (peps or pepys). Whatever the form selfwriting takes the fact remains "that there is neither picture nor image of marble, nor sumptuous sepulchre can match the durableness of an eloquent biography." Modern Biography In recent years biographers have endeavored to portray realities, not mere puppets stalking across a stage.  Hence the modern life-writer must be a student of human character as well as a chronicler; neither does he judge or criticize, he reveals and he exposes, but always walks behind his characters. The realistic movement in fiction coupled with the demand of the reader for "real life,? has given rise to the modern imaginative and impressionistic pattern. The modern biographer courageously gathers all the outward facts that can be obtained, these he tries to use to reveal accurately the hidden springs of character that motivated the life of his subject. He must at all times be objective and truthful? he must reveal not invent, never forgetting his obligation to his subject and to his art. It is to be regretted, however, that many of the new biographers have elected to over-emphasize the defects of their subjects rather than to truthfully reveal their lives. Amy Lowell, the author of the "Life of Keats," explains herself thus, "My object has been to make the reader feel as though he were living with Keats, subject to the same influences that surrounded him, watching the advent of poems as from day to day they sprang into being." To the reader who has sought to understand the enigma of Edgar Allen Poe, the life work "Israel" by Harvey Allen is most enlightening because "the shadows of the portrait are not left out nor are they too distorted." To read of Jane Carlyle, wife of the great historian from Froude's life we see a sensitive woman, unhappy and misunderstood, but to read Miss Drew's life of Jane Carlyle one sees an impatient garrulous woman the victim of self-pity, the wife of a patient and devoted husband. The explanation is simple, Froude loved Jane Carlyle; Miss Drew admired Thomas Carlyle. Few subjects have been as fortunate as Dr. Johnson to have a Boswell for a biographer, to associate with him during life and create the portrait from day to day out of conversations, moods, and actions. That it is the ideal way is true, but all biographers are not Boswells, and all subjects are not Samuel Johnsons. As the years go by, however, we are assured that the interest in human life will not wane, that the admiration of human courage will not cease, and that the understanding of human conflicts will not diminish, because biography will help to keep alive the torch of the spirit in man. Tradition says great people are fit subjects for biography but art does not accept this consideration. If the modern life-story conforms to the ideal of a literary portrait the basis of judgment is the portrayal not of the greatness of the subject. One is reminded that it is the smile of "Mona Lisa" that lingers in the memory not the name of the subject of the portrait. A human life is made up of a number of motifs around these the biographer weaves his story realizing that "there is no life of man faithfully recorded, but it is a heroic poem of its sort rhymed or unrhymed." Three Modern Biographers Among modern biographers we find three who have achieved fame as literary artists: Andre Maurois, French; Lytton Strachey, English; Gamaliel Bradford, American. Andre Maurois in his work "Aspects of Biography" has revealed the growth of his greatest works "Amiel, the life of Shelley" and "Disraeli". Of the writing of "Amiel" the author relates the reading of a life of Shelley gave him keen pleasure, because some of the poet's experiences he could understand. After careful research he wove the three characters, Shelley, Harriet, his wife, and Mary Godwin into a novel. Finding that this was the wrong approach, the author cast the materials into the form of a life-story, finding joy in his own expression because the romanticism of the poet was the romanticism of every young man. Of writing 'Disraeli' Maurois relates: "JT had no love for the young Disraeli with his gold chains, his elaborate waistcoats, and his ambitions. But I had immense sympathy for the Disraeli who discovered the opposition of a hostile world, for the Disraeli so grossly attacked by secondrate opponents; for the Disraeli who stuck to his guns and never accepted defeat, for the Disraeli who was the tender husband of Mary Ann and the faithful friend of John Manners I learned through him the meaning of old age and of the approach of death?a piece of hard and inevitable schooling." Always writing with enthusiasm, with understanding sincerity, with lucidity Andre Maurois is a great biographer. Lytton Strachey, eminent English biographer, set a new standard for writing in "Eminent Victorians" and "Queen Victoria." Educated at Cambridge he became a writer for periodicals. Using the method of the novelist, he presented the lives of the people whom he had studied so sympathetically and with such deep understanding that almost instantly fame was his. "Queen Victoria" is a portrait of awoman. It is not a record of English affairs or English life, always we see the little Victorian. We see "Dear Albert," we see Victoria not as a queen but as a woman, whether she is writing in her diary, or at an evening chess party at Windsor Castle. The work of Lytton Strachey has been the motivating force of the new school of modern biography. Gamaliel Bradford, American, is a prolific biographer. ?Confederate Portraits" "portraits of women." "Damaged Souls" and "Biography and the Human Heart" are considered by many to be his best work. To write biography as a literary portrait has been his purpose. Because ''we live and move in a world of shadows, in which there is one intense reality, the reality called I, which perhaps is the vaguest shadow of all. Gamaliel Bradford has sought to understand human ntaure. As man's greatest interest is life, Gamaliel Bradford has abiding faith that to read biography will bring to man not only entertaniment, but some increase in patience, in sympathy, in tolerance and love. The Portrait of a Woman Emily Dickenson is one of the most interesting figures in American Literature. It has been said that her life could be told in three lines. "Born in Amherst. Lived in Amherst. Died in Amherst." When she died in 1886 seven hundred of her poems in manuscript were found in an old mahogany chest with certain old letters all marked to be burned. Since the publication of the poems a chorus of praise has acclaimed the work to be that of a genius. It has been characterized "as perhaps the finest by a woman in the English language." Other enthusiastic admirers consider her the greatest woman poet since Sappho. The poetry of Emily Dickenson has no parallel in the whole of literature. The chief subjects are?life, love, nature, time, eternity. The poems are short intense flashes of suggestiveness. Gamaliel Bradford calls them ''Clods of fire, shreds of heaven, snatches of eternity." Only two persons knew Emily Dickenson intimately, herself and her "Sister Sue," her brother's wife. For the last thirty years of her life she was a recluse. -Her devoted LESSON DEPARTMENT 57  biographer Martha Dickenson Bianchi, has described her thus: ?Fascination was her element. She was not daily bread, she was star dust. Her solitude made her and was part of her." She lived spiritually within her own heart and mind. The facts of Emily Dickenson's life are simple to relate, yet fraught with tremendous significance. Her life was spent in the little town of Amherst, Massachusetts. Her father a prominent lawyer was also treasurer of Amherst College. At the age of fifteen she was a sensitive girl with a greedy mind reveling in nature and believing that it was a terrible thing to grow up. Everything interested her when she went to complete her education at Mt. Holyoke Seminary. During these days she wrote for fun, but encouraged by a tutor she began to write seriously. In the winter of 1853 came the experience which changed the course of her life. A carefree happy young woman went to spend the winter with her father, a member of congress at Washington. There she met a brilliant young engineer, Edward Hunt. Overwhelming was the mental and spiritual attraction between the two only to become a tragic force, because he was already married. After parting they never met again. For forty years Emily Dickenson kept her love story a secret from her family. She sang her love, however, in her poems. When Major Hunt was accidentally killed during a naval experiment, Emily Dickenson's creative life was stimulated. Her sensitive being seemed to be nurtured by this extreme suffering. Her withdrawal from the world was the natural thing for an individual of her sensitivity. Her poetry is not the expression of a saddened recluse; it is the expression of a great spiritual experience. We read her poems with reverent sympathy remembering that there is a divinity that is the birthright of a poet. It would seem that this gift was the endowment of Emily Dickenson. " Of the poems of Emily Dickenson the following are best known: "If I Can Stop One Heart From Breaking," "We Never Know How High We Are," "The Soul Selects Her Own Society," "A Word," "I Took One Draught of Life," "Renunciation," "I Read My Sentence Steadily." Her love poems merged into death poems as she approached eternity; "A Wife at Daybreak I Shall Be" concluded the series thus: "Eternity, I'm coming Master I've seen thy face before." Death but the drifts of Eastern Gray Dissolving in the East away Before the West begins." The immortal eight lines recording the tragedy of her life and indicative of her poetic power have given her the right to be considered among the finest of modern poets: "My life closed twice before its close; It yet remains to see If Immortality unveil A third event to me. "So huge, so hopeless to conceive, As these that twice befell Parting is all we know of heaven, And all we need of hell." A Modern Biography "Mary of Nazareth" by Mary Borden is a portrait of the mother of Jesus. The reader can do no other than approach the book in wonder at the courage and daring of the author. The biography is a recreation of the life of a woman of Palestine at the time of Christ. The creator, a careful student of historical, sociological and religious conditions of the Hebrews of this period, has drawn the picture sympathetically in quiet colors. Throughout LESSON DEPARTMENT the story we see Mary as she reveals herself at the Feast of the Passover when Jesus remained at the temple to question the elders? the spirit of anxiety but not of complete understanding. The narrative follows the activities of Jesus, dealing chiefly with Mary's concern for her son, at times following him to Capernaum, at others patiently waiting at Nazareth for any news, but always anxious over the growing antagonism of the Jews. Mary of Magdala understands the mission of Jesus and tries to help Mary in the understanding of her Son's divine mission. There are several scenes of poignant' beauty in the book:?Mary is teaching her little grandchildren a portion of Hebraic law. As they kneel at her feet they chant aloud to her question, "Of what shall the sabbath lamps be lighted?' They respond in desultory fashion as Mary's mind is wandering in anxiety to her son now performing miracles in Capernaum. The scene of the meeting of the mother of Jesus with Mary of Magdala is arresting in its significance. As the women follow Jesus during his trial and crucifixion the suffering is intense but delicately portrayed. In closing the book the reader admits that the task of the author is well done, and it is almost with the feeling of gratitude that the approach has been so gentle and has been so objective with so much respect for the religious beliefs of mankind. As the great masters painted Mary as the Maddona we accept their portraits. Mary Borden's work is a portrait of Mary of Nazareth, revealing not divinity but the mother of Jesus of Nazareth. Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature?Macy. 2. Portraits of Women?Bradford. 3. Aspects of Biography?Maurots. 4. Poems of Emily Dickenson. B. Program: 1. Discussion a. The Art of Life-writing. B. Aspects of Modern Biography. 2. Review a. A modern biography. B. An intimate biography of a woman either intimately known or sincerely admired by the group. 3. Readings a. Selections from the poems of Emily Dickenson accompanied by a brief sketch of her life. Objective: This lesson is planned to give an understanding of biography as a literary form because of its significant place in the literature of today. Social Service (Fourth Week in March) SAMUEL G. HowE AND THE PuysitcaLtty HANDICAPPED the history of human welfare work is the apparently accidental way in which great moveOi of the strangest things in ments began?a prison scene in the life of Mrs. Fry, the appointment of John Howard as sheriff, and the fainting of a poor woman in Octavia  Hill's kitchen. It was the same in the case of the man who began the work for the blind. 1. A Scene in Paris, France In 1771 a fair was held in Paris. It was an annual event, and drew thousands into the city from all parts of the land. A certain innkeeper, hoping to make what profits he could from the fair, determined upon an unusual spectacle. Gathering all the blind men he could find, he dressed them in fantastic apparel and trained them for a burlesque play, a sort of comic opera. Most of them wore tall pointed hats, they had on pasteboard spectacles, and the head player was decorated with peacock feathers and the headdress of Midas. The play was repeated day after day. This degrading scene proved a great hit with those who had come to the city for the fair, as well as with the townspeople generally. They had never witnessed such a sight before; it brought many a small coin into the coffers of the tavern keeper. One of the spectators, however, had very different feelings from the rest of the onlookers. His heart was filled with pity that any one should think so lightly of these poor unfortunates as to make a jest of them. There may have been others who thought the same thing, but this particular man believed that something should be done about it. Herein lay the chief difference between him and them?a difference that was to mean so much to the blind in years to come. This man's name was Hauy (pronounced Hawee, with the accent on the second syllable). The brother of a celebrated physicist and mineralogist, he was then only twenty-seven years old. Always, in the countries, there had been blind men. A few of these became famous?Nicholas Saunderson, an Englishman, for instance, who, after taking a degree at Cambridge, became professor of mathematics there, and the Swiss naturalist, Francis Huber, who, with the assistance of his wife, actually wrote a book on The Habits of Ants. Homer and Milton, one remembers were also blind. But, for the most part, blind persons, men and women, had taken to begging on the streets, as the only means of obtaining a livelihood. They were uniformly objects of pity everywhere. Blind beggars were as common a sight on the streets of Paris as they were in other European cities of the same size. No sooner had Valentin Hauy conceived the idea that he ought to do something for the blind than he went about his self-imposed task. He began his work by teaching a blind boy in his neighborhood, who had been in the habit of begging at a church door. Encouraged by his success with this lad, Hauy collected other blind persons, and taught them in the same way. In 1784 he established in Paris a school for the blind, the first of its kind in the world. One day his first pupil, while sorting papers on his teacher's desk, came across a card strongly indented by type, some of the letters on which he was able to make out. When he reported this discovery to the master, Hauy got the idea of raised letters as a means of teaching the blind to read. Presently he gave a public exhibition of his pupils, one before King Louis XVI and his court, with the result that, as long as the novelty lasted, he received financial help from individuals, and later from the state. As time went on schools for the blind were established in Vienna, Berlin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and other continental and English cities ?all growing out of the work of Valentin Hauy. LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 2. The Work Takes Hold in America. These schools for the blind in various parts of Europe resulted, as one might easily suppose, from visits to the Paris institution by interested persons?Klein from Vienna, Zeune from Berlin, Gall from Edinburgh, and Alston from Glasgow. As a matter of fact, one of the two first schools of the kind in America came from a similar visit to the French institution by Dr. John D. Fisher, of Boston. Although, as we are told, the best schools for the blind are to be found in Germany and Austria at the present time, yet Dr. Fisher established in Boston a better institution of the kind than was then to be found in any European country. This was probably due to the fact that in the Boston school there was at its head one of the most remarkable men who ever engaged in the work of teaching. This man was Dr. Samuel G. Howe. Dr. Howe was the husband of Julia Ward Howe, an American writer who, through her most famous poem, the Battle Hymn of the Republic, stirred the feelings of patriotism in her fellow citizens during the civil war days. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1810, and died in 1876. When he was twentyone, he was graduated from Brown University in the arts course, and three years later from Harvard University with a degree in medicine. Human welfare work was a passion with him. That is the reason, most likely, why he studied medicine in the first place. It furnishes the reason, too, for his war work among the Greeks across the ocean. For, at the age of twenty-three, he went to Greece to help in the cause of freedom. After he got there he found that he could best serve the cause by returning to America and raising money and provisions; and this he did, going back to Greece with sixty thousand dollars, which he had raised chiefly among his friends here. His native interest in human beings, also, supplied the urge in him for his opposition to slavery. His chief contribution, however, to human welfare lies in his extraordinary work for the blind, the deaf and dumb, and the feeble-mimded. Indeed, his work with these is outstanding. ? One day Dr. Fisher, with a friend, was walking on the street in Boston. Dr. Fisher, as already stated, had become interested in work for the blind through visiting the Hauy institution in Paris. He was now contemplating the establishment of such a school in Boston, and was in eager search of a suitable person to take charge of it. Suddenly he stopped and said to his friend, "There's the man we are looking for!" And he pointed to Dr. Howe. A bargain was struck there and then, and the adventurous Howe was made head of an institution that had an existence, for the moment, only in the minds of Dr. Fisher and his interested friends. No better choice could have been made, as the event was to prove. The first thing that Dr. Howe did was to make another journey to Europe, for the purpose of studying the best methods of dealing with, and teaching, the blind. With this end in view he visited the Hauy school in Paris and the institution for the blind in Edinburgh. An incident that happened before his return throws light on the character of Howe. He wrote home that "some matters of private interest" required that he get permission for a further absence, which was granted. The "matters of private interest" proved to be carrying funds and supplies to the disheartened Poles, in their struggle for freedom. A little  after this he was imprisoned secretly by the German government, and his release secured with difficulty, through a happy coincidence. The first pupils in the new American school for the blind were Abby and Sophia Carter, "two pretty little girls, one about six, the other about eight years old, tidily dressed, and standing hand in hand hard by the toll-house." On receiving the consent of their parents, Dr. Howe took them to his father's house, where the first school was held. It was then, and has continued to be, a private school, although its first money ($1,500) was contributed by the state legislature. The year following the establishment of the Boston school for the blind, the legislature appropriated the sum of six thousand dollars for the support of the institution. This was after an exhibition of the pupils by Dr. Howe before this body. This exhibition before the legislature was followed by others, one in Salem and one in Boston. At a fair in the former town the women raised nearly three thousand dollars for the school, and in the latter city the women there, not to be outdone, raised more than eleven thousand dollars at a bazaar in Faneuil Hall. Presently a wealthy man in Boston, Thomas H. Perkins, gave his mansion on Pearl Street as a home for the school?provided that fifty thousand dollars was raised. With this new home and some money, the institution for the blind was now well established. 3. Laura Bridgman Dr. Howe's remarkable powers of observation, of patient waiting for results, and of his unusual resourcefulness are indicated in his work with Laura Bridgman. Laura Bridgman, when she came to the Boston institution, was seven years old. This was in 1837. She had had "fits" till she was about a year and a half old, and at two she had contracted scarlet fever, which left her without sight and hearing, and almost without the power to smell. In consequence, of course, she was also dumb. On recovering from her illness she was an invalid for two years. ''The storm of disease gradually abated, however," says Dr. Howe, "and the wreck at last floated peacefully upon the stream of life. But what a wreck! Blind, deaf, dumb, and, moreover, without that distinct consciousness of individual existence, which is developed by the exercise of the senses." In this condition Laura entered the school. Dr. Howe had for some time been deeply interested in the problem raised by the case of Laura Bridgman. He had followed with intense interest the experiments that had proved futile in the case of Julia Brace, at Hartford, Connecticut, in the American Asylum there. And so, when he read an account of Laura Bridgman, written by Dr. Mussey, he said to himself, as he tells us, "Here is an opportunity of assisting an unfortunate child, and, moreover, of deciding the question so often asked, whether a blind-mute can be taught to use an arbitrary language." In all of Dr. Howe's efforts to educate and train Laura the chief purpose, of course, was to get her to learn the language?"without which," as he truly says, 'she could never attain any considerable development of intellect, or of affections." This could be done, however, in only one of two ways. First, she might be taught a sign for everything. She was very fond, for instance, of figs, and she learned to make a sign which signified that she wanted a fig. But to have a separate sign for everything meant the multiplicity of signs LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 beyond the power of the mind to remember. So Dr. Howe quickly abandoned this plan. Second, she would have to be taught "a system of purely arbitrary signs, by combinations of which she could give names to anything and everything: that is, the letters of the alphabet." How this was accomplished is one of the most fascinating stories in teaching. First he put before her such articles as key, spoon, knife, together with the words "key", "spoon", and "knife" in raised letters. These she learned to associate in her mind. 'So keen was the sense of touch in her tiny fingers that she immediately perceived that the crooked lines in the word key differed as much in form from the crooked lines in the word spoon as one article differed from the other." Next "similar labels, on detached pieces of paper, were put into her hands, and she now observed that the raised letters on these labels resembled those pasted upon the articles. She showed her perception of this resemblance by placing the label with the word key upon the key, and the label spoon upon the spoon." Presently she was able to find the label for the article and to place it where it belonged. "The next step was to give a knowledge of the component parts of the complex sign, book, for instance. This was done by cutting up the label into four parts, each part having a letter upon it." At first she was puzzled, but gradually it began to dawn upon her that "here was a way by which she could herself make up a sign of anything that was in her own mind, and show it to another mind." Immediately her face lighted up with a human expression. She was no longer a parrot. She was an immortal spirit, eagerly seizing upon a new link of union with other spirits. It was a great, a dramatic moment. From now on progress was easier. This method of teaching the word first and then the letters anticipated by decades the present method of teaching beginners in the public schools. 4. Growth of the Work in the United States. Although, as already stated, the Boston institution was not actually the first school for the blind established in the United States, the one in New York preceding it by a few months, yet the Boston school may be said to be the parent of the movement in this country for the education of the physically handicapped here, and Dr. Samuel G. Howe the real pioneer in the movement. We have already seen that Dr. Howe gave an exhibition of his pupils before the legislature of Massachusetts. He did so, too, in other States, where it was desired to found institutions for the blind?in New York, in Pennsylvania, in the New England States generally. Thus, in 1833, a school was established in Philadelphia; in 1835, one in Delaware; in 1836, one in New Jersey: in 1837, one in Maryland; in 1837 also, one in Ohio. After this came the institutions for the blind in Virginia (1839), Kentucky (1842), Tennessee (1843), Illinois (1848). Wisconsin (1849), Georgia (1851). And so on till now almost every State in the Union makes some provision for its physically handicapped citizens. It should be noted here that the 'assumption respecting work for the blind-mutes is different in America and Europe. Whereas in this country we are willing to help these unfortunates, in Europe they take it for granted that they cannot make a living in the world, and must not be expected to do so. Accordingly in Europe instruction of the blind ends at fourteen years of age, after  which purely vocational work is given them?handicraft, piano-tuning, etc. Dr. Howe, in this respect, was beforehanded. "You may give the blind," he says, "the means of earning their own livelihood, or at least of doing much towards it; you may light the lamp of knowledge within them." And he went on to say that the object in the education of the blind is "to take from society so many dead weights, and enable them to get their own livelihood; society ought not to consider any capital so invested as a sinking fund for the redemption of its charitable debt." He believed that girls and boys ought to be kept separate in institutions for the blind, and at first he was opposed to the blind marrying, though he afterwards modified this view to the extent of allowing them to marry one who could see. Not only may Dr. Howe be regarded as the father of the movement for the education of the blindmute in America, but his home in Boston proved to be the center in this country of the interest in the work for the physically and mentally handicapped. "Here Dorothea Dix came to ask advice in her crusade in the aid of the insane; here Horace Mann discussed the questions of public education. Charles Sumner spent many a night here talking on the burning subjects of slavery and secession. Theodore Parker's voice rang through these rooms 'like a hammer which breaketh the rocks' of superstition and formality. Charles Dickens passed hours here, and carried away impressions which he never lost." When Dr. Howe passed away, the governor of Massachusetts sent a special mesasge to the legislature, which was then in session, calling attention to the State's loss "of a distinguished citizen." And at the funeral of Laura Bridgman, Edward Everett Hale gave an address, from which the following is taken: "Owing to the life of this woman, there has been taken a step forward and upward in the education of children in all civilized lands. God has so ordered it, in his providence and wisdom, that in the marvelous develpoment of her life a step was taken which has changed all education, in what it was, what it is, and what it promises to be. And that is the feeling which the world will have, as from nation to nation it comes to know that Laura Bridgmen has passed from life to life.". This was, of course, high praise of the work of Dr. Samuel G. Howe, for without him Laura Bridgman would have been nothing. Incidentally it should be added that Anna M. Sullivan, teacher of Hellen Keller, was a pupil-assistant of Dr. Howe in the Boston school. Class Discussion 1. What facilities has your community and State for the education and vocational training of the blind and deaf? Those who are familiar with what is done in the State institutions and what they have to offer, can be of great service to the handicapped in their community. For instance, the circulating library for the blind, the traveling teacher, the work shops and reading rooms, as well as the institutions and associations for the blind. We suggest that a class member be asked to report on all the resources for the betterment of the blind and the deaf. 2. Tell something about the Braille system of reading and how it originated. The associations of the blind are very much opposed to the blind begging. What do you think is the reason for this disapproval? 3. Tell something of the life of Hellen Keller. How was she indebted to Dr. Howe? LESSON DEPARTMENT 65 Mission Lessons LESSON VI. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING MEDICINE CABINET "Health and cheerfulness mutually beget each other.??Addison. WE learn from a certain nursery rhyme that "for the want of a nail, a city was lost." It so happened only recently in a home, that a thumb was lost for want of a good antiseptic at the time of injury. Too often an emergency arises which requires some simple remedy that is to be handled properly and readily if the right materials are available, and many real tragedies may be averted by a little fore-thought. Preparedness in the home, to meet the minor emergencies and to treat the common ailments, requires a medicine chest. No home, especially one with growing children, is complete without one. True, the drug store may be just around the corner?but home accidents are apt to occur any time when the drug store doors are closed. It is most embarrassing, in the wee small hours of the morning to be compelled to borrow from a neighbor, a simple remedy which should be found in every well regulated household. In time of health prepare for sickness. Somewhere in every household, usually on a back shelf and covered with dust, are to be found a few indifferent remedies. These medicines may be scattered through the toilet articles; they may be cluttered up with shoe horns, hair grease, face creams, old razor blades, etc.,? so the family medicine chest actually becomes a family menace. The value of a medicine cabinet is in keeping the necessary articles in good condition. 'Check the medicines as they are used just as you do your groceries, and replenish as soon as possible." Get rid of the non-essentials. Most patent medicines and cure-alls are worthless. The value of many patent medicines is greatly exaggerated through advertising claims. Many of them are absolutely worthless and yet some have sold as high as twelve dollars per bottle. Old prescriptions should be thrown away. Drugs deteriorate with age and a prescription for one illness is not good for another. Do not buy drugs in large quantities. Some drugs become very concentrated with age, and tincture of iodine with evaporation of the alcohol, may become very caustic and its application produce a burn or a blister. Drugs are not as popular as they were fifty years ago. Modern treatment emphasizes the value of diet, baths, rest, and other corrective measures for the treatment of sickness. Prevention is still more important than cure, but the fact remains that in every home accidents do happen and sometimes sickness is present. It is important therefore that every home should have some first aid supplies, and a few remedies which have a definite use and value in common ailments. "Medicine can be helpful at the right time and harmful at the wrong time." It is not intended that we prescribe for ourselves and make a diagnosis always of our own ailment, this must be left to a physician. Someone has said that a sick person who prescribes and treats his own ailment has a fool for a patient. We may not all agree as to what remedies we should include in our  medicine chest; but in most emergencies there are certain well known remedies, which have stood the test of time, and these should be found there. A medicine cabinet may be a very elaborate affair, or it may be a very simple, effective and useful addition to every home, giving a sense of comfort and security. It should hang on the wall of the bathroom, well out of the way of the children. It would be well to paint it white and a red cross, the symbol of relief the world over, could be painted in the door. Glass shelves are preferable, they show the dust and are easily cleaned. Keep the medicine cabinet clean. Keep toilet articles away from the medicines. Get rid of the old things and arrange the medicines so they can be found when needed. Keep the labels on bottles clean and readable. When you pour medicine from a bottle remember always to keep the label side up, and by doing so none of the contents will spoil the label. Wipe bottles off after using. Parents who are taking sugar coated pills and chocolate covered tablets often leave them carelessly about the bathroom shelves. Such tablets are a source of great danger to children. They often contain strychnine, and a child attracted by "the bright color and sweet flavor fails to notice the bitter underneath." Children have been poisoned by this negligence. Warning labels should be on all such remedies. They must be kept in the medicine cabinet away from children.. Never take medicine in the dark. If you are taking a liquid medicine always shake the bottle before pouring. Follow directions absolutely, giving just the amount ordered. Cork the bottle at once and replace it on the shelf. It is important that you read the label three times; first as you take the medicine from the chest, next after you have poured it out, and third as you replace the bottle back upon the shelf. Always do this before taking a dose of medicine, it is a good habit to acquire. A little water, a piece of cracker or cheese or a peppermint, immediately after taking medicine will make it more palatable. There are certain well established drugs and first aid supplies the value of which cannot be disputed and these should always be found in the medicine cabinet. The Contents of the Medicine Cabinet EXTERNAL USE TINCTURE OF IODINE, two ounces?ask the druggist to dilute the regular tincture of iodine with alcohol, making it just one-half strength, AS A DISINFECTANT ?This is used on cuts and wounds. Allow it to dry before applying the dressing. TURPENTINE ? three ounces ?an excellent disinfectant for small fresh cuts, especially on the hand. Soak a small piece of gauze in the turpentine and bandage it over the cut. This remedy is also good to remove wood-ticks. HYDROGEN PEROXIDE? four ounces ? a fine disinfectant for the more delicate structures. Excellent for stopping bleeding and when a piece of gauze is soaked with peroxide it makes an effective pack to stop nose-bleed. ABSORBENT COTTON?two one-ounce packages. Wash clean and scald a small one pint fruit jar, wet the large end of a tooth-pick, and wrap small pieces of cotton around it. This makes an excellent swab or applicator, and many of these can be kept in the jar and will always be ready for use. LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 GAUZE BANDAGES ? two bandages each of the following sizes: one inch, two inches and three inches. All bandages to be left in original packages. STERILE GAUZE ?two one yard packages. Keep the gauze in the original packages. Handle it only by the corners when applying a dressing. Always use gauze next to a wound and never cotton. A little cotton, however, placed on the outside of the gauze before bandage is applied will help keep the dressing in place. SPOOL OF ADHESIVE?one spool of adhesive one inch wide will meet most of the requirements. Useful sometimes in bringing the cut surfaces of a. Wound together, also to assist in keeping the dressings in place. WHITE VASELINE?one tube, can be used as a dressing for burns, also an excellent ointment for skin irritation and small abrasions. PICRIC ACID GAUZE?a very ?ffective dressing for burns. BORIC ACID POWDER?one three ounce tin. A teaspoonful of this powder to a cup of water makes a good eye lotion and can also be used as a mouth wash. Some SAFETY PINS and a blunt pair of SCISSORS complete the articles on the top shelf of the medicine cabinet. INTERNAL USE CASTOR OIL ? four ounces. Dose, tablespoon for children. Adults about twice that much. Can be given in a little orange juice to which a pinch of soda has been added just before taking. MILK OF MAGNESIA?three ounces. An excellent laxative for infants and adults. An anti-acid and very palatable. EPSOM SALTS ? four ounce tin. A cathartic, rapid and sure, and can be used in a solution for moist dressings on old wounds. AROMATIC CASCARA?three ounces. This is a mild stimulating laxative, pleasant to take?must be well diluted with water and the dose is one to two teaspoonfuls upon retiring. Laxatives are only to be used in case of emergency. Constipation must be corrected by diet and if it persists always consult a doctor. Never give a laxative in the presence of an inflammatory condition of the bowels. AROMATIC SPIRITS OF AMMONIA?one ounce bottle. An excellent stimulant for fainting or for the heart?the dose is_ one-half teaspoonful in one-half cup of cold water. It can be poured on a handkerchief and used for inhalations by holding over the nose of the patient. SYRUP OF IPECAC ? two ounce bottle. Use to produce vomiting and for children with croup. SWEET SPIRITS OF NITRE ?two ounces. The dose is a teaspoonful in a cup of water, good for fever and to increase the urinary output. LIME WATER?eight ounces. To be used as a stomach sedative? added to milk it prevents curdling, combined with linseed oil, equal parts, it makes an excellent dressing for burns. ESSENCE OF PEPPERMINT ?one ounce. For colic in infants? the dose is five to ten drops in a tablespoon of water. MISCELLANEOUS ARTTICLES?a well equipped medicine cabinet should contain a fever thermometer, a medicine glass, a medicine dropper, a small jar of salt and another one of baking soda. A few  wooden tongue depressors and eight ounces of rubbing alcohol. Salt water makes a good throat gargle. EAR DROPS?an ounce bottle of carbolated glycerine, ten per cent solution. The ear drops should be warm before putting in the ear. Test heat by pouring a drop on the arm inside of the elbow. PAREGORIC AND ASPIRIN are two very fine remedies, but in America they have been very much abused. They have their uses and if properly used are a valuable addition to any medicine cabinet. OLIVE OIL, consecrated, should be found in every Latter-day Saint home.