[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | February | Issue: 7 | Title: F. MARION CRAWFORD. | Author: Unknown]

		F. MARION CRAWFORD.
	F. Marion Crawford was born at the
Baths of Lucca, Italy, August 2, 1845,
son of Thomas Crawford, the American
sculptor, and nephew of Julia Ward Howe.
Was sent as a boy to St. Paul’s school,
at Concord, New Hampshire. Return-
ing to Europe he was at Cambridge Uni-
versity from 1870 to 1874, and for several
years studied philosophy and the lan-
guages at Heidleburg, the Polytechnicum
(Carlshruhe), and the university at Rome.
Visited India for the purpose of perfect-
ing his knowledge of oriental languages
and mysticism, and assumed the editor-

[Column 2]
ship of a newly established newspaper at
Allahabad, capital of the northwest prov-
inces. This venture proving unsuccess-
ful, he came to America once more, and
passed the academic year of 1880-1 at
Harvard in a course of Sanscrit and Zend,
with Prof. C. R. Lausdman, receiving a
diploma from the university. At this
period he contributed to periodicals a
number of reviews, dealing with political,
social and economic philosophy. His atten-
tion was turned to fiction by his uncle,
Mr. Samuel Ward of New York City, to
whom he related some of his experiences
in the Orient, and who advised him to
make them the basis of a novel. “Mr.
Isaacs” appeared in 1882 and was imme-
diately successful. Mr. Crawford resided
in New York City and Boston until 1884,
after which he made his home at Sorren-
to, Italy, and devoted himself entirely to
literature. His other works are Dr.
Claudius, 1883, “To Leeward,” 1883, “A
Roman Singer,” 1884; “An American Po-
litician,” 1884; “Zoraster,” 1885. Tale of a
“Lonely Parish,” 1886; Saracinesa;” 1887,
“Paul Patoff;” 1887 “With the Immort-
als,” 1888; “Saut Iloas Mazio’s Cruficix,”
1887; “Saut Iliasia;” sequel to Lauvania,
1889; “Grufrustia;” 1889. Contributed a
national hymn to the Centennial, at
Philadelphia, 1887.
	It is said that while relating some of his
experiences during his travels, his uncle ad-
vised him to write them up, get a pub-
lisher and thus turn them to account.
Mr. Crawford having had his Harvard ex-
perience, was only in his early twenties,
when the financial disasters of 1873
brought destruction to his mother’s large
fortune, thus throwing him very unex-
pectedly upon his own resources. He
launched cut into journalism, and visited
the countries of Europe, though Italy
was his home as near as he possessed one.
He strayed to India and edited a news-
paper in the land of the Hindoos. He
took pleasure in its editorial columns to
blackguard theosophy and Madam Blav-
atsky, also the doctrine of reincarnation.
	This enterprise proving unsuccessful,
he came to New York, writing his first
novel at Chister Place, then a final trip
to Italy, where he has since resided near
Sorrento, with his wife and children.
	The writer of the Saracenisca, said he
wrote a book in twenty-five days, broken
only by Sundays, of 150,000 words, and
that in his own manuscript, without the
aid of even a stenographer. This would
horrify Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, and
many others who think six months about
the right time. He says he manages it
by living in the open air, roughing it
among the mountains, and going long
trips with the sailors in their smacks.
	These three books have a charming
story running through them, making com-
plete pictures of patrician life in modern
Rome, and the economic conditions which
surround it. Beginning with Saracinesca,
through Saut Iliaco, to the just completed
Don Orsino, they detail the history of
one of the noblest and most ancient
houses of Roman nobility, namely the
“Saracinescas.”
	Almost without thinking, at the close
of reading these works we find that we
have lived, with one or two exceptions,
among the nobility, in ducal palaces, on
grand estates, and have attended “First
nights,” at Embassy balls. Being a Catho-
lic in religion, Mr. Crawford was in sym-


[Column 1]
pathy with the surroundings in Rome,
this afforded him a knowledge and an
open sesame to many things that must be
sealed books to Protestants. 
	Many of his characters are more or less
pictures of his friends. 
	These records taken together form
a brilliant and true explanation of Ro-
man society, and politics as they
existed in the last struggle of the Papal
power for supremacy. The first of the
series introduces us on the scene of that
conflict in the year 1865, when the great
Cardinal Antonelli and the Holy Office
were still all powerful in Rome, in the
exercise of their rights of espionage, when
says Mr. Crawford, the Second Empire
was in its glory. Mr. Emile Zola had
not written his “Assomeir,” Count Bis-
marck had just triumphed in his mon-
archy, Sadiwa and Sedan yet unfought,
Garabaldi had won Naples and had Cavnor
had said, “If we did for ourselves what we
did for Italy, we would be great scoun-
drels.” In the year 1865 people crossed
the Alps in carriages, and the Suez Canal
had not yet been opened; the first At-
lantic cable had not been laid, Pius X
reigned as the Holy See, Louis Napoleon
was the idol of the French, President
Lincoln had not been murdered—is any-
thing more needed to separate those
days from these?
	The estates in the country are pic-
turesque, with their great castles dating
back to the Dark Ages, and their feudal
laws. One American critic has said,
“Mr. Crawford has written the best and
the worst American novels, and they were
the “Saracinesca” and “An Ameri-
can Politician;” whether true or not,
he is certainly very dashing in style,
in method subject to no school, but show-
ing a most remarkable, romantic heritage. 
He is dignified as a lover, of which he
writes a generous share. Languages were
his passion at school, and what was his
surprise to read one of his own stories in
a Russian publication, and he says he en-
joyed it, too. At another time one ap-
peared in the Danish dialect, yet they
were published without his knowledge or
permission. They are read in almost all
European languages. He has produced
eighteen novels in ten years. He has a
natural eloquence and facility, which en-
ables him to write rapidly, his sentences
requiring but little revision. His periods
are pointed and brilliant, and have much
grace of rhythm. For instance, the fol-
lowing sketch of a valley in the lower
Himalayas: “The gulf that divides you
from the distant mountain, rises like a
huge bite, taken bodily out of the world
by some voracious god; far away rise
snow peaks, such as were not dreamed of
in your Swiss town; the bottomless val-
ley at your feet is misty and gloomy, with
blackness, streaked with mist, while the
peaks above shoot gladly to the sun,
and catch his broad side rays, like ma-
jestic white standards. Between you, as
you stand cautiously against the hill be-
hind you, and the wonderful background
far away in front, sails a strange vision,
scarcely moving, yet not still. A great
gold shield, sails steadily in vast circles,
sending back the sunlight in ivory
tints of burnished gold. The golden
eagle of the Himalayas, hangs in mid air,
a spot of polished metal to the eye, paus-
ing some time in the full blaze of reflec-
tion, as ages ago the sun and the moon
[-]tood still in the valley of the “Aialon,”

[Column 2]
too magnificent for description as he is too
dazzling to look at.”
	Of Mr. Crawford it may be said, some
of his observations, are so shrewd and
well said that they may almost rank as
aphorisms; for example: “Women like to
be understood before they speak, and the
grosser intellect of man, seldom more
than half understands them when they
have spoken.”
	“Can it be hard, he says, to get a wo-
man’s love,” then changes presently and
says, “Truly it is less easy than is supposed,
for the heart of a woman who does not
love, is like a desert, when the wind blows
over it, and there are neither tracks nor
land marks. And I am wandering in the
desert like a man seeking lost camels.”
From the story of “Khalea.”
	“What is a beautiful woman without
love?” he asks. 
	“She is like a garden wherein are all
kinds of rare flowers and much grass, and
deep shade, but in which a man cannot
live, because nothing grows there which
he can eat when he is hungry.”
	Sometimes he is good in dialogue, but
sometimes weak. By some authors he is
thought to be the most versatile and
vivacious of modern writers. 
	He is an American though born on
Italian soil. Any critical estimate of Mr.
Crawford’s rank, depends much on the 
cast of mind of the reader. 
	A polished man of the world his writ-
ings are free from jarring notes. His
style has personal quality and he possesses
the gift of throwing a romantic halo
around his personages, their speech is
crisp and bright, developing character
without strain or undue effort at wit. 
	Mr. Crawford must take a high rank
among modern novelists. He excels in
his description of the human heart. His
great breadth of view, keen intuitions
and artistic feelings, making his works of
interest and value, perfectly pure, with-
out taint of vulgarity or coarseness. 
