[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | February | Issue: 7 | Title: Great Events Transpiring | Author: Unknown]

GREAT EVENTS TRANSPIRING.
“Weigh well your part and do your best
Leave to your Maker all the rest.”

	Time flies so rapidly that one can
scarcely keep pace with it in any of the
walks of life, and not only time but the
material progress made in all directions
is startling to say the least, there are so
many movements springing up that it is
quite impossible to keep posted on all
that are essential to every day inter-
course with affairs. Events are hasten-
ing on as well, and it is a common say-
ing nowadays, to what does it all tend.
Surely the last days, when all things are
to be gathered into one are here. Proph-
ecies ancient and modern are being ful-
filled before our eyes, and yet men and wo-
men will not see the truth, or the signifi-
cance of these conditions that stare them
in the face.
	During the past year more great events
and perhaps even calamities have trans-
pired seemingly than in any year previ-
ous, it is said there are more people, even
so, yet there are more inventions and a
better understanding of the elements of
life, and motion and activity; but the
Lord is working among the nations and
will bring about His purposes, and He
will accomplish His designs among the
great and mighty ones of the earth, as
has been said by Him and His word is
sure. He will indeed make the weak to
confound the wise, and the wrath of man
to praise Him.
	The everlasting Gospel is spreading in
lands afar off and women too are taking
part in the establishment of truth among
the various nations. It is a satisfaction
to realize that  women can render valu-
able assistance in carrying the Gospel to
those who sit in darkness.
	It is glorious to contemplate how com-

[Column 2]
plete in every department the work of
salvation for the human family is, and
that women have part therein, even in
the Temples of the Lord. Most women
all down the ages have realized the great-
ness of motherhood, and history tells of
the greatest men who give honor to their
mothers, and we talk much and with
pride of the mothers of the race; but in
the Gospel, as revealed in this dispensa-
tion through the Prophet Joseph Smith
women have had avenues of activity and
of spiritual growth opened for them, such
as no other women at any period of time,
so far as is known, have had vouchsafed
to them.
	Are we as women of Zion aware of all
that it means to have such an organiza-
tion as the Relief Society, whereby hun-
dreds of women whose lot seemed cast in
desert places as it were, have been
cheered and enlightened through the
efforts made in coming out to meetings,
and the interchange of ideas, thought and
actual effort brought to bear reaching out
for betterment along the lines of attain-
ment; an upward tendency of the mind,
giving exhilaration to both mental and
physical progress as well as the spiritual
culture always being maintained in har-
mony with the growth of the mind and
body.
	It would be very difficult to estimate
what this one great masterful organiza-
tion has done for the women of this
Church, and not alone for them but
the whole world of mankind has been
awakened through the light revealed from
heaven and revelations given through the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	We are undoubtedly on the verge of
greater changes, greater events, and it
may be more startling phenomena than
ever before, and the wise and great
ones should be prepared, or at least take
warning by reading with an understand-
ing heart “the signs of the times.” The
days in which we are living, great as they
are, are pregnant with greater things;
and those who acknowledge God in all
things and worship Him in sincerity and
truth with His wisdom and providence
may be able to stand, although it will re-
quire not only obedience to divine laws
but the consecration of all one’s life and
talents to His service.


