[Literature: Alexander Pope by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England Lesson 14—Alexander Pope Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 20, 1951 A Perry Picture ALEXANDER POPE N the history of English literature few reputations have fluctuated more widely than Alexander Pope's.
From the age of twenty-five he was regarded by his own age as the Prince of English Poets, yet before his death in 1744 he engaged, and » was engaged in more literary and personal controversy than any other English writer.
During most of the two hundred years since his death his personal weaknesses have been blown so large as to obscure the considerable merits of both the man and his writings, yet next to Shakespeare he is probably quoted more than any other Englishman. 'Too often his stunted, misshapen body has had pictured as its counterpart a misshapen mind, aptly summarized by his enemies in the phrase, "the wicked wasp of Twickenham" (Twickenham, his estate on the Thames). Far too many critics and guardians of our literary heritage have yielded to the temptation to perpetuate this nineteenth-century emphasis on Pope, without themselves going to his works and evaluating them on their merits.
Granting that in his later satires Pope was_ personally spiteful, he was many other things as well.
Here as always, two wrongs do not make a right, and to deny his achievements by overemphasizing his shortcomings is to deny one LESSON DEPARTMENT of his most famous lines, which admittedly Pope did not practice, To err is human, to forgive, divine. In poetry, as in life, we find that which we seek.
Admitting his weaknesses, let us then search for compensating virtues which, in his own specialized area of literature, have never been rivalled, and which justify our mature attention. It is ironical, and not a little grim, that in 1688, the year of Pope's birth, the pro-Catholic King Charles II was forced from the throne by a bloodless revolution and replaced by William and Mary, whose eminent recommendation was_ their Protestant religious beliefs. Because Pope's father was a Catholic, he was taxed twice as much in his wholesale drapery business as were other, Englishmen, while young Alexander, along with all other Catholic youths, was barred from the universities as well as from all participation in politics.
While in maturity Pope was never a devout Catholic, his devotion to his staunch Catholic mother was one of the driving forces of his life.
Never did his family religion add to his popularity. When Pope was born, both his parents were past forty-five years of age.
From birth he had been small, sickly, and sensitive. A severe illness in his twelfth year so impaired his health that he was rarely free from physical pain during his life.
Scarcely more than four feet high, stooped, twisted with pain, Pope did not particularly appeal to the eye; instead, it was his luminous eyes that appealed, and his beautiful voice and sparkling wit. Physically 851 handicapped as he was, he relied on his skillful conversation and_ his considerable social graces to draw hosts of friends to him.
When he wrote, "Envy must own, I live among the great," he referred not only to the most famous artists, writers, and musicians, but to dukes, duchesses, counts, and ministers who felt honored to be asked to Twickenham, a gathering place for the great which was immortalized by those who enjoyed themselves there. 'T'hus is dispelled the myth that a satirist must first of all be bitter and mean in his personal life.
Friends can never be bought, and, with the exception of Addison, if Pope's enemies had even begun to approach the prominence and permanent achievement attained by his friends, we might then be more willing to blame than to praise.
Outwardly little happened in Pope's life.
Born in London, he was tutored, but largely self-educated, at home. At the retirement of his father the family moved to nearby Cheswick. Not long after his father's death he and his mother established themselves at 'T'wickenham, which he made famous not only for its hospitality but also for its beautiful formal gardens.
Pope spent extended visits with his distinguished friends, even as he entertained them in turn.
While he enjoyed a life-long friendship with a neighbor, Miss Martha Blount, he never married. In the realms of the mind, however, it was different.
Soon after recovering from his great illness at age twelve, Pope dedicated his life to achieving fame and fortune 852 through poetry. He was industrious in his self-training, and by the time he was seventeen he was accepted as a prodigy among the most brilliant of the coffee-house wits. At twenty-three he published "Essay on Criticism" (text, page 975), the first of three poems which established his literary reputation. In 1712, the following year, he wrote "The Rape of the Lock" (text, page 983), his most whimsically delightful work.
This was soon followed by "Windsor Forest," which, like his earlier works, was favorably received.
Soon he announced his plan to translate Homer's Iliad into heroic couplets and sell copies by subscription to wealthy patrons of culture.
During the next nine years he worked on translations of Homer. So closely had he fulfilled the desires of his contemporaries that from these translations he became independently wealthy, the first English poet to become self-sustaining; of this fact Pope was always most proud. In 1728 appeared his "Dunciad," a brilliant satire on dullness in letters and scholarship, in which he attacks fellow-writers for their emptiness and pride.
Then folowed several satires, including the autobiographical "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" (text, page 1004), in which he justifies his use of satire. "Essay on Man" (text, page 995), his most profound, and one of his most-quoted works, appeared in 1733-4. The Neo-Classical Age was at its height during the productive years of Pope. Reason, nature, classicism, and correctness were the 'penetration,  guiding principles of the cultivated classes; we find them all throughout Pope's work, but particularly emphasized in his "Essay on Criticism" (text, page 975), written at the beginning of his career to state the literary techniques and goals which he believed should be emulated.
While the ideas herein are not original, Pope has combined them into a fresh pattern and into finished, pomted heroic couplets which first brought him fame as a great technician in English poetry. In these qualities he has never been exceled. Always Pope was searching for precisely the proper word to express the exact shade of meaning he wished to convey; that he was eminently successful 'is to be seen in such well-known lines as the following, which have the direct the sharp brilliance which is Pope's trade mark: A little learning is a dangerous thing; Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring: There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain, And drinking largely sobers us again. (II:215-218, text, page 978) True wit is nature to advantage dressed, What oft was thought, but ne'er so well expressed. (II:297-298, text, page 979) Words are like leaves; and where cy most abound, Much fruit of sense beneath is rarely found. (II: 309-311, text, page 979) But true expression, like the unchanging sun, | Clears and improves whate'er it shines upon, It gilds all objects, but it alters none. (II:315-317, text, page 979) LESSON DEPARTMENT Regard not then if wit be old or new, But blame the false, and value still the true. (II:406-407, text, page 981) We think our fathers fools, so wise we grow; Our wiser sons, no doubt, will think us so. (II:438-439, text, page 981) Be thou the first true merit to defend, His praise is lost, who stays till all commend. (11:474-475, text, page 982) Good-nature and good-sense must ever join; To err is human, to forgive, divine. (II:524-525, text, page 982) All seems infected that the infected spy, As all looks yellow to the jaundiced eye. (lI:558-559, text, page 983) The couplets quoted below might well have been written for those who find the couplet dull. How skillfully he has done what he suggests: Let the sound of the words echo the sense.
Here again we must remember that the couplets should not be read by a metronome nor in a sing-song manner. Instead, the speed, the volume, the timbre of voice should be varied as the sense demands.
What could be more langorous than the second line of this couplet? It demands a slow, emphasized reading: A needless Alexandrine ends the song. That, like a wounded snake, drags its slow length along. (lI:356-357, text, page 980) Note how exactiy "sound echoes sense' in the following: Soft is the strain when Zephyr gently blows, And the smooth stream in smoother numbers flows; 853
But when loud surges lash the sounding shore, The hoarse, rough verse should like the torrent roar: When Ajax strives some rock's vast weight to throw, The line too labors, and the words move slow; (lI:366-371, text, page 980) In lines 189-200, amid Pope's usual condensed brilliance, we find a cleanness and an elevated tone which presents Pope at his best. According to Samuel Johnson, whose critical insight is often to be trusted, lines 225-232 comprise one of the best similies in the language. | The theme of this poem is to achieve correctness by following nature, or the ancient writers, since "Nature and Homer lare] the same." Thus he states his own critical standards, which he followed so successfully as to please a most critical, classical-loving England. Of basic importance to students of the eighteenth century is "The Essay on Man" (text, page 995), a patchwork of philosophic doctrines characteristic of his age. Of the many brilliant statements of the beliefs of his day the following are examples: All are but parts of one stupendous whole Whose body Nature is, and God the soul. (I:267-268, text, page 999) One truth is clear, W hatever is, is night., (I:294, text, page 999) Know then thyself, presume not God to scan, The proper study of mankind is man. (II:1-2, text, page 999 ) [Man]... The Glory, jest, and riddle of the world! (11:18, text, page 999) 854
Yet it also contains the familiar Hope springs eternal in the human breast: Man never is, but always to be blest... (I:95-96, text, page 996) Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then, pity, then embrace. (V:217-220, text, page 1002) The progressive pattern of the poem's reasoning is difficult if not impossible to follow, but many of the passages -are brilliantly stated, nonetheless. The "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot," from Pope's first statement to his servant Shut, shut the door, good John! (fatigued, I said), Tie up the knocker, say I'm sick, I'm dead (text, page 1005) to the end, is intensely autobiographical. Plagued by would-be writers, he is Seized and tied down to judge, how wretched I! Who can't be silent, and who will not lie. (33-34, text, page 1005) Resentful that he is bothered by fools and dunces who must be told that they have no talent, he reassures the good writer, since A lash like mine no honest man shall dread. (303, text, page 1010) While herein he names names, and hurls insults, and is superior, we can also see his satirical brilliance, his courage, his wit, and above all his conviction that the  high standards of the literary craft must be upheld and never allowed to be trampled underfoot by those who cannot see what they do. Most enjoyable of all Pope's poems, and the highest triumph of his imagination, is "The Rape of the Lock" (text, page 983). Its form has been labeled "mock-epic," yet rather than mock the great epical style which Pope coveted, and realized that he did not possess, this poem might well be an affectionate tribute to the method of Homer and Virgil. It does, however, mock the light frivolities of "high society" in pictures and words that yield a pure, untrammeled delight. 'The poem is based on an actual happening, in which Lord Petre, without her permission, cut off a lock of Miss Arabella Fermor's hair. The two families quarreled over the incident, and Pope wrote the poem to humor them into a reconciliation. The sylphs are nothing less than charming in_ their playful seriousness, while Pope's skill at making Belinda's dressing table into an altar, the mock seriousness of the game of cards, the final triumphant stealing of the lock, and his final reconcilement of Belinda by pointing out that her lock is gone, yes, but only to have become immortal—all show ability with words and with organization of the whole. Reading aloud select portions of this work should prove to be a pleasant experience for everyone concerned. In his weakness, as in his strength, Pope is the accurate, sensitive representative of the age in which he lived. In a day when society was proud. Pope was exceedingly so.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Just as the heart of Neo-Classicism was to be found in reason, nature, and correctness, so these qualities dominated Pope's writing. To a public which distrusted sentiment and enthusiasm, Pope preached in his intellectualized poetry, and satirized the pettiness of his society. He attacked viciously and personally his literary and political enemies, sometimes almost entirely unprovoked, but more often only after a _ period of years, during which as many as fifty blasts were leveled against him and his religion, his personal deformity, his lack of scholastic background, his love of fame, and his touchiness. Pope defended himself magnificently, the brilliance of his replies vanquishing and transcending all personal opposition, and finally attaining the higher level 855 of defending literary excellence against cheapness and dullness. Pope was not a great man in his personal life. But, as a craftsman in English poetry, he remains the consummate artist. For power over language, for skill in manipulating the metrical line to fit his needs, for music and wit and brilliance and finish, Pope remains supreme. Questions for Discussion 1. Why did Pope's religion make his life more difficult? 2. Why is it important that we know of Pope's many illustrious and sincere friends? 3. Can we see any justifications in Pope's satires? 4. What is the great source of enjoyment in "The Rape of the Lock'? 5- Discuss principles of Neo-Classicism in Pope's writings (See text, page 741).