[President David O. McKay Named President of the Council of the Twelve by Mark E. Petersen]

President David O. McKay Named President of the Council of the Twelve Elder Mark E. Petersen Member of the Council of the Twelve HEN President David O. McKay stands before an audience, everyone present sits up with expectancy. 'They know they are about to hear from a master teacher. And as he teaches, he reaches into the innermost recesses of the hearts of his hearers, deeply impressing them. He teaches with love, kindness, and great understanding. His doctrine is clear and authoritative. His sincerity is beyond all question; his meaning is clear, and there is poetry in his teachings, and humor, and pathos.
There is much of artistry, too, for he paints pictures with words, using illustrative stories with marked effect.
Whether in the pulpit, in the homes of the saints, in his office, or while walking down the street, he is always a master teacher.
When he sits in council with his brethren, President McKay is an inspired adviser. His long experience in the Church provides an invaluable background. His devotion to the Lord merits the inspiration of the Spirit. He is wise and just, considerate and merciful. In him the Golden Rule is. A working principle. One side of a question is not enough. All phases must be known to permit wise and fair consideration. He is fearless in defense of right. To the repentant sinner  OTIS: PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY he is kind and forgiving, but there is no compromise with sin itself. As an executive in the highest ranking group in the Church, he does his work in a pattern of efficiency.
Full days and hours mean nothing to him.
From his boyhood he has worked hard and long. He likes it.
This was a by-product of his farm life at Huntsville, Utah. Then, too, he is a man of ex ceptional vision.
Forward looking always, he plans for the future. His grasp of the mission of the Church PRESIDENT DAVID O. MCKAY is all-inclusive. He gives it detailed attention. His interest reaches into every activity of the Church. Its progress means growth for the kingdom of God on earth, to which he gives undivided allegiance. His consideration for President George Albert Smith, whose counselor he is, and for President ] Reuben Clark, Jr., his associate in the counselorship, is remarkable, and demonstrates true greatness in the man. He contributes continuously to the spirit of unity which characterizes the First Presidency. His attitude toward the Twelve is like that of Peter or Paul of old. The modern Twelve are grateful for him. As a husband and father, he has surrounded himself with a true Latter-day Saint family. If every husband showed his wife the kindness and consideration extended by President McKay to his life's com- 803 panion, there would be no need for sorrow in any wife's heart. If every father provided for his children the high type of companionship and example given by President McKay to his family, the world would not fear for the rising generation.
Such is the man who became President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles at the last general conference of the Church. President McKay came into this position because of his great worthiness and through his rank as the senior apostle in the Church, following President George Albert Smith. His appointment meets with the universal satisfaction of the authorities and membership of the Church. All welcome it with gratitude.
Everywhere his people revere him for, like his file leader President Smith, he too, is an "apostle of love." ~—_o Peace, as on the Hills Dorothy J]. Roberts I long for heart as was the shepherd's heart who, guarding The small gray mounds that were his sleeping flock, Lay still, his back against a sheltering rock, And received the sudden glory of the song. Peace, as on the hills, was in his breast, Ready for the angel voice, to pour The glad, white message, the celestial score Into the vessel.
Fashioned by his faith. I long for heart so pure it need not search And comb the continents of earth for light. I long for thought, so quiet that the night Would part again with carol and with star. ~ Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Appointed Acting President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles Henry A. Smith Member, Deseret News Editorial Staff, and Counselor in Pioneer Stake Presidency ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING' SMITH ARRYING on in the tradition of his forebears who, before him, were high in the leadership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith was set apart October 5, 1950, as acting president of the Council of the Twelve. He had been sustained to this position by the general conference five days earlier.
This new assignment came to Elder Smith by reason of his seniority among the apostles. He was set apart to this position in the Salt Page 804
Lake Temple by his immediate senior, President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, who was also sustained and set apart as the President of the Council of the Twelve.
Thus new responsibility came to Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, who for forty years, has been one of the Council of the 'Twelve.
These years have been filled with responsibility and new assignments. 'They have earned him a_ reputation among his associates for industry and leadership.
Recognized as an outstanding authority on Church doctrine and history, his pen and voice have been prolific and loud in expounding the principles of the gospel. Elder Smith's life-long campaign for truth and uncompromising fight against sin give him the outward appearance of severity which hides the true man, tender in his feelings toward his fellow men; sympathetic, and possessed of a great capacity for love and compassion.
This is a side of Elder Smith that is most revealed to those who know him best—who have earned his confdence and respect.
Thus knowing him they delight in his association and companionship. His large devoted family are a tribute to Elder Smith in the lives ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH they live and the service they give to the Church.
There have been eleven sons and daughters. One son, Lewis, was a victim of an African plane crash during World War II. All five of his sons, including Lewis, have filled missions for the Church. All eleven children have been faithful and devoted to the Church; all have been in the Salt Lake 'Temple. No son ever had a more ardent supporter in his athletic career than Milton "Mitt" Smith, now a University of Utah football star. Elder Smith has an interest also in baseball. As chairman of the board of trustees of Brigham Young University, he is today one of the spearheads in the current Church-wide fund drive for the school's new fieldhouse. Elder Smith was born in Salt Lake City, July 19, 1876. His father was President Joseph F. Smith, who in 1901 became the sixth president of the Church. His mother was Julina Lambson Smith. His grandfather was Patriarch Hyrum Smith, the martyred brother of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He was carefully trained for a long life of service to the Church by a noble father and loving, kindly mother, who reared him in a true Latter-day Saint home where the highest virtues prevailed.
Prepared early for such service, Elder Smith has held many prominent positions in the Church in addition to the apostleship to which he was ordained in April 1910. He is at present Church Historian and Recorder, beginning a career in the Church historian's office as a clerk in 1901, following his return from the British Mission. He is presi- 805 dent of the Genealogical Society of the Church, to which position he was named in 1934. His service with this society dates back to his appointment as secretary and director in 1907. Elder Smith has served as a counselor and then as president of the Salt Lake Temple, and since 17 he has been a member of the Church Board of Education.
This listing can of necessity give but a few of the many assignments that have been his in the forty years since he became a General Authority. He has traveled widely throughout the Church in his service as an apostle. In the spring of 1939, he, accompanied by his wife, went to Europe to tour the various missions and meet in conference with the mission presidents and _ consider problems pertaining to missionary work.
While there touring the West German Mission the Nazi forces invaded Poland, thus bringing on the great struggle, worldwide, commencing in 1939.
This necessitated the evacuation af our missionaries who were serving in Europe.
This took several weeks.
Acting on orders from the First Presidency, Elder Smith successfully and safely, with the help of mission presidents, got the entire group, comprising 697 missionaries, back on American soil. His appointment as acting President of the Council of the Twelve, brings to a busy, capable man, additional responsibilities which will receive the same energetic, efficient direction that has characterized his every effort as one of the General Authorities of the Church. Delbert Leon Stapley, - Sixty-Seventh Apostle Camilla Eyring Kimball "RUT seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." Elder Delbert L. Stapley, newly appointed member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, signified his willingness to follow this admonition when he declared: "This call to the Council is the first call of my life, and all my personal interests are now of only secondary importance and _ consideration." It was on December 11, 1896 in Mesa, Arizona, that the boy Delbert was born, and here he received his early training in school and Church activity.
Following the filling of a mission in the Southern States, under Elder Charles A. Callis, he enlisted in the Marine Corps to serve his country in World War I. As president and general manager of the O. S. Stapley Company, founded by his father, he has been eminently successful in the business world. His civic activities have brought him the respect of the citizens of Maricopa County and the State of Arizona.
Years of consistent and faithful Church service and outstanding leadership ability are requisites to the successful performance of this high calling to the apostleship.
Seventeen years as superintendent of the Maricopa Stake Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, and thirty years of active service in various Boy Scout positions from Page
806 DELBERT L. STAPLEY scout leader to national representative, qualify him to now become a Church-wide leader of youth. On February 27, 1930, he was chosen as counselor in the newly created Phoenix Stake presidency, and in December 1947 he was sustained as the stake president. Enthusiasm, efficiency, and faithful attention to detail have made his leadership outstanding. "I deeply appreciate my good wife for the attitude she took when this call came, and I know that in this work if it were not for the good women the men could. Not succeed DELBERT LEON STAPLEY, SIXTY-SEVENTH APOSTLE 807? In these high callings.' tion from Elder Stapley's first message from the Tabernacle pulpit indicates his high regard for his wife, Ethel Davis Stapley, to whom he was sealed in the Salt Lake Temple January 14, 1918, the ceremony being performed by, President George Albert Smith, then a member of the Council of the Twelve.
They have two daughters, Berdine and Phyllis, a son Orley S., and four beloved grandchildren.
Leaving their lovely new home in Arizona and the many life-long friends as well as relatives, to make This quota- - a new home in Salt Lake City, will not be done without heartache, but people of their caliber are not looking for the easy road, but always for the opportunity for greater service. 'They will look forward, not backward. At fifty-three years of age, Elder Stapley brings into the councils of the General Authorities of the Church, a strength of character, a breadth of vision, and a background of experience and accomplishment that will be of great worth to these councils and to the members of the Church throughout the world. >_< She Child and the Sree Katherine F. Larsen Here rises the fir, Tall, mysterious, Redolent of forest And the legendary time; Frosted with tinsel, Glass bells and balls, Shimmering strands and flashing baubles, Many-hued as a rainbow.. Here, on the green, spreading, spice-sweet branches Hang tenuous dreams In the bright, bold colors of childhood. The young child gazes, chin-tipped; He is all eyes Into which the colors repeat and repeat Back into his pliant mind The mark and mold of enchantment. He does not yet think, he can only feel What Christmas is And meanings seep through trinkets, indistinct, Irrelevant as tinsel to ice, As colored glass to fire. Thus, through the medium of the fairy-tale tree, Tricked out with baubles, Pncked with lights, And tantalizingly pranked with sweets, Here to his child's mind, Reflected and refracted from the mymiad facets, Must glow The wholeness and the mystery of love.