[The Theology Lesson as It Affects Testimony by Leone G. Layton]

theology program. Is Diges—She Theology Lesson as Lt Affects Sestimony Leone G. Layton PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
Stated the teaching purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church as follows: The sole ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the divinity of the Christ and of the gospel, of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the restored gospel and of the Priesthood. We feel a special responsibility in the theology department in that on our day comes the testimony period. The theology class leader has opportunity through her preparation and presentation of lesson material to create an atmosphere conducive to the bearing of testimony, and to arouse in the sisters a desire to express their appreciation to their Heavenly Father for the blessings they enjoy.
Some of our younger sisters who have been reared in the Church feel that because they have never had any unusual spiritual experiences, they have no testimony worthy of expression. In her presentation of lesson material the class leader can help them see testimony in its true light. She can place emphasis upon the principles which govern its growth. President Joseph F.
Smith relates the instance of one of his sons who, on being called on a mission, expressed doubt as to how strong a testimony he could bear. President Smith replied in effect, "You believe in being honest and virtuous and in doing good to all men, -do you not?" "Why, yes." "Well, this is part of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Bear testimony, my son, to what you do believe and know, and other gospel truths will unfold to strengthen your testimony." I remember a simple question asked by a visiting teacher message leader in connection with a lesson. "What would your life be without the gospel?
Have you ever thought?"
That question has been 816 the means of strengthening my testimony through the years because it caused me to think deeply. Our lessons can be simple stories of the life and ministry of our Savior, leaving us with the pleasant feeling of having heard them once again, or they can, through your direction and guidance, bring us to a knowledge of the meaning of that  life and ministry every day of our lives. The teacher who prepares her lesson to meet that responsibility will be eager to finish her lesson on time so that she may share in the fine spiritual experience of testimony with her sisters.
That we may arise to our opportunities as Relief Society class leaders lS my prayer. — <i> Digest— My Sestimony Viola B. Parkinson Ensign Stake éORHE Lord requires humility, "but not ignorance" was the remark that President Joseph F.
Smith made upon one occasion when speaking of a testimony and its use. How my testimony has been strengthened by this course of study, "The Life and Ministry of the Savior," is the particular subject about which I have been asked to speak. I think it has been strengthened in at least four ways. First, by diligent study and earnest prayer that I might know for myself that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of mankind. Second, by striving to share that which I know and feel with others. Third, by encouraging a free exchange of ideas and thoughts, and by listening to the testimonies of other women. Fourth, by seeing the fruits of our labors, in my own intellectual and spiritual growth and in the intellectual and spiritual growth of our women throughout the stake.
Speaking of the first, study and prayer, I love Jesus more today, because I know more about him and his plan of salvation.
Humility has entered my soul as ignorance has fled.
Coming to the second point, my testimony has been strengthened by striving to share that which I know and feel with others.
Every true teacher must help others to follow the Christ. Third, I have often been amazed, how, after long and careful hours of study, and kneeling and asking my Father in heaven to enlighten my mind and soul, that upon going to class and visiting around in the wards and listening to the discussions and the testimonies of. Our sisters, they could so strengthen me in my understanding and in my testimony. It has taught me humility and the beauty of the doctrine "Ye must help one another." And now the fruits of our labors, point number four, because faith without works is dead. The vital question is, "Has my life been changed by this course of study?
Have the lives of my leaders and their class members been touched, been motivated?" I believe that this RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE study of the Master and his teachings has changed the pattern of many lives. Praying, studying, sharing, applying.
This has been the challenge of the theology lessons to me. A deep and sure testimony that 817
Jesus is the Christ, and that the gospel which he gave is the way to exaltation and eternal life, has been my reward. I pray that this testimony may always abide with me and with all of you. Diges— Lo, J Am With You Alway, Mary G. Judd Chairman, Visiting Teachers Committee OR the third consecutive year, the general board is placing in the hands of a vast army of visiting teachers—over 40,000 in all—messages consisting of admonitions and other significant statements of our Savior. 'The object of delivering specific messages in the home is primarily for the good of those visited. But none of us can give inspiration to others without receiving inspiration ourselves. Christ's promise, "Lo, I am with you alway," suggests that, in our efforts, he will sustain us with his power. Yet this promise, like all others he made, cannot be fully realized unless we comprehend that 'Christ was indeed divine. It is about this particular phase of spiritual development that I wish to speak.