[My Testimony by Viola B. Parkinson]

my testimony to the work of Relief Society.
There is nothing except the work which we do in our own homes which will bring us the blessings we may gain through our devotion and laboring mightily for Relief Society. And it is my prayer that each one of us here will realize the two-fold objectives in Relief Society which will give us knowledge and intelligence, and that each one here will go home with a determination to see that the lessons in Relief Society are taught diligently, and to see that all sisters are given the opportunity to labor mightily for the Lord and for our own saving knowledge and intelligence. And this I pray. ~><- Diges—She Culmination of Our Sheology Course Ethel C. Smith Chairman, Theology Committee A? We enter the concluding year of the course "The Life and Ministry of the Savior' we want to express our appreciation for the privilege of using as our text the book Jesus the Christ which is a part of the priceless legacy left us by Elder James E. 'Talmage. We want to acknowledge the fine work of Elder Don B.
Colton in adapting the text for our use as Relief Society lessons. We are grateful to him for the sweet spirit of co-operation and love for the «" work which he has shown at all times in performing this service. We appreciate the work done by you stake theology leaders and by the class leaders in the various wards of your stakes in preparing, presenting, and applying these lessons. To those of you who are new in the theology department this year, may we suggest that you study the preceding lessons and the complete text to help you catch the spirit of the course and to get the necessary background for the com- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ing lessons. We urge that you encourage new ward class leaders to do this also. The objective of this course can be beautifully and briefly stated here in words spoken by President George F. Richards: I would like, if possible, for us to become better acquainted with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and his life's work, that, knowing him better, we might love him more, and loving him more, 815 serve him better; and thereby obtain eternal life, God's greatest gift to man. As this year's lessons culminate our course, so the testimony period is a culmination of the theology day each month. We should like to have every member of every theology class experience the joy that comes from participation in this important part of the theology program. Is Diges—She Theology Lesson as Lt Affects Sestimony Leone G. Layton PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
Stated the teaching purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church as follows: The sole ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the divinity of the Christ and of the gospel, of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the restored gospel and of the Priesthood. We feel a special responsibility in the theology department in that on our day comes the testimony period. The theology class leader has opportunity through her preparation and presentation of lesson material to create an atmosphere conducive to the bearing of testimony, and to arouse in the sisters a desire to express their appreciation to their Heavenly Father for the blessings they enjoy.
Some of our younger sisters who have been reared in the Church feel that because they have never had any unusual spiritual experiences, they have no testimony worthy of expression. In her presentation of lesson material the class leader can help them see testimony in its true light. She can place emphasis upon the principles which govern its growth. President Joseph F.
Smith relates the instance of one of his sons who, on being called on a mission, expressed doubt as to how strong a testimony he could bear. President Smith replied in effect, "You believe in being honest and virtuous and in doing good to all men, -do you not?" "Why, yes." "Well, this is part of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Bear testimony, my son, to what you do believe and know, and other gospel truths will unfold to strengthen your testimony." I remember a simple question asked by a visiting teacher message leader in connection with a lesson. "What would your life be without the gospel?
Have you ever thought?"
That question has been 816 the means of strengthening my testimony through the years because it caused me to think deeply. Our lessons can be simple stories of the life and ministry of our Savior, leaving us with the pleasant feeling of having heard them once again, or they can, through your direction and guidance, bring us to a knowledge of the meaning of that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 life and ministry every day of our lives. The teacher who prepares her lesson to meet that responsibility will be eager to finish her lesson on time so that she may share in the fine spiritual experience of testimony with her sisters.
That we may arise to our opportunities as Relief Society class leaders lS my prayer. — <i> Digest— My Sestimony Viola B. Parkinson Ensign Stake éORHE Lord requires humility, "but not ignorance" was the remark that President Joseph F.
Smith made upon one occasion when speaking of a testimony and its use. How my testimony has been strengthened by this course of study, "The Life and Ministry of the Savior," is the particular subject about which I have been asked to speak. I think it has been strengthened in at least four ways. First, by diligent study and earnest prayer that I might know for myself that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of mankind.