[Helen Woodruff Anderson Appointed to General Board of Relief Society by Mary Grant Judd]

Helen Woodruff Anderson Appointed to General Board of Relief Society Mary Grant Judd. Member, Relief Society General Board ON September 26, 1950, Helen Woodruff Anderson was appointed a member of the general board of Relief Society, and was sustained in her new position at the October semi-annual conference of the Church.
Characterized by unusual executive ability, Sister Anderson has made many outstanding contributions to the work of Relief Society. Her earliest experience was gained under the direction of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, when she worked in the general Relief Society offices in charge of employment. She next served for several years as a visiting teacher, then as a member of the stake board in charge of social science, a stake counselor, and, finally, at the time of her call to the general board, she was serving as Relief Society president of Big Cottonwood Stake. She also served with marked success as assistant to Sister Ella P. Bennion, chairman of the Relief Society presidents' department of the Jordan Valley Welfare Region.
There can be no doubt that the women of Big Cottonwood Stake will be loath to part with their president, for she has many outstanding characteristics which have endeared her to them. She possesses true humility, never holding herself aloof from those with whom she asPage
808 HELEN W. ANDERSON sociates. On occasion she exhibits a sparkling sense of humor. In reviewing a successful life, such as Helen Woodruff Anderson's, it is always revealing to trace influences which have contributed to that success.
First of all must be mentioned that she comes of a line of valiant pioneers. Helen's paternal grandfather, President Wilford Woodruff, was known for his great faith and humility. In fact, in the early days of the Church, he was given the significant title of "Wilford, the Faithful." Helen's father, Abraham O. Woodruff, fol- HELEN WOODRUFF ANDERRSON lowing in the footsteps of his noble parent, was a valiant champion of righteousness. He was one of the youngest men ever chosen to be an apostle in our day. Her.
Mother was Helen Winters, a descendant also of faithful and devoted pioneer forebears.
These young parents had fine testimonies of the gospel and a desire to live its principles. However, before they had had the opportunity of directing the lives of their children to any appreciable extent, a great tragedy took both of the parents from their little ones.
While on a Church assignment in the City of Mexico, they both died with the dread disease of small pox. Anna _ Reosenkilde, head nurse for many years of the Primary Children's Hospital, cared for them during the several years when their kindly grandmother, Sister Emma S. Woodruff, made them a part of her household. 809
Following the death of their grandmother, the children were welcomed into the home of their aunt and uncle, President and Sister Heber J. Grant. There can be little doubt that the precepts and example of that kindly home had a marked influence on the character development and ideals of Helen W. Anderson. In May 1925, she married Alex P. Anderson, a former missionary in the New Zealand Mission, and bishop of the Waterloo Ward for thirteen years. The Andersons have one son and four daughters: a married daughter, Bonnie A. Dimmitt; Barbara, who is_ teaching school; Woodruff ("Woodie"), a student at the University of Utah; and Judith and Lynda, in grade school. The Anderson home is one of beauty, comfort, and refinement, where spirituality is combined with unusual friendliness. >