[Gaining Knowledge and Intelligence by Marianne C. Sharp]

gaining knowledge and intelligence, for the Prophet Joseph said, "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge," RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and the Lord declares, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." Since, then, knowledge and intelligence are the doorway into eternal life, how zealous we here today should be as Relief Society officers to see that we are ever gaining knowledge and intelligence. All the free time at our disposal is not too much to devote to diligent study for our greatest possible advancement. Then, how careful we should be that we do not fritter away our time in unfruitful pursuits, but that we devote our time to study, thereby to gain knowledge and intelligence. And how difficult it is as mothers for us to study. Not for us the ivory tower nor the secluded cloister. We must study while our family's affairs proceed normally, with one interruption to care for a child, and another one to stir the pot on the fire, and a third one to answer the doorbell or telephone. 'Then how necessary it is that we should choose the right things when we study. And rit should we study? In section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord gives us a list of some things which we should teach one another. It says: And I give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom.
Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of 813 the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms. GST ERS, do you see how closely the subject matter which we are studying in Relief Society parallels, in part, the words of the Lord as to what we should study? How grateful we should be as Relief Society members to have the opportunity to study these lessons which are approved by the brethren. And what a responsibility is ours, those of us who are here in this building this morning, to see that we are overseeing and encouraging and exhorting the sisters to teach them diligently one to another. But sisters, all the diligent study in the world is not sufficient for us to gain knowledge and intelligence, for we are told not only to gain it through diligence, but also through obedience.
Obedience to what?
Obedience to the commandments of God, and we will gain knowledge and intelligence in this way which can be gained in no other way. All the studying of academic learning in the world, and even the studying of righteous principles, won't give us the advantage unless we are obedient. As Paul said, "And though... I understand... All knowledge... And have not charity, I am nothing" (I Cor. 13:2). And what are the commandments of God?
Nearly two thousand years ago this same question was put to the Savior, who answered: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself (Matt. 22:37-39). 814 By obedience to these commandments, sisters, we will gain knowledge and intelligence. Brigham Young said, "To practice the gospel requires time, faith, the heart's affections, and a great deal of labor." Sisters, are you not gaining knowledge and intelligence through your labors in clothing the naked, preparing food for the hungery, nursing the sick, comforting the sorrowing, and pouring balm_ on the disconsolate heart? Is that not your great work in this Relief Society?
Does not Relief Society then give you the opportunity, both through diligence and obedience, to earn knowledge and _ intelligence? The Lord knew the kind of organization which was needed upon this earth to perfect his daughters. And what a responsibility is ours to see that every Latter-day Saint woman will be given this opportunity of gaining knowledge and intelligence. And the Lord is never in our debt.  As we work diligently for the good of our sisters, as we labor for the good of ourselves, he pours forth saving knowledge and intelligence on our heads. Sisters, I would like to bear my testimony to the work of Relief Society.
There is nothing except the work which we do in our own homes which will bring us the blessings we may gain through our devotion and laboring mightily for Relief Society. And it is my prayer that each one of us here will realize the two-fold objectives in Relief Society which will give us knowledge and intelligence, and that each one here will go home with a determination to see that the lessons in Relief Society are taught diligently, and to see that all sisters are given the opportunity to labor mightily for the Lord and for our own saving knowledge and intelligence. And this I pray. ~><- Diges—She Culmination of Our Sheology Course Ethel C. Smith Chairman, Theology Committee A? We enter the concluding year of the course "The Life and Ministry of the Savior' we want to express our appreciation for the privilege of using as our text the book Jesus the Christ which is a part of the priceless legacy left us by Elder James E. 'Talmage. We want to acknowledge the fine work of Elder Don B.
Colton in adapting the text for our use as Relief Society lessons. We are grateful to him for the sweet spirit of co-operation and love for the «" work which he has shown at all times in performing this service. We appreciate the work done by you stake theology leaders and by the class leaders in the various wards of your stakes in preparing, presenting, and applying these lessons. To those of you who are new in the theology department this year, may we suggest that you study the preceding lessons and the complete text to help you catch the spirit of the course and to get the necessary background for the com- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ing lessons. We urge that you encourage new ward class leaders to do this also. The objective of this course can be beautifully and briefly stated here in words spoken by President George F. Richards: I would like, if possible, for us to become better acquainted with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and his life's work, that, knowing him better, we might love him more, and loving him more, 815 serve him better; and thereby obtain eternal life, God's greatest gift to man. As this year's lessons culminate our course, so the testimony period is a culmination of the theology day each month. We should like to have every member of every theology class experience the joy that comes from participation in this important part of the theology program. Is Diges—She Theology Lesson as Lt Affects Sestimony Leone G. Layton PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
Stated the teaching purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church as follows: The sole ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the divinity of the Christ and of the gospel, of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the restored gospel and of the Priesthood. We feel a special responsibility in the theology department in that on our day comes the testimony period. The theology class leader has opportunity through her preparation and presentation of lesson material to create an atmosphere conducive to the bearing of testimony, and to arouse in the sisters a desire to express their appreciation to their Heavenly Father for the blessings they enjoy.
Some of our younger sisters who have been reared in the Church feel that because they have never had any unusual spiritual experiences, they have no testimony worthy of expression. In her presentation of lesson material the class leader can help them see testimony in its true light. She can place emphasis upon the principles which govern its growth. President Joseph F.
Smith relates the instance of one of his sons who, on being called on a mission, expressed doubt as to how strong a testimony he could bear. President Smith replied in effect, "You believe in being honest and virtuous and in doing good to all men, -do you not?" "Why, yes." "Well, this is part of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Bear testimony, my son, to what you do believe and know, and other gospel truths will unfold to strengthen your testimony." I remember a simple question asked by a visiting teacher message leader in connection with a lesson. "What would your life be without the gospel?
Have you ever thought?"
That question has been 816 the means of strengthening my testimony through the years because it caused me to think deeply. Our lessons can be simple stories of the life and ministry of our Savior, leaving us with the pleasant feeling of having heard them once again, or they can, through your direction and guidance, bring us to a knowledge of the meaning of that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 life and ministry every day of our lives. The teacher who prepares her lesson to meet that responsibility will be eager to finish her lesson on time so that she may share in the fine spiritual experience of testimony with her sisters.
That we may arise to our opportunities as Relief Society class leaders lS my prayer.