["Unto the Least of These" by Margaret C. Pickering]

least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me (Matt. 25:35-40). During the 108 years of Relief Society's existence, compassionate service—the tender, love-inspired ministrations which women, by their very natures, are peculiarly fitted to perform, has been an integral part of its program. Emphasis has been placed on various aspects of this service over the years according to the needs of the times. Up until the time the Welfare Plan was inaugurated, Relief Society continued to directly supply some of the temporal needs of the saints under the direction of the bishops. During the last decade, however, Relief Society's efforts have been transferred from directly supplying temporary needs to assisting in producing Welfare assignments and to more extensively ministering to the 

832  spiritual hungers of women. All this is a testimony to me of the divine origin of this organization— that it is set up to serve how, when, and where it is most needed. It does not do much good to talk about such big things as "humanity,' "democracy," and _ the "brotherhood of man" unless we can bring them down and apply them to our next door neighbor, as that is where international amity and the brotherhood of man begin. The Prophet Joseph said at one of the early meetings: "Let your labors be confined mostly to those around you in your own circle." While Relief Society officially records only those visits and services authorized by the president, it is about these services "over and above the call of duty" that I speak specifically.
There are in every neighborhood many aged, sick, lonely, or disturbed people who lack for no temporal needs, but they need friendly interest, assurance, peace of mind. No one is better fitted to minister to their needs than friendly, faithful Latter-day Saint neighbors. President Spafford has referred to compassionate service as the "heartbeat of Relief Society—the kind word, the ray of hope, the warm handclasp." It is the constant stimulation of this heartbeat through sincerity and frequency of application that increases the circulation of hope, cheer, brotherly love, and faith in God in the world today, and produces a warm, peaceful glow in the souls of men in exact proportion to the amount of stimulation applied.
What about the aged women in your neighborhood — some who don't see too well, who would appreciate a cheerful visit, an hour of reading or letter writing, or being escorted to Church or to an entertainment?
What about the homebound for whom you might run an errand or do some shopping?
What about the mother in your neighborhood whose son is called to' war and who is depressed, or the young wife whose husband has entered' military service and she is confused and upset about the future; or the newcomer who feels strange and lonely, one of our own converts from a foreign land having difficulty with our language and customs, and needs them interpreted?
What about the chronically ill to whom a smiling face and a fresh viewpoint would give new hope; a child confined to bed for a long period, to whom a cookie, or some simple dessert would bring happiness; what about staying occasionally with the children of a neighbor who seldom gets out because she cannot afford a baby sitter? 'There are endless opportunities all around us to demonstrate sisterly love if we but open our eyes to them.
Compassionate service benefits and blesses both the one who performs it and the one who receives it. In these times, there is great need for an acceleration of our compassionate services, not only as a means of encouraging and aiding our neighbors, but to increase our faith and quell our own fears, so that in following the example of our Savior we shall be strengthened and can say with David of old, "What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee."
That we may do this is my prayer. Hal Rumel SNOW ON THE PEAKS AT ALTA, UTAH Silences LaVerne ]. Stallings I have known a purple silence Hung with sunset fires Resting far beyond a canyon's ledge. I have languished in the cool, green silence Where a ferny wood Grows beside a tranquil water's edge.
Danger treks have lured me on Through sunswept desert lands, With tawny, golden silence over all; And I have pressed my face upon A crystal windowpane To watch the silver-silent rains that fall.
Quietudes of gray slow-moving On a sea's new dawn Have stirred me from the stilling deeps of night; But now I come to a high Norn world Where softly gleaming snows Cover all the silences in white. Page 833
Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, December 1 and December 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" CHRISTMAS IS COMING: That Christmas is coming is everywhere apparent in the donning of the holiday attire by merchants and shop-keepers. C. R.
Savage at the Art Gallery, the genial friend of the widow and the orphan, and the children and old folks and every body in general, is well supplied with every thing in the art line. His windows are always dressed in an attractive style at such times and no pains are spared in catering to the public taste in the way of art and literature....
Above everything else let us all remember on this day of days the poor, the sick, the lonely and bereaved ones, the widow and the fatherless and carry with us everywhere, and scatter at home and abroad not only temporal gifts suited to our means, but the good will and charity that seasons good cheer. The love that surpasses all other love and makes us - like unto Him whose advent we celebrate-—Editorial SOLITUDE AND ITS ADVANTAGES: "The law of compensation governs earth."
Even one's disadvantages may result in her favor. No condition of life has been more lamented than loneliness, and yet loneliness has advantages which cannot be gainsayed.
Chiefest among these the opportunity which it gives for the accumulation of force. All work depends upon the expenditure of energy and that energy in some occult way grows from processes of life.
Happy lives have no history. The heart thrown back on itself sings the enduring song.—The Nightingale CHRISTMAS BELLS Dear are the sounds of the Christmas chimes In the land of the ivied towers, And they welcome the dearest of festival times In this Western world of ours!
Bright on the holly and mistletoe bough, The English firelight falls, And bright are the wreathed evergreens now That gladden our own home walls. And hark! The first sweet note that tells The welcome of the Christmas bells. —Selected STORING GRAIN: A new method of storing grain is being introduced, which is as remarkable as the invention of ensilage pits for storage of fodder.
Steel tanks are filled with the grain, and by a suction pump the air is partly exhausted, and a quantity of carbonic acid gas is admitted. The valves being closed, the grain is expected to remain for years without decay, and not liable to be injured by weevils, so destructive in the vast elevators where grain is now stored.—Selected. COURTING SUNSHINE Dear and true and patient one, Well thy task is being done. Yet continue, be unmoved, Be thy course of heav'n approved, As thy life thus far hath been, Chaste and meek and free from sin. —L. L. G. Richards Page
834 BECAUSE of "a great love for the memory and efforts put forth by the pioneers of Grantsville," President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has had their adobe schoolhouse, built in 1861, restored and reconditioned. Asa boy President Clark attended the school, and his father taught in it. The low tuition was paid partly in kind. President Clark presented the building to Grantsville Stake during the town's centennial celebration. In the deed he requested that the building be used as a meeting place for women's civic and religious organizations. T'. The General Federation of Women's Clubs Triennial Convention in Boston (May 29 - June 2, 1950) Dorothy D. (Mrs. Hiram Cole) Houghton, was elected president of the organization, which was represented by delegates from many nations. Mrs.
Houghton succeeds Dorothea (Mrs. J. L. Blair) Buck, under whose leadership during the last triennium great progress has been made. HE staff of Georgia Neese Clark, United States Treasurer, consists entirely of men. Her very low expense account on an early political assignment, and the economy and money sense she continued to show are largely responsible for her climb to success.