[Ethel C. Smith Released as General Board Member]

Ethel C. Smith Released as General Board Member T is with keen regret that the general board on Wednesday, October 4, 1950, acted upon and voted the release of Ethel G.
Smith as a member of the general board.
During the three years which Sister Smith has served on the board, she has given devoted and careful attention to those duties which have been assigned to her. Her labors as chairman of the theology committee have always been characterized by a thoroughness and exactness to detail which have been praiseworthy. She has filled all other assignments given her with equal fidelity and ability. Sister Ethel Smith leaves the board with the warm affection of all the board members and with the hope that her health may improve when the arduous duties performed by general board members are no longer required of her.
With her great love for Relief Society, she will continue to serve Relief Society as her health and circumstances permit. + Where Shepherds KRnelt Margery S. Stewart Let me go back and kneel there Before the cave this night, And see upon the stable straw The glory and the light. For there are many paths that lead To goals I cannot see, But his is still the only path Of peace and purity. Let my heart kneel where shepherds knelt, Let my mind be as still As all their minds were, listening To angels on the hill.. And in the darkness crowding round, In a world gone blind and mad, Let heart and mind hold once again, The glory earth once had. {Ring m Your Christmas Cards Clara Laster pe the old year rings in the Christmas season, nearly everyone, regardless of age, ' receives a score of greeting cards.
Although many may be displayed with pride, because of the number others are quickly tossed into sccrap baskets.
During last year's Christmas season | had the privilege of entering a number of homes. It was a delight to see how my neighbors had used their cards to help carry out the gay season in decorations. One woman pinned her cards to the living-room drapes.
Picture her windows with curtains of greeting cards! In another home, there was a streamer of ribbon hanging from each picture. To these. Streamers, greeting cards were pinned. As I stood looking at the dangling cards, my eyes quickly found the one I had sent. It gave me a moment of happiness, to know that my card was appreciated enough to be used as a decoration.
There are a number of ways to use these tokens of remembrance to good advantage. In our home we used them to decorate our tree. My daughter took tape and fastened a corner of the card to a tinsel-draped limb. 'The remaining cards were placed under the glass of a low table. We never throw away our greeting cards. Our old ones, received the year before, are used to add color and delight to Christmas packages. We cut out the pictures and paste them on pasteboard, similar to that placed in the shirts at the laundry.
After pasting our pictures on the pasteboard, we cut them out again.
Then we bend a small part of the picture under and paste it on bright-colored packages.
With the use of crepe paper, we make lovely Christmas scenes. We use our old cards in other ways also. If my young daughter is having a party, we use cut-outs from greeting cards on the nut cups.
Once we used them for a jig-saw puzzle, thus tying an old game in with the Christmas season. At still another time, my daughter took jar lids and pasted cut-out scenes from cards on them, then placed them back into the nms which she painted different colors.
These went to the children of the neighborhood who used them for pictures to hang on the walls. Oh, there are many possibilities for using greeting cards, old and new.
They can be given to children in hospitals.
Even small children in your own neighborhood might enjoy them during the long cold days of winter. The point is, do not throw them away. The good will in which they were sent deserves to be passed along. A pile of Christmas cards, paste, scissors, tape, and a stapler, puts you well on the way to becoming original in the art of decorating. No matter who you are or where you live, you can make the season truly one of good will toward friends, if you remember to ring in those Christmas cards this year. Page 838
Old Year Grace Sayre The last day of the year has found the clock, The last faint ember on the hearth burns low, December, pausing, opens up the door; He dreads to go. But as he turns, a jubilant peal of bells Rings gaily out, beginning the New Year. But old December, weary, goes his way, He doesn't even hear! + &£& & & Communications Clarence Edwin Flynn A tear speaks every language, However strange the land, The customs, or the people, So does a kindly hand. A frown speaks any language, By any name or style, Without interpretation; So also does a smile. T+ ££ &F + What Ys Somorrow? Maude O. Cook It is a bud unblown, A song unsung, a road No feet have trod, that winds Toward a vast unknown. It is all yesterdays, And all todays in one, The balance sheet of time That brooks no more delays. It is a dream fulfilled, The essence of a life, The fragrance that remains When roses are distilled. Page