["The Child and the Tree," by Katherine F. Larsen,]

children would be seen on the streets with their little hand-drawn wagons gathering greens to be cooked for their dinners. 'hey would pick up pieces of wood, for fuel was scarce.
People were hungry.
People were cold. It was not easy to revive the former interest in Church work, for the seven years of war had changed the living standards and habits of the people.
Women had _ been drawn from their homes to do the work of men.
Children too young to work were frequently left at home to care for themselves and to await the return of father and mother. I need not tell you that many of the Relief Society organizations had ceased to function.
Many families had moved to other localities and their names were not on record. However, as soon as the missionaries began to arrive from Zion, a new impetus took hold of the Church members.
Gradually branches were reopened, and the outlined program introduced.
Bedding was very scarce.
Quilting soon became a project in most of the missions, but the sisters first had to be trained in the art of quilting.
Many said it couldn't be done, but it was amazing to. See the joy with which they showed us the quilts which they had made. In Denmark the missionaries pioneered and promoted this project.
Knitting and needlework have always engaged the women in the European: countries. It required considerable persuasion, however, to induce our sisters to knit for others besides their own family. War had left them with more or less of a dislike of other nations. I speak for thousands when I express thanks to the Relief Society in Zion for the large shipments of rugs, quilts, layettes, and bundles of clothing which arrived at the European ports at a moment when they were most needed. | In order to arrive at some idea of the needs, a questionnaire was sent out to the branches.
When these questionnaires were returned, it was found that most of the families needed children's clothing, boys' suits, underwear, and_stockings. 'lo meet the requirements of sizes, much remodeling was neces- _ sary.
Sweaters had to be unraveled and converted into stockings.
Eight thousand hours were spent in the West German Mission in ripping over garments which could not be used as they were. | In the branches wherever I went: I found the sisters anxious to learn more about the restored gospel.
They read the lessons eagerly as soon as translations could be made or outlines furnished. I want to say here that the Relief Society board were wonderful in sending the lessons early enough so that they could be translated so the sisters could start their lessons in October, just as the sisters here at home are doing. I testify that this is a great part of the work of Latter-day Saints, that through the inspiration of the Prophet Joseph Smith the Relief Society was organized, and we all know that no ward or branch is strong unless it has a strong Relief Society. I pray that the Lord will continue to bless these wonderful women and bless our presidency and board for the wonderful inspiration that they have given to the sisters in Europe. 
830  GENERAL SESSION THURSDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER 28, 1950
She Spiritual Power of Music Florence Jepperson Madsen one group in the Church: "Your job is to interpret spirituality in terms of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ." 'This statement may well be applied to all organizations of our Church, including our own Relief Society, for there is a crying need for spirituality in the world today. _ The pages of history reveal that hk Mark Petersen said to where music has been allowed to' function in its purity, spirituality has followed. History also shows that in many instances where it has seemed necessary to increase spirituality among the people, music has been employed.. ~ In the Book of Mormon we read: "Men are that they might have joy." Joy is one of the highest spiritual experiences known to man; and music is fundamentally an expression of joy. Note these words spoken by the Lord himself, when he challenged Job: Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth.... When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? And again these words from the Doctrine and Covenants: And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy (D. & C. 45:71). In a revelation given through the. Prophet Joseph Smith to Emma Smith, the Lord directed her as follows: And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (D. & C. 25:11-12). Since prayer is one of the greatest of all spiritual powers, and since the song of the righteous is a prayer, we must conclude that music is a spiritual force and, therefore, has a definite place in the home, the Church, and the community. Music generates courage, unity, and strength. 'This was experienced by our pioneers in their long trek across the plains. The hymn "Come, Come, Ye Saints" was especially written to give them needed cheer, help, and support to continue their journey westward. The songs and hymns sung by our great Tabernacle choir and the selections played on our famous Tabernacle organ in the regular Sunday morning broadcasts, enter homes throughout the Nation as faithful missionaries, and leave the gospel message of truth and spiritual uplift. Spirituality and culture are also taken into the homes by the sisters who participate in the Singing
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Mothers choruses. The joy and inspiration derived from singing together is reflected in the home and the community as a refining influence and becomes an invaluable and far-reaching power for good. The other fine musical organizations within the Church and those throughout the world are also making their contribution to the spiritu- 'al well-being of humanity. In a letter written by the apostle Paul to the Colossians we read: Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord (Colossians 3:16). In the singing of congregational hymns we are afforded the oppor- 831 tunity for self-expression, a means whereby we may affirm our religious convictions. As long as we can appreciate beautiful flowers and radiant sunsets, the laughter of children, and inspiring music, we may know that spirituality is still alive within us. These lines are from an unknown author: Servant and master am I: Servant of those dead, and Master of those living. Through my spirit immortals speak the message that makes The world weep, and laugh, and wonder, and worship. For I am the instrument of God. I am music. May we become more and more aware of the spiritual power of music, I pray.
Linto the JLeast of cJhese
General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering npHE title of this talk is taken from Matthew 25:
Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?
And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you. Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of tlicse my brethren, yc have done it unto me (Matt. 25:35-40).
During the 108 years of Relief
Society's existence, compassionate service— the tender, love-inspired ministrations which women, by their very natures, are peculiarly fitted to perform, has been an integral part of its program. Emphasis has been placed on various aspects of this service over the years according to the needs of the times.
Up until the .time the Welfare
Plan was inaugurated, Relief Society continued to directly supply some of the temporal needs of the saints under the direction of the bishops.
During the last decade, however,
Relief Society's efforts have been transferred from directly supplying temporary needs to assisting in producing Welfare assignments and to more extensively ministering to the

832
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— DECEMBER 1950 spiritual hungers of women. All this is a testimony to me of the divine origin of this organization— that it is set up to serve how, when, and where it is most needed.
It does not do much good to talk about such big things as ''humanity/' ''democracy/' and the "brotherhood of man" unless we can bring them down and apply them to our next door neighbor, as that is where international amity and the brotherhood of man begin.
The Prophet Joseph said at one of the early meetings: "Let your labors be confined mostly to those around you in your own circle."
While Relief Society officially records only those visits and services authorized by the president, it is about these services "over and above the call of duty" that I speak specifically.
There are in every neighborhood many aged, sick, lonely, or disturbed people who lack for no temporal needs, but they need friendly interest, assurance, peace of mind. No one is better fitted to minister to their needs than friendly, faithful
Latter-day Saint neighbors. President Spafford has referred to compassionate service as the "heartbeat of Relief Society— the kind word, the ray of hope, the warm handclasp." It is the constant stimulation of this heartbeat through sincerity and frequency of application that increases the circulation of hope, cheer, brotherly love, and faith in God in the world today, and produces a warm, peaceful glow in the souls of men in exact proportion to the amount of stimulation applied.
What about the aged women in your neighborhood — some who don't see too well, who would appreciate a cheerful visit, an hour of reading or letter writing, or being escorted to Church or to an entertainment? What about the homebound for whom you might run an errand or do some shopping? What about the mother in your neighborhood whose son is called to war and who is depressed^ or the young wife whose husband has entered military service and she is confused and upset about the future; or the newcomer who feels strange and lonely, one of our own converts from a foreign land having difficulty with our language and customs, and needs them interpreted?
What about the chronically ill to whom a smiling face and a fresh viewpoint would give new hope; a child confined to bed for a long period, to whom a cookie, or some simple dessert would bring happiness; what about staying occasionally with the children of a neighbor who seldom gets out because she cannot afford a baby sitter? There are endless opportunities all around us to demonstrate sisterly love if we but open our eyes to them.
Compassionate service benefits and blesses both the one who performs it and the one who receives it. In these times, there is great need for an acceleration of our compassionate services, not only as a means of encouraging and aiding our neighbors, but to increase our faith and quell our own fears, so that in following the example of our Savior we shall be strengthened and can say with David of old,
"What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee."
That we may do this is my prayer.

Hal Rumel
SNOW ON THE PEAKS AT ALTA, UTAH
Sili ences
LaVeine J. Stallings
I have known a purple silence
Hung with sunset fires
Resting far beyond a canyon's ledge.
I have languished in the cool, green silence
Where a ferny wood Grows beside a tranquil water's edge.
Danger treks have lured me on Through sunswept desert lands,
With tawny, golden silence over all;
And I have pressed my face upon
A crystal windowpane
To watch the silver-silent rains that fall.
Quietudes of gray slow-moving
On a sea's new dawn
Have stirred me from the stilHng deeps of night;
But now I come to a high Norn world
Where softly gleaming snows
Cover all the silences in white.
Page 833

Sixty LJears ^go
Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, December i and December 15, 1890
'Tor the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations"
CHRISTMAS IS COMING: That Christmas is coming is everywhere apparent in the donning of the hohday attire by merchants and shop-keepers. C. R. Savage at the Art Gallery, the genial friend of the widow and the orphan, and the children and old folks and every body in general, is well supplied with every thing in the art line.
His windows are always dressed in an attractive style at such times and no pains arc spared in catering to the public taste in the way of art and literature. . . . Above everything else let us all remember on this day of days the poor, the sick, the lonely and bereaved ones, the widow and the fatherless and carry with us everywhere, and scatter at home and abroad not only temporal gifts suited to our means, but the good will and charity that seasons good cheer. The love that surpasses all other love and makes us like unto Him whose advent we celebrate. — Editorial
SOLITUDE AND ITS ADVANTAGES: 'The law of compensation governs earth." Even one's disadvantages may result in her favor. No condition of life has been more lamented than loneliness, and yet loneliness has advantages which cannot be gainsayed. Chiefest among these the opportunity which it gives for the accumulation of force. All work depends upon the expenditure of energy and that energy in some occult way grows from processes of life. Happy lives have no history. The heart thrown back on itself sings the enduring song, — The Nightingale
CHRISTMAS BELLS
Dear are the sounds of the Christmas chimes
In the land of the ivied towers,
And they welcome the dearest of festival times
In this Western world of ours!
Bright on the holly and mistletoe bough,
The English firelight falls,
And bright are the wreathed evergreens now
That gladden oar own home walls.
And hark! the first sweet note that tells
The welcome of the Christmas bells.
— Selected
STORING GRAIN: A new method of storing grain is being introduced, which is as rem'arkable as the invention of ensilage pits for storage of fodder. Steel tanks are filled with the grain, and by a suction pump the air is partly exhausted, and a quantity of carbonic acid gas is admitted. The valves being closed, the grain is expected to remain for years without decay, and not liable to be injured by weevils, so destructive in the vast elevators where grain is now stored. — Selected.
COURTING SUNSHINE
Dear and true and patient one,
Well thy task is being done.
Yet continue, be unmoved,
Be thy course of heav'n approved.
As thy life thus far hath been.
Chaste and meek and free from sin.
— L. L. G. Richards
Page 834

Worn an *s Sphere
Ramona W. Cannon
■DECAUSE of "a great love for the memory and efforts put forth by the pioneers of Grantsville/' President J. Reuben Clark,
Jr. has had their adobe schoolhouse, built in 1861, restored and reconditioned. As a boy President Clark attended the school, and his father taught in it. The low tuition was paid partly in kind. President Clark presented the building to Crantsville Stake during the town's centennial celebration. In the deed he requested that the building be used as a meeting place for women's civic and religious organizations.
AT the General Federation of Women's Clubs Triennial Convention in Boston (May 29 - June
2, 1950) Dorothy D. (Mrs. Hiram
Cole) Houghton, was elected president of the organization, which was represented by delegates from many nations. Mrs. Houghton succeeds
Dorothea (Mrs. J. L. Blair) Buck, under whose leadership during the last triennium great progress has been made. nPHE staff of Georgia Neese Clark,
United States Treasurer, consists entirely of men. Her very low expense account on an early political assignment, and the economy and money sense she continued to show are largely responsible for her climb to success.
OECENTLY off the press is a small illustrated volume of cheerful verse. Brim With ]oyj by Frances Carter Yost, a contributor to The Reliei Society Magazine and other Church and Western periodicals. The wholesome philosophy of these poems and happy expression point to the joy to be derived from home, family, gardening, and related activities. jyrRS. MAMIE PETERS CALL'S brief novel, Lady Laura, is a lively story of a Welsh immigrant girl with a beautiful singing voice, who finds herself, not by design, in a Mormon pioneer train on its way to ''The Valley." Touches of humor and authentic detail of pioneer life add to the interest.