[Visiting Teacher Messages: "A New Commandment" by Mary G. Judd]

visiting teachers—over 40,000 in all—messages consisting of admonitions and other significant statements of our Savior. 'The object of delivering specific messages in the home is primarily for the good of those visited. But none of us can give inspiration to others without receiving inspiration ourselves. Christ's promise, "Lo, I am with you alway," suggests that, in our efforts, he will sustain us with his power. Yet this promise, like all others he made, cannot be fully realized unless we comprehend that 'Christ was indeed divine. It is about this particular phase of spiritual development that I wish to speak. All of us should ever keep in mind the vitality of the question asked by our Lord himself, "What think ye of Christ? Whose son is he?" We should be able to answer with conviction, even as Peter did, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." It is not enough for visiting teachers to carry the words of the Savior into the homes, but they should carry within their hearts a testimony of his divinity. If the Savior is divine, then it follows that he must be perfect. One cannot find a flaw in the Galilean. He had wisdom which no other individual on earth ever possessed, in fact, he impresses us as already having the wisdom which other men must strive to attain. His power was far beyond anything earthly, for he controlled the forces of nature, even those of life and death. "What manner of man is this," his disciples asked, "that even the winds and the sea obey him!" While every other _ historical character grows dimmer with time, our Savior grows more distinct. President Heber J. Grant expressed his feeling about this characteristic in these words: The oftener I read of His life and labors the greater are the joy, the peace, the happiness, the satisfaction that fill my soul. There is ever a new charm comes to me in contemplating His words and the plan of life and salvation which He taught to men during His life upon the earth. After the completion of this year's outlined messages, the women of our Church, through their visiting teachers, will have been given twenty-four direct quotations of the Savior. Stake leaders, advise 

818  your visiting teachers to encourage the women visited to keep on living closer and closer to the Master by searching out and making their own other sayings of his.
With the sure knowledge of the divinity of Christ in our hearts, with a determination to become more familiar with his words and live his teachings to the best of our ability, we may rest assured that he will be with us alway, "even unto the end of the world." And that this may be, I pray. ~~ Concluding Statemenit—eLiterature Panel Discussion Leone O. Jacobs Chairman, Literature Committee N summing up the literature panel discussion, I think we have arrived at a few important conclusions. First, we agree that the great literature of the past is immensely valuable to us today, that there is safety in studying it, because it has stood the test of time. We agree that this literature is not old-fashioned, except in minor detail, because the truths portrayed therein are ageless, and so apply equally well to us. We have brought out the fact that the teacher should fit the material to her particular group, and that it is her responsibility to make this material carry over into their lives. We have pointed out some specific applications which might be made from the various lessons. And finally, we have recommended that mothers encourage the reading aloud of great literature in the family group.
Great books are not paper and ink and cloth, they are persons.
They are a company of immortals who have weathered the centuries and are now marching toward eternity.
They invite us to walk a little way with them.
They open their hearts to us.
They lift our horizons. And from the Doctrine and Covenants we quote: Study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books. Gternal Values Counselor Velma N. Simonsen T the last April conference of the Church, President David O. McKay made this statement, "Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man." We here today are possessed of these two greatest of all gifts which God can bestow upon man, life and the right to make that life what we choose. The use we make of any gift determines its value to us. We may be given a precious book, one with an elegant binding, containing the world's greatest wisdom within its printed pages. If we put that book away, and fail to ever bring it out to admire its beauty or to partake of the wisdom of its contents, it is of no more value to us than an empty scratch pad. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. The value of the gift of life and the gift of free agency lies in our use of them to gain happiness and joy here, and eternal life and exaltation hereafter. As a general rule, we are anxious to put the gift of choice to good use, we are anxious to improve our conditions, and to improve our minds, anxious to strengthen our will to do good and to overcome evil. But the great difficulty with us is that we know so poorly how to evaluate what is good and what is bad for us. It is easy for us to accept the gospel in principle, but to live those principles every day of our lives is more difficult. You hear people declare with great sincerity that they know the gospel is true, but they are reluctant to forego pleasures in order to give service in the Church. I remember when I was a young girl, my mother, desiring to divide with her children some of the treasures and keepsakes she had collected over a period of years, called us children together and told us we might each choose one thing from the treasures she had spread on the table.
After looking them over carefully, one of the children. Said, "Oh, it is so hard to know what will be best in the long run. If I take a figurine it may get broken, and I would be sorry that I had not taken a piece of linen or tapestry. Or I might take the cloth and it would get soiled or ruined, and I would wish I had taken the figurine." 'Then mother counselled, "That is what all life is, the making of choices, and if I could give you the one gift I would most desire to give you today, it would be the gift of a true sense of values, the ability 819 to always choose that which would bring you lasting and eternal hap- 2?
Power is not given us to bestow such a gift upon our children nor upon those whom we love and direct.
Each must develop his own gift, but it is within our power and it is our responsibility as parents and as teachers to guide those who are under our direction to the source of all wisdom, our Heavenly Father, and to instill into them the necessity for seeking him in all things. The Lord has given us this promise: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. We too often forget that promise, or we fail to realize that it was given to all mankind as well as to the Prophet Joseph Smith who put it to a practical test. We cannot be overdiligent in our teachings in stressing this promise, for through faith we can develop the power to be selective, the ability to choose the wheat from the chaff. | EF, are bombarded on every side ~by advertisements trying to make vice and sin and wrongdoing glamorous and desirable. 'These advertisements and outside influences sometimes make worldly pleasures, popularity, a good time, and material gains such as power, or fame, or wealth, sound so enticing that we choose these things of small value which, at the most, only satisfy our immediate selfish desires instead of choosing service in the kingdom of God, which brings last- 820 ing joy and develops spiritual strength and guides us into eternal life. We must build up within ourselves and in those whom we teach such a strong desire for righteousness, that it will counteract these advertisements and the influences that would make us sell our birthright cheaply. Too often there is a tendency for people, when they are successful and prosperous and the good things of life are theirs, to feel so adequate within themselves that they do not sense the need of spiritual guidance. Then, too, in our struggle to meet the material needs of our lives, or the desire to give to-our children the good things of this earth which the Lord has created for our enjoyment, we often forget to maintain that balance with spirituality which is of such vital importance to complete our joy. The Lord recognized our weakness when he said, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye are little children, and ye have not as yet understood how great blessings the Father hath in his own hands and prepared for you." One of the great blessings he has prepared for us is the Relief Society organization.
This he has prepared especially for the women of the Church and for all women who will avail themselves of its blessings. But the record of membership and attendance at Relief Society meetings shows that our sisters are not availing themselves of this great blessing. 'They are letting the things of passing value substitute for the things of eternal worth. How many of you presidents have had the experience of asking a sister to accept some position in your Re lief Society organization only to be told that she cannot do it for her club meets on that day?
Listen to the words of our prophets concerning this: The divinely inspired origin [of Relief Society] brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, -and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another. The members should permit neither hostile nor competitive interests of any kind to detract from the duties and obligations, the privileges and honors, the opportunities and achievements of membership in this great society. The prime, almost the exclusive allegiance of every member of this great group, runs in this field to their fellow members and to the organization.
Members should permit no other affiliation either to interrupt or to interfere with the work of this Society.
They should give to Relief Society service precedence over all social and other clubs and societies of similar kinds. We urge this because in the work of the Relief Society are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization and sufficient for all general needs of its members. We urge all the sisters to take these things to heart, and to co-operate in continuing the Relief Society in its position of the greatest and most efficient woman's organization in the world.
Nearly every narrative report coming from the wards says, "Membership and attendance are our big problems."
They are big problems, and what are we doing about them? Sisters, there is a way to reach every heart.
Study and pray that you may find that way. Our Relief Society lessons are planned to help us find the real values of life.
They are planned also to give practical help in applying our faith to works.
They should be presented to our sisters with the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE idea of not only giving them facts and information, but with the idea of influencing their lives, of helping them to meet life with faith, 821 helping them to choose righteousness, causing them to say within themselves, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." <>< DEPARTMENTAL MEETING WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER 27, 1950
Diges'—Untroducing the lew Social Science Course Edith S, Elhott Chairman, Social Science Committee T is a great responsibility to be a member of a group assigned to choose a new course of lessons in Relief Society. We could have heaven on earth, but man seems to be his own worst enemy and, because of that, it seemed that we should go back into the experiences of history to see the mistakes that have been made, and see if we can't go on from there and try to do better. 'Through ancient times as we cast our eyes back over the panorama of history, we find that there has been one great war after another from the beginning of time. If Satan can keep us stirred up with intolerance one towards another, there can be no peace anywhere in the world. The textbook for the course is The Progress of Man by Joseph Fielding Smith. In reading through it you can't help but feel the inspiration and the scholarly ability that Brother Smith has had in writing the book.
From the preface for the introduction of the textbook, I would like to read one quote from the section in the book that was authored by Brother Archibald Bennett: In this momentous day of transition, when old standards of morals and government are being ruthlessly discarded and multitudes clamor for change, for the new and the untried...
Things of worth are too often spurned simply because they are old and tried. We must have the spirit of brotherly love and understanding, and from the beginning of time our Heavenly Father has kept that voice crying repentance in the wilderness. We hope that the social science lessons will show that the only road to peace is righteous living. -—>- INDIAN RELATIONS DEPARTMENT Diges— She