[Vol6 | November 1919 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Hindu Temple Frontispiece]
OUR  GOD  AND  FRIEND. 
Thanksgiving  hymn  for  November,   ipip,   by  L.  Lula  Greene 
Richards. 
Father,  thou  eternal  one! 
For  the  wonders  thou  hast  done, 
For  thy  kind  paternal  care. 
For  thy  mercies  rich  and  rare, — 
Thanks  and  worship  we  extend 
Unto  thee,  our  God  and  Friend. 
While  throug-h  all  the  world  around 
Strife  and  bitterness  abound, 
Well  hast  thou  established  here 
People  who.  with  loving  fear 
In  thy  sacred  temples  bend, 
Praising  thee  our  God  and  Friend. 
All  our  service  be  to  thee. 
By  thy  gospel  truth  made  free. 
Led  by  prophets  of  thy  choice, 
Guided  by  thine  own  true  voice, 
Thanks  and  praises  without  end 
Be  to  thee  our  God  and  Friend.

'E)  Underwood  &  Underwood,  New  York 
GATEWAY  TO  HINDU  TEMPLE,  LUCKNOW,  INDIA.

THE 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  VI.  NOVEMBER,  1919.  No.  11. 
Temples. 
Mary  Foster  Gibbs 
All  religious  forms  are  symbolic  in  their  character.  The 
mind  of  man  is  peculiar,  in  that  memory  is  short  and  impressions 
are  fleeting.  In  order  to  retain  and  maintain  an  attitude  of  de- 
votion, one  must  be  constantly  reminded  of  his  obligations  and 
promises  with  his  heavenly  Father.  If  it  were  not  for  the  Sab- 
bath day,  and  certain  rituals  and  observances  of  that  day  through- 
out the  Christian  world — if  in  any  way  this  day  and  its  peculiar 
observances  were  abolished  for  any  length  of  time,  the  second 
generation  would  be  almost  devoid  of  reverence  for  the  Savior, 
and  the  next  generation  would  no  doubt  forget  that  such  a  Being 
existed.  The  Sabbath  was  indeed  made  for  man  that  he  might  re- 
member and,  through  remembering,  so  discipline  his  spirit,  his 
earthly  desires  and  mortal  selfish  propensities,  that  he  would 
thereby  obtain  salvation  and  achieve  self  control. 
For  this  purpose  the  Lord  has  given  to  his  earth-born  chil- 
dren a  series  of  symbolic  obser^^ances  for  daily  use,  for  the 
Sabbath  and  for  birth,  baptism,  marriage  and  death  periods,  which 
keep  the  mind  quickened  and  the  will  tempered  to  spiritual  laws 
and  final  self  mastery,  when  the  human  will  shall  conform  in 
every  particular  with  the  Divine  Will.  That  we  obey  divine  law 
is  not  so  much  a  benefit  to  our  heavenly  Father  as  it  is  a  great 
and  lasting  benefit  to  ourselves.  He  loves  us  and  when  he  sees 
us  obeying  true  and  righteous  laws,  he  is  gratified  and  rejoices, 
just  as  earthly  parents  rejoice  when  their  children  are  good  and 
obedient. 
In  this  stage  of  existence,  which  is  a  condition  of  struggle 
and  darkness,  we  need  constant  help  and  gtiidance  to  keep  our  feet 
in  the  straight  and  narrow  way.  For  this  purpose,  then,  the 
Lord  gave  his  earliest  prophets  and  teachers  a  series  of  svmbolic 
rites  and  ceremonies  which  would  instruct  the  mind  and  inspire 
the  heart  through  the  forms  that  appeal  to  the  eye :  eave  rituals 
and  ceremonies  that  enter  the  brain  through  the  medium  of  eye,

624  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
ear  and  hand.  For  instance,  the  daily  prayer,  in  which  the  knee 
is  bowed  and  the  eye  is  closed,  permits  the  heart  and  lips  to  voice 
g-ratitude  and  renew  appeals  for  continued  help.  The  mind  is 
the  more  concentrated  because  of  shutting  out  the  surroundings 
by  closed  eyes ;  kneeling  not  only  indicates  humility  but  actually 
induces  that  state  of  mind  by  the  bending  of  the  body  thus  sym- 
bolizing the  subjection  of  the  will  to  a  Higher  power. 
The  great,  fundamental  truth  of  earthly  existence  is  the  of- 
fering of  the  Savior  for  the  sins  of  the  world.  It  is  impossible 
to  believe  that  our  Father  would  acquaint  only  the  small  handful 
of  his  children  known  as  the  Hebrews  and  earlier  the  Semites 
with  this  foundation  fact.  We  know  from  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  that  an  angel  taught  Adam  to  offer  sacrifice ;  and  no  doubt, 
he  carried  that  lesson  on  to  his  descendants,  until  Noah  himself 
came  out  of  the  ark  and  built  an  altar  of  sacrifice  and  thanksgiv- 
ing. Noah  must  have  taught  his  three  sons,  Shem,  Ham,  and 
Japheth,  the  correct  pattern  of  the  sacrificial  rite,  although  his- 
tory proves  that  Shem  alone  maintained  the  rite  in  its  simplicity 
and  correctness. 
The  Assyrians  and  the  Babylonians  built  great  winding  tow-
