[Vol6 | November 1919 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Emancipation of Margaret Bryce]
Emancipation  of  Margaret  Bryce. 
By  C. 
Aunt  Marion's  telegram  reached  the  Bryce  home  about  10 
a.  m.  on  the  22nd  of  August.  In  the  dining  room  the  breakfast 
was  still  set  as  the  family  had  left  it — Maude  had  been  out  with 
her  Bee  Hive  Swarm  on  a  moonlight  hike  the  night  before  and 
had  a  head-ache ;  Betty  had  gone  with  Elva  Crawford  to  see  some- 
thing about  the  bazaar  the  Primary  was  getting  up.  On  the  back 
porch  was  heaped  a  pile  of  bedding  and  a  couple  of  "grub"  boxes 
Will  had  brought  in  from  the  herd  the  day  before.  He  was  up 
town  now  getting  supplies  for  the  fishing  trip  the  Scouts  were 
going  on  the  following  day.  Ned  was  in  the  .shed  overhauling 
the  second-hand  "jitney"  he  had  traded  for  a  few  days  before. 
The  kitchen  table  and  sink  were  piled  high  with  unhusked, 
'green  corn  Bertha  had  sent  up  with  the  boys  on  their  way 
to  the  pasture  with  the  cows.  Bertha  wanted  to  can  it  in  the  press- 
ure cooker  and  it  was  such  a  job  to  do  it  alone  that  she  always 
came  to  her  mother's  to  do  it.  She  had  told  the  boys  to  tell 
grandma  that  the  baby  had  cried  with  the  ear-ache  the  night  be- 
fore and  she  might  be  a  little  late  getting  up  to  help. 
The  sitting  room  floor  and  table  and  chairs  were  strewn  with 
plots  and  deeds  where  John  had  left  them.  He  had  stopped  in  on 
his  way  to  the  field  to  look  up  some  papers  concerning  the  late 
father's  estate,  and  had  been  in  too  much  of  a  hurry  to  put  things 
away  again. 
When  the  messenger  boy  came,  he  found  Margaret  Bryce  in 
the  garden.  A  large  basket  of  tomatoes  stood  in  tne  path  near  the 
empty  swill-pails.  The  woman  was  staggering  from  the  corn 
patch  under  a  huge  load  of  green  fodder  she  had  pulled  for  the 
calves.    On  iher  arm  hung  a  bucket  of  grain  for  the  chickens. 
"Here's  a  telegram  for  you.  Sister  Bryce,"  called  Johnny  At- 
kins when  he  saw  her. 
Margaret  Bryce  stopped.  The  blood  fled  from  her  wrinkled 
cheeks,  and  she  tottered  beneath  her  load,  and  let  it  fall  to  the 
ground. 
Jimmy !    Her  missionary  boy !    It  must  be      It  was  only 
last  summer  that  Fred  Davis  had  died  in  the  mission-field  of 
pneumonia.  These  thoughts  sped  like  lightning  through  her  mind 
as  she  reached  for  the  yellow  envelope.  Her  knotted  hand's 
trembled  as  they  broke  the  seal.  The  words  danced  before  her 
sunken  eyes. 
"Here,  Johnny  ;  I  haven't  my  glasses.    Will  you — read — it 
please?"    Johnny  took  the  forboding  message  and  read:  ..

EMANCIPATION  OF  MARGARET  BRYCE.        637 
"Los  Angeles,  Cal.,  Aug.  19. 
"Am  coming  to  visit  you.    Should  arrive  about  the  22nd. 
"Marion." 
A  look  of  relief  followed  by  one  of  joy  came  into  Mrs.  Bryce's 
face, 
"Thank  you,  Johnny."  She  picked  up  her  load  and  started 
toward  the  corral. 
So  Marion  was  coming  to  see  her.  Marion !  her  twin  sister 
whom  she  had  not  seen  for  twenty — no,  twenty-five  years.  Yes, 
it  was  when  Bertha  was  a  baby  that  IMarion  had  paid  her  last 
visit.  It  was  not  with  unmixed  pleasure  that  j\Irs.  Bryce  recalled 
that  visit  even  now.  Marion  and  James  never  hac?  gotten  on  well. 
On  that  visit  Marion  objected  vigorously  to  the  way  James  let  his 
wife  wait  upon  him.  She  had  said  some  very  unkind  and  cutting 
things  and  while  Margaret  had  felt  that  they,  in  a  way,  were 
justified,  she  had  felt  in  duty  bound  to  take  sides  with  her  husband 
and  a  sort  of  estrangement  between  the  sisters  had  resulted. 
As  the  years  went  by  it  had  been  bridged  over  to  some  extent. 
Occasional  letters  passed  between  them  and  Marion  was  ever 
inviting  Margaret  to  visit  her.  This  her  husband  had  never  been 
willing  for  her  to  do,  but  they  had  let  the  girls  go  out  a  year  or  so 
ago.  But  now  poor  James  was  dead  and  Marion  was  coming. 
The  thought  gave  Mrs.  Bryce  a  glow  of  happiness.  She  had  al- 
ways loved  her  twin  sister  devotedly  and  even  as  a  child  had  envied 
that  "way"  Marion  had  of  getting  what  she  wanted  so  easily. 
They  were  so  entirely  different,  she  and  Marion. 
Mrs.  Bryce  fed  the  calves  and  chickens  and  hurried  toward
