EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A VERY important measure to women
that the Legislature has in hand is
to make women eligible to appointment on
Boards of Education and other Boards where
women are specially concerned or are in-
mates of Asylums, Homes etc.
	A MEMORIAL is before the House asking
that the Woman’s Industrial Home in this
City be given to the Women of the Ter-
ritory for a Woman’s Hospital, which is
certainly more in accord with the intention
of the appropriation made by Congress to
establish the Home,than any purpose which
Congress has been asked to consider here-
tofore.
	SISTERS Zina D. H. Young and Jane S.
Richards of the Relief Society Presidency
each celebrated her birthday anniversary on
Jan. 31st. Mrs. Young in Salt Lake City,
Mrs. Richards in Ogden. We have notices
for publication, but had to lay them over as
this issue is special matter relating to Utah
prepared to distribute at the Midwinter Fair
in San Francisco.
	THERE are several bills now pending in
the Legislature in which women should be
specially interested. One is a “School for
the Blind” which should by all means be
passed for if there is any class that are en-
titled to material help it is those who are
deprived of the blessing of light, and all
that can tend to make their life happier
should certainly be done.
	THERE is a bill before the House of
Representatives asking for a bounty on
cocoons, for the purpose of encouraging the
silk industry in Utah. It was thought by
women specially interested in the Silk
Exhibit in the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair which was such a gratifying
success,that to offer some inducement to the
people who raise cocoons, would be the
best method of fostering this important in-
dustry because it would go direct to the
producer. Too much cannot be done to
build up a home production that will cer-
tainly be, if effort is properly directed in
the enterprise, a remunerative business and
light work in which women and children
can engage in their own homes.
	THE Assembly of Women which con-
vened under the auspices of the Utah W.
S. A. on Saturday, February third was
quite a success in the way of numbers, and
the speeches were logical and eloquent and
it will no doubt be the means of awakening

