GROWTH OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	AT this time, when woman suffrage is
under consideration by the Massachussets
Legislature, a summary of the votes on
suffrage taken during the past year in other
State Legislatures may be of interest. 
	The Colorado House voted 39 to 21, and 
the Senate two to one, in favor of granting
women full suffrage, and it was ratified by
popular vote by 6,347 majority. In Ari-
zona, a full suffrage bill passed the House
17 to 6, and was lost by two votes in the
Senate. In Maine, a municipal suffrage
bill passed the Senate 16 to 13, and was de-
feated in the House by nine votes.
	The Kansas House voted 94 to 17, and
the Senate 32 to 5, in favor of a full suf-
frage amendment, which is now pending.
In Nebraska full suffrage was defeated in
the House, 46 to 42, and municipal suffrage
passed the House, 45 to 36, and was indefi-
nitely postponed in the Senate, 17 to 15.
	A full suffrage amendment passed the
Minnesota Senate, 31 to 19. It came up in


the House so late that it could only be
passed by suspending the rules. The
House voted, 54 to 44, to suspend the rules
in its favor, but failed to do so for want of
the necessary two-thirds.
	In North Dakota a full suffrage amend-
ment passed the Senate, 20 to 9, and the
House, 33 to 22, but was afterwards recon-
sidered in the House and lost.
	In Illinois a bill to repeal school suffrage
failed, no one voting for it except the
mover; and a bill to extend township suf-
frage to women passed the Senate, 27 to 11,
but failed in the House.
	In Michigan a bill granting municipal
suffrage to women, with an educational
qualification, passed the House, 57 to 25,
and the Senate, 18 to 11, and was signed
by the Governor, but was set aside by the
Supreme Court as unconstitutional.
	In California a school suffrage bill passed
the House, 42 to 27, and the Senate, 31 to
6, but was vetoed by the Governor. In
Vermont, where, in the constitutional con-
vention of 1870, a proposition for woman
suffrage received only one vote, a municipal
suffrage bill passed the last House, 149 to
83, and came so near passing the Senate
that a change of five votes would have
carried it. In New Mexico full Suffrage
passed the House by a large majority, but
did not reach a vote in the Senate.
	In Arkansas school suffrage passed the
Senate, but was laid on the table in the
House. In Connecticut a school suffrage
bill passed both branches of the Legislature,
was signed by the Governor, and is now
the law.
	In New York the last Legislature extend-
ed to women the right to vote for county
school commissioners, in addition to the
right to vote for ordinary school officers,
which the women have had since 1880.
But the Supreme Court has just set aside
the new law granting county school com-
missioners suffrage as unconstitutional.
	In Wyoming, the House of Representa-
tives, by a unanimous vote, after twenty-
five years’ experience, declared that woman
suffrage had worked well, and advised all
other States to adopt it.
	In Nova Scotia full suffrage was defeated
by 3 votes. In New Zealand full suffrage
passed both branches of the Legislature,
was signed by the Governor and is now the
law. In the British House of Commons,
suffrage was extended to all women, both
married and single, by the parish councils
bill, against the opposition of the govern-
ment, by a vote of 147 to 126. The House
of Commons has since voted to make
women eligible also to serve on the London
vestries.
	In our own country, while the only ac-
tual victories of the suffragists during the
past year have been in Colorado and Con-
necticut, the close votes in many other
States show the growth of public senti- 
ment upon the question.
	Years ago, when woman suffrage was
much more unpopular than now, Bishop
Gilbert Haven was asked by a friend
whether it were true that he had been speak-
ing at a suffrage meeting. “Yes,” an-
swered the bishop, “I don’t want to fall in
at the rear of this reform. I propose to
march with the profession!” A. S. B. Ex.


