DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.

	MUSIC and the Drama are two of the
most powerful agencies of civiliza-
tion. Brigham Young, the leader of
modern Israel in its exodus to these moun-
tains, with his profound knowledge of hu-
man nature, typed with his New England
sagacity, evinced consummate wisdom in
supplying his people with the means of
social and physical revivification. The
weariness of travel, and the labors of mak-
ing new homes, were enlivened by joyous
music, familiar songs, with the merry
dance and social ball. Arrived in the valley
of the Great Salt Lake the dance to the
Mormon, became almost like an institution,
and the ball a social sacrament. Out of
the Nauvoo brass band which left Nauvoo
with Brigham Young indirectly grew our
first theatrical company. An amalgama-
tion was effected between the members of
the band and certain ladies and gentlemen
possessing dramatic instincts and predilec-
tions, several of whom had also been con-
nected with theatrical, before they came in-
to the isolation of these mountains. The
project of organizing a company with a
combination of the musical and dramatic
elements, received the hearty sanction of
Brigham Young, and he at once became
the patron of the Salt Lake stage. The
first dramatic company organized consisted
of H. B. Clawson, James Ferguson, Phi
Margetts, John Kay, H. K. Whitney, Rob1
Campbell, R. T. Burton, William Clayton
and others; the ladies were Miss Orum,
Miss Judd (afterwards Mrs. Clawson) and
Miss Mary Badlam. Of these, only the
first three had received any professional
training. It bore the name of the
“Musical and Dramatic Company.” The
orchestra was composed of members of the
Nauvoo Band.
	There was a company now, but no
theater, nor even a hall of capacity sufficient
to give a public performance, while the
community were socially striving for public
amusements and recreation to enliven the
isolation of “a thousand miles from every-
where,” as their locality was then descri-
bed. The majority of the citizens in 1851
and 1852 were fresh from a land of theaters.
England, of thirty-five years ago was still
the England of Shakespear, and not of
Boucicault. There were those in Salt Lake
City who had seen Macready, some who
had seen John and Charles Kemble, their
sister, Sarah Siddons,and Edmund Kean on
the stage in their native land. The major-
ity of the British people in the valley at
that period were from London, Birming-

