[Column 2]
Lake City, prominent mention must be
made of the grand organ in the Tabernacle.
When it was commenced in 1866, all the
materials necessary for building it had to be
obtained from the East, and hauled across
the plains, and over the mountains in wag-
ons. It shows how deeply the love of
music was rooted in the hearts of the early
settlers in Utah, when in the face of such
almost insuperable obstacles, they planned
and successfully carried to completion the
erection of such a magnificent instrument,
at that time the second largest in the world.
The architect and designer of ths grand
organ was Mr. Joseph Ridges, who worked
on it for many years, but to Mr. Johnson
belongs the credit of bringing it to its pres-
ent perfect completion. It has four man-
uals, and pedal; fifty seven stops, and two
thousand six hundred and forty eight pipes,
supplied with wind by three large bellows,
operated by two hydraulic motors. In its
completed form, situated in one of the most
perfect acoustic buildings in the world, it is
justly an object of pride to our city and the
wonder and admiration of strangers. When
Professor Careless resigned the conductor-
ship of the Philharmonic Society, Professor
Radcliff came to Salt Lake City and took
the vacant position, and a year later gave
“The Creation” in the theater with marked
success. Professor Radcliff is a great
organist, and his recitals given on the
Tabernacle organ proves his complete
mastership of that noble instrument. In
1878, in order to meet the growing demand
for musical education, the Utah Conserva-
tory of music was opened in Salt Lake City
with Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson as director.
This institution devoted to the study of
music in all its branches, included system-
atic courses for the voice, and all instru-
ments in common use, with instruction in
Musical Theory, Notation, Tone Reading
and Elocution, and was for several years
the principal school of music in the Terri-
tory, many of its pupils are among our best
amateur musicians and vocalists today.
Among our local musicians also may be
mentioned Professor Joseph J. Daynes,
pupil of G. W. Morgan of New York, who
has presided at the Tabernacle organ since
1867, and Professor Orson Pratt, an able
teacher of the piano, harmony and counter-
point.
	Among our noted violin soloists Mr.
Willard Weihe stands in the front rank. A
protege of Ole Bull, for whom he played at
the early age of ten years, he has by force
of his genius and perseverance worked him-
self up to the highest position, and under
the tuition of the celebrated Vieuxtemps,
developed a marvelous technique that has
rarely been equaled except by a virtuoso.
His exquisite rendition of the works of the
great masters, is at once an inspiration, and
an artist’s dream.
	In 1881 Professor H. S. Krouse came to
Salt Lake City, and at once established him-
self as a first class musician and teacher,
and during his residence here has steadily
risen in the appreciation of all lovers of
classical music, until he now stands at the
head of his profession with a reputation
second to none as a teacher of piano and
the Higher Techniques. As a conductor
of opera and concert, he is a grand success
and his representation of Fatinitza was a
brilliant and artistic performance. In this
opera, Miss Jennie Hawley, (now Mrs. H.
C. Woodrow) a pupil of Professor Krouse,
took the title role, in which her exquisite

[Column 3]
contralto voice was heard to great advan-
tage. In setting before his pupils a high
standard of musical taste and culture, and
enconraging the study of the works of the
great masters, Professor Krouse has done
more for the advancement of classical and
High Art Music than any one else in this
community, and many of his pupils have
become creditable teachers, among whom
special mention must be made of Mrs.
Joseph McIntyre, at present a prominent
and successful teacher in Oneida N. Y. The 
annual recitals given by Professor Krouse’s
pupils are classical entertainments of a
high order. The programme for the com-
ing recital includes concertos by Henselt,
Chopin and Mendelssohn with orchestral
accompaniment on second piano, also com-
positions by Liszt, Liebling, Beethoven,
Rubenstein, Gottschalk and Wieniawski,
rendered by a number of his advanced
pupils who give promise of great musical
attainments in the near future.
	A long list of performers on piano, or-
gan, violin and other instruments might be
given, which together with a number of -
vocalists of unusual excellence justify the
claim that we are in Salt Lake City especial-
ly a music loving and appreciative people,
and that no Territory, and but few States
in our land can equal Utah in the progress
made in the divine art. Especially in this
the truth with regard to choral music.
Salt Lake leads with the largest church
choir in the world—the Tabernacle Choir
with 600 enrolled members—the Choral
Society three hundred in number, thirty
choirs belonging to the various churches in
the city, averaging at least twenty voices
each, making a grand total of fifteen hun-
dred choristers in this city alone. Add to
these the two hundred and fifty choirs in
the various towns and settlements together
with all the Sunday school choristers in the
Territory and Utah may well claim to be
the land of music, song and sunshine.
	To Professor Evan Stephens, a practical
musician and composer of considerable
native genius as well as professional train-
ing, is due the success of the general move-
ment in class teaching in the Sunday
schools of the Territory. Possessed of
rare personal magnetism, a born musical
leader with perfect choral control, he sways
the hundreds of children on the stage with
a few simple movements of his baton,
maintaining a perfect tempo, with the most
exquisite variation of forte and piano. The
concert of National songs given in the
Tabernacle on February 22nd 1893 by
twelve hundred children under fifteen years
of age, was repeated seven times to large
and enthusiastic audiences, and demonstra-
ted the possibility of a high standard of
musical training for children, thus educat-
ing a generation of musicians who will in
future years maintain Utah’s musical supre-
macy in the Rocky Mountains. The great-
est achievement of Professor Stephen’s
career has been the training and successful
competition of 250 members of the Taber-
nacle choir at the World’s Fair Eisteddfod.
The three competitive choruses were “Wor-
thy is the Lamb,” (Messiah) “Blessed are
the men,” (Elijah) and “Now the impet-
uous torrents rise,” (David & Saul) and
these had been practiced for many months
by the trained choirs who entered the con-
test for the World’s Fair prizes. The Utah
choir who had less than three months for
preparation, sang the numbers without
copies, and carried off the second prize of
$1000. The journey of the choir to and


from Chicago was a perfect ovation. Per-
formances were given in six cities en route,
and the greatest enthusiasm was manifested
by all the people who attended their con-
certs, while the press was unstinted in
praise of their efforts. "Utah's triumph in
Chicago" is only the stimulus to greater
efforts and the pledge of more brilliant suc-
cesses in the future. Proud as we may
justly be of our past musical achievements
and present standing, our future possibilities
are far more glorious, and under the leader-
ship of such artists as Krouse, Careless,
Stephens, Radcliff and Weihe, Utah is des-
tined to become world famed for her un-
equaled musical excellence and progress.


