[Column 2]
silk portiers, the design to be the Sego Lily
(the floral emblem of Utah) designed and
embroidered by our own ladies. The
portiers as a proof of our wise selection
were received with profound surprise, it
not having been known that such a quality
of silk could be raised in America.
	Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury, National
Commissioner from Utah, was asked if
Utah could make an exhibit of silk, which
might lead to the encouragement of seri-
culture in the United States, if an ap-
propriation could be obtained from Con-
gress. The money being procured the
offer was accepted, although the Fair was
then open. As no silk had been raised for
four years this was no easy task at home,
yet we succeeded in collecting a number of
silk dresses, silk shawls, scarfs, fringes,
hosiery, knitting and sewing silk and twists,
a quantity of reeled silk and cocoons,
these, with the portiers, made our cases
both artistic and interesting. We also en-
gaged a young lady born and raised in
Utah to reel, and a woman to weave and
procured a primitive loom, reel and twist-
ing wheel, with all attachments, which
had been used here in the early days.
	This exhibit attracted a great deal of at-
tention and in the last catalogue issued it
was prominently mentioned as one of the
most interesting exhibits in the Woman’s
Building, and of especial interest to in-
dustrial women. Among those who
visited it were many foreigners who were
experienced in seri culture, who were very
much interested. One Frenchman who is
engaged in selling French silks in America
said of one piece of silk which he was
looking at “That if we could raise silk of
that quality we had an unknown source of
wealth which would be more to us than
any amount of gold if properly
manipulated.’’ Many kindergarten work-
ers took notes of every detail, and think it
will be a wonderful thing to introduce into
their work. Women interested in industrial
homes were just as anxious to know all
they could and felt confident, that if taken
up in a simple way, would furnish interest-
ing employment for their girls, which
might in time bring a very profitable re-
muneration. We sincerely trust the
exhibit will do a great deal of good in the
direction for which it was intended, and
that we will fully appreciate the benefits
which it has brought to us at home.
	Our silk was examined by a committee of
Japanese under the Department of Manufac-
ture, and awarded a medal and a diploma,
and under the department of agriculture by
American experts, who also awarded it a
medal and a diploma. Besides this a vast
amount of valuable information was ob-
tained by the exhibitors, which the Fair
with its visitors afforded, which because of
the secretive way the arts of raising and
preparing silk have been held were before
unknown to us. Besides the exhibit made
at the Woman’s Building the ladies of
Davis county contributed a set of furniture
(seven pieces) to the ladies reception room
in the Utah Building, upholstered in home
raised silk, it was a sage green brocaded
with a spray of wild sage, the color har-
monizing with the other furnishings in the
room. The upper part of the windows
were festooned very artistically with cocoons
and a frieze of peacock feathers, which to-
gether presented to the weary sight-seer
such a restful and cool appearance that it
was greatly admired, and many having

[Column 3]
heard of it from their friends came to see it
for themselves. We feel that if the wo-
men of Utah can receive some assistance
and will take hold of this industry, which
is so particularly adapted to women and
permanently establish it, it will give labor
of a profitable nature to many of our wo-
men and be a great benefit to the nation, by
keeping at home a vast amount of money.
	The raising of the worm is a labor which is
extremely interesting, and to the womanly
heart brings out a loving care and interest
which makes it more than mere labor.
The reeling demands such an acute and
gentle touch as can only be found in the
hands of women. The weaving furnishes
a broad field for artistic work in coloring
and designing, as well as light labor, and 
will bring to any industrious woman a 
profitable remuneration, and should it not
be a great source of pride to any young wo-
man who could raise prepare and weave
the silk in her own gowns.
	As has been stated there are thousands
of mulberry trees already growing, the
climate is well adapted to the silk worm;
the freedom from disease which is so fatal
in damp climates, and with hundreds of
women anxious to engage in the industry,
things look propitious for the development
of an industry to be established which will
be a source of considerable wealth and
revenue to the Territory.
