[Column 2]
the engagements of a few notable profes-
sionals passing across the continent, served
just to keep alive the dramatic spirit, which
now awaited its re-incarnation in the Home
Dramatic Club of recent fame.
	This club the outcome of the Wasatch
and Azalea Literary societies numbered
among its members, the sons and daughters
of many of the old time histrionic cele-
brities, a generation of amateurs, who drew
their first draughts of dramatic inspiration
from witnessing the performances of twenty
five years ago. Under the tuition of one
of the former-day stars, Mr. David
McKenzie, the club developed a marked
degree of dramatic ability, and when they 
made their first bow to a Salt Lake audience,
in "The Romance of a Poor Young Man"
their success revived the recollection of the
former triumphs of our local artists. The
cast was as follows:

Manuel .............. Laron Cummings.
Dr. Desmarets ............ O. F. Whitney.
Mons De Berannes ........ H. M. Wells.
Gasper Laroque .......... J. D. Spencer.
M. Nouret ................ C. S. Burton.
Alain ...................... H. Horsley.
Marguerite Laroque .. Miss Lottie Claridge.
Mlle Helonin ...... Mrs. Della Cummings.
Mad. Aubrey .......... Miss Lida Wells.
Mad Laroque ........ Mrs. S. H. Clawson.
Christine ............ Little Ivy Clawson.

	The performance was a complete success,
and was presented again and again to still
larger audiences than the one that greeted 
their opening night, thus proving that the 
decadence of home drama was not due to
lack of appreciation on the part of a people
who had loved the Salt Lake stage from
the night when the footlights first blazed
there.
	The personel of the new club did much
to pre-dispose the public in its favor, and
though as years passed on, changes were
made in the organization, the names of the
members remained much the same, younger
branches of the family taking the places of
those who retired for various reasons to
private life. Instead of the heavy dramas
and tragedies which afforded the triumphs
of early days, they aimed at modern me-
thods. For the fire and passion of the
romantic and classical plays they substituted
the finesse and polish of emotional dramas
and eccentric comedies of the present
school, and from the time this club first
produced the "Romance" until the present,
it has continued to be the only dramatic
organization of importance to which the
city could lay claim. During the twelve
years of its existence, the club has presen-
ted a pleasing variety of plays with un-
wavering success. Their repertoire includes
"The Two Orphans" "Rosedale" "Pique"
"Extremes" "The Life of an Actress"
"Saratoga" "Diplomacy" "Storm Beaten"
"The Silver king" " The Banker's Daugh-
ter" "The Green Lanes of England"
"O. K. G." "Lights o'London" "Con-
fusion" and "Hazel Kirke." In "Con-
fusion," which is certainly the most finish-
ed piece of dramatic work ever done by the 
club, Lottie Claridge the leading lady, made
her greatest hit as Lucretia Trickeby, and
John D. Spencer as Christopher Blizzard
gave one of his most delightful characteri-
zations. Among the other members of the 
club (who by the way are all Utah born)
who have distinguished themselves might
be also mentioned Mr. H. M. Wells, the 
leading man, whose rendition of the parts
of Grimaldi in the "Life of an Actress,"

[Column 3]
Bob Sackett in Saratoga, and Christian
Christianson in Storm Beaten are artistic
triumphs; Mr. B. S. Young, who fills a line
of old men, character and comedy delinea-
tions, in a style peculiarly his own; and
Mr. H. G. Whitney who as manager of the
club, has contributed in no small degree to
its financial and dramatic success. Miss
Edith Clawson, might almost be said to
have been cradled on the stage; she was the
reigning "infant" for years, and her por-
trayal of Prince Arthur when Junius Bru-
tus Booth played King John, was one of 
Salt Lake's early theatrical sensations.
When the veteran Couldock was brought
from New York to play an engagement of
six performances with the club in Hazel
Kirke, Edith Clawson took the title role,
and in it soon merited recognition of her
talents as an emotional actress. Her sister,
Birdie Cummings is deservedly popular in 
soubrette roles, in which she has achieved 
decided success, while Ivy Clawson, an-
other member of the same talented family,
is a pleasing actress in ingenue and boy's
parts.
	The club has frequently played, with pro-
fessionals, and has always striven conscien-
tiously to present a high class of theatrical
attractions, and to produce its plays up to
the very best standard. In this endeavor
they have been ably seconded by Mr. C. S.
Burton, the present manager of the Salt
Lake Theater who shows no disposition to
allow the high purposes which animated its
distinguished founder to be swerved from,
and under his management, the theater
maintains its prestige as one of the most
popular dramatic temples of the Western
slope.
	In 1882 the Walker opera house, an ele-
gant and artistically arranged bijou theater
was opened, and until its destruction by 
fire a few years ago, was the scene of many
local and travelling dramatic and operatic
successes.
	Salt Lake City is universally conceded to
be "the best show town in the West" pos-
sessing the best amateur dramatic and
musical organizations in the country, at the
same time, the dramatic taste, critical dis-
cernment, and artistic culture of the com-
munity foreshadow a glorious art future un-
folding for Utah, when one of the brightest
niches in the world's temple of fame will 
be accorded to the genius of the land of the
Honey Bee.


