EXTRACT.

	We ask that women may vote in order
that they may represent themselves, that
they may represent their class. They have
interests to protect as women. Let me in-
stance a case which occured within a week.
The police broke up a disorderly house, ar-
rested a large number of women, and an
equally large number of men, and what fol-
lowed? Every woman was sent to Sher-
born prison; every man was released with-
out penalty. Is that justice? We believe
in one standard of morality for men and
women. There are questions of marriage,
of divorce, of the right of a mother to her
children, of the protection of young girls,
of the rights and interests of widows and
orphans. Why, gentlemen, after forty
years of agitation, there is not a married
woman in Massachusetts who lives with
her husband, that has any legal control or
custody of her children. The husband
may take his young daughter and place
her behind a bar to sell liquor in the city of
Boston, and the wife can have no remedy
unless she leaves her husband, effects a
legal separation, breaks up the family, and
then goes to the Judge of probate and asks
for her child. Is that justice? Can you
imagine that this law in regard to the
custody of children would not be rectified
by this very Legislature, if women had
suffrage? The interests of women are not
represented and are not consulted as they
should be. Not because men desire to do
injustice to women, but because we have
our own affairs to look after. In conclusion
I appeal to you for a moment as members
of political parties. We are all party men;
we ought to be, if we believe in the
principles of our party. Now both parties
today are on trial in Massachusetts, much
more than woman suffrage is on trial.
The political result of municipal suffrage,
when it comes, will largely depend upon
the political complexions of the vote by
which the Legislature confers it. If an
equal proportion of Democrats and Re-
publicans extend suffrage to women, as
they ought to do, for it ought to be the
unanimous vote of both parties, then this
question would have no particular party
significance. Both parties would be up-
lifted. The spirit of both would be
changed by the introduction of the
intelligent womanhood of these parties.
	But let this great act of justice be done
by the Republicans or let it be done by the
Democrats, the other party opposing, and
the party that does the act of justice will
deserve to receive and will receive an im-
mense accession of strength through its
action. Some of you are Republicans,
some of you are Democrats, but which
ever you be, you owe it to your party (be-
cause you believe that the success of your
party is the success of good government)
to see that you get enough men of your
party to vote for it to prevent its having
any political significance against you. It is
suicidal for either party to oppose woman suf-
rage for fear it may injure them. An act of
justice never will. The shortsightedness of
opponents seems to me amazing. Politicans
go round soliciting votes, even buying
votes in some cases, and using every in-
fluence. And here are 500,000 votes in
Massachusetts today, which are going to be
brought into the government. It is for

