[Column 2]
the coming of the ardent sweet-heart to
read his true-love’s words by starlight.
And, if I may tell it, the lilacbush oft holds
many a precious secret silently. How
pleasant to recall the sweet remembrances
that linger round the lilacs that bloomed in
the dear old garden and door-yard of our
early, happy home. A thousand other
beauties come with lilac time and all these
have their place in the affections and
mingle freely with external objects. All
have their associations and call up particu-
lar incidents, persons, or friendships each
one having its own peculiar music, which
finds its echo reverberating thro’ the brain
and the sight of one of these strikes the
chord or touches the note which wakens
responding symphony in the soul, and a
long train of half remembered indistinct
thoughts struggle for recognition in words.

	Spring time and beauty of wood, of field,
of grove and glen, songs of birds, hum of
bees, dance of butter-flies, and e’en the
melancholy croaking of the melancholy
frogs, the jocund and sparkling brooks, the
cerulean sky; these are synonyms of lilac-
time. Thewood violets we call wild, little,
pale delicate emblems of innocence, abound
at this season. How often have I gathered
them in my woodland rambles, and how
grateful was their exquisite fragrance!
How tenderly they appealed to the finer
elements of my nature as I wreathed them
with the soft, fresh, green vines, and my
own love of the fantastic and weird grew
more and more apparent as I listened with
keenest zest to the sounds of forest music.
Only “those who know,” can appreciate 
the feeling that comes to the soul awake to
all the fancies, as well as realities of a
deep wooded dell. The pearly drops of
morning dew on leaf and flower and blade
of grass, the charming atmosphere at sun-
rise, the rich delightful sunsets, the evening
twilight, the starlit nights, the mellow,
healing moonlight—all these are associated
with lilac-time. The early lilies, bright
and beautiful, always reminding us of the
Savior’s words “they toil not, neither do
they spin”—beautiful words which lead us
to “Consider.” In the lilacs the blue-birds
sing and sway on the light boughs and
swallows dart hither and thither, and O
how delightful the music mingles with the
happy thoughts of youth and maiden.
	Then too the apple-orchards bloom, and
daintily the pink and white perfumed leaves
bestrew the ground. The birds are build-
ing their nests and singing pretty songs to
woo their mates meantime, and thus it is
that lilac-time and the pale apple-bloom,
symbolize the love-making. To linger in
the orchards and drink in the sweet fra-
grance in the open air, while the happy
birds keep merry time to the music of fond
hearts, is to partake most freely at nature’s
banquet. It is good for us to commune
thus with nature’s heart, to cultivate in our
souls an intensity of affection for the artistic
works of a divine being, and become en-
deared to Him more and more through our
high appreciation, not only of his love for
us, but all that he has caused to be for our
joy and delectation. Communion with the
mysterious in what is termed the vegetable
kingdom, exalts one’s nature by very con-
tact, and, indeed, when one speaks of heav-
en, or paradise it is always as the place of
immortal flowers, and is associated in the
mind as artistically perfect in all its
characteristics. 			AUNT EM.


