[Column 2]
to national character. The pioneer settlers
who crossed the Rocky Mountains to make
homes in the valley of the Great Salt Lake
were certain in the early stage of their
peculiar civilization to manifest the genius
of music, and the hosts of Israel beguiled
many an hour of their weary march across
the continent by singing the songs of Zion.
	The first musical organization formed in
Utah was a brass band, composed of fifteen
musicians, under the leadership of Captain
William Pitt, which commenced its labors
in 1850 and for several years furnished the
music on every anniversary and local cele-
bration, and assisted the first dramatic as-
sociation in its representations. In 1857
Dominico Ballo, an Italian, highly endowed
with the musical genius of his race came to
Salt Lake City, and electrified the people
with his performances on the clarionet, on
which instrument he was unrivalled, both
in tone, style and execution. Soon after
his arrival he organized “Ballo's Band” of
twenty instruments, viz, seven B flat
clarionets, one E flat, played by himself,
two piccolos, two first cornets, two second
cornets, one opheicleide, three brass horns,
one tenor, trombone and drums. This
combination created great excitement on its
first appearance, and continued to gain
power and renown by its skilful rendition
of some of the most difficult compositions
of the day. Ballo was a fine composer,
though but few of his works survive, and
his name will always be held in reverence
as the most cultured of the musical pioneers
of Utah.
	In 1853 David O. Calder, the pioneer
class teacher of vocal music came to Salt
Lake City, and settled over Jordan where
he taught the first singing school in the
Territory. In 1861 he organized two
classes of two hundred members each for
instruction in the Curwen tonic sol-fa me-
thod, which was the first introduction of
the system in America. He compiled, ar-
ranged and printed the class books used.
In 1862 Mr. Calder organized the Deseret
Musical Association, composed of two hun-
dred picked singers from the different classes
under his tuiton. This society gave several
concerts in the Theater and Tabernacle with
marked success, and during its existence
stimulated musical culture among the peo-
ple of Utah.
	In 1862, Professor Charles J. Thomas,
who had for years been associated with
some of the principal theater orchestras in
London, came to Salt Lake City, and at
once took charge of the orchestra at the
new Salt Lake Theater, then just opened,
and under his leadership it maintained for
several years a high standard of excellence.
As a conductor of the Tabernacle choir,
Professor Thomas did some excellent work,
and he long held a ruling musical position.
	Professor John Tullidge also deserves
mention at this time as a fine tenor singer
and composer. His name will be remem-
bered as long as his anthem “How beauti-
ful upon the mountains" delights the ears
of a Salt Lake audience. 
	The man who did most for the early
musical progress of Salt Lake City, and
the establishment of the legitimate profess-
ion is undoubtedly Professor George Care-
less. Born in London, and trained with
some of the greatest instrumentalists of the
day, under the batons of such masters as
Sir Michael Costa, Sir Jules Benedict, and
other famous conductors, Mr. Careless
brought to Salt Lake City in 1865 such
musical genius, brilliant execution and


[Column 1]
talent for leadership as produced a complete
revolution in musical circles and created
quite a furore of enthusiasm among the
music loving people of the community.
During the earlier years that he held the 
leadership of the Theater orchestra he pro-
duced a number of musical plays, including
Macbeth, The Brigand, Aladdin and
Cinderella, for the two latter he composed
the entire music, consisting of solos, duets
choruses and dramatic interludes. During
this engagement he conducted the first opera
ever given in Utah, the Grand Duchess, by
the Howson troupe,
	In 1875, the great musical event in the
city, was the performance of the oratorio of
the Messiah by the Philharmonic Society,
under the training and conductor-ship of
Professor Careless, with over two hundred
singers, and a full orchestra. The perfor-
mance was a great musical triumph, and 
was pronounced by the critics of the day a
presentation far superior both in its vocal
and orchestral excellence, to the perfor-
mance of the same oratorio in San Francis-
co with Madame Anna Bishop and or the
vocal celebrities in the principal parts. In
the instrumentation, the first violins and
the cornet obligato of Mr. Mark Croxall,
were particularly fine; while among the
vocalists, the palm of excellence belonged
without any question to Mrs. Careless, the
wife of Professor Careless, whose rendition
of “I know that my Redeemer liveth” was
simply perfection. Her pure, sweet, bell-
like tones, and her exquisite delivery, in-
tense with feeling, rose almost in this
selection to the exalted pitch of epic song.
The fact that this oratorio could be execut-
ed in such perfection by a local association,
and call out a high class audience fully
capable of appreciating such music, proves
that Salt Lake City even then was one of
the great musical centers of the world, a
pre-eminence that her subsequent history
proudly maintains.
	Professor Careless also conducted the cele-
brated Parepa Rosa Concerts in 1868, the
Anna Bishop concert in the Tabernacle
and the grand Wilhelmj concerts in the
Theater in 1880, and received from the
great virtuoso the highest praise and many 
marks of personal esteem.
	In 1879, Professor Careless gave Sulli-
van’s opera of “Pinafore” and later “The 
Mikado,” both brilliant successes, and
rendered exclusively by home talent. In
1885 he succeeded in organizing the largest
local orchestra ever brought together in this
city, consisting of forty-five members.
During his partnership in the musical busi-
ness with Mr. D. O. Calder, the firm im-
ported a large number of musical instru-
ments of all kinds, and published the “Salt
Lake Musical Times,” the first musical
publication west of Chicago. For fourteen
years Professor Careless was the trainer
and conductor of the Tabernacle choir, and
by his faithful and unwearied labors, laid
the foundation of that artistic excellence
which rendered its recent brilliant success
possible. To Mrs. Lavinia Careless, be-
longs by right of her rare genius the
highest niche of fame among our musical
stars. With a voice of phenomenal pur ity
and resonance, united with the most perfect
control and culture, she so educated Salt
Lake City audiences to quality and subli-
mity in music, that only a Patti could sing
here without being adversely compared
with her.
	In giving the musical history of Salt

