	So beaten, so bruised and so tost,
Yet embryo Gods straining upward—
	No effort, no agony lost.

I saw grasses gratefully growing,
	Exultingly filling their span;
And trains of ants coming and going,
	So glad to be part of God’s plan.
A chorus of joy filled the spaces
	Between the vast systems of worlds
For Life with its gifts and its graces
	And Death which new vistas unfurls.

I lifted my eyelids; but stricken
	And shriveled as lightning had sped,
I fell like a stone. I had looked in
	The eyes of my God, deep and dread.
Eternity lay there enfolded,
	And mystery fathomless rolled;
But in infinite tenderness spoke He,
	Reviving and strength’ning my soul.

Oh, fearest thou death because lonely?
	E’en so, son of man, was thy birth;
The gates Life and Death admit only
	One soul to or fro from the earth.
You looked in mine eyes and fell shrieking,
	When loneliness ’self you saw there—
Perfection, which all life is seeking,
	Is lonely because yet so rare,

When man feels this presence pervade him,
	From night’s hollow orb, or the roar
Of waves o’er the turbulent ocean,
	My spirit is shadowing o’er,
But upward and evermore upward
	All life grows through pleasure or pain, 
Throngh failure or triumph still mounting
	The cycles of infinite gain.

All good lies enshrined in my bosom,
	Approach thou and freely partake;
Love, Wisdom and Life Everlasting,
	With infinite joy in their wake. 
Come, come! O my children, I call you;
	Mount, mount! By the ways I have trod;
Let Strife, Pain and Death not appal you
	For I am your lonely God.

I awoke, and behold I’d been dreaming;
	I pondered deep truths in my soul;
Night, solitude, death have a seeming
	Of loneliness awful and cold,
Which is God’s holy presence enclouding,
	His voice which in silence we hear,
And death but withdraws the vail shrouding
	A higher and holier sphere.

Though, loth to tread paths unfamiliar,
	Thou shrinkest in cowardly dread,
Of the unknown just seen in the distance,
	Take courage, my soul, lift the head,
For onward and evermore onward
	Progresses a conquering way
To God and His glory; then forward
	Press, fearless,through Night and through Day.

No more let sweet Solitude chill thee,
	Nor moaning winds shake thee with fear, 
Nor Death with cold dread ever fill thee,
	Though draweth he momently near.
Oh, come he today or tomorrow.
	With gladness my feet shall be shod!
And, waiting, I’ll still struggle toward
	The lonely perfection of God.
