How to Choose a Painting Alice Merrill Horne Former Member Relief Society General Board HOW should one go about choosing a painting? When one considers that a good work of art is purchased not for one person, not even for one generation, but for posterity, then one realizes that the most careful study is needful in choosing a painting.
Art is universal. No one country can claim all the gifts. Each individual is endowed with a degree of talent though not every soul is permitted to realize himself. The human soul is the finest instrument and can hardly fail to discern beauty. Even a little child will select the best picture in a collection. The best poem, the greatest symphony, the most profound work of art is declared as such, is set apart as such, by universal taste. Art critics have no part in the selection of masterpieces for the reason that each generation evaluates its own productions thus, we learn to put faith in the masses.
Each nation has pride in its own gifts and seeks to save its best productions, and that is why we visit other countries. In witnessing their handiwork, their precious, treasured paintings and sculptures, we can learn the causes of greatness and can estimate the scale of a nation's attainments and culture. In this way, admiration for the best is developed, establishing friendly relations between nations.
The world's cultural loss because of the present satanic world conflict is of colossal proportions. The heartbreaking truth is that it may take
generation to reveal the full cultural loss that has been sustained by the invaded countries of Europe, Asia, and Africa. The gentle, peaceful countries, now subjected to force, have seen their treasures of arts and crafts, and fabrics of handlooms torn from them. They were ruthlessly pillaged for the low purpose of degrading, impoverishing, and conquering them. Knowing well the value of art, the aggressor nations have thus schemed to lift their own financial and cultural life by seizing art productions from those gentle people who created them.
The world has learned to recognize the need for works of art. Let us consider how a picture is selected for its rightful place in the field of art:
(1) A picture should be a design. Women of this day are truly designminded. It will be easy to get right into the spirit of design. Shall we sit down and design a rug? I have long pictured Relief Society members designing rugs as do the artminded, rug-weaving Orientals.
(2) Every woman desires a tiled bathroom floor, so let us design such a floor.
(3) Make a design for a counterpane using the motif grapes, grape leaves, or a petunia. Oak leaf and acorn pattern could be used.
(4) Do you make real lace? Then you would find a delightful exercise in creating a rose design for a real lace collar.
(5) Make a sego lily design for a bedroom pillow. Page  (6) Using the mountain maidenhair fern and a wild rose, create a design for a tablecloth. (7) By this time you will be prepared to design a picture. Design your Picture Go out with your sketching pad and colored crayons, and put in a blue sky with a white cloud. Place a hill with white snow patches that will repeat the white cloud. Draw in a farmhouse. Now add a group of Cottonwood trees which will seem to love and protect the house. Make a path that leads to the front steps. The trees will have some leaf buds opening, to repeat the greens on the lawn and garden in front of the house. R Now organize what you have sketched into a diamond in a square. Millet liked to compose his pictures that way. Values in a Picture Look at your picture and answer these important questions: 1. Is the sky a dome or is it flat like a vertical wall? 2. Does the foreground come forward to meet you? 3. Does the background stay back? 4. Does the farmhouse stay in front of the trees? 5. Do the trees stay in front of the hill? 6. Is the sky behind the hill? 7. Do you feel there is another side to the hill? 8. Does the path come to you? If you answer "yes" to these questions, you have what artists name "good values." The "values" of a painting is important for you want to feel spatial relations. It would feel awkward to make a house you could not walk around. A Dominating Theme In your picture there should be a dominating subject. You might use a dozen other subjects, but each and all of these should be subservient to the main point of interest. So, please, do not choose a painting which is divided in interest, in other words, constitutes two pictures instead of one. Therefore, always search for the dominating theme and discover if all of the minor details are needed to strengthen the dominating theme. An exercise in Painting greens An artist once asked me to give him a criticism on his exhibition. Three paintings hung side by side: The first, Yellowstone Park; the second. Southern Utah; the third. Salt Lake Valley looking toward the Wasatch Mountains. "I fear you will not like my criticism." "Please tell me what you see in my work." Nothing could keep me from giving an honest criticism where it was so much needed. "You are lazy. You are not observing. The way you paint green accuses you. Green is what the light makes it. Your greens seem to have all been mixed in one pot. Notice that the greens at the top, as well as at the bottom in your Yellowstone Mountain, are exactly like the patches of green at the top and bottom of the Wasatch Mountains. Now compare the greens on your Dixie Mountain. There is no variation. If you will study the greens in any landscape, such as you have painted here, I am sure you will find light greens, dark greens, warm greens, and cool greens. Do you need glasses or is it laziness working on you, that you do not see that the greens at top, bottom, and middle distance are very different?" When I saw his work a year later, it had changed markedly, and how he was enjoying the greens.
Horticulture versus Variety
Do you like pictures of trees? It is a favorite subject of mine, especially the way the spaces between the trees are painted is of vital interest. A row of trees exactly alike with spaces between equally uninteresting would satisfy a horticulturist, but so much monotony would slay an art critic. No two spaces should be alike. In your favorite picture of trees you may find several little pictures in between like trunks and boughs of trees.
Inasmuch as you are buying a picture for yourself and posterity, remember always that the best picture is worth two of the second best, three of the third best, and I do not recommend the fourth best for posterity.
Europe has many collections that have been brought together for
posterity. It is ever true that nations are known and remembered by what was accomplished in art before that nation was cleft in twain by designing men of that or some other land.
After all, there are only two kinds of art, good and bad and, oh yes, there is the middling good which, like the middling good egg, can't be used. The better a work of art is, the more people recognize its superiority. So-called art critics praise gawky productions, such as nudes painted from wooden mannekins with the human figure distorted, but just so long as the great common class does not admire such work, it will be recognized as bad art.
Best Pictures Survive
Pictures that lift the taste of the people are of great and lasting worth. But, after all, something is of still greater importance; namely, the artists who paint the good pictures. Without the artists, there can be no progress in art, but if the artists are loved by the people, supported by the people, why might we not have a renaissance of our own? But whatever happens, we must continue to buy good pictures for the sake of posterity.
AN INESTIMABLE JEWEL
It is not merely for today but for all time to come that we should perpetuate for our children's children that great and free government which we have enjoyed all our lives. I beg you to remember this, not merely for my sake, but for yours. I happen, temporarily, to occupy the White House. I am a living witness that any one of your children may look to come here as my father's child has. It is in order that each one of you may have, through this free government which we have enjoyed, an open field and a fair chance to develop your own genius and intelligence that you may all have equal privileges in the race of life, with all its desirable human aspirations. It is for this the struggle should be maintained that we may not lose our birthright not only for one lifetime but for two or three years. The matter of the world is worth fighting to maintain for this inestimable jewel. A. Lincoln