Mrs. Priscilla Paul Jennings. The recent resignation of Mrs. Priscilla Paul Jennings as Chairman of the School of Obstetrics and Nursing on the General Board of the Relief Society gives rise to many sad and pleasurable comments. It is a sorrow to part with the efficient labors of one so enthusiastic and devoted to the cause which is represented by this School of Nursing. Mrs. Jennings has been a devoted friend and inspirer of young girls all her life. When but a mere girl she organized a sewing club and gave work to many in the early days who were in destitute circumstances. Along in the seventies her active mind conceived the value of industrial education for women and the beautiful home of her husband, Devereaux House, was the scene of many classes of sewing girls who were thus taught independence and the art of needlework at the same time. She personally solicited work from the stores and gave her services free to the girls in the lesson work. The small factory which grew up from this enterprise became a wonderful help to the young community. Mrs. Jennings was born March 25, 1838, in Truro, Parish of Kenwyn, Cornwall, England. Her father, William Paul, was born May 3, 1803, in the same shire. Her parents joined the Church in the year 1845 when Mrs. Jennings was but seven years old. Their home was made open house for the elders until their emigration to Utah in 1854. July 28, 1855, she was married to the popular and prosperous merchant William Jennings. On the death of his first wife she reared their children (one of them a babe scarcely a month old which, however, died in infancy) to manhood and womanhood. Mrs. Jennings was and is one of our best types of the English gentlewoman. Elegant in her manners, dignified in her deportment, charming in her taste, her very atmosphere breathes refinement and poise. Endowed with the most generous impulses she has been wonderfully helpful in all public and philanthropic enterprises where women's taste, activities and faithfulness are necessary factors. She has assisted in the decoration and interior furnishings of many public buildings, where her love of the beautiful could find ample expression. Hospitable to the last degree, her home has been the scene of unnumbered beautiful and successful social functions. Of her it can be said that wealth has but been an added opportunity for deeper devotion to the gospel and more active service in its promulgation. She has been a wise steward over the things which have been assigned to her care. Mrs. Jennings was chosen to act on the General Board of the Relief Society in Oct., 1901, and since that time she has faithfully acquitted all the duties which have been imposed upon her. Prevented by her health from traveling very much, she has given more attention to the work of detail in committees and in general service at headquarters. For many years she labored as a temple worker in the Salt Lake Temple and greatly enjoyed her activities in that sacred house. Mrs. Jennings' retirement from the committee caused a feeling of sadness in the General Board, but the place vacated was filled by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams who was already Chairman of the Public Health Committee. The action of the Board combined the activities of the two committees under the able chairmanship of Mrs. Williams and we may confidently expect no diminution of service or activity from the new committee which will now be formed. It is true that the work is greater than any individual and yet how true it is likewise that as with the head so with the body. "Show me a bishop," said Brigham Young, "and I will tell you the condition of his ward." The General Board are fortunate in the active association of such faithful women as these and we are happy to present to our members throughout the Society the portrait of our beloved General Board member, Mrs. Priscilla Paul Jennings. RELIEF SOCIETY CANTATA.

We are proud and grateful to announce to our readers the publication of the charming Cantata The Open Door which was so beautifully presented by the Granite Stake Relief Society, at our recent General Relief Society Conference. The music was composed by our active musician and choir leader, Mrs. Lucy M.