Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. Eastern States Mission. Pittsburgh. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley and Mrs.

Amy B. Lyman has just returned from attending the National Council of Charities and Corrections in Pittsburg, Pa. While in Pittsburg, they had the privilege of visiting the local Relief Society, which they found to be in splendid working condition, with capable officers and wide-awake members. The President of this organization is Mrs. Annie H. Rhinehart, a sympathetic and charming woman who acts in the capacity of a real mother to the members of the branch, to the missionary boys and girls. It will be interesting to Relief Society workers to learn something of the methods used in the Eastern and Northern States missions for the purpose of stimulating Relief Society work, and of raising funds for the maintenance of the local branches.

Eastern States Mission. Following are some extracts from a letter recently received from Miss Margaret Edward, President of the Relief Societies in the Eastern States mission: "In Philadelphia, a bazaar was given in a rented hall, where supper was served at 25c a plate. Quilts, domestic articles, and needlework were sold, the proceeds amounting to $100.81. After paying expenses, there was a net gain of $25. In Pittsburg, a similar affair was given, at which $50 was cleared. This is the second bazaar given within a year, the two clearing over $100. At Charleston, West Virginia, the first bazaar ever attempted was held, and $25 cleared. At Toronto, Canada, the Society also held its first bazaar, netting $15 therefrom. I certainly feel that the women of our mission deserve great credit for the efforts they are putting forth in Relief Society work. Each branch consists of only a mere handful of people, and I doubt if the members in Utah would accomplish as much as these do, under the circumstances. In most of the branches, the Relief Society is attempting to purchase individual sacrament sets. I wish to quote from a letter of Mrs. Harriet Westmacott, regarding the Magazine. Mrs. Westmacott is president of the Relief Society at Toronto, Canada. 'The Magazine seems as a friend to me, who is telling me of the good news of our Society and Church, so we should not like to be without it. The General Board gives us so many good things that we each and all should gain much knowledge that we could put into practice in our daily duties, if carefully considered."