Vol. 40.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1912						No. 9.


[Column 1]
		THE “EXPONENT.”
	On the first day of June, nineteen hun-
dred twelve, the WOMAN’S EXPONENT will
have reached its fortieth anniversary. Meas-
ured by human life and accomplishment,
forty years is a long time. Forty years
the children of Israel wandered in the wil-
derness. Forty years
elapsed between the
laying of the corner
stone and the laying
of the capstone of the
Salt Lake Temple. So
forty years represents
a goodly age for a
periodical, especially
such forty as those
last past. What a vast
amount of history this
little sheet has been
able to accumulate
and record! What
changes in the world’s
condition! What dis-
coveries of new lands,
new elements! What
linking of nations
with steel and wire,
the overthrow of
kingdoms and princi-
palities and the build- 
ing up of new and
broader government!
What marvelous de-
velopment in art, sci-
ence, and literature, 
and the greatest pos-
sible educational ad-
vancement! Aye, this
little eight-page pa-
per has chronicled
from year to year
such interesting and
worthy knowledge
that the yellow lines
of its bound volumes
are more precious
than fine gold.
	Its pages have
largely been devoted
to the progress, ad-
vancement, and work
of women; that
knowledge in itself is
a marvel to contem-
plate, for forty years
ago woman did not
hold in the world’s
activities a very en-
larged place. In Jan-
uary, 1870, the legis-
lature of the Terri-
tory of Utah passed an
act enfranchising the women of this com-
monwealth. The act was duly signed by
acting Governor Mann, the Federal ap-
pointee of President Ulysses S. Grant, and
at a municipal election the following month
the women cast their first ballot. Miss
Seraph Young, a grand-niece of President
Brigham Young, was the first woman in

[Column 2]
the territory to cast a ballot at a general
election.
	The women of Utah had always taken an
active part in the settlement and develop-
ment of the community, and through their
splendid organization, the Relief Society,
had wielded a strong and forceful influence;
so when the suffrage was given them the

[caption to a blank image space]
“THE EXPONENT,” FORTY YEARS AGO.

time was surely ripe for a woman’s paper
wherein they might better tell to those in
the world who would read, the truth about
their condition, sentiments and position. Ed-
ward L. Sloan, the gifted editor of the Salt
Lake Herald, was probably the one who
took the initiative in the matter. Realizing
that the time was propitious and the field in-

[Column 3]
viting, he suggested the thought to Miss
L. Lula Greene, a young writer of promise,
of starting a woman’s paper. Miss Greene
was a grand-niece of President Brigham
Young, and she immediately wrote her uncle
a letter for advice in the matter. He sent for
Eliza R. Snow and other leading women,
and put the matter before them. The result
of the conference was
the starting of a pa-
per and Miss Greene
was summoned to be-
come the first editor.
President Young gave
the work to her as a
mission; and had it
not been for this phase
of the call, in all prob-
ability the inexperi-
enced young woman
would have hesitated
long before assuming
such an unusual un-
dertaking. However,
what her whole life
has shown was shown
in her youth—she
was obedient to coun-
sel; and she entered
upon her novel duties
with a firm resolve to
do her best with the
Lord’s help. She
brought to the work
the freshness and
fragrance of youthful
enthusiasm subdued
by a religious senti-
ment; and her work
will stand unique
among her people for
the beginning of a pa-
per that has wrought
so much of good. The
felicitous and expres-
sive name EXPONENT
was given by Presi-
dent Young, and the
paper was to pro-
claim the views and
sentiments of the
women of the Latter-
day Saints.
	Miss Greene was
married to Levi W.
Richards in 1874, and
her home duties de-
manding first atten-
tion, it became neces-
sary to have an as-
sociate editor. For
this position, the
choice naturally fell 
upon Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, who had been a valued con-
tributor to the paper both of prose and
poetry. Shortly after Mrs. Richards with-
drew altogether from editorial work, and
Mrs. Wells became editor, a position held by
her to the present time, a period of over
thirty-five years, all the time keeping it in
the eight-page newspaper form. Perhaps


[Column 1]
after forty years some think its dress old-
fashioned, perhaps some think its style not
up-to-date; but its struggles and victories
have endeared it as it is to patrons as well
as publisher; while as to its past, the record
and recital of the trials and triumphs, not
only of the women of Utah but of the
women of the world, as told in its columns,
old-fashioned though its form may be, has
been more truthfully and forcefully given
than in any other paper in existence. For the
EXPONENT lays proud claim to the double
distinction that it was not only the second
woman’s paper published west of the Mis-
sissippi river, but that it is now the second
oldest woman’s paper in the United States,
if not in the whole world.
	The EXPONENT has had many homes if
not many editors. It started out in the old
Herald building on West Temple street and
was published by the Herald Publishing
company, its delivery department being
handled by the Campbell and Patterson
book store just south of the Constitution
block on Main street. President Young,
however, who was always a patron and ad-
visor of the editors, wanted to have the of-
fice nearer the Church headquarters and of-
fered an office building on the corner of
State and South Temple streets, the present
location of the Alta Club. At this time the
services of Miss Cornelia Horne were se-
cured for the paper in the capacity of busi-
ness manager, while Miss Annie Wells was
assisting in the work in the office. After
President Young’s death in August, 1877,
the office was moved to the old Constitution
building. While located there, President
John Taylor made a visit to the editor, Mrs.
Wells, gave her words of praise and en-
couragement for the work of the paper, and
immediately provided a more comfortable
and suitable home for it in a large room on
the first floor of the old Council House, the
present site of the News building. He had
the room beautifully furnished, and gave
the editor every possible encouragement in
her work. In 1882, the Council House was
destroyed by fire and almost all the property
belonging to the paper, including not only
the elegant furnishings but reference books,
bound volumes, back numbers, valuable pa-
pers, etc., were destroyed. The EXPONENT
then found a home in the brick building on
Main street owned by President Daniel H.
Wells, where a part of Z. C. M. I. now
stands, and later moved to the “little house
behind the wall” on South Temple street,
about where the east end of the Hotel Utah
extends. It was here that Punditi Ramabai
came to visit the “charming little Mormon
woman editor and suffragist” and Edmund
Russell wrote in the editor’s “guest book”:
“Not the first guest to the little house be-
hind the historic wall—if every one who
has found pleasure in its welcome had
taken away a stone not one would be stand-
ing now—May it never be torn down and
may we long find the same welcome behind
it.” But alas, it was soon to be torn down,
both the historic wall and the house, to make
room for modern improvements; and the
EXPONENT again found a home in the Con-
stitution building, this time, however, re-
modeled and more convenient. When the
Templeton Hotel was turned into an office
building Mrs. Wells was one of the first
applicants for office room for her paper, and

[Column 2]
she remained there until the Bishop’s build-
ing, where the Woman’s Relief Society were
to have headquarters, was ready for oc-
cupancy, and where now the paper has, we
trust, found a permanent location.
	The office of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
during all these years and with its many
changes of location has always been the
headquarters of the Relief Society, and the
columns of the paper have been largely de-
voted to Relief Society work. The motto of
the paper has been the “Rights of the
Women of Zion and the Rights of the
Women of all Nations”; and the aim has
been to encourage all effort for good and
reform and advancement among all classes,
especially among the Latter-day Saints. The
untiring efforts of the editor to bring out
young writers, uplift the discouraged, help
people to discover themselves, develop
latent talent and encourage women in dif-
ferent avocations, has been one of her most
marked characteristics, and her paper is
a great part of her life’s work. What plans
she may have for the future of the EX-
PONENT are yet to be unfolded; but the past
certainly constitutes an enduring monument
of noble work that can never be torn down.
Forty years on the First of June! May each
succeeding forty years be lived as worthily!
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Vol 1.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1872			No. 1.


[Column 1]
		NEWS AND VIEWS.

	Women are now admitted to fifty Ameri-
can colleges.
	Rev. De Witt Talmage is pronounced a
success as a sensation preacher.
	Theodore Tilton says the best brains in
northern New York are wearing white hats.
They might wear chapeaux of a more objec-
tionable color.
	Daniel W. Voorhees in one day destroyed
the political record of a life-time, and that
was when he became henchman to a judge
with an eclesiastical mission.
	An Alabama editor writes “United State,”
and refuses to write “United States”—a
straw to show how Southern sentiment runs.
What a state he must be in?
	The season of scattering intellectual filth
has set in over the country. It occurs quad-
rennially in the United States, commencing
a few months before the Presidential elec-
tion.
	Dr. Newman failed to become a Bishop at
the Methodist General Conference, and Dr.
Newman mourns this second great defeat.
He has remembrances of Salt Lake in con-
nection with the previous one.
	Great outcry is raised against the much
marrying of the Latter-day Saints. The
tendency of the age is to disregard marriage
altogether, but there seems no indication of
a desire to have the race die out.
	The “Alabama” muddle like “confusion
worse confounded” becomes worse mixed
the more it is stirred. It stretches itself
over the path of time, and “like a wounded
snake drags its slow length along.” The
country has become heartily sick of it.
	Some Eastern journals head their Utah
news with “Deseret.” With keen appreci-
ation of the coming and inevitable, they ac-
cept the mellifluous name chosen for the
rcgion wrested by that industry which
“the honey bee” represents, from the barren
wilds of nature.
	George Francis Train sends us a bundle of
Train Ligues. The compliment is appre-
ciated, but the act is like sweetness wasted.
We can vote, but not for “the next Presi-
dent of America.” Utah has not become
Deseret yet, nor can it participate in Presi-
dent making.
	The last week of May, 1872, will be me-
morable in American annals as the first time
since the first ordinance of secession was
passed in the South, that both houses of
Congress had their full list of members.
Statesmanship can retain a complete Federal
legislature, but the article has grown some-
what scarce.
	To pardon the worst class of criminals on
condition that they emigrate to the United
States, is growing in favor with European
monarchies. Germany and Greece so far
have done the largest business in this line,
the latest batch of villains thus disposed of
being the Marathon murderers from Greece.
Orders have been forwarded by President
Grant to New Orleans, to which port it is
understood they have been sent, to prevent
their landing. They should be captured,
ironed, returned to Athens with Uncle Sam-
uel’s compliments, and a bill for direct and
“consequential” damages presented.

[Column 2]
	News comes from France that trailing
dresses for street wear are going out of fash-
ion. So many absurd and ridiculous fashions
come from Paris that the wonder is thinking
American women do not, with honest repub-
lican spirit, reject them entirely. This lat-
ter one, however, is so sensible that its im-
mediate adoption will be an evidence of good
sense wisely directed.
	The anti-Mormon bill of Judge Bingham
seems to have fared no letter in the judi-
ciary committee of the House of Represent-
atives than the one to which Mr. Voorhees
stood sponsor. It is gratifying to think that
a majority of that committee yet respect the
antiquated and once revered instrument
still occasionally referred to as the Constitu-
tion.
	Rev. James Freeman Clark claims “that if
it is an advantage to vote, women ought to
have it; if a disadvantage men ought not to be
obliged to bear it alone.” Speaki[-]g from ex-
perience we feel safe in affirming that the Rev.
gentleman is right, and we hope for a time
when this immunity may be universally enjoy-
ed by our pure-minded and light-loving sisters.
We don’t presume that those belonging to the
opposite class care anything about it.
	Mrs. Carrie F. Young, editor of the “Pa-
cific Journal of Health,” has been lecturing
in Idaho on Temperance and Woman Suf-
frage. The editor of the “Idaho World”
was not present, but did not regret his ab-
sence. He says, “We feel a most decided
repugnance to the exhibition of a woman
upon the rostrum, advocating such degrad-
ing theories as ‘woman suffrage’ and other
cognate subjects.” He omits to state
whether “Temperance” is one of the “de-
grading theories” to which he refers.
	Force is ever the argument of a bad
cause. The principles which cannot be over-
come except by the exercise of physical
power, present a front that arrests the atten-
tion of thinking minds. Where argument
fails and force is employed to overcome an
opponent, the power of the principles to
which opposition is made is admitted. Will
those who urge repressive legislation against
the people of Utah think of it? Witness
the Voorhees bill as an illustration.
	A notable event, as a result of the late
terrible Franco-German war, is the opening
of the German University in Strasbourg,
which takes place June 1st—to-day. That
famous city on the Rhine, after a siege me-
morable in the annals of warfare, passed
into the hands of the Germans, and now
they take the surest means to permanently
consolidate their power, by establishing
there one of those seats of learning for which
Germany has become enviably famous.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, it is said, de-
clared before the Cincinnati Convention met,
that if it gave her cause “the cold shoul-
der,” she would go to Philadelphia and
pledge the ballots of the women of America
to U. S. Grant. As the women of America
are yet without ballots, and as it is very
questionable, if they had them, whether they
would authorize any single individual to
pledge them for any candidate, the supposi-
tion is fair that Miss Anthony possesses too
much good sense to have made any such
declaration.

[Column 3]
	Rev. Mr. Peirce, a Methodist clergyman
who has made Salt Lake his headquarters
for some time, in lecturing cast proposed
the extinction of polygamy by the introduc-
tion here of vast quantities or expensive
millinery goods, and by inducing “Gentile” 
women to dress in gorgeous style that “Mor-
mon” women might imitate them and run
up such heavy dry goods bills that it would 
be impossible for a man to support more
than one wife, if even one. Mr. Peirce, no 
doubt, preaches modesty and humility occa-
sionally, by way of variety; now he recom-
mends the encouragement of pride, vanity
and extravagance to accomplish his “Chris-
tian” designs. The course he advises has 
been largely followed in many places, has
tenanted brothels, aid[-]d to fill prisons, bro-
ken up families, hurled women of reputa-
tion and position down to degradation and
infamy, and has met heavy denunciations
from inspired men whom Mr. Peirce profes-
ses to revere. He would steal the livery of
evil to serve religion in. There is not much
of this reverend gentleman, and what little
there is must be either very silly or very
wicked.
	The editor of “The Present Age” has
been to a church and heard an orthodox ser-
mon, in which the preacher took occasion to
say that all religious “isms,” including Mo-
hammedanism, Mormonism and Spiritual-
ism, rested their claims for being true “upon
miracles." The “Age” is a Spiritualist and
denies that his “ ism” basis its claims to lie
true upon miracles. Latter-day Saints deny
that Mormonism basis any claim for cre-
dence in it on miracles; the reverse is the
truth. The “Age” defines a miracle to be
“the setting aside for the time being of a
natural law to meet an unexpected emer-
gency.” Had he said a miracle was the
bringing into operation of certain natural
laws not generally understood or compre-
hended, he would have been nearer correct.
When somebody can tell how a natural law
may be or can be set aside, except by the
operation of some other natural law, his defi- j
nition, which is the generally received one,
may be entitled to more consideration. We
imagine the working of the overland tele-
graph Is as-great a miracle to the Cheyenne
Indians as any recorded miracle that the
“Age” or the orthodox minister can quote.
	Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon attended the
Cincinnati Convention and claimed a seat as
a delegate from California. Her claim was
treated with hisses and laughter. She took
a position in front of the stand and endeav-
ored to speak, but her voice was drowned 
by a tumultuous discord. Her persistence
in seeking to address an assemblage that
treated her claim in such a manner was un-
dignified; while the action of the Conven-
tion in receiving her with hisses and uproar-
ious laughter, was disgraceful. The Liberal
Republicans assembled in Cincinnati for a
general work of purification and reform, evi-
dently stood greatly in need of general re-
form themselves, in the matter of manners
as well as in politics. Mrs. Gordon was as
much entitled to a seat in that Convention
as Carl Schurz himself, for we have yet to
learn that the call for it specified that
“male” Republicans only were admissable.
	A new periodical in London is called
“The Ladies.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NINETEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY
				HALL.
	The following paper was read by Sister
Agnes G. Branch, secretary, at the dedica-
tion services May 7, 1912, when the Relief
Society building was dedicated by Bishop
Osborne J. P. Widstoe, at which were pres-
ent more than one hundred. Among these
were Bishop Barton, Sister Wells, general
president of Relief Society, and counselors,
Sisters Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L.
Smith, and Sister Harker, president of the
Salt Lake Stake and counselors, and friends
from the Twenty-second and Twenty-
fourth wards:
	In the year 1897, the Relief Society of the
Nineteenth Ward, Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
began to accumulate means for the erection
of a little home of their own. From fairs,
voluntary donations from members, profits
from excursions, and dances they had in the
bank Jan. 1 1901 the amount of $338.64.
About this time they sold their little old
house on Third North. Adding the money
they had already collected to this, they pur-
chased the ground on Center Street. Later,
by advice of Bishop Barton, they exchanged
that piece for the ground on which this
building stands. The size of the land thus
secured would have made it necessary to
build flush with the sidewalk, but through
the kindness of the Bishop, the Society was
allowed the privilege of more ground in the
back, belonging to the Ward Hall, in order
to make the building look good and to have
the lobby or entrance.
	Having secured a suitable piece of ground
Ann S. Neal, then president, gave this par-
ticular part of the business over to Sister
Annie Rawlings, then her first counselor.
The work of collecting means went slowly
but steadily along. When Sister Rawlings
was appointed president, she said that we
would build when we had $1,000 in the
bank, and to reach this every effort was put

[Column 2]
forth. April 5 to 8, 1902, a lunch room
was conducted on Richards Street for con-
ference visitors, netting the sum of $54.
Other ward fairs were held; more volun-
tary donations from members received of
from 5 cents to $1.00; a sewing committee
was organized, and quiltings and sewing
bees were held all over the ward, wherever
a kind sister would open her home for this
work, as all this time we were without a
home of any kind. The committee carried
bundles of cotton and the material for these
quilts and aprons to these places, and the
finished articles home to store in their
houses, until they were known by this trade
mark.
	The Society had $1,176.39 in the bank
Dec. 31, 1905, when their dream was shat-
tered by the division of the ward and our
dear mother gave her departing children,
the Twenty-fourth Ward, $500 of the money
on hand. Now, with fewer members to
work and raise funds, they kept up the
struggle, until 1908, when Bishop Barton
advised Sister Rawlings to have the ward
canvassed for pledges of money for support.
A committee of sisters did very good work,
and the people were very generous, and be-
tween $400 and $500 was collected in this
way. Many of the members have faithfully
paid their 10 cents a month, and the sisters
have spent many, many days in sewing, thus
making a small profit by careful buying and
cutting of material. In 1910, Bishop Widt-
soe, successor of our friend Brother Barton,
called all the organizations together, and
planned for a ward fair from which $173
was realized and given us for our share of
the work.
	Great credit is due to Sister Chestina
Trescott, secretary, and to Sister Rebecca
J. Asper, secretary of the building fund.
You may look over their books and find
credit given for every cent collected or dis-
bursed, be the amount as small at 5 cents.
	Now our dear president desires to extend
her thanks to the Bishopric for their recent
gift of $100; to all auxiliary organizations
who have helped in any way; to Brothers
Irvine and Wright for planting the lawn;
to those who have donated dishes; those
who have cleaned and kept the building
comfortable, in the nearly three years it has
been built; to all who have helped in any
way to erect this hall, and to lift the burden,
which she has carried since the commence-
ment of the building fund; and she also
would say that not one cent of the money
collected for the poor has ever been con-
verted to this or any other purpose but the
comfort of the poor; and that she has al-
ways been guided in her every act by those
in authority over her; and now offers this
little building, of which we are very proud,
with her love and blessing for dedication.
	Paid for the hall with interest $2,126.20;
in addition, William Asper drew plans,
wrote specifications and superintended the
construction of the hall, all gratis, which
saved us the amount of $75; paid building
permit, $1.50; taxes for sidewalk, $20.44;
clearing real estate, $35.25; blinds, $12.00;
Twenty-fourth Ward, $500.00; making a
total collection of $2,695.39.


Mrs. Susie Wissler, a widow, has been
elected Mayor of Dayton, Wyo., on the in-
dependent ticket. A majority of the votes
were cast by women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[image]
THE “EXPONENT’S” FIRST EDITOR.
	[The above picture represents Mrs. L. Lula
Greene Richards as she appeared forty years
ago when the EXPONENT was first issued. The
following beautiful poem is her latest literary
effort and was written specially for this anni-
versary number.]


THE ONE PERFECT LIGHT AND
			POWER SYSTEM.
	You Are Invited to Investigate and Take
				Shares.
There is a King whose kingdom, not of earth,
Sheds forth a Light of such transcendent
		worth,
	Compared therewith all worldly lights are
		pale;
In all that wealth, shareholder you may be;
The shares, unlimited, are also free;
	Humility and honesty prevail,
	With these two requisites you cannot fail.

The King is also God, with Power Supreme;
His work is real, no speculative dream;
	All who invest are furnished work to do;
And power to do their tasks, their shares se- 
		cure;
To those who serve, large dividends are sure;
	Integrity keeps all both safe and true;
	No one can touch that which belongs to you.

Not only King and God, but changeless Friend,
To all who on His faithfulness depend:
	Have you known friendship—know you then
		its source?
It rests with Him, He through His grace im-
		parts
Its warmth and sweetness unto mortal hearts;
	To prove His friend gives influ’nce of such
		force,
	No adverse pow’r can stay the upward course.

O, more than these! The great Instructor, He,
Of all true art and science holds the key;
	Inspires all energies that stand for good;
Strengthens the weak, guides and directs the
		strong,
Leads right by wisdom to subdue the wrong;
	Yea, more, stands forth as from the first He
		stood;
	Omnipotent, Eternal Fatherhood!

My King, my God, Friend, Teacher, Father,
		Thou,
With all Thy Light and Power, dost allow
	Thy faulty, failing child, myself, to be
In the high classes Thou Thyself dost teach,
Forgiven, soothed, kept safe within Thy reach.
	Fed, clothed, housed, taught, beloved—all
		blessings free—
	And near, and nearer, as I write, to Thee!
				—L. LULA GREENE RICHARDS.
	Salt Lake City, May, 1912.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	At her home in Fillmore, April 23, 1912,
Isabella E. Robinson departed this life after
an illness of one day. She was the daugh-
ter of Parley P. Pratt and Belinda M. Pratt
and was born September 1, 1854, in Salt
Lake City. Her father was one of the early
converts to the faith of the Latter-day Saints
and was one of the original quorum of the
Twelve Apostles; he was assassinated while
doing missionary work in Arkansas in the 
summer of 1857, leaving the subject of this
sketch fatherless in her early childhood. She
came with her mother to Fillmore in 1871,
where on April 10, 1872, she became the
wife of Alonzo Robinson, and bore him
twelve children, eleven of whom survive her.
She has been a public spirited woman and
served the people in all of the Church or-
ganizations, and as County Recorder for two
terms, and also a member of the Board of
Education, in which position her aim was
for the betterment of the public school sys-
tem, and higher morals for the youth of 
Zion. On November 14, 1904 she was ap-
pointed to the position of President of Re-
lief Societies of Millard Stake which posi-
tion she held up to the time of her death.
	Funeral services were held in the Ward 
chapel which had been appropriately dec-
orated, and were conducted by Bishop P. L.
Brunson.
	Elders A. A. Hinckley, O. L. Thompson
of the Stake Presidency, Willis E. Robin-
son, J. D. Smith, C. Anderson and P. L.
Brunson each spoke in the highest terms of
the good work and the noble and exemplary
life of the deceased. By her death we are
deprived of a valiant worker, a loving and 
devoted wife and mother, and a consistent
Latter-day Saint. The following resolutions
were read by the Fillmore Relief Society:

			RESOLUTIONS:
	Whereas:
	A loving wife and mother, Sister Isabella
E. Robinson, has been suddenly called by
death, and
	Whereas:
	The said Sister Isabella E. Robinson was
the daughter of one of the early leaders of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, Elders Parley P. Pratt, and she her-
self one of the pioneers of early days into
this then Western wilderness, and during all
the years intervening from then until strick-
en with death she has been a devoted and
consistent Latter-day Saint, an untiring
worker, both in temporal and spiritual af-
fairs. She was an intellectual, high-minded 
woman; a woman righteously devoted to her 
home and children, a dutiful wife, a loving
mother, a hospitable friend and neighbor.
She was trusting as a child, always with
an abiding faith in the goodness of God;
she was always humble and lived a simple 
honest life. She never complained though
often her lot was hard, but faithful, and sub-
missively struggled on to the very end; al-
ways inspiring faith, love, and duty in the
hearts of all she met. Her thoughts were
rich and pure, her mind was a great store of
useful knowledge; good books were her con-
stant companions. Truly of this good wom-
an may it be said: She was a noble char-
acter, hers was a beautiful life.
	“Strength and honor are her clothing; and
she shall rejoice in time to come. She open-
eth her mouth with wisdom; and her tongue 
is the law of kindness. She looketh well

[Column 2]
to the ways of her household, and eateth not
the bread of idleness. Her children arise up
and call her blessed; her husband also, and
he praiseth her. Many daughters have done 
virtuousyl, but thou excellest them all.”—
Proverbs 31: 25-29
	Therefore,
	Be it resolved by the officers and members
of the Fillmore Relief Society, that we deep-
ly regret the loss of our beloved Stake Pres-
ident Sister Isabella E. Robinson, and we
extend our sympathy and condolence to the
relatives and family of the deceased and say
unto them: emulate the noble characteristics
of this good woman.
	To her children we would say: let her
life be your guide. Be comforted in the 
thought that she was good and pure, and 
that she is now in the presence of God.

“Mother Dear, sacred name, and sweet; how slow
	we are to prove,
The height and depth and deathlessness of per-
	fect mother love.
We take her tender daily care, just as the thought-
	less flowers
Look up to God for daily light, because we
	know ’tis ours.
But when we miss, from heart and life, the com-
	fort of her care,
Then we must learn to live without her presence
	and her prayer.
’Tis then the name of Mother is to us a holy
	thing;
And hovering low, we seem to feel the shelter of
	a wing.”

	Another faithful Relief Society worker
passed to the great beyond—Sister Phoebe
Jones died at the home of her daughter,
Mrs. Wm. Hill at St. John, Ida., Monday
evening, Feb. 26th. Mrs. Jones was born at
Tredegar, South Wales, in 1841. She joined
the Church of Latter-day Saints at the age 
of fourteen years. When twenty-one years
of age she left home and family and im-
migrated with the people of her choice, and
after a long and perilous journey across the
plains by ox teams she landed in Salt Lake
City in the fall of ’62. She moved to Wil-
lard, Utah, in ’63, and after residing there
eleven years, she came to St. John and had
been a resident of this place about twenty-
eight years. She was the mother of eleven
children of whom five survive her. Besides
her five children, who are bereft of a
mother, she leaves three brothers and one
sister, twenty-six grandchildren and twelve
great-grandchildren, and a host of other rel-
atives and friends.
	She was elected president of the Relief
Society ten years ago, which position she
held till the time of her death.
	She was a mother to the motherless and a
friend to the poor and needy. Many a trav-
eler has found shelter under her roof and
none was ever turned away hungry, as she
was always ready and willing to share her
mite with all she thought needed it.
	Funeral services were held at the St. John
meeting house Feb. 29, being conducted by
Bishop Monson. Music was furnished by
the Malad Tabernacle choir. The speakers 
were Bishop J. P. Harrison, Elders R. J.
Harding, of Malad, and Moses Davis, of
Salt Lake City.


LIFE’S GOAL.
To live, to work for right and greatest worth,
To paint the world in colors luminant,
To bring a reign of peace upon the earth,
To make each life’s expression jubilant;
Thus man for God will make His glory ring
In seeking good and truth in everything!
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	MAY, 1912


[Column 1]
	EARLY PIONEER EDUCATION.
	That the Latter-day Saints have always
favored education even under the most ad-
verse circumstances is self-apparent. Those
who have been connected with this Church
from the very beginning, know how earn-
estly the people have sought to make educa-
tion general in the settlements and wher-
ever they might sojourn even for a limited
time.
	Leaving Nauvoo, Illinois, suddenly in the
dead of winter, they took with them books,
though a miscellaneous collection, books of
value, and among them many school books.
In Winter Quarters school was taught six
months in a log school house, with rustic
seats of various kinds and a dirt floor. As
we recall the facts there were about thirty
pupils, among whom were some who came
to the valley in the first year. The company
that followed in the wake of the pioneers
and who built the fort on the place now
known as the Pioneer Square had schools
opened that first winter. The teachers whose
names are on record in the history of the
state taught in their own homes, rude as
they necessarily were. In the second year
of the settlement of the valley, 1848, Heber
C. Kimball built a small school house on
the north side of City Creek. In this little
building councils were also held and most
important business pertaining to the wel-
fare of the community was transacted. Here
Horace K. Whitney taught a fine school,
assisted semi-occasionally by the writer.
There are men and women now living who
were pupils in that school and are promi-
nent in both church and state. This school
was of high order and it was entirely free,
at least so far as the writer knows there
was no remuneration to the teachers.
	Afterwards schools were opened, in dif-
ferent localities, wherever there were suf-
ficient settlers to require it. Among the early
teachers we recall Jesse W. Fox, also Sarah
M. Brimhall, who taught in the Fourteenth
ward. Hannahrette Pratt, Keziah Pratt
and afterwards Eleanor Pratt were among
the very first. In 1852 the writer taught
school in a log school house in the Twelfth
ward, on what is now Fourth East street.
She had sixty-five pupils, men and women
who today stop sometimes in their busy
public life to recall the little pioneer school
where they took their first steps in educa-
lion.

[Column 2]
	One of the invaluable developments in
the way of social and literary advancement
was the formation of a literary society of
men and women at the home of Lorenzo
Snow, known as the Polysophical Society.
This society even antedated the Transcen-
dentalists of New England. The best known
men and women of the city were members.
One instrumental in organizing this soci-
ety, Brother William Eddington, is still liv-
ing. The poems, essays, etc., written for
this society were quite meritorious, and
many of them form a part of our Church
literature.
	The legislature of the Territory at its
first session made provision for district
schools as is recorded on the public docu-
ments. On Feb. 28, 1850, less than three
years after the arrival of the Pioneers, and
before many of the people who had taken
part in the exodus from Nauvoo had reached
the valley, the legislature issued a charter
for founding a state university. This uni-
versity, known then as the University of
Deseret, with a chancellor and a board of
regents, is the beginning of the University
of Utah which today ranks so excellent
among educational institutions. The pro-
vision made for its founding at such an
early date shows how the pioneers felt in
regard to higher education.
	Music has always been one of the “hob-
bies” of the “Mormon” people, and its cul-
tivation has been wonderfully encouraged.
It has always been a feature of the home life
among the people. The songs of any dis-
tinct people show the tendency of thought
and aspirations and mark the trend of feel-
ing; and music, both vocal and instrumen-
tal, has ever been a distinctive element in
the tone and policy of this people; in fact
it has seemed to be a necessity, as it were,
and the songs and hymns and labors of our
writers and composers have been most help-
ful and inspiring in the labors of the people
in the mountains and valleys uplifting the
soul under difficulties and diffusing joy and
peace and content. It has been often re-
marked that had it not been for our band
of musicians and our beautiful singers in
early times cheering the spirit of those
weary pilgrims in their exile and journey-
ings, they never would have had the cour-
age to toil on to the distant haven of rest
and peace which they expected to find in
the valleys of the mountains.
	Some of those who have progressed and
have striven for the highest and best to be
attained know how earnestly the people
have labored to uplift and encourage high-
er education in music, art, and literary de-
velopment. Neither has it been in vain—
the proofs are evident, and in the near fu-
ture the young men and women of this
mountain region will rank with the greatest
orators, poets, statesmen and scientists of
the world.
	In the early days there was a freshness
and simplicity in all ways and doings that
was a marked characteristic not at all to be
deplored, but a genuineness that could not
well be misunderstood. We came to this
region to build up a community that would
protect virtue and foster and encourage in-
dustry and become in every sense self-sup-
porting, in all that the word implies—to be
an independent and a worthy people. With
such an aim, guided by faith, have we
builded.


THE MAESER MEMORIAL.
	The principal event of the closing exer-
cises at the Brigham Young University,
Provo, this year was the dedication and
presentation to the Church of the Maeser
Memorial. The Alumni Association of the
University passed a resolution seven years
ago for such a memorial, and organized
committees to push the work. As a result
of this resolution, five years ago ground
was broken for the foundation and on the
30th of May, 1912, the beautiful building
was ready for dedication.
	The site of the building could not be
surpassed in the world for natural loveli-
ness. On the summit of a hill, with the
great towering peaks of the Wasatch so
close behind it as to seem almost as though
one might touch them with the outstretched
hand; with the broad, verdant valley slop-
ing towards the sapphire waters of Utah
lake in the foreground, and the picturesque
and garden-like city of Provo lying be-
tween; to the north and south the fruit-
ful fields and blossoming orchards of the
Utah valley, the beautiful marble edifice
stands majestic in its splendid setting. The
memorial itself is classic throughout in
style. It is constructed of the famous white
stone from the Sanpete quarries, and the
massive pillars on the portal are especially
imposing. The building is fully equipped
for occupancy, with furniture in perfect
keeping, and will be used for the home of
the Teachers’ College.
	While the Alumni Association are re- 
sponsible for the inception of this grand
memorial, the Church and many friends
and organizations have contributed means
and made the effort a possibility, and today
both the State and the Church may well be
proud in the possession of such a temple of
learning.
	The exercises of the Alumni Association
were highly interesting but the crowning
feature was the dedication of the building
by President Joseph F. Smith. His impres-
sive prayer thrilled all who were present
and rendered the occasion most sacred. He
besought that the spirit of purity, beauty
and nobility should exist in the building
and prevail there always; that the spirit
of the gospel and of true education should
characterize everything that might be done
there, and that love and unity should al-
ways exist between pupils and teachers.
	The erection of this building is a fitting
tribute to the memory of Karl G. Maeser,
founder of the Church school system-—
which, though such a problem in the begin-
ning—the combining of secular and re-
ligious training—he so beautifully and com-
pletely solved. Today the influence of the
Church schools is felt in every part of our
Church work, being especially noticeable
in the missionary field. The elders who
have the advantage of the Church school
training have not only a fund of digested
and available information to help them, but
also an abiding testimony of the gospel, and
are at once armed and ready for the battle
in the world with unbelief or misguided
ideas. Brother Maeser sought no honors or
reward for his work, but in a humble, quiet
way made the force of his character felt
wherever he went. He brought with him
from his native land, Germany, high ideals
as well as thorough and advanced educa-
tional methods, and he wrought a mighty


work as a teacher among the youth of
Zion—a work indeed more lasting than
the marble temple which is now dedicated
to his honor, strong and firm though its
foundations are, for he builded human
character which shall endure forever.
						A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SUFFRAGE NO FAILURE IN UTAH.
	It is quite astonishing that a journal of
wide reputation and up-to-date ideas like the
Ladies’ Home Journal should take such a
backward step as it has on the woman suf-
frage question, and especially surprising that
the editor should be so thoroughly misin-
formed on that subject. In a recent number
in an editorial entitled, “The signal failure
of woman suffrage,” the editor says: “While
granting there are some improved laws on
the statute books of Wyoming, Utah, Col-
orado and Idaho, the states where women
have voted for from fifteen to forty-two
years, still the largest and best number of
laws for the protection of life do not exist
in those states, but in those other states
where women do not vote.” This assertion
is absurd on the face of it, for men in all
the states have always had the power to
make the laws and the younger western
states, with the older ones for patterns, have
selected and framed the laws in accordance
with the best laws of older states and the
Constitution; but with woman suffrage in	
these four states mentioned, at each legis-
lature since the suffrage was granted new
and splendid laws have been placed on the
statute books. In Utah no man can dispose
of any property without the consent of his
wife and her written signature is necessary
for any transfer or mortgage of property.
We have the nine-hour law, the limit any
girl or woman is compelled to work, a law
which affects not only the women in the
factories, behind the counters and in offices,
but the nurses in the hospitals, and this law
is enforced, while Maryland is only now
rejoicing over a ten-hour law. Utah has
raised the age of consent to eighteen, while,
as every one knows in the southern states
it is as low as fourteen. Two criminals have
just this last month been sent to the state
prison, one for fifteen years and one for
sixty-one years, either sentence considering
the respective ages means life imprison-
ment, for rape, while to quote Miss Jane
Addams of Chicago: “In the state of Il-
linois the punishment for rape is the same
as that inflicted for the theft of fifteen dol-
lars’ worth of property, and a man may not
be extradited from one state to another for
so slight an offense.”
	In Utah all merchants are compelled to
place stools or chairs behind the counters for
the convenience of the women clerks. We
claim a curfew law, and have no superior
Juvenile court in the United States. Our
educational system ranks third in the union
of states. It is unlawful to perform a mar-
riage ceremony for any boy or girl under
the age of twenty-one without the consent
of the parent or guardian and such marriage
if performed can be declared void. Nor did
we forget, the comfort of the men, for a
woman legislator framed and put through a
law compelling all women to take off their
hats in public gatherings. In fact our stat-
ute books are full of improved laws for the

[Column 2]
safety of life, the comfort and protection of
women and children; and while we realize
there are other laws necessary, we feel con-
fident that with the strength of our votes
we can procure them, and we are not sleep-
ing either. We have made many victories
and expect to make more.
	The other suffrage states have made equal
advancement, and are alive to the necessity
of better laws, therefore, we feel the Jour-
nal criticism to be quite unjust. As uni-
versal suffrage is a foregone conclusion, it
seems almost needless to argue the question
now, for before long editors and others will
be so accustomed to this mark of progress
as to wonder why they ever opposed it.
							A. W. C.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN’S MAGAZINES.
	Perhaps nothing more distinctly calls for
confidence, fearlessness and grit than the
venture of placing a magazine or newspaper
in a field already flooded. A man would
scarcely hazard the thought unless behind
the venture there were a rich corporation, or
political or religious influence. But without
any such backing, with only a desire to give
to the world some new thoughts, higher
ideals and advanced education, there have
been a few women brave enough—and as
some of their friends have told them, foolish
enough—to make such a venture. Among
these there have been, of course, some finan-
cial failures; but from a literary standpoint
the women’s magazines have not only been
unique but praiseworthy and stand as a
mark of advanced thought for woman’s
elevation, socially and educationally.
	The literary field has never been denied
to woman, but the proper preparation has;
and considering the prejudice and disadvan-
tages she has had to contend against, one
marvels at the great advancement she has
made. With admiration we recall the names
of Margaret Fuller Ossilli, Fanny Fern, the
Bronte sisters, Lucy Stone, Kate Gannett
Woods, Emmeline B. Wells, Abigail Scott
Dunniway, Kate Field and Charlotte Per-
kins Gilman.
	Today, when the magazines and news-
papers are not complete without their
women writers, it is scarcely possible to
credit how brave these women had to be
to face the ridicule and opposition and some-
times persecution of a few years ago. When
the great Charles Dickens caricatured the
women writers, and classed them all as the
ridiculous Mrs. Jellaby, while other wits
dubbed them “Blue Stockings,” it was not
an easy matter to appear in public print, and
that is largely the reason that most women
writers used a nom de plume instead of their
own name. Ridicule and even abuse were
bravely borne, and these noble women toiled
fearlessly on, knowing that women were just
as gifted as men and just as able if only
the way could be opened. We laugh now,
we women suffragists, when people say they
don’t believe in “woman’s rights,” because
all along the way we see, following the ad-
vance guard, a great army of the best think-
ing, most studious men and women of the
world. Such results are due not alone to the
suffrage workers who have lectured, held
congresses, conventions and councils
throughout the land, but also to the women
who have burned the midnight oil—the
women who have carried the burden of a

[Column 2]
magazine or newspaper almost without as-
sistance, placing in the homes of the people,
the hands of the traveler, the salesman, the
laborer and the scholar, the written words to
break down the wall of prejudice, invade
the ranks of ignorance and throw into the
limelight the writing on the wall foretelling
the onward march of progress. 
	The dauntless Lucy Stone launched on the
Atlantic coast the clean and forceful paper,
The Woman’s Journal, in the early sixties;
while on the other side of the continent Abi-
gail Scott Dunniway started The New
Northwest in 1869. Here in the intermoun-
tain region a young Utah woman, Miss L.
Lula Greene, started the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT, in 1872. Some time in the eighties the
brilliant Kate Field published her Washing-
ton, which, though short-lived, was forceful,
witty and popular; and now in recent years,
notable among women’s magazines is the
Fore Runner, all of its printed material pre-
pared by that charming and brainy woman—
Charlotte Perkins Gilman. The Woman’s
Journal, published in Boston, is the official
organ of the Suffrage Association. For
many years it was published and edited by
Lucy Stone, later assisted by her husband,
Mr. Blackwell, and still later by her daugh-
ter, Alice Stone Blackwell, who at her moth-
er’s death succeeded her in the editorship.
The Woman’s Journal has been a power in-
deed in the cause of educational, political
and social advancement for women, and its
present editor certainly deserves praise for
the wonderful amount of information given
through its columns about the progress of the
suffrage cause and other kindred subjects.
The New Northwest, published in Portland,
probably came short of the necessary finan-
cial support for it ceased to be issued some
time ago; but during its publication it also
was potent for good and always advanced
the cause of higher education and privileges
for women. Poor Kate Field died in Ha-
waii, and her literary work was thus sud-
denly closed, but her paper, The Washing-
ton, was full of bright and witty things and a
valuable instrument for the suffrage cause.
The Fore Runner—well, it is Mrs. Gilman
—if you know her—keen, bright, sharp,
witty and interesting. How long one wom-
an’s brain can hold out producing fiction,
poetry, essays, criticism, reviews and all
the varieties of literature with which its
columns sparkle, is hard to tell; but now in
the course of its third year this magazine
bravely holds its own, is eagerly looked for
and pleasurably read.
	There are other women’s papers, of
course, but these are the ones whose chief
aim is the advancement of woman. These
are the ones whose battle has been long
fought and gloriously won. 
						A. W. C.


A PILGRIMAGE.
	A little child, wandering in woodland
ways, among the tangled grass and beside
the rippling brooklets, strangely wondered
at all she saw, and, more strangely still,
at what she felt within her own little heart;
the wild flowers in the shady dells, the bees
and singing birds, and, at night, when all
seemed hushed and still, the melancholy
croaking of the frogs—on and on and seem-
ing to echo afar, thoughts that were brood-
ing in her own untrained mind. All these
sounds, sometimes harmonious, and yet


[Column 1]
withal discordant, never unpleasant, seemed
a wild melody. And yet there was naught
of the savage in her nature. She roamed
the hills, she climbed the trees, she stood
aloft on rocky heights, and talked to the
birds, and trees, and fountains, and to the
brooklets flowing on and on over the peb-
bly sands, and to her ears all sounds were
music. 
	She believed in elves and fairies, and
fancied she would some day see them and
that one would yet come to spin golden
threads like “Clotilda’s god-mother.” Some-
times she felt sad, after watching and wait-
ing and no one came to make her day-
dreams come true. She fashioned wreaths
from the evergreen vines that trailed in
the woods under the trees, and wondered
again and again how crowns were made
from the laurel bushes that seemed so stiff
and grew so straight and ungainly. She
dreamed great dreams of imaginary poets
and wandering minstrels that played upon
harps and sang militant music, mild and
melodious and melancholy, like the whip-
poorwill she had often heard in the night
time. Sometimes she could be found sitting
on the moss-covered rocks under the over-
hanging, graceful hemlock boughs, imag-
inging herself the queen of the fairies. 
	This child was “impossible” so the
neighbors said, and these good Puritan
mothers wondered why her mother allowed
her to indulge in such wild fancies. 
	But even childish dreams have an awak-
ening and as time flew by, the child grew
older, if not wiser, and new thoughts and
desires to know of books and pastimes such
as other children enjoyed, and school
friends and companions who talked of re-
alities, not of fancies, began to occupy her
mind. She learned quickly and helped oth-
ers, which seemed to her unsophisticated
mind the one aim to be desired. Her studies
were almost a pastime and she seemed to
have known many things before she read
them in her books. 
	She was romantic in the extreme. Her
imagination carried her afar, and she trav-
ersed over lands in the distance, she climbed
the highest hills, she compassed land and
sea, as it were, and she told marvelous tales
of what she had seen and heard. She be-
lieved in herself. She felt she could over-
come all obstacles in her way. She as-
tounded all her teachers. In fact, those who
knew of her progress in the studies she had
undertaken, far in advance of those of her
age, predicted for her a brilliant future. 
The little maiden who had found there were
no real wood nymphs or fairies believed
she could attain celebrity and was encour-
aged in her ideas of reaching the highest
excellence in such studies as little girls
of her age never dreamed of undertaking. 
Much of the reading and many of the stud-
ies of the child were of a classical nature. 
Her own taste in literature was of that kind
and yet she loved the romantic, but her
heroes and heroines were of the highest
class. She loved the poems that were lofty
in tone and sentiment and her thoughts
were of those who had accomplished great
things—Rome and the Romans; Greece
the land of philosophers and poets; Scot-
land and its great romances, Waverley and
others. 
	The child grew and she found her way
into the hearts and homes of her kindred,
and her winsome ways were the admira-

[Column 2]
tion of those who were in any way associ-
ated with her. Yet she was dreamy and in
some way irresponsive to endearment. She
seemed to shrink from contact with all ex-
cept a very few.
*		*		*		*		*
	A change came to the young maiden that
altered the whole course of events—a won-
drous change. Whereas she had religious
tendencies, implanted by education and in-
heritance, yet she had not known deep con-
victions, nor was it likely in one so young. 
Yet suddenly it came about, and her whole
soul was wrought upon by the strange news
that a prophet had proclaimed a new reve-
lation from heaven. He had a small fol-
lowing—only a few. It was wonderful. 
	The truth entered into her very heart
and soul; all her spiritual faculties were
aroused: she wanted to see the prophet. 
	Her wish was gratified. She saw and
heard him. What a great change was
wrought! So true and zealous was this
unsophisticated child that not all the temp-
tations the world could offer would have
made any impression upon her, to make her
doubt the knowledge that she had indeed
seen and heard from a prophet of God. 
Trials and persecutions, sorrow and priva-
tion, were as naught compared with the tes-
timony given her when she saw and heard
him. 
	Then followed the great tragedy—the
Prophet and Patriarch were slain. Many
failed in their faith—not so the maiden who
had been bereft of all that she loved best. 
She mourned the loss she suffered, as it were
apart from others, yet her sorrow was as
genuine as those who made more parade of
grief. Her heart was deeply touched and
the sorrow of that terrible time could never
be effaced from her memory.
*		*		*		*		*
	Leaving the city of the Saints, crossing
the Mississippi on the ice in the dead of
winter, camping out, sleeping in tents, and
all the other exigencies and inconveniences
of such an unpremeditated journey, to a
young delicate girl was not only a new and
novel experience, but attended by many al-
most insurmountable difficulties, and in this
case proved more than her nature could
endure. Brain fever set in, and life was de-
spaired of, but notwithstanding, the girl
rallied and lived to reach Winter Quarters,
where, during that first winter of 1846 and
1847, the pilgrim Saints suffered so much
from fatigue and hradship. Many strong
men and women suffered and death car-
ried away those of all ages, but particularly
women and little children.
	Spring came. The pioneers left for the
unknown way to the Great Basin, and the
children needed a teacher. Gladly the young
girl opened a school for those in the vi-
cinity. It was in a log house without a
floor, romantic enough to suit even her pe-
culiar temperament. Six months she taught
the girls and boys of all ages, almost with-
out books. Much of their teaching was
really of a religious nature, and it was the
simple faith of the young woman that
helped her over the rough places of life.
Her mother had died and been buried by
the wayside in an unknown grave, and she
was left in charge of three motherless chil-
dren, but she still had her romantic fancies
and dreams. Her songs and poems were
her only pastime. 
	Later in the spring of 1848 the body of

[Column 3]
the Church left Winter Quarters on the
Missouri river for the valley, and in the
beautiful month of May, with the three chil-
dren, she journeyed toward the west once
more, this time to find a permanent home. 
	The variety of scenery, the incidents of
the way, especially in such large traveling
companies, more than compensated for all
the inconveniences and difficulties to be en-
countered; the trials and privations were
over-balanced by the prophetic thoughts of
the mountain home where freedom and lib-
erty for the chosen people would be found
and maintained. 
	Reaching the vale in the mountains
after coming through Emigration can-
yon, the teams were corralled on City
Creek and camp made opposite the
Temple site, and here, on this very
ground she passed many shifting, chang-
ing scenes in her life’s eventful his-
tory. All these changes, whether gay or
sad, were to her so many books of knowl-
edge, sometimes left to moulder and rust
without opening the pages to look therein,
and again, just peeping in for material to
interest the many who question of the
numerous incidents that had unfolded in
the settlement of the valley, and withal after
many years what has been the result of life’s
adventures into unexplored volumes of
thought and experiences! How can the
story be told of any woman’s long life, es-
pecially of one who had such lofty aims and
aspirations to accomplish some great pur-
pose to help others, especially to benefit
womankind and children!
	The whole trend of the busy, active life
of this dreamful child and woman proves
that the longing fancies of her girlhood
were in a sense prophetic of her later
life. In her mature womanhood, when
the vista of opportunities opened up, un-
looked-for and unsought, dreams and ro-
mances in a sense resolved themselves into
realities, yet all has been wrought out so
absolutely different than could have been
anticipated even by the most sanguine ob-
server, and consequently establishes the fact
at least in the mind of the “once impossi-
ble,” that there are lingering in the brain
some dim recollections of consciousness or
sub-consciousness, pre-existent and through
all the grievous trials and vicissitudes of
life a hope in the ultimate triumph of light
over darkness, the shining light that is like
an anchor.				W. W. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIGIOUS THOUGHT IN AMERICA.
	[The following interesting paper was prepared
by Mrs. Myra Young Rossiter and presented be-
fore the Utah Society of the Daughters of the
Revolution at a recent meeting. Containing a vast
amount of information upon an important subject
in condensed form, it will be found of interest,
we are sure, to every reader.—EDITOR.]

		THE PRESENT DAY.
	Religion is as old as human history or
human language; and there is good reason
for saying that it is universal, though there
are and have been individual atheists and
communities with little sense of religion.
The temperament of certain races renders
them more highly susceptible of profound
religious impulses, just as some individuals
have a deeper fund of religious feeling, of
piety and reverence, than their neighbors.
Most of the great religions profess to have
been directly revealed to man by inspiration


[Column 1]
from God, and are thus miraculously com-
municated to man, who has only to hear, un-
derstand and obey. On the other hand
many inquirers seek the origin of religion
within man himself, and it is claimed that
it is not necessary that those who do so
should deny the truth of all religions, or
reject belief in an almighty and infinite God.
	The religious matters of the United States
have certainly adopted the elective system.
According to figures recently issued by the
census bureau, which has completed a re-
ligious census, there are a hundred and
eighty-six religious denominations in the
United States.
	If, however, a man cannot find a satis-
factory denomination, he can make his
choice among 1,079 independent churches.
The census bureau reports that the churches
are growing faster than the population. The
last religious census before this was made
in 1890. Between that date and the close
of 1906, which is the last year included in
the latest report, the increase of the popula-
tion of continental United States was 33.8
per cent. During that same period, in the
number of communicant church members
there was an increase of 60.4 per cent; in
the value of church edifices an increase of
35.3 per cent, and in the value of church
property an increase of 85.1 per cent. In
every particular, except in the number of
church organizations, the rate of increase
in religious bodies has exceeded the rate of
increase in the population at large. Of the
total population in 1890 the reported church
membership represented 39.1 per cent. The
greater part of this increase has been by the
Roman Catholic church. In sixteen years
its population nearly doubled. Its percen-
tage of increase was 93.5 per cent. Not-
withstanding the Protestant bodies increas-
ed at a much lower rate, they have grown
more rapidly than the population. Their per-
centage of increase has been 44.8 per cent.
To put it in another way, of the 6.4 per
cent gain in church membership in propor-
tion to the population, 4.4 per cent is Roman
Catholic, 1.8 per cent is Protestant. Among
the Protestant denominations the Disciples
(including the Church of Christ) made a
gain of 78.2 per cent. The Lutheran bodies
follow closely with a gain of 71.6 per cent,
and the Protestant Episcopal church comes
closely after, with a gain of 66.7 per cent.
The Adventists and Baptists are more than 
half again as numerous as they were in
1890. 
	Remarkable percentages of increase are
also set down to the Eastern Orthodox
churches, Independent churches and Chris-
tian Scientists. One of the most striking
figures in the whole report is that which re-
cords the increase in the number of Jewish
organizations, largely due to immigration.
In the membership of the Roman Catholic
church are counted all baptized persons, in-
cluding infants, and also adults who never
attend church. On the other hand, in Prot-
estant denominations, only those are in-
cluded who are voluntarily enrolled. For
this reason the census bureau has made an
allowance of 15 per cent in the Roman
Catholic figures for purposes of comparison.
Out of the forty-nine states and territories,
in one the Mormons are in the majority, in
sixteen the Roman Catholics, and in twenty-
nine the Protestants. Of the Protestant
bodies the Methodists are the most numer-
ous.
	The Methodists and Baptists together

[Column 2]
have more than half of the religious organi-
zations in the country. There has been
an increase in the number of denominations,
but many of these are newly created and in-
significant. The process by which certain
denominations have united and others have
joined in co-operative movements, is of far
greater significance than merely nominal in-
crease in the number of religious bodies.
There is much for the church to do in this
country which it has ignored and neglected.
There are many signs that other organiza-
tions are wresting from the church some of
its leadership; nevertheless, if these figures
mean anything, they indicate that the
church is, materially at least, in a healthy
state of growth.
	The most far-sighted among us cannot
predict the outcome of the remarkable
change which the vast stream of immigra-
tion, so long continued, is fast effecting in
the Republic. History records no such pop-
ulation movement in previous ages, nor is
there any precedent for the assimilation of
races, now apparently in progress. Assim-
ilation is, however, in reality the mightiest
problem before the American people today,
and light upon it, even the feeblest rays,
would be most welcome. In the changes of
attitude of the American people towards re-
ligious beliefs which have occurred since the
previous inquiry, is to be found one of the
first signs of the new composite of race,
now in process of creation in the United
States. From Dr. Carroll’s estimate of the
present strength of the various denomina-
tional families of the country and their
growth, it is very evident that Christianity,
while it may be losing its grip on part of the
constituency, is still in possession of incal-
culable power and influence, as some of the
following denominations will prove.
	Adventists, 6 bodies; Baptists, 14 bodies;
Brethren (River), 3 bodies; Brethren (Ply-
mouth), 4 bodies; Buddhists (Chinese);
Buddhists and Shintoists (Japanese); Cath-
olics, 9 bodies; Catholic Apostolic; Chris-
tadelphians; Christian Connection; Chris-
tian Catholic (Dowie); Christian Scientists;
Christian Union; Church of God, (Wine-
brennarian); Church of the New Jerusa-
lem; Communistic Societies, 6 bodies; Con-
gregationalists; Disciples of Christ; Dunk-
ards, (4 bodies); Evangelical (2 bodies); 
Friends (Quakers), 2 bodies; Friends of the
Temple (German); Evangelical Protestant
(German); Evangelical Synod (Jews) 2
bodies; The Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints; Lutherans (23 bodies);
Swedish Evangelical; Mission Covenant;
Mennonites (12 bodies); Methodists (7
bodies); Moravians; Presbyterians (2
bodies); Reformed (3 bodies); Salvation 
Army; Schwenkfildians; Social Brethren;
Society for Ethical Culture; Spiritualists;
Theosophical Society; United Brethren (2
bodies); Unitarians; Universalists; Inde-
pendent Congregations.
	These are some of the sects that prevail
in America today, and to attempt to explain
the religious tenets of each faith would be
a herculean task for anyone to attempt, and 
I will conclude by stating that of all the
religious denominations now in existence
among men, none have attracted such atten-
tion from the others as the organization
known as “The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints,” the members of which
are popularly, though erroneously, called
“Mormons” because of their belief in the
divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon,

[Column 3]
a record of the ancient inhabitants of Amer-
ica. In every nation where the fame of
this Church has spread, and where its elders
have appeared to teach their faith, one fea-
ture which stands pre-eminent is the bitter-
ness with which they are opposed, without
even the opportunity of being heard, prin-
cipally by professed believers in Christian-
ity. With this prominent fact before us it
is beyond dispute that to this organization,
above all others in this generation, must be
applied the saying, “For as concerning this
sect, we know that everywhere it is spoken
against.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
			SPOKANE, MAY 24, 1912.
Pres. E. B. Wells,
	DEAR SISTER: At last I can report our
Relief Society organized here in the Spok-
ane Branch.
	The meetings are all well attended. Sis-
ters are interested and doing a grand work.
	January 4, 1912 when first organized,
Sister Eliza Preston was president. Four
meetings were held and she moved to Idaho.
	There was so much sickness in the branch
things progressed slowly.
	March 31, 1912, Sister Kate Murray was
sustained as president in Sister Preston’s
place.
	We are fortunate in having a woman with
her experience in our midst to lead in this
work. She is the only one in our organiza-
tion that has ever attended Relief Society
meeting. Her home was in Brigham City.
While there, she took an active part in Re-
lief Society, so is of great value to us here.
	I am pleased to say that since she has
been president, a great work has been ac-
complished.
	Two weeks ago the sisters all went to the
Orphans’ Home and served for the home-
less children.
	At our regular sewing meetings we have
made one quilt and have blocks for another
almost ready to put together.
	A better band of workers would be hard
to find than those here. They are all ready
and willing to do whatever they can to help
the work along.
	We have fifteen names on our roll. Please
find a check inclosed for the dime fund.
	Names of officers of the organization as it
stands today and sustained March 3, 1912:
	Sister Kate Murray, President.
	Sister Pauline Van Cleave, First Coun-
selor.
	Sister Ethel Clark, Second Counselor.
	Sister Ada Headlee, Secretary.
	Sister Thyra Nelson, Treasurer.
	Sister Victoria Egbert, Class Leader.
	Sister Anna Wilson, Class Leader.
	We have fifteen enrolled and an average
attendance of twelve at our meetings.
	Sister Wells, we are anxious to keep in
touch with the General Board, so if you have
any suggestions, books, or papers that would
help out in this work, please send them to us.
We are anxious to be a credit and feel we
need all the support you can give us until
we get a little older in the work.
	Received a letter from mother and she
said you had been over to the house, and
spent the afternoon. I should like to have
been there myself. I am enjoying my work.
Have been away from home nineteen
months. Will be released to come home in
October. Eleven months I labored in Port-
land, and the rest of the time here.


They have a fine Relief Society in Port-
land. It was organized before I came but
we have organized the one here in Spokane
also the Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. A.
	They are also doing a most excellent
work.
	Hoping to hear from you sometime in the
near future, I am yours lovingly,
				CATHARINE L. WOODBURY,
			1524 Pacific Ave. West,
						Spokane, Wash.

			MANCOS, COLO, May 27, 1912.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
	Salt Lake City.
	I write to inform you of the change made
in this the San Juan Stake.
	May 21, 1912, there were two stakes or-
ganized.
	The west side is called the Platt Stake
in honor of the late Platt D. Lyman, and
Sister Mary N. Jones is president of the
Relief Society.
	The east side of the stake is called the
Young Stake in honor of Brigham Young,
Jr., and Sister M. M. Halls, the daughter of
F. A. Hammond, is appointed president of 
the Relief Society of the Young Stake. I
have been president of the Mutual Improve-
ment Association for twenty-six years,
though I have also labored in the Relief
Society.
	I would like to receive any instructions
you have to write, as I will not be able to
see you until October conference.
	What is your idea of teachers visiting and 
holding a little meeting with the mother and 
girls, that is to have order about it, and talk 
Relief Society work? 
	My idea is to have the sisters offer a 
prayer before going that the Lord may help
them. If there are any young girls at the
home, call them to sit down with the mother
and listen to the counsel of the teachers.
And then have the mother and girls ex-
press themselves in regard to Relief Society
work. I think that would instill in the
hearts of the young girls the importance of
the work.
	For my part I think there is no grander
association in the Church than the Relief
Society.
	There is a great and noble work to do and
we want the young mothers to learn this 
great truth. 
	I desire to work faithfully in this office
and work up the importance of the Relief
Society. I pray God to help me to do so.
	May the Lord bless you, my dear sister,
and strengthen you for every labor you have 
to do.
		I remain your co-laborer,
						M. M. HALLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	In March the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion held their election of officers and
started on another year of laudable en-
deavor. At the first meeting after this the
new regent, Miss Catherine A. Wells, made
the following interesting address to the
members:
	The honor you have given me I appre-
ciate. I wish to thank those who elected me
and will accept the position, hoping it will
educate me in the things that will make me
strong, that I may be a better patriot than
I have been in the past. I will endeavor
to magnify the position to its uttermost. I


am especially pleased with the officers with
whom you have surrounded me. With dear
Aunt Em’s counsel, Mrs. Willey’s and Ab-
bie’s keen intellect and enthusiasm, Mrs.
Smith’s wisdom and experience and Mrs.
Farnsworth’s ability, I feel strong already.
	I think this Society a very important one
and believe it will some day be a power
for good in our nation. What we need now
is to enthuse the old members and make
our meetings so interesting and popular
that new members will want to join. I wish
every Daughter that is eligible would be-
come a member, as it is a privilege to be a
member of this Society; not that we are any
better than our foreign sisters, but because
we can have the right to honor our fore-
fathers and mothers for the great work
they have accomplished in making us a
free nation; and it seems to me it is our
duty to make patriots of our young people.
In thinking over the regents from Aunt Em
to Mrs. Spencer I think every one that has
held this position has been the right one
in the right place and at the right time when
she could do the most good, and what a 
coterie of intelligent, bright women! I trust
we will continue to progress and be as suc-
cessful in our administration.
	I am so proud of the Matilda Evans
Chapter and I wish we had one in every
town and city in Utah. I am heartily in
favor of the Junior Auxiliary and hope the
mothers and grandmothers will take an in-
terest and have their children join. I think
it would encourage Mrs. Horne if the
members would visit the Junior Auxiliary.
We have in our Society that courtesy which
is so necessary for the good feeling of its
members. I hope we will continue the culti-
vation of it so when we mingle with our as-
sociates and strangers we may ever have
in mind and remember the great example
we have before us of Lafayette’s courtesy
to Mrs. Morris, when he rode through the
streets of Philadelphia.
	There are three things in life that strong-
ly appeal to me: my religion, my home
and my country. I have tried to do my
duty by all. I believe if each and every one
could receive a testimony of our religion
and know the truth for ourselves, and use
that sweet influence in our homes, we could
give to our state better citizens, and to our
country better patriots. I trust that our
Society may progress and increase so it
may be said of the Utah State Society of
the Daughters of the Revolution in the
future that we are the banner society of
the Union.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. 
	Relief Society Conference of the Hyrum
Stake was held on Tuesday, May 21st, in
Hyrum Third Ward meeting house. On the
stand were Alice M. Horne and Jennie A. 
Hyde of the general board, Presidents W. C. 
Parkinson and A. M. Israelsen of the stake
presidency, members of the high council,
and all members of the stake Relief Society
board. President Louisa Allen presided. 
	At the morning meeting Counselor 
George Davis offered the opening prayer. 
	President Louisa Allen gave a good re-
port of the Relief Society of the Stake. We
have ten organizations all in good working
order; we are looking after the needs of
the poor and trying to do a good work. 
	Presidents Marie Wilson of Hyrum First


Ward, and Nettie Price of Paradise each re-
ported the Relief Society in their respective
wards as in good condition.
	Nancy Wahlen of Hyrum Third Ward
sang, “I know my Heavenly Father knows.”
	Alice M. Horne of the general board felt
pleased to be here. Gave many words of
encouragement to the sisters. Spoke of our
educational system. The necessity of care-
ful thought and study. What a responsi-
bility we have in choosing the best methods
and that which is for our best good. It is
well to hold fast to the revealed word of
God. 
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	After the opening exercises a song was
sung by Mrs. Maughan of Wellsville, and a 
paper read on “Success in Life,” by Sister
Vilate Davis.
	Song, Miss Eva Petersen.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde of the general
board addressed the sisters on Relief Society
progress, and complimented us on having
so many young sisters in our organization;
they with all their cares and responsibilities
need the association of the older sisters.
	Song, Sister Yeates and Jessop of Mill-
ville.
	Sister Horne gave an interesting dis-
course on Art. Dwelt on the beauties of na-
ture and natural scenery.
	Sister Nellie Parkinson called the atten-
tion of the ward presidents to the call that
has been made for assistance to the people of
the Mississippi flood district.
	Choir sang, “If There’s Sunshine in Your
Soul.”
	Benediction by Counselor Mary E. Bax-
ter.
			REBECCA C. ALLEN, Sec.


GO PLANT A TREE. 
Oh! what a joy it is to plant a tree!
	And from the sallow earth to watch it rise,
	Lifting its emerald branches to the skies
In silent adoration; and to see 
	Its strength and glory waxing with each
		spring,
	Yes, ’tis a goodly and a gladsome thing 
To plant a tree.

Nature has many marvels; but a tree
	Seems more than marvelous; it is Divine.
	So generous, so tender, so benign, 
Not garrulous, like the rivers, and yet free
	In pleasant converse with the winds and
		birds, 
	Oh privilege beyond explaining words,
To plant a tree.

Rocks are majestic but, unlike a tree,
	They stand aloof and silent. In the roar
	Of ocean billows breaking on the shore
There sounds the voice of turmoil. But a tree
	Speaks ever of companionship and rest.
	Yea of all righteous acts, this, this is the
		best—
To plant a tree.

There is an oak—oh, how I love that tree!—
	Which has been thriving for a hundred years.
	Each day I send my blessing through the
		spheres
For one who gave this triple boon to me
	Of growing beauty, singing birds and shade.
	Wouldst thou win laurels which shall never
		fade?
Go plant a tree!
				—ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.
	(In Ladies’ Home Journal for June.)


The Equal Franchise League of New
York City, founded by Mrs. Clarence Mack-
ay, opened its new suffrage library with a 
public reception on Jan. 25. Mrs. Robert
Goelet, chairman of the entertainment com-
mittee, arranged for a play to be presented
on that occasion, with young ladies of prom-
inent families taking part.

