Vol. 40.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1911						No. 4.


CONTENTS.
Transplanted—a Thanksgiving Story....
	.......................Annie Wells Cannon	25
Missionary Experiences..Lydia D. Alder	27
Notes About Women...............................	29
Self-Control............................................	30
Freakish Dress Foe to Suffrage..............	30
Household Hints.....................................	32
Relief Society Reports:
	Carbon Stake..................................	30
	Yellowstone Stake..........................	30
	St. Joseph Stake..............................	31
	Portland Branch, Oregon................	31
	Uintah Stake...................................	31
	Big Horn Stake...............................	32
Editorial:
	John Henry Smith, A Tribute..........	28
	John Smith, Patriarch.....................	28
	Utah Women at Chicago.................	29
	Editorial Notes................................	29
Obituary Notes:
	Mary Ann Whittle...........................	32
	Christiana S. Rasmussen................	32
	Mary Pratt Young...........................	32
	Margaret H. Clark...........................	32
Poetry:
	November..........................Selected	25
	Uplift........................Ellis R. Shipp	25


NOVEMBER.
I find sweet peace in depth of Autumn woods,
	Where grow the ragged ferns and roughened
		moss;
The naked silent trees have taught me this,—
	The loss of beauty is not always loss.
							—Selected.


UPLIFT.
(Dedicated to Mrs. Marguerite Marian Blake.)
Do we in life e’er pause and think what joys,
	what blessings we may gain,
If we from duty never shrink to what great
	heights we may attain?
If we the paths of right pursue, with earnest
	toil and faith sublime.
There is no task too hard to do, no peak too
	steep to climb!

We have the power to overcome ourselves—
	to live in sweetest peace—
In love, with all at home, where truest joys
	should never cease.
No matter if our mortal powers should fail, our
	heartstrings bleed and ache,
We still must hope through trying hours, have
	faith that God will ne’er forsake.

We have the power to scatter flowers of love
	and kindness on the way,
Though adverse winds may bring us showers
	of pain and sorrow every day,
We still may smile and look above, find re-
	compense for mortal woe,
Though chastened still we feel the love of Him
	whose mercies we e’er know.

’Tis possible to radiate a beam of hope to way-
	ward men,
Console the heart most desolate—make souls
	look up, rejoice again,
Rejoice in faith, that One above e’er maketh all
	things right and plain,
In blessing others with our love our waning
	hope revives again.

However poor, or sick, or weak, a mortal man
	or woman is,
They still a helpful word may speak, bring
	peace and sacred bliss;
However frail, or small, or young, the babe
	within your arms may be,
It still may speak with potent tongue uplift
	humanity.

Again beyond, above all power of life’s most
	fond, supreme desire,
There blooms a fair exquisite flower, there,
	burns a bright immortal fire.
The blessed thought that we still live, when all
	this mortal strife is o’er,
Tis possible e’en life to give, and know that
	God will all restore.—Ellis R. Shipp.


[Column 1]
TRANSPLANTED—A THANKSGIVING
				STORY.
	The old-fashioned farmhouse with its
broad halls and long staircases, its deep
casement windows and great fireplaces, had
been a scene of merriment and rejoicing all
day. The grown sons and daughters with
their families had come home to partake of
the Thanksgiving cheer and the youngsters
at home had sported and romped with their
young nephews and nieces, and the youths
and maidens had entertained their guests
with games and music, for this was an old-
fashioned family of many children, as well
as an old-fashioned home, and all had gath-
ered for a real old-fashioned Thanksgiving
time. On such a day the old are young and
the young are old, and the beaming counte-
nance but reflects the loving heart. Father
and mother had welcomed them all, had giv-
en bounteously of harvest gathering. There
had been the hearty dinner with the great
russet brown turkeys, sauces, vegetables, and
all the usual accompaniments including the
steaming plum pudding surrounded with
blue flames and the golden pumpkin pies that
“no one could make like mother,” and after
that the passing of rosy apples and pans
of snowy popcorn, until, surfeited with good
things and happy hours, the little ones be-
gan to weary. Goodnights were said and
the young families betook themselves to
their own firesides.
	The children at home drew their chairs
close around the fireside, reserving a central
place for father and mother, and settled
down for a quiet hour before the final hymn
and prayer were said. “Now, mother, for a
story—some good old-fashioned story for
us to sleep on,” was the cry, and mother,
finding rest and comfort herself in these
reminiscent hours, narrated the story of

		TANTE DORETTE.
	We had been traveling for several days
in the interest of our society work—Aunt
Janie and I, and one morning we drove to a
farm house out on the southern desert sev-
eral miles from the railroad terminal. We
were both quite tired and very hungry, and
from the appearance of the place neither
one of us expected much entertainment, for
the house was a small frame and the sur-
roundings boasted of no particular comfort.
The interior, however, was a surprise, and
belied the rude and desolate appearance
outside. Around the walls, covered with
painted burlap, were shelves filled with
choice books; some beautiful prints, copies
of the masters, and one rare piece of tapestry
were suspended above the shelves, while on
a small table by the window were a few
dainty pieces of china and glass. But the
greatest surprise of all was the quaint little
woman who welcomed us within. Neither
of us could tell you if she was old or young,
plain or beautiful, but one thing we were
both agreed upon: she was perfectly charm-
ing. Hair wavy and slightly gray, eyes
bright and black as night, medium height,
slender and graceful, she extended to greet
us a long, slender hand, brown with ex-

[Column 2]
posure, but not hard as her pioneer life
would lead you to think, and with the grace
and decorum of a duchess bade us enter
her humble home. After we had taken off
our wraps, shaken the dust of the desert
from our clothing and freshened our toil-
ettes somewhat, we drew our chairs up to
the heater at the end of the room and en-
tered into a speculation about the early life
and history of our hostess while she was
absent in another room, preparing a lunch
for us.
	“Aunt Janie, I know she’s French,” I
said impulsively, “and has a history worth
the telling, let’s get it out of her.” “I think
she is Swiss, probably a weaver of silk, did
you notice the tapestry on the wall?” re-
plied Aunt Janie. “Some of our early Swiss
converts were quite well off, but how they
were ever landed in this desert is a mystery
to me. Anyway, she’s a charming old lady,
and I mean to make the most of the hour
we stay here by finding out about these
books and this china and glass. Why, those
vases look Venetian, do come nearer and
look at them. See how iridescent and thin
they are.”
	The subject of our conversation just then
entered the room to announce that our din-
ner was ready. I felt very much embar-
rassed that she should find me examining
her treasures, but with an apology explained
that I had been attracted towards the table
by the delicate coloring in the glass. She
seemed not annoyed but pleased, and said
few people who came that way seemed to
appreciate such things, yet they were most
precious to her, for she had brought them
from her “own dear Italy.” We both laughed
to ourselves at our stupid guessing; for here
she was neither French nor Swiss, but Ital-
ian.
	It seemed almost unreal, this dainty, deli-
cious lunch, served by this quiet, beautiful
lady in such an out-of-the-way, desolate
place. We found her more than willing to 
tell her story, in fact she declared it was a
comfort and pleasure to meet sympathetic
and interested listeners, for the pioneer life
at best is lonely and hard where the occa-
sional visitor is generally a cowboy looking
for lost cattle or a drummer with his case of
samples on his way to the next town—the
conversation of either one of little interest to
a cultivated woman.
	“Yes,” she began with a little sigh, “it is
very strange, our coming here; but it shows
how the gospel reaches out and finds the
true seed. We were the only ones in our
village and for miles around who would even
listen to the elders and I think the reason
must have been because we were of differ-
ent origin. My father’s people, you know,
were French Huguenots who fled from
France at the time of the Thirty Years’ war,
fled in the night time,”——just then I 
nudged Aunt Janie knowingly, for the guess
I had made in the beginning—whispering
blood tells, you know, even to the third and
fourth generation——“crossed the border
into Switzerland and, there in an Alpine vil-
lage not far from the city of Berne, high in 
the Oberland, found a refuge and lived in


[Column 1]
the enjoyment of their freedom. It was
there my grandfather was born and lived.
He married a Swiss peasant maiden who
boasted of wonderful ingenuity in fine
needlework and lacemaking.”
	It was now Aunt Janie’s turn to smile,
for here the Swiss guess was proven cor-
rect, and we both laughed at our different
surmises so oddly fulfilled.
	“My father,” she continued, “as he grew
to manhood was not satisfied with the Swiss
life, and was seized with the ‘wanderlust’ as
the Germans say; and left home while still
a youth to seek his fortune in another land.
He crossed the Alps into Italy and found
work among the Piedmontese with a
wealthy vintner. The soft winds and balmy
air of northern Italy somewhat toned his
rugged Alpine disposition, and he soon
adapted himself to the work in the vine-
yards and became a great favorite in the
family of his employer, especially with the
black-eyed signorita whom he married when
she was only sixteen years old. Thus es-
tablished as heirs of the family, the larger
part of the vineyard was given my father
and mother; and in their pretty home, built
on the slope of the hill, with terrace after
terrace covered with most beautiful grape
vines spread out in front, and long paths
shaded with olive trees and great wisteria
vines hanging over the windows and doors—
there I was born and raised.”
	For a moment she seemed lost in reverie
as this picture presented itself and in the
silence we both thought of the vast differ-
ence to this poor woman from the shaded,
vine-clad hills of northern Italy to the bleak-
ness of this broad, level desert home, with
its sagebrush and mesquite.
	Presently she resumed: “When I was
five years old I had a very strange dream
and very real, so real, in fact, that I awoke
with a scream and ran down the stairs where
my father was just starting the morning
fire. It seemed as though my room was
flooded with a great light and standing at
the foot of my bed were two strange men,
dressed not as we dressed in Italy but in a
fashion peculiar to me, and in their hands
each one held a book with a gold cover. One
of them, a tall, dark, slender man, spoke
to me in these words: ‘To this house we
have brought the book of life—to your fath-
er and his household and his ancestors the
way is open—come!’ Now that I am older,
I think those were the very words; of course
as a child I could not repeat them so; but
one thing, I know they said ‘Come;’ and I
was so startled, and believed they had come
to carry me away, that I clung to my father
and would not let him leave me all that day.
In fact for a long time I never went out to
play with my little friends, and if a stran-
ger came to the farm I used to go away in
secret and pray for protection and conceal
myself in my mother’s room. But as the
years passed this fear left me, though the
remembrance of the dream never became
even dim in my mind.
	“On my sixteenth birthday a stranger ap-
plied for work among the vines and during
the day he told my father that on the way to
our village he had had a singular encounter
with two men from a new country. One
spoke to him a strange language, then in
broken French; but he understood so little
that the other, who spoke the Sicilian dia-
lect, undertook to explain that they had a
new religion, that the Christ had again ap-
peared, and all the people were to be taught

[Column 2]
the new gospel. My father was very much
impressed with what the laborer, Pietro, told
him, and began to inquire as to which road
the men had taken, and further as to what
they had said; but the only information he
could get was that they had gone over the
hill beyond us towards the mountains;
Pietro had thought their actions unusual
because they had asked him to pray with
them, and when he refused, the taller man
—he thought him English—spoke with great
feeling and raised his hand in which he held
a book, above him; but though he could
not understand the words, the incident made
him feel very uneasy, and he could not
throw off the peculiar feeling, which was
why he had told about it now.
	“When my father came in to dinner he
related this to my mother and me, and to all
three of us at once the thought of the dream
came back. ‘It is the child’s dream,’ ex-
claimed my mother; and we all knew that
something of a different nature had entered
our lives.
	“That afternoon my father did not return
to the vineyard but sat for hours musing
before the door. Toward evening, as
though suddenly resolved, he came to my
mother and said: ‘I must find them;’ and
turning to me he said, ‘Little Dorette, be
not afraid; I will bring them back and we
shall see your beautiful book.’
	“For two days my father walked in their
wake, never overtaking them but learning
that two such men had passed the way be-
fore him and hearing of the words they
had left behind. Towards evening of the
third day he reached a little chapel high on
the mountain side, approached by a single
path through the forest of trees. Entering
the door he found six or eight people assem-
bled listening to the strange words of a tall,
straight man; and though the language was
foreign, yet the spirit of what he said
seemed to hold them almost breathless.
When this one had finished another man
interpreted his words in the Sicilian dialect
and then himself said: ‘I know this is the
truth.’
	“My father had seated himself at the
back, and after the men had finished speak-
ing and the people began to go away, he
went up to them and said: ‘I want you to
come back with me to my home.’ He re-
turned with them that night to a village and
paid for their entertainment, and next day
brought them to our home. On the way the
tall man told him of Joseph Smith and his
mission, and bore testimony of the Truth, of
the gospel being restored. My father does
not know to this day how it was that he
understood it all, for he knew not a word
of English nor did his companion know any
Italian, or even German, my father’s na-
tive tongue; yet they conversed in perfect
understanding of each other.
	“My mother and myself saw them ap-
proaching the house, and the earnest man-
ner of them all and the lightness of their step
caused us to feel that something of a pleas-
ant nature awaited us; and we were most
happy, for father’s long absence had caused
us not a little uneasiness. As soon as the
evening meal was over, my father described
to us his journey and how he felt all the
time impelled to keep on until he found
them, never once thinking of turning back,
and would have so continued going on for
weeks had it been necessary, for he knew
they had for him something greater than
earthly treasures.

[Column 3]
	“The result of it was that my father,
my mother, and myself were baptized into
the Church, but my dear mother never lived
to come to America. When we were just
about ready to leave she was taken very ill
and our journey was delayed a year, hoping
that she would recover; but she had con-
tracted consumption, which finally overcame
her, and we buried her on the hillside near
our cottage. The neighbors had thought my
father crazy to shelter and befriend the
elders, and the pious people refused to have
my mother buried in the churchyard, be-
cause of our strange belief. We never had
been Catholics, though my mother’s people
were, and our home had always been a rest-
ingplace for any who had liberal views.
	“We came to America and to Zion, my
father and I, and we are not sorry, though
sometimes we miss our beautiful Italy. Per-
haps had we not come south where we were
told it was balmier and more like our old
home we could better have adapted our-
selves; but we planted a beautiful vineyard
on the Santa Clara and made most excel-
lent wine. But my husband is American and
not content with a little vineyard; he must
reach out after big things; so here we are in
this lonely place where they tell us some
day big capitalists are coming to draw oil
from the earth and then maybe I will be rich
enough to go back to Italy, Switzerland and
France and obtain all the records of my
ancestors and do for them a great work.
For this I am willing to wait, but really
waiting is very monotonous.”
	I rather surprised the quaint little lady at
this juncture by throwing my arms about
her impulsively, saying: “Just one more
lovely testimony of the honest in heart.”
By this time our team was ready and we
had to proceed on our way.

	I do not know whether the oil wells or
the vineyards yielded the money, but Aunt
Dorette and her father made a long visit
to their native land soon afterwards and
doubtless returned with work enough to
keep them busy for a long time to come.
	Well, children, this is only one of the
thousands of stories of how God’s ministers
are led to the honest in heart, and how they
bring to them the light and truth. Maybe
you can guess who the tall, dark man was
when I tell you he was the one who intro-
duced the gospel into Italy, was an Apostle
of the Lord in these our days, and lived to
be the President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world.
And now Goodnight and Happy Dreams.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


In view of the increasing interest in the
question of Woman Suffrage, the New York
World recently asked a number of public
men to give their opinion on the subject. Re-
plies were received from no less than ten
governors of states, every one of whom fa-
vored the proposition, and predicted its ul-
timate success. As illustrating the view
thus held, the reply of Gov. Mann of Vir-
ginia may be quoted: “In my opinion, the
women of Virginia will have equal suffrage
within ten years. Evolution of the demo-
cratic form of government leads irresist-
ibly to this logical result, and, however dis-
tasteful it may be to some, we might as well
face it and prepare for its coming.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
	These experiences thronged into my
mind one day, when I rapped at the door of
a house, in a long row of houses, in a nice
part of Stratford. I had gone all over that
district with first tracts some time before
and was now leaving seconds. A lady
opened the door, and I was explaining the
tract to her when a man’s voice from within
called out, “Come in, I want to see you!”
	Glad of an invitation, I entered without
delay; followed the lady into the parlor,
where a large round table was spread for
tea. A man, I should say of nearly eighty
years, met us at the door. “I want to tell
you,” he said, “that the explanation you
gave of Rev. 14:6, 7 is not correct. It does
not mean a literal angel at all.” After ex-
plaining his idea of the passage, he told me
of a distant relative, who, years ago, had
gone to Utah, and died there, and her fu-
neral expenses had been sent to, or reverted
to him in some way, and he was, even now,
furious about it. He had asked me to be
seated, while he stood before me, accusing
some person unknown to me, of sending his
own mother’s funeral expenses to him to
defray, and on account of this we were im-
posters of the worst kind. When he grew
tired he looked at me (I had not said
much), and said, “You are a good woman,
and sincere, but you are deluded; do you
mind having a word of prayer with me?”
“Not in the least!” So we three knelt
down, and he prayed long and fervently that
the Lord would lead me to his truth, and
make his will plain to me from the error of
my ways to serve him, etc. All this I
could conscientiously subscribe to, so I sol-
emnly joined in his “Amen.” If there was
one thing I desired more than another, it
was that I should understand the truth,
and I was willing to forsake all my errors,
when I found it. When we arose he faced
me again. I said, “You have had your say,
now I will have mine,” and straightway de-
clared that the calling of Joseph Smith was
divine, explaining it. Asserted that Moroni
was the angel spoken of by John and that
some ungrateful son, failing in his duty to
his parent, had nothing to do with the gos-
pel. And I won. The spirit that always ac-
companies the declaration of the truthful-
ness of the mission of Joseph Smith filled
the room and he quieted down. Before this
he had said that if I brought another tract
to his house, in the fire it would go. I
had then turned to his wife, and said, “I
pay for those tracts, and it would be a pity
to burn them,” and she handed them back
to me. Now he said, “if my wife desires
to read those tracts she may.” I handed them
to her again. While all this had been go-
ing on, their children had gathered in the
room, so that we had quite a little meeting;
all of whom were listening to this, to them,
strange conversation. We parted, in a most
friendly manner, the gentleman accompany-
ing me to the door. When we found it
was raining, he proffered me an umbrella,
but I always carried one on my arm. I
earnestly prayed over this man and his fam-
ily that night, plead with the Almighty to
aid him to see and understand the truth.
	Next day, as I was wont to do, I again
visited that row of houses, knocking at the
doors, where I had received no answer on
the previous day. What was my surprise
when the knock on a certain door was an-
swered by the aged minister (you can al-

[Column 2]
ways tell them by the low, round collar, and,
on the street the little low black hat), I had
met yesterday. “You do not live here?” I
nquired. “No, this is my son’s house who
is away. I came to see if all was right.”
“Did you read the tracts?” I asked. His
aged face was working convulsively, and his
hand trembled as he stretched it out to me
and said, “Have you some more tracts?”
The Spirit had borne witness to him of the
truth, and before me was the proof of the
anguish that will come to those who do not
obey it. “May I bring you the Book of
Mormon?” which he had not seen. “Yes.”
“May I bring the elders? You would en-
joy talking with them?” “No; I would
rather talk to you; you come again” Sol
placed him on my reading list of investi-
gators and soon called again, leaving some
more tracts, a Book of Mormon and Life
of Brigham Young. I called again in about
three weeks. The books were ready for
me, but I was informed that he was out,
but did not want any more literature. So
I never saw him again.
	The winter passed as did the one before.
It was so cold that often I did not know
whether I walked on sticks or feet. The
door mats in England are let into the floor,
on the inside, so that the door will open
over them. When I was so very cold, I
would ask the lady to let me stand on the
mat, while I talked to her about the tract I
had brought which introduced the Gospel.
“To be sure, come in,” she would some-
times say, and offer me a cup of tea, and a
piece of cake. I accepted a cup of hot water
quite often, with many thanks. Sometimes
she would let me warm my feet by the open
fire (always an open grate, and though the
fires of thousands of years have been going
up in the air, it is not warm yet outside,
and never very warm inside).
	My companion, Miss Farnsworth, lodged
not very far away from us, so we could
visit occasionally. It was rather a queer
household where we lived. The man, I felt
sure, was the black sheep of some aristo-
cratic family, who had married a barmaid.
(She was a gentle, sweet little woman, the
mother of two children). He tried some
of his charming ways upon us, but found
we were as coldly polite as any English
lady, so we won the wife’s respect, and
lived in her home as long as we remained
in Stratford. (I say her home, because he
was mostly away in London), and before
leaving England, when we called at the
house, we were informed that he was in
prison for some of his dark deeds, and his
wife had gone home to her father. Our
presiding elder held a priesthood meeting
once a week, which was a joy to us all, for
while the elders lived in Stratford we lived
in Leyton, a suburb, and did not see each
other except on Sundays. Comparing notes
and talking over our experiences, with
necessary instructions, we found very ben-
eficial. As soon as the weather permitted
we began our street meetings, where many
friends we had made came to hear us,
among them our landlady, who also came
to the hall the last Sunday evening we were
there. We had learned to love the saints
during our stay among them, and I trust
we had been a blessing to them. My health
was not the best. It was always damp on
the streets, either from rain or sprinkling,
so that I contracted a cold, perhaps from
inhaling the damp air; any way a severe

[Column 3]
cough seized me, which was hard for me,
and disagreeable to the folks in the house.
	In the latter part of March the Confer-
ence was called in London. Before leaving
we promised our landlady to come back to
her, if we were returned to Stratford. Are
those tarred with the same brush as our-
selves? How like oases in the desert are
these meetings to the missionary! In a city
where daily thousands of people thronged
the marts it was next to never we saw a fa-
miliar face. “By this ye shall know that
ye have passed from death unto life, if ye
love the brethren,” and sisters too, might
be added.
	This is in our thoughts as we meet again
in Conference. And this is to be our last
one in London, as well as that of the pres-
idency, they having been released to return
home. President McMurrin was away on
the Continent.
	We were returned to Stratford for the
time being, but President Lyman said we
would be released from field labor April 25
and he invited us to accompany them to
some of the Conferences, so that the saints
might see some of the sisters from Utah,
and we might have a little holiday before
our return home.
	The intervening time we spent in closing
up our work in Stratford, taking leave of
the friends we had made, and bidding fare-
well to the Saints who had done much to
make our stay among them pleasant I de-
voted much time to my class of investiga-
tors, to whom I was greatly attached One
lady said “there were prophets of old, and
I could not say there were to be no more;
if I had heard your doctrine before I made
my friends in life I believe I would have
embraced it.” Another said, “Well, good-
bye! I will look for you in the next world.”
“And I will look for you,” I said: “then
you will know that the testimony I leave
with you is true.” This solemn death
testimony was very strong and we reluc-
tantly parted from each other. I did not
go to see a woman where I once called with
a tract. “Come in,” she said, “I am pretty
good myself; often in the night I hear the
rustling of the angels’ wings.” Afterwards
I learned she was not a good woman, and
was warned not to go there.
	Many hundreds of tracts had been deliv-
ered in Stratford and as many testimonies
borne (as I never left a tract until I could
see the people and explain it). How many
of them will cast their lots with us in time
to come I know not. The seed has been
sown, in humility, prayer and tears, but
God it is who gives the increase We will
now leave it with him.
	One family of saints here have twined
themselves very closely around my heart.
In parting they clung to me weeping that I
must leave them. They appealed so much
to me that after my return home it was my
blessed privilege to bring them to Zion, rais-
ing the money by lectures and concerts,
some of the elders who labored in Strat-
ford (a part of London) lending their aid.
And they have done well, and, after several
years are still faithful and true. They num-
bered seven when I brought them out;
they now number ten: father, mother and
eight promising children. We left London
April 25, sailing from Stepney for Newcas-
tle-on-Tyne for the Conference.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


28			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	 NOVEMBER, 1911


[Column 1]
JOHN HENRY SMITH—A TRIBUTE.
	Better than to be the conqueror of a city
or to rise to victorious heights by treading
the proud passages of human ambition, is
to lose selfishness in the service of God and
to fill one’s days with love of humankind.
Earthly glories and vanities flash and flat-
ter for a time, but soon pass away. En-
during happiness of the completest kind is
only to be gained in the way the Master in-
dicated: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy
God with all thy heart, and thy neighbor
as thyself.”
	This admonition is instinctively brought
to mind when one thinks of John Henry
Smith, servant of God and friend of human-
ity, whose mortal life ended on the 13th of
last month. He was indeed a man to be sin-
cerely mourned, for the relation he sustained
to those who knew him was of the personal,
intimate sort that makes the sense of be-
reavement heartfelt and deep. At some
men’s death we feel a consciousness of great
public loss—we stand stricken, as it were
afar off, in admiration of their conspicuous
talents, and wonderment as to where suc-
cessors shall be found to carry forward
worthily their mighty work. At other men’s
death, we bow in actual sorrow as when the
blow comes against one near and dear to us,
the wound being close to our own heart.
The latter feeling is the one notably mani-
fested at the removal of this beloved chief-
tain in Israel, John Henry Smith.
	Brother John Henry was in the best sense
an optimist. He never from choice looked
at the gloomy side of any situation. When
clouds really were dark and heavy, he was
still cheerful and full of hope. He carried
into his ripe manhood the buoyancy of
youth, to which no obstacle seems insur-
mountable. No weight of years could have
made him old; and his big boyish heart
found fitting place in his fine physical form,
and fitting expression in his warm and affec-
tionate manner. He was a believer in the
germ of goodness that is innate in every
soul, for he looked upon all men as his broth-
ers. He consigned no one to perdition for a
single sin or even a series of them, but with
warm handclasp and hearty words of cheer
he reached out after the erring and rejoiced
in their repentance; this while he abhorred
impurity and had no sympathy with any
form of wrong-doing. But his strong sense
of justice was always tempered with the
splendid attribute of mercy. No bigot he,
though knowing beyond peradventure that
many wilfully chose darkness rather than

[Column 2]
the light which he had received. Hence he
came to deserve the praise that was so gen-
erally accorded him, and mentioned prom-
inently at his obsequies,—he was tolerant
of other men’s beliefs and charitable to all
men’s weaknesses. This would be a hap-
pier world and a better, if there were more
like him in this respect.
	Perhaps no man ever had in more marked
degree than he the gift of making and re-
taining friends. It would be no less uncom-
plimentary than untrue to say he was with-
out enemies. The very qualities that lead
to enduring esteem are sure to provoke oc-
casional and sometimes bitter antipathies. Of
this good man, however, it may be truth-
fully said that while there may have been
those who disliked him, there was not one
against whom he treasured enmity. From
no person worthy of an honorable man’s
friendship was his withheld. And that,
after all, is as far as any man’s self-respect
and honorable sense should permit him to
go.
	It is not the purpose of these lines to in-
dulge in praise or panegyric of this departed
leader in Zion. The Saints all knew and
loved him. His days from infancy have been
spent among the people in these mountain
valleys, and his life has been an open book,
filled with good and faithful deeds, with
acts and words of helpfulness, with constant
devotion to the cause of Truth, with im-
pulses and motives alike an inspiration to the
young, and a comfort to the old, a faithful
soldier of the Cross gone to his sure re-
ward. He will be greatly missed and sin-
cerely mourned, and his memory will ever
be kept green in the hearts of the people
who loved him for the true man that he was.

	John Henry Smith was born near Kanes-
ville, now Council Bluffs, Iowa, Sept. 18,
1848. His parents were George A. and
Sarah Ann Libby Smith. George A. was a
cousin of the Prophet Joseph, their fathers
being brothers, Joseph’s father being Joseph,
and George A.’s father being John, and both
having filled the position of presiding patri-
arch of the Church. The infant John Henry
was brought by his parents to the Valley in
1849, where two years later his mother died,
after being an invalid for many years. He
was reared by his mother’s sister, Hannah
Maria, also a wife of his father, and was al-
ways proud to testify of the influence of this
good, forceful woman upon his life. His
boyhood years were spent in Provo, where
he received such meager educational oppor-
tunities as the schools of those early days af-
forded and he later became a telegraph oper-
ator, and was chosen counselor in the Fourth
ward bishopric. After the completion of the
transcontinental railroad, upon which he la-
bored in the employ of Benson, Farr and
West, he having married in 1866 a daughter
of one of the firm, Lorin Farr, he declined
the offer of a good railroad position in Cali-
fornia, and returned home, and during the
next few years traveled extensively among
the settlements of the Saints in company
with his father and President Young. He
was called on a mission to England in 1874,
but was hastily summoned home the next
year by reason of his father’s severe illness,
arriving only two weeks before that great
man’s death. He re-entered the railway em-
ploy, but was soon after ordained bishop of
the Seventeenth ward, Salt Lake City. He
was chosen an Apostle in October, 1880, and
two years later went again to England, as

[Column 3]
president of the European mission, returning
late in 1884. He became a member of the
First Presidency in April, 1910, after the
death of President John R. Winder, occupy-
ing this high position for a year and a half,
his death occurring suddenly from hemor-
rhage early on the morning of Friday, Oct.
13. Besides the ecclesiastical offices referred
to, he has held many important political and
business positions, being prominent in every
movement looking toward the advancement
of the state, and enjoying a nation-wide ac-
quaintance with and prominence among men
of affairs. In conventions and congresses
where leaders of men meet together to dis-
cuss public questions he was a well-known
and influential figure, and, as said above, had
an almost incomparable gift for making and
retaining friends.
						A. W. C.


JOHN SMITH, PATRIARCH.
	It is very seldom that it becomes necessary
to record in the same issue of any journal
the death of two distinguished members of
the same family, both very prominent in the
community of which they formed a part.
Such becomes the unusual and unhappy duty
of the Exponent at this time.
	Mention has already been made of the de-
mise of President John Henry Smith. His
co-laborer and kinsman, John Smith, presid-
ing patriarch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, obeyed the final sum-
mons and passed to his rest late in the night
of Monday, the 6th of November, three
weeks lacking one day after his cousin was
laid in the tomb. Within a month, there-
fore, the Church has had the sorrowful ex-
perience of parting from two valiant chief-
tains in the cause of Truth, and the Taber-
nacle has twice within that brief period put
on funeral drapery and been the gathering
place of mourning thousands. The double
bereavement recalls in some respects, though
without the awful circumstances, the trag-
edy at Carthage, in 1844, when the father of
one of these leaders and the uncle of both of
them, met their fate at assassins’ hands,
united in death as they had been united in
life.
	John Smith, the fourth presiding patri-
arch of the Church, was the oldest son of
Hyrum Smith, patriarch and martyr, and
therefore a brother of President Joseph F.
Smith. He was born at Kirtland, Ohio,
September 22, 1832, his mother, Jerusha
Barden, dying when he was five years old.
As a lad he went to Missouri with his father,
and his early boyhood was spent among the
cruel scenes enacted there against the
Saints; he was also among those banished
from the city of Nauvoo, moving westward
with the family of Heber C. Kimball. While
camped on the banks of the Missouri river
near the present city of Council Bluffs he
tenderly nursed back to health Col. Thomas
L. Kane, the devoted friend of the perse-
cuted Saints who, while engaged in con-
tinual efforts to help them, had contracted
a fever from which he almost died. Brother
Smith here rejoined his father’s family, and
remained with them at Winter Quarters on
this side of the river until 1848, when he
came to the Salt Lake valley, arriving on
his sixteenth birthday.
	He was ordained to his high office on the


18th of February, 1855, previous incum-
bents having been his grandfather, his father
and his grand-uncle. In 1862 he was called
on a mission to Scandinavia, and started out
to cross the plains on horseback without
purse or scrip. His way was opened up be-
fore him, however, and he fulfilled a lengthy
and honorable mission, during which he
mastered the Scandinavian languages.
	While a man of retiring disposition, and 
not given to multiplying of words or seek-
ing after prominence in public speaking or
public affairs, he was nevertheless widely
known and beloved for his goodness of
heart. He was spiritual in a marked degree,
as became his patriarchal lineage and call-
ing, and he loved to promise rich blessings 
upon the heads of those deserving of them.
An instance of his obedience to the prompt-
ings of the Spirit was narrated at his funer-
al: to a man who came to receive a blessing
under his hands, he replied that he did not
feel like complying at the time; such a 
blessing as the visitor desired he did not feel
able to pronounce, while such promises as
he probably should be led to make, his vis-
itor would not like to hear; and it subse-
quently transpired that the applicant proved
himself altogether unworthy.
	All the speakers at his funeral, which
took place on the 12th inst., testified to his
excellence as a man and his fidelity as a
servant of the Lord; the vast audience in 
attendance attested by their presence the es-
teem in which he was held; and the many
thousands thoroughout Zion who knew and
have been benefited by association with him
will unite in mourning his loss and honoring
his memory.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


UTAH WOMEN AT CHICAGO.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, Mrs. Amy B. Ly-
man, Assistant General Secretary, and Mrs.
Ardella W. Eardley of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
were in attendance at the executive session
of the National Council of Women held in 
Chicago on the 13th and 14th of Novem-
ber. The Utah ladies received marked at-
tention and were most active both in com-
mittee work and in the deliberations of the
general assembly. The meetings were in
the Auditorium and were attended by rep-
resentative women from local councils and
organizations throughout the land. 
	A memorial service was held in honor of
the late president, Lillian M. Hollister. The
first session was presided over by the first
vice-president, Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett,
who after these exercises was taken violent-
ly ill and not able to preside at any more
of the meetings, much to the sorrow and
regret of those present. However, the cor-
responding secretary, Mrs. Flo Jamison
Miller, carried the work along and presided
most ably during the remainder of the ses-
sion. 
	Following the adjournment of the council
Miss Jane Addams of Hull House enter-
tained the delegates at luncheon and they
were afterwards shown through that insti-
tution and its different departments were
explained to them. In the city of Chicago
the greatest possible interest is shown in the
welfare of children, and every possible 
means is being taken to preserve life and
give proper care and training to the child.


Many excellent resolutions for the better-
ment of women were passed and splendid
work was outlined for the future.  The
Utah visitors had an enjoyable though stren-
uous time, and returned in good health to
again resume their work at home
						A. W. C.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The next number of the Exponent, the
issue for December, marks the closing of the
year, and the time seems appropriate for a
settlement of accounts. Subscribers will ad-
mit that we have been very lenient in push-
ing collections, and it is with reluctance that
the matter is hinted at now. But important
alterations and improvements in the paper
are in contemplation, for the carrying out
of which it is quite essential that all sub-
scription accounts be settled and all collec-
tions made. Feeling that our patrons will
understand the reasons for this urgency, we
trust they will exert themselves to comply
promptly with the request now made.
	The General Relief Society has been the
recipient of three handsome presents which
add to the adornment of these headquarters.
One is a very beautiful piece of needlework
by Mrs. Rebecca Brown, aged 75, in the
shape of an unfurled flag; the work is quite
remarkable, especially when one considers
the age of the lady. San Juan Stake Re-
lief Society sent a large Navajo rug, the
brightness of whose colors adds to the cheer-
fulness of the rooms. The Pine Grove ward
of Union Stake, Oregon, presents a sofa
pillow prettily done in white and blue. For
all these we are very grateful, and appre-
ciate the thoughtful givers.
	The selected chorus of two hundred
voices from the Tabernacle Choir have
made a most successful and enjoyable trip
to New York and other eastern points, and
return laden with immeasurable honor. The
daily papers followed their progress from
day to day, and it is not necessary to go into
any detail of the trip—only to assert our
own interest in the singers individually and
collectively. That Utah and her people
have been greatly benefited through this
trip is without question, for the world will
better realize how education and the arts are
encouraged here. The fact that the singers
were in New York to participate in the
exercises of the presentation of the silver
service to the battleship Utah was also a 
matter for congratulation; and the recep-
tion tendered the singers by the nation’s
Executive at the White House in Washing-
ton was a marked courtesy not shown to
many. It was also most fitting that on
their return trip they were able to assist in
the dedicatory services of the monument to
Oliver Cowdery, one of the three witnesses
of the Book of Mormon, at Richmond, Mo.
We join heartily in their welcome home.


[Column 1]
	NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	We must now revise our suffrage maps,
and get ready a big new star to be sewn
upon our suffrage flags. Nobody will
grudge the trouble.
	Alborg is the first Danish city where a
woman constable will soon appear in the
streets. She will wear ordinary dress, in-

[Column 2]
stead of uniform, and her special duty will
be to keep a sharp eye on persons of her
own sex.
	Mrs. Beatrice Forbes-Robertson Hale,
with her baby daughter, returned from Eu-
rope recently to take up her lecture work
for equal suffrage in this country. On the
voyage over, Mrs. Hale gave a suffrage ad-
dress that made a deep impression on her
fellow passengers.
	Miss Rogstead, the first woman to repre-
sent a constituency in the Norwegian Parlia-
ment, made her first speech before that body
a few days ago, and it is said that the entire
assembly rose when she began. A New York
paper facetiously remarked that such chiv-
alry was not displayed in the subway.
	Rabbi Ephraim Frisch, of Arkansas, in a
recent address, said: “We cannot have
enough of woman’s work and spirit in any
phase of our endeavors. Woman has be-
come the custodian and champion of our
very most precious possessions—our litera-
ture, our music, our art, our homes and our
children. Why should we fear extending to
her the privilege of voting?”
	The women town councillors are reported
to have won in the recent fight in Reykjavik,
the capital of Iceland. For several days
there was a deadlock in the town council
over the lighting of the city. All the men
members were in favor of electricity while
the women stood solidly for gas, because
they wished to use it for cooking also. Aft-
er considerable hesitation the mayor cast his
vote with the women.
	Vermont suffragists are appealing to busi-
ness men by means of display paid advertise-
ments in the leading newspapers, setting
forth the acknowledged merits of votes for
women as a means for advertising their
State. “Vermont men who love the freedom
which your fathers won for you,” reads
one, “pay your debt by winning freedom
for your daughters. Advertise Vermont by
getting votes for Vermont women!”—The
Woman’s Journal.
	The aptitude of women for vocations hav-
ing to do with fabrics has gained recognition
from one of the most famous textile schools
in the world, that in Grayfield, Germany.
Hitherto only men students have been ad-
mitted, but the bars have been lowered and
in behalf of an American girl, Bessie Ben-
nett, assistant director of the Chicago Art
Institute and curator of the museum. Al-
ready well versed in textiles, she will follow
special courses in the German institute on
invitation of the head of the school.
	Miss Edith Campbell, member-at-large of
the Cincinnati Board of Education, is a
graduate of the Cincinnati University,
where she took her master’s degree, and
also served for a year as instructor in eco-
nomics. She became Director of the
Schmidlapp Fund for Girls in 1908, and a
year later it was enlarged under her direc-
tion into an employment bureau for women
and girls. She has been much interested in
educational matters, the industrial school
for girls, and the Work Certificate Bureau,
conducted by the Board of Education, is un-
der the joint direction of Miss Campbell
and E. N. Clopper, Secretary of the National
Child Labor Commission for the Middle
Western States. She has also been greatly
interested in the Delaware Industrial Home
for Girls, the condition of which aroused


club women all over the country and caused
a personal visit to the place by Governor
Harmon and his wife, with the result that
conditions were much improved. 
	Miss Campbell’s victory gives her a three-
fold distinction. She is the first woman
elected to any public office in Cincinnati,
though several have been candidates before.
She is the first candidate ever elected to
the Board of Education in Cincinnati who
ran as an independent candidate, and she
goes on record as the first woman in the
United States for whom a President of the
United States cast his vote.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FREAKISH DRESS FOE TO SUFFRAGE.
	Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, author and lec-
turer, is quoted as saying:
	“Nothing has done so much harm to suf-
frage in the last fifty years as the way wom-
en have dressed themselves in the last year
or two. They have aroused general con-
tempt and criticism, and have made men say
everywhere that they have neither sense nor
judgment, and so are not fit to be trusted
with the ballot.
	“No woman who enters a great movement
can allow herself the same freedom she en-
joyed, before. She is no longer responsible
merely as an individual. She is the em-
bodiment of the cause she represents.
	“If she is a suffragist whatever silly thing
she does is charged up to suffrage by the
men. Therefore, I am convinced that no
one thing has hurt the suffrage cause so
much as the way women have dressed or un-
dressed in the last few years.
	“Their hats alone have made them the
laughing stock of the country. These ridic-
ulous objects are without excuse in either
shape or trimming, and they are made worse
by the wearing of long hatpins.
	“The most influential women have worn
dresses on the street and in public places in
which a woman of the demi-monde would
not have appeared a few years ago.
	“They are everywhere,” she said. “Al-
most every little town has would-be ‘smart’
women who parade the streets in all the
latest indecent eccentricities of fashion.
	“Of course, these women really form the
smallest proportion compared with the
working woman, the mother of families, and
the woman doing splendid service in
churches and other organizations. But, like
the froth and foam they are, they come to
the top. They show themselves in public
and assume a much larger place than they
really occupy. If they only injured them-
selves it would not be so bad, but they in-
jure every good thing other women try
to do and go a long way to counteract
the magnificent work women have actually
accomplished.”—From Chicago Tribune.


[Column 1]
		SELF-CONTROL.
	The following paper was read before the
Yellowstone Stake Relief Society:

	“Honor and fame from no condition rise,
	Act well your part, there all the honor lies.”

	True greatness is measured by the deeds
done or the good accomplished, not by the
amount of wealth possessed. We are placed
upon the earth to be tried and tested; we are
surrounded by environments of every na-
ture. There are those who are ready to help
us climb, and others who are anxious to pull

[Column 2]
us down. If we stand the test and reach a
standard of honor and usefulness, we must
learn to govern the impulses and passions of
human nature. We have many examples in
men and women who have attained success
and made the world better for their having
lived in it. I have in mind now a young
man who took for his ideals the great heroes
in history, and when problems confronted
him he would ask himself, what would these
great men have done under the same cir-
cumstances; consequently his life was a
great success, for,

	“Lives of great men all remind us
		We can make our lives sublime, 
	And departing, leave behind us,
		Footprints on the sands of time.”

	To make our lives successful and lay a
firm foundation for true greatness we must
be master of ourselves, for “He that is slow
to anger is better than the mighty: and he
that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a
city.”
	Then let us as individuals and as parents
strive to uphold the good, and discard every-
thing from our dispositions and our homes
that is not pure and clean and sweet. Let
us instill into the lives of our children those
three factors that go to make up a grand and
noble character—a knowledge of right and
wrong; an awakened strong conscience, and
a developed dominating will, for these con-
stitute self-control. A child to be self gov-
erning must learn to use its own reasoning
powers. Too often we decide for our chil-
dren. Teach them to grow up with the
power to discern right from wrong, and have
power to trample underfoot that which an
experienced conscience tells them is wrong.
Teach a child that it is possible to control
every appetite on impulse of its nature.
Teach it to say, “I can and I will obey the
laws of God and be of some use in the
world.” Picture to it the awfulness of doing
wrong and the misery caused through com-
mitting sin, then picture the joy, peace, and
contentment experienced through overcom-
ing evil and pleasing its Heavenly Father
and obeying its parents.
	If we force a child to do right because
we are stronger and can inflict pain upon its
little body, we only weaken its will power
or force it into rebellion. It is much bet-
ter never to punish in anger, but to govern
by love, and give a reason for the request
made. The child should be taught to do
right for right’s sake and not through fear
of punishment or ridicule. Punishment
should be resorted to only after everything
else has failed. Often a little patience and
perhaps a story will cause a child to choose
the right, when scolding or force would
cause him to submit but would implant a
rebellious spirit and a determination to have
his own way as soon as he is big enough to
resist compulsions.
	Will is the most important agent in the
formation of what we call character. A de-
veloped will is at the foundation of one’s
self mastery in every domain. A strong
will enables one to choose the right, and
every such choice strengthens character.
Stronger than heredity or environment, (in
determining a person’s destiny) is a man’s
own will.
	Surround the child with everything at
your command that will add to his strength
and enlarge his confidence in ultimate suc-
cess. The value of self-control is known
only to those who have mastered self. Happy
indeed is the man or woman, boy or girl,

[Column 3]
who has the power to resist temptation and
say yes or no at the right time. In the ex-
ercising of any of the virtues, such as po-
liteness, courtesy, patience, or in the faithful
performance of duty, self-control is an es-
sential. Any mother in going about her du-
ties realizes how necessary it is for the
peace, happiness, and contentment of all in
the home, that she be master of self. And
by so doing she would ever be an example
to her family and a light to their footsteps.

	“School thy feelings O my brother.
		Train thy warm, impulsive soul,
	Do not its emotions smother, 
		But Jet wisdom’s voice control.
	School thy feelings, there is power
		In the cool collected mind,
	Passion shatters reason’s tower,
		Makes the clearest vision blind.”
				JANETTE C. MILLER,
				ETHEL M. HUMPHREYS.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		CARBON STAKE.
	The Carbon Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held at Price, August 4, 1911.
President Pauline Pace presiding.
	After opening exercises and roll call,
showing eighteen officers present, remarks
by President Pace, reporting the stake work
and financial condition. The wards were
reported as being in good order. Sister
Edna Davis of the General Board related
the legend of Peter and John, and gave ex-
cellent instructions. Sister Susa Y. Gates,
also of the General Board, explained the
qualifications of members of the Relief So-
ciety. Dwelt upon the storing grain and
making libraries in the Relief Society. She
advised all members to become subscribers
of the Exponent.
	Bishop Albert Bryner endorsed what had
been said, as did also First Counselor Oliver
J. Harmon. 
	At the afternoon session, Sister Eliza
Horsely made a few remarks encouraging
the sisters to attend to their duties; and
narrating some of her missionary experi-
ences. A solo was rendered by Sister Nellie
Wilson.
	Sister Edna Davis spoke of how faith can
be increased in the home; and Sister Susa
Y. Gates said the Relief Society of Emery
Stake was the first to contribute to the
Woman’s Building at Salt Lake City. She
spoke of the mother’s influence in the home,
and instructed the sisters how to dress on
coming to the Temple.
	Elder Arthur W. Horsely spoke of the
good work the Society was performing, also
endorsing the remarks of the preceding
speakers.
	President Pauline Pace made closing re-
marks, and after singing “The Spirit of
God,” benediction was offered by Elder
Ernest S. Horsely.
				MARY E. PACE,
					Acting Secretary.
		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The Relief Society annual conference of
Yellowstone Stake was held July 20, 1911.
There were present President Daniel G. Mil-
ler; Bishop A. D. Miller, of the St. An-
thony ward; the bishops of Ashton and
Farnum, two high councilors, and Sisters
Sarah J. Cannon and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth of the General Board, also eight Re-
lief Society Stake officers.


[Column 1]
	President Julia E. Miller welcomed the
sisters to the conference after which the
following Societies were reported as being
in a thriving condition: Marysville, Ash-
ton and Parker. Sister Miller reported the
Societies as being in good working order,
the stake officers as being united and all
keeping the Word of Wisdom. 
	Stake Treasurer Rhoda A. Mason gave
a financial report, after which Sister Vera
C. Sharp of St. Anthony rendered a vocal
solo. Sister Farnsworth spoke for some
time on the beauties of Relief Society work,
and gave many other good instructions; and
Sister Cannon spoke on the duties of the Re-
lief Society teacher, also on the need of be-
ing charitable to all. 
	Bishop Cunningham of the Ashton ward
told of the help the Relief Society is to the
Bishopric. 
	The afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.
with President Julia E. Miller presiding. 
	The following societies were reported: 
Farnum, Egin, and Wilford; and words of
welcome were given by First Counselor
Mary J. Miller, followed by a duet from
Marysville ward. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon spoke on the stor-
ing of grain; suggested that the Relief So-
ciety should have a reserve fund for emer-
gencies. 
	Sister Farnsworth spoke of genealogical
work; told of the evils of the saloon and
gave other good instructions. 
	Brother C. E. Lloyd of the High Council
encouraged the sisters in the good work. 
President D. G. Miller spoke of the grand
work of the mothers. He said each mem-
ber of the Relief Society should be a mis-
sionary. 
	A paper on Mother’s Class Work was read
by Sister Ethel M. Humphreys. 
	After a duet by two little girls of Marys-
ville ward, benediction was pronounced by
Bishop A. D. Miller. 
				MARY E. BROWER. 
								Secretary. 

		ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 
	A Relief Society conference of the St. 
Joseph Stake was held at Thatcher, October
1 in the meeting house. A business ses-
sion convened at 10 a. m., at which a good
representation of the officers from all the
branches was present. A number of the
bishops and brethren were in attendance, al-
so Sister Elizabeth McCune of the General
Board, President Elizabeth W. Layton, all
of the St. Joseph Stake Board, and about
thirty-eight officers, which is a good show-
ing. 
	First Counselor Selena Phillips, who was
in charge, made pleasant and congratulatory
remarks at the opening and was followed by
reports from different local presidents; Pima
society by Sena Norton; Matthews ward by
Mary Mack; Eden by Carrie Blair; Emery
by Olive Windsor; Graham by Hattie Skin-
ner; Layton by Louise Welker; Central by
Diantha Smith; Thatcher by Adelia Tyler,
all in a very fair condition. 
	President E. W. Layton gave a detailed
report of the Relief Society of the Stake. 
Said that all the wards had been visited, and
been encouraged in their work. All were up
in their lessons except in the Doctrine and
Covenants, sections of which had been rec-
ommended for the work meetings. Those
societies that have taken hold of this study,

[Column 2]
testify of the great worth it has been to
them. Believed that much good was being
accomplished in the way of donations and
in assistance to the poor. 
	Sister McCune spoke of the origin of the
Relief Society, its aim and object as ex-
plained by the Prophet Joseph Smith. We
must each do our duty if we become identi-
fied with this great work, and not allow a
few to do it all. Realized that the officers
had great responsibilities and perhaps they
were not always appreciated, but we must
seek to know our duty and then ask God to
help us to perform it, no matter how difficult
it may seem. We must be kind to the poor
and aid them, for thereby we gain a bless-
ing; diligent in holding our meetings even
if only a few are present. Encouraged the
storing of wheat and not keep our wheat
money, as it would be useless should a fam-
ine come. Urged the mothers to see that
their young people go to the Temple to be
married, that their children might be born
under the covenant; recommended economy
and simplicity in our Temple clothes. 
	At 2 p. m. the Relief Society conference
was held in connection with the ward meet-
ing. The house was filled, many coming
from other wards. The Thatcher choir was
in attendance, and rendered some beautiful
anthems. 
	After the administration of the sacrament,
the time was given over to the sisters and
President Elizabeth W. Layton presided,
and introduced Sister Elizabeth McCune,
who occupied most of the remaining time
and to good advantage. She began by de-
scribing the scenes of some of her travels
and incidents connected therewith. Spoke
on subjects of importance to Latter-day
Saints, more especially of Temple work for
the dead. Urged that families organize, for
the purpose of raising a fund to obtain their
genealogy which in some instances is very
difficult. The work of the Lord must be
done in order and holiness, and we can do
it only by seeking His assistance each hour
of the day. 
	Conference adjourned for six months,
after the anthem, “Hark, what mean those
holy voices,” with benediction by President
C. M. Layton.
			JOSEPHINE KIMBALL,
							Secretary. 

	PORTLAND BRANCH, OREGON. 
	A special meeting of the Portland Branch
Relief Society was held September 27, 1911. 
Sister Elizabeth Crismon of the General
Board of Relief Societies was in attendance. 
There were present of the local society three
officers and ten members, as was also H. A. 
Benson, secretary of the N. W. States Mis-
sion. 
	President Emma Holling called meeting
to order and presided. After opening ex-
ercises, roll call and reading of minutes,
Sister Crismon addressed the meeting. She
spoke of some of the things being done by
the society for the betterment of conditions
at home, especially for those of our sex who
are laboring in stores, factories, etc. She
urged the sisters to set proper examples
before the younger girls that they may be
kept in the path of purity. She thought also
that the work of the Relief Society should
extend farther than to relieve mere physical
want and that the sisters should minister to
the people and encourage them in spiritual

[Column 3]
things as well as in temporal, and urged the
sisters to cultivate right thinking as well as
right living in order to get the best out of
life. 
	Sister Oberry spoke a short time and bore
her testimony to the divinity of the mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the founder
of the Relief Society. 
	Elder H. A. Benson spoke for a short time
encouraging the sisters in their work and
calling attention to some of the conditions
that have to be met and dealt with in the
uplift of humanity. 
	Sister Catherine Woodbury, one of our
lady missionaries who had been called to go
to Spokane, Wash., and labor, also spoke
for a short time and bore her testimony to
the work. 
				H. A. BENSON,
					Secretary Pro tem. 

			UINTAH STAKE. 
	The annual Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Uintah Stake was held in the Stake
tabernacle, August 9, 1911, beginning at
10 a. m. President Nancy A. Colton pre-
siding. 
	There were present of the priesthood:
Stake Counselor Ernest Eaton; three High
Councilors; one Bishop; four Elders, and
three visiting brethren; also Sisters Susa
Young Gates and Edna May Davis of the
General Board. 
	President Colton welcomed the brethren
and sisters, and also reported the Society
in good condition. Mrs. Fannie E. Stew-
art, supervisor of mother’s work, reported
the work and read the outlines of last year’s
also this year’s work.
	Sister Edna May Davis related some of
the benefits received from prayer when we
pray in faith, doubting nothing; spoke of
some of her travels, and of the first princi-
ples of the gospel. Referring to our dress,
she said we should not follow the fashions
of the world, and in conclusion urged each
and every one to try and keep the command-
ments of the Lord. 
	A recitation was given by Miss Mary
Merkley. 
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates compared the
belief of the Latter-day Saints with other
denominations; advised the mothers to ed-
ucate their children in the gospel, for “train
a child in the way it should go it will not
depart from it.” She spoke some of her
travels in distant lands as well as at home. 
	President Colton made a few closing re-
marks in regard to the duties of the Relief
Society. 
	An officers’ meeting was held between ses-
sions, at which President Keturah Merkley
reported Vernal First ward; and President
Hannah B. Odekirk reported Vernal Sec-
ond ward Society in good condition. 
	Miss Edna May Davis gave instructions
as to storing grain and of the clothes to be
worn in the Temple of the Lord. 
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates said President
Emmeline B. Wells wished all the Relief
Societies to have a good library, and sug-
gested a way to start one. She advised the
teachers in regard to their duties especially
in regard to prayer in time of trouble and
when they go out teaching the people. 
	At the afternoon session Mrs. Susa
Young Gates was the first speaker. She
said the gospel is nothing new, it is preached
just the same today as it was in the rise of


[Column 1]
the Church. She spoke of her travels in
England, Switzerland, Germany, France, the
islands of the sea, from north to south, and
east to west. She had raised her voice in all
of these in defense of the gospel of Jesus
Christ. She advised mothers to teach their
children honor and respect for the priest-
hood, and spoke at some length on self-
destruction. She also spoke of the resur-
rection and baptism for the dead.
	A song was given by a group of little
girls from Maeser, accompanied by Miss
Meda Carpenter.
	Stake President Don B. Colton spoke of
the firmness of children’s views as to the
gospel when they have been taught from
childhood. He urged the sisters to be com-
panions to their children, to teach them the
gospel and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ,
also unity in the home.
	A recitation was given by Miss Zara
Colton.
	Miss Edna May Davis spoke on obedience
and urged all to do their duty.
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham encouraged
every one present to live up to what we
have heard, and asked the mothers to see
that their children have proper books, that
they may get their lessons for the different
organizations in the Church. She thanked
the sisters of Vernal First and Second ward
for their hospitality, and President Nancy
A. Colton thanked all for their attendance.
	After a song by Sisters Mina Pack and
Bathera Young, accompanied by Miss Oral
Wilson, Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett in behalf of
the Stake Board thanked the visiting sis-
ters from Salt Lake City for their presence,
and the benediction was given by Elder
Sterling D. Colton.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
							Secretary.

		BIG HORN STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
the Big Horn Stake of Zion, held at Byron
meeting house, August 20, 1911. President
Mary L. Welch presiding; meeting opened
at 10 a. m., with usual exercises.
	Minutes of forenoon session of our last
conference were read and accepted. As it
was Sunday, President Mary L. Welch felt
to thank the Bishop for the use of the meet-
ing house. Reports of the different associ-
ations were given. Millie Egan gave a
piano selection. Sisters Phebe Young Beatie
and Sarah McLelland of the General Board
were introduced, and spoke as follows:
	Sister Beatie was pleased to see so many
young women at work in our Society, felt
we should aim to have our young busy, also
spoke of the duties of the teachers of the
Society, said they were the backbone, en-
couraged us to be cheerful and learn to
look pleasant, especially around the sick, re-
lated a circumstance in her own life, felt
that Relief Society sisters should be united
and love one another, should be charitable,
patient, and kind and care for our young
girls, both ours and our neighbors’. She also
spoke in regard to nurse work, she thought
our young girls ought to be taught in this
course.
	Sister McLelland stated that this was the
largest audience she had met in the Society
for several months. She related instances
of some of our outside friends in regards
to the Book of Mormon, also said that our
missionary boys felt to encourage the moth-
ers to aid them in their work, related a
“story,” to the little folks showing what a
mother’s influence has over the children in

[Column 2]
early childhood, felt that the Lord prepared
us for our work if we only live for it.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Benediction, Stake Counselor R. C. May.
	Afternoon session.—Was presided over
by President Mary L. Welch. After the
usual opening exercises, President Wm. C.
Partridge spoke for a few moments.
	Retta Porter read an essay on, “Benevo-
lence.”
	Vocal solo, Pattie Hatch.
	Sister McLelland spoke, saying she was
very much pleased with the possibilities for
our young folks in this country. She com-
pared the lives of young men and women in
the cities to those in the country, and on the
farm, and told of the missionary work be-
ing done in Salt Lake City for the young
girls. She spoke also of the wickedness that
is going on and felt that Relief Society sis-
ters should reach out a helping hand and
aid all those they could. She related her
missionary experiences and visit to Nauvoo,
she saw the house of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and many other prominent places.
Sister Beatie spoke in regards to our li-
braries which President Emmeline B. Wells
wished each association to have.
	President Mary L. Welch gave notice of
a Relief Society meeting to be held at Cow-
ley, Monday the 21st, and wished to thank
all those who had helped to make this con-
ference a success.
	Benediction by Relief Society Stake
Counselor, Sarah Partridge.
					LIBBIE SNELL,
					Acting Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Following are some timely and well-
proven recipes:
	CRANBERRIES.—3 cups berries, 1 1/4 cups
sugar, 1 cup boiling water, cover and boil
ten minutes; this is not strained; jells nice-
ly, and keeps the bright color.
	FILLING FOR SQUASH PIE.—Two cups
of squash, one cup milk, 1/4 cup sugar, 1/2
teaspoonful salt, 1/4 teaspoonful cinnamon,
1/4 teaspoonful ginger, a little nutmeg and
2 eggs. This quantity makes two pies.
	DECORATIONS—In place of flowers, which
in winter time are expensive and hard to
obtain, a basket of fruit with ivy leaves
entwined makes a pretty and inexpensive
table decoration.
	MAHOGANY CAKE.—1/2 cup chocolate
grated and 1/2 cup milk boiled together, 1/2
cup of butter, 1 1/2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour,
3 eggs, 1/2 cup sweet milk, 1 level teaspoon-
ful of soda, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Bake 30
minutes in moderate oven.
	ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.—1 lb. brown
sugar, 1 lb. suet, 1 lb. bread crumbs, 1 lb.
raisins, 1 lb. currants, 1/4 lb. citron and lem-
on peel, 1/2 oz. each mace, cinnamon and
allspice, 1 nutmeg, 9 eggs (beat the yolks
and whites separately), 1 cup milk, enough
flour to make a nice stiff batter. Boil in
mould or bag from eight to ten hours the
first day, and four to six hours the day of
using.


[Column 1]
		OBITUARY NOTES.
		Mary Ann Whittle.
	At Richmond on the 5th of June, death called
Sister Mary Ann Whittle, one of the dear
faithful women of the Church. Sister Whittle
was a great sufferer from rheumatism and for

[Column 2]
many years past quite helpless. She bore her
affliction with great patience and gentleness of
spirit and fully appreciated the tender care of
her loving children. Sister Whittle was born
at Springfield, Ill., April 1st, 1839, came to
Utah with her parents in 1848, and has ever
been a faithful and consistent Latter-day
Saint.
		Christiana S. Rasmussen.
	Christiana Sorensen Rasmussen, secretary
of the Relief Society of Lyman, Utah, died on
the 29th of August.
	Sister Rasmussen was one of those faithful,
unselfish women, whose loss will long be great-
ly felt, for she was full of kindness and devo-
tion to all around her. She was a most un-
tiring and efficient laborer in the Relief So-
ciety, was a member of the ward choir and
a worker in the Sunday School. Sister Ras-
mussen was one of those devoted Saints who
pushed a hand-cart across the plains to join her
fate with the Latter-day Saints, and though
only seventeen years old when she came to
these valleys, was rich in testimony and faith.
She was a loving and tender wife and mother
and when left a widow at an early age proved
her strength of character in the manner in
which she reared her family of three boys to a
true and honest manhood.
	The memory of her faithfulness and integ-
rity are an inspiration and comfort to her fam-
ly.
			Mary Pratt Young.
	When the spirit of Mary Pratt Young an-
swered the final summons, one of Zion’s choic-
est daughters was called home.
	A woman of rare qualities of heart and mind
whose very presence was an inspiration and
whose words were always full of comfort, and
bespoke the thoughtful mind, Sister Mary
bore life’s trials gently and bravely and re-
joiced in all the good things that came to her
or hers. There could not be a more tender
mother, sister, friend or neighbor, and those
who knew her best loved her most. When the
Granite Stake Relief Society was organized Sis-
ter Young was made first counselor to Sister
Emma Woodruff, and filled that position with
an earnestness of effort not to be excelled.
	To quote Sister Woodruff’s own words we
can say, “There is nothing too good to be said
of her and we shall sadly miss her in our
work, and in our lives.”
	Mary Pratt Young was the daughter of Par-
ley P. Pratt and his wife Mary, and possessed
both the intellectual attainments and refine-
ment of manner so characteristic of her par-
ents. She died October 25th, 1911.
		Margaret H. Clark.
	Sister Margaret H. Clark, president of the
Panguitch Ward Relief Society, departed this
life May 20, 1911. Sister Clark was the daugh-
ter of James and Margaret Houston, and was
born Dec. 1, 1855 in Salt Lake City, Utah.
“Aunt Maggie,” as she was lovingly called,
was an exceptionally fine woman. As a wife
and mother she could scarcely be excelled,
being of a sweet, lovable disposition, firm and
steadfast in adhering to principle, and a wom-
an of great faith. Her home was ever a
clean, beautiful place of rest and comfort,
where friends and strangers alike found a
welcome. She was the wife of Riley G. Clark
who preceded her to the other side. They had
eleven children, seven of whom survive them.
	Sister Clark has held many positions of
trust and honor. She was the first president
of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Panguitch Ward, and
later a Stake officer in the Mutual. She acted
as a counselor in the Relief Society for many
years, and had acted as president but a few
months when called away by death; but dur-
ing those few months she was successful in
accomplishing a great work and made im-
provements which will be lasting. She will be
greatly missed by those with whom she was
associated.
	The following beautiful words, written by
Sister Emmeline B. Wells, apply most aptly
to our beloved president:
A saintly face and a great mother-heart,
So rich in grace and charity thou art.
That evermore our reverence shall be
A loving tribute to thy memory.
				MARIA L. SARGENT.
				MARIA L. HEYWOOD,
				MINNIE B. GARDNER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

