Vol. 40						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1912						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
Clara Barton and the Red Cross............... 
	.........................Annie Wells Cannon	57
General Relief Society Conference..........	58
Suggestions for the Relief Society............	60
Editorial: The Titanic................................	60
	Our Temple of the Drama.................	60
Reminiscences of Mrs. A. Agatha Pratt....	62
In Loving Remembrance of Mary A.
	Freeze........................V. C. McCune	63
Relief Society Reports: Liberty Stake......	63
	St Joseph Stake ................................	63
Improve Hell’s Gate ................................	63
Notes and News..............................59, 61,	64
Poetry: “Come Unto The House of the Lord
		and Ye Shall Find Rest”............	57
	Mary A. Freeze..............E. R. Shipp	59


“COME UNTO THE HOUSE OF THE
LORD AND YE SHALL FIND REST.”

I know a home on Zion’s Hill
	Far greater than all earthly homes—
Its name? “A Temple of our God,”
	In majesty it stands alone.

Its holy walls are built of stone;
	It rests on dedicated ground;
An angel guards its lofty dome,
	Heard in its halls are sacred sounds

There strains of tuneful praise are heard, 
	Of Saints who worship there their God 
Who praise His name with thankful hearts
	For wonders marvellously wrought.

It is a home where love and light,
	Where hope and joy and peace abound;
One place on earth where hallowed Faith
	And rest from weary toil are found.

Prepared for Jesus is this place
	When He in glory shall appear,
Where we shall meet Him face to face,
	And listen to His words so dear.

Eternity! Thou glorious word!
	Oh, may we come to comprehend:
Eternal union will be ours
	If we obey our Lord’s command.
						—Emilie Maeser.


[Column 1]
CLARA BARTON AND THE RED CROSS.
	Clara Barton, the brave, noble, heroic
Clara Barton, is dead, died of pneumonia,
at the ripe age of ninety years, at her home
in Glen Echo, Maryland, April 12. 
	There would hardly seem to be adequate
words to speak of the great work of this
wonderful woman, for her name is a syn-
onym for all that is most worthy. Like
some other heroines of history her life was
sacrificed to a cause. She denied herself
the great joys and comforts of the wife and
home-maker in order to use all her talents
for humanity; and now she has been called
to the Great Beyond, having lived nearly a

[Column 2]
century, devoting all the best years of her
life to the work of philanthropy. Miss Bar-
ton spent the evening of her days quietly
at her beautiful home in Maryland, sur-
rounded with mementoes of her experiences
in war and disasters and many rare and
precious gifts from friends and grateful
people whom she had served. Her home
was a sort of shrine to which hundreds of
tourists sought admission just to see this
wonderful little woman and show her their
esteem. To all she extended a cordial wel-
come, and delighted her visitors by relating
some of her experiences and showing to
some of the more favored ones her numer-
ous medals and decorations.
	Clarissa Harlowe Barton was born near
Oxford, Mass., on Christmas day, 1821.
For several years she taught school in her
native village, and later helped organize the
public school system in New Jersey by open-
ing a free school, beginning with six pupils
in a dilapidated old house and having at the
year’s end 600 pupils in a fine brick building
erected for her. She accepted a position in
the Patent office at Washington in 1853,
where her efficiency was most marked. Her
real life work, however, found its beginning
when the war broke out between the North
and the South. It was then that her atten-
tion was called to the lack of provision for
taking care of wounded soldiers on the bat-
tlefield and for bringing to the men comfort
and delicacies from home and friends. The
history of this part of her career forcibly
shows her skill in leadership and organiza-
tion as well as her courage, generosity and
tenderness. At the close of the war she
was appointed by President Lincoln to head
a commission to trace missing soldiers. After 
this sad and laborious task Miss Barton was
much broken down in health and she took
a vacation to Europe. While on this vaca-
tion and during her sojourn in Geneva she 
was invited to attend the meeting of public
utilities which, as those familiar with Red
Cross work already know, had established
an international relief work through the ef-
forts of Henri Dunant, whose feelings over
the lack of care of wounded soldiers at the
battle of Solferino had been so wrought upon 
that he had determined to bring about a
neutral condition for the distressed in times
of war. This resulted in the formation of
the Red Cross Society at Geneva in 1864;
but at that time only ten governments had
joined the society. In 1869 Miss Barton at-
tended the meeting of this society in Berne
and quickly realized the broadness and scope
of the work. While still in Europe the
Franco-Prussian war broke out, and at the
request of Dr. Appia and others of the Red
Cross committee she went to the front and
served as she had done during the Civil
War, only this time under more system and
organization. After the war and during the
terrible Commune at Paris which followed,
Clara Barton distributed relief to the people
of Paris, some of her best work being per-
formed during the seige of that city.
	After this all Europe sang her praises.
The Grand Duchess of Baden made Miss

[Column 3]
Barton chief assistant in the preparation of
the military hospitals. The Emperor of Ger-
many presented her with the Cross of Merit.
The Grand Duke of Baden gave her a
Red Cross brooch, the Gold Cross of Re-
membrance and the colors of Baden. When
Clara Barton returned to her own country
her first move was to try to persuade the
United States to sign the treaty of Geneva.
This treaty guaranteed protection and ex-
emption from capture to those who go on the
battlefield to care for the sick and wounded.
It made neutral all sick or disabled soldiers,
all persons as nurses or attendants, all sup-
plies of medicine or food for their use; all
field and military hospitals with their equip-
ments, all gifts from neutral nations for the
use of the sick and wounded of any army.
She waited nine weary years for this, gen-
erally conceded to be the most liberal of all
nations, to accept this treaty: but finally,
largely through the efforts of Secretary
James G. Blaine, success came—President
Garfield favored it but had not signed the
treaty at the time of his assassination, and
shortly after it was signed by President
Arthur.
	In the meantime, however, a few men and
women had formed an American National
Committee of the Red Cross which was re-
organized under President Garfield, he ap-
pointing Miss Barton president; and at her
suggestion the work of the society was
broadened to include in addition to work
on the battlefield, the relief of suffering in
times of all national calamities. Her work
now grew rapidly. The American society
was founded in 1881 and the same year the
great forest fires broke out in Michigan;
then followed in succession the Mississippi
floods and cyclone, the famine of Texas, the
Charleston earthquake, the Illinois cyclone
in 1888, the epidemic of yellow fever in
Florida, the awful Jownstown disaster in
1889, the Russian famine, the cyclone in
Iowa, the tidal wave that swept the South
Carolina Islands. She carried relief to strick-
en Armenia, and later was found waiting on
and helping the Cuban reconcentrados. Even
at her advanced age when the Spanish
American war broke out it was Clara Bar-
ton who headed the Red Cross nurses on
the Cuban battlefields and afterwards was
seen among the distressed in ocean-swept
Galveston. She resigned from active work
in the Red Cross in 1904 but the soldiers
and the people of this country will always
associate her with that great work and hold
her name in the greatest reverence.
	In 1905 she organized The National
First Aid Association; this is intended to
reach all accidents incident to daily life.
	Miss Barton was always an active suffra-
gist and an intimate friend of Miss An-
thony and her associates. It is rather inter-
esting to note the comments made on her
life in this regard by some of the leading
newspapers. For instance, the Detroit
Journal asks: “Will the life of any future
woman, with all the franchises and liberties
which the future grants, accomplish a work
like that done by this woman of the past


generations?” And the St. Louis Globe
Democrat says: “The fact that she did so
much in ninety years without the ballot can
be used either for or against woman suf-
frage;” but the New York Evening Post is
sure that “Those who object to giving wom-
en the ballot will find Miss Barton and Miss
Nightingale hard to explain away.”
	While her name is linked with that of
Florence Nightingale, the heroine of the
Crimea, it must be conceded that her work
was even greater and more far-reaching.
She was not only a ministering angel to the
sick and distressed but she carried her work
to the “firing line” and was in the front
of the battle. The press generally concedes
that she is our greatest national heroine and
the equal of any soldier or statesman of the
Civil war, “because she was the most per-
fect incarnation of mercy the modern world
has known.”
	While the nation has lost a heroine, the
women have lost a friend. Clara Barton for
many years has been a striking figure at the
assemblies of the National Councils of Wom-
en and suffrage conventions, and was well
known by many of our leading Utah women.
She has been an intimate correspondent and
particular friend of Mrs. Wells, President
of the Relief Society, who was recipient of
both her books, “The Story of the Red
Cross” and “Clara Barton’s Childhood” as
well as her portrait with autograph presen-
tation and sentiment. Their work has been
so similiar and all their activities so general-
ly in sympathy with each other that it is
not strange that these two should have been
drawn together. The women of their gene-
ration are the pioneers in the advanced work
of the women of today. To them all honor
and all praise.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.
	The conference of the General Relief So-
ciety of the Church was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall on Wednesday, April
3, 1912, with President Emmeline B. Wells
presiding.
	The morning session opened at 10 a.m.
Singing, "O Ye Mountains High." Prayer
by Mrs. Rhoda A. Lyman.
	A solo, "Waft Her, Angels, Through the
Skies," was given by John T. Hand.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave hearty
greetings to the large assemblage and ex-
pressed her gratification at seeing so many
out at the opening session of the confer-
ence. Spoke of the seventieth anniversary
of the Relief Society, (on March 17, 1912),
which was appropriately commemorated in
all the Stakes of Zion. Felt that all should
be proud of our organization and the work
it has accomplished in these seventy years.
From such a small beginning the work has
spread all over the world wherever there are
missions, and has proven a great blessing to
the missionaries.
	Mrs. Johannah Jensen of Wasatch Stake
[---]onded to the president's greeting. She
[---]t that her stake was greatly honored in
having the privilege of responding to the
[---]tiful greeting of our beloved president.
She felt that the words of hope and encour-
[--]ement from the president would inspire all
to greater effort in the coming year.

[Column 2]
	The Ladies' quartet sang, "Christ is
Risen From the Dead."
	Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., then addressed
the assembly on the subject of "Genealogy"
and "The Salvation of the Dead." He
urged the necessity of the members of the
Relief Society becoming interested, and of
actually engaging themselves in this great
work of collecting records and of officiating
for the dead. In order to accomplish the
great plan of redemption it is necessary that
those who died without hearing the Gospel
shall have salvation. It is a great privilege
given the Latter-day Saints to attend to this
work. The Lord has even declared that it
is an obligation we owe to our dead kindred.
According to the plan of salvation we are all
kindred, with Father Adam at the head,
who will rule over us as a united whole.
How can we be linked together if we fail
to go to the Temple and perform the neces-
sary ordinances for our fathers and mothers
who did not receive the privilege? If we
fail the links cannot be joined and the chain
cannot be completed.
	Elder Smith spoke of the great work be-
ing done by the genealogical societies in the
Eastern States as well as in England and of
the benefits we may receive from their com-
pilations. The Genealogical Society of
Utah is putting forth every effort to raise
funds to secure the general records of these
organizations. The work of salvation for
the dead was compared with our missionary
work. It was stated that we are spending
hundreds of thousands of dollars for the
preaching of the Gospel which is, of course,
very necessary; but what are we spending
in behalf of the dead?
	The quartet sang, "Who Are These Ar-
rayed in White?"
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was the next
speaker. She continued along the line of
Temple work and reported that a commit-
tee on Temple clothing, of which she was
chairman, had prepared Temple suits for the
use of those who desire to work in the Tem-
ple, and also suits for burial purposes.
	Violin solo, Romania Hyde.
	Closing hymn, "God Moves in a Mys-
terious Way."
	Benediction, Mrs. Rebecca Standring,
President Alpine Stake.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Congregation sang, "Our Mountain
Home So Dear."
	Prayer, Alvira Cox of South Sanpete
Stake.
	Singing, "Come, Come Ye Saints."
	Mrs. Susan Grant of the General Board
bore her testimony to the truthfulness of
the Gospel and the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	She was followed by Margaret Manning
of Bear River Stake, who reported her stake
in good condition. She stated that on
March 17, 1912, all the wards in the Bear
River Stake had uniform programs which
were printed and given to the members as
souvenirs.
	Soprano solo, "Teach Me to Pray," was
given by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, after
which Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert addressed
the assembly. She felt it a great privilege
to work in the Relief Society organization
and bore testimony to the great good done
by this organization. Urged the members

[Column 3]
to be diligent in training their children and
to set the children a good example.
	President Joseph F. Smith then addressed
the congregation on the importance of Relief
Society work, and the duties and responsi-
bilities of its members. He stated that he
has always maintained that the Relief So-
ciety organization is one of the most im-
portant organizations in the Church. It in-
augurated a movement in favor of women
that had never been known before. Its ob-
jects and purposes are among the greatest
that affect the well-being, happiness and
prosperity of the human family. It is a
pleasure to know that the organizations in
both stakes and wards are actively engaged
in the work at hand. This work is like all
the rest of the labors and responsibilities of
women. It has no specific period of begin-
ning and we don't know when it will end.
"Man's work is from sun to sun, but wom-
an's work is never done." The labor, duty,
and responsibility involved in the work are
of the nature that appeals and applies to
the character of womankind. The members
never know when they will be appealed to
for aid or counsel. Their services are al-
ways in demand. Their duties are mul-
titudinous and will continue as long as we
are mortal and are possessed of human
weaknesses and necessities. The sisters are
important help in the work of the Lord.
The Kingdom of God could not prosper and
flourish but for the mothers and daugh-
ters. "Man is not without the woman and
woman is not without the man in the Lord."
It is as necessary for mothers in Zion as
for fathers—certainly there would be no
fathers without mothers. We cannot do
without each other, mother and father,
brother and sister, are equally essential in
building up Zion.
	President Smith referred very feelingly
to his own mother who was a faithful
woman and Latter-day Saint. She was
patient, forbearing and long-suffering, and
she taught her children to love the Gospel
and to be true to the Church; and every one
has been true according to his knowledge.
Mothers should realize the great responsi-
bility resting upon them as mothers. The
influence of the mother during the youth of
her children is greater than that of any one
else. The child grows up into her like-
ness, thoughts, religion, sympathy and de-
sires and a very great deal depends on the
training the mother gives, before the child
is responsible for its own acts. Some par-
ents are fortunate in the training of their
children, and some are unfortunate not-
withstanding the fact that they have done
their best. When parents have done their
duty, taught their children the truth, taught
them to pray and to have faith in God, and
have brought them to manhood and woman-
hood, their responsibility ends; and if the
children (after all this training and example,
by those who have loved them more than
their own lives) should go astray the re-
sponsibility falls on their own shoulders and
the parents will not be blamed for it. It
is only when parents have been derelict in
their duty that the responsibility falls back
on them. What a blessed condition when
the children have kept the faith and have
been obedient to their parents! One of the
duties of the members of this organization
is to help others in the rearing of their
children. All members should be diligent


[Column 1]
teachers and extend their influence to
others. The Relief Society workers should
be prudent, they should look after the essen-
tial part of the work. The purpose of or-
ganization was not to enrich any one; it is
not a money-getting institution for means
to be spent in pleasure. The means is used
for the legitimate purposes for which it is
gathered. It is not for the well, the strong,
the able; it is for the poor and helpless; but
it is better to help those who do not deserve
than to under-help the needy ones. All
who are in need should be helped even if
they are not Latter-day Saints. It is our
duty to help them, to minister to them and to
teach them the principles of the Gospel.
Nobody in need should be neglected.
	President Smith asked the Lord to bless
the sisters in their homes and in their work
abroad. The mothers in Israel should be
as good as they expect their husbands to be,
and the husbands should be as good as they
expect their wives to be.
	Contralto solo, “The Earth is the Lord’s,”
by Dot McMillan Bolto.
	President E. B. Wells felt highly honored
that President Smith took time to favor us
with this splendid address, and she was sure
we would always remember and appreciate
this courtesy shown to us.
	The following presidents of stakes spoke
briefly on the general work of the organiza-
tion and gave reports of conditions in their
respective stakes:
	Sisters Rebecca Standring of Alpine
stake; Minerva Knowlton of Davis; Sarah
Stohl of Boxelder, and Leonora T. Har-
rington of Granite.
	Duet, “God Be With You Till We Meet
Again,” by Lizzie Thomas Edward and Dot
McMillan Bolto.
	Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Priscilla P. Jennings.
		SECOND DAY.
	MORNING SESSION, 10 A. M.
	April 4, 1912. After singing, “Re-
deemer of Israel,” opening prayer was of-
fered by Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
Piano duet, from Hayden’s second sym-
phony, given by Miss Edna Coray and Mrs.
Orpha R. Walker.
	Congregation sang, “Softly Beams the
Sacred Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a brief

[Column 2]
address in which she expressed her appre-
ciation of the tributes paid her on her re-
cent birthday anniversary, for which she ten-
dered heartfelt thanks. She prayed that
the Lord would give her a sense of grati-
tude and charity that she might give out all
that is best in her to the sisters of this great
organization.
	Mrs. Hannah M. Crosby, president of
Panguitch stake, gave a favorable report of
the Relief Society in that stake. Spoke of
the fine attendance at their regular meetings
and the great interest manifested in the
work.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates of the General
Board delivered an address on “Life,” deal-
ing with the subject from the standpoint
of a Latter-day Saint. Our life before we
came here is forgotten but it was as tangi-
ble as it is today. We understood and
longed for more light and when it was
given us we came here as little children and
had forgotten everything. “My heart
swells with gratitude that I was permitted
to come here under the covenant of the
Priesthood and that I value life as it should
be valued.” The Latter-day Saints have
been given light and truth. No one else
believes that we had an individual con-
sciousness before we came here. The Chris-
tian and heathen world believe that there
was a great spirit and that we are tiny
sparks from this spirit. We, each of us,
come here with individual life—we come, it
is true, in the darkness and gloom, we go
through childish sorrow, maturity and
motherhood, but life grows deeper and rich-
er with all these experiences. Life brings
great responsibility with it—responsibility,
pain, suffering and worry. Many people
and several sects believe that we should
steel ourselves against pain and worry; but
pain and worry are part of our lives and
through them we are developed and purified.
When we see women like our president who
have passed through sorrow and affliction
and have remained true and faithful to the
end we should feel that we are willing to
go through the same experiences if we can
reach the point they have reached.
	Brother Walter Wallace sang a solo,
“Come Holy Spirit,” after which reports
were given by Mary Ollerton of Parowan
stake and Jennie Potter of Carbon stake.
	Two musical numbers were then given on
the violin by Prof. Willard Weihe, accom-
panied by Prof. J. J. McClellan. Mr.
Weihe played “Russian Airs” and “The
Cradle Song,” which he also played before
President Taft at the White House during
the eastern tour of the tabernacle choir. A
rising vote of thanks was given the
musicians.
	Sister Marilla Daniels of Provo was
called upon to give reminiscences of the
Prophet Joseph Smith with whom she was
personally acquainted. She told of his
many fine qualities and of his wonderful
perseverance and faith. She related many
incidents in which the Prophet figured and
stated that she was one of those who saw
him at his home after his martyrdom. This
sad death was a thing she could not be
reconciled to for years. She heard Joseph
Smith prophesy that the Saints would be
driven to the Rocky Mountains and would
there build up a great commonwealth. Bore
a strong testimony to the divinity of the
mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	The congregation sang, “How Firm a

[Column 3]
Foundation,” and the session closed with
prayer by Sister Romania B. Penrose.
	AFTERNOON SESSION, 2 P. M.
	Congregation, “Come Let Us Anew.”
Prayer, Sister Alice M. Horne. Singing,
“Praise to the Man.”
	President Wells stated that recently the
Church had had the opportunity of prepar-
ing a brief history of the Church for the
Appleton Company’s Encyclopoedia, and
that the Relief Society was given the priv-
ilege of furnishing a sketch of 3,000 words
on the history of our organization during the
seventy years of its existence; also 500
words each on the biographies of the five
presidents of our organization. The sketch
and the biographies had been prepared un-
der the direction of President Wells, ap-
proved by the First Presidency and sent
on for publication.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde, who has recently
been appointed a missionary on the General
Board, briefly addressed the assembly. She
felt delighted to be numbered with those
who were associated in a work of charity
and love; in fact, she felt that this was the
most joyful moment of her life and ex-
pressed her great desire to do all in her
power to assist in the work of the Relief
Society.
	A soprano solo, “O, Loving Father,” was
then given by Lizzie Thomas Edward.
The remainder of the time was turned over
for testimony bearing and the following
sisters bore testimonies: Sister Emily S.
Richards, Sister Head from Preston, Sister
Ellsworth, Sister Brown of Salt Lake, Sis-
ter Chas. D. Evans, Sister Romania B. Pen-
rose and others.
	A trio, “God Be Merciful,” was sung by
Lizzie Thomas Edward, Evan Arthur and
Ralph Siddoway.
	Elder James E. Talmage spoke of the
wonderful work accomplished by the Relief
Society. No organization in the Church
receives more admiration from the world
than this. The name is very suggestive
and well fitted for a society which so un-
selfishly gives aid and relief to all who apply
for it. He felt that the Lord smiles on this
work and urged the sisters to continue to
be diligent workers.
	After singing by a mixed quartet, “Prov-
idence is Over All,” meeting adjourned until
October, 1912.
	Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Rebecca N. Nibley.
		AMY BROWN LYMAN,
				Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MARY A. FREEZE.
Our friend! our comrade since our early youth,
Our precious sister in the Cause of Truth;
The one beloved in sacred, tender bond
Hath left us here, hath passed to the beyond.
It seems but yesterday we clasped her hand,
So late we listened to her cheering voice;
'Tis hard for human hearts to understand
And even in God's providence rejoice.
Yet could we know to what immortal bliss
Our loved ones pass when called from world
	like this,
Our tears would cease to flow, we'd feel a
	peace supreme,
We'd know God's promises were not a fleeting
	dream—
That Death is Life! the passing a transition
From pain to peace, from woe to an eternal joy
Where progress never has remission,
The Gold of life is found without alloy.
—E. R. Shipp.


When women cannot vote the ship of state
is like the steamship "Titanic," with only
half enough life boats.—Woman's Journal.
	The Chicago Record Herald announces
that one whole page of the Sunday edition
will hereafter be devoted to equal suffrage.
Many express their appreciation.
	Julia C. Lathrop, of Chicago, an asso-
ciate of Jane Addams in the work at Hull
House, a member of the Illinois board of
charity and a graduate and trustee of Vas-
sar College, has been appointed by Presi-
dent Taft as chief of the new children's
bureau in the department of commerce and
labor. Miss Lathrop is the first woman to
be made a bureau chief under the govern-
ment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, U[-]ah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH - APRIL 1912


THE TITANIC. 
	Of all the disasters of the sea of which 
we have record, none is so appalling as the 
one that occurred on the night of April 14, 
when the great ocean liner “Titanic” struck
a huge iceberg off the banks of Newfound-
land and in less than three hours had been 
swallowed up by the ocean with a vast cargo 
of human freight, more than fifteen hundred 
souls going down into the icy waters with 
the mighty ship. The details of this terrible 
disaster, one of the worst in the world’s
history, are too terrible even to contem-
plate—one stands aghast at its awfulness. 
Calamities like these impress one anew with 
the utter insignificance of man and man’s
power in any measuring of strength with 
the angry forces of nature. 
	A great vessel, supposed to be unsink-
able, equipped with all the latest and most
modern appliances, every luxury and con-
venience that human skill could devise, and 
yet on its very first voyage doomed 
to the depths of the sea! In such a 
tragedy one truly realizes that God 
is no respecter of persons and in His 
sight all men are equal. The gallant chiv-
alry and dignity of the men and the heroism 
of the women on board that ill-fated vessel 
will long be told in story and in song.
How the former parted with their loved ones 
and then stepped back, loading other women 
and children into the life boats and then 
calmly awaited their destiny—to be hurled 
into the sea, perchance if God so willed to 
reach a piece of wreckage and be saved by 
a passing vessel, or to be buried in the 
waves to await that day when the sea will 
be called upon to give up its dead. The 
civilized world is shocked beyond words 
and the hearts of the people are filled with 
a desire to do some good for those who 
having been saved find themselves without 
means and bereft of loved ones. The Red 
Cross Society of America can surely now
find plenty of work relieving these un-
fortunates and the people have already 
shown how gladly they will help by their 
liberal donation of means. 
	So sudden was the impact of the 
ice and so complete the wreck that 
had it not been for that most mar-
vellous of all recent inventions, wireless
telegraphy, it is doubtful if a single soul
would be alive to tell the story. But by 
this means the ship’s distress was signalled


many miles and the nearest ship, the “Car-
pathia,” rescued those found on life boats 
and rafts in the early morning, though the 
great ship and most of her passengers had 
gone down into a watery grave long hours 
before. The rescued ones say just as the 
lights went out they heard the band playing
“Nearer, My God, to Thee”—a crowning
touch of pathetic resignation that can hardly 
be thought of without tears!


[Column 1]
	OUR TEMPLE OF THE DRAMA.
	A notable event in the history of Salt
Lake City occurred March 7 when the old
historic playhouse, the Salt Lake Theater,
celebrated its fiftieth anniversary. The event
brought to mind a flood of recollections, not
only to those few who now remain who were
present at the dedication and the first per-
formance, but to many of the next genera-
tion who, from early childhood, had been
frequent attendants among the audiences,
and sometimes had swelled the number of
supernumeraries in the fire scene in “The
Streets of New York,” or the Witches’
chorus in “Macbeth.” Of the few remain-
ing who took part on the first night, there
were only Hiram B. Clawson, Phillip Mar-
getts, Margaret Romney nee Thomas, and
Prof. Charles J. Thomas. It was with keen
regret the audience marked the absence of
David McKenzie, probably Utah’s most
gifted actor, whose sudden illness prevented
his being there and whose death occurred
a few days later. 
	As I sat in the audience with my mother,
I was not so much interested in the opera,
“Robin Hood,” being presented in a most
charming manner by the Salt Lake Opera
company, as in the audience itself; and when
all those present who attended the first per-
formance were asked to rise, my eyes were
dimmed with tears noting the changed faces,
the whitened hair, the furrowed brow, the
halting step. From that hour the opera did
not interest me; I forgot it and with closed
eyes, I looked back into the old Theater
with its long cushioned seats, its heavy
green curtain and its row of coal oil lamps
for footlights. We went in family groups
in those days, and a large part of the east
side was reserved for President Young’s
family, while my father’s seat was on the
west side of the railing which ran down
the center, No. 69. I remember that Presi-
dent Kimball’s was just in front, No. 68, and
I used as a little child to wonder if all the
Kimball family were tall dark boys because I
noted many times the seat had only men
folks, while my father’s just behind was
nearly filled with girls. The most striking
figure in all the audience was, of course,
President Young, whose keen enjoyment of
the play seemed always to enhance the in-
terest for others. Then there was always
my own father, the greatest lover of the
theater I ever knew. Among the attaches
none was more faithful than Brother Toms,
the doorkeeper, and after the building had
been renovated and refurnished, it seemed
as though it was incomplete without that
faithful monitor to receive our tickets and
afterwards keep order among the unruly
children who found their way inside.
	As in Macbeth’s dream, long lines of
personages pass before my gaze: Paunce-
fort; George Waldron in “Nick of the

[Column 2]
Woods;” George Teasdale as Hecate in
“Macbeth;” Julia Dean, Nellie Colebrook,
Asenath Adams, Susie Spencer, the bright
soubrette, “Toddy” Clive, the danseuse,
John C. Graham, Henry Maiben, and so on,
many familiar figures portraying before our
eyes tragedy, drama and comedy, and what
an education it was! People scarcely read
Shakespeare now, and yet in those old
theater days the stock companies regaled us
with the plays of Sheridan and Shakespeare
and other immortals until we children knew
them ourselves by heart. Perhaps one of the
most popular plays to the childish mind
was the “Octoroon” and certainly no one
who witnessed that play will ever forget
the splendid McCloskey of David McKen-
zie;” the Indian of oJhn T. Caine; the
Salem Scudder of John S. Lindsay, or the
post boy of Dellie Clawson.
	How the scenes shift, and now on the
stage appear Couldock and his frail daugh-
ter, who came here at last to die and found
a resting place on the eastern hillside.
Then the beautiful Annie Lockhart as
Parthenia, in “Ingomar,” and “Lady’s
Audley’s Secret,” and when she also died
while filling an engagement here it seemed
to me that one of the brightest stars had left
us. Later when “Jimmy” Harris was man-
ager, and we had a painted curtain and
the city boasted a gas plant, there came en-
tertainment in lighter vein and the little
girl’s eyes were dazzled and her brain be-
wildered by the transformation scenes of
“The Nymph of the Lurleiburg” and the
wondrous colors of the “Fairy Fountain”—
even in this day with all the wonderful
color effects produced by electricity the
colors of that fountain seem to me incom-
parably beautiful.
	But, goodness, the opera is over, the as-
bestos curtain has fallen and the dispers-
ing audience calls me back from my dreams.
As I rise in my seat I see the familiar form
of Hiram Clawson just passing out of his
seat a short distance before me, the last time
I ever looked upon him, for before a month
had passed he, too, had gone to join the
innumerable hosts on the other side.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


SUGGESTIONS FOR THE RELIEF
			SOCIETY.
	A short time before the recent conference
of the Relief Society, the General Board
discussed and agreed upon the propriety
of presenting some suggestions as to lines
of endeavor in stake and ward societies
outside of their regular routine work. A
committee of the board was appointed to
formulate such suggestions as might be
deemed timely and appropriate, and in due
time that committee made its report. This
report was aproved by the General Board
and later by the conference in the business
meeting; and is now given out in the sin-
cere hope that its suggestions will be found
interesting and helpful. It is as follows:

			PREAMBLE.
	Knowing that it is for a great and wise
purpose that we are permitted to live in this
probation, having assurance of a Divine
plan for our development, believing that
each individual must elevate himself by his
own faith and study and good works, but
having also evidence that the united effort


[Column 1]
of a multitude of individuals has often been
of great avail, in stimulating human prog-
ress by strengthening the cause of Truth
and Righteousness and in discouraging
ignorance and the march of Evil;
	We, therefore, the officers of the National
Woman’s Relief Society assembled, repre-
senting and acting in the name of 40,000
women, organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith for the relief of the distressed, the
amelioration of the oppressed, in the interest
of education, the best citizenship, and for
true charity; do hereinafter bring forward
ten suggestions, upon which our united
strength would be a mighty power for good
upon questions the solution of which seem
at this time to be especially expedient and
essential, inasmuch as they are calculated
to have a bearing upon the promotion of
public health, of civic beauty, of maintaining
the highest standard of purity in the home,
of greater faith, of the use of individual
gifts, a broader intelligence, and a more
deeply rooted spiritual growth, and will
thereby create opportunities for higher liv-
ing.

			LECTURES. 
	(1) We therefore suggest that each Relief
Society President of Stake, (aside from the
lectures given by missionaries from the Gen-
eral Board), shall provide for at least one
lecture by local talent on research which
shall pertain to either our religion, art,
invention, discovery, history, exploration or
travel, and also one lecture or a series of
lectures, by local talent, on a practical sub-
ject that is, or could be made to be, intensely
vital to the well-being of the people of that
Stake. We would suggest such subjects as
public health, scientific methods applied
to poultry raising, how to make the farm
pay, use and utility applied to house-
building and house furnishing, demonstra-
tions in cooking, sericulture, the best
adapted and most improved scions of fruit
for the locality in which they are to be
grown, methods by which large and small
weedy tracts, unused land, may be utilized,
the culture of the English walnut and al-
mond in our mountain climate, and the ne-
cessity of a vegetable garden. These lec-
tures may be given at the regular or special
Relief Society meetings in the Stake or
Ward.

			BALLOT.
	(2) We believe that a proper apprecia-
tion of the privilege of the ballot and its
sacred responsibility should be shown by ac-
tive use of the franchise in the interest of
better government, clean politics, the elimi-
nation of temptations and a more practical
education, which latter should be secured
by leaving out impractical routine lessons
and replacing the same by work to develop
individual gifts, for in this change we be-
lieve would be found the solution of the
large number of pupils now classed as
failures and would have a salutary effect
upon reform work that present conditions
make necessary. Why not direct the in-
terest and energy of the child who cannot
be made to fit the mould which in systems
of education all pupils are expected to fill,
toward something which he can do, some-
thing within his scope and power and some-
thing in the doing of which he will delight?

[Column 2]
Do we realize that these failures are many
of them children with gifts and original
powers?

		FOREIGN LANGUAGES.
	(3) We urge the teaching of a foreign
language in the school grades by at least
the conversational method. Language is
easily acquired by the very young child. At
high school age, when the boys and girls
begin with a foreign language, they are not
so receptive in this particular, and language
has become more difficult to master. Years
of study in high school and university
might be avoided if children could converse
at home or in school, or both, in foreign lan-
guages. We deprecate the fact that foreign
born parents do not always teach their chil-
dren the language of their fathers. A child
cannot be better equipped for an education
than to be started out with two, to say
nothing of three, speaking languages.

DESECRATION OF THE SABBATH.
	(4) We fear for the consequences of
and are shocked at the desecration of the
Sabbath day. How dreadful to think even
of a Sunday “vaudeville” and a Sunday ex-
cursion!
	We deplore the mad rage for public
amusement and advocate a more intellectual
line of recreation and enjoyment, something
that will tend to develop an attitude toward
special study, such as dramatic art, elocu-
tion, music both instrumental and vocal,
choral work, graceful dancing and love of
nature.  

		PUBLIC HEALTH.
	(5) The Prophet Joseph himself urged
upon this people to use every means in their
power to promote health and the prolonga-
tion of human life. We urge a closer study
of vital questions relative to home life and
health such as (a) nourishing foods; (b)
danger and results of the drug habit; (c)
abstinence from stimulating food and drink;
(d) proper dress; (e) need for fresh air;
(f) the habit of walking and correct car-
riage and their influence upon our physical
well-being; (g) proper screening to protect
from flies and other insects; (h) methods
by which the housefly, carrier of the typhoid
and other diseases, may be eliminated from
the usual breeding places; and (i) value
of out of door sports.

	COMPETENCE AND THRIFT.
 	(6) Every individual should be an asset
to the community in which he resides and it
is our duty to do all that is possible toward
teaching the able-bodied who are not “mak-
ing good” how to become at least self-sup-
porting. Teach that every soul should per-
form a just portion of labor. Let us en-
courage the habit of depositing a little in a
savings bank. If all would learn and prac-
tice saving, the state would be without
paupers. Discourage greed, graft, slothful-
ness, wastefulness and extravagance.. En-
courage industry and thrift and the habit of
tithing. Remember what President John
Henry Smith said to us last Conference:
“An idler, man or woman, is a menace to the
community in which he or she resides.”

[Column 3]
		TREE PLANTING.
	(7) The poet wrote, “He who plants a
tree lives forever.” We would impress upon
you the necessity for the planting of trees,
for grove making and for forest building.
Plant the Lombardy poplar for fuel, six
trees, after a few years growth, furnish a
home with wood. The locust is even better
for fence posts than cedar. There are so
many unused spots, whole lots and corners,
upon which groves of locusts could be raised
for fencing. The English walnut and al-
mond for nut growing may now become a 
reality. The walnut furnishes a beautiful
material for cabinet work. Any and all
hardwood trees, the maple, ash, oak, mahog-
any and walnut are good to plant, for they
rapidly enhance the value of land; in fact,
every year’s growth adds greatly to its
money value. The hardwood varieties are
ideal for shade and what is more charming
than the cherry and plum and apple in blos-
som? Then the fruit trees—remember we
have set a high standard here and there can
be no turning back. We must study the best
varieties adapted to the localities in which
they shall be planted.

		NEEDLE WORK AND ART.
	(8) We believe in the work of the hand,
we believe in the work of the machine, we
believe in the work of the brain, but we
recognize that when the hand and brain
unite and the hand lovingly does the bidding
of the brain then labor is exalted into art
and the laborer becomes greater than his
hire. The people of these mountain states
have gifts, let us advise that they use them.
Let there be a renewal, a revival, of all hand- 
work, hand-sewing, and embroidery, knit-
ting, designing, crocheting, lace making—
the pillow lace being not forgotten—rag car-
pet, and rag rugs in washable lengths for
bath rooms, and covers for trunks and
tables; the spinning and weaving, smaller
hat making, the designing and making of
dresses, painting and design for house
decoration and for illustration. Let us not
forget that sericulture is our industry and
should be restored. The special prize of-
fered for the best half-acre of potatoes
raised by a boy should help us to interest
our sons in scientific farming. Teach the
girls how to make their own clothing.

		HOME MANUFACTURE.
	(9) We pledge our support to home
manufacture.
	(10) Above all we should surround our-
selves and our families with an atmosphere
of faith, integrity and honesty, and by all
means in our power preserve the health and
virtue and faith of our children. 
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE,
						Chairman.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PENROSE,
	ELIZABETH CAINE CRIMSON,
	EDNA MAY DAVIS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A friend whom you have been gaining
during your whole life you ought not to be
displeased with in a moment. A stone is
many years becoming a ruby; take care that
you do not destroy it in an instant against
another stone.—Saadi.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REMINISCENCES OF MRS. A. AGATHA
			PRATT.
	I do not think it necessary to speak at
this time of the public life of my husband,
the late Apostle Parley P. Pratt, as that is a
matter of history known to his descendants
and the readers of his life and his works.
	As an orator, author, poet, statesman, and
able expounder of the Gospel and its prin-
ciples, which he so dearly loved, he will ever
live in the memory of those who have heard
him, and will become more precious as the
years roll on.
	For the sake of his descendants and in
justice to his beloved and venerated mem-
ory, I wish to speak of his private life; as a
husband, father, and friend. He was a
gentleman, born so. He had an innate reve-
rence and respect for woman as the mother
of the souls of men. He loved his wives,
not only as the beloved of his bosom, but
as the mothers of his children, whom he
loved very dearly. I heard a lady ask him,
“Brother Pratt, when did you first fall in
love?” He replied, “When I was a babe
in my mother’s arms, and looked up into
her tender loving eyes, I fell in love, and
have been in love ever since.” 
	Amid all our poverty, toil and care and
the difficulties and perplexities and inex-
periences, he would sometimes have occa-
sion to reprove or admonish; he would do
it in a manner to touch the heart—make a
lasting impression, but never leave a hu-
miliating sting.
	His wives always knew that he respected
them and cared for their feelings. As a
father, he was kind and gentle and hailed
each new-comer with as much pleasure and
delight as if it were the only one. One of
the greatest pleasures of his life was to
gather them round his knees, holding as
many as he could, and have them sing their
sweet childish songs, often trying to join
in with them, as he dearly loved music and
singing, and always, when possible, he
would have his family gather together for
family worship; we would always sing a
suitable hymn, then kneel down and dedi-
cate his family, himself and all he had, to
the Lord.
	As a friend, he was true, sincere and very
hospitable. In times of famine and scarci-
ty when sometimes we would not know
where the next meal was coming from, he
would say, “If any one comes in hungry,
ask them to sit up and eat.”
	His confidence in God was unbounded,
and he would go to Him and ask Him for
what he needed, as a child would go to its
father, with the same childlike simplicity.
I have seen his prayers answered almost
before he had finished his supplication. He
was very sociable, in those early days we
used to visit a good deal, we seemed to have
more time then than we have now. Two 
or three of us would go with him to some
friend’s house, where, in the course of con-
versation, he would be led to speak upon
some interesting subject that would instruct
and entertain all, and make the time pass
very profitably and pleasantly, and it still
remains as a happy memory to the few of
those dear old friends who still survive.
	Mr. Pratt was the father of thirty chil-
dren, fifteen sons and fifteen daughters,
twenty-three of whom survived him.
	I do not know how many descendants
there are; I have myself over a hundred.
	There were five brothers:—Anson, Wil-

[Column 2]
liam, Parley, Orson and Nelson; the last 
named never received the Gospel, so never
came to Utah. When my husband was on
his last mission, he visited him and he told
me in one of his letters of his pleasant visit
with him and his family, and that two of
his daughters were very sweet singers. I
find by referring to his letter that he stayed
with them about a week, and said they were
quite favorable to the Gospel. At the time
of his visit they were living in Ohio.
	I now wish to speak of his last mission.
Many have labored under the impression
that he was not called, but sought to go.
There never was a greater mistake. In the
spring of ’56 he had severe illness brought
on by over-doing mentally and physically,
and suffered more or less from the effects of
it through the summer. He came into my
house one day about the middle of August,
and said to me, “Agatha, I have bad news
for you.” I was just recovering from my
confinement, our youngest child, now Mrs.
F. C. Woods, having been born on the 8th
day of August. His words and manner sent
a strange thrill through me. I said, “What is
it?” He replied, “I am called to go on a
mission.” I said, “Why do you call it bad
news? You have been on missions be-
fore.” He said, “Because I feel as if I shall
never come back.” I said, “Why do you feel
like that; you’ve been delivered from mob
violence and from prison and been pre-
served till now—what do you think can
happen to you?” He replied, “I do not
know; perhaps the Indians may kill me or
some accident may happen.” He said, “I
asked President Young what I was to do
and why he sent me as there were already
three of the Twelve in the States.” Elder
John Taylor was publishing “The Mormon”
in New York, Erastus Snow “The Lumi-
ary” in St. Louis, and Brother George A.
Smith was visiting the different branches
of the Church in the East. He said, “Bro-
ther Parley, you need a rest, and a change;
you can assist Brothers Taylor and Snow
and visit the Saints and instruct them by
their firesides, and do much good in many
ways.”
	He went busily to work preparing for his
mission. In a few days he came in and said,
“I have been to the President’s office and
been set apart for my mission. The Presi-
dency were Brigham Young, Heber C. Kim-
ball, and Jedediah Grant, and they placed
their hands upon my head, President Young
being mouth. He confirmed all former
blessings and ordinations heretofore given,
and promised many blessings for the future.
After he was through President Grant said,
‘Brother Parley, I would give a good deal
for one clause in your blessing?’ ‘What
was that, Brother Grant?’ He said, ‘Your
children shall be preserved unto you.’” He
seemed to realize it in its fullest sense.
	He felt more cheerful after he had re-
ceived his blessing, and went on with his
preparations for his journey. He attended
fast meeting the first Thursday in Septem-
ber, confirmed several of his children
whom he had baptized; named and blessed
the youngest and bore a faithful testimony.
	He started for his mission about the
14th, and arrived in the States in No-
vember. He wrote home to us frequent-
ly, and told us of his labors. In one of
his letters he spoke of the great darkness
and utter indifference in the minds of the
people regarding the Gospel, and made the

[Column 3]
remark that if it were not for the sake of
the Gospel and his family, he could change
worlds, with joy inexpressible.
	When the news of his death reached Salt
Lake City, the Presidency were spending
the holiday, July 24th, in Big Cottonwood
Canyon. As soon as they reached home,
they came to see us, and mingle their grief
and sorrow with ours.
	President Young said, referring to his
death: “Nothing has happened so hard to
reconcile my mind to, since the death of
Joseph; Brother Parley has done more good
on his short mission than many Elders will
do in their whole lives.”
	Mr. Pratt was one of the busiest and
hardest working men I ever knew. When
we were crossing the Plains, he drove the
largest wagon we had, with three yoke of
cattle; he would walk along side of them,
and the first thing you knew you would see
him three or four rods ahead. The slow
walk of the team could not keep pace with
his active mind. Often he would recollect,
turn back to his team, see that all was all
right, hurry them up, and do the same thing
again. When it came near camping time,
he would go ahead and look up a good place
for camping. His mind was ever on the
alert for the benefit of the company. When
we arrived here on the 28th of September,
we were tired and worn out, for the last
part of the journey was very hard on all.
	With little or no rest, he went to work
hunting up the resources of the country,
making roads to the canyons; getting out
logs for building houses; getting fire wood
and so on.
	He built several good comfortable log
rooms, a stable, put in a number of acres
of wheat; in fact, kept busy all the time.
He built four adobe houses, two of them
a story and a half, besides outbuildings;
made a road through Parley’s canyon; at-
tended faithfully to every ecclesiastical duty.
He went on two missions to California, in-
cluding Chile, South America, wrote and
published “The Key to Theology,” wrote
and compiled his Autobiography, besides
many other effusions in prose and verse.
	After the foregoing had been read to one
of my daughters, she said, “Why, mother,
you have not mentioned yourself.” I re-
plied, “No, I did not think of myself. I
was writing about your father.” She said,
“I think you ought to tell about being in
the canyon with father.”
	Well, he commenced his work on the
road in the summer of ’49. There were
a great many men in the east that had the
gold fever so bad that they left no stone
unturned to procure an outfit to get to the
gold mines of California, which had been
discovered by the Mormon Battalion boys.
	Many of them arrived in Salt Lake, utter-
ly worn out, and teams and wagons in bad
condition. They were obliged to stay a
while to get lighter wagons, exchange their
worn out horses (some were quite valuable)
for fresh ones. Some of them stayed over
to make a little means wherewith to prose-
cute their journey. Later on, these were
the men my husband hired to help make the
road through Parley’s Canyon. I went with
him to cook for them. Each man had his
own tin plate, cup, knife, fork, and spoon.
The food consisted mostly of bread baked
in bake kettle, meat, coffee and a little but-
ter. We had a small tent and a wagon to
sleep in. The men had a large tent to bunk


in and a long rough table to eat on. These
were at a distance from our quarters. I
would cook the food, and Mr. Pratt and
Parley, his son, would take it to them. We
would make camp in a shady place near the
creek. We would stay there till about two
miles of road was made, then move camp
and make another mile or two, and so on
through Parley’s Park to the Weber River,
where the road was completed, which was
some time in November. When we reached
the head of the canyon coming home, I said,
“Now let me get out and walk over the bad
places.” He said, “No, I want to be able
to say that a woman and baby came down
in safety.” (I forgot to say I had a babe
a year and a half old.) “I promise you no
harm shall happen to either of you.” I did
as he wished, and he drove the two yoke
of cattle with large wagons attached, to
the mouth of the canyon and home in per-
fect safety.
	I saw no wild beasts while there, but
often heard the wolves howl at night, and
would see their tracks. One day when
the men were busy chopping down trees
about a mile above the camp, a large griz-
zly bear came down the side of the canyon
towards the choppers. Each man grabbed
his axe, and climbed the nearest tree in a
lively manner. Mr. Bruin sniffed leisurely
around, looked at the men, then walked up
the other side over the top, and was seen
no more.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF 
		MARY A. FREEZE.
	Who departed this life January 21st,
1912, at Salt Lake City, Utah.
	In the death of our beloved friend and
fellow-member, we, the members of the
Utah Woman’s Press Club, feel to express
our sincere sympathy to the family of Sister
Freeze, in the loss they have sustained.
	To the Utah Woman’s Press Club she
was a source of joy and pleasure. Her
chair, now vacant, will bring sorrow to us,
reminding us that she will be with us no
more with her sweet smile and pleasing
presence. Yet we know the Divine Father
called her to adorn a holier place in His
eternal presence, and we bow to that de-
cree, but the memory of Mary Freeze shall
never die.

	She cast upon the waters daily bread,
	Shared her blessings freely everywhere;
	They now are multiplied upon her head,
	Eternal blessings now she’ll ever share.

	From her life we may learn the lessons
of truth and virtue. Life’s stream is fed by
many tributaries; but from the earliest pe-
riod of her life, only those which emanated
from pure sources had entrance. To those
who merely enter life’s stream, does not be-
long the honor of victory, but to those who
contend against its currents and win, be-
long all honor, all joy, all victory. This was
the portion of our sister, Mary Freeze. So
successfully did she contend that all of life’s
virtues finally gained entrance within her,
forming a fellowship, in which one kept the
others continually pulsating. A complete dif-
fusion of truth resulted, which obliterated
all dark channels from her character, mak-
ing her Truth’s conservative disciple. Thus
her life was replete in good works, that
must live though she has left us; they built

[Column 2]
their own monument not only in our hearts,
but in tangible results of her labors.
	May her family follow the course she set,
and may the members of the Utah Woman’s
Press Club live as truly.

We need not weep for her, my friends,
	She’s happier there than we can know;
The life like hers that upward tends,
	Knows naught of death—it hurries so.

It merely comes to cut the thread
	Of life, from this oft-changing earth;
To set it free from burdens here,
	That it might rise to higher birth.

The pure sweet face is smiling still,
	Her peaceful influence still lives there,
Those hands are not held by death’s chill,
	But kindred greetings still they share.

Behold the handmaid of the Lord!
	Could grander name in life be given?
We honor it with sweet accord,
	’Tis fit for noble guests of heaven.

Dear Mary lives with loved ones still,
	Her work up there in higher grade,
Promotion means—new hearts to fill
	With love and truth that ne’er shall fade.

So let us keep ourselves as just,
	By saying as she said always,
My heart is fixed, in God I trust, 
	His handmaid ever sings his praise.

If one deliberate wish expressed
	From any one of us tonight,
Could call her back again to earth 
	From where her spirit winged its flight,

Think you that she would want to come
	From that far brighter happier sphere?
No! call her not to earth again,
	She’s happier there than here.
					V. C. McCune.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
LIBERTY STAKE OFFICERS’ MEETING.
	At the Liberty Stake Relief Society meet-
ing held in the Ninth Ward meeting house
on Feb. 29th, President Annie S. Musser
presiding, a delightful afternoon was spent
in listening to sketches of the lives of Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells and Eliza R. Snow.
The former was given by Sister Sarah
Swift, and hymns that Sister Wells had
composed were read by Sister Emma Car-
ter. Sister Ida B. Spiers gave a sketch
of the life of Sister Snow followed by
Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley who recited
a poem composed by Sister Snow. Sister
Eva James sang, “O My Father.” All the
hymns sung were composed by Sisters Wells
and Snow.
			LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.

		ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Re-
lief Societies of the St. Joseph Stake con-
vened at the Layton meeting-house, March
10th, 1912. The morning session was of a
business character, relating to our statis-
tical and financial affairs. Reports from the
different wards showed an increase of at-
tendance and interest since the New Year
began. The lessons from the Primer of
Sanitation are welcomed among the dif-
ferent societies, and a great deal of enthu-
siasm exhibited. Other subjects were taken
up and discussed, viz.: The storing of grain
and the advisability of building a steel ele-
vator; the different lessons and how to get

[Column 2]
the best results from their study; the duty
of mothers; the influence our organizations
should have, not only at home for good,
but abroad as well; temple work and the
necessity of teaching our sons and daugh-
ters that it is best to begin life aright by
being married in the temple, etc. Presi-
dent Elizabeth W. Layton presided at this
meeting. A number of the brethren were
present and gave valuable assistance. Jo-
sephine Kimball gave a short talk, also
Sister Mary Ransome of the Union Stake.
	After benediction by Bishop Tyler, meet-
ing adjourned till 2 p. m.
	The time of the afternoon meeting was
given over to the Relief Society, after the
administration of the Sacrament by the
ward authorities. The presidency of the
stake, and many prominent men were pres-
ent. First Counselor Selena Phillips pre-
sided. The Academy band, led by Prof.
Claydon, discoursed several beautiful selec-
tions. Prof. E. M. W. Jones assisted with
the singing, and Mrs. Fred. Jacobson ren-
dered a sacred solo. In her opening re-
marks, President E. W. Layton welcomed
all the sisters, urged that we be faithful in
our duties and to the Priesthood of God.
Touched upon the subject of tithing, child-
culture, keeping holy the Sabbath day, and
exhorted all to faithfulness and diligence.
A lesson talk on disease germs and the pre-
vention of diseases was given in an inter-
esting manner by Sister Henrietta Nash.
Sister Ransome bore a faithful testimony,
and gave words of love and encourage-
ment. Sister Alice K. Beebe, president of
the Layton Ward Relief Society, who is
soon to make her home in a different stake,
said how much the sisters had become en-
deared to her heart; that she loved to work
with them for they were a noble band, and
no matter where her lot was cast, she would
always look back with pleasure on her work
in the Relief Society in this part of the
Lord’s vineyard. She bore her testimony.
Second Counselor Frances W. Kimball gave
an eulogistic talk on the life of our beloved
“Aunt Em,” which was followed by one
of her beautiful poems, read with much
feeling by Sister Ella Birdno. President
Nash quoted, “Be ye perfect, even as our
Father is heaven is perfect,” and made a
splendid and encouraging talk relative to
the duties of the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety. He also emphasized what had been
said in regard to sanitation, showing in
many instances where knowledge of the
causes of disease was to have power over
them. Invoked heaven’s blessings upon the
Relief Society organizations.
	Conference was adjourned for six
months. The benediction was pronounced
by President Charles M. Layton.
		JOSEPHINE C. KIMBALL,
						Secretary.


IMPROVE HELL’S GATE.
MISS MARY JOHNSTON COMMENTS HUMOR-
	OUSLY ON TERTULLIAN’S DESCRIPTION OF
		WOMAN AS “THE GATE OF HELL.”
	Under the enigmatic title, “Wanted, An
Architect,” Miss Mary Johnston’s name was
on the program to give an address at the re-
cent National Suffrage Convention in Louis-
ville, Ky. It was awaited with great in-
terest. She spoke as follows:


[Column 1]
	“Woman,” says St. Thomas Aquinas,
“Woman is a rapidly growing weed, an im-
perfect being! Her body attains maturity
more rapidly than man’s only because it is
of less value, and Nature is engaged less in
her making. Women are born to be eter-
nally maintained under the yoke of their
lords and masters, who are endowed by Na-
ture with superiority in every respect, and
therefore destined to rule.”
	“Woman,” thunders Tertullian, “Woman!
you ought to go about clad in mourning and
in rags, your eyes filled with tears of re-
morse, to make us forget that you have been
mankind’s destruction! Woman, you are
the Gate of Hell!”
	What I wish to do for a few minutes is
gravely to consider how we can improve this
so-called Gate of Hell. * *
	I would educate her—educate her high-
ly, educate her deeply, educate her broad- 
ly. I would let up on accomplishments.
Less embroidery, more physics, chem-
istry and biology; less bridge, more
mathematics, history and philosophy; less
Sordello, more economics and sociology;
fewer chafing-dish recipes, and more do-
mestic science; fewer pseudo-graces, and
more knowledge and love of humanity; less
talk about great names, and more familiar-
ity with what made them great; far less of
the purely feminine, and far more of the
highly human.
	As a man thinketh so he is. As a woman
thinketh so she is. The mind becomes that
which it contemplates. Regard the wide
universe, not with a vacant and idle stare,
but ponderingly; sooner or later you will be-
come universal. Look always upon a sphere
small in diameter, small in circumference,
and your mind will hold that sphere and no
more. It may have its beauty, that asteroid,
its hothouse flowers and its Chinese trees,
but you will miss the stars at midnight, the
salt of the sea, and the winds that blow
from afar.
	The intuitive power of woman is very
great. When to this is added intellectual
power, when the vine of the mind, which in
woman has been made for countless gen-
erations to lie prone, to run idly, to waste all
its strength and sweetness—when the vine
of her mind is raised, trained upon the trellis
of knowledge, watered, warmed, enriched,
tended, kept in the sunshine of companion-
ship, of broad thinking, of great social and
human ideals, then, indeed, will we build
her up with nobility and with power!
Train her mind, teach it broad and altruistic
thinking, open to it the doors of human ex-
perience, change it from a bit of carbon in
a forgotten room to a noble, flashing jewel,
from a small, stagnating pool to a crystal
spring giving life and joy to all the fields
around, and, strange and strange to say, in
the measure that you mete to woman, in
that measure will enlightenment be meted to
the human race. Give to her the breadth
which comes from communion, not with one
or two, but with many minds, give her free-
dom of thought, give her the larger touch,
the vital warmth, the electric spark, give her
largeness of horizon, give her light—and in
just that degree and measure will you give
to the human species breadth and sweep and
vital warmth and growth and light! 
	Sometimes, even under the heavy beams
and rafters with which the ages have closed
her in; under the roof, so pretty sometimes
with gables and bright tiles and flower-pots
and tinkling bells like a pagoda, and some-

[Column 2]
times so very sordid and horrible, sometimes
even under that roof the mother of human-
ity dreams a dream and sees a vision.
	She sees health and wisdom and happi-
ness. She sees a poison field being made a
garden. She sees two gardeners who work
side by side. She sees the flowers that they
plant and the weeds that they pluck up. She
sees uprooted and destroyed the nightshade
of intemperance, lust, mania, uncontrolled
appetite; uprooted and destroyed the harsh,
swarth dock leaves of poverty; uprooted
and destroyed the tares of idleness, self-
indulgence and folly. She sees flowers
and fruit trees and waving grain, and two
gardeners who grow in stature.
	Sometimes her vision deepens, and then
she sees a race that shall be to the race of
today as demi-gods and goddesses, as strong
angels of the four winds. She sees physical
beauty, pure and strong, sublime and tender!
She sees clear eyes, and nerves like fine steel,
and a brain that shall cope at last with the
world. She sees hands that shake not and
feet that are firm. She sees great artists in
conduct, crystal simplicity, sincerity in all
things. She sees the human will, clear and
strong at last as the lightning brand, and she
sees it directed to mighty ends. She sees
great health and beauty and knowledge and
happiness and eternal growth!
	My third and last specification for the
new gateway of the nations is a great and
loving heart. Oh, I know that “Hell Gate”
is said already to possess it! All manner of
evil has been spoken of her, but that one
thing is rarely said. She is not called
hard of heart. Her tender heart—her gen-
tle heart—her loving heart! It is proverbial.
The poets sing of it. And yet—and yet!
If, in this world of the beginning of the
twentieth century, she is not hard of heart—
I speak broadly, of this Gate in the mass
as it were—what is she? Dull? Unawak-
ened? “Oh,” cries someone, “neither dull
nor unawakened nor hard of heart in her
own home and to her neighbors.”
	And Jesus, answering, said: A certain
man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho
and fell among thieves, which stripped him
of his raiment, and wounded him and de-
parted, leaving him half dead.
	And by chance there came down a cer-
tain priest that way; and when he saw him
he passed by on the other side.
	And likewise a Levite when he was at the
place, came and looked on him, and passed
by on the other side.
	But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed,
came where he was; and when he saw him
he had compassion on him.
	And went to him, and bound up his
wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set
him on his own beast, and brought him to
an inn, and took care of him. 
	And on the morrow when he departed he
took out two pence and gave them to the
host, and said unto him, Take care of him,
and whatever thou spendest more, when I
come again I will repay thee.
	Which now of these three, thinkest thou,
was neighbor unto him who fell among the
thieves?
	And he said, He that showed mercy on
him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go thou
and do likewise.
	Woman is the mother of humanity.
	All the men and all the women that ever
were, or are, or will be; all the heroes, all
the saints and sages, all the downtrodden

[Column 3]
and oppressed, all the rich, all the poor, all
the criminal, all the maimed, the queen on
her throne, the woman at the cotton loom,
the Sister of Charity, the Red Cross nurse,
the girl on the streets, the man of the hour,
the derelict in prison—all, all are bone of
her bone and flesh of her flesh, borne nine
months within her body, nursed at her breast,
cradled within her arms. All, all are our
children, and we are as universal as Nature.
Care for our own? Then must we care for
the whole wide earth. Kindly to our neigh-
bors? When did we last see the neighbor
in the sweat shop? The neighbor in the night
court? The little neighbor in the cotton mill?
Serve the world by bringing forth children?
Yes, but what kind of children, and to what
end? Keep the home? The world is our
home. The child that clings to your skirts?
What right have you to betray him and to
leave him when he is grown?
	Oh, woman, woman! We have been
a slave in Egypt to that notion of Tertul-
lian’s long enough! We are not Hell Gate.
At the worst we were never that. There
have been lovers, there have been poets,
there have been sons and daughters who
knew it. There have been some to call us
Heaven Gate.

“The Woman Soul leads us upward and on.”

	But we are not Heaven Gate, either. We
are human beings, the child and the mother
of human beings, and that is miracle enough.
What is a human being? It is something
that has come out of a lower and mounts
toward a higher. It is something that moves
through a wondrous drama toward a tre-
mendous destiny. It is something that
grows from within.
	Keeping the old name for a moment, we
may say that the building of this new
Gate differs from all other architectural
propositions. Gates of stone and marble are
made from without. The new gate must be
built without hands, and the architect lodges
within. That architect can do what she will.
There is no real limit; all limits are fanciful.
She can do what she will, and now the thing
of all others to be desired is that she shall
WILL it!—The Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Toronto now has six women suffrage
clubs. A new one was formed a few days
ago.
	A larger percentage of the registered
women than of the registered men voted
at the recent school election in Seattle.
	In France a bill has been introduced to
grant municipal suffrage to women. A pe-
tition for giving them the parliamentary vote
has been accepted by the committee of the
chamber, and 24 members of parliament are
said to have pledged themselves to the meas-
ure.
	Miss Alice M. Broughton is the superin-
tendent of luncheons for the Home and
School League of Philadelphia, which has
just issued its first annual report on its
work in serving luncheons in the public
schools of that city. The luncheons are di-
vided into two classes, one costing one cent,
the other three cents. During a single
month 8,052 one-cent and 800 three-cent
luncheons were served in a single school.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State of the Nation.

