Vol. 40.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1911						No. 3.


CONTENTS.
Stratford-on-Avon in Festive Garb........
	...................Alice Louise Reynolds	17
A Talk on Children.........Tillie B. Green	18
A Loving Tribute....................................	19
In Memroy of Aunt May........................
	....................Julia P. M. Farnsworth	21
Life Sketch of Mary Magdalene Swindle
	............................Mary E. Magleby	21
Tribute and Resolutions of Respect........
	.............................Mamie Simmons	21
General Relief Society Conference........	23
Odds and Ends........................................	23
Notes and News.................................19,	21
R. S. Reports—Bear River Stake...........	21
	Bannock Stake, North Sanpete Stake,
		Emery Stake ..........................	22
	Alpine Stake...................................	24
Editorial: Resolutions of Respect...........	20
	Possibilities of the Age...................	20
Editorial Notes........................................	20
Poetry: Fatherhood.Edwin Carlisle Listey	17


FATHERHOOD.
I could not tread the path you went last night
	O my beloved, with your eyes of awe
It was a time when my protecting might
	Could bring no shield between you and Life’s
		law!

I could not even guard you on your way,
	Nor share one little mite of all your pain
I could but feel—and hope—and dumbly pray
	That you would safely come to me again.

And you have come * * I do not seem to know
	I am a father * * All my thoughts outpour
To you, who last night felt the undertow—
	Safe in the haven of my heart once more!
—Edwin Carlile Listey—Metropolitan Magazine.


[Column 1]
	STRATFORD-ON-AVON IN FESTIVE
				GARB.
	England, always beautiful in her country
districts, is surpassingly lovely in the
months of April and May. Warwickshire
is known far and near for its beauty. The
story is told that twelve Englishmen were
once asked to name the prettiest drive in
all England, and that six wrote from War-
wick to Coventry, and the other six from
Coventry to Warwick.
	And now I am going to ask you to ac-
company me in imagination from Leaming-
ton to Stratford, in the month of April, for
I want you to attend the Shakespeare fes-
tival held on the anniversary of the poet’s
birth. The black thorn is still in bloom, and
in a few weeks the country will be a mass
of pink and white blossoms, for May will be
here, and all the hedgerows of hawthorne
will be in their most attractive garb. Nev-
ertheless, the beech and elm and broad-
leaved sycamore trees are now in full leaf,
and on each side as we ride along the green
stretches of country are pied with daisies
and buttercups, while here and there the
primrose is in bloom.
	Reaching Stratford, by rail, we shall dis-
cover that it is in gala dress. But these dec-
orations are no mere matter of color, they

[Column 2]
are significant and appropriate in the high-
est degree. These shields that you see in
midair, they are the coat of arms of many
of the characters mentioned in Shake-
speare’s plays, or perhaps they are the arms
of the old guild crafts of the borough. This
row of windows that proves attractive has
within it many of the flowers mentioned in
Shakespeare’s plays, and that flagpole in the
distance, so heavily laden, bears flags sent
from a dozen different nations to symbolize
the homage that the world pays to the great
writer of English drama.
	As we walk along our attention will be
drawn to a pyramid-shaped fountain with
little Gothic spires—it is the munificent gift
of Mr. Childs of Philadelphia, placed there
during the year of the Queen’s jubilee. On

[picture of Alice Louise Reynolds]

	MISS ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.
its sides are quotations from Shakespeare.
There is one exception to this statement, for
on one side we read the words of Washing-
ton Irving—the American. We give quo-
tations from two sides. The first from Hen-
ry Eighth, act five, scene four:
	“In her days every man shall eat in safety
under his own vine what he plants, and sing
the merry songs of peace to all his neigh-
bors: God shall be truly known; and
those about her. From her shall read the
perfect ways of honor, and by these claim
their greatness not by blood.”
	The second quotation is from Tymon of 
Athens, act one, scene two:
	“Honest water that never left man in the
mire.”
	From here we shall make our way to the

[Column 3]
birthplace of Shakespeare, an old house
with gabled roof and low-ceilinged rooms,
of Tudor architecture. This house fronts
the street, but in the rear the grounds are
lovely. There an attempt is made to grow
every flower and shrub mentioned in Shake-
speare’s plays. The grammar school that
the poet attended, and Anne Hathaway’s
cottage, at Shottery, where Shakespeare
wooed and won his bride will come in for
a share of attention.
	But let us suppose that it is the twenty-
third of April, the day of the poet’s birth.
It happens in the year 1911 to fall on Sun-
day, and so we shall meet at Trinity Church,
where the poet lies buried, and there listen
to a sermon by Canon Beeching, of West-
minster Abbey. The next day we shall
meet at the birthplace, and from there we
may march with boquet in hand to the
Church. The bells of the parish church are
chiming, as we make our way down the
chancel, where the clergy at the altar rail
will take our floral offering and place it on
the grave. As we chance to be casual visit-
ors we shall not likely be in the lead of the
procession, consequently, we shall find by
the time that we approach the grave, that
it is entirely covered with flowers that form
a great white mound over and about the slab
that marks the poet’s resting place.
	Leaving the Church we shall make our
way to the memorial theatre, a building that
combines in one, library, playhouse, and mu-
seum. Perhaps Ellen Terry is there giving
a lecture on Shakespeare’s heroines, or per-
haps other London celebrities are presenting
Hamlet or Othello. Perchance, in the open
air, one may witness the May revels, or
Morris dances now being revived all over
England. There is still another chance that
“As You Like It,” or some others of Shake-
speare’s plays are being given in the open
	Evening is approaching now, and perhaps
we shall fancy a ride on the slow-flowing
Avon, and so we hire a boat. It may be
called Rosalind, Juliette, or Portia, what
matter so that we are in the company of one
of Shakespeare’s masterly creations. We
shall make our way by water towards the
church, now bathed in the glorious light of
an English sunset, and at such a fortunate
time, view both church and churchyard.
Soon the streaks of crimson and purple will
grow dim, and with them the church spires
and the lovely churchyard will fade from
our sight. Slowly we drop down the river,
past the Shakespeare monument, with the
statue of Hamlet fronting the river, under
which we may read, as we pass, Horatio’s
last words to the unfortunate prince, “Good
night, sweet prince, and flights of angels
sing thee to thy rest.’ And so with the
shades of night falling fast about, we part
from thee, dear Stratford, with all thy
beauty, and with all they marvelous asso-
ciations, with the words of thy immortal
bard upon our lips:
	“Thou art so lovely, fair, and smallest so
sweet that the senses ache at thee.” 
		ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A TALK ON CHILDREN. 
Paper read in Pioneer Stake Relief Society. 
	So much can be said about the rearing
of children that one hardly knows where
to begin. Every mother may have dif-
ferent ideas, different experiences as the
result of dealing with childrn of varied
dispositions, for we will find in any fam-
ily that there are rarely if ever two chil-
dren of the same temperament—two that
can be governed alike. What will per-
haps appeal to and govern one child will
have no effect upon another, while some
children are of such a sensitive nature
that the least word of reproof will cause 
them to shrink as it were into themselves. 
	That the back is fitted for the burden
is truly verified when mothers with a
great deal of wisdom and patience are en-
abled to rightly and justly cope with all
these conditions and to successfully un-
derstand their children. It is indeed sad
when children are misunderstood. A 
young man said to me a short time ago
that all his life he had been misunder-
stood. He told me of how especially as
a child his ideas and motives were mis-
construed, and he felt that if he had been
more thoroughly understood his youthful
days would have been much happier. I 
thought that it was indeed deplorable, 
for I knew he had as good a mother as 
ever lived—one who did everything a
mother could do for a child, and I believe
she came nearer sympathizing and under-
standing him than any one else, yet she
has often said that it had taken more tact
and patience to raise this child than all
the rest of her children together. 
	When children begin to form friend-
ships with other boys and girls, when
they are not content to remain at home
for all their pleasure, it is then that the
parents of these children should bestir
themselves if never before, and try to
make their home life so pleasant, so agre-
able, that no outside influence can tear
them away. We should not think more
of our homes than our children; there
should not be a corner too good for them. 
Let them see the inside of your parlors
occasionally, let them feel at liberty to in-
vite their friends in, have them spend the
evening around your fireside and do not
so far outlive your youth that you can join
in their games and be one with them if the
occasion presents itself. Most homes are
far too serious. There are some homes
which upon entering you can feel in the
very atmosphere that there is no joking
permitted, no laughter allowed, and if a
child makes the least move it is immedi-
ately told to hush up and keep quiet. Chil-
dren should be allowed to play and dance
to their hearts content, for they will get
rubs enough, knocks enough and a great
deal of the hard side of life later on, and
parents should resolve to make their child-
hood days so happy and joyous that when
they get out and have to meet the cold
world, combat with unpleasant conditions,
they can look back upon their home as the
one pleasant spot on earth, the sacred mem-
ory of which has saved many a person from
losing their self-respect. When children
are allowed to give vent to all that is
joyous and happy in their natures, they will
develop into happy and useful men and

[Column 2]
women instead of sad, suppressed, melan-
choly creatures. A writer said, “Mirth is
God’s medicine,” and we should all take of it
in abundance. Play to a child is what sun-
shine is to a plant. You cannot give them
too much sunshine, too much love. They
thrive upon pleasure and the home is the
place above all others where they should get
plenty of it. Some one has said, “If you
want to spoil your children, let them feel
that all their pleasure and mirth must be left
at the door on entering their home at night.”
And when our homes become regarded as
a place simply to eat, drink and sleep, a
work is started that cannot help but end un-
happily. Children should be taught to get
pleasure out of the common things of life. 
This will often prevent the restless tenden-
cies we sometimes find in children to believe
they would be happier somewhere else or
under other conditions. Teach children to
laugh at their misfortunes and to see the
bright side of unpleasant things which we
cannot always control. 
	A great misfortune to befall a growing
child is to have a mother who is always
tormented with nervous fears and when a
mother continually gives way to these fears
whether minute or morbid, she will in time
make the movements of her children one of
fear and timidity. A mother who never
makes a move or allows her children to
move without conjuring up a myriad of pos-
sibilities embitters their life with a slow-eat-
ing poison. Yet from our earliest existence
we have to a certain extent been under this
ban of fear. A child is cautioned perhaps a
thousand times a year to look out for this
or that. It might get hurt, it might get run
over, something terrible might happen to
it if it does so and so, and it is a most cruel
thing to impress on a child’s mind this in-
nate fear for it is like a letter cut upon a
sapling—it grows wider and deeper with
age. Do not fail to teach a child fearless-
ness, for it is a cruel thing to see a child in
constant terror of the dark or haunted with
fear of the unknown. Children should not
be frightened into obedience by being told
if they don’t go to sleep the boogie man will
get them or a big bear will eat them up. 
It is to be wondered how much sleep a
grown person would get in a position where
this might be possible. 
	Mothers waste a great deal of energy in
worrying about their children. How many
times in imagination have we seen our chil-
dren fall out of trees, off of sheds, have
seen our boys brought home drowned when
they have gone fishing or swimming, have
in imagination seen all kinds of horrible
things befall each one of the family, and
when none of these things really happen,
what have we to compensate for the hours
of mental anguish and the subsequent low-
ering of vitality and physical tone, for not
one wrinkle in a thousand or one gray hair
in a million have been caused by actual ills
and troubles. The things which make us
grow old, which takes the light from the eye
and the elasticity from the step are bridges
we have never crossed, troubles which have
never come. The trials and troubles which
are actually ours to bear are with rare ex-
ception trifling in comparison with the
things over which we worry but which never
have happened and a mother assumes great
responsibility when with some silly fear of
injury she forbids her children such physical 

[Column 3]
development as will promote courage, en-
durance, self-reliance and self-control. 
	Parents who are always harping on the
shortcomings of their children, scolding and
nagging at them will be sure to bring out
the worst that is in them. They can bring
out whatever quality they appeal to and
whatever thoughts radiate their own minds. 
If children do not confide in their mothers,
it is not always the chilnren’s fault, for
there are some mothers who are so crusted,
so unapproachable that their children really
dare not open up their hearts to them. Par-
ents and children should live in such confi-
dence, that when the children begin to out-
grow the stories told them of the stork’s
visit to their homes occasionally that mother
can then take their children, and in a sim-
ple, delicate and truthful manner explain
some of these things which are beginning to
trouble their little minds, for if a mother
neglects these things the children will get
their information elsewhere, perhaps from
an older playmate and in this manner chil-
dren quite often get these ideas so miscon-
strued that it has a demoralizing effect in
their young minds. 
	Parents should use their best judgment
in the punishment of their children. I be-
lieve there have been as many children
spoiled from an over dose of the rod as from
the sparing of the rod, for the fear of pun-
ishment has caused many a child to add de-
ceit and falsehood to whatever else they
may have done and some time the children
are severely whipped not so much for the
offense committed as a means for angry
parents giving vent to their feelings.
	I have heard young mothers express
themselves as dreading to see their children
start to school; they felt as though their
children would be growing away from them,
they wondered how they would be able to
get along. We cannot keep our children
“tied to our apron strings”—we cannot go
with them everywhere they go, watch every
word they utter or every act they do. We
have simply got to trust them, for sooner
or later they will have to meet the world—
will have to stand upon their own feet, be
able to choose between right and wrong,
and the sooner this is accomplished the
sooner your child will be able to take his
place in line in this great battle of life. 
	We are living in such a busy world that
I am sorry to say many little children would
have very little attention paid to their moral
training if it were not for the teaching
received in all Church organizations. Some
mothers seem to feel they have done their
duty by their children in seeing that they
are properly clothed and fed. We should
try to live near to our children, have heart
to heart talks with them on evenings when
their play and work is over, try to get them
round us, find out if we can what they have
been doing during the day—who they have
been playing with and what their play has
been, and in this manner we can get into
their confidence and things may come up
whereby we can impress upon them a last-
ing lesson in kindness, honesty, truthfulness,
etc. Orison Swett Marden, in one of his
wrintings, said “The best legacy a man can
leave his family is the memory of a clean
record and a life well spent.’ When I read
this it reminded me of what my father used
to say. It was that while he lived he would
gladly spend what he could accumulate for
the raising and advancement of his family,


but when he died, although perhaps he
would not be able to leave his children much
else, he hoped to leave them a memory of
a life of honesty and integrity that they
should always be proud of.” To bring your
children up to respect themselves, to love the
right and to hate the wrong, to be strong,
vigorous, self-reliant and independent, to do
their own thinking so that they might be-
come leaders instead of trailers, to trust in
God and love all mankind, this is to leave
your children something. 
				TILLIE B. GREEN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A LOVING TRIBUTE.
	In writing of the late Mother in Israel
whose life and labors are but briefly told in
the sketch we publish below, one feels how
heroically noble were the women of the
earlier days in this Church, and how patient-
ly they bore trials almost beyond human en-
durance. Experiences, some of them too
terrible to be told, and yet it is well for the
younger generation of the present time to
know something of the struggles and hard-
ships some of the early settlers of these now
beautiful mountain vales endured to make
the waste places pleasant and desirable.
	Words are inadequate to express the
strength of character displayed on occasions
that required the magnamity and supreme
courage of one whose whole heart and soul
were wise—yes, must have been filled with
divine fire to pass unscathed through the
perils that beset the way of the Latter-day
Saints in the early history—women, too,
with little children clinging to them, fleeing
from their homes and enduring perils by the
way.
	Too much reverence cannot be given to
those who bore the heat and burden of the
day and kept the faith, and they must have
had an inner, eternal, abiding faith, not sim-
ply belief, but a fountain of living faith; that
gave them something more than human en-
durance.
	Such indeed was the faith of this good,
great and grand woman whose life was
spent in loving service, among the exiled
Saints and it would be well for the young
women of today to make themselves fa-
miliar with the experiences and character-
istics of the heroines of Mormondom.—
Editor.

			LIFE SKETCH.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Richardson Huffaker was
born in New Hampshire, May 28, 1829, of
sturdy agricultural parentage, being the
daughter of Stephen Richardson and Erepta
Wilder.
	When she was about three years of age
her parents joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Some “Mormons” were holding a meeting
at the home of a neighbor, Lorin Farr, and
they were persuaded to go. Mrs. Richard-
son inclined to believe in signs, remarked, as
she put the baby to sleep preparatory to
going, “If Sallie stays asleep until I return,
I shall be inclined to half believe what those
people say.”
	They went to the meeting, listened and
believed. They, with most of the people of
their neighborhood joined the Church.
	Sister Huffaker, when old enough, was
baptized and as she came up out of the wa-
ter it was, as she expressed it, “as if the
heavens opened and she was as light and

[Column 2]
joyous as if she had gained all things.” She
never from that moment wavered though
she went through all the trials incident to
the early history of the Church.
	In 1838 the Richardson family moved
to Kirtland, Ohio, and thence to Illinois,
the family settling on a farm about a day
and a half’s journey from Nauvoo. Here
Elizabeth grew to womanhood.
	Sister Huffaker remembered having
heard the Prophet Joseph speak once when
he was interrupted in his sermon by one
of his enemies until the latter was forcibly
ejected from the meeting.
	At the age of sixteen she married Simp-
son David Huffaker, a widower with six
children. This was in January, 1846.
	She had not thought of marriage and at
first her impulse was to say ,,No.” She was
such a girl, but something whispered again
and again, “You had better say yes and go
to Nauvoo with him.” Therefore she con-
sented. Her parents at that time expected
to go to Nauvoo and never thought of
leaving the Church, which all did later when
the question of polygamy was agitated.
Hence Sister Huffaker always felt that had
she not gone then with Brother Huffaker
she would never have come west with the
Church.
	They were in Nauvoo at the time of the
exodus, Brother Huffaker being a member
of “The Spartan Band” of guards. During 
the attack a cannon ball struck the chimney
of their house and she gathered the fam-
ily together to flee. On the way her hus-
band met her and told her of the twenty-
four hour truce.
	Before leaving the house she had put a
large sum of money, the price of their 
farm, in an old stocking, and hung it down
the well. During the truce they returned
and putting the sum in an old bucket they
covered it with nails and placed the bucket
in full view on the wagon. As they were
searched going out many a mobocrat sat
down on this old bucket while the wagon
was overhauled. Brother Huffaker had
taken their gun to pieces and hidden part
of it in the wagon while Mrs. Huffaker had
fastened a pair of colts around her waist un-
der her dress. One part of the gun was
found by a searcher. With an oath he de-
dared “the d— Mormon had hidden the
rest somewhere, and everything in the
wagon was thrown out in the search, their
corn sacks being cut open and the contents
scattered on the ground. Mr. Huffaker, 
during part of the troublous time, was in
hiding for the mobocrats were “baptizing”
all Mormons by repeated duckings and as
he could not swim he knew his life would
be in danger were he caught.
	With the rest of the refugees the family
crossed the river and traveled with the 
Saints as far as the Des Moines River. As
he was taken ill of chills and fever the fam-
ily remained there that winter, going on to
Winter Quarters in the spring of 1847.
Here they began their journey to Zion in
the company of Jedediah M. Grant, Brother
Huffaker being a leader of ten. They ar-
rived in Utah in October, 1847. Sister
Huffaker traveling in a light buggy often
rode ahead and at one time when some dis-
tance in advance she found herself encir-
cled by a band of Indians. Whirling her
horses she started on a run towards camp,
still surrounded by warriors who, however,
did not offer to molest her. She, however,
never ventured in advance again.

[Column 3]
	One sad event rendered part of the jour-
ney gloomy. Sister Huffaker’s sister-in-
law gave birth to twins while on the jour-
ney and when they were but a few days old
her child next older was crushed to death
under the wheels of her wagon.
	After arriving in Utah they settled final-
ly in Cottonwood.
	Sister Huffaker and her husband re-
turned to the East on a visit in the fall of
1856, in the company of Brother Parley P.
Pratt. Her family, except her babe, was
left in charge of her oldest stepdaughter.
On their return, in the spring, they found
the dread scourge smallpox had taken this
daughter, one of Sister Huffaker’s children
and a child of Brother Huffaker’s plural
wife.
	Sister Huffaker later made two other
visits East.
	The later years of Sister Huffaker’s life,
after the death of her husband, were spent
at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Wm.
Perry, at whose home she died, April, 1911.


TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	A tribute to the memory of our beloved sis-
ter and teacher, Laura Petrae Hansen, who
departed this life July 29th, 1911. She was
born at Tidsvilde, Sjelland, Denmark, on July
30th, 1861. She in connection with her parents
joined the Mormon Church July 5th, 1878; em-
grated to Utah in 1880 and with her parents
located in Logan, where she was married to
James F. Hansen on January 20th, 1881. They
shortly afterwards moved to Richmond, and
in the fall of 1884 to Newton, which has since
been their home. Sister Hansen was the moth-
er of ten children, two of whom have preceded
her to the other side and is survived by her
husband and eight children.

			Resolutions.
	Whereas, our highly esteemed sister, at the
close of a beautiful life, has been called to her
heavenly home, we her sisters who know of
her loving deeds, and appreciate her many no-
ble qualities, desire to express our sympathy
for her sorrowing husband and children and to
acknowledge her labors and ministrations of
kindness as a member and teacher of the Relief
Society in the Newton Ward, also as a friend
and neighbor in the best sense of the term.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That we emulate
her noble character, her liberality as a donor
for charitable purposes, that we do humbly
testify that faith, charity, and humility were
leading traits of her character, and that her
steadfast devotion to the work of God is an
example which we should all strive to emulate.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family and bid them
look up and trust in God.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded
in the records of the Newton Relief Society,
one presented to the family and also published
in The Woman’s Exponent.

	“She’s gone, but to a rest so sweet
		To all the faithful given.
	Oh, may we earn through earthly life, 
		The same sweet bliss in heaven. 

	May her devout life on earth
		Of patience, hope and love
	Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
		From him who rules above.”


Mrs. William Keith of Berkeley, Cal.,
who has given $3,000 to the present suf—
frage campaign, had devoted, about $1,000 a
year to the cause for the last ten years.
She puts in not only money, but a great
amount of personal labor, lending a hand in
almost every line of work, including the
house-to-house canvassing.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	OCTOBER, 1911


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
To the Memory of the Late President
	Lillian M. Hollister, of the National
	Council of Women, by the National
	Relief Society and Young Ladies’ Mu-
	tual Improvement Associations.

	When in the course of human experi-
ence, the silver cord of a life—full, useful,
and complete, is suddenly loosed, and the
golden bowl is unexpectedly broken, all
associated lives quiver in the shock of
that loss and stand confused and helpless
before the Divine fiat.
	Therefore—Knowing the great service
rendered by Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister to
the cause of human advancement as crys-
tallized in her position as President of the
National Council of Women of the United
States, as Supreme Commander of the
Ladies of the Maccabees of the World,
and as officer and worker in the W. C. T.
U., in the Woman’s International and
Michigan State Press Associations, in the
Federation of Women’s Clubs, in the
Woman’s Relief Corps, in the Order of
the Eastern Star and the Degree of
Honor—
	Knowing also her uncounted services
in the financial emancipation of woman-
hood, hitherto hampered by sex condi-
tions and traditions—
	Knowing as well the loss sustained by
the wide circles which have been reached
through her writings and lectures, her
personal ministrations and magnetic lead-
ership—
	Therefore—We, the officers and mem-
bers of the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety and Young Ladies’ Mutual Im-
provement Associations do unite in this
public expression of our own loss in the
sudden death of Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister,
President of the National Council of
Women.
	We further desire to convey to her in-
timate associates, her family, to our own
members and to the womanhood of this
country, and of the civilized world our
deep conviction that such a life, and such
labors are in themselves a priceless her-
itage which are at once ideal, and a chal-
lenge to all of her sex to like aims, to
similar achievements.
	May the wise Father administer com-
fort to the bereaved husband and associ-
ates, and preserve fruitful remembrances


to all who knew and loved Mrs. Lillian
M. Hollister.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Pres. Nat’l. Woman’s Relief Society.
	SUSA YOUNG GATES,
	CARRIE S. THOMAS,
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE,
		Com. N. W. Relief Society.
	MARTHA H. TINGEY
		Pres. Y. L. N. M. I. A.
	RUTH M. FOX, MAE T. NYSTROM,
	ANN M. CANNON,
		Y. L. N. M. I. A. Com.


POSSIBILITIES OF THE AGE.
	It is quite impossible to tell in one or two
or even many pages of books or magazines
the innumerable advantages and rapid for-
ward studies of those who are undertaking
the great work of the age in its upward
and onward growth towards higher and
greater things.
	This is the day of rapidity in all move-
ments and attainments, and one wonders
and scarcely dares conjecture what will be
undertaken and purchance achieved by those
who are pushing on in the scale of progress
in the world’s work of the age in which we
of the present generation are living and try-
ing to fill some small niche, in this vast pano-
rama of the world’s great pageantry.
	To enumerate the discoveries and the
progressive advancement in only a few
things would be a gigantic undertaking even
on paper—but suffice it to say—this is the
age of wonders, and the prophecies of the
ancients in the Scriptures old and more mod-
ern are coming to pass before our very eyes,
and the people are witnesses of the fulfill-
ment, and they know it not or will not ac-
knowledge it, or are so blinded by the daz-
zling array of wondrous miracles as it were
that they cannot quite grasp the potency
and intrinsic value of the advantages to be
gained by the appliances now brought into
use and saving manual labor of men and
women—thus giving time to devote to the
higher channels of human wisdom and intel-
ligence.
	In the meantime are the people doing and
accomplishing the actual work that will
entitle them to stand on a higher plane intel-
lectually, educationally, and in managing the
arts and sciences so as to give a tone of ex-
cellence in design of architecture and beauty
in homes and grounds, in forest, fields and
gardens never before reached by the peo-
ple who own and inhabit this land of Amer-
ca, which is yet to be the dwelling-place of
those who can attain to the best in the up-
lifting of the human race.
	If the chosen people who came into this
wilderness and endured the hardships and
privations incident to such an exodus, are to
establish Zion in her beauty and glory in the
tops of the mountains that all nations may
flow unto it and they really have made a
good beginning—then the people should go
on adding the superior graces that beautify
and adorn the lives and characters of those
who represent the Church of latter-days.
	Many women as well as men in the past
have attained to great excellence in the vir-
tues that adorn the lives of Saints, we who
live today have their example—yet they had
greater difficulties to encounter than we of
the present—are we reaching as high a stan-
dard of excellence as they attained?

[Column 2]
	This generation have all the opportuni-
ities to develop and obtain the spiritual en-
dowments that excell all else, we have Tem-
ples wherein we can go and accomplish the
greater work of redemption of our kindred
that they may stand with the redeemed upon
mount Zion—is there anything in this fair
world of ours to be compared with this
higher life that is within the reach of many
that are now in the pursuit of frivolity and
fashion, and things of lesser value, that can
only bring remorse and regret, and cannot
be compared with that which leads to purity
and genuine attributes of heart and soul
that will fit and purpose one to be compan-
ons for angels to minister in holy places,
and to behold the glory and share in the
wondrous transformations that are to come
about in the future unfolding of the great
plan of salvation and exaltation—that will
be revealed to those who are worthy to par-
ticipate in the scenes that must transpire be-
fore the ushering in of the great Millennial
morn.
	Upon the youth of today depends, not
only the greatness of the near future of the
affairs of the business world, but the enter-
prise and growth of the educational advan-
tages as also the moral and spiritual forces
that move the world of mankind towards
higher and better things than any of the
benefits that can be bought with a price.
	Faith above all else is necessary to instil
into the minds and hearts of the young and
tender human plants, while in their baby-
hood—and even before there can be such
thoughts and desires and the condition of
mind and heart that will culminate in an in-
telligence that will become an inheritance
that will never die out. Prenatal influ-
ences are strong and lasting and the moth-
er who seeks for this gift and grace from
the Lord for her unborn child will have
her reward in due time if her faith fails not.
	Children born in the eternal marriage
covenant and trained by wise mothers and
faithful fathers, what may not be expected
of them?

		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The glorious victory won by the women
of the great State of California is not only
a decided triumph of the cause, but proves
the strength of the sentiment of equal suf-
frage more decidedly than any other move-
ment that has culminated so auspiciously
that it is likely to extend its influence abroad
and permeate many localities, or at any ex-
tent other states in the Union. Great things
may be expected to transpire very shortly.
The National Council of Women of the
United States, with which the Relief Society
and the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association are affiliated, will hold its Exec-
utive Session in Chicago, at the Auditorium
Hotel, the 13th and 14th of November. It
will be an important session as it will be
necessary to fill the vacancy caused by the
demise of Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister.
	The condition of matters in our City de-
mands from every good citizen at the pres-
ent time, the best efforts that can be made
for such measures to be brought about as will
introduce a new order of things, and do
away entirely and forever it is to be hoped
with evil and corruption, and introduce such
an order of good city government as shall, ut-
terly prevent the reign of vice and iniquity
that has been so disastrous to the peace and
harmony of this fair city.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORY OF DEAR AUNT MAY.
	Died: On Tuesday, October 3rd, 1911, Mrs.
May Bain Murdock, born October 25th, 1833,
in far off Dundee, Scotland. She became a 
member of the L. D. S. Church in 1849, and
in 1856, with her widowed mother, three sis-
ters, and a brother of six years, crossed the
plains in J. G. Willey’s handcart company,
Aunt May pushing a handcart all the way.
Her eldest brother, who had preceded the fam-
ily to Utah, by name Robert A. Bain, met them
at Green River and brought them on to Lehi,
their first home in the valleys.
	Dear Aunt May married my father, Hon.
John R. Murdock, a year later, and she had
one little son, who died at its birth, soon after
our family moved to Beaver, whither my father
was called to preside by President Young, in
the year 1864. Father, my mother, Aunt May
and we four oldest children left our home of 
comfort and our kindred, with heavy hearts.
	My mother and Aunt May lived in the same
home for twenty-one years, mother being an
invalid all this time. I have read of friend-
ship among men and women, have seen fam-
ilies love and respect each other, but I can
truly say I never knew such perfect trust, such
genuine regard and unselfish devotion between
two women, as was that exemplified and lived
in my father’s home.
	Aunt May has been our only mother for
thirty-three years, my own dear mother hav-
ing died in 1877. Aunt May was not only a 
benefactor to our immediate family circle, but 
to all the other branches and homes, to the
young men and women of the neighborhood, 
and the “strangers within the gates.’ All who
met or came under her influence, felt her mag-
netism, her largeness of heart. Many eminent
and distinguished guests have stayed at my
father’s home, in the early days of our Ter-
ritory, and Aunt May was largely the dispenser
of its hospitality and comfort. Colonel Thomas
L. Caine, the governors, judges, military offi-
cers of Utah, also the Presidents and Apostles 
of our Church and their families have often
partaken of her kindly service.
	Aunt May was a woman of strong traits of
character, broad mind, and well informed—
being a keen observer and a great reader, all
her life. She was the confidant, counselor and
nurse, the true and faithful friend of our whole
family, children and grandchildren. My
Grandfather Murdock, my mother, Aunt
May’s own mother, and her youngest brother
were all nursed, and taken care of by her un-
til they went to their long home, also, every
child of the family who preceded her.
	Until two years ago she resided in the old
family home at Beaver, with my youngest 
brother, except several times, when she went
to the Manti and Logan Temples to do work
for the dead. Two years last September she
moved to her youngest sister’s home, she be-
ing a widow and desiring to have her near. She
was tenderly cared for by her until her demise
as before stated. Aunt May left two sisters,
Mrs. Jane S. Coleman of Manti, Sanpete Coun-
ty, Mrs. Betsy S. Goodwin of Beaver City,
many nephews and nieces, besides my father
and his whole family, and many friends over
this and adjacent states, who will love and
revere her memory.
	Dear Aunt May’s funeral was held in the
Beaver Tabernacle, on the 6th of October.
The speakers were old tried friends. Her
Bishop and teachers both testified of her integ-
rity and faith in the Gospel. The flowers were
beautiful and abundant, the singing eloquent
and comforting, the prayers hopeful and in-
spiring. The pall-bearers were two of my
brothers, and their sons, two of my sister’s
sons and two of her nephews. My eldest
brother driving the hearse. We all know that
one of God’s noblest daughters has been called
home and our second mother. Heaven grant
we may live worthy to meet on that other beau-
tiful shore.
			JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH,
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 18, 1911.


A celebration of the victory will be held
at Faneuil Hall in Boston, Monday evening.
California songs will be sung and suffrage
pictures shown. Prominent local officials
will deliver addresses.


[Column 1]
LIFE SKETCH OF MARY MAGDALENE
			SWINDLE.
	Mary Magdalene Swindle, daughter of John
Witzig and Dorotha Gossoure, and the eldest
of four children, born May 29, 1843, in the
little town of Horgen, Switzerland, in hum-
ble circumstances, being brought up to the
hardships incidental to plain country life. As
the soul grows stronger through hardships
and truth conquors by opposition, this envir-
onment developed for her a strong character
and laid a foundation through the guidance of
providence for the great mission that was
dawning upon her.
	Her course in life was not the flowery path
made easy by protecting hands, but rather in-
spired to read in the things of God the word
“action,” for such were we created and it is
only when we live in accordance with that
great law of our being that we attain our
greatest aim, and truest happiness. Under the
tutoring of her dear mother and the Mormon
Elders, she became a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and was
one of those who through conviction had the
courage to be baptized when the ice was upon
the lake and had to be cleared away for that
purpose.
	At the age of 21 years she became the wife
of John Diggleman, three children came to
them through this marriage, Mary M., Lydia,
and John Herman, later a separation came and
she was thrown upon her own resources with
the children, and under extreme difficulty sent
her two youngest children, Lydia, of five years,
and John Herman, of four, in advance to
America with Mormon Elders, and in 1871 she,
with her eldest child, came to America and
joined once again her beloved children. Only
those who have gone through this experience
can appreciate these trying circumstances.
	On March 4, 1872, she became the plural
wife of George Swindle. There were born unto
them from this marriage four children, Annie,
Heber, Joseph and Ellen. After twelve years
of married life, George Swindle died, and she
was left again a widow to rely upon her own
resources.
	In 1884 she was called upon again to leave
her children and go to Salt Lake and take a
course in obstetrics. She completed this
course and was recommended by her instruc-
tors competent to take up that line of work.
	The balance of her life, until worn out by ex-
posure and over-exertion, was spent in assist-
ing humanity and relieving them of pain.
Her labors were mostly in the southern part
of Sevier County. Sister Swindle being very
particular to keep a record of the children
brought through her assistance, which shows
the splendid number of 800 children.
	Sister Swindle was throughout her life a very
zealous worker in her religion and especially
in the Relief Society work.
	She died May 27, 1911. Funeral services were
conducted May 29, 1911, when a vast audience
came to pay their last respects and followed
her remains to their last resting place.
	Sister Swindle was a very able secretary in
the Monroe Ward Relief Society twenty-four
years. The minute books are creditable com-
pliments of her faithful works.
	She was called and set apart to the secretary-
ship in the Sevier Stake Relief Society Board
twelve years ago, which office she filled up to
the time of her demise with great accuracy
and skill.
	Throughout all these years of Stake Labor
each Society has been visited once a year
(twenty societies in all), although many times
through storms on bad roads and inconveni-
ences of travel and in poor health. But
through fortitude and great determination
these duties have been accomplished and great
blessings realized.
	The sisters of the board who have been as-
sociated with her for so many years in love
and unity know her loyal friendship and ster-
ling worth.
	We shall miss her wise counsel and the in-
fluence of her humble, sweet yet forceful life.
Her going leaves a vacancy in our hearts that
will not be filled until we clasp her hand in
the home on high.
	We pause to say that the virtues so com-
mendable in our dear sister should be the dis-
tinguishing characteristics of every true mem-
ber of our society.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That while we, the
members of Sevier Stake Relief Society Board

[Column 2]
bow to the decree of our heavenly Father, may
He teach us from our hearts to say, “Thy will
be done.”
	And while we deplore the removal of our sis-
ter from among us, we cherish her memory
and worthy example and extend to her be-
reaved family our deepest sympathy and exhort
them to emulate her worthy life.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be given the family of the deceased as a token
of respect and a copy be recorded in our min-
ute books and a copy sent to The Woman’s
Exponent.
			MARY E. MAGELBY.


TRIBUTE AND RESOLUTIONS OF
			RESPECT
To the memory of Sister Inger J. Johnson,
from the members of the Sixth Ward Relief
Society, Provo City.
	Sister Johnson was born in Loten Hidmarke,
Norway, March 14th, 1844; was baptized Aug.
7th, 1862, by Brother Jens Peterson.
	When a girl she had a severe illness and
her body was reduced to a comparative shad-
ow, but by faith was miraculously healed by
the power of God, being the first member in the
Church in her native place to receive the ad-
ministration of the Elders.
	Wherein her parents wondered, she then
bore her testimony to them and prophesied
they would join the true Church of Christ.
	She came to Utah with her parents and
brothers and sisters in October, 1864, and en-
tered the sacred order of marriage with the
late Bishop J. P. R. Johnson, November 11th,
1865, by whom she had nine children, seven of
whom survive her, as also her aged mother in
her ninety’fifth year, and other kinsfolk. She
joined the Relief Society when first organ-
ized in Provo, and officiated as a teacher and
counselor up to her demise, which occurred
July 5th, 1911.
	She was a woman of a most exemplary char-
acter, earnest and faithful to a marked degree
and always carried a mild, sweet influence
which endeared her to all.
	Whereas, We feel to exemplify her life, in
which we recognized a choice spirit, and ever
hold her virtues in loving remembrance,
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed
on the record of our Relief Society and a copy
sent to the bereaved family.
				M. A. TILL,
				MAMIE SIMMONS.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	A well attended and extremely interesting
conference of the Bear River Stake Relief
Society convened in the Garland Hall, Wed-
nesday, June 14, 1911, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.
Stake President Julia A. Richards, presid-
ing.
	The visitors of the general bord were
Sisters Clarissa S. Williams and Romania B.
Penrose of Salt Lake City. There were also
present members of the stake presidency,
high councilmen, bishops of wards and other
brethren. Members of the Relief Society
Stake Board present.
	The forenoon was devoted to hearing re-
ports of the different wards, and listening to
the interesting addresses made by the visit-
ing sisters. Morgan Miller of Penrose Ward
rendered a fine solo.
	During the noon hour the Garland sis-
ters served excellent refreshments to all
present.
	Afternoon session.—Sisters Williams and
Penrose delivered splendid addresses. Re-
marks were made by Stake President Mil-
ton H. Welling. Bishop J. M. Stokes and
Elder J. P. Christenson.
	Solo, Margaret W. Manning.
	The conference was of especial interest


[Column 1]
to all, a very good spirit prevailed, and the
visit of the sisters was very much appre-
ciated, also the advice and instruction which
they gave. Attendance was very good.
			MARGARET W. MANNING.
								Secretary.
		BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of Bannock Stake Relief Society
Conference, August 17, 1911.
	Morning session.—President Julia Pond
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, President Julia A. Pond said she was
pleased to meet those present, and she gave
a report of the Relief Society work in the
stake. Reports of the various wards were
given by Rhoda Davis, Rachel Thatcher,
Sisters Eliason, Hogan, and Hanson, and
the president of Lund. Sister Tolman of
Chesterfield reported the Chesterfield So-
ciety.
	Sister Elizabeth McCune of Salt Lake
then spoke, saying she had enjoyed the work
of the Mutual, but now being called to labor
in the Relief Society wished to put all her
energy into the Relief Society. Our mis-
sionaries should be posted upon Relief So-
ciety work so they can be more useful. Spoke
at some length upon Temple work and of the
large attendance there of young people want-
ing to be married. She advised the young
girls to make a nice Temple suit, a pretty
simple dress, and have their own suits to
wear. She said the Relief Society sisters
should have a few Temple suits to rent, and
should see that everything is nice and clean.
	Sister Farnsworth of Salt Lake said she
was pleased to be with the sisters of the
stake. She said that President Emmeline B.
Wells sent her regards to all of the sisters.
Had been a worker in the Relief Society
forty-three years and was glad to be counted
worthy to work in this Society. Had visited
thirteen stakes this year, and had enjoyed
her work. She said that we should be
united in our homes children should re-
spect their parents. She spoke of the ad-
vantages the young people have in schools,
and of the nice looking school buildings they
had seen on the way. She was pleased to
know we were saving up grain.
	President L. S. Pond felt quite familiar
with the Relief Society sisters. The sisters
are indeed blessed to have such a talented
president as Sister Wells. Hoped the sisters
were here with pencil and paper to take
down the notes that will be such a benefit
to us in the future. Advised the sisters
who were expecting to build a granary to
buy a portable steel granary. She spoke to
the teachers about their visits.
	Benediction by Bishop T. H. Horsly.
	Afternoon session.—After the opening ex-
ercises Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of Salt
Lake said she was pleased with the reports
of the Societies. She spoke of the ten cent
fund used for maintaining our headquarters,
traveling expenses and for various other
uses. She spoke at some length on pro-
hibition. It is the duty of the Relief So-
ciety workers to work for prohibition, and
urged the sisters to use their franchise and
use it to the ennobling of mankind.
	Sister McCune spoke of the glory and
honor in having a large family; knew the
prayers of a father and mother in behalf of
their children will be heard, even if they are
wayward none of them will be lost.
	Sister Corbett was pleased to be with us,

[Column 2]
felt to endorse what the sisters had said, es-
pecially in regard to looking after our chil-
dren.
	Sister McClellen had enjoyed the con-
ference. Thought if we could only put into
practice what we had heard, we would be
better off. D. J. Lau enjoyed meeting with
the sisters, felt the sisters were doing one of
the best works in our community. The sis-
ters are the ones we turn to when we have
sickness or sorrow. The brethren should
turn out and help the sisters at this confer-
ence. Spoke of the good instructions that
have been given to us, they were given un-
der the Spirit of God, His heart went out
to the young mothers who are doing their
duty so nobly. We should appreciate the
nstructions of the visiting sisters.
	Bishop Thatcher and Bishop F. H. Horsly
spoke to the sisters.
	President Julia Pond felt very thankful
for the good spirit that had been present and
felt sure all of us would go home being bet-
ter men and women. She thanked the vis-
ting sisters for their good instructions.
	Sister McCune then gave a recitation.
Benediction was pronounced by President
L. S. Pond.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference of the North
Sanpete Stake held in Moroni, July 9, 1911.
	President Williamina Ericksen, presiding.
Meeting opened at 10 a. m. with the
usual exercises. President Hardy of the
Moroni Relief Society welcomed the sisters
to Moroni. Felt they had a good band of
sisters and great interest was manifested.
	Recitation by Ella Baker, of Fairview.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates said that this was the
first time that she had spoken in her new
mission. Spoke of the joy of companionship
with sister Richards, her traveling compan-
on. The mission of motherhood is one of
the most important. Encourage girls in
this respect. Spoke of the Exponent and
asked the support of the paper. Duties of
mothers in the home to instruct the children
to reverence father and all the Church au-
thorities. Said the library movement was
now to be started in Relief Society. Ad-
vised all to get the Church works first. Self-
shness is one of the faults we should try
to overcome.
	Acts of the Apostles, by Carrie L. Erick-
sen.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
	Singing, and prayer by Olive Acord.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent Ericksen presiding.
	Address by President Ericksen, who read
a letter from Sister Leoletta Christensen,
who is sick in California.
	Recitation by Sister Lund of Fountain
Green, “No Room for the Boys.”
	Sister Emily Richards of the General
Board spoke of her early experience
in storing grain. Joseph Smith turned
the key for the emancipation of wom-
en, when he organized the Relief Society.
She spoke of the fall of so many girls be-
cause of ignorance. We should keep the
confidence of our children. She wished our
young people could hear the beautiful things
said to guides, who escort tourists in Salt
Lake City. Girls should have training for
motherhood.
	Quartette by Mt. Pleasant North Ward.
	Sister Susy Y. Gates asked how many had

[Column 3]
read the book of Mormon and the Bible.
The most important thing is the gospel. The
saving of souls is the most important. Spoke
of Temple work and the gathering of gene-
alogies.
	President C. N. Lund endorsed every-
thing that had been spoken.
	Bishop Bradly was thankful for this priv-
lege of receiving such good instructions.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
Spirit of the conference enjoyed by all.
	Song by Clara Larsen, of Moroni.
	Benediction by Jos. Jolly.
		MRS. FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
							Stake Secretary.
			EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Emery Stake, held at Ferron Relief Society
Hall, August 6, 1911. President Louisa
Oveson, presiding.
	Of the General Relief Society Board there
were present, Edna May Davis and Susa
Y. Gates. Conference began with the usual
exercises.
	President Louisa Oveson welcomed the
visiting sisters, and was glad to see so many
present. Gave a brief report of the stake
showing it to be in good condition.
	A recitation was given by Mary A. Davis,
of Clawson.
	Edna May Davis, of the General Board,
said she was pleased to hear that the sisters
were obeying the instructions of Brigham
Young, as to the storing of grain. She ad-
vised the building of concrete granaries, and
said if each Society was not able to build
one for themselves, several could unite and
build one sufficiently large so that each share
holder could have a separate bin. She also
recommended the mixing of slacked lime
with wheat as a preventative against weevil.
Said that girls should be taught to hold
themselves above reproach and to avoid the
society of young men who are not of the
highest moral character; also that young
people should be taught to marry in the Tem-
ple, that girls should not pay too much atten-
tion to dress, and when going to the Temple,
should wear plain white clothes, and after
having been through the Temple should
wear the garment properly, neither cut low
in neck or turned back in neck or sleeves.
	She also stated that Sister Emmeline B.
Wells, General Relief Society President, de-
sired that each Society provide endowment
clothing, and keep on hand to rent, to those
wishing to hire clothing for going to the
Temple, but it would be far better for each
one to have their own Temple clothes.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates conveyed to the sis-
ters the love of President Emmeline B.
Wells, she spoke on Prohibition and Word
of Wisdom. Advised the sisters to try and
conquer their own weaknesses and secretly
fight them out between themselves and their
God.
	After closing exercises, meeting ad-
journed until two o’clock.
	The afternoon session was held in the
Ferron meeting house, Bishop Newel K.
Beal taking charge. After the opening exer-
cises the time was given to the sisters to
proceed with their conference.
	Ex-President Mary A. Sorenson thought
there were three very expedient things to be
observed by Latter-day Saints, they were
obedience, prayer and tithing she also read
a letter from Anne Maria Allen, now absent
from home, working in the mission field.


Song by Golda Woodward and Emma
Judd, of Orangeville.
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke on being
obedient to parents and on being humhle
and not letting pride enter our hearts.
	Sister Susa Young Gates spoke on obedi-
ence in the home and to the Priesthood.
Spoke of young girls not wishing to go to
the Temple on account of being prevented
from following fashions. She gave some
beautiful illustrations of the blessings at-
tending Temple work. Spoke of the ne-
cessity of putting down whiskey and other
like evils, said to begin in the home and not
to allow cards or whiskey in the home. Said
do not sanction evil in any one, but be kind
to the erring and make home sweet and
pleasant as possible. Asked the sisters to
sustain the Exponent, as it was the organ
of the Relief Society.
	Stake President Lois Peter Oveson de-
sired parents to watch over their young peo-
ple that they be led in the right direction.
Denounced the practice of young folks go-
ing on excursions to the mountains with-
out their parents, or some older persons
with them.
	President Louisa Oveson hoped the sis-
ters would take the spirit of the conference
home with them. Thanked the people of
Ferron for their kindness and hospitality,
and Sisters Davis and Gates for the good
instructions they had given.
	Benediction by Stake Counselor A. E.
Wall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
			ENCE.
	The Conference of the General Relief So-
ciety was held in the Assembly Hall, Salt
Lake City, Utah, October 4, 1911. Pres-
ident Emmeline B. Wells presided.
	Morning session, 10 a. m.—After singing
“Come, come ye Saints.” opening prayer
was offered by Elder William Burton. Sing-
ing, “Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
A contralto solo was given by Mrs. Agnes
Olsen Thomas.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a lov-
ing and sympathetic welcome to all to the
conference, and encouraged all to continue
in the great work being accomplished by the
Relief Society, both at home and abroad.
	Mrs. Minerva R. Knowlton, of Davis
Stake, responded to the greeting, express-
ing the love and reverence felt by their ap-
preciation of her efforts in assisting local
and stake organizations.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang a
soprano solo, “O Loving Father.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was the next
speaker, speaking in appreciation of the
work being done by the members of the Re-
lief Society. Referred to the interest now
being taken in working for the dead, relat-
ing several instances in which this work had
been started because of lost ones coming
to make the request in dreams.
	Mrs. Rebecca Standring, President of Al-
pine Stake, gave a favorable report of the
work of the Relief Society in that stake.
Told of the unity of their Board and of the
good work being accomplished by the mis-
sionaries appointed to visit the delinquent
members and the young women and urge
their attendance at the meetings of the Re-
lief Society.
	Mrs. Sarah Fielding Burton, President of
Star Valley Stake, reported that in her stake

[Column 2]
there were many faithful workers, anxious
to make their work a success.
	President Rebecca Rawlins, represented
Benson Stake. She stated that great inter-
est was being manifested in the work. Mem-
bers are being appointed with the special
duty of visiting the aged and the sick, tak-
ing comfort, good cheer, and blessings with
them.
	Mrs. Mary Ellsworth, President of the
Relief Society of the Northwestern Mission
reported the condition of the work in Chi-
cago. She told of the success of the lady
missionaries in preaching the gospel. Their
humility and efforts make them worthy to
be numbered among Zion’s choicest daugh-
ters. Mrs. Ellsworth spoke of her visit to
the places of interest connected with the
early history of the Church, and the knowl-
edge of the truth of the gospel she obtained
from it.
	President E. B. Wells spoke of the
changes in the General Board and intro-
duced the new members: Mrs. Olive D.
Christensen, General Secretary, Mrs. Emma
A. Empey, General Treasurer, Mrs. Amy
B. Lyman, Assistant Secretary, Mrs. Susa
Y. Gates, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss
Sarah E. McLelland, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Caine Crismon, all of whom expressed their
appreciation of their call and their desire
to be of assistance in the work of the Re-
lief Society.
	A ladies’ trio was given by Mrs. Lizzie
Thomas Edward, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thom-
as, and Mrs. Bird, after which benediction
was pronounced by Bishop George Benson.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m.—Congregation
sang, “O Ye Mountains High!” Prayer
was offered by Mrs. Sarah J. Cannon. Prof.
Hugh Dougall sang a baritone solo, “The
Palms.”
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, President of
Pioneer Stake Relief Society, delivered an
address on “What the Present Age Means
to Women,” dealing with it from four im-
portant standpoints, the economic, the edu-
cational, the political and the spiritual. Mrs.
Cannon compared the methods of work used
formerly with those of today, when so many
inventions and mechanical devices have been
perfected, almost revolutionizing some lines
of woman’s labor. This lightening of work
has given to them time for development and
education.
	While in ancient times some women, such
as Miriam, Rebekah, Queen Esther, Hy-
patia, and others, led in thought, this was
not general. Even in our own country in
the early part of the nineteenth century
girls were not allowed in the public schools;
but barriers are now thrown down, and
women are admitted to state universities and
to many great colleges, and enjoy the priv-
ilege of entering professions.
	Reference was made to many unjust laws
referring to property rights of women,
which are gradually giving way for more
liberal laws, so that women now have prop-
erty and civil rights not known before.
	Mrs. Cannon spoke of the awakening of
women to their equality, and of the begin-
ning of the great organization for the bet-
terment of the condition of women and for
equal rights.
	Spiritually the age has done much for
women; in the Salvation Army where the
officers number both men and women, in
the Christian Science Church, the founder
being a woman, and in other churches. With

[Column 3]
the coming forth of the gospel in these days,
the Relief Society was organized, giving
women a part in the work of uplifting hu-
manity. The age means anything and
everything that women may make of it;
with faith in themselves, in their brothers,
in Christ, in the prophets of the Lord, all
things dreamed of may be attained.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne spoke upon,
“What the Age Means to Us,” in place of
Counselor Clarissa S. Willims, who was de-
tained at home on account of illness. Mrs.
Horne stated that what most impressed the
world is truth; truth the base upon which
we stand, truth as revealed by the prophets,
truth which manifests itself through relig-
ion, poetry, music, and art. The present
age has opened advantages of self unfold-
ment, and women are more widely awake
to their possibilities, and impress upon all
this lesson of self development. Women
should oppose slothfulness, backbiting, im-
purity, hypocrisy, foolishness, and turn to
those ready to help, the inspired, the poet,
the thoughtful, the industrious, and they
would be able to impress the world even
more than they do today.
	A soprano solo, “Fear not Ye O Israel,”
was given by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Miss Alice Louise Reynolds gave an ac-
count of her studies and travels abroad, de-
scribing Stratford on Avon in festive garb,
the decorations, flowers, the open air per-
formance of Shakespeare’s plays, and the
demonstrations in honor of the great poet.
Miss Reynolds also told of the great suf-
frage procession in London and the big
meeting in Albert Hall, and read extracts
from Mrs. Pankhurst’s speech at this time.
	President Emmeline B. Wells, in summar-
izing, spoke of the hardships endured to ac-
complish the building of the temples, and
urged the doing of work for the redemption
of the dead, and also in establishing truth,
integrity, and purity in place of the evils
existing today. This they can do, for wom-
en now have the ballot here and thus have
the power to vote for true, clean, and con-
scientious men as local officers, and can
give them moral support and good exam-
ples.
	The entire congregation rose to their feet
to express their approval of the stand for a
clean, moral government.
	After singing by a mixed quartet, “God
be with you till we meet again,” meeting
adjourned until April, 1912.
	Benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Romania B. Penrose.
		OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN,
					General Secretary


ODDS AND ENDS.
	Among the youngsters belonging to a
college settlement in a New England city
was one little girl who returned to her
humble home with glowing accounts of the
new teacher.
	“She’s a perfect lady,” exclaimed the en-
thusiastic youngster, “that’s what she is!”
	“How do you know?” asked the child’s
mother. You’ve only known her two days.”
	“It’s easy enough tellin’,” answered the
child. “I know she’s a perfect lady be-
cause she makes you feel polite all the
time.”—Lippincotts


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE
	The forty-second quarterly conference of
the Alpine Stake of Zion convened in the
Third Ward Chapel of American Fork,
July 21st, 1911. Morning session opened
by singing, “Come Let Us Anew.” Prayer
was led by President A. J. Evans. Continued
by singing, “Softly Beams the Sacred
Dawning.” Several of the Local Presi-
dents were called upon to report their re-
spective wards, after which President Re-
becca Standring gave a brief report of the
Alpine Stake. She said we are just as unit-
ed as we possibly can be; in unity there is
strength. We feel our inability, but we pray
continually for aid and strength to perform
this great work that has been placed upon
us. We are very pleased to welcome our
beloved President Emmeline B. Wells and
one of the General Board, Susa Y.
Gates here today. May the Lord give us
an outpouring of His Spirit in this Confer-
ence that we may have great cause to re-
joice is my prayer.
	Sister Gates was our first speaker,
taking three topics to speak upon, her first
The Saving of Wheat. The great signifi-
cance of this request or counsel given
to us by Our Prophet, Brigham Young,
has certainly developed our hearts. It is not
a selfish movement but purely for others.
Second topic, Collecting a Library for the
Sisters of the Relief Society. Commence
for a foundation with the Church Works.
We need to read more and enlighten our
minds; seek knowledge that we can impart
it to others. Third topic, The Exponent.
This is published for the Relief Society
and should be encouraged more by our
sisters. There is not one line written in this
woman’s paper but what is an uplift. Let
us encourage and sustain all good things in
our homes. I do humbly and sincerely
pray that God will bless our two venerable
presidents, Sisters Wells and Standring,
who are permitted to be with us today. I
am thankful for the privilege of hearing
their sweet voices again. It has been an
inspiration to me all my life to hear the
testimonies of the noble women of God.
Grant that they may live long to do good.
	“Only Remembered by what I have
Done,” was beautifully rendered by Brother
John H. Davis of the First Ward of Amer-
ican Fork. Sister LaPriel Gardner of Amer-
ican Fork, a returned missionary from the
Northern States, said: “I cannot give ex-
pression to the gratitude of my heart for
this blessed privilege of having gone forth
in my weakness and humility to proclaim
the truth to those who are in darkness.” She
made many beautiful comparisons from the
Bible testifying of the truthfulness of our
religion. “May we ever keep the teachings
of the Prophet Joseph Smith burning in our
breasts and that God lives, is my prayer.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, President of
the Relief Society throughout the world,
was our next speaker. She felt very
pleased to meet with her sisters in the Al-
pine Stake. “When I first came into this
house I felt the inspiration of the Holy
Spirit. It is here in rich abundance. I have
always loved the Relief Society since the
days of Nauvoo. Sister Eliza R. Snow
brought with her the records from Nauvoo
which proves that this association was never
discontinued since its first organization, she

[Column 2]
being the first secretary. It is a great priv-
ilege to belong to these associations. If
the sisters only realized the blessings de-
rived from them they would eagerly seek
to join. I am proud of these gatherings of
our sisters.” She remembered well an article
President Young once asked her to write
that it might be recorded pertaining to the
building granaries and various other duties.
He said to get counsel from the brethren in
the taking care of the grain. * * May the
Lord preserve and take care of each of us
that we may live to be examples to the
world is my prayer.
	Brother John H. Davis favored the Con-
ference with the beautiful hymn, “O My
Father.”
	Benediction by Bishop John R. Hindley.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing.
Prayer led by Brother William Southwick.
Continued by singing, “Now Let Us Re-
joice.” President A. J. Evans compli-
mented the sisters on their good looks.
Your faces bear evidence to me that you are
living lives of Latter-day Saints. Spoke to
us about keeping strict guard over our chil-
dren; see that they are not out late hours,
buggy riding unprotected. They are pre-
cious to us even more than some of us re-
alize. Sister Ruby Thornton, another of
our returned missionaries from the Northern
States, felt that she was blessed with many
great privileges and opportunities. Her re-
sponsibility in the Relief Society work in
the mission field had shown her the great
need of these organizations, it is wonder-
ful how the Lord will bless us when we
humble ourselves. The testimonies this
morning have given me a greater deter-
mination to live a good life, to do some of
the good things these sisters have done. I
want to be remembered for the good thingsdone in my life. Sister Susa Y. Gates said,
“These enthusiastic speakers, the lady mis-
sionaries carry with them the only Spirit
that can bring reform among the immoral-
ity of the world. Let us not forget the rev-
erence due the Priesthood and appreciate
our mission as women and never depreciate
being born a woman. It was said of Pres-
ident Young that he once predicted that no
man that ever faltered in the performance
of his duties will ever stand at the head of
this Church, and I feel that I can predict
the same of our women in aspiring to be-
come the elect lady. The Genealogical So-
ciety has been organized to help our people.
If you will set your hearts to do this work
you will find ample time to attend to your
family duties. This has been given to me
as a mission and to teach it to the people
and urge them to see to it, there is so much
of this work to be done and so few that are
doing it.
	A reading entitled “Only a Girl.” given
by Sister Justesen of the Third Ward of
American Fork. Singing by Sister Fern
Vance, “The Songs My Mother Used to
Sing.” We were privileged to have our
beloved President Sister Wells talk to us
again Her remarks continued on the days
of Nauvoo and of the lives of the great
men and women of our Church. There
are very few left who knew the Prophet.
The women who served and waited upon
him are few and far between. We honor
their memories. She eulogized the beauti-

[Column 3]
ful characters of Emma Smith, Mother
Whitney, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young,
and our late President Bathsheba W. Smith,
having been personally acquainted with
them all. We find very little written about
the women. They do not figure as largely
in history as do the men, but then good
deeds are recorded in the book of life. She
heard the Prophet Joseph deliver all of his
last sermons, remembered distinctly the time
that he was being guarded from his ene-
mies, the terrible cloud that hung over the
city the time of the martyrdom. I pray that
the Lord will bless you to work for the dead
as well as the living and live lives that are
worthy the name of Latter-day Saints.”
	President Standring bore testimony to
that which had been said. “I feel thankful
that my Heavenly Father has strengthened
me this day and that I have been permitted
to partake of the Spirit of this Conferenec.
I love this work and can safely say that I
have never opposed any principle of the
Gospel or any man in authority. I want
to use the power God has given me to do
and say the things that will exalt and purify
us all. May the Lord bless you, my dear
sisters, and spare your lives to meet again
in another Conference.”
	Sister E. J. T. Roberts thanked the Sis-
ters of American Fork for the nice lunch-
eon served in the building at the noon hour,
making it much easier for the sisters to at-
tend Conference.
	President Chipman rejoiced in the testi-
mony borne this day, for the (beautiful
singing, readings and everything that had
been said. Let us trust in the Lord and
He will guide us in our paths.
	After the closing hymn, benediction was
pronounced by Counselor Harriet Jacobs
and conference adjourned for three months.
				SINA CHIPMAN,
						Secretary.


HOLDS BIG JUBILEE.
	All suffragists within reach of New York
were summoned by the National Associa-
tion to take part in a monster celebration of
the California victory at Cooper Union Fri-
day night. It was arranged to display the
new six-star banner for the first time and
to introduce the new six-star buttons. Pop-
pies enough were ordered to make the hall
look like a real California mesa, arrange-
ments having meen made to have all the
suffrage organizations of New York and vi-
cinity represented on the platform by their
respective officers and banners, and a brass
band engaged. Invitations to speak were
accepted by Rev. Anna Howard Shaw,
president of the National Association Miss
Harriet May Mills, president of the New
York State Association Mrs. James Lees
Laidlaw, chairman of Manhattan borough
for the woman Suffrage party Mrs. Har-
riot Stanton Blatch, president of the Wom-
en’s Political Union; Mrs. Gerberding, and
Mrs. Mary Austin of California and Isaac
Stevens of Denver.
	Mrs. Lees, Mayor of Oldham in England,
has long been the most beloved citizen of
that place. She increased her popularity
still further during the recent labor troubles,
when she succeeded, by her personal exer-
tions in bringing about a settlement of a
strike which had tied up all the street cars
for five days.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

