The Five General Presidents of the Relief Society EMMA HALE SMITH. Emma Smith, the first Relief Society president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was born July 10. 1804, in Harmony, Susquehanna county, Pennsylvania. She was daughter of Isaac Hale, and became acquainted with Joseph Smith in 1827, while he was employed by Mr. Josiah Stoal of Chenango county, New York, in Harmony, Penn. Joseph writes, "During the time that I was thus employed, I was put to board with a Mr. Isaac Hale, of that place; it was there I first saw my wife (his daughter V, Emma Hale. On the 18th day of January, 1827, we were married, while I was yet employed in the service of Mr. Stoal. Owing to my continuing to assert that I had seen a vision, persecution still followed me, and my wife's father's family were very much opposed to our being married. I was, therefore, under the necessity of taking her elsewhere, so we went and were married at the house of Squire Turbull, in South Bainbridge, Chenango county, New York. Immediately after my marriage, Ileft Mr. Stoal's and went to my father's and farmed with them that season." Emma accepted the gospel as it had been revealed through her husband and was baptized by Oliver Cowdery, in Colesville, Broome county. New York, in June, 1830. After this she shared with her husband his joys and sorrows, and, together with him, passed through the persecutions of New York, Ohio, Missouri and Illinois. In a revelation given through Joseph Smith in July, 1830, she was called "an elect lady" and commanded to "expound Scriptures 128 and to exhort the Church." (Doc. 8z Gov., 25:7.) When the first female Relief Society of the Church was organized in Nauvoo, 111., March 17, 1842, she was chosen to stand at the head of the same as its president, a position which she filled with marked distinction as long as the society continued to hold meetings in that city. When the Saints were expelled from Illinois, in 1846. Emma Smith chose to remain at her home in Nauvoo, where she was married to Lewis C. Bidamon, Dec. 33. 1847, the Rev. William Haney, a Methodist clergyman performing the ceremony. Mr. Bidamon, who was generally known as Major Bidamon, made the Mansion House (which had been built as a hotel by Joseph the Prophet) his family home, and there he lived with Emma as his wife for about twenty-two years. About 1869 they took possession of a portion of the old Nauvoo House, a brick structure which was partly built by the Saints before they left Nauvoo, and which for many years had stood as a ruin on the river bank, reminding the visitor of Nauvoo's past glory. Major Bidamon completed a part of the house and moved his family into it, and that historic building now became Emma's home during the remainder of her days. While residing as Mrs. Bidamon in the Mansion House and later, as stated, in the Nauvoo House, Emma was frequently visited by relatives and friends from Utah. To many of these she seemed restless and unhappy, but she always manifested great interest in the friends of her first husband. Her dislike for Pres. Brigham Young is believed by many to have been the main cause of her refusal to gather with the Saints to the mountains; and it is asserted that she on the same ground, later on, influenced her sons to take the stand they did in regard to the so-called Re-organization. Sister Emma died in Nauvoo, April 30, 1879, and at the time of her demise the "Deseret News" said, editorially: "To the old members of the Church the deceased was well known, as a lady of more than ordinary intelligence and force of character. Her opposition to the doctrine of plural marriage which, however, she at first embraced, led to her departure from the faith of the gospel as revealed through her martyred husband. She chose to remain in Nauvoo when the Saints left for the west, and in consequence lost the honor and glory She was that the might mother have of crowned her brow seven children and as of "that all the elect four lady." sons of the Prophet Joseph, viz. : Joseph, the late leader of the sect called the Reorganized, Frederick, deceased, Alexander and David. It was mainly through her influence that they were led into the bypath wherein they have gone astray. She has gone beyond the veil to await the great day of accounts. There is no feeling of bitterness in the hearts of the Saints PRESIDENTS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 129 toward Sister Emma Smith, but only of pity and sorrow for the course she pursued. May her remains rest in peace." From Jenson's "Biographical Dictionary." Vol. I. ELIZA R. SNOW (SMITH). President Eliza R. Snow, the second General President of the Relief Society, was born of Puritan parents, in Becket, Berkshire county, Mass., Jan. 21, 1804. She inherited the graces, gifts, and powers of a literary ancestry, together with the somewhat austere dignity and rigid righteousness bequeathed by her Puritan birthright. Educated to the limited extent possible to girls in those early days, Miss Snow excelled in the domestic arts of needle work and straw work, but developing earth a strong poetic tendency. Her wise parents encouraged the cultivation of her unusual gifts. She wrote a requiem for the press on the simultaneous deaths of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, Independence day, 1826, which was much praised and which gave her entrance into the eastern literary fields. She suddenly found herself becoming famous. Among her learned and distinguished friends were Alexander Campbell, the noted scholar, theologian, and founder of the Campbellite sect, now called Christians. Sidney Rigdon was another of her early friends. Miss Snow accepted the gospel and was baptized April 5, 1835. She removed from Mantua, Portage county, Ohio, where her father lived, to Kirtland, Ohio. She boarded with the family of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Kirtland, and taught a select school for young ladies. She was. perhaps, the first woman school teacher in the Church. She cheerfully gave all her means to aid in the building of the Kirtland temple. When her parents accepted the gospel and came to Kirtland, her joy was full. Accompanying them in the spring of 1838, Eliza left Kirtland with the persecuted Saints, remained at Far West for a time to care for her brother Lorenzo, who was very sick at the home of Elder Rigdon. In 1840 she was in Quincy, but soon after removed to Nauvoo and again she was an inmate of the home of the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was sealed to that great prophet in the celestial order of marriage, June 29, 1842, being one of the first plural wives in this generation. When the Relief Society was organized on the 17th day of March, 1842, Eliza R. Snow was one of the first women chosen by the prophet to take part in that great organization. She was chosen as secretary and continued in that capacity until the martyrdom which, temporarily dissolved the Society. An incident of that occasion is interesting. She had no time- 130 piece, and the prophet noting that laid his own handsome gold watch on the table for her use, presenting it as a gift from himself. She gave that watch to Pres. Joseph F. Smith, whose son Joseph Fielding Smith, now owns it. The death of her husband prostrated Eliza with grief, and a lingering disease found a willing victim. For a number of years she was an invalid. She came with the second company of pioneers to the valley in 1847, and was treated with utmost tenderness and consideration by all in the company. Sister Eliza accepted a home under the roof of President Brigham Young, to whom she was married in name, in 1849, but she was still delicate and bed-ridden most of the time for several years. We quote from her sketch in Jenson's "Biographical Encyclopedia" :"When the Endowment House was dedicated in May, 1855, President Brigham Young asked Sister Eliza if she would work therein. go and In take answer charge of and preside she referred to her over feeble the condition sisters' of health, and expressed fears that she would be unable to do justice to so important a mission. President Young assured her that her health should improve and she should grow stronger, and have joy in the labors to which the Lord was calling her. Her faith in the words of the man of God caused her to accept the call, and his promises to her were immediately fulfilled; she held the sacred office then conferred upon her as long as ordinance work was done in the Endowment House. In 1866, when the organization of the Relief Society began to be made general through all the wards and stakes of Zion, Sister Eliza was set apart as president over the entire sisterhood of the Church. In that position she labored continuously for twenty-one years, but failing health caused her to remain quiet at home, but a short time previous to her death." She died in the Lion House, Dec. 5, 1887. She was buried — one of the three so honored — in the private enclosure on the hillside where Brigham Young himself lies. Words are inadequate to portray the influence exercised by this majestic woman upon the history of the Church. For many, many years she was the ensample of courage, loyalty, faith, reverence, possessing a wonderful personality, with a broad vision which included all public possibilities of the womanhood of this Church. She was, perhaps, the greatest woman organizer this Church or this generation produced. All outgrowths of the Relief Society were fostered if not inspired and instituted through her beneficent and unselfish labor, yet she took no honor to herself. Above every quality she possessed obedience to the counsel of the Priesthood, which glowed like a hidden lamp in her soul, radiating to the utmost PRESIDENTS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 131 bounds of the stakes and wards of a Church who loved her teachings, who sang her songs, and who blessed her memory daily on the altar of domestic prayer and praise. Without child herself, she mothered the children of all the people. Severe to her own stern soul, she was tenderness and sympathy itself to the sick, the wayward, the poor, or the weak in faith, nursing everywhere when the sick were without help, and clothing the dead with her own skillful yet pitiful hands. While all the Relief Society women will remember her as their great and unsurpassed leader, a whole people recall her best through her minstrelsy and her literary genius. Her matchless hymn, "Oh My Father!" is the epic of a sex and of a great people. Every teaching of the gospel, all its fundamental truths, were motifs for her poetic harp, which gave forth such divine harmonies that they will forever be a part of our public worship as well as of the intimate home life of God's people in latter days. The hymn book is a silent and eternal tribute to her powers, her gifts, and her intelligence. Best of all her gifts was her selfless immolation upon the altar of her sex, nay, of her Savior! The prophet was her head, her earthly inspiration, and is now her eternal companion. The study of her life will renew a spring of faith and hope in the heart of any woman. ZINA D. H. YOUNG. Zina D. H. Young, the third general president of the Relief Society, was born Jan. 31, 1821, in Watertown, Jefferson county. New York. She was of fine New England stock, her father being William Huntington, of the famous Huntington family, and her mother, who was Zina Raker, was likewise of Pilgrim inheritance. When the gospel reached Watertown, in 1835, the Huntington family accepted of the message and Zina was baptized by the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, August 1, 1835. Soon after this they removed to Kirtland. Sister Zina was gifted greatly in tongues and interpretation of tongues. On one occasion, in the Kirtland temple, she heard a whole choir of angels singing, till the house seemed filled with unnumbered voices. She was a member of the Kirtland Temple Choir at the wonderful occasion when the Spirit of God filled the house like a mighty rushing wind. Zina's mother died from fatigue and privation in Nauvoo, July 8, 1839. Zina was married in Nauvoo and had two sons, Zebulon and Chariton, but the union was not a happy one, and 132 she was separated from her husband. She was sealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, October 27, 1841. In one of the early meetings of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, Sister Zina became a member and received her blessings and endowments in the Nauvoo temple. She was with the Saints who left Nauvoo after the martyrdom of the Prophets Joseph and Hyrum, and crossed the Mississippi on the ice, February 9, 1846. She was married to President Brigham Young in Winter quarters and accompanied his family in 1848 to the valley. On April 3, 1850, her treasured daughter, Zina, was born. Nothing could exceed the close and happy associations of these two Zinas, who were both mother and daughter, sister and sister, companion and friend. When the general Relief Society movement was undertaken by Sister Eliza R. Snow, President Young suggested Sister Zina to assist Sister Snow with other sisters in this great task. When the General Board was formed with Sister Snow as the head of the Women's Relief Society throughout the Church, in June, 1880, Sister Zina was chosen as her first counselor. She traveled with Sister Snow and shared in her labors and responsibilities. After the death of Sister Snow, on December 5, 1887, Zina D. Young was appointed as general president of the Society. Sister Young was closely identified with the statewide movement in sericulture. She raised cocoons, attending them with her own hands, and had charge of the large coronary and mulberry orchard of her husband. President Young, during the late 60's and early 70's. When the Silk Association was* organized, she was chosen as president of that society. Sister Young made several trips abroad. She went to the Sandwich Islands, in 1879. Sister Young was the first matron of the women workers of the Salt Lake temple, which position she occupied until her death. She visited and labored in the other temples, as her travels led her from place to place. She died at her home in Salt Lake City, August 28, 1901. Zina D. PI. Young was the embodiment of faith, hope and charity, and was herself without guile. She believed the best of every one with whom she ever came in contact. She was beloved by a whole people, because she loved them first. Her love was expressed in lavish abandon of her own interest and her means. To do good was her waking thought, to bind up a broken heart was her evening benediction. Sweetness and sympathy radiated from her presence while trusting faith shone around her like an aura of heavenly glow. There were "ladies" in those days, and surely none were PRESIDENTS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 133 more refined, more exquisitely courteous than this daughter of English earls and "Mormon" Puritans. Where she is now, in heaven, there is joy, as always there was peace where ever she was when upon the earth. BATHSHEBA WILSON SMITH. The fourth general president of the Relief Society was Mrs. Bathsheba Wilson Smith, born of right and by inheritance, to the group of leading heroines and heroic leaders, who blazed the way and who marked the path for later generations of their sex to follow after. Sister Smith was born in Shinnsten, Harrison county, West Mrginia. As a girl Mrs. Smith was famous for her love of outside pastimes. She was a noted horseback rider. She was always religiously inclined, not only showing the virtues of a Christian character, but domestic duties appealed greatly to her from her earliest youth. The needle and loom, the bake-skillet, and later the cook stove, were the primitive tools with which she fashioned beauty or wrought homely volumes of domestic lore. She was an early convert to the Church and was baptized August 21, 1837. in her own home town. She emigrated with her family to Missouri, but found herself a part of that fleeing people who were driven from Missouri and who finally met partial extinction at the Haun's mill massacre. Her shrinking eyes beheld the violent death of David W. Patten, slain by the mob, and saw on that same day thousands of mobbers, screaming dreadful threats against the Prophet Joseph and yelling with savage glee when he and his brother Hyrum were taken into their camp. What an introduction for an innocent, refined girl to the Church. In the spring of 1840 Sister Bathsheba removed with her family to Nauvoo, and on July 25. 1841, she was married to the cousin of the Prophet Joseph, George A. Smith, who was then the youngest member of the Twelve Apostles. On July 7, 1842, Sister Smith gave birth to her only son, George Albert. In the fall of 1843. Apostle George A. Smith and his wife Bathsheba received their endowments under the hands of the Prophet Joseph Smith and were united in the bonds of celestial marriage. Naturally, Sister Smith was intimately acquainted with the prophet and his whole family. She often remarked in later years, that when her husband died she told him she wanted to go with him, but he replied, "No, you must stay here and bear testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith." which mission she certainly fulfilled. Just a few days after the martyrdom, on the 14th of Aug- 134 ust, 1844, a daughter was born, whom they named Bathsheba; and shortly after this Sister Bathsheba gave to her husband several wives with the following beautiful expression of her feelings on that occasion: "Being proud of my husband and loving him very much, knowing him to be a man of God, and having a testimony that what I had done was acceptable to my Father in heaven, I was as happy as I knew how to be." In 1846, Sister Smith left Nauvoo with the people and reached the valley in 1849. March, 1850, Sister Bathsheba moved into her own home. In 1860 occurred the greatest tragedy in the home-life of this noble woman. Her only son was sent on a mission to the Maqundians. On his way to the Navajo Reservation, on November 2, 1860, after he had traveled about seven hundred miles he was killed by the savage Navajo Indians. His bones were brought home but his loving mother never became quite reconciled to his loss. The death of her husband, in 1876, was a great shock to Sister Smith, but the natural poise and calm deliberation of her character, permitted her to recover and take up again the shattered threads of her life. Sister Smith was one of the charter members of the Relief Society, organized March 17, 1842. She was present on the historic occasion and was among the first to take up active work in Utah, in the new movement made during the 60's She officiated as priestess in the Nauvoo temple; acted as first counselor to President Rachel Grant in the Relief Society of the Thirteenth ward. Salt Lake City, for many years; was a counselor to Mary I. Home in the General Retrenchment Association in the Fourteenth ward, and acted as treasurer of the Relief Society of the Salt Lake stake. She also officiated in the holy ordinances of the Endowment House, in Salt Lake City, for many years, and was one of the board of directors in the Deseret Hospital. In the Seventeenth ward, where she was located several years later, she acted for a long time as treasurer of the ward Relief Society and subsequently as president of the organization. In 1887, when Sister Zina D. H. Young became president of all the Relief Societies in the Church, Sister Bathsheba was chosen as her second counselor, which position she filled until Sister Young's death. At a meeting of the First Presidency and the Apostles, held in the Temple, Salt Lake City, October 31, 1901, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was chosen to act as president of the Relief Societies in all the world. Sister Bathsheba was an ordinance worker in the Logan temple for several years, and when the Salt Lake temple was completed, in 1893, she was chosen as one of the workers in that sacred edifice. June 30, 1893, Pres. Lorenzo Snow and PRESIDENTS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 135 his assistants appointed and set apart Sister Zina D. H. Young to take charge of the woman's department in the Salt Lake temple, with Bathsheba W. Smith as her first and Minnie J. Snow as her second assistant. Owing to the death of Sister Young in 1901, it fell to the lot of Sister Bathsheba to preside over the sisters in the temple, a position which she occupied until her death in 1910. President Bathsheba W. Smith was a remarkable woman in many ways. Her main was so calm, was so deliberate, her speech was so pleasant and her manner so genial, that some thought her weak; on the contrary, she had a powerful will and a determined spirit. Few are there who could surpass her in prudence, sanity or purpose. A fine loyalty to the priesthood, with a whimsical humor, which permitted her to see things in their true relation without much bias and certainly without personal resentment, kept her spirit sweet and her mind sound. She moved on her way with lovely dignity that marked her as one of the greatest women of the Church, of the period, and of the world. EMMELINE B. WELLS. Our present president of the General Board of the Relief Society, Mrs. Emmeline B. Woodward Wells, is the fifth president of this great organization. Herself of original American and New England inheritance, she represents the true New England woman at her best. Mrs. Wells was born on leap year, February 29, 1828, at Petersham, Worchester Co., Massachusetts. She is the daughter of David Woodward and Dieadama Hare. Her fathers fought in the Revolutionary War and were of noble extraction. She early developed literary gifts and was made a pet of in the family because of her charm and her somewhat tender physical personality. She became a primary school teacher in those primitive times at the age of fifteen, having the little children under her care at certain periods, in her home town and surrounding places. She was baptized on March 1, 1842, when away from home attending a select school for girls. Much excitement prevailed over the baptism performed at this period and the young girl was threatened by her guardian and the town authorities with examination to discover if she was coerced into her baptism, but she had resolved to dedicate her life to the work she had undertaken. She married Thomas Harvey Harris, July 28, 1843, being scarcely sixteen years old. In 1844 she went with her husband and his family to join the Saints in Nauvoo. She often relates at the present day the vivid emotion experienced by her at the first sight of the towering majesty of the 136 Prophet Joseph Smith, whom she saw upon the landing platform at the river's edge as the boat drew up to Nauvoo. She was thrilled by his very handshake, and has often testified to the electric quality of the testimony she received at this time. She saw considerable of the prophet during the few months which intervened between her arrival there and the martyrdom. She was present on that wondrous occasion in the grove meeting, held August 8, 1844, when the mantle of Joseph fell upon Brigham in the eyes of the assembled Saints. Sister Emmeline gave birth to a beautiful little boy, named Eugene Henri Harris, on September 6, 1844, the shock prostrating the child mother and almost costing her her life. Her husband left her the next month, November 16, 1844, and for some mysterious reason, never returned. She was sealed to Bishop Newel K. Whitney and came to the valley in 1848. They camped on the site now occupied by the L. D. S. U., on November 2, 1848. She gave birth to a daughter, Isabel Modelena, on August 18, 1848. Two years later, 1850, another daughter, Melvina Caroline, was born. Several weeks later Bishop Whitney died leaving his child widow with two babes. The friend of her early and later life was the first wife of the bishop, that great woman and pioneer,