A Message to Mothers Ida Smoot Dusenberry. "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." History records no period since the coming of the world's savior when thoughtful and earnest minds were so seriously and reflectively turned to the subject of public virtue. The recent war brought out statistics and is still unearthing realities that to the pessimistic mind seem hopeless, but those who see in the surging masses of humanity one of the varying phases of a social problem, and are still clinging to the faith of predominating good, see some bright rays of light, even in the present widespread darkness. The question, "Am I my brothers keeper?" now universally affirmatively answered, makes us realize that the scales of life weigh accurately and true, and the weight of virtue, integrity, and honesty must outbalance the vices of life. This is only done by persistent, patient, and prayerful effort. No mother can hope for a final reward who has not realized the importance of an early beginning, from the first moment that she takes the nestling little creature, potentially perfect, into her arms, it is she who decides which his one predominating force shall be, physical or intellectual. It is now, the present moment, she stands with her child at the parting of the roads, the one leading to mastery and self-control, the other selfishness and self-indulgence. The roads grow wider as the years pass by. If her life has been weighed in the balance of humility, wisdom, and knowledge, she will have power to spread a halo of protection around this active, plunging, developing soul. I know of no other virtues that will steer such active feet along the road that leads to eternal life. Ignorance is the one universal crime which unrelentingly wreaks vengeance upon the innocent and helpless. I see in fancy the thousands and tens of thousands of children marching in a parental ignorance parade, carrying banners of innumerable physical, moral, spiritual and intellectual weaknesses, with no other goal than dependence and oftentimes abuse. We should reverently bow our heads and pray for strength to do, and sufficient light to see that its brightness may be a constant radiation of hope and courage to others. We have spoken of physical, intellectual, and moral growth and development, only for the purpose of segregating and classifying. They are all so closely allied that the abuse 142 or injury of one immediately and persistently reacts upon the other. Oftentimes when parents see the result of their lack of wisdom and their misdirection, hereditary tendencies have been a very convenient explanation, little realizing that many and conflicting are the educational opinions regarding the trend and scope of heredity in connection to the inclinations of life. It is generally conceded that on account of the combination of ancestral traits and present artificial conditions working upon each other, there is little chance for more than inherited leaning or predisposition which, lacking direction, give possibilities leading to a definite end. There is, however, one thing that civilization should foster and society demand, and that is the inheritance of a clean and pure birth, this can never come from any double standard of morals. Inferring that the girl is clean and pure in thought and life, she should choose a husband no less pure in every respect than she wishes her children to become. When accidental and unwelcome babies become memories of darker ages, moral strength and physical vigor will supplant thousands of physical and moral weaklings. When a belief that the marriage vow ever changed impurity into purity and that a ceremony eliminates the necessity of self-control and conquered desires, can be changed to the importance of unselfishness and moral strength, in thousands of homes will live brighter and healthier children, stronger and happier mothers. Parents must learn to begin with the early hours of child life to avoid stimulation, excess in appetite, or physical irritation. Any artificial appetite is the beginning of distemper, disease, and a general disturbance of natural proportions. False feeding engenders false appetite, extending a train of evils as long and lasting as life itself. Great care should be exercised from the time of the birth of the child that bodily sensations of every kind do not become attractive. He should be kept scrupulously clean; to avoid irritation, the child should be clothed day and night in such a way that there can be no physical discomfort. As the child grows older, surrounding conditions should be so carefully watched that the little hands are not tempted to form impure habits. Industrial schools, detention homes, and mental hospitals hold many examples of parental indifference to the ultimate outcome of such a condition. God created us in his own image, and we know that he is not the creator of anything which is not in itself spotlessly pure. He created sex and commanded reproduction; hence, from the first, all parts of the body should be considered A MESSAGE TO MOTHERS 143 equally honorable. All childish inquiries on delicate matters should be truthfully answered, using care that information does not go beyond the demand or the capacity to understand. Purity of heart is not ignorance. To fight sin and impurity we must recognize its power and have a knowledge of its scope and insidious dynamic force. To deceive ourselves with the assurance that adolescence is the first stage offering necessity for parental guidance, in moral and physical virtue, is to loose the opportunity of building the bridge over which the child may walk with assurance and safety in the years which will be brought with more numerous and varied temptations than that of any period in life. NEW BOOK OF CHILDREN'S STORIES. The famous poet, author, and educator, Dr. James L. Hughes, of Toronto, Canada, has just published one of the most delightful books ever offered to innocent childhood. It is called "Childhood's Paradise and Musings." The publishers are The Ryerson Press, Toronto, Canada. Filled with simple, pellucid appeals to childhood memories and with charming pictures, the verses flow over the pages with a rhythm and music that is reminiscent of a mountain stream, now shadowed by a boulder, again flashing under sun-lit spaces, yet anyways clear, sparkling and refreshing. We recommend the to all our friends. TRUST. Helen KimballI. Origin. I once saw a life all shattered with woe, A future left dark as the night. But ah! the brave soul seemed radiant with hope, Her face still was gloriously bright; I ne'er can forget the reverence I felt For trust that knew all n. would come right. Then, why should we fear the future so grim, Though even our heart-strings be torn. Just And know rest in that assurance all ills that can be God’s borne, at the helm, And trust in the infinite love of our God Who ne'er will leave us here forlorn.