THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 155 Centennial of the Vision. The early spring months marks the centennial, or hundredth anniversary, of the marvelous vision vouchsafed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the grove, at Palmyra. The Church authorities expect to have memorial services, both at the April conference and at Palmyra, later. The Relief Society will also signalize this event in the program for our general conference in April. The present time itself is fraught with great significance for the women of this people, for the Church itself and for the world. First Women's Bank. The first woman's bank in Tennessee, probably in the world, was established in Clarksville, Tennessee, with the capital stock of $15,000. The president is the wife of the town physician, and the cashier, the wife of the county attorney. Every office and position in the bank will be filled by a woman and they announce "the special function of the bank is to afford financial conveniences to women." Small savings account will be popularized by this bank. Women Featured in the Coming Campaign. Both Republican and Democratic parties are featuring women in the coming campaigns. Utah received a visit from the Republican National Committee on Jan. 10, 1920, accompanied by Miss Mary Garret Hay of New York, who is chairman of the National Executive Committee on the woman's division. Miss Hay is a famous old time worker in suffrage and was in Utah twenty years ago in the interests of that campaign. She had many happy reminiscences of Utah women and was especially enthusiastic for the return of Senator Reed Smoot, whom she declared had done more than any other man in Congress for the cause of women's suffrage. She added "He never fails, he looks after your interests, and he has a nation viewpoint, as well, and looks after the interests of other states and of women everywhere." Our Mrs. Janette A. Hyde went to Denver with Mrs. Davis, to represent the Utah Republican women at the intermountain Republican meeting held there on Jan. 6, 1920. Babies in Denver Church Cared for While Mothers Are at Church. A "creche," under the care of a trained kindergarten teacher, has been established at Trinity Methodist church in Denver, for the convenience of mothers who desire to attend 156 divine services on Sunday and who have no one to care for their children at home. New York has Barred Women from Juries. Justice Lazarsky, evidently a Russian Jew, refused the injunction on Jan. 7, to compel the commissioner of juries, of Brooklyn, to include women in making up jury lists. His only excuse was precedent. Women Prisoners not to be Whipped. The shocking practice of whipping fallen women or dissolute female characters, which has been practiced in Atlanta, Georgia, was ordered discontinued, Jan. 21, after a public hearing brought by the Atlanta Humane Society. Women have been strapped to a contrivance resembling a chair and flogged unmercifully. The same committee is now endeavoring to have the practice of flogging male prisoners also discontinued. Did somebody say this was an enlightened age, and that such practices were done away with long ago? Women Physicians. Not all of the women have been crowded out of the medical profession, at least in some of the eastern states. Mrs. A. C. Ivy, who before marriage was Emma Kohman, of the University of Chicago, told members of the Federation of American Societies for Experiment Biology, at the congress held in Boston in December, how she came to discover the cause of "War Edema." This disease, also called "war dropsy" and "hunger edema", caused illness and death of many thousands in Russia, Germany, Poland, and France. It was thought to be due to lack of fats in the diet. Experiments revealed that it was due to lack of protein. The results were the more important in that scientists had generally believed that proteins tended to increase rather than cure edema. Mrs. Ivy found edema was produced in rats deprived of proteins and cured by supplying them with this food principle. Dr. Anna W. Williams, on Influenza. Another eminent woman physician of the New York Board of Health in discussing a recent paper read by Dr. T. M. Rivers of the Johns Hopkins Hospital on "What is Influenza?" at the same meeting of the Society of American Bacteriologists, held in Boston the last week in December, objected to a former paper on the ground that 400 influenza strains among animals had been studied in New York and no large groups had been found among them. She claimed there THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 157 was no relationship among them serologically. Dr. Blake said that the bacilli must be grouped by cultural tests. "Let us do some honest-to-goodness work," he said, "and forget that it causes epidemics." \Mien doctors disagree. Reports from the Children's Bureau. The Children's Bureau in Washington has been studying the rights of children born out of wedlock. Attention is called in this report to the fact that our legal provisions for the support of the child born out of wedlock are inadequate, the payments prescribed are often too low, and in most of the States the period of support is too brief, sometimes reaching only to the child's 10th or 12th year. In one State only a single payment of $50 is required, in another $90, distributed over three years is required. The two most liberal states have allowances that total, in one case, $2,750 for the first 18 years of the child's life; and in the other, $1,750 for the first 11 years of the child's life. Physical conditions for working children are encouraging the attention of the Children's Bureau. Tests in large manufacturing centers prove the injurious effect of early confined labor on the undeveloped bodies of children. Utah has little of this problem. Our children are kept in school and live in as ideal conditions as any children in the world.