DEE HOSPITAL 185 DEE HOSPITAL—NURSE WORK The Latter-day Saints, always leading out in that which is great and good, have two hospitals with the most modern equipment, the best of service, and finest of officials to be found in the west. The career of a nurse is one which many of our girls might rightfully choose for the unlimited good they can do and for their advancement and development. Not only may our girls get hospital training in the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City, but also in the Thomas Dee Memorial Hospital in Ogden. In the year 1913, the Thomas D. Dee Memorial Hospital at Ogden, Utah, was taken over by the Church of Jesus Christ The Dee Nurses Home, Ogden. of Latter-day Saints. Since that time extensive improvements have been made, including the erection of a Nurses' Home, which has every convenience looking toward the comfort of those in training. The Church has now under way the erection of a wing which will practically double the capacity of this institution. Graduate nurses are in charge and a course of training conforming to that adopted in the largest and best institutions in the United States is being given. The course covers a period of three years. Young ladies over the age of eighteen, of good moral character who have had at least one year's high school training, are eligible to take this course. Besides being given this training, students are comfort- 186 ably housed and given their board. Also receive $8.00 a month. In past years graduates have had no difficulty in finding steady employment at a good salary, and the future holds out even greater promises than the past. The Thomas D. Lee Hospital Training School is now receiving applications from those who wish to take this course. Its officers are: W. H. Wattis, president; Bishop David A. Smith, vice president; David O. McKay, L. W. Shurtliff, James Wotherspoon, Dr. R. S. Joyce, Mrs. Thomas D. Dee, honorary member. Directors: Maud D. Porter, secretary and treasurer; Bishop W. W. Rawson, superintendent; Miss Stella Peterson, R. N., superintendent of nurses. Applications and booklets furnished upon request. HOME AND LOVE. Mrs. Parley Nelson. Sometimes I go a-journeying Far from the place where loved ones dwell. I long to jostle with the throng, New ventures seek, o'er hill and dell, But soon the home ties call to me, My chastened heart obeys the call: Whatever else the world may give, A home and love, are best of all. The Office I WILL PURCHASE THE FOLLOWING COPIES OF THE I At 20c per copy. All 1919 issues: I Seven January numbers. Six April numbers. I Seven June numbers. Five July numbers. I Five August numbers. Seven September numbers. I Six October numbers. I Mail to j 29 Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah THE SPRING QUARTER AT THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Opens March 8 This presents an excellent opportunity to begin or continue your College career. Collegiate and Vocational courses open in every department in the Institution. For detailed information address the President's Office, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. 1 "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" ce Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders I p. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City STATE Gospel Doctrine NATIONAL Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. BANK 1 Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood The oMcer* arcnoranis have adopted GOSPEL always find I doctrine: as a text for class meet customizers study for the next two years. It pontine 700 paes, with a baslaea* place photogravures Frontispiece them. I antoeraph of President Smith. OFFICERS I Handsome bound In cloth, 91-BO postpaid. Heber J. Grant, President 1 Get 15c. the Gilde" so with it. Charles W. Nlbley, Vice President Price William R. Wallace, Vice President DESEUIET NEWS BOOK STORE L Henry T. McEwan, V. Pres. and Cash. MAIN STREET Alvin C. Strong,