Items About Women
Chinese Women Make Rapid Strides
Central China has now granted women's suffrage, and a woman?Wong Chang-Koo?sits in the parliament of Central China. The women of Central China worked for twenty years for their vote. An active campaign for equal suffrage is now in progress in Southern China and women are to introduce in the next national parliament, a bill for equal suffrage, equal right to education, equality with men before the law, prohibition of slave selling, and improved marriage laws. The women of India are also asking for equal right to education and equal suffrage; evidently the Oriental woman has caught the spirit of her sister in the Occident.
Police Hotel for Accommodation of Travelers
Mrs. May Sullivan, who walked from Wyoming to Maine summer resorts, was the first person to accept the hospitality of the New Rochelle Police Department which recently began furnishing accommodations for the night to women travelers and visiting officials of cities unable to obtain proper hotel quarters. On the top floor of the New Rochelle police headquarters Commissioner Tubbs has arranged a corridor of rooms with all the conveniences of a modern hotel. Owing to the limited number of hotels in the city it was a nightly occurrence for a traveler to approach the desk lieutenant and inquire where accommodations could be obtained. Most of these requests were made by women, and finally Sergeant Robert McMillin and Patrolman Martin Larkin evolved the idea of transforming the upper unoccupied floors of headquarters into sleeping quarters for each applicant. The two policemen were encouraged by Commissioner Tubbs. The Civic League also lent its aid, and as a result McMillin and Larkin have established the first police hotel in the United States, where weary travelers are accommodated at night, free of charge, as a matter of public convenience and not for violation of the law. The furnishings of the suites were presented by the Civic League and they were installed by Mrs. Dudley Harcourt Goldsmith, president, and Mrs. Benjamin B. Badeau, secretary of the organization. The rooms are large and airy. With a view of Long Island Sound and New Rochelle harbor. They are tastefully decorated and furnished with white dressers with large mirrors, cushioned chairs and beds with snowy white blankets.
Mrs. Sullivan, leaving headquarters, after spending the night, said, "that it was the finest and best hotel she had found."
Women in Professional Life
Recent statistics in the United States show that one out of every thirty of the editorials published are written by women. On a given Sunday during the summer it was reported that 170 of the sermons were preached by women. Women are making about one plea in the courts out of every two hundred, while ninety per cent of the education of the children of the United States is in the hands of women. About eleven million women are at the present time earning their livelihood in one way or another.
Woman Drafts State Budget Bill
One of the outstanding achievements of women of recent date is that of Mrs. Nellie Brewer Pierce, of Los Angeles, who is recognized as the author of the Budget Bill, aimed at state economy, which has the support of the Governor of California.
Women Culpable with Husbands
A judge at Muskegon, Michigan, declares that a wife who allows liquor to be manufactured or sold in her home, by her husband, must suffer the penalty. "I know from experience, no married man can violate the law unless his wife consents in such cases," he said. "It is time we forgot sympathy and enforced the law equally to man and wife." And he instructed the officers to arrest the women as well as the husbands. "Pleas of poverty will not be considered in the future," added the judge, "it is time we quit encouraging the breeding and rearing of law violators, which children in such homes will be."
Deaf and Dumb Women Preferred
Sidney Smith, proprietor of one of Chicago's big laundries, not long ago, inserted in the newspaper a novel advertisement in which he sought deaf and dumb women as employees in his establishment. He made it clear that he was not operating a charitable institution?that he wanted workers. "I am not in business for my health," said Mr. Smith; "the reason I am advertising for deaf and dumb women is because they do not waste their time and gossip about everything under the sun except suds."
"But deaf and dumb women can talk with their hands," it was suggested.
"The moment they do they have to stop work altogether so they seldom try it," he replied. "I am tired to death of the endless clatter and clack of tongues and the consequent slowing down of business. I have two deaf and dumb women already and they stick to their work. One is worth two of the other magpies."
The Girl Laureate
The poet laureate of Oklahoma has attracted a good deal of attention since her appointment by the governor of that state. In a recent interview given in New York at the McAlpin Hotel, Miss McDougal said that she would favor more music, art and poetry in the schools even if some other branches of the curriculum had to be cut or revised.
Mrs.