The Gospel to the Lamanites
The following letter was written by Mrs. Lucy Wright Snow to an Indian princess, who visited Royal Oak high school in Michigan, one day last spring. We feel sure our readers will be interested in the letter. We are especially glad to be able to publish it this year, as this is a Book of Mormon year, because of the recent centenary of the appearance of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Dear Princess Neawanna:?
I was indeed disappointed that you were so suddenly called to Grand Rapids on the eve of your coming to our home. I had invited a party of Royal Oak's best educators to be present to hear you speak on the subject most dear to your heart?"The American Indian"?but my faith is that you will return to Detroit and that we shall have another opportunity to speak of the record of your people which I possess.
I take delight in confirming your testimony that you are not of the lost tribes by the following quotation from the record: "For behold, I shall speak unto the Jews and they shall write it; [the Bible which contains the record of the Jews] and I shall also speak unto the Nephites and they shall write it; [the Nephite record contains the record of your people] and I shall speak unto the other tribes of the house of Israel which I have led away, and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto all nations of the earth and they shall write it."
I will also quote from the record concerning your lineage as follows: "Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God promised unto me [Nephi] that these things which I write shall be kept and preserved, and handed down unto thy seed, from generation to generation that the promise may be fulfilled unto Joseph, that his seed should never perish so long as the earth should stand." (This Joseph was none other than he who was sold into Egypt, and we are of his seed.)
Your people were given a promise that they should never become extinct as follows: "Nevertheless thou beholdest that the Gentiles [the United States] who have gone forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of God above all other nations upon the face of the land which is choice above all other lands, which is the land that the Lord God hath covenanted with thy father, that his seed should have the land of their inheritance, wherefore thou seest that the Lord God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed which are among thy brethren, neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the seed of thy brethren." (The Indians.)
Dear Princess, I am pleased that our acquaintance was made possible by your coming to the Royal Oak's high school and that my daughter felt impelled to make an appointment for us and that you also were inspired with a desire to meet me, and when you told me that you were doing the educational work you are engaged in simply because you felt impelled and inspired to do it I felt sure that the truths which I have written should be in your possession, and they will indeed enhance your scope of vision in your chosen work, in behalf of your people, and because you have expressed a desire to see the record, I invite you to come to me if possible and I will give it to you myself, or if this is impossible, let me know and I shall send it to you. Meanwhile, be encouraged in your work, pray to the Great Spirit you know, who is the Lord God, for further enlightenment and he will bless you for your faith and effort.