Guide Lessons for April
LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in April)
A. The Tares.
The Text: "The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field: but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. But when the blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? From whence then hath it tares? He said unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? But he said Nay; lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest; and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn." (Matthew 13:24-30.)
The Explanation: Again, as with the other parables of the Savior, even the disciples were not sure as to the meaning of the tares, so they sought information from the author, whose explanation is recorded in Matthew 13:37-43.
Some Great Lessons Taught: (a) That through the lack of wide-awakeness in good men who should guard against the introduction of evil, the servants of satan get a foothold in the kingdom. (b) That the untimely expulsion of evil-doers may do more damage than good, because of the social and other ties which interlace their lives with the lives of the good. (c) That there will come a day when conditions will be ripe for a safe and effectual elimination of the evil-doer, and the salvation of the righteous: the former bound together for destruction, the angels of consistency and justice fastening them together with bands of selfishness and sin and casting them into the flames of a conscience that burns as long as there is a recognized end to feed it.
Special Application: I am the Tare as far as I share The fruits of satan's temptation; I am the Wheat as fast as I meet Requirements for Jesus' salvation.
I must not sleep, but watch must keep, Lest the enemy sow in my heart The doubt and the sin that canker within, And leave me from heaven apart.
I must forbear to judge when and where Vengeance shall fall on the earth; Just cling to the rod, Leave the issue with God, Who'll save according to worth.
B. The Mustard Seed.
The Text: "The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field: which indeed is the least of all seeds: but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof." (Matt. 13:31-32; Mark 4:30-32; Luke 13:18-19.)
The Purposes: This parable had at least three objectives: First, to correct the idea prevalent among the Jews that the kingdom was to come to them as a sudden manifestation of superhuman deliverance and exaltation to power. Second, to teach that the kingdom of heaven on earth is a growth from a Divine planting. Third, to proclaim that the Christ-life with small and derided beginning would become the triumphant life.
Why He chose the mustard plant for a center of interest: "We are all familiar with the mustard-plant of our own country. It is not the smallest, nor indeed the largest, of our herbs or shrubs; still, its proportions are comparatively diminutive; it is nothing like a
tree. The Savior here is referring his hearers, - not to the plant with which we are acquainted, but to the khordal, or Salvadora persica?the same as the khayal found in the Himalayas. This, though small in germ, does grow into a tree in which birds do nestle. And its seeds resemble those of our mustard in taste. It is noticed by travelers as growing abundantly on the shores of that very lake from which Jesus was teaching. And its seed is used in the Talmud as an image of extreme littleness; small as a mustard-seed' was a common saying. And yet the tree was noted as large. "There was a stalk of mustard in Sichem (writes one) -whence sprang three branches, one of which was large enough to cover the shed of a potter.' 'There was a stem of mustard (writes another) in my field, into which I used to climb, as men climb into a fig tree.' 'I have seen it,' says Dr. Thomson, 'on the rich plain of Akkar as tall as the horse and his rider.' " 4. The Application: (a) Historical: The little babe in the manger, a stpposed carpenter's son, now the greatest character of the world's history. Shortest of religious laws, "Love the GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL - 99 Lord," and the briefest of all codes of ethics, "Love thy neighbor," each is growing to over-shadow all other laws and codes. (b) The little impulse of helpfulness grows into the great heartthrob of benevolence; the little act of self-sacrifice becomes a leading life-habit that lifts us up and holds us in the line of heroes and heroines. The simple faith of childhood grows into a spiritual life that makes for us a place in the presence of God. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give the Savior's own interpretation of the parable of the tares. 2. Who are the persons referred to by the word "men" in Matthew 13:25? 3. Show how this parable teaches patience and forbearance. 4. When people unite in organizations for purposes out of harmony with the teachings of Christ, what part of the parable are they illustrating? 5. To what extent is each one of us a "tare"? 6. What are the evidences of one's being the "wheat" spoken of in the parable? 7. Show how this parable teaches the unescapableness of the final judgment. 8, State three evident purposes of this parable. 9. Show the fitness of the mustard-plant as an object of | illustration in this parable. 10. Give historical application of the idea of growth from - small to great things under divine care. 11. Wherein is the religious law and the ethical code of the Savior like the mustard-plant that became the greatest of all "herbs"? 12. Correlate the parable of the mustard-seed with the hymn beginning, "Jesus, once of humble birth." 13. Wherein is the faith of childhood like the mustard-seed? How may it become the greatest source of joy and the greatest factor of happiness through earth-life and at. Its end? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in April) 100 LESSON II Literature (Third Week in April) James RussELL LOWELL James Russell Lowell holds a position of high honor among the poets of his period. He came of one of those old New England families, who, like the Adamses, have never failed to produce men of marked ability. The present President of Harvard University, President A. Lawrence Lowell, is of that family; also, Amy Lowell, who is one of the chief exponents of the new poetry in America at the present time. Among his ancestors were many prominent persons: clergymen and judges and men of marked public spirit. His father was a minister in a church in Boston and was noted for the integrity of his character and the energy he put forth. Lowell, like Longfellow, was born and nurtured in an environment of culture. He was surrounded with a good library and had the classical training that Harvard University then afforded. He was graduated from Harvard University in 1838. Lowell made his advent at a very important period of time. The conscience and the intellect of New England had been aroused by the leadership, first, of William Lloyd -Garrison. And, secondly, of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Garrison had established a paper called The Liberator, whose purpose was so to stir the conscience of the North that it would demand the abolition of slavery in the United States. By the publication of his essay on Nature, Emerson had roused the New England intellect to a new sense of freedom and an appreciation of the beautiful in nature. Lowell responded readily to his spiritual and intellectual environment. He was dreamy and poetic and loved nature in the same ardent manner as did some of the English poets of this period. But while he loved to portray the beauties of nature as did Wordsworth in England, in one thing he differed greatly from him: Wordsworth, through most of his life, was not interested in social reform, while Lowell was very greatly interested in such reform. Lowell, like Whittier, became a poetic trumpeter of the Abolition Period. But, while Lowell responded quickly to the new life about him, he, like the others of his group, _ inherited the Puritan tendencies and reflected them in his writings. He did not object to poetry that taught an ethical lesson, and admits in his own criticism of himself that he probably had not learned the distinction between singing and preaching. We have in this presentation set forth three characteristics that are very prominent in the writings of Mr. Lowell. First, the GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101 was a Puritan of the Puritans, inheriting the traditions of his New England forefathers, and reflecting their love for morals and moral teaching; secondly, he responded very quickly to the beauty in nature; and, thirdly, he was part and portion of that spirit that was with great zeal seeking to free the slaves of America. A good illustration of a poem that sets forth the first two characteristics, that of a love for the ethical in life and for loveliness in nature, is The Vision of Sir Launfal. We desire that the class leader shall study the poem and present it to the class as she sees fit. We shall include the descriptions of Spring and. Winter as examples of Lowell's ability to portray nature, and two other stanzas from the poem illustrating his ability to portray and teach a moral lesson through the medium of poetry: The Vision of Sir Launfal "And what is so rare as a day in June? Then, if ever, come perfect days; Then Heaven tries earth if it be in tune, And over it softly her warm ear lays; Whether we look. Or whether we listen, We hear life murmur, or see it glisten; Every clod feels a stir of might, An instinct wi hin it that reaches and towers, And, groping blindly above it for light, Climbs to a soul in grass and flowers; The flush of life may.. Well be seen Thrilling back over hills and valleys; The cowslip startles in meadows green, The buttercup catches the sun in its chalice, And there's never a leaf nor a blade too mean _ To be some happy creature's palace;. The little bird sits at his door in the sun, Atilt like a blossom among the leaves, And lets his illumined being o'errun With the deluge of summer it receives; His mate feels the eggs beneath her wings, And the heart in her dumb breast flutters and sings; He sings to the wide world, and she to her nest,? In the nice ear of Nature which song is. The best?" In contrast to the above description of spring, is the portrayal of winter given below: "Down swept the chill wind from the mountain peak, From the snow five thousand summers old; On open wold and hill-top bleak It gathered all the cold. And whirled it like sleet on the wanderer's cheek; It carried a shiver everywhere From the unleafed boughs and pastures bare; The little brook heard it and built a roof 'Neath which he could house him, winter-proof; All night by the white stars' frosty gleams He groined his arches and matched his beams; Slender and clear were his crystal spars As the lashes of light that trim the stars; He sculptured every summer delight In his halls and chambers out of sight; Sometimes his tinkling waters slipt Down through a frost-leaved forest-crypt, Long, sparkling aisles of steel-stemmed trees Bending to counterfeit a breeze; Sometimes the roof no fretwork knew But silvery mosses that downward grew; Sometimes it was carved in sharp relief With quaint arabesques of ice-fern leaf; Sometimes it was simply smooth and clear For the gladness of heaven to shine through, and here He had caught the nodding bulrush-tops And hung them thickly with diamond drops, That crystalled the beams of moon and sun, And made a star of every one. No mortal builder's most rare device Could match this winter-palace of ice; Twas as if every image that mirrored lay In his depths serene through the summer day, Each fleeting shadow of earth and sky, Lest the happy model should be lost, Had been mimicked in fairy masonry By the elfin builders of the frost." The two stanzas below illustrate Lowell's ability to point a moral lesson: "As Sir Launfal made morn through the darksome gate, He was 'ware of a leper, crouched by the same, Who begged with his hand and moaned as he sate; And a loathing over Sir Launfal came; The sunshine went out of his soul with a thrill, The flesh 'neath his armor 'gan shrink and crawl. 'And midway its leap his heart stood still Like a frozen waterfall; For this man, so foul and bent of stature, Rasped harshly against his dainty nature, And seemed the one blot on the summer morn,? So he tossed him a piece of gold in scorn, GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 "'The leper raised not the gold from the dust: Better-to me the poor man's crust, Better the blessing of the poor, Though I turn me empty from his door; That is no true alms which the hand can hold; He gives 'nothing but worthless gold Who gives from a sense of duty; But he who gives but a slender mite, And gives to that which is out of sight, That thread of the all-sustaining Beauty Which runs through all and doth all unite,? The hand cannot clasp the whole of his alms, The heart outstretches its eager palms, For a god goes with it and makes it store To the soul that was starving in darkness before." The best example of Lowell's abolition poetry is perhaps found in his The Present Crisis: 'When a deed is done for Freedom, through the broad earth's aching breast Runs a thrill of joy prophetic, trembling on from east to west, And the slave, where'er he cowers, feels the soul within him climb To the awful verge of manhood, as the energy sublime Of a century bursts full-blossomed on the thorny stem of Time. "Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide, In the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side; Some great cause, God's new Messiah, offering each the bloom or blight, Parts the goats upon the left hand, and the sheep upon the right, And the choice goes by forever 'twixt that darkness and that light. "Hast thou chosen, O my people, on. Whose party thou shalt stand, Ere the Doom from its worn sandals shakes the dust against our land? Though the cause of Evil prosper, yet 'tis Truth alone is strong, And, albeit she wander outcast now, I see around her throng Troops of beautiful, tall angels, to enshield her from all wrong. "Careless seems the great Avenger; history's pages but record One death-grapple in the darkness 'twixt old systems and the Word; Truth forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throne,? Yet that scaffold sways the future, and, behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own." Inasmuch as February marks the anniversary of the birth of