VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1885	No. 23.


For the EXPONENT:
		SPRING RAIN.

Oh, list to the voice of the pleasant spring rain,
	Which trickles and tinkles in cadences sweet,
As lutestrings and elf horns, or merry refrain
	Of sleighbells and hoofbeats, so faint and so fleet—
Or the whisper of zephyr from over the hills,
	His deep secrets telling to leaves of the trees—
The warble of birds, the gay ripple of rills,
	The laughter of childhood, the humming of bees:—

Oh, every glad voice of earth, ocean and air,
	Subdued to the key of a happy heartbeat,
Seems mingled and blended in harmony rare,
	So joyously tender, so hopefully sweet,
My heart can interpret the musical tone,
	And sings in accord with the beautiful rain
As seashells forever in soft undertone
	Breathe choruses learned in the choir of the main

It murmers glad tidings through all the soft air,
	The herald of summer, proclaiming before
O trees of the woodland, so brown and so bare,
	Your green robes and blossoms must deck you once
	more.
They start with a quiver of life in each vein,
	Sweet impulses tingle from rootlet to bough,
Of up and be doing; they scarce can complain
	The sweet tides of ecstasy thrilling them now.

It calls to the grasses, the lowly of earth,
	Dear little ones, hark! I have tidings at last,
Your lances present, ’tis the season of mirth,
	And wave your wee banners for winter is past.
All nature's dear children, the great and the small,
	On mountain and valley, in meadow and dell;
It greets, and they joyously answer the call,
	And their hearts at its coming in rapture swell.

Oh, think of the joy of the sprouting things
	That waken and stir in their dark loamy beds,
And thrill with delight at the song it sings,
	While tripping and dancing above their heads.
Little sisters and brothers, awake! it cries,
	Queen summer is coming across the bright main;
I bring her fond message: my darlings arise!
	I'm longing to kiss your sweet faces again.

Soon all the brown meadows will laugh into green
	The stately trees rustle in richest array,
The winter-bound brooks burst their icy cold chains,
	And merry birds twitter from each leafy spray.
Bless God for His goodness, His mercy and love,
	The fair face of nature, hill, valley and plain,
All blessings and wonders, below and above,
	And thanks for the beautiful, beautiful rain.
			LU DALTON.


IN MEMORY OF CLARA J. YOUNG.

DEDICATED TO ALL WHO LOVED HER.

Adorn the dead with robes of white,
	Symbol of purity and peace,
With anthems sweet, and flowers most bright,
	Proclaim our sister's glad release.

A radiant rose, without a thorn;
	A type of queenly beauty rare—
I knew her in life's early morn,
	When all her future looked so fair;

Yet, clouded oft her days have been;
	A long and lonely path she trod;
Nor doubt we that she learned to lean
	For strength upon the Lord, her God.

No more for her such pain and strife,
	Conflicting fears, and hopes defer'd
The clashing cares of mortal life,
	By which the tenderest hearts are stirred.

No more for her the daily cross,
	That God's peculiar people bear—
The world's contempt, who count as dross—
	E'en Zion's daughters pure and fair.


A vile opprobrious outcast name,
	The royal badge of Saint's indeed;
A heritage of scorn and blame—
	This dower "the Christ" His own bequeath'd

Children of Zion, need ye weep
	For one who honored heaven's behests?
Nay, for a record angels keep
	Of all who stand the fiery test.

What if the world's reproach must be
	The need of all who're faithful found—
The just shall wake to ecstasy
	Soon as "the quick'ning trump" shall sound.

Rejoice! for with the dead 'tis well,
	Who nobly lived and faithful died;
Rejoice! that in God's crucible
	Even as gold the best are tried.

Heaven help us to be true and pure,
	To keep "the faith" what e'er befall,
And for the crown the cross endure,
	As did the mighty Lord of all.

		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, April 27, 1885.


[Column 1]

THOUGHTS.

MY DEAR SISTERS, THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION:
	I would that ye incline your ears to what I
may write unto you. Engrave the same upon
the tablets of your inmost soul, unto the day
of your great rejoicing, by obeying the coun-
sels and instructions given you continually by
the Priesthood, at the Mutuals, Primaries, by
your parents, in short by all who hold the
soul's salvation of the young dear. If you do
otherwise great will be your sorrow and re-
morse; aye, that sorrow and remorse which
comes of a conscience not void of offense to
God, which passeth the comprehension, save by
that sad, bitter experience of those disobedient
to our Heavenly Father's laws.
	Would that we could all see with the eyes
of our elder brethren and sisters, or in other
words, be counseled, led and directed by their
inspired wisdom, how much misery and woe of
the direst form might we escape if this were
our course.
	Do not associate yourselves with any but
Latter-day Saints, not even the half-hearted
amongst us, for therein lies safety, and only
therein; no matter how nice or fair they may
seem, or of what relation they may be, if they
are not of our faith shun them; should circum-
stances throw you into such society treat them
with such civility as becometh a Latter-day
Saint, but let it be of such a nature that is
born of polished dignity, and that forbids any
intimacy, and you will one day see and feel
forcibly the wisdom of such a course and the
blessings attached. Some will doubtless say,
"Oh that is too straight laced for me! Why
such severity?" Listen. Do you believe in
God? If so, do you believe He means what
He says? You do? Very good, then; He
tells us "that those who are not for us are
against us." Can anything be more tersely
put? "But then," says another, "they are so
nice, so polite, so gallant, so—so"—yes, yes, my
dears, I know they are; Satan himself, I have
heard, is a gentleman. This niceness, gallantry,
etc., is generally a mere polished exterior, or
acquired from force of habit, covering an in-
ward corruption and vice of such a d——g
nature your very souls would revolt with hor-
ror could you discern it. They are verily
"whited sepulchres," instruments of the infer-
nal regions, sent to allure, pollute and destroy

[Column 2]

our young sisters. Oil and water cannot mix,
does not unite. So it is with the Latter-day
Saint girl and the Gentile marriage; hence the
"straight laced ideas," as some may term them.
It is displeasing in the sight of God for the
sons and daughters of Zion to marry with the
ungodly, or the children of men. Read your
Bible, Book of Mormon, etc.; con well their
precious pages, and learn the judgments of an
outraged God through the sons and daughters
marrying the children of men.
	I bear my testimony to all the daughters of
Zion, that no girl can be happy, or have even
the shadow of happiness, who commits the
grievous error of uniting her fate with an
unbeliever, grievous to none more so than
herself, in the end. No matter what the
circumstances, with what wealth, or other se-
ductive pleasures they may be surrounded, nor
how loving and devoted the husband may
seem to be, all this is a hollow mockery and
the soul yearns after something better and
holier, beyond his power to bestow; there is a
void, a dreary, aching vacuum that cannot be
filled; children only add to your soul's misery;
you are engulfed or surrounded by a perfect
sea of doubts, fears and awful anxieties lest
something should happen and your treasures
be taken from you, knowing that death severs
all ties between you. The mental tortures,
sleeping or waking, endured under these cir-
cumstances, are terrible, maddening, relentless
and unceasing; truly "the wages of sin is
death—" in this case a living one.
	Do not be deceived by cases of those who
marry thus and seem to be happy, for 'tis but
seeming at best. Could you but look into the
recesses of their hearts your souls would sicken
at the sight. They would gladly exchange
places with the veriest menial. True there
may be some who enjoy a moderate degree of
happiness, etc, but, then, their day of judg-
ment is to come; they are not suffering the ef-
fects of their transgressions on this earth, and
hence will have to hereafter. Then who would
envy them or their earthly happiness? We
are not here for this life alone, must be borne
in mind, that our fleshly desires overcome us
not, but to earn happiness, joy, rejoicing, king-
doms and exaltation in the presence of our
Lord throughout the endless ages, or "weeping,
wailing," etc.; which ever we sow we reap, for
the Lord says, "The laborer is worthy of his
hire, and it is safe to say will be rewarded by
the master he listeth to obey." Let us, then,
be found laboring in the Lord's vineyard. Fools
are known by their folly; let us rather be known
by our wisdom, by our obedience to the Priest-
hood at all times, and there will be no fear of
our marrying a Gentile. They would have to
seek wives amongst their own.
	Now, my dear sisters, be warned in time. If
this should meet the eye of one about to take
such an awful step, pause, reflect ere you take
that terrible step; pause upon the verge of the
precipice whereon you stand, and pray to God
for strength, power to comprehend and save
yourself for a "more glorious purpose," and
wait patiently for a husband of the kingdom
of God; when you will learn the meaning of
husband and wife in their holy and eternal
significance.
	That this article may be the means of caus-
ing my young sisters to reflect and choose the
better part, is my greatest desire.
	Before closing I wish to call attention to the


sad, but  true story, "The Moth and this
Flame." What a beautiful picture she has
drawn of celestial marriage---how heavenly is
the sight. This is a story, some may say. Yes,
but I have seen more than one such family in
every day life, that are true examples, practi-
c[-]l of her picture. Who would forego the
calm, sweet heavenly joys and peace of that
young wife, Mary Edna, in the fore part, for
the pomp and misery, gilt and tinsel of poor
mistaken Eulalie? How my heart ached---
bled afresh over her silent sorrows that none
but God knew[-] and those who have trod the
same thorny path.
	I could rehearse to you a tale of such utter
woe, misery, heart ache and deception, that
would chill your warm young blood and make
such an impression as would not be forgotten[-]
If it is the Lord's will I will write this tale; i[-]
shows up another phase of experience of marry[-]
ing a Gentile, of which the writer of this was
the sufferer; an experience which should con-
vince the most liberal that the daughters of
Zion should not marry with the unbeliever.  I
would exhort the young to study the principles
of the Gospel; seek a testimony thereof, and
never raise your voice against God's anointed,
or any principle of the Gospel.
							LIZZIE B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WHAT CAN A WOMAN DO?

	No doubt many members of the Institute
have wondered what vocation in life they
should adopt by means of which they  could
earn their own livelihood, thus promoting self-
reliance and the ability to do something suffi-
ciently renumerative to enable them to fight the
battle of life single handed, if necessity re-
quired it, or circumstances compelled them to
do so.  As there is always a possibility that re-
verses may come to all of us - is it not wisdom
to give some consideration to this subject?
	It would be impossible to define just what
course any member should follow to become
entirely successful; in this matter, as in many
others, we must be our own judges.  One thing
I can say with certainty, and that is this:
In making up our minds we should not adopt
any kind of labor in the slightest degree de-
grading.  Whatever we try to do, let it be the
labor we love; something we can do enthusiasti-
cally. People are rarely successful who work
mechanically.
	Some persons have thought, and do so now,
that the only labors a woman should perform
must be of a domestic character; that to be a
household drudge is all she is capable of be-
ing; but such persons must be told that at the
present time there are hundreds of ladies in
the civilized world making themselves famous
as authors, physicians, surgeons, public speak-
ers, painters, sculptors and lawyers. The ad-
vanced situation of the women of to-day grants
to her all the privileges she may seek to enjoy;
and if for any reason she does not choose to
marry, there is no law to compel her to do so.
This being the case she should know how to
take care of herself, and earn her own living.
	No successful result in any branch of study
or labor can be gained without commencing
with the menial duties connected with a work-
shop or the office.  The great fault of learners
generally is that they want to reach the top of
the ladder without first commencing at the
bottom. A great man once said that no one
could attain eminence as a lawyer without
first starting as errand boy, and sweeping out
the office as his first lessons.  In this city to-
day there are scores of ladies trying to paint
pictures without having first learned to draw.
The result is that they can never show marked
superiority; their productions will never be first
class, and what is more, cannot have a com-
mercial value, their time, paint and other ma-

[Column 2]
terials being literally thrown away. Here
then, is a point for our consideration. If we
would be artists let us start aright.  Find out
what you love to paint, and make a special
study of that particular branch of art study
you adopt.  Copy nothing, when once you
have mastered the rules, but nature, whether in
landscape or figure painting. Copies of any
other person's work have very little value.
Original efforts are the only paying ones.
	Prang of Boston, Goodall of London and
many others pay immense sums to ladies for
original designs in flowers and landscape
studies that are used in the production of birth-
day, Christmas, Easter, and New Year's cards.
They never ask the question as to where a lady
lives whose productions are acceptable.
	Coloring photographs in the styles now in
vogue brings good remuneratives to all who are
capable of doing good work, and who are de-
termined to succeed. Retouching photograph
negatives employs thousands of ladies in the
United States and Europe. Wages are gener-
ally good.
	We have in Utah to-day many ladies who
are making a good record as physicians, and
although this is a very arduous and difficult
vocation they are equal to the task.  There is
room for many others to obtain the same ad-
vantages. Each town and village can employ
a lady physician, and if they are not fully oc-
cupied as such why should they not learn den-
tistry? As we are fast becoming a toothless
generation the opportunities seem very flatter-
ing to all that will study the art.
	Notably among the Catholics many of the
female portion deny themselves earthly pleas-
ures and devote their lives to doing good, ever
ready to meet death and to face human misery
in every form, whether in homes or hospitals,
or in the midst of the terrors of the yellow
fever, cholera and other contagious diseases.
Cannot my sisters, without becoming nuns,
learn to be good nurses, if they cannot be-
come physicians? There are very few, good
nurses to be found.
	Photography is practised by many ladies.
There is one in Utah to-day that is doing real
well.  It is easy to learn in some branches, and
generally pays industrious devotees well.  I
would hardly recommend barbering to ladies,
but there are plenty of the fair sex that make
their living by practising the tonsorial art. As
Telegraphers women have proven very success-
ful. Thousands are now employed in the dif-
ferent branches of labor developed by the
uses of electricity, and there is still room for
more.
	There is a wide open field for school teachers,
and if a lady is strong physically and endowed
with patience and a lover of children, is perse-
vering and ambitious, what should hinder her
from making a financial success of this very
important employment.
	Every woman should know how to make a
dress for herself, and why should she not be
able to make them for others? As a matter
of course to be successful she must have a good
eye to make them fit like a glove, must be fa-
miliar with the rules of cutting out and fitting
other than well formed persons, all of which
requires close study.  Good dressmakers are
rarely in want of a job.
	Some of the gentler sex like to work in
factories; some do well as book-binders, and
hundreds find employment in stores. None
other than ladies can be expert milliners. The
making of artificial flowers is an undeveloped
industry in Utah. Years ago our pioneer
women used to weave and spin. There were
very many good tailoresses then; why are there
so few at present? Type setting employs a
goodly number of girls.  Then again who can
cook better than our mother's sex? Far better
to have cooking classes in our wards than waste
time on useless amusements. There is always

[Column 3]
sure work for girls as domestic helps, and when
they are well treated, I have no objection to
this kind of occupation, although some think
it menial. The result is the same, whether you
teach a scholar or make a pie - it is so much
labor for so much money. Idleness brings no
return, but labor a sure reward. To work
dignifies a man or woman. Nothing is more
degrading than laziness.
	Should any of my lady friends be so fortun-
ate as to learn to play the piano or organ, and
to perform the task well, they will find music
teaching renumerative in civilized communi-
ties. Many high born ladies, that have met
with reverses, find a knowledge of music very
advantageous. Very many large establishments
employ ladies as book-keepers, and there is no
reason why any women, who will study well
the art, should lack employment as such.
	I might go on and enumerate many other
sources looking to the dependence of women,
but space will not permit. Whatever vocation
we may decide upon as the one best suited to
our tastes, we must do with our whole heart,
determined to be  first class in everything. No
business can prove a paying success without
being understood theoreically and practically.
If we determine to know  those details of social
life that always make a woman attractive -
namely, how to manage a home; general knowl-
edge always comes into play.  No position that
a woman can fill is more ennobling than to
know how to preside over a home. A man
may be attracted by a woman when well
dressed and on parade, but he is won by her
domestic accomplishments. Self-culture will
make her an agreeable companion, and a
knowledge of domestic duties a helpmate -
without which  home has no charm, and married
life no fascination. To my mind any vocation
that leads a young woman to be fully prepared
for the duties of wifehood is always safe to fol-
low. Should any of my young lady friends
not succeed in any of the lines of labor before
named, but prove a success as a wife, she will
have accomplished one of the principal aims of
a woman's life.  Some one else will be the
happier for knowing her, and this is success
enough.					C. R. S.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	One of the most enjoyable affairs that ever
happened in Deseret came off on the 2d of April
in the form of a surprise party in honor of the
Prest. of our Society at the Relief Hall. Sister
Eliza Whicker has been president of this socie-
ty for seven years, and is a noble and well
respected sister.
	The tables were spread with a sumptuous
repast and the company seated when our be-
loved President arrived. After dinner the
ceremonies were continued by presenting Sis-
ter Whicker with a neatly gotten up and ap-
propriate address in a suitable frame, and
several other presents by the sisters, followed
by a programme, consisting of speeches, songs
and recitations.
	Sister Whicker addressed those present for
a short time, thanking the sisters for their kind-
ness; said she prized the address more than
gold or silver. A vote of thanks was then re-
turned to the committee for their exertions,and
the entertainment closed with singing and
prayer.	Respectfully,
	MARY A. BISHOP, Secretary.
Deseret, Millard Co., April 8th, 1885.


"Mrs. Elizabeth L. Saxon, of Louisiana, has
been engaged in the W. C. T. U. work in Ten-
nessee during the past year. There were but
four unions a year ago; since then Mrs. Saxon
has organized forty-eight unions with 1,560
members."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IMPROMPTU.

ADDRESSED TO A LADY SHEDDING REAL TEARS FOR
	THE DEATH OF HER PET DOG “BEAUTY.”

“Beauty,” of dogmatic race,
	Thy mistress weeps thy doom[-]
That cruel death should thus displace
	Thy loving form so soon.

Thou wert dogmatic in thy love,
	Devoted, fond and true;
And all her acts did fully prove
	She estimated you.

I pray another dog may find
	A niche within her heart,
As faithful, loving and as kind
As him she’s seen depart.

I own he was a pretty dog
	As e’er a dog could be,
One fit to hold in memory’s “log,”
	A cenotaph for thee.

But yet I own my love goes o[-]t
	Never to dog or cat:
I like to see them run about
	The house and grounds, “and that,”

But give me ever human love,
	Intelligent and kind,
Inflated richly from above,
	And interchange of mind.

The dogs I leave without the wall,
	Where Scripture says they’ll be,
When that grand order rests on all—
Eternal entity!

“Beauty” is still upon the earth,
	Where’er you turn your eyes;
Beauty has daily, hourly birth
	For votive sacrifice:

Then, dearest lady, look around
	And dry those eyes of thine,
For love like thine is bliss when found
	By those your sea[-] says—Mine
		HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

NOTES ON THE LIFE OF GEORGE
ELIOT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear friend: I have, an hour ago, finished
"The Life of Goerge Eliot;" thanks, ever so
many, for the loan of it. And now I suppose
you will open your eyes when I say that I am
disappointed! The fact is, I anticipated too
much. I cannot think she ever dreamed of
the letters being published; the sole material
is George Eliott i. e., her manuscripts her eternal
headaches, and ditto illnesses, through which
was displayed "the miraculous affection that
has chosen to watch over me." These are en-
tirely her own words, and it seems to me this
idolizing affection and attention in a degree
enervated her. Her journeyings and foreign
travel seem to have amounted to a perpetual
motion! Another singular feature in her daily
life is her often depression, even though sur-
rounded by bright and wonderfully superior
intellects; ministering to her and feeding her
mind with food, "convenient for it," and assist-
ing her in her literary labors. Again her
want of confidence in her own ability to ac-
complish another work, even when she had
world of admirers at her feet, for what she had
written, besides realizing a handsome fortune
by the same, were it any other than George
Eliot, I should exclaim, "What gross affecta-
tion!" A doubt of one's self is well known to
young authors, or to those who experience a
paucity of commendation, and simply "cast
their bread upon the waters—" and just sing
the song that nature impels, or inspires them
to send forth. There must have been some
chords in that fine soul of hers that had not
been drawn to a harmonizing tension, to occas-

[Column 2]

ion such a serious lack of rhythm in the noble
instrument.
	Her soul and inner life is almost excluded
from her letters; it is her literary business that
fills them. Her letters to friends are simply
the common words and wishes of common
epistolary correspondence; it is seldom a new
or startling idea presents itself; it is true they
abound in love and friendship to those she is
addressing, and who does not use the same that
has any realizing sense of those beautiful at-
tributres? I am so disappointed that I must
have a target, and I think Mr. Cross shall
stand for that, and I will say I think he is not
a suitable biographer, and that another should
have been selected for such a complex office; it
is a very delicate position for the one nearest
and dearest to the departed to attempt its de-
lineation, as they would be very apt to draw
the picture through the lens of the admirable
and the beautiful that existed in the character,
forgetting that which every artiste remembers
and understands, the shading of the picture!
Mr. Cross probably realized all this and hence
he gave her letters that she might speak for
herself, and that would have been a just idea
had she developed herself in them. I say this
in no spirit of fault-finding or caviling, but
because I have so loved the works of George
Eliot, that I wanted to see her beautiful soul
in the "inner chamber" of her life; this we
scarcely get a glimpse of, and we lay down the
book and feel we have not seen the "lifted
veil."
	Especially had I hoped that I should read
some few words of her own upon that vital
epoch of her young life, upon which she en-
tered with such a silent; grand audacity, that
amounts almost to the sublime! This is no in-
flated language when we know her origin.
Her father was a strictly religious, conscien-
tious man, a sedate, respectable character,
honored and respected, by the high and noble
in rank and position, and by all whom he as-
sociated with; that his house was one of "order,"
that he reared his family in a strictly religious
training, that this child was especially of a de-
vout, deep-thinking mind, deeply imbued in
religious tenets, strictly virtuous, that all this
early training is developed in her works; the
beautiful prayers and aspirations they contain
exhibit the living principle in her through life.
Mr. Cross says her mind was ever religious.
This is also shown remarkably in her poems:
but at an early age she became associated with
minds of another caste, with regard to religi-
ous views, and soon after with Herbert Spencer,
George Henry Lewes and others. Grand and
great as were the minds of these men, their re-
ligious principles were of the Comte school, and
the contagion was inevitable. Still that home
religion could not be entirely extinguished in
her adhesive soul, and we can well imagine the
exquisite throes that agonized it, before she could
bring herself to take so bold a step in defiance
of the law of her country, and of the church
that had been her "nursing mother."
	Apropos of this said law of England! I bold-
ly declare it to be iniquitous! I mean the law
that refuses a divorce under circumstances in
which it is sin to oblige antagonisms to amal-
gamate. By such a law was G. H. Lewes bound
as well as many others. Let the law-makers
take the responsibility of all the misery they
have caused to many pure and virtuous souls.
It is upon this soul-thrilling subject I so
wished for a few words from the clear-headed,
religious-minded, strong-principled George
Eliot; but silence is her only commentary, and
here, I think, she erred; for was not the step
e took a public one? Did she not belong to
t Imperial Public? I am proud to say she
did and that I am a unit of the same, and
tha[-] the public have dealt nobly and under-
standingly with her, showing their rich ap-
preciation of her grand ability as an author

[Column 3]

by the handsome fortune it laid at her feet by
the purchase of her works.
	England and America have united in being
a nursing mother to her, and her name is
blended on the emblazoned scroll with their
literary immortals!
	Her poems most agreeably surprised me.
They are grand! "The Death of Moses,"
"Armgart," "How Lisa Loved the King," are
all filled with thoughts, words and deeds that
ennoble the author. "The Spanish Gypsy" is
also a wonderful painting of the awful beauty
and grandeur of savage life and character.
The origin of the Gypsies has ever been in-
volved in mystery; certainly they are a distinct
race from a noble source, denoting in their
form and features a grand type of humanity;
yet they are wanderers upon the face of the
earth, and no government could make them
otherwise; the earth is their eternal stage, and
the blue firmament their curtain, they ask no
other, they would accept no other. Fedalma,
in the beautiful palace in which she had been
reared, yearning for the outer world, as a
caged bird, is a graphic picture of the genuine
Gypsy.
	All George Eliot's characters, in whatever
form they appear, are drawn miraculously true
to nature, and herein she shines as the true
artist, and displays, throughout her works, her
own wonderfully observant, intuitive and in-
stinctive soul. She is gone! and we shall read
her no more, see her no more, till we hehold—
and hear her, in her own heavenly words, in the
choir invisible, "Whose music is the gladness
of the world."
		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, April 6th, 1885.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Mason, once the wife of Charles Sum-
mer, has taken up a permanent residence in
Rome.
	The Empress Eugenie has written a book up-
on the various recollections of her life, which
will be issued immediately.
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar will contribute an
article to the New Era for May, descriptive
of her recent journeyings in Cuba.
	A son of Charles Dickens is a captain in the
Canadian mounted police, and is in command
of a post threatened by Riel's rebel forces.
	The "Woman's Realm" department of the
Pittsburg, Commercial Gazette, ably edited by
Matilda Hindman, is widely quoted with friend-
ly comments.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Bishop
Spalding debate in the May number of the
North American Review the question "Has
Christianity Benefited Woman?"
	Mrs. Rosa H. Thorpe, the author of the popu-
lar "Curfew Must Not Ring To-Night," resides
at San Antonio. Texas, and talks of going to
California to live.
	Jenny Lind has made a conditional promise
to give a concert next summer in Norwich, Eng-
land, in aid of the Children's Infirmary there,
of which she is the founder.
	The Ohio Hospital for Women and Chil-
dren at Cincinnati was established three years
ago, through the efforts of two women physi-
cians, Ella N. Kirk and Martha May Howells.
	"In 1882 there was a majority of five against
the woman suffrage bill in the New York As-
sembly; in 1884, a majority of four. This year
there was a majority of one in its favor, but
it did not receive the 64 votes necessary to pass
any bill."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1885.


[Column 1]

THE LAST DECISION.

	Of late there has been great anxiety in the
community in regard to what the decision of the
court would be in the case of Angus M. Cannon,
President of this Stake of Zion. It has been
looked upon in the light of a test case, and
therefore eager attention has been directed to-
wards the anticipated result.
	President Cannon employed the most eminent
lawyers in the city, and everything that could
be done to give the case prestige was accom-
plished, but it proved all to no purpose, for when
the trial came up, and the case was argued, all
the sublime eloquence of the most powerful
speakers counted for nothing, and the District
Attorney and Judge construed or defined the
term cohabitation according to an entirely new
idea, in order to secure, as it would seem, the
conviction of the accused, although the defend-
ant had, as was proven, kept the Edmunds law
as it had previously been interpreted in the
courts. One cannot help thinking that the mind
of the Judge and Prosecuting Attorney have
undergone a radical change since the case of
Rudgar Clawson was decided, and even since the
decision was given in another notable case—that
of Orson Arnold. Cohabitation means some-
thing different now, and judging from past ren-
derings no man will be able to tell how cohabita-
tion may yet be defined in the near future.
	The rare jewel, consistency, is absolutely left
out of the trial in the Cannon case, and the
Judge delivers his opinions as much like an
oracle as though he was seated on the bench of
the Supreme Court of the United States.
	It is rather surprising to hear men acknowl-
edge that the Edmunds law is not for the crime
of adultery and similar offences against morality
and decency, and yet it has been apparent all
the time that it was not; however it is plain to
be seen that in these matters Congress does not
intefere. Sin and vice abound and grow more
and more bold every day, and very little heed is
given to the entreaties of those zealous reform-
ers who are exercised over the matter, but when
it is affirmed by the judiciary that the Edmunds
law is to protect monogamic marriage, it is al-
most too much. It makes one sick at heart who
is acquainted with facts in relation to the safe-
guards that the very strenuous and scrupulous
people, who discuss these subjects in public,
throw around marriage to protect its sanctity.
To enumerate instances of abuses of this form
of marriage would be too extensive, unless one
could publish volume upon volume.
	In monogamy when men tire of their wives
they find an excuse to divorce them, or leave
them until the law acknowledges the separation,
if, indeed, they consider law in the case. There is
an abundance of instances in these United States
where men have had four or five or more wives
in this way, and all living; but that practice is

[column 2]

considered legitimate and within the pale of law,
although there had been all the solemnity of a
marriage ceremony in each case, that ought to
have been binding on both parties throughout
all time at least.
	It seems incredible to think that judges will
resort to such weak excuses to punish Mormons,
when there is no shadow of evidence to prove
even the appearance of having broken the law
in question. The whole proceedings are simply
a form without any meaning, except to convict,
a hollow mockery so far as the defendant is con-
cerned, and yet intended to force men to utterly
abandon those whom they have made the most
solemn covenants before God to cherish and pro-
tect.
	But these men, judges and officials, will fall
far short of accomplishing what they have un-
dertaken, however zealous they may be in
prosecuting and convicting, they cannot stop
the progress of the Kingdom of God upon the
earth. "Man proposes, but God disposes," and
they are only helping to fulfill the prophecies
concerning the last days.
	There will certainly be a diversity of opinion
even among those who discountenance the
practice of plural marriage, in regard to
Judge Zane's ruling in the Cannon case. The
interpretation the Judge gives of the word co-
habitation is so purely original that it will be
questioned as doubtful on all sides. A man's
liberty hangs by a very fine silken gossamer
thread, when it can be balanced against the
definition given to one simple word.
	It is pretty plain to see that the keeping of the
Edmunds law does not save men from the pun-
ishment determined upon, viz, fine and imprison-
ment, and, therefore, what inducement is there
to keep the law at all? By and bye, perhaps,
after innocent men have been made to suffer, or
another sort of case comes up which needs an-
other stretch of conscience, the term cohabita-
tion may have another construction put upon it.
Meantime the people will go on with their vari-
ous pursuits—preaching the Gospel, gathering
the poor, subduing the earth, beautifying and
improving Zion, teaching industry, economy
and virtue, and encouraging the people to con-
tinue in keeping the commandments of God.
This people are in the hands of that God whom
they have covenanted to obey, and He will
overrule all things for good, and no power on
earth or in heaven can hinder the growth and
spread of the work He has set His hand to do.
Things may look very dark and gloomy, men
may be in prison and in bonds, and Satan may
have power to afflict the Saints, but they will
always have the strength and courage to endure
if they live faithful and keep the Spirit of God
in their hearts, and when their integrity to God
and His Kingdom is sufficiently proven He will
come out of His hiding place and manifest His
power in the deliverance of His chosen people.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Primary Association of the 15th Ward of
this city was reorganized Oct. 16th, 1884. Mrs.
Lucy Pratt Russell had resigned the position,
on account of increased family cares, that re-
quired her whole attention, after having held
the office, which she ably and honorably filled,
a number of years. The Bishop of the ward se-
lected Mrs. M. Lois Morris to fill the vacancy, and
the organization was completed with the follow-
ing officers: M. Lois Morris, President; Susannah
Waterfall and Hortensia L. Jones, Counselors;
Vennie Luffkin, Secretary; George L. Morris,
Treasurer. The Bishopric of the ward and Sis-
ters E. C. Clawson, L. A. Wells and S. M.
Kimball officiated in the organization, and made
suitable remarks to those assembled. We un-

[Column 2]

derstand the Association to be in a flourishing
condition at the present time.
	THE Annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Twelfth Ward was held on Wednes-
day, April 22nd, in the Assembly Rooms, Mrs.
Ellen C. Clawson presiding. The weather was
very unfavorable, yet there were over sixty
children present. The minutes of previous an-
nual meeting were read and approved, also the
statistical and financial report. Singing and
other exercises were well rendered, and reflected
great credit upon those who have so arduous
though pleasant a labor in teaching the young
the ways of the Lord. After the programme
had been carried out remarks were made by Sis-
ters E. B. and L. A. Wells, Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, M. G. Wells and Eliza Lyon. President
Clawson made closing remarks, and after singing
the benediction was pronounced by Master Alex.
C. Pyper. After the close all present were
served with delicious refreshments.
	ON Friday, April 24th, the annual meeting of
the Primary Association of the Thirteenth
Ward was held in the Assembly Rooms, Mrs.
L. A. Wells presiding. There were quite a large
number of children and several visitors present.
The minutes of the previous annual meeting and
report for the last year were read, and a pro-
gramme carried out, consisting of songs, organ
solo, accordoon solo, recitations, dialogues and
essays, questions answered and so forth. The
choice of the pieces given was particularly good
and worthy of mention, and excellent order was
observed by the little folks. Brief remarks were
made by Sisters E. C. Clawson, E. B. Wells, R.
Standring of Lehi, Bishop Milien Atwood and
Coun. Francis Platte. Prest. Welles also made
suitable concluding remarks. After singing "Our
Father in Heaven," etc., the meeting was dis-
missed with prayer by Tommie Sloan, who had
formerly been a member of the Association.
	WE had the pleasure of attending the annual
meeting of the Relief Society of Davis Stake,
held in the Farmington meeting house, Friday,
April 17th, Coun. Mary S. Clark presiding.
After the usual opening exercises and reading
of minutes and annual report, Sister Clark called
upon the Relief Society Presidents to report the
condition of the branch society over which they
presided. The reports were very good though
brief, and each one spoke as though earnestly
engaged in the duties pertaining to her calling.
Sister Phebe W. Woodruff of this city then ad-
dressed the congregation, giving some of her
experience in the Church for over fifty years,
imparting most excellent and wise instruction
pertaining to the times in which we are living.
Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden followed in a
similar strain, dwelling upon the duties of
mothers, and the care of children and family,
giving excellent spiritual and practical advice
and urging the sisters to persevere in the path of
duty and obedience, and never be weary in well
doing. Counselor Hesse then occupied a short
time, in which he spoke most encouragingly to
those engaged in the Relief Society, and gave
excellent advice to old and young. In the after-
noon others of the Presidents reported the So-
ciety over which they presided, after which
Sister E. B. Wells addressed the congregation,
dwelling, in the course of her remarks, upon
home industries, manufactures and literature,
the storing of grain, the Deseret Hospital, its
aims and needs, and other general matters.
Sisters Woodruff and Richards each spoke upon
subjects of special interest, and Sisters Leonard
and Barkdell occupied a short time, and Coun.
Clark spoke very earnestly and impressively
upon the signs of the times, and exhorted all to
keep the commandments of God. The confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Singing.
Benediction by Bro. Ezra T. Clark.


IN company with Sister Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, we visited Morgan to attend the confer-
ence of Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., held
there on Saturday and Sunday, April 26th and
27th. The Relief Society Conference on Saturday
held two sessions, Mrs. Lydia Rich presiding.
Prest. W. G. Smith and Counselor Samuel
Francis were present. Reports from all parts of
the Stake were given by the sisters who repre-
sented the several branches in the Stake. In-
teresting and Instructive remarks were made by
Sisters J. S. Richards, E. B. Wells, President
Smith and President Rich. The Second Coun.,
Sister Mary Jane Tomar, resigned her position
on account of having moved away, and Sister
Mary Ann Simmons was chosen by Prest. Rich
to fill the vacancy, and the name was presented
by Prest. W. G. Smith, and she was unanimous-
ly sustained. On Sunday the Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference convened in the new Stake Taber-
nacle, Sister Susannah Hiner presiding. There
was a very large assembly, and after the usual
exercises, minutes were read and the young
presidents gave in reports of the several Asso-
ciations. A quarterly manuscript paper entitled
"The Young Ladies' Journal," was read by Mrs.
Mary H. Welsh, which was a very pleasing
feature of the conference. The articles, which
were from all parts of the Stake, were very good
indeed, and reflected great credit on the several
contributors, and spoke well for the literary ad-
vancement of the young people. Addresses
were made by Prest, Hiner and Sisters E. B.
Wells and J. S. Richards, in which the young
girls were given motherly advice and instruc-
tion, and exhorted to purity of life and character,
and to preserve themselves in the paths of vir-
tue and holiness; to study the human system
and obtain knowledge from all good books, and
above all to cultivate the Spirit of God and as-
sist in the great work of the last days.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting was held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, on
Saturday, April 17th, at 2 p.m., as usual, Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing. Prayer by
Counselor B. W. Smith. Then singing. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved; also
minutes from the P. A. of the 21st, 15th and
16th Wards.
	Remarks by President Horne, who expressed
her regret that there were no minutes of the Y.
L. M. I. A. Referred to the trials which the
Saints are now experiencing, and the necessity
of keeping the commandments of God. Ad-
vised the sisters to exercise charity and bear
with each others faults and shortcomings, and
be comforters to all. Be sure and obey counsel,
as it was the only path of safety.
	President Horne called upon the Presidents
of the several branches of the Relief Society
present to express themselves, beginning with
Sister M. Chase of the First Ward, who had just
recently returned from Vermont, where she had
been for some months on a visit to her relatives.
	Sister Chase made a few remarks; said she
had been absent one year. Gave a brief account
of her visit, and expressed her desire to be faith-
ful and true to God and the principles of the
Gospel.
	Remarks calculated to strengthen and en-
courage the sisters were made by Sisters Rhoda
Fullmer, Jane Lawson and Sinah Bishop; the
last named recited a poem of her own composi-
tion. Sisters Player and Louisa Horne made a
few remarks, and one or two other sisters. Dr.
E. S. Barney spoke a short time, and endorsed
the remarks which had been made by the sis-
ters.
	Sisters Norman and Watmough bore their
testimonies, and then President Horne made


concluding remarks, exhorting the sisters to be
wise and obedient, and remember all clouds have
a silver lining. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, "Wake, O wake, the world from sleep-
ing!" etc. Benediction by Sister E.S. Taylor.


THE OTHER SIDE.

	O consistency, where hast thou hidden thy
face? Hundreds of widows were excluded from
voting at the polls on account of their belief,and
the Edmunds act, Section 9, reads thus: "Pro-
vided said board of five persons shall not
exclude any persons, otherwise eligible to vote,
from the polls, on account of any opinion such
persons may entertain on the subject of bigamy
and polygamy, nor shall they refuse to count
any such vote on account of the opinion of the
person casting it on the subject of bigamy or
polygamy."
	Question, to the law and the testimony. Can
a widow commit a crime without a man, bigamy
or polygamy? If not must she be punished by
the Edmunds law? And now I think it no
more than right that we get redress for being
wronged and deprived of our right of franchise
for three successive years, for by losing that
number of votes, unlawfully, the commissioners
thought to turn the balance of power into their
own hands and give the predominant party rule;
and they are our most bitter enemies. We
would like to have our case go before the public,
and see if their expression would not be, Give 
Utah's widows as much right as the Edmunds
law will allow, as well as to have it all on their
side to punish whom they please and how they
please, and we have the right to sue those par-
ties for damages, according to the letter of the
law, for they have broken it themselves, and
now they spit out their spite on one poor lame
woman for contempt of the law, because she
voted ignorantly, not knowing that the law
passed in March, and had cast in her vote, and
has to be put in bonds for perjury. What no-
bility of character! What magnanimous con-
duct! What a refining element has come into
our midst! The widows will soon get converted
to monogamy, these monogamist men are so
philanthropic in piecing out the law to Utah's
subjects.
	Now, if Mr. Edmunds will amend Sec. 9 and
make it read, Send all the Latter-day Saints to
prison without a scratch of the pen to prove
them guilty, or proper evidence.
	I should like to know how the law can prove
a marriage without a certificate of date and an
agent of ceremonies; and as the law was made
to punish offenders in this Church, married men
and women, how, in the name of common sense,
can unlawful cohabitation be proven without
seeing a man and his wife together? If this
law was made for the rest of Uncle Sam's
children, these very tenacious, overreaching,
virtuous, far-seeing, evil-minded men would
commence to cleanse and purify the element in
their cities, towns, villages and hamlets. This
would cost the government far less, and do
more good. The word says, "First clean the in-
side of the platter." We are on the outside. No
one need to suppose for a moment that anyone
outside of this Church can have the benefit of a
higher law of marriage, for no one holds the
authority but those whom God has appointed;
the same as Nathan, the Prophet, had a divine
right to give, or take wives to or from favored
men of God, that we all can read about in the
good old Bible, which we all have read a great
deal. Our sectarian friends, fearing we did not
read and comprehend the Bible, sent so many
to us, that we might be converted to its sublime
truths; we greatly admire such characters
as Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Samuel, Elkanah,
Hannah, David, Solomon, John the Revelator, who


writes about twelve names on the gates of the
new Jerusalem.
	A LOOKER ON.


COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.

	Recently Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's class in mid-
wifery assembled at her office, No. 18, Main St.
A number of these students had attended a
complete course of study, and complied with all
requirements necessary for a final examination,
which was conducted by Drs. H. J. Richards
and A. S. Bower.
	The following named ladies passed successful-
ly and received certifitates of study in this im-
portant branch: Mrs. Martha Geddes, Plain
City' Weber Co., Julia A. McDonald, Mesa
City, Arizona, Cally Justeson, Spring City,
Sanpete Co., Lizzie H. Shipp and Jennie Jacob-
sen, Salt Lake City. Mrs. Elizabeth Kieser and
Mary Olsen passed their examination Dec. last.
	After these preliminary exercises refreshments
were served, followed by social conversation,
speeches, songs, etc., closing with an address
by Dr. E. R. Shipp to the young accoucheurs,
who were about to depart for their homes--some
to distant parts.

	After months of such intimate association in
the investigation of a science in which we, as
women, are so particularly interested, it is but
natural that we should become more than or-
dinarily interested in each other. The ties of
friendship become more firmly wedded by a
knowledge of each others mental capacitie[-], and
by intellectual interchange of thoughts and
ideas; indeed, I think that in our future lives we
will each have many pleasing reminiscences of
these instructive interviews.
	As the hour of separation approaches my
thoughts and feelings go forth to you with a
species of maternal solicitude, and I feel I can-
not let you pass from under my earnest tute-
lage without a few parting words.
	I trust the principles that have been inculca-
ted in your minds may remain with you and
serve you faithfully in case of every emergency;
and I would suggest that the completion of this
course of study be not the finale of your investi-
gations, but as your knowledge increases, and
judgment improves with practical experience,
that you keep your minds bright and active by
continued research—study the latest and best
works, and keep posted in the medical literature
of the day, particularly that pertaining to your
special branch. Without constant study we
are liable to grow dull and rusty and out of date,
and lose the benefit of the wonderful advance
made in science from year to year.
	Your woman's intuition will naturally teach
you many of your duties as obstetricians, your
own sensitiveness and delicacy of nature will
tend to gentleness and refinement in the man-
agement and treatment of those requiring your
services.
	Often the medical attendant, becomes the re-
cipient of confidences, frequently of the most
delicate and private character. Forget not this
sacredness—never make them the subjects of
gossip, and under no circumstances repeat them
to the annoyance of your patients and to your
own lasting discredit.
	The life of a physician is proverbially one of
hardship and anxiety, but to the thoroughly
educated and conscientious practitioner there is
much satisfaction and pleasure mingled there-
with; we experience a sweet recompense through
every day of our lives by the consciousness that
we have relieved suffering, soothed pain, and
perchance prolonged or saved life.
	Never allow personal interest, comfort, inclina-
tion or convenience to sway you in your duties
to your patients. If circumstances prevent your


giving that attention it is your duly to give, let
some one else take the case. Remember the
words quoted by our mutual favorite, Dr. F.
Barker. "There are moments that are worth
more than years. A sick man may have the
unwearied attendance of his physician for
weeks, and then may perish in a moment, be-
cause he is not by."
	Somewhere I have read that the great Jennie
Lind, renowned as well for her sweet and affable
nature as for her gift of song, has been said to
have made "a conscience of her art." She al-
ways did her best; was just as desirious to excel
and please when singing to a few poor peasant
children, as when performing before the im-
mense audiences of the world.
	If there is any profession on the earth who
should make a conscience of their art, it is most
assuredly the one you have chosen. Think of
the sacred charge submitted to our care—human
lives! To the Great Author of this mortal ex-
istence, one life is just as precious as another.
He prizes the life of the poor and the lowly as
much as that of the rich and affluent. Then let
us never be influenced in our profession as medi-
cal attendants by the wealth or position of our
patrons.
	While lingering on the last good bye, I would
fain express to you the depth of my affection
and interest, and my earnest desire for your fu-
ture success and prosperity. Wherever you
may sojourn my sympathy and love, my sincere
faith and prayers will accompany you.
	As a last admonition I would say, Be true to
what your own hearts tell you is just and right,
be faithful in the discharge of every duty to
your fellow creatures, and ever loyal to your
God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MESA, ARIZONA.
	Our Relief Society Stake Conference was
held to-day in the Relief Society Hall, in Mesa,
President E. G. McDonald presiding. After
the usual opening exercises a report of the
various branches was given, showing consider-
able improvement in good works since our last
conference. Quite a number of the sisters
were called upon, who cheerfully responded,
encouraging all to work works of righteous-
ness.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald then instructed the
conference in their duties as teachers, mothers
and Saints, after which the statistical and finan-
cial reports were read.
	Prest. Chas. I. Robson, Bishops Pomeroy and
O. M. Stewart and Elder J. M. Lewis were
called upon, all of whom encouraged the sis-
ters in their work of charity.
	The subject of the silk industry was dwelt
upon, which was of great importance to us, as
a number of the sisters propose engaging in
that pleasant and profitable labor this season.
	An excellent spirit prevailed during our
conference, and all felt well paid for attending.
		ADDIE PASSEY, Secretary.

CACHE STAKE.
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Cache
Stake was held in the tabernacle, March 7th,
1885, Prest. Carrie M. C. Smith presiding
There were present on the stand Counselor Ida
T. Langton, Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. Howard
and Mary Freeze.
	In the forenoon the Presidents of the vari-
ous wards gave verbal reports of their associa-
tions, all of which were highly satisfactory,
after which Sister Freeze said: "There are
enough sisters present to sow the good seed in
every association. There is no happiness out-
side of the Gospel. Be obedient and prayerful,
and learn in youth that the Spirit of God
brings happiness."

[Column 2]

	In the afternoon the financial and statistical
report was read by Sister Martineau, after
which were some exercises indicative of the
work done during the winter. The following
exercises may be mentioned: The Prophecy
of Samuel the Lamanite, from the Book of
Mormon, was very well rendered. O. F. Whit-
ney's "Christmas Idyl" was excellently recited,
and a very good manuscript paper was read.
	Sister Taylor said she was pleased with the
reports and exercises; could note an improve-
ment since last conference. "In your meetings
bear your testimonies, and respond to every
call. Learn to think and write your thoughts
for your manuscript papers; sustain home in-
dustries; obey counsel; seek for excellence. All
our Mutual Improvement work must be found-
ed on the spiritual.
	Prest C. O. Card said he had enjoyed the
time spent in the meeting. "The sisters have
duties to perform as Latter-day Saints, and
they should not shirk them, thinking they can
do nothing outside of home. Be willing to as-
sist in any public labor, and do not wish to re-
sign if called to assist in the Young Ladies'
Associations, or Relief Society. Attend
meetings and be faithful, and you will be
blessed in your homes and in your lives.
	After the reading of the following resolu-
tions, by the Prest., the conference was ad-
journed:
	Whereas, the day is now at our doors when
the enemies of Zion are arrayed against her,
and boldly declare their intentions of forcing
us, as a religious body, to relinquish that
which is dearer than life itself, depriving the
children of holy wedlock of honorable paren-
tage, and our parents of those inherent rights
that were given by God to His children—
	Therefore, We, the daughters of these noble
men and women, emphatically affirm that we
are.
	Resolved to prove ourselves worthy of our
parentage and cause, by patronizing, conscien-
tiously and disinterestedly, our home industries
and institutions, thereby proving our faith by
our works.
	Resolved, That we will endeavor to further
the interest of our own cause by curtailing our
needless wants, and strive, by industry and
economy, to bring prosperity again to our doors,
and become a self-sustaining people, as we have
been counseled from the earliest period of our
history in these valleys.
	Resolved, That as members of the Y. L. M.
I. A., we will try to set an example worthy of
imitation, endeavor to have our adornings the
workmanship of our own hands, and ever bear
in mind, that to obtain the blessings we desire,
we must merit them by keeping the command-
ments of God.
		ELLEN BARBER, Cor. Secretary.

JUAB STAKE.
	The Primary and Young Ladies' Associa-
tions of Juab Stake held their confernece in
the meeting house, March 15th, 1885. The
Primaries occupied the morning meeting, Stake
Prest., Hannah Grover, presiding. The Sab-
bath School choir sang the two opening hymns.
Prayer was offered by Bro. Chas. Sperry. The
minutes of the last conference were read and
approved, also the financial and statistical re-
ports of each of the associations.
	A programme, consisting of recitations, songs,
etc., was successfully executed by the children.
Following these exercises Sister M. E. Neff
represented the First Ward of Nephi as being
in a healthy condition both temporally and
spiritually; also spoke of mental and moral
culture. This was followed by A. C. Bigler
reporting the Second Ward of Nephi, and
Esther Gardner that of Levan. Then Prest.
Paxman announced that Prest. Hannah Grover
had been called to labor in another field, and

[Column 3]

as a consequence would resign all of the offices
held by her here.
	Sister Grover gave a valedictory address—
said it was hard for her to resign her offices, be-
cause she had taken so much pleasure in her
labors and associations with the Primaries.
Gave some good instruction to the children, and
ever prayed for their welfare.
	The Stake Presidency is now as follows:
M. A. Cazier, Prest., Lizzie G. McCune and A.
C. Bigler, Counselors, L. A. Cazier, Secretary
and Treasurer.
	Conference adjourned. Singing, Benedic-
tion by Bishop John Haws of Mona.
	The Young Ladies' Improvement Associa-
tion occupied the afternoon, meeting commenc-
ing at two p.m., Stake Prest., M. E. Teasdale,
presiding. After the usual opening exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes of the pre-
vious conference were read and approved; also
statistical and financial reports of the county.
During the administration of the sacrament
the choir sang a few appropriate verses. The
programme consisted of the reading of the
Young Ladies' Journal, songs and addresses,
all of which were given in an intelligent man-
ner by the members.
	Prest. Paxman then spoke of Sister Grover
being called to labor in the Temple at Logan,
therefore making it necessary for her to resign
her position as Coun. to the Stake Prest. Ex-
pressed his regret at having to part with so
earnest and zealous a laborer as Sister H.
Grover had been in this position.
	Sister Grover then tendered her resignation
and made a few appropriate remarks relative
to her association with the young people of
Juab Stake. Expressed her regret at having
to separate from them, and closed her re-
marks by blessing them and wishing them to
still keep her in remembrance and be her
friends.
	Prest. Teasdale gave the spiritual report of
the branch Associations. Testified to the good
works of sister Grover, and felt that she could
not say enough in her praise.
	Prest. Paxman made a few closing remarks,
containing an exhortation to the young to im-
prove themselves mentally, physically and
not to engage in the service of the adversary.
	Miss Kate Love was then chosen as First
Counselor to Prest. Teasdale, and Miss Mary
Linton as Second Counselor to fill the vacancy,
caused by the removal of M. A. Cazier. to the
Stake Presidency of the Primaries. The officers
of the Associations were then presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, "Come we that love the Lord," etc. Bene-
diction by Bishop Warner of Nephi.
	 M. E. ORD, Stake Secretary,
	 L. A. CAZIER, Secretary of Primaries.

WEBER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Weber Stake was held in the Taber-
nacle, Ogden, Thursday, March 12, 1885,
commencing at 10 o'clock a.m., Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. Singing, "On the moun-
tain tops," etc. Prayer by Elder W. S.
Childs. "Singing, "Let us pray, gladly pray,"
etc. Minutes of previous conference and re-
ports from nearly all the branches in Weber
Co. were read,showing the healthy condition of
the entire Society in that stake.
	Prest. Richards made a few encouraging re-
marks; alluded to the angels taking notes of
our good deeds, and our meeting together, and
of all things transpiring in our midst; urged
the people to look on the bright side and be
full of hope and joy, and remember that God
will over rule everything for the upbuilding
of His kingdom upon the earth. She desired
that we might have humility and faith to en-
dure all the trials necessary for our exalta-
tion.


Sister Eliza R. S. Smith made a most elo-
quent and stirring address, in which she inclu-
ded every blessing, duty and privilege in the
life of a Latter-day Saint, and earnestly urged
all to devote every faculty and all the means
they might accumulate to the upbuilding of
the kingdom of God, to have no selfish inter-
ests for come life or come death, to fulfill the
will of our Heavenly Father was the most im-
portant work in which any one could be en-
gaged.  Said when asked the question "Sister
Eliza, what do you think of the times?" she re-
plied, “I think they are glorious!” I am proud
of those who are worthy to suffer for the Gos-
pel’s sake, not counting their persecutions dear
for Christ’s sake; Said this is only the begin-
ning; we may round up our shoulders and bear
it, for there is a purpose in it.  Do our ene-
mies do more to us than they did to Jesus?
Will we be called to suffer any more than He
did—is there any fear of it?  He will have a
tried people, and He has to make use of some
very rough tools to refine and polish us; we
have got to be in a different condition as a
people before He can come out in judgment as
he has predicted.  Every one that maintains
his or her integrity to the kingdom of God will
see the most magnificent blessings will be
poured out upon the Saints.  Made some state-
ments in regard to the persecutions in Kirtland,
Missouri and Nauvoo, and how every trial had
proved a blessing in the end, though it was
not apparent, while passing under the rod, and
made many other references to the conditions
which brought about persecution; said she
wanted to see Zion independent, grow and put
oh her beautiful garments; the kingdom of
God will protect all good citizens, shield and
protect virtue, innocence and righteousness.
Had thought in the past these things would not
be in her day, but rejoiced that she had lived
to see the events now transpiring. Exhorted
all to purify their own hearts and live as be-
come sons and daughters of the Most High,and
gave much special instruction for the benefit of
those who desire to live lives of purity and
holiness, and alluded to her once having had a
foretaste of the blessedness and happiness the
Saints will enjoy when they become as one.
	Singing, "O! ye mountains high," etc. Bene-
diciton by Bro. Wm. Middleton.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. Singing,“Come all
ye sons of Zion.” Prayer by Bishop McQuarrie.
Singing, “The trials of the present day,” etc.
	Sister E. R. S. S. spoke appreciatingly of
the efforts and labors of the secretaries, and
blessed those who were willing to come for-
ward and act in that office; she also spoke of
the study of obstetrics, and the need of compe-
tent help in this profession, and advised the
young sisters to study and inform themselves
for their own benefit, if even they never should
be called to practice; said an excellent offer
had been made to those who wished to study,
by one of our sisters in Salt Lake—Maggie C.
Shipp—her terms were, two lectures a day for
ten weeks, $10.  Made some other remarks re-
lating the circumstances now surrounding
the people, and the terrible events transpiring
in the earth.
	The meeting was afterwards addressed by
Coun. C. F. Middleton,Coun. Hattie C. Brown,
Sister Sarah Herrick, Prest. of Y. L. M. I. A.
of Weber Stake, Sister E. B. Wells of Salt
Lake City, Martha Critchelow, Prest. R. S.
First Ward, Ogden, Nancy M. Tracy, Prest.
R. S. Huntsville, Bishop McQuarrie, Bishop
Wallace and one or two others, upon subjects
of vital importnace to the Saints. 
	[-]rest Richards made some excellent re-
marks at the close, thought there had been a
feast of good things during the meetings.
	Adjourned the conference for three months.
Singing, "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion!"
Benediction by Coun. Middleton.
	E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	MANASSA, Colorado.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is spring of the year, and all hands are
busy putting in crops and gardens; the young
trees and plants are budding, and nature has
just begun to put on her robe of green, which
makes times lively and every one to feel to
welcome the spring of the year.
	Some of us went to Utah last fall—rather on
business than pleasure—were much delighted
with our visit, and pleased to see the temple
and many other places of interest to the Lat-
ter-day Saints, but upon returning home were
glad to see this beautiful valley, and felt like
we were coming home, and felt satisfied with
our home in this new country, and believe, if
we will persevere, we can yet make it to blos-
som as Utah does, but then, perhaps, our ene-
mies will be more anxious to take it away from
us. As yet they do not seem to be very
greedy; it may be because this is such a large
valley and so much land laying idle just as
good as ours.
	It does seem as though we have been special-
ly favored thus far—more than some of our
brethren and sisters in other localities, for
which we feel thankful. I refer to those who
have been persecuted for the sake of their re-
ligion, and have been tried and imprisoned for
adhering to the principle of Polygamy. One
of our brethren had been tried, but those who
had made such a loud noise, crying, "adultery,
fornication," were not able to prove anything,
therefore the case was thrown out of court,
and we are left once more to attend to our own
business in peace, which we can do without
help from our enemies.
	It seems that our worst enemies here are
those who have once borne their testimony to
the truth, but have forgotten their covenant
and have turned away, and are now making
willing tools of themselves in the hands of the
devil to accomplish his purposes. The Gen-
tiles by whom we are surrounded have thus
far treated us very kindly. The Saints are
becoming more united. our Sunday Schools,
Young People's Associations and Relief Socie-
ty are doing well. Sister Eliza M. Smith is
Stake President of our Relief Society—we
have great faith and confidence in her ability
as an energetic leader and faithful Latter-day
Saint. Sister Hannah Christenson is Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of this ward under
whose management it is doing well. The sis-
ters all seem to be alive to their duties, and 
can always find plenty to do, for it seems to
fall to our lot to have a great many needy
among us continually, and can always find an
object on which to bestow our charity.
	S. T. B.

	MT. CARMEL, March 18th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is a very small and remote settlement,
nevertheless the Saints manifest a desire to
press forward in the great and glorious work
in which we are engaged. I have read of
many troubles experienced by our old ances-
tors of this Church, and they make my heart
bleed, but what cares the enemy for that? The
persecution that has been and is, to all appear-
ance, likely to be again, in part, lest the un-
seen, but ever confiding hand of God, inter-
feres, brings forcibly to my mind, we are the
chosen people of the Lord, for if we were of
the world, the world would love us; but just the
reverse, we are not worldly and we care not
for the world; we trust in God for protection,
for He has called us out from Babylon, and if
the whole world turn against us we will not
go back nor follow her ways. We have every
evidence needful, that an honest heart can de-

[Column 2]

sire to substantiate the fact that this is the 
Kingdom that Daniel saw many hundred years
ago. See its advancement and prosperity, not-
withstanding the many severe trials the Saints
have had to pass through. It does seem to 
me that every hard blow the enemy makes is
only adding fuel to the fire. It may not seem
so to all. These troubles are not very desirable,
but perhaps necessary to stir up and make us
know who we are. It has been said that afflic-
tions, though they seem severe, in mercy oft
are sent. They stopped the prodigal's career,
and caused him to repent.
	This long while the wheat and tares have
been growing together; perhaps the Lord de-
signs a separation, and He is permitting the
enemy to do the work, or rather commence it;
we know our Father can do his own work, and
in His own due time He will accomplish His
great design.
	Satan has much power, and yet it is limited
in comparison to that of our Heavenly Father.
Oh! ye foul ambassadors of Satan, stop and
think before too late. Know ye not that this
earth and the fulness thereof is the Lord's?
Will ye not understand He has spoken from
the heavens in these last days, and commanded
His people, and they will obey His voice? If
not, it is because ye are straining at a gnat and
swallowing a camel.
	Go on ye Saints of the Lord! God is our
shield, director and protector; in Him we
trust, and while we live, we live unto Him, and
when we die, we die unto Him.
	M. E. B.


EXTRACTS.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	Thinking the following items might be read
with interest, I send them to you:
		L. G. R.
	OAKLEY, Cassia Co., I. T., March, 1885.
MY DARLING LULA:
	I write in answer to your's received the 1st
inst.		*	*	There is some very excel-
lent land in this part of the country; fiin, sandy
loam, no rocks in it; if there were plenty of
water for it nothing could be better. It looks
as though to put the seeds into the ground
would be all that was necessary to have a good
crop; and it would be, with sufficient rain fall,
but that does not come, and when the sun gets
hot and the weather dry, the vegetation would
wither and die. But it will not be many years
before the Lord will bless the land for the
righteous' sake; yea, all the land, as He has al-
ready blessed portions of it, and He will send
the rain in the season thereof; all we need is to
know that we are worthy before the Lord, and
all will be well with us.	*	*	I do not
know what the wonderful (?) works of the
late Legislature in this Territory will amount
to.
	The men folks are plowing their land, work-
ing in canyons, etc., as if nothing unusual had
happened. Well, there are good, honest, vir-
tuous Latter-day Saints here, as well as in
other places, and doubtless they need stirring 
up the same as the rest, that they might awake
and put on the armor of righteousness, repent
of their follies and carelessness and be sure
that their lamps are trimmed and burning.
	It is quite a long way from here to where 
our meetings are held, and I cannot go very
often. I miss the meetings very much, and
the society of my dear sisters there in the city,
although we have kind, agreeable and very
hospitable neighbors here. I enjoy the quiet of
my snug little room, out would feel all the
more contented if all my beloved children
were near enough that I could see them often;
but the peaee of God abides in my heart, and I
am blessed, no matter where my lot is cast,


When the Lord blesses us so greatly with His
peace and love, we can afford to wait for a ful-
ness of joy and blessings in the eternal world,
which we never could obtain in this.	*	*
	I am so weak and trembling, I have been
fearful that I should have to give up writing
altogether, which would seem a great trial to
me. There are many of my friends whom I
should like to communicate with by letter, but
I am not able to do so.
	You will please present my kindest love to
our dear Sisters Show and Wells, and all the
rest, when you see them. The sisters of the
Twentieth Ward are always remembered.
	That you and all my dear children may be
ever faithful to the cause of truth, is the con-
stant prayer of
	Your affectionate mother,
		S. K. GREENE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS.

	Whereas, It becomes our duty to part with
and accept the resignation of our esteemed
friend, Mrs. Moody, who has acted as President
of the Thatcher and Layton Wards during the
past year, and who feels the task too great to
do justice to both places, in her stead have
been placed Mrs. Layton, as President, Mrs.
Monteath and Mrs. Madsen, as Counselors.
	Resolved, That we, the sisters of the Lay-
ton Ward, esteem her as a good president and
wise counselor, and that we will ever appreciate
her kindness, and endeavor to practice her
good teachings. We are pleased to present to
her a beautiful picture of our much loved
Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum
Smith. And now, dear editor, if you will be
patient with us for a few moments and follow
us in your mind's eye we will escort her to a
neighboring house,and when the door is opened
judge of her surprise and pleasure at beholding
a table spread with the good things of the land,
among which can be seen a dish of nice home
produced honey-comb, which, in this desert
land, is not only very pleasing to the eye, but
to the taste also.
	We will leave them to enjoy the surprise,
with a bevy of beautiful girls to wait on them.
		MRS. ROXANA WALKER,
		MRS. NANCY PEEL,
		MRS. HARRIET WARNER,
		MRS. ANNIE PACKER.
	Layton, Arizona, April 2nd, 1885.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at her residence, in Payson Ward, Utah Co.,
U. T., Fanny Coombs, wife of Isaiah M. Coombs, March 
14th, 1885, aged forty-two years, nine months and eight 
days.
	She received the Gospel at Cincinnati, O., where she,
with mother and sisters, were baptized by Elder John
Banks, April 24th, 1855. Deceased was married to
Isaiah M. Coombs July 23th, 1858; was the mother of 
fourteen children, all living except three, who died in
infancy. She embraced and lived up to every principle
that God has revealed for the exaltation of woman
Was endeared not only to her family, but to all who
knew her. Had strong faith in the ordinances of the
Church, and when in the agonies of death sang, "We
thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	We, the members, of the Payson Ward, Relief Society,
Utah Stake, U. T., unanimously adopt the following:
	Whereas, God in His wisdom has seen fit to call from
our midst by the hand of death our much loved and 
worthy Secretary, of the 3rd District, and,
	Whereas, Her labors in our Society have been faith-
fully performed, we feel to recognize and respect her
virtues among us; therefore, be it
	Resovled, That we do recognize in the death of our
sister, Fanny Coombs, the loss of a faithful member in
our Society.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize

[Column 2]

with the bereaved husband, children, mother, sisters,
relatives and friends.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
records, that a copy of them be sent to the bereaved
husband, and also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		J. B. SIMONS,
		AGNES DOUGLAS,
		M. A. HARDY.

	It now becomes our painful duty to announce the
death of our beloved associate, Sister Sarah Mariah
Wadsworth, who departed this life March 5th, 1885,
after a brief illness of twenty-four hours. She was the
daughter of Thomas S. and Eliza J. Terry, born at
Hebron, Washington Co., September 13th, 1865, and
was married to George William Wadsworth November
16th, 1882.
	She was Second Counselor in the Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association of Panacca, which posi-
tion she faithfully filled for one year. She was one of
the most amiable of her sex, and was beloved by all
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance.
	The deceased was a loving wife and mother. She
leaves a husband and two children, the youngest but
one day old, and a host of friends who deeply mourn
her loss.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister
Sarah Mariah Wadsworth, by the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Association of Panaca.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sis-
ter, we feel that we have lost a faithful and worthy
member of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors and
great devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a kind wife and affectionate
mother.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
records, and a copy be presented to the bereaved family,
also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
		MARY JANE LEE, President,
		CHRISSIE ZYPUS, Secretary.
	Panaca, Nevada, April 10, 1885.

	In a recent meeting of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Association of Goshen a committee was ap-
pointed to draw up resolutions of condolence to the
memory of Miss Rosetta Cole, daughter of Benjamin and 
Mary Cole, who departed this life on the 10th inst., at 
the early age of sixteen. The following is a copy pre-
sented for publication.

		  RESOLUTIONS OF CONDOLENCE.

	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much esteemed sister and co-laborer in the cause
of truth, to finish the labor so nobly begun on this earth
in a higher sphere, we, the members of this Association,
offer our heart felt sympathy to the bereaved parents
and freinds of the deceased, and although her loss is
keenly felt, both as a faithful member of the Associa-
tion and a devoted daughter, we trust the parents will
feel reconciled, knowing that she was taken from a
world of sorrow by a just and merciful God.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolntions be placed
upon the records of the Association, and that one be
presented to the bereaved parents.
				M JAMESON,
	Committee.	M. A. MADESN,
				A. M. NELSON.


[Column 1]
	Special Notice.

	In order to accomodate a number of persons who
desire to joing my Obstetric Class, but cannot commence
in May, I have concluded not to start my Class until
later, when due notice will be given.

A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY

Dr. Maggie [-] Shipp
	Will commence a class in her office on May 1, 1885;
a term consists of ten weeks. Two lectures every day,
Saturdays excepted.
Tuition a Term; $10.00.	Books, $13.00
	Dr. Shipp will remain in the city, and can be found at
her office and residence, 66 S. First West Street.

[Column 2]
		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
	SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

	Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gro[-]-
	grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
	Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
	MRS. B. P. MUSSER.
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road

FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
	MILLINERY.
	Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on  short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306 SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

