VOL. 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1885.	NO. 22.


ADIEU FOR A SEASON.

BY M. J. TANNER.

I have longed from my nest to go forth,
	From my perch in these mountain tops free;
To travel new paths of the earth
	The grandeur and beauty to see.

For lo, there's a voice from the cast,
	Where the glow of the sunrise is seen,
And it reaches these valleys of peace
	Where the myrtle and ivy are green.

And a voice lingers oft in my dreams,
	'Tis the voice of affection and love.
And so sweet is the echo, it seems
	That my heart is quite willing to rove.

As the dove that set forth from the ark,
	Its foot on the mountain to try,
May I ever return to my bark
	With the olive-leaf waving on high.

I have dwelt in these valleys so green,
	And my feet on the mountains have trod;
On the heights and the depths I have seen
	To impress of nature and God.

The strom king has raged fierce and wild,
	And the torrents have foamed in their wrath;
But the sun on the morrow has smiled
	And shone on the desolate path.

And 'tis thus with the passions of man;
	They may rage for awhile fierce and free,
But his spirit will long for a calm,
	Though the track of the tempest we see.

And the strength of his might will go forth,
	And the sound of his voice will be heard,
And his genius will cover the earth,
	Nor shrink at the might of his word.

But oh! there's a power on high,
	Omnipotent, steadfast and true;
The strength of his will to defy,
	And the might of his hand to undo.

I will trust that Omnipotent power,
	Which doeth all things wise and well;
He will guard o'er my steps every hour,
	And hold my frail life with His spell.

I will go from the rock and the glen
	That shadowed the home of my youth,
Where the home of my childhood has been
	In the shelter of honor and truth.

And while in the world I would roam,
	Like a bird that has flown from her nest,
My heart lingers still with my home,
	And I carry its love in my breast;

For I know that wherever I go,
	And whatever my calling may be,
I know that a voice, soft and low,
	Will ever be whispering to me.

And the sound of its echo will last
	When the voice that I list for has fled.
When the heart in its silence has passed
	Through the shadows that close o'er the dead.

Then let me go forth if I will,
	With my feet amid strangers to stray,
My heart will return to you still,
	To the friends that I love, far away

And then when my steps shall return,
	These green, sunny valleys to view,
My heart with emotion will burn,
	And my spirit will ever be true.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	Bro. Joseph and the brethren in Kirtland
were making efforts to raise volunteers, to go
up to Zion to assist the Church in the west.
They traveled through different branches of
the Church, and stopped at Bro. Nickerson's.
Joseph says: "We called the Church together
and related unto them what had happened to
our brethren in Zion, and opened to them the
prophecies and revelations concerning the
order of the gathering to Zion, and the means
of her redemption; and I prophecied to them,
and the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon
them, and with all readiness the young and
middle aged volunteered for Zion."	*	*
	The great burden that seemed to rest upon
Brother Joseph at this time was the welfare
and deliverance of Zion. His prayers were
offered up to his God continually in behalf of
her children, who were afflicted, and wander-
ing as outcasts from their homes in this boasted
land of freedom.
	While the brethren in Kirtland were trying
to raise a company to go to Missouri to deliver
Zion, the Saints in Zion were writing and re-
ceiving communications from the governor and
other officers of the State to obtain redress for
grievances; but, as the sequel shows, it availed
them nothing.
	Although the Saints, or most of them, had
left Jackson County, persecution did not en-
tirely cease. Joseph, with Zion's camp, was
now on his way to Missouri.
	"Monday, June 16th, 1834. The citizens of
Clay County, to the number of eight hundred
or a thousand, among whom were the brethren,
assembled at the Court House in Liberty
agreeably to the request of Judge Ryland, and
a deputation from Jackson, who presented the
following;
	"Propositions of the people of Jackson County
to the Mormons. The undersigned committee,
being fully authorized by the people of Jack-
son County, hereby propose to the Mormons
that they will buy all the land that the said
Mormons own in the County of Jackson, and
also all the improvements which the said Mor-
mons had on any of the public lands in said
County of Jackson, as they existed before the
first disturbance between the people of Jackson
and the Mormons, and for such as they have
made since.	*	*	(Read in Joseph
Smith's History.)
	On presentation of the foregoing Samuel C.
Owens made a flaming war speech, and Gen,
Doniphan replied on the side of peace. The
Rev. M, Riley, a Baptist Priest, made a hot
speech against the Mormons, and said, "The
Mormons have lived long enough in Clay Co.,
and they must either clear out or be cleared
out." Turnham, the moderater of the meet-
ing, answered in a masterly manner, saying,
"Let us be Republicans; let us honor our coun-
try and not disgrace it like Jackson County.
For God's sake don't disfranchsie or drive
away the Mormons. They are better citizens
than many of the old inhabitants."
	Gen. Doniphan exclaimed, "That's a fact;
and as the Mormons have armed themselves,
if they don't fight they are cowards. I love
to hear that they have brethren coming to thier
assistance. Greater love can no man show

[Column 2]

than he who lays down his life for his breth-
ren."
	At this critical instant the cocking of pistols
and jingle of the implements of death, denoted
desperation. One motioned "adjourn!" another
"go on!" and in the midst of this awful crisis a
person bawled into the door, "A man stabbed."
The mass instantly rushed out to the spot, in
hopes, as some said, that one d—d Mormon
had got killed; but as good luck would have it,
only one Missourian had dirked another. (One
Calbert, a blacksmith, had stabbed one Wales,
who had previously whipped one Mormon
nearly to death, and boasted of whipping many
more.) The wound was dangerous, and as if
the Lord was there, it seemed as though the
occurrence was necessary to break up the meet-
ing without further bloodshed, and gave the
Saints a further chance to consult what would
be most advisable in such a critical instant, and
they immediately penned the following answer
to the propositions from Jackson County, pre-
sented by Owens, etc."
	"Gentlemen: Your proposition for an ad-
justment of the difficulties between the citizens
of Jackson County and the Mormons, is be-
fore us, and as explained to you in the Court
House this day,we are not authorized to say to
you that our brethren will submit to your pro-
posals; but we agree to spread general notice,
and call a meeting of our people in all, the
present week, and lay before you an answer as
soon as Saturday or Monday next. We can
say for ourselves, and in behalf of our breth-
ren, that peace is what we desire, and what we
are disposed to cultivate with all men; and to
effect peace we feel disposed to use all our in-
fluence, as far as would be required at our
hands, as free born citizens of these United
States; and as fears have been expressed that
we designed hostilities against the inhabitants
of Jackson County, we hereby pledge our-
selves to them, and to the hospitable citizens of
Clay County, that we will not, and neither
have designed, as a people, to commence hos-
tilities against the aforsaid citizens of Jackson
County, or any other people."	*	*	*
	It may be be thought, at first view, that the
mob committee made a fair proposition to the
Saints in offering to buy their lands at one
hundred per. cent, in thirty days, and offering
theirs on the same terms; but when it is under-
stood that the mob held possession of a much
larger quantity of land than the Saints, and
that they only offered thirty days for the pay-
ment, having previously robbed them of nearly
everything, it will be readily seen that they
were only making a sham to cover their previ-
ous unlawful conduct; but the tempest of an
immediate conflict seemed to be checked, and
the Jackson mob,to the number of about fifteen,
with Samuel C. Owens and James Campbell at
their head, started for Independance, Jackson
County, to raise an army to meet me (Joseph)
before I could get into Clay County. Campbell
swore, as he adjusted his pistols in his holsters,
"The eagles and turkey buzzards shall eat
my flesh if I do not fix Joe Smith and his
army so that their skins will not hold shucks,
before two days are passed." They went to
the ferry and undertook to cross the Missouri
River, after dusk, and the angel of God saw
fit to sink the boat, about the middle of the
river, and seven out of twelve that attempted
to cross, were drowned. Thus suddenly and
justly went they to their own place by water.
Campbell was among the missing. He floated


down the river some four miles, and lodged
upon a pile of drift wood, where the eagles,
buzzards, ravens, crows and wild animals ate
his, flesh from his bones, to fulfill his own
words, and left him a, horrible looking skeleton
of God's vengeance, which was discovered about
three weeks after by one Mr. Purtle. Owens
saved his life only after floating four miles
down the stream, where he lodged upon an
island, swam off naked about daylight, bor-
rowed a mantle to hide his shame, and slipped
home rather shy of the vengeance of God."
	"We (Zion's camp) were threatened that we
should not pass through Richmond, and it was
reported that an army lay in wait to intercept
us."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	The incidents copied from my husband's
journal will probably call up many a reminis-
cence in the minds of those who took part in
the scenes that were dotted down during the
journey and sojourn of the Latter-day Saints
in the wilderness. The following he wrote:
	"January 26th. A meeting of the second
company, under H. C. Kimball, was held at
the council house at 10 p.m.. I arose and
read the names of those who joined the com-
pany, also those who had given in a list of
their property. President Young then moved
that Bro. Kimball nominate his own officers,
which he proceeded to do. After reading the
names of those who were elected unanimously,
each named individual spoke, returning their
thanks to the brethren for the honor conferred
upon them—stating their intention to magnify
their office. The captains of fifties were en-
joined to organize their companies and appoint
captains of tens.
	"Afterwards Bro. Kimball spoke at some
length, using the parable of a vessel being
cracked and remoulded into its proper shape
by the hands of the potter. "Every one has got
to take an equal share of the burden of taking
on the poor, etc. I want those who constitute
the officers in my company should act as
fathers in Israel, and accomodate themselves to
the minds and wishes of the people. I feel,
sometimes, as though, like a barrel, I should
burst with care and anxiety for the brethren,
and would like an additional band fastened to
me. There has got to be a pioneer company
to start from here, and those who can stay will
stay, and this to be subject to the decision of
the presidents. Those who stay will remain to
cultivate the ground. It is necessary for
every one to prepare himself with axle trees to
their wagons, etc, inasmuch as there is no tim-
ber for a long way after we leave here."	*	*
Meeting adjourned.
	He speaks of a party, including a part of
the quorum of seventies, which came off at the
council house the same day, commencing at
three o'clock p.m., and continuing till nearly
morning. Another one was held Wednesday
evening by others of the seventies, and on
Thursday evening, the latter, Horace speaks of
attending and most of my father's family.
There were many parties held there during the
winter, and a dancing school was started about
the 8th of February. In all these I had no
participation, being prostrated by sickness
from the middle of January until spring.
	On the 29th Horace mentions a meeting
held at my father's house pursuant to agree-
ment, at 10 a.m. "The first thing taken into
consideration was to appoint a clerk Brother
James Sloan was elected to that office. An-
other thing stated by Bro Kimball was, that
those upon whom the duty principally devolved,

[Column 2]

i e, the Presidency and authority should travel
as nearly together as possible in one company,
in order that everything might be more con-
venient when they were obliged to assemble for
counsel.
	Brother Harrison Burgess came in and stated
that he had a line for Bro. Kimball, which
was the resignation of Bro. R.——of the office 
of captain of fifty. Bro. Kimball gave the
article of resignation to Father Cutler for his
disposal. Father Cutler observed that it
would be at the disposal of the captains of the
first company, where to place his men, and in
what order. Bro. Henry Herriman was elected
to the office of captain, first company. It was
concluded, through Bro. Kimball's suggestion,
to entitle our body "The Second Division of
the camp of Israel.	*	*	He said,
"It makes no difference where we are placed,
whether in the first, second or third company,
and that when he made the nomination of his
officers, he looked for those who would act as
fathers in Israel; and he wished them to treat
this people as a child, and nurse them and be
careful of their feelings." He told the breth-
ren it was their duty to get all the names they
could and just as soon as the hundreds filled
up, that there should be at least thirty men
drawn out of each for pioneers. Bro Kimball
observed that we need not depend on any regu-
lar order till we get organized in fifties, because
there would be draughts upon them for
pioneers, artillery, hunting, etc.
	After the officers had each chosen their cap-
tains of fifties, he says, "Bro. Kimball said,
'In traveling we should generally be governed
by circumstances,' and that he intended to imi-
tate President Young in his order of traveling,
and that it would be a long time before we
would be governed by any definite rule.	*	*
He knew the people were more tired on this
last journey than they ever were before, and
quoted the Carloss Granger story as illustrative
of the idea."
	Bro. Kimball observed that the reason of
Bro. R——'s resignation was that he had a
"calf" in the east, and that was hitched to
$1,500, and he wanted to go back and get it, and
take his family with him, because he is dis-
couraged, etc.; and he (Bro. Kimball) wants to
have the brethren hang on to him by the
prayer of faith. He proposed that we all, with
Father Cutler, bow down before the Lord—
touching the case of Bro. R—that he may be
tied up in his designs to go east and take his
family with him, which was accordingly done,
and the meeting was dismissed.


[first column]﻿
		CORRESPONDENCE.
		Pima, Arizona, March 18th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	I thought that I would write a few lines to
your little paper, thinking that it might be of
interest to some of my old friends that I have
not seen for a long time.
	I am living on the Gila River, in the far
south.  This is a lovely climate and the peo-
ple are doing well, and the most of them are
striving to live their religion.  The Relief So-
ciety, Mutual and Primary are in a flourishing
condition, and we have a good Sunday and
day school.  There are about one hundred
families in this ward, and there is room for a
great many more.
	Of course we are persecuted by our enemies
for the Gospel’s sake, and some that are keep-
ing the commandments of Go I have had to
leave their homes and cross the line;but we feel
to say, “God forgive them, for they know not
what they do.”
	The health of the people is good, and we
look for a good harvest this year.  The flowers
are in bloom and the fields look green and
everything is flourishing.
[second column]
Hoping, that through these few lines in your
paper, I may hear from some of my old friends,
that I often think have forgotten me, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					AGNES CROOKSTON.

		PITTSBURG,, Pa., March 12, 1885.
DEAR SISTER;
	I had intended writing sooner, but while
reading of the persecuting of the Saints it has
borne very heavily upon my mind, and I did
not feel like writing.
	The encroachment scheme is made a power-
ful engine for the destruction of happy homes.
When reading of the image set up to worship
by Nebuchadnezzar, and the people compelled
to worship the image, I wondered if Nebuchad-
nezzar came from Vermont with his encroach-
ment law.  Those who would not worship the
image had to suffer.  What are true-hearted
and loyal Saints placed within a felon’s cell for
to-day? The sequel will answer.  Do not good
men, holding the Holy Priesthood, leave their
peaceful, happy homes, their lovmg wives and
children to lift their warning voice of the im-
pending judgments that hang perpendicular
over the nations, and pointing out a way of
escape; and what follows then? We find, often,
that soon there is a Reverend, a live-blood-
hound, on his track with a mob, to slay him;
and he has to hide and run, sleeping in barns,
or hay mows, or anywhere he can. 	*     *
What tongue can tell the condition the Elders
are placed in while on their heavenly missions!
While I have been meditating on these matters
of late it has weighed very heavy on me; I
could not feel happy when men who are as good
as I, and having all the feelings of a true phil-
antrophist, who know what home, wife and
children are worth, and lay all aside to obey
the mandate of heaven, in the face of persecu-
tion, mobs, fires, swords, bayonets, shot guns,
cold-blooded, cruel, inhuman butchery and
death for the Gospel’s sake.
	How with those at home—those who are
loyal to the Constitution—dragged from their
homes and thrust into a gloomy cell; their
money taken from them without an equivalent
given for the same; and what for?  They don’t
want to worship the image Nebuchadnezzar
has set up, while wives and tender children
have the arm that was their protector and pro-
vider taken away from them and left to need
the comforts of life. What wrong have the
wife and children done that they must suffer?
Do they not suffer in the wrong, or is it justice
to punish innocence?' Surely not.  Do not
these things cry aloud for vengeance?  Has not
the cry of persecution reached the throne?
	The condition of affairs now practiced on
the Saints will merit the sovereign condemna-
tion of every honest man.  Sacrifice and obe-
dience bring forth honor and immortality.
My prayers are for suffering Zion.  I feel my
happiest hours would be to visit my suffering
brethren, and talk with, and try to comfort
them in a felon’s cell.
	May God bless their loyal hearts; ’tis no dis-
grace to be placed there for a righteous cause,
were it not for their sorrowing families, who
are left without a protector, which will harrow
their feelings more than tongue can tell.  I do
pray that the dark clouds may soon pass away,
and those who have taken another lesson in the
school of experience may profit by the same,
and listen to those who hold the Holy Priest-
hood. 		*	*	*	*	*	
						H. M. W.


Errata.—In the last number of the paper,
in the Autobiography of Mrs. Emily D. P.
Young, in the second paragraph of the letter
of W. W. Phelps,the sentence fired their guns,
should have been fixed their guns.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE GOLD OF HOPE.

Bright shines the sun, but brighter after rain;
	The clouds that darken make the sky more clear;
So rest is sweeter when it follows pain,
	And the sad parting makes our friends more dear.

'Tis well it should be thus: our Father knows
	The things that work together for our good;
We draw a sweetness from our bitter woes—
	We would not have all sunshine if we could.

The days with all their beauty and their light
	Come from the dark and into dark return;
Day speaks of earth, but heaven shines through the
		night,
	Where in the blue a thousand star-fires burn.

So runs the law, the law of recompense,
	That binds our life on earth and heaven in one;
Faith cannot live when all is sight and sense,
	But faith can live and sing when these are gone.

We grieve and murmur, for we can but see
	The single thread that flies in silence by;
When if we only saw the things to be,
	Our lips would breathe a song and not a sigh.

Wait then, my soul, and edge the darkening cloud
	With the bright gold that hope can always lend;
And if to-day thou art with sorrow bowed,
	Wait till to-morrow and thy grief shall end!

And when we reach the limit of our days,
	Beyond the reach of shadows and of night,
Then shall our every look and voice be praise
	To him who shines, our everlasting light.

		HENRY BURTON.
	Sunday Magazine.


[Column 1]

SOME SOCIAL RELATIONS OF
WOMAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Taking it for granted that observations and
reflections respecting the social and moral atti-
tudes of the women of the world will not be
unacceptable from a Mormon boy, who has
ventured into the world to promulgate the
Gospel in pursuance to a call to fulfill a mis-
sion abroad, I feel free to express my views, and
give my reasons for their existence.
	Born and raised in the valleys of Zion, and
as a consequence accustomed to the marital
relations of God's people, I often wondered
how it was possible for the world to infute such
impure motives to my father and mother who
had ever been cautious to teach me the princi-
ples of strictest virtue and integrity. Besides
the authorities, whose recitude and virtue I
knew from my earliest boyhood was impeach-
able, had been denominated lecherous, because
of their family relations. I had read of the
wickedness of the women of the world, and
when defending our marriage system at home,
by comparing situations, I have been frequent-
ly told that I must not believe all I read or
heard, but that when I traveled abroad my
opinions would entirely change.
	The opportunity came, and true my opinions
are somewhat modified, but only to increase
my contempt for those who cry out against my
people.
	At New York I felt somewhat anxious to
make inquiries, for the purpose of learning the
moral status of that city. To a publisher of
wide reputation I remarked, That after rend-
ing such books as the "Secrets of the Great
City," I did not see or hear anything in them
that would offend the most aesthetic individual.
With a good natured smile he wanted to know
how I had been occupying myself in the city,
and remarked that I must go "slumming."
I had never heard the word, or had forgotten it
on further inquiry I learned that it was a fa-
vorite pastime with many to take a guide and
visit at night the slums of the metropolis and
miserable dens of iniquity to be found in
Water St. and other places of carousal. The
gentleman further informed me that sin, in

[Column 2]

New York was so well regulated that no one
needed to be shocked by immoral women; peo-
ple could go where these evils were or stay
away and be perfectly retired.
	Not being able to reconcile myself to such a
course, I sought to visit Blackwell's Island,
notorious for its correctional institutions. Se-
curing a letter of introduction, which enabled
me to acquire reliable information, I set out
for the ferry boat. There were on the boat
sixteen female prisoners. It was the third
boat load, and that morning fifty-five female
prisoners had been conveyed to the house of
correction. The conduct of the officer toward
them, two in particular, somewhat aroused my
sympathies, and I ventured to inquire the rea-
son for such severe discipline. He told me then
that a depraved woman was far more vicious
and more treacherous than a depraved man,
and that his experience had taught him to be
somewhat severe toward them.
	The picture to me was a horrid one, and I
have not enough morbid curiosity to ever want
to see another such. There were in the institu-
tion at the time about eight hundred. The
officer I met on the island was very courteous,
and escorted me through the hospital, where I
beheld the most pitiable objects human concep-
tion is capable of producing. Here I procured
lengthy statistics; so far as they were obtainable
by the board, and as they are at present not
materially different from those published by
Dr. Sanger in his "History of Prostitutes," I
will not quote them here. The doctor re-
marked that 30,000 prostitutes swarmed the
cities of New York and Brooklyn, and the
modified forms of prostitution have sent their
ranifications into the very heart of society. "I
suppose," I remarked, "you could not find a
thousand men in these two cities but what look
upon such a condition of society with perfect
horror, and would be willing to vote for the
banishment of every such woman from the
state." "No doubt," replied the Dr. good na-
turally, "the men are very innocent in the
matter, but I am afraid if the question came
up for a vote it would be laid on the table.
Still there seems to be a growing feeling for
the necessity of such institutions, and more or
less advocacy for their existence under proper
regulations." The moral conditions of woman
have, in past ages of history, been taken as a
social thermometer to determine the virtuous
temperature of society, in which man figures
as an airy, invisible, innocent creature. Con-
tinuing the conversation further, I remarked,
"Of course such conditions and institutions
among women are the best indications we have
of social and family disintegration." "No,"
replied the Dr., "they are of course great in-
dications, but social disintegration in general
and family disintegration in particular, are
best indicated in the tendency to prevent and
destroy offspring. Such conduct is unnatural,
and consequently impure. The physical na-
ture is perverted, and the moral, of course,
must correspond. With these material condi-
tions, unnatural as we know them to be, so
sensitively connecting the moral senses, it is
evident that a new moral code must spring up,
and people's notions of purity, virtue and
aesthetics may, in the next generation, present
an entirely new phase. As long as the laws of
nature are treated as vulgarities, and vulgari-
ties as virtue it is evident that the two must
change their base of operation, and whither
such tactics will drive us, heaven only knows."
	These remarks were impressed more firmly
upon my mind when, in company with an En-
glish gentleman and lady, on our way to Mt.
Vernon. English and American patriots was
the topic of conversation. The lady affirmed
that England never had a better monarch than
Victoria, but that the vulgarity she exhibited
in such a multitude of children was a standing
disgrace to the English people.

[Column 3]

	I could have tumbled into the river, but I
reached England, only to hear the same views
expressed time and again. There is nothing
more certain than that the conception of
morals, as expressed by the Latter-day Saints
and the world are diametrically opposed. To
integrate with the world we not only need to
throw away our marriage system, but throw
away our whole religion. When I have heard
men advocate certain immoral conduct, or de-
fend impure systems, I have often thought of
the anecdote of George Francis Train. He
said he had been educated and brought up by
his grandmother, and that she had taught him
to be strictly truthful and honest; but when he
came to America and saw how American Con-
gressmen did things, he began to wonder if
"grana" hadn't cheated him.
	The fathers and mothers are not cheating
the sons and daughters of Zion, and whatever
the world may say, they would better accept the
wise counsel and moral teaching of their pa-
rents.	J. M. T.


ST. GEORGE.

	St. George, at this season of the year, pre-
sents a most charming appearance. Let us
stand on an eminence and look down upon it,
that we may fully admire and enjoy the beauti-
ful scene, which is embraced by the warm,
balmy air and bright sunshine of an early
spring day.	
	There lies the little town—not so very small,
either—nestled among the rugged, red sand-
stone and black volcanic hills. The most strik-
ing object of interest is that sacred edifice, the
Temple,whose pure,white walls are such a strik-
ing contrast to the red soil which surrounds it.
Then there is our Tabernacle—built of red
sandstone, beautifully finished and furnished,
surrounded by a white picket fence, which en-
closes a well kept garden of various kinds of
trees, shrubs, flowers and lucern beds.
	Next comes our court house, stores, etc., and
many neat, fine looking, substantial dwellings,
which would do credit to a larger city. There
are the broad streets, whose sidewalks are de-
fined by a stream of running water, fringed on
either side with fresh green grass and a row of
shade trees, cottonwoods predominating.
	Spread out before us is the newly planted
gardens, laid out in straight rows ready for ir-
rigating, with here and there a fresh green
patch of lucern, and the early vegetables look-
ing temptingly suggestive of future feasts.
	The pears and plum trees have put forth
their delicate white blossoms, and the apple,
peach and almond have put on their gayer
garments of pink of different shades; the sweet
scented lilacs, with their wealth of bloom, and
even the lovely currant bush, modestly opening
its tiny yellow petals, as if doubtful of receiv-
ing any notice among so many gay compan-
ions.
	What a beautiful spot to be found in such
a wild, uninviting country, telling in the most
emphatic language of the patience, persever-
ance and industry of its inhabitants, and
above all, of the blessings of God upon their
labors. Showing what the united faith and
works of the Latter-day Saints can accomplish,
and this is but one of many of our thriving
cities and towns in Utah and elsewhere.
	Truly this mission seems to be to beautify,
adorn and redeem the waste places, as well as
to labor for the salvation of their fellow men.
	MARGUERITE.


Ristori, the celebrated Italian actress, visited
our city last week and played Elizabeth of
England and Mary Queen of Scotts. She still
possesses a wonderful power of fascination
over her audiences, holding them as though
spell bound. To see her once is to remember
her always.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, upstairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
everyday, except Sunday.
	Address alll business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1885.


[Column 1]

APRIL CONFERENCE IN LOGAN.

	Another General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ has been held; this last time in
Logan, Cache County, where a holy temple has
been erected and dedicated to the Most High.
It seems perfectly proper that the great body of
the Saints should convene there in a general as-
sembly at such a time. In the absence of the
First Presidency of the Church, Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards presided over the Conference.
The meetings were crowded, large numbers of
people having come from various parts of the
country to attend. The speakers were earnest
and eloquent in their appeals to the people to
live their religion, to trust in God, to maintain
their integrity and work righteousness, to sus-
tain home manufactures and industries and
build up Zion instead of her enemies. A good
degree of the Spirit of the Lord was manifest
through the several days of the Conference.
	During the Conference an Epistle from the
First Presidency of the Church was read, in
which these brethren presented, in strong and
and forcible language, the wrongs under which
this people are suffering at the present time, and
the only safe path to pursue to obtain the
promises held out to the faithful.
	After the Epistle, which seemed to include
and embrace every point in which the people at
the present time are so deeply interested, had
been read, Apostle H. J. Grant offered the follow-
ing resolution:
	"In view of the statement in the Epistle that
we have heard read, that the proportion of the
male members of our Church who are living in
the practice of plural marriage is but little, if
any, more than two percent of the entire mem-
bership of the Church, and the injustice done
to the great majority of this community by the
action of the Federal officials, I move that a
committee be appointed by this Conference to
draft a series of resolutions, and a protest to the
President of the United States, and to the na-
tion, in which the wrongs the people of this
Territory have suffered and are still suffering,
from the tyrannical conduct of Federal officials
shall be set forth specifically and in detail, and
asking in respectful language for the same treat-
ment to which other citizens of the United
States are entitled, and report the same to a
mass meeting which shall be hereafter called."
	The resolution was unanimously adopted, and
the following named persons were nominated by
the President of the Conference to compose the
committee: John T. Caine, Wm. Jennings,
Feram[--]z Little, James Sharp, Heber J. Grant,
John W. Taylor, Orson F. Whitney, John Q.
Cannon, J. F. Wells, Chas. O. Card, Abram
Hatch, Wm. W. Cluff, Willard G. Smith, Lewis
W. Shurtliff, Oliver G. Snow, Thomas G. Web-
ber, Franklin S. Richards, Samuel R. Thnr[---]an,

[Column 2]

Joel Grover, Rees R. Liewellyn, B. H. Roberts
Joseph Kimball.
	The committee have since held a meeting and
sub-committees there appointed are now pre-
paring the resolutions in view of presenting
them to the people in the mass meeting, which
will be called in due time. 
	This seems to be a timely step, for unless
some specific measures are taken to present the
grievances of the people in a proper light to the
President and people of the nation, nothing can
be expected in view of the misrepresentations
and burden of evil and false statements made
by those whose sole occupation seems to be to
traduce, vilify and temporally destroy those who
have striven to build up the waste places and
protect all in their rights and in the enjoyment
of that freedom so dear to all who are entitled
to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	THE Constitutional Convention met as per
adjournment on the 7th inst., in the City Hall
and adjourned without transacting any business, 
until the evening of October 7th, at the same
place.  
	THOUGHTS, Y. L. Conference of Cache Stake, 
Woman's Voice, E. H. B., The Primary and Y. 
L. Conference, Juab Stake, Notes and Comments
after reading the Life of George Eliot, Notes
from Riverdale and other matter, all gladly ac-
cepted, and will appear in due time. 
	THE recent variety entertainments in the
Theatre, for the benefit of the Deseret Hospital, 
proved not only very enjoyable, but quite suc-
cessful. The nett proceeds exceeded three hun-
dred dollars. The Unity Club took charge of
the lunch stand, and managed that part of the
affair admirably. 
	THE announcement of Dr. Maggie C Shipp's 
class in obstetrics appears in this number of
our paper, and in regard to the matter we are
pleased to say that as a lecturer and teacher she
possesses the necessary adaptability as well as
the education essential to the performance of the
duty. She graduated from the Woman's College
in Philadelphia as physician and surgeon, and is
well posted in matters relating to the subjects
she proposes to teach. Since returning home
she has spent the greater part of her time in
teaching in the country, giving lectures and
practicing as opportunity offered. She intends
now to remain in the city, where she will teach, 
lecture and practice in the profession she has
chosen, and for which she seems specially well
adapted. Her lectures here in the city are very
highly spoken of by those who have listened to
her.  As there is great need of able help in this
field of woman's usefulness, we hope and trust
the sisters in the country, as well as here at
home, will avil themselves of the very liberal
terms offered by Dr. Shipp, and prepare them-
selves to fill positions of trust in various parts of
the country, where competent and skillful prac-
titioners are so much needed. Any additional
particulars may be obtained by letter if directed
to her residence as published in the advertise-
ment.


A REIGN OF PEACE.
	I would ask, Why did we settle in these val-
leys?  Why, as a people, did we ever gather to-
gether and make a settlement anywhere?  I will
answer, It was because we believed there would
be a reign of peace on the earth.
	This peace would be accomplished when all
could see and understand our Savior's mission.
This they will learn by doing His will.  Did not
He say to the Jews, "How oft would I have
gathered you together as a hen gathereth her
chickens under her wings, but ye would not.'
Accordingly you see that none are compelled to
come, but have their agency to act as they
please.
	Again, other reasons are, when the message
caome to prepare for His second coming to earth,
some saw the propriety of this preparation, and
others did not.  Those who did not despised
those who did, and thought us lowilved, con-
tenptibe beings; cried, "False prophet," eetc.,
etc, :Away with them out of the land."  Ac-
cordingly we were glad to settle together, that
we might strengthen each other by our faith in
living more perfectly to the laws of God.  All
the sects believe in part, and are so proud of the
little they cling to, and the attainments they
have arrived at in the arts and sciences, that
they are not humble and cannot give room in
their hearts for the Spirit of God to make them
pleasing in His sight; while many doubt that
there is a God.  They have no time to think of
this; they are so anxious to arrive at the pinnacle
of fame in some grand pursuit.
	But what did the Savior say-"Father, I thank
thee that thou hast hidden these things from
the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them
unto babes.  Even so, Father, for so it seemeth
good in Thy sight."
	We find in all the churches of Christendom
some sincere believers in Christ.  Such will
eventually believe the teachings given in
Matthew v, vi, vii, and believe in applying our
minds to this law, which will prepare us for a
reign of peace on the earth.  Nor is this all, for
it is here written that not one jot or tittle of the
prophecie shall fail.  What have the people to
fear from those who live to these rules and for
this purpose?  But they talk as the wolf did, in
the fable, to the lamb; asking, "How dare you
drink at the stream while I drink?"  The lamb
replied, "The water runs from you down to me,
so I could not roll the stream."  But how many
roll the stream for us? They say there are fam-
ily broils that ought not to exist.  Well, why do
they exist?  It is because they lack the good
spirit they covenant to obey.  They have not
learned their lesson perfectly, which is,"Blessed
are the pure in heart, for they shall see God;
blessed are the peace makers, for they shall be
called the children of God;blessed are the meek,
for they shall inherit the earth;blessed are they
which hunger and thirst after righteousness, for
they shall be filled."
	In keeping these laws in good faith, we feel
benefitted by them.  But are Mormons the only
ones who have family brolls? I think ours are
few in comparison to the mass of the human
family.  Those will disappear as fast as we be-
come Saints, and live by faith.  It is written
"the just shall live by faith"  It is also said that
faith is a gift from God.  Who will He bestow
this gift upon?  Only the just and upright.
None other need apply; until they make up
their minds to be just and true; with the opposite
class God is not pleased, because He could not
bring to pass a reign of peace with such instru-
ments.
	But you ask, If God is your friend why does
He permit you to be so often afflicted by your
enemies?  The only reason I can see is because
we are so dilatory in learning our lessons.  He
has blessed us with this world's goods to a great
extent, taking all things into consideration, and
we are so well pleased and gratified that we
spend too much time in arranging, and almost
worhsip them instead of the giver.
	I think the government can testify that we
have been no disadvantage to them.  How much
we have given into the treasury they very well
know, which has been the result of our prosperi-
ty; and in return have not we been careful to 
ask their permission in any important move we


have made while in times of peace.  When
leaving Nauvoo a letter was sent to the governor
of Iowa, asking permission to pass through their
country, and also to permit those who had not
provisions to stop and earn means to go further.
This you will read, letter and all, in Professor
Tullidge's writings, called Brigham Young's
History, or the Pioneers of Utah.  Also the ac-
count of Bro. Jesse C Little, who want to 
Washington, asking the President's permission
to settle in the far west, or valleys of the moun-
tains.  This was granted by testing us in send-
ing five hundred volunteers to the Mexican war.
The government was good in appointing Prest.
Young to govern our people, and many time in
changing our officers.  Government has no
time or dispositon to look after any one's re-
ligion, but they must maintain morality and
good order.
	This being our motto also, I expect all will be
right when we are perfectly understood by the
rulers of the nation.  I believe they want to do
right by all under their care.  Is not this coun-
try called the asylum for the oppressed?  It has
been, and always will be if they will govern by
our Savior's golden rule; but the preachers of
the sects see their craft is in danger, and fear to
investigate true principles.  Did they know the
result they would fear no danger.  They will
see the day when they will be willing to have a 
reign of peace on the earth; and all who love the
truth will help to make it too.
						M.E. KIMBALL.
March 24th, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR TRUE POSITION.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel to say, as Paul did, I cannot hold my
peace any longer, but must express my feelings
in regard to this unholy crusade, which is being
inaugurated against this people, or I shall burst
with indignations.
	It seems a difficult matter to exercise the
patience and forbearance that should mark the
conduct of a Saint of God, when they see fam-
ilies torn asunder, faithful, honest, God-fearing
men driven from their homes, leaving helpless
familes, in a great many instances, with no ap-
parent means of providing for themselves, de-
pendent upon the charity of those who are for-
tunate enough, thus far, to escape the shafts of
the enemy.  
	This spirit is particularly pointed at our little
berg at the present time.  Marshals and their
deputies are on the war path serving subpoenas
for the polygamists' trials, which are to come off
at the next term of court, which convenes the
6th of April. Now, to appear before these
courts is not a very desirable position to be
placed in, consequently there are games of hide
and seek being carried on pretty extensively,
and it is not often the seeker finds-they fall in
a great many instances.
	Among those who are the most prominent
and malicious of our persecutors is one Riley
Morse from Filmore an apostate, who is pre-
paring himself to be a son of perdition.
	Some of his relatives are faithful Latter-day
Saints, who are deeply grieved and mortified at
the course he is pursuing.  He seems well
posted in the history of every family in the
place; also who would be the most competent
wilnesses, etc.  He has succeeded in breaking
up his niece's family, causing her husband to
flee from his home, leaving her with a family of
four helpless little ones on her hands, without
any means for support, as he was dependent on
his trade (plastering) for support.  And this is
the condition of affair throughout Utah, if re-
ports are true.
	What a record our persecutors will have to
[---]
meet at the judgment seat of God, when they
will be brought to face the record of the deeds
done in the body.  I often wonder if they ever
think of this, but I suppose they are so blinded
by the evil one that they never consider the
consequence of their wicked acts; but there is  a
God in heaven, and they will then realize to
their sorrow the terrib;e consequences of fight-
ing against God, and against a God fearing po-
ple, who are striving to carry out the commands
[--] Jehovah.  For this we are persecuted; for
this the peace and happiness of the family circle
is broken up and destroyed; for this God fearing,
upright, conscientious men are obliged to leave
their homes and helpless families, or suffer the
alternative of going behind prison bars.  Wives
are forced to appear before courts to testify
against their husbands, children against their
parents, and all for exercising their constiution-
al rights, which guarantees protection to every
person in the exercise of their religion.  But can
we afford to forsake any one principle of our
holy religion?  No; God forbid.  Come life, come
death, let us be firm and steadfast, and cling to
every principle revealed by the God of heaven
for the guidance of His Saints, to prepare them
to meet the Savior.  
	Then let us be true to our brethren and sisters,
true to our religion, and above everything let us
be true to our God, and then He will not forsake
His Saints.  The Lord has said, in one of His
revelations to the Prophet Joseph, "Cursed is
he who lifts his heel against mine anointed, and
shall say he has sinned, when he has not sinned, 
but is obeying my commandment, which I have
commanded him to perform."
						S. M. POMEROY. 
	Mesa City, March 29th, 1885.


A PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.
				[line break]
	On the 4th of March the Primary Associa-
tion of the 5th Ward presented a musical and
dramatic entertainment in the meeting house,
the proceeds of which are to be used for the
benefit of the Association, in purchasing books,
material for work, etc. The programme was
quite extended, and the principal pieces were
rendered by the children themselves. Selections
by the Mutual Glee Club and Tonic Sol-Fa Sing-
ing class, who kindly volunteered their assist-
ance on the occasion made a very pleasing va-
riety in the exercises. The songs and choruses
by the children were given in excellent time,
and with a brightness and crispness that was
especially noticeable, while the recitations by
the little ones deservedly received hearty ap-
plause.
	When all did so well it would seem almost im-
possible to make any distinction, but es-
pecial mention certainly ought to be made of
the dialogue, “The Deacons" by Archie Bu-
chanan and Roy Palmer, the spirit and render-
ing of which were as near perfection as possible,
and also of the "Peek-a boo” song of Effie Palmer,
a tiny miss of four years of age, whose cuteness
gained her a hearty encore. After the musical
portion of the programme was concluded a Fairy
Drama was presented, with Miss Lottie Self as
the Fairy Queenl; Miss Lizzie Palmer, the Genii;
Miss B. Ricketts, the Earth Child and Misses
E. Miller, E. Durrans, Jones, Marsden and
Appleby, as Fairies. The costumes were ap-
propriate and pretty, and the dance of the
fairies at the close with colored lights was as
lovely a scene as any one would wish to wit-
ness.
	The meeting house was crowded, and every
piece was heartily applauded, while a unani-
mous request for a repetition of the entertain-
ment showed the sincere appreciation of the au-
dience.


On the 18th of March the entertainment was
repeated, with a few unimportant changes in
the programme, another large audience greeting
the second appearance of the little ones. It is
very pleasing to see the talents of the children
utilized in this direction, and too much praise
cannot be given to the officers of the Associa-
tion, President E. Clark and her Counselors, to
whose persevering and untiring efforts the suc-
cess of the entertainment is due.
							E. B. F.


AN OVATION.
	A meeting of the -Young -Ladies’ and Primary
Associations of Juab; Stake convened in the
Nephi Relief Hall, March 23rd, 1885. The hall
was crowded, there baing representatives and
others present from the branch associations of
the stake.
	The gathering was in honor of Sister Hannah
Grover' sixty second birthday; also to express
the appreciation and gratitude for her labors, for
Sister Grover has been connected with the presi-
dency of the Y. L. and Primaries for a period of
ten years, being placed to act as superintendent
for the Y. L. at its first organization by Sister
Eliza, after which she was called to act as Stake
President over the Primaries, and acting at the
same time as First Counselor to the Stake Presi-
dent of Y. L. M I. A.
	The meeting commenced by singing. Prayer
was offered by Sister Grover. Singing. Prest.
M. A. Caz er mtde the opening remarks,followed
by an address from Prest. M. E. Teasdale, who,
In behalf of the Y. L. and Primaries, presented
Sister Grover with two beautiful presents, a
photograph aud autograph album. She ex-
pressed the regrets felt by all in having to part
with Sister Grover, for she had won the respect
and esteem of all with whom she ahd been asso-
ciated,
	Sister Grover was much affected when she
arose to -thank her friends for their tokens of
remembrance and regard shown her.
	The remaining time was occupied by short ad-
dresses from the ladies, and songs, and recitations
principally from the children. This enjoyable
meeting was closed by singing "Love at Home."
Benediction by M. E. Teasdale.
						L. A. CAZIER.


A HAPPY PARTY.
			       -----
   As the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. is in-
intending to leave the Eighth Ward, the officers
and members gave her a pleasant surprise, Fri-
day evening, April 3rd, in the meeting house of
that Ward.  It was in the form of a picnic and
meeting.  After meeting the Secretary present-
ed her with a nice center table and handsome
cover, in behalf of the Association, showing
how her actions have endeared her to us.  We
all feel sorry to lose our President.  As it was a
complete surprise to her, she could only ex-
press her thanks and good wishes.
    Our Association being in a very good condition
we intend to hold our meetings regularly until
we have another President chosen.  We meet
every week.
			S. H. HAWKINS, Secretary.


A GENTILE JOURNALIST.
				  ------
MRS. H. M. WHITNEY:
   Yours of the 13th, the papers, etc, at hand. I
deemed your letter of sufficient interest to
warrant publication, and therefore sent it to
Colonol C. T. Nixon, the editor of one of our
popular journals, and it will appear  week. I
trust the act will meet your approbation.
  I am now in an adjoining county, but will re-


turn home in a few days, and will write you at
greater length, and perhaps refer briefly to the
marked articles in the News and Herald. Any
papers or written messages from you will always
receive due attention, and will be used in the in-
terest of your people, who seem, just at this
time, to need the sympathy and assistance of
every person who possesses any conception of
honor and justice.  I am heartily disgusted at
the cruel and unjust course of our Government
towards the Mormons, and I should always op-
pose it to the bitter end.
			In haste, your friend,
							W. H. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿------------------------------
		MRS. HARRIET GRAY.
			     -------
   The following interesting death notice and
obituary appeared in the P[-]terboro paper, and
we republish it in honor of the aged sister, and
for the sake of her many friends who reside in
Utah.
   In July, 1871, being then 82 years of age, she
paid a visit to Salt Lake City, Utah, and accom-
plished a work for her dead in the house of the
Lord, which she had been very desirous to do
for many years.  On the occasion of her "depart-
ure from Zion," a messenger handed her a poem
in manuscript from the pen of the “Mormon
Poetess,” which was afterwars published at the
request of many friends, in the Pe'erboro,(N. H.
Transcript.) Sister Eliza R Snow, the author,
published it afterwards in her second volume of
poems, and we reproduce it below here, as it
seems very appropriate in connection with the
notice of her demise. —ED. 
   "In this town, January 23, Mrs Harriet Gray, aged 92
years, 5 months and 29 days.”  
				OBITUARY.
				   ---------
   “Yesterday afternoon, at 2 30 o’lock, Mrs. Harriet
Gray, universally known as "Aunt Harriet," died at her
residence on Concord Street, at the ripe old age of 92
years and a half.  Until within a year past, she has al-
ways enjoyed very good health, and retained her mental
faculties to a remarkable degree.  Five months ago she
had a shock of paralysis, from which time she failed
rapidly, and during the last six days of her life was
totally unconscious.  Mrs. Gray was a native and life
long resident of the town.  She was a daughter of the
late Hon. John Scott, and one of a family of nine child-
ren, one of whom, Mrs. Nancy Cobb of Hancock, is still
living.  In 1811 she married William Gray, by whom
she had eleven children.  Four daughters and two sons
survive her, and all but one son were present and minis-
tered to her wants during her last illness.  A few weeks
since, daughters, granddaughters, a great-granddaughter,
and a great-great-granddaughter stood by her bedside—
five generations being thus represented.
   For many years she lived upon the farm now owned
and occupied by her son, James S. Gray, where all her
children were born.  When the youngest child was
two years old, the family removed to the village, where
by untiring industry Aunt Harriet succeeded in lifting
a mortgage from the farm and accumulating a few hun-
dred dollars, after she had reached an age when people
are generally supposed to retire from the active duties
of life.
   Although differing in her religious belief from the
faith commonly held in New England, her upright and
unselfish life was proof that she was actuated by a true
Christian spirit, and the zeal and fidelity with which
she performed her life work are worthy of emulation by
all who know her.
   Funeral from the house tomorrow (Friday) afternoon,
at 1.30 o’clock.”
				   ---------
	"Fare you well, beloved mother:—
	   While your homeward way you wend,
	God, our Father, will protect you
	   Safe from dangers that impend.

	Fare you well, much honored lady,
	   Go in peace and be you blest;
	In the far off East remember
	   Those who loved you in the West.

	In the valleys of the mountains,
	   Hearts to God and country true,


Will, in holiest bonds of friendship
Known on earth, remember you.
When you've filled your earthly mission,
And resign your "dust to dust,”
You will have “abundant entrance
Into mansions of the just."


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		EASTER ARIZONA.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, the Young Ladies and Primary Associa-
tions was held at Snowflake, March 6th, 1885,
President Emma S. Smith presiding. After
the usual opening exercises the minutes of the
last quarterly conference were read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial reports were
read, which showed the condition of the
branches to be very good. The verbal reports
of the presidents of the several societies were
very satisfactory, and showed much good had
been accomplished by the sisters during the
quarter.
	Sister Emily Lewis felt we were blessed in
meeting together, and said, The persecution we
are receiving is in fulfillment of prophecy.
	Sister Lucy H. Flake felt desirous to work
for the advancement of the kingdom of God.
	Coun. Lois Hunt said she felt well satisfied
with everything that had been said and done
during the conference. and in her usual cheer-
ful manner felt to bless all the societies,
	Financial and verbal reports of the Young
Ladies and Primary Associations were then
given in, showing both to be progressing rapid-
ly in the great work.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith felt well pleased with
the reports of the different wards, and gave
some instructions to the secretaries in regard
to making out reports. Said the persecutions
the Saints recieve will tend to make them live
their religion better. The mothers in Israel
should teach their children to pray as soon as
they are old enough to talk. Hoped we would
live so as to merit the blessings in store for the
faithful.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by Albert Minnerly.
		Della Fish, Stake Secretary.
		St. George Stake.
	The Relief Society and Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association held their
quarterly conference at the Lyceum,St. George,
on the 13th inst., and all felt it to be a time of
rejoicing. The hall was well filled, and the
reports from all the settlements in the stake
were most encouraging. The sisters appear to
be waking up to a sense of their duty, and a
greater union exists between them than in times
past; also a deeper interest is felt in each
other's welfare, and a desire to obey those
principles which have been revealed from the
heavens.
	Words of instruction and counsel were give
by the brethren and sisters who presided, which
we will do well to remember. It was asked
that those sisters in the meeting who were liv-
ing in obedience to the law of the celestial mar-
riage, and also those who were at present not
in  position to practice it, but who honored it
in their hearts, would rise to their feet. Im-
mediatley every sister in the house rose, thus
manifesting their faith in that divine revela-
tion.
	During the last quarter the Society has
been active, both in donating and in minister-
ing to the wants of the needy and the sick,and
the blessings of the Lord has followed their ad-
ministrations.
	The Primary Conference was held on the
14th. There was a good attendance. The
little choir sang sweetly, and the bright and
happy faces of the children showed plainly
that they took an interest in what was said to
them.
	May the Lord bless these Saints of His flock,
and expand their minds, that they may com-
prehend the principles of the Gospel which are
taught them, and also bless all the officers of
these associations with the spirit of their call-
ings, that they may be able to instruct them in
the ways of life and salvation.
			Your's respectfully,
		M. A. G. BAKER, Cor. Secretary.
			BOX ELDER STAKE
	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake, held March 10th,
1885, in the Tabernacle of Brigham City,
Prest. Harriet Snow presiding. Conference
opened by singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of previous conference, etc.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said, It is hard times,
but so much more do we need to meet together
and exchange thoughts and feelings, to comfort
and build each other up. Encouraged the
sisters to make up useful and ornamental arti-
cles for the fair in June "We should make it
bright and cheerful around us; a happy, cheer-
ful disposition will overcome obstacles, where
one otherwise would droop and be overcome.
	Secretary Mary E. Snow read the reports
from the different wards for the last six
months.
	Sister Hubbard, Prest. of the Relief Society
of Willard, said, I am happy this morning for
the privilege to meet with my sisters. I often
think, for all the teachings we receive from
time to time, how much we need to learn yet.
When I reflect and contemplate on the many
blessings we have and still are enjoying, I feel
to lift my voice in praise to my Father in hea-
ven. Sisters, if we strive to be faithful we
shall be preserved. We go home refreshed
after hearing each other express our sentiments
in humility and faith. The sisters of Willard
are a faithful band of co-workers.
	Miss Fanny Graehl, Treasurer of Stake,
read the accounts for the last six months.
	Sister Terry, Prest. of Relief Society of
Three Mile Creek,said,"I am pleased to be here;
this year has been a peculiar one, both among
us and among the nations. Do we realize yet
all of our duties? We are bound to suffer if
these our sisters who have passed through
great trials and stood faithful. When we are
as well as in our spiritual afffairs, then the Lord
will fight our battles; but we never will be one
until we do. We have many widows in our
ward, and they are liberal with their dona-
tions."
	Sister Albertston, Prest, at Bear River City,
said she could not speak as fluently as the sis-
ters before her on account of the language.
"We have had much sickness in our place this
winter, and a great deal to think about; one
poor sister, in particular, has laid very low for
a long time. We are striving to do all the
good we can."
	Superintendent of the Y. L. M. I. A. Minnie
J. Snow. "I have been thinking while looking
at the faces around me, I wonder how long we
will be permitted to meet in peace together.
Referred to the many who apostatized during
the former trials of the Saints. We who are
here in peace ought to be prayerful and remem-
ber those who are away from their homes."
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few closing re-
marks. After singing,"The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning," and benediction by Emilia
D. Madsen, conference adjourned until two
o'clock.
	Afternoon Session. After singing prayer
was offered by Sister Terry, Coun. Susannah
Booth, Prest. of Relief Society 1st Ward of
Brigham City, said, "I hope and trust we may
always have the privilege of meeting to-
gether to comfort and cheer each other. We
have the promise if we seek the Lord and live


near unto Him, He will aid and assist us.  There
is a great responsibility resting upon us as
mothers, also as members of these associations.
Praised the Society of the 1st Ward, hoped we
might be able to set a good example before
each other and the world; never felt a stronger
desire than at the present time to press on-
ward and be faithful.
     Secretary M. E. Snow read the condensed
report of the Stake.
     Coun. Mary Stark, Prest 3rd Ward, Brigham
City:  "It is a difficult position to rise before
the elderly sisters of much experience.  Spoke
of the trials of those who strive to serve the
Lord.  Repeated the words of Brigham Young:
"Never teach your daughters against the princi-
ple of celestial marriage, better you had never
been born."  I think it the grandest principle
of our religion.  Encouraged home industry;
thought the reports from the different associa-
tions were wonderful, and a testimony of God's
favor and blessing upon this people."
     "Sister White, from Three Mile Creek:  I
never felt better in my life, never felt more
anxious to live my religion that at present.  I
cannot say I have no trials, I have a few, not
so many as some, but I sometimes think that
trials are good for us.
     Sister Dewey, Prest. of  Relief Society,
Deweyville, felt thankful that she was living
in this day and age, and for the knowledge
that the Lord will sustain us if we are true
and faithful, true to each other and to our-
selves.
     "Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Prest. at Honeyville:
We live in a very important day; the Lord
wants a tried people.  In Honeyville we are
but few in number, but generally a good feel-
ing prevails; it requires an effort on our part
to serve the Lord and carry on this kingdom."
     Sister Keller, Prest. at Mantua:  "I feel will-
ing to do what I can; feel to be united with
those placed over me; consider it a duty to en-
courage and help each other."
     Emilia D. Madsen felt the great necessity of
trusting in the Lord, and praying for the
spirit of discernment, that we might compre-
hend the influences surrounding us.  Spoke of
the great responsibilities of mothers who are
raising a family in these latter days.
     Sister Watkins, Prest. of the 4th Ward,
Brigham City:  "I have been among the sick a
great deal lately; I feel that we should seek to
live near to the Lord daily.  We have  good
sisters in our ward."
     Sec. Mary E. Snow, Prest. of the 2nd Ward,
Brigham City, wished all the sisters to study
the circular, that the reports might be made
properly; believed it much easier for some to
speak than others.
     Patriarch Box:  I have listened with great
attention, and felt the good spirit.  Spoke of
the good results of these organizations; had
been acquainted with them from the beginning.
Those who have young boys should teach them
to honor the Priesthood; those who have a
right to teach.  Spoke of  hard times in
Nauvoo.
	Prest. Harriet Snow felt happy to see the in-
terest manifested in the sisters everywhere, to
live their religion.  May the Lord bless all the
sisters, be faithful and prayerful; never let fear
enter into our hearts; God is mightier than any
nation on earth.
     Singing, "Lord, when iniquities about."
Benediction by Father Box.  Conference ad-
journed for three months.
EMILIE D. MADSEN, Cor. Secretary.

WEBER COUNTY.
     The Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber County was
held in the Ogden Tabernacle, March 13th,
1885, Prest. Sarah A. Herrick presiding.  Sing-
ing, "Lord, we come before the now." Prayer by
Bishop McQuarrie. Singing, "Once more

[column 2]
we come before Thee."  Minutes of the last
conference were read and approved.
     Prest. Herrick made opening remarks; said,
We do not know what position we may be
called upon to fill; then let us try to prepare
ourselves with useful knowledge.  We should
be charitable one with another, and try to do
good while we dwell on the earth.  Was pleased
to have Sisters Snow, Taylor and Tingey pres-
ent, etc., etc.
     Sister E. R. Snow Smith was always pleased
to meet with the daughters of Zion.  When the
organization of these associations was given it
was by the spirit of prophecy, and was testified
to by those in authority.  Had watched their
growth and advancement ever since.  Wished
the young ladies could understand the position
they hold to-day, that they would prepare for
the positions of the future.  You stand at the
head of all the young ladies of the world,
placed there by God, and have been reserved
by Him to assist in the greatest work ever
given to mankind.  Improvement is our mott,
perfection our aim, and what course must we
take to gain perfection?  That which leads
downward?  No; but each one must form a
well balanced character, cultivate yourselves
mentally and physically to have a strong spirit
and a strong mind, for they cannot work in a
weak and sickly tabernacle.  The Lord says
go to bed early and rise early, that thy bodies
may be strengthened and invigorated, and
what God gives us we should regard.  Next
mental, moral and physical culture will consti-
tute us as near perfection as can be reached on
earth.  The spiritual should be above all, that
which communicates with God, and these consti-
tute a Latter-day Saint, etc.
     Coun. Tingey desired the Spirit of God, that
she might speak so that we would be mutually
benefited.  Gave many excellent and beneficial
instructions to the associations, exhorting the
young ladies to seek the ways of the Lord and
prepare themselves by study and thought that
they might understand the principles of the
Gospel, for it embraces all good.  Closed her
interesting remarks, asking God to help us to
grow up  a united fold in His kingdom.
     Prest. Taylor could see improvement by the
reports.  The organization of these associa-
tions have prompted many to study the princi-
ples of the Gospel.  This is a time when the
disciples of Christ are persecuted as they were
of old, which is a strong testimony of the
truth of the work, for God has said, "If ye are
of the world, the world will love you;" by this
we may know the end draweth nigh.  She
spoke of the privileges we enjoy, and said they
should be used with wisdom.  The paths of
God are paths of pleasantness; then let us per-
form the things of God that Satan may not
gain power over us.
     Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.  Singing,
"How will the Saints rejoice," etc.  Benedic-
tion by Bro. Middleton.
     After noon session:  Opened by singing,
"Sweet is Thy work."  Prayer by Bro. J.
Stanford.  Singing, "The great and glorious
Gospel light."
     Prest. E. S. Taylor gave instructions to the
presidents concerning their duties, the way
they should conduct their exercises, and what
they should consist of.
     Coun. M. H. Tingey exhorted the young sis-
ters to sustain their presidents; to be diligent
in performing their exercises and in building
up the kingdom of God.
     Two of the associations were verbally re-
ported as being in a prosperous condition.  The
presidents made some excellent remarks, and
desired to do all they could to build up the
kingdom of God.
     Sister E. R. Snow Smith gave some brief in-
structions to the secretaries, followed by some
excellent instructions concerning the writing
of essays, articles, etc., and closed her remark

[column 3]
by exhorting all to diligence in the perform-
ance of their duties.
     Sister Taylor presented the names of Sister
M. R. Burton to fill the vacancy of secretary,
and Sister E. M. Stanford as assistant.  These
sisters were unanimously sustained.
     Prest. Herrick referred to the resignations of
Coun. Josephine West and Secretary Rosalthe
Canfield, and in consequence of the faithful
discharge of their duties, had resolved to pre-
sent them with a token of respect.
     Resolutions of Respect to Mrs. Josephine
Richards West:
     Whereas, Our beloved sister, Josephine R.
West,has been called to preside over the Prim-
ary Associations of Weber Stake, which neces-
sarily demands her undivided attention andtime,
and desiring, as she does, to adapt herself more
fully to the capacity of the little ones, thus
making their meetings more interesting and
attractive, she has tendered her resignation as
Coun. to the Central Board of the Y. L. M. I.
A., and,
     Whereas, We feel to regret the loss of her
agreeable company and excellent counsel,
which ever tended to elevate the mind to noble
aims and laudable ambitions in life, still, we
feel to acknowledge the Divine wisdom in se-
lecting one so worthy, whose unblemished
character is well known throughout the coun-
ty, to preside over the all-important Primary
Associations, feeling that the loss of the present
young ladies will be the gain of the future
men and women, therefore, be it
     Resolved, That we tender unto our esteemed
sister our heart-felt thanks for the excellent
method she ever exhibited in leading the mind
on and on in the paths of purity and honor,
assuring her that this is but a faint echo of the
sentiments of the high regard in which she
is held, not only by the Board, but by the young
ladies of the associations.
     Resolved, That she has inspired nobler views
of life, and won the confidence and love of the
young ladies, who will follow her not only to
her home, but to her labors in the Primary As-
sociation, with their earnest prayers that God
will bestow His blessings still more abundantly
upon her, that she may be better able to direct
the little ones to Him, that they may grow up
bright and shining lights in Zion, and be a
people that He will delight to own and bless.
     Resolved, That the above resolutions be pub-
lished in the Ogden Herald and the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and that a copy be presented to
Mrs. West.
SARAH A. HERRICK,
RUTHINDA E. MONCH,
ELIZABETH T. STANFORD.

THE LITTLE ONES.

DEDICATED TO MRS. JOSEPHINE R. WEST,
BY RUTHINDA E. MONCH.

O, feed my lambs, the Savior said,
In ages past and gone,
To Peter, whom He dearly loved
And placed this trust upon;
Take care of them, the little ones,
And feed them day by day
On precious truths, eternal truths,
That none may go astray.
Yes, give them sips, refreshing sips,
From fountains from above,
And bind them to the laws of God
By silken cords of love;
Of such as these, the "little ones,"
The kingdom yet will be,
Around the throne of God they dwell
In peace and harmony;
The children then in robes so fair,
Or in their tattered gown
Were taken in His arms and blessed--
On none did Jesus frown.
His heart was filled with love for them,
And were they rich or poor,
The charge to Peter was the same--
To feed them ever more.


[Column 1]
And did the Savior of the world
Notice the children then?
Oh! yes, for well He knew the boys
Would shortly be the men;	
And were they trained in righteousness
Most noble ones they’d be,	
And Peter was the chosen one 	
To teach them purity,
Now thou art called as Peter was
The little ones to train
In paths of virtue, truth and love,
Thy mission's much the same.
So, sister, may the grace of God
Henceforth your work attend,	
That Zion’s youth may rise in power
And Zion’s cause defend, 
That when He comes on earth to reign 
He’ll find a noble band,
Worthy in thought; in word and deed
To stand at His right hand. 

   The following testimonial was presented to
Sister Rosalthe Canfield:			
		A TESTIMONIAL 
Of love and respect to Sister Rosalthe Canfield in
	behalf of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Co.,
	March 13th, 1885.
<ae z="" l.="" m.="" la.="" bfimerlcz.="" f="" march="" izih,="" 1885.="" "="" dear="" sistep="" 1="" we="" desire="" to="" present="" you="" witli="" a="" slight="" tribute="" and="" testimonial="" of="" our="" love="" respect="" for="" you,="" appreciation="" your="" valu-="" able="" services="" the="" benefit="" building‘.up="" these="" associations,="" thauk="" cordially="" faithful="" labors="" in="" behalf,="" hoping="" trusting="" that="" good="" works="" enno-="" bling="" infllittlee="" may="" continue,that="" be'="" bright="" shining="" light="" through="" many="" future="" years="" happiness="" prosperity,="" pathway="" be="" strewn="" with="" blos-="" soms="" faith,="" hope,="" friendship="" aflection,="" will="" entwine="" fadeless="" wreath="" im-="" mortal="" flowers="" bloom="" forever,="" while="" pleasant="" memories="" past="" associations="" linger="" u3="" come,="" together="" hopes="" shall="" all="" meet="" glorious="" re?="" union,="" beyond="" shade's="" time;="" when.we="" see'as="" are="" seen,="" know="" as="" known,="" when="" mists="" obscure="" vision="" hero="" have="" rolled="" away="" beneath="" rays="" celestial="" [="" sun="" rise,="" it="" enfolds="" earth="" its="" radi-="" ant="" glory,whilo="" sweet="" echoes="" songs,="" praise="" from="" immortal="" lips="" float="" over="" happy'in-="" mates="" .a="" world="" redeemed.="" hay#="" labored="" well,="" 8hter,="" :="" cause="" jove="" truth,="" ...="" ,="" youhavo="" been="" brave="" enlister="">DEAR SISTER:
	We desire to present you with a slight
tribute and testimonial of our love and respect
for you, and of our appreciation of your valu-
able services for the benefit and building up of
these associations, and to thank you cordially
for your faithful labors in our behalf, hoping
and trusting that your good works and enno-
bling influence may continue,that you may be
a bright and shining light through many future
years of happiness and prosperity, and that
your pathway may be strewn with the blos-
soms of faith, hope, friendship and affection,
that will entwine in a fadeless wreath of im-
mortal flowers to bloom forever, while pleasant
memories of past associations will linger with
us in years to come, together with the bright
hopes that we shall all meet in a glorious re-
union beyond the shades of time; when we shall
see as we are seen, and know as we are known,
when the mists that obscure our vision her[-]
have rolled away beneath the rays of celestial
sun rise, when it enfolds the earth in its radi-
ant glory, while sweet echoes of songs of praise
from immortal lips float over the happy in-
mates of a world redeemed.
	
	You have labored well, dear sister,
		In the cause of love and truth,
	You have been a brave enlister
		To improve the minds of youth.

	Many years you’ve labored fruitful
		In the place you’ve now resigned,
	And your labors hav[-] been faithful,
		Bearing fruit each step you’ve climbed.

	[-]t were vain to wish you pleasure,
		Riches, beauty, fame of earth,
	God will meet you out your measure, 
		He will pay you for your worth.

	Diamonds, pearls and gold may glitter,
		Shedding beauty rich and rare;
	But pure gems of thought are fitter
		For God’s faithful ones to wear.

	We would wish thee all earth’s pleasures,
		All its beauty, wealth and dower,
	But we know for thee there’s treasures 
		Laid beyond man’s feeble power.

	Treasures to thy heart far dearer
		Than the richest earth can give,
	And thy labors draw thee nearer
		Every day white her[-] you live.

	Then we’ll but ask God to bless you
		With the crown you have won here—
	Of eternal wealth and honor,
		All the hopes you hold most dear.

	Still[-]progressing may you ever
		Keep in view the noble aim,		
	Ever trusting, doubting never,
		Till eternal rest you gain.

[Column 2]
	The retiring sisters were each presented with
a beautiful writing desk, and after a few very
interesting and instructsve remarks by Bro.
J. Stanford, Sister J. S. Richards and Prest.
Herrick, meeting was adjourned for three
months, Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Bro. W. G. Child.
		M. R. Burton, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FEW JOTTINGS FROM WEST
WEBER.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Like other wards throughout this Territory
we have acted upon the wise couusels of our
late President Brigham Young, and have our
Mutual Improvement Associations of both
sexes in good running order, and much good
has been the result.
	Last fall the young men began operations
towards purchasing a library, and invited the
young ladies to unite with them, and thus be
joint owners in the same, which offer they glad-
ly accepted, and we now have a good library.
	The 12th of February being the 30th anni-
versary of the birth of our President, Sister
Sarah Ann Hart, the members of our Associa-
tion arranged a very pleasant surprise for her,
and presented her with a handsome easy chair;
in recognition of her labors in the cause of im-
provement. A sumptuous repast was provided
by the Association, and the evening was spent
in songs, speeches, recitations, etc., and every-
one seemed to enjoy themselves. Much good
instruction was given by the Bishop to the
young, and the party dispersed at an early
hour.
	JESSIE ROBB, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Grand Jury for the April term of the
Third District Court has been impaneled.
	Governor Pierce has brought down upon
his devoted head much righteous indignation
from the advocates of Woman Suffrage, not
only in Dakota, but everywhere throughout
the land. The Woman Suffrage bill passed
the House by a vote of 29 to 19, and the
Council by a vote of 14 to 10, but was vetoed
by the Governor. The New York Woman suff-
rage Party State Executive commitee have
written a letter to President Cleveland, asking
the removal of Governor Pierce, of Dakota,
for vetoing the woman’s suffrage bill, passed
by the Legislature.
	It has been arranged that Princess Beatrice's
wedding should take place in Whippinham
Church next July, during the Queen's summer
residence at Osborne. An additional item is
that the honeymoon will be passed at Quarr
Abbey,Lord Cochrane's place between Osborne
and Ryde. The precise day of the wedding
will not be fixed for some months to come, but
it will be either July 22nd, 23rd; or 24th—
most likely the 24th. The "Order of Cere-
mony" has not yet been drawn up,but we un-
derstand that it is the intention of the Queen
to give the Princess away herself, and, as at
present arranged, the bridesmaids will be mem-
bers of the Royal Family.


A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
	Will commence a class in her office on May 1, 1885,
a term consists of ten weeks.  Two lectures every day, 
Saturdays excepted.
Tuition a Term, $10.00. Books, $13.00.
Dr. Shipp will remain in the city, and can be found at
her office and residence, 66 S. First West Street.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fants Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made-Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at Manufacturers’ Prices, by
MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road
F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

