VOL. 13.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1885	NO. 17.


BRIDAL TRIBUTE. 

RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO——THEY KNOW
WHOM.

We wish you all the happiness
	That in a wedded life can be.
Obtained through constant faithfulness
	For time and all eternity.

Within a Temple's sacred shrine,
	When knelt beside an altar there,
By rite performed as God enjoins,
	You two became a wedded pair. 

Commenced aright:—now step by step
	The upward leading track pursue;
Should obstacles arise, look up
	And keep the royal end in view. 

Let God be first in all your thoughts—
	To do His will your highest aim; 
And if obedient to His laws,
	His special blessings you may claim.

New obligations wait you now,
	As wedded souls two joined as one;
Your separate int'rests all combine,
	Though in two lives your duties run.

To form connubial happiness,
	Let love commingle with respect;
And undissembling honesty
	A mutual confidence protect.

And now our blessing we extend
	In wishing you the rich behest
That noble deeds and efforts bring,
	And say, "In blessing be you blest."

	E. R. SNOW SMITH.
Dec. 20th, 1884.


LINES ON THE DEATH OF ELDER
ENOS LIONEL STOOKEY.

COMPOSED ON THE EVENING OF HIS BURIAL, AND
RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO HIS MOTHER.

In the spring the flowers will bloom again,
	The air be laden with perfume sweet
That the south winds bring of the bursting buds
	That are springing to life 'neath the zephyrs' feet;
The sun will smile on the ice-bound streams
	And send them dancing along their way;
And wonderful treasures of fragrant life
	Come out with the light of each opening day.

<i:'oome out="" with="" the="" light="" of="" each'opening="" day.="" batalaa!="" my="" flower="" that="" t="" loved="" and="" watchd="" "‘tlint="" grew="" to="" d="" prond,="" o’erstiadowlng="" tree,="" fs'jead="" by-="" touch="" spoiler's="" hand—'="" spring="" cannot="" bring="" backtts="" life="" te="" mel:;="" .="" v="" i="" bad="" thought="" hide="" ’neath="" its="" branches="" strong="" cta.="" vifhen="" withering="" heat="" day="" was="" high,="" rest="" in="" bcantlfnl="" shelter="" long,="" as="" bun="" crepf="" down="" way.="" but="" it="" fell,="" untouched="" by="" a="" slow="" decay—="" sweet="" strength="" crashed="" single="" hour,="" 'whilf="" stately="" beauty="" fair="" see,="" 6eemed,frill="" nnirieasnred="" power;="" fre="" who="" trained="" itb="" growth="" j'="" 8tand'here.in="" storm="" onr="" hearts'="" must="" .brave="" -and="" seo="" nothing="" above-="" bat="" btormy="" sky,’="" nothirig="" below="" but-this="" precious="" grave.="" '="" -="" ‘ifd'.l="" lionel—my="" boy—the="" hopes="" are="" hot="" vain—="" arise="" from="" thy="" tear-stained="" bed—="" purer="" an="" endless="" spring,="" ’="" 1="" (="" now="" only="" remember—iriy="" boyll="" dead.,="" v‘="" sirlve="" look="" np="" “father's="" face="" f.="" andread="" frownlngs="" blessing="" hld.,1="" brit,’ah="" cari="" be="" given1="" again="" ,r="" (j="" -like="" lost="" one="" rindcr="" coflln="" lid?="" 0gp,="" make="" us="" patient,wo="" two="" walk'="" l’"with="" weary="" feet="" toward="" gathering="" nighty="" <="" div="">But, alas! my flower that I loved and watched
	Till it grew to a proud, o'ershadowing tree,
Is dead by the touch of the spoiler's hand—
	Spring cannot bring back its life to me.
I had thought to hide 'neath its branches strong
	When the withering heat of my day was high,
And to rest in its beautiful shelter long,
	As the sun of my life crept down the way.

But it fell, untouched by a slow decay—
	Its sweet strength crushed in a single hour,
While its stately beauty was fair to see,
	And its life seemed full of unmeasured power;
And we who trained it and loved its growth
	Stand here in the storm our hearts must brave
And see nothing above but a stormy sky,
	And nothing below but this precious grave.

Lionel—my boy—the hopes are not vain—
	The hopes that arise from thy tear-stained bed—
Of a purer life in an endless spring,
	But now I only remember—my boy is dead.
I strive to look up in our Father's face
	And read in its frownings a blessing hid.
But ah! can a blessing be given again
	Like that lost one under the coffin lid!

O, God make us patient, we two who walk
	With weary feet toward the gathering night,


With this strange, deep grief like a shadowy cloud
	Shutting away all of earth's sweet light.
We would ask no greater boon than this
	Of the Father who pitied our anguish deep,
Than to walk in the path His life has marked,
	Then lie down at His side and forget to weep.

		LAUREL B. 
Sunnyside, Dec. 21, 1884.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG. 

Continued

	"The same night the prisoners, Gilbert, Mor-
ley and Corrill, were liberated from jail that
they might confer with their brethren and try
to negotiate some measure for peace, and on
their return to jail about two o'clock Tuesday
morning in the custody of the sheriff an armed
force of six or seven men stood near the jail
and hailed them; they were answered by the
sheriff, who gave his name and the names of
his prisoners, crying, "Don't fire, don't fire; the
prisoners are in my charge," etc. They, how-
ever, fired one or two guns, when Morley and
Corrill retreated, but Gilbert stood, with sever-
al guns presented at him, firmly held by the
sheriff. Two, more desperate than the rest, at-
tempted to shoot, but one of their guns flashed
and the other missed fire. Gilbert was then
knocked down by Thomas Wilson, a grocer in
the village. About this time a few of the in-
habitants arrived and Gilbert entered jail, from
which he, with three of his brethren, were lib-
erated about sunrise, without further prosecu-
tion of the trial.
	"On the morning of the 5th of Nov. the vil-
lage began to be crowded with individuals
from different parts of the county with guns, etc.
And report said the militia had been called out
under the sanction or instigation of Lieut. Gov.
Boggs; and that one Col. Pitcher had the com-
mand. Among this militia (so called) were
embodied the most conspicuous characters of
the mob; and it may truly be said that the ap-
pearance of the ranks of the body was well
calculated to excite suspicion of their horrible
designs. Very early on the same morning
several branches of the Church received intelli-
gence that a number of their brethren were in
prison and the determination of the mob was
to kill them; and that the branch of the church
near the village of Independence was in immi-
nent danger, as the main body of the mob was
gathered at that place. In this critical situa-
tion about one hundred of the Saints from dif-
ferent branches volunteered for the protection
of their brethren near Independence and pro-
ceeded on the road toward Independence and
halted about a mile west of the village, where
they awaited further information concerning
the movements of the mob.
	"They soon learned that the prisoners were
not massacred, and that the mob had not fallen
upon the branch of the church near Indepen-
dence as was expected. They were also in-
formed that the militia had been called out for
their protection, but in this they placed but lit-
tle confidence, for the body congregated had
every appearance of a county mob; which sub-
sequent events fully verified in a majority of
said body. On application to Col. Pitcher it
was found that there was no alternative but for
the church to leave the county forthwith, and
to deliver into his hands certain men to be

[Column 2]

tried for murder, said to have been committed
by them in the battle the evening before. The
arms of the Saints were also demanded by Col.
Pitcher. Among the committee appointed to
receive the arms of the church were several of
the most unrelenting of the July committee,
who had directed in the demolishing of the
printing office, and the personal injuries of that
day; namely, Henry Chiles, Abner Staples and
Lewis Franklin, who have not ceased to pursue
the saints from the first to the last with feelings
of the most hostile kind. These unexpected
requisitions of the Col. made him appear like
one standing at the head of civil and military
law, taking a stretch beyond the constitutional
limits of our Republic.
	"Rather than have submitted to these unrea-
sonable requirements the saints would have
shed their blood in the defense of their rights,
the liberties of their country and their wives
and children; but the fear of violating law in
resisting this pretended militia, and the flatter-
ing assurances of protection and honorable
usage promised by Lieut. Gov. Boggs, in whom
they had reposed confidence up to this period.
induced them to submit, believing that he did
not tolerate so gross a violation of all law as
has been practiced in Jackson Co. But the
great change that may appear to some in the
views, designs and craft of this man, to rob an
innocent people of their arms by stratagem,and
leave more than one thousand defenceless men,
women and children to be driven from their
homes among strangers in a strange land of, to
appearances, barbarians, to seek shelter from
the stormy blasts of winter's cold embrace, is
so glaringly exposed in the sequel that all
earth and hell cannot deny that a baser knave,
a greater traitor, and a more wholesale butch-
er or murderer of mankind never went untried,
etc. 
	"The conduct of Col. Lucas and Pitcher had
long proven them to be open and avowed ene-
mies. Both of these men had their names at-
tached to the mob circular as early as July,
the object of which was to drive the saints
from Jackson Co. With assurances from the
Lieut. Gov. and others that the object was to
disarm the combatants on both sides, and that
peace would be the result, the brethren surren-
dered their arms to the number of fifty or up-
wards, and the men present who were accused
of being in the battle the evening before gave
themselves up for trial. After detaining them
one day and night on a pretended trial for
murder, in which time they were threatened,
brickbatted, etc. Col. Pitcher, after receiving
a watch from one of the prisoners to satisfy
costs, etc., took them into a cornfield and said
to them, "clear."
	"After the surrender of their arms, which
were used only in self-defense; the neighboring
tribes of Indians in times of war, let loose
upon the women and children could not have
appeared more hideous and terrific than did
the companies of ruffians who went in various
directions, well armed, on foot and on horse-
back, bursting into houses without fear, know-
ing their arms were secured, frightening dis-
tracted women with what they would do to
their husbands if they could catch them, warn-
ing women and children to flee immediately or
they would tear their houses down over their
heads and massacre them before night. At the
head of one of these companies appeared the
Rev. Isaac Mc.Coy, with a gun upon his shoul-
der, ordering the saints to leave the county


forthwith and surrender what arms they had.
Other pretended preachers of the Gospel took
a conspicuous part in the persecution, calling
the Mormons the common enemy of mankind,
and exulting in their afflictions.
	"On the 6th of Nov. women and children 
fled in every direction from the merciless mob.
One party of about one hundred and fifty
women and children fled to the prairie, where
they wandered for several days, under the
broad canopy of heaven, with about six men
to protect them. Other parties fled to the
Missouri River, and to lodgings for the night
where they could find it. One Mr. Bennett
opened his house for a night's shelter to a wan-
dering company of distressed women and chil-
dren who were fleeing to the river. During
this dispersion of the women and children, par-
ties of the mob were hunting the men, firing
upon some, tying up and whipping others, and
some they pursued upon horses several miles."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE GRANGER FAMILY.

FROM THE "PHELPS CITIZEN"

	We are indebted to our former townsman,
Gamaliel Case, of Sodus, for the following cor-
respondence. The lady, Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, was the daughter of Oliver Granger and
grand daughter of Pierce Granger, both of
whom were born in Phelps:—Ed.
	LOGAN, Cache Co., Utah, Aug. 24, 1884.
MR. GAMALIEL CASE—DEAR COUSIN:
	I realize that this will be a strange message
to you, from a strange messenger.
	I learned by letter from our departed cousin,
Mrs. Pomeroy, that you knew of my visit to
Phelps and Newark last year.
	Uncle Elihu of Michigan told me of your
being in Sodus. I much desired to see you, but
all seemed so strange that I failed to accom-
plish it.
	One important object that I had in visiting
my native state, was to gather records of my
kindred dead. I could better explain to you
in person than on paper why I wish these re-
cords. I hardly hope to be able to make you
comprehend the importance this matter has for
me. You must know something of the pecul-
iar people with whom I have chosen to cast my
lot. One of our peculiarities is, we build Tem-
ples to the name of the God of heaven and
earth. They are built at great expense and
dedicated to the Most High. We enter there-
in and attend to ordinances most sacred, for
ourselves and such as we consider our worthy
dead. For instance, last Tuesday I enjoyed
the to me blessed privilege of entering the
Logan Temple font and being baptized by one
having authority, for your mother, my great
aunt, Sally Granger Case. Wednesday I re-
ceived endowments and blessings in the Tem-
ple for and in her behalf.
	At a future time I hope to officiate in seal-
ings and further ordinances for her. The seal-
ing ordinance is the eternal order of marriage,
or marriage for eternity.
	To complete the record of my work I want
you to send me the date and place of your
mother's birth and death. We are so peculiar
as to believe that what is properly done and
recorded in the Temples of our God will be re-
corded in heaven, and these are some of the
books from which we shall be judged.
	However absurd this may appear to you,
please gratify me by sending such names and
dates of your branch of the Granger family,
who are dead, as you can gather.
	I learned in Phelps that you had a pamph-
let containing an account of the early settlers
of that town. If you would be kind enough
to send it to me I will return it if you wish.
	If there is any one interested in me, my re-
gards to them.

[Column 2]

	I write at a venture not knowing whether it
will reach you. Logan is 100 miles north of
my home. I expect to remain here only one
week more for the present. This is the nearest
Temple to my home that is finished. Six years
ago I went to St. George Temple 300 miles
south and worked for my dead four months.
	I shall feel anxious to know whether you re-
ceive this so please drop me a line at once.
	Very respectfully your cousin,
		S. M. KIMBALL.

REPLY
MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL—DEAR COUSIN:
	Yours of the 24th of August last, came to
my home while I was on a visit to Old Ply-
mouth Bay, where the Pilgrim Fathers first
landed, where I remained some time with rela-
tives. After my return home your letter was
handed me, and indeed it was a strange message
and from a strange messenger.
	I did not write you immediately, for the
reason I had not quite all the dates you re-
quested. You ask to know of the honored
dead of the Granger family, of their birth,
death, etc. I cheerfully comply so far as I have
it, for indeed we sprung from a noble ancestry.
I copy the following from Elisha Granger's old
Bible as it lies before me in his own hand writ-
ing:

	Births of the children of Elisha Granger by Sarah
his wife.
	Elisha, born Feb. 23, 1768.
	Pierce, born Aug. 23, 1769.
	Elihu, born April 30, 1771.
	Sarah, born March 26, 1773.
	Eliphaz, born Feb. 9, 1775.
	Sarah my wife departed this life Feb. 15, 1775.

	Next, the death of my grandfather's second
wife, but I have no account of the death of his
third wife. And then follows his own death
who was your own great grandfather, as taken
from the tombstones in the old burial ground
in Vienna (Phelps), that he bought and gave
to the Methodists for a church lot and burial
ground and the Methodist church stands on
the same site to-day:

In Memory of
Hannah
the wife of Elisha Granger
 Who departed this life
June 26, 1807, in the
73d year of her age.

In Memory of 
Mr. Elisha Granger
who died April 12, 1821,
aged 77 years, 9 months and 9 days.

	Next I give the epitaph of your own dear
grandmother:

Sacred to the Memory of
Mrs. Clarisa Granger
the wife of Pierce Granger, Esq.,
who died Aug., 1813, in the
40th year of her age.

	Next, that of your Aunt Apamy, a noble
Christian woman:

Apamy,
wife of Elihu Granger
who died July 21, 1853
aged 8l years.

	This brings me to notice the death of your
Aunt Sarah Granger Case, as you call her, my
own dear departed mother. She died at my
house, the old homestead, Oct. 6, 1843, aged
70 years and six months. She was named
after my noble grandmother and you bear not
only the name of my mother but of that noble
grandmother that gave birth to our Granger
family, but died as you see by the above rec-
ord, leaving her young family and a babe six
days old.
	We turn next to our noble Christian grand-
father, your great grandfather, and note what

[Column 3]

he done with all those motherless children. In
a proper time he looked out a mother for
them, and did not let the animal part of man
predominate by running after some young girl,
but procured a mother that was ten years older
than himself to help bring up his children.
This was a noble act on his part. He was con-
verted under Jesse Lee, of Conn., and Lee
gave him license to preach. I have often seen
the license in his old family Bible. They
brought up their family in a Christian way
under all the disadvantages of a new country,
he being with his three oldest boys, the second
settler in the town of Phelps. That first sum-
mer in one of the settlements a person died and
our grandfather preached the funeral sermon,
the first one ever preached in Phelps, which
was in 1789. But in the fall they went back
to Connecticut, and did not move on with
their families until the next year.
	Our grandfather bought 1000 acres in
Phelps and 1000 acres in Sodus and placed
his children on his lands, but this was not
enough for him to do. He and his wife would
get up meetings in private houses, and camp
meetings, for at that time there were no
churches, and in answer to the prayers of their
father and mother, their children were all con-
verted, and your grandfather, my uncle Pierce,
who was also a local preacher in the Methodist
church, besides he was a Justice of the Peace,
and no person of his time was more favorably
spoken of, even to this day by all that knew
him.
	I do not find any record of my much loved
uncle Pierce Granger, he died in the west and
I hope you may be able to find it. I feel under
great obligation to my beloved grandfather and
my uncle Pierce and I regard them our worthy
dead. Have you any Temple font and endow-
ment blessing that could be secured in their
behalf as well? They were both married here,
one having three wives and the other two, but
not but one at a time.
	Of course, I am not aware of any celestial
marriage, or whether there is any for men, if
they are equally good. But so far as I have
been permitted in my limited experience to ob-
serve, I have noticed that those who took to
themselves more wives than one were not con-
sidered to be the best type of men; this holds
equally true among the ministry in the differ-
ent evangelical denominations. But you may
have become acquainted with a better class of
ministers among your "peculiar people," who
are trying to obey the teaching that a Bishop
should be the husband of one wife, etc.
	I have not the pamphlet of which you speak.
My grandfather's family were all born in old
Simsbury, Conn. If any further information
is desired please ask, and if you ever come this
way again I will be glad to see you,
	Yours, etc.
		GAMALIEL CASE.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Those interested in fair play for woman
ought to give the best attention for a few mo-
ments to Mr. King, the new president of the
Erie Railway. In very properly reducing the
enormous expenses of that corporation he cut
down all salaries, or nearly all;but in doing so,
instead of making the scale of reduction uni-
form in the same line of service, he reduced
the salaries of women employees 30 per cent.,
while those of men doing corresponding duty
and receiving about the same rates of pay were
reduced only 15 per cent. It would be inter-
esting to know what Mrs. King—if there be a
Mrs. King—thinks of this sort of discrimina-
tion against the sex to which she and the
mother of her husband belong."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WELCOME HOME!

ADDRESSED TO BROTHER BEN. BENNETT,
BY HIS WIFE.

Welcome, oh, welcome, to home and to me,
And thy children’s fond hearts have a welcome for
	thee!
Thy friends and thy neighbors will gather around,
And from brothers and sisters the welcome resound;
Thy mother will meet thee with welcome most kind
And from nephews and nieces a welcome thou'lt find.
My heart has been lonely while waiting to hear
The signal to tell me thy coming was near,
And, oh, how it beat when I saw by the press
That thou wert returning thy children to bless;
With thy precepts to guide them, thy fond love to
	cheer,
Thy presence to shield them from terror,or fear;
They will tell how they missed you when prayer time
	came 'round,
And they yearned for a look, or a smile, or a sound
Of thy voice to encourage, to soothe, or restrain.
To share their young joys and their faith to sustain;
Even baby has seemed for her father to mourn,
And daily looked forward to papa's return—
She was "going to Salt Lake to meet him," she said—
Twas her first thought at morn and her last going to
	bed;
And now she will see him—I scarce can believe
That thou art returning my cares to relieve;
To share in our pleasures, to chase our weak fears,
To brighten our smiles, and to dry up our tears,
To pray with us, talk with us, tell where thou hast
	been,
And give us an outline of what thou hast seen.
In the long winter evenings how good it will be
To feel I have round me my children and thee:
To see thy kind smile, feel the press of thy hand,
See thee mingle again with thy little home band
When their voices in praise to their Father on high
Are lifted in thanks that their papa is nigh,
And they ask to be granted this one prayer more,
That father’s long absence for some time is o'er,
And. across the broad ocean no more he may roam,
But his mission in future be nearer to home.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	The next inportant event was the arrival
of Almon W. Babbet and wife from Nauvoo,
This was on the evening of the 6th. He brought
considerable news; said the mob had complete
possession of the place, the Temple and all.
They had several mock ceremonies with differ-
ent individuals—had baptized Daniel Davis
three times. He saw Bishop Whitney, who
barely escaped, and was obliged to leave Nau-
voo secretly and speedily for St. Louis. He
stated that the mob had plundered numbers of
buildings, among which was the house of Bro.
Joseph Heywood, who was stripped of nearly
everything he possessed. They had defaced
the Temple considerably, both inside and out.
The shore of the city and all the approaches to
the city were strictly guarded to prevent the
ingress of "Mormons," and when any man was
found they immediately baptized him and sent
him over into Iowa. Mr. Babbet was advised
by the council, which had met to arrange some
difficulty between some of the brethren, to re-
main with us, but he seemed not very anxious
to do it.
	On the morning of the 9th he and wife
started back. Little John Smith, who had
come from Nauvoo with my father's family,
went with them to meet his mother, who was
about 150 miles back, near Mount Pisgah.
My husband mentions the death of Miss Eliza
A. Peirson, a niece of Dr. Richards, at his tent,
on the evening of the 10th.
	He says:  "She had left father and mother
far behind to join the Saints of God, in the
wilderness, to suffer and die among them for

[Column 2]

the Gospel's sake. She was a worthy, exem-
plary young woman, and the remembrance of
the many happy hours I have spent in her so-
ciety, together with her sisters and friends, will
never be obliterated while time shall last. She
was from Richmond, Massachusetts, where I
became acquainted with her during my sojourn
in the Eastern States."
	Under the same date is written the following:
"I. Redding returned from the Pawnee village
this evening, whither he had been by appoint-
ment to assist some families to remove back
here, whom Bishop Miller had left sick and
destitute." Bishop Miller had now become a
confirmed apostate. He had drawn away a
few weak and disaffected persons and some,
who, like himself, were corrupt at heart. They
were afterwards distinguished as Millerites.
Many of those who had traveled in his camp
returned to head quarters.
	On the 13th Horace speaks of a large camp
of Omahaws making considerable noise and
tumult in the village below, having received
their payment from the United States. "The
amount of money paid to them is $50,000,
which was brought up by land accompanied by
a guard of twelve men.
It is said that the Indians are killing our cat-
tle in great numbers below here, and they have
been here with beef to sell; no doubt the relics
of some of our cattle."
	On the evening of the 14th my uncle, Wm.
Murray, Bro. Harvey Green and Mr. Hovey
arrived from Nauvoo with their families, some
of them being very sick. They had been
three weeks on the road. They brought addi-
tional news, and according to their statements
the mob was pretty busy plundering houses,
ripping open feather beds and scattering the
contents in the street, knocking the horns from
the oxen on which the font was built, and run-
ning about the streets imitating the blowing of
horns with them and doing other acts of sac-
rilege. They had also torn down the altars
and pulpits in the Temple, and converted the
edifice into a meat market. The same spirit is
rampant to-day, and threats of a similar
character have been made by our enemies for
years past, but have been restrained by Him
who has said: "Thus far shalt thou go and no
further."
	But to return: On the 15th Horace wrote,
"Bro. W. Woodruff was brought into the
camp this afternoon from the woods severely
injured by the fall of a tree. Prest. Young,
Bro. Kimball, O. Pratt, Dr. Richards and
Joseph Young laid hands on him, after which
he appeared much relieved." He speaks of
Bro. Pond and family arriving on the 16th,
and all being quite sick with the ague. Con-
cerning the Omahaws he says, "They are lo-
cated about ten miles below here, where they
intend to remain this winter. They have had
for some time in contemplation a grand buf-
falo hunt, which they have abandoned in ex-
pectation of living and sustaining themselves
by the killing of our cattle instead, which they
are frequently detected in driving off."
	Sunday, the 18th, the weathar being toler-
able meeting was held at the stand. "The sub-
ject of our molestation by the Indians was
taken into consideration. It was thought to
be necessary to build our houses in a more
compact body and form our wagons in a circle,
that we might be better able to defend our-
selves against their encroachments. This was
the advice given by the interpreter who at-
tended meeting with some Indians at the stand."
It was further deemed proper to send out dif-
ferent companies in different directions after
the cattle. The companies were organized,
each consisting of twenty-one men. Brother
Winslow Farr, Z. Pulsipher and J. Redding
were appointed to go on the same business, as
captains of companies.

[Column 3]

	On Tuesday morning a general turnout was
made to go and drive in the cattle, in conform-
ity with the arrangements made at the meet-
ing. They spent a number of days hunting
them, and all that were found were put into
Father Cutler's yard, which was appointed as
the place of rendezvous, where the brethren
might come and each select his own cattle. In
the afternoon of the same day, the men who
were left in camp were summoned to go down
on the bottom and put out a fire, which was
raging greatly, and had already burnt a num-
ber of hay stacks. "But," Horace says "not-
withstanding all our efforts, we could not en-
tirely subdue it.	*	*	Brother
Kimball went and burnt round our stack in
order to sa ve it. The brethren at last suc-
ceeded in turning the fire in such a direction
that it should not do much injury."


A GENTILE DR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I think it is high time that I express my
thanks for your very good little paper, the Ex-
ponent, which I have received since I had the
pleasure of meeting Mrs. Richards and her son
at Washington.
	I have often thought I would pen a few
words from this way down East; whether it will
encourage or discourage is not for me to say.
I am often called upon to express an opinion
in regard to the condition of the Mormons, as
it is well known that I have been with them a
short time, and have frequently expressed an
opinion, especially in regard to polygamy as I
understand the same. As you probably are
aware that women are the greatest defamers of
women, such are those I meet and present to
them the better elements of the practice of
polygamy than the surroundings throughout
the world among all other so-called religionists.
The moral principles, to all intents and pur-
poses, seem to have passed away; there are few
exceptions. We find among the clergy, priests
and deacons of all sects, as well as the general-
ity of men and women, care only for self-grati-
fication, leaving their offspring to be murdered
or picked up by the police and sent to the
foundling asylums, and the mother (whom the
laws do not recognize) men have decoyed and
destroyed. These women, girls,are driven into
suicide, or a worse life while they live; the man
is free, legally irresponsible,while the girl is an
outcast.
	Bigamy is better than seduction. Those who
make laws are those who defile them; we need
laws enacted that will hold all classes, and all
sects, religionists and non-religionists. That
all men can have one wife; if they desire more
than one they must be equally responsible to
each and all, provide for them and the chil-
dren, and all equally recognized and legiti-
mate. This is the only plan to create morality
in the world.
		Dr. C. A. Von Cort.
New York.


ERRORS.—In the R. S. Report from Mill
Creek 89, 49, should read 89 bushels and 49
pounds; and in the place of Araminta E. Han-
son and Sarah Waters, should read Amanda
E. Harmon and Sarah Walters.
	In January 1, No. 15 of the EXPONENT, in
the Auutobiography of Emily D. P. Youug, an
error occurs which we feel called upon to cor-
rect. In the second column, 5th paragraph,
the word prevented should have read presented;
also the name of Brareal should be Brazeal,
and in the first chapter the name Jackson
should have been Jackman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten opics for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50; par month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I, Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher	WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1, 1885.


[Column 1]

MARVELOUS TIMES.

	Who ran say that these are not marvelous
times and big with wonderful events? Every
day some startling development is made that
makes one conscious of the fact that these are
the times that try men's souls to the very cen-
tre. With all the accidents of the nineteenth
century nothiug is so effectually calculated to
prove a destructive agency for the wicked and
ungodly as the invention and manufacture of
dynamite. What may not be accomplished by
this terrible agent of destruction when manipu-
lated by cruel, designing and unscrupulous men
or women, though we instinctively shrink from
the acknowledgement, yet women have been
proven equally cruel with men when occasion
required urgent action. For instance, in the
French Revolution, and in the case of "Shake-
speare's Lady Macbeth."
	The recent explosion in London has opened
the eyes of many who sat in darkness on this
subject, and that was no doubt only an experi-
ment, and ere long the nations will awaken to
the coneciousness of the astounding fact that
when there was seeming security, they were
treading upon dangerous ground that might at
any moment explode and swallow them up.
Secret societies, combinations and organizations
are banding themselves together for certain pur-
poses, and it would seem the time is fast ap
proaching when every man's hand will be
against his neighbor, and he who will not take
up his sword must needs flee to Zion.
	The war in Egypt has carried off its thousands
and tens of thousands already, and still it is in
progress. The terrible avalanches in Italy have
carried terror and desolation through a large por-
tion of that beautiful country, and left thou-
sands homeless and destitute, as well as burying
an unnumbered multitude alive. In our own
land cyclones in the south have frightened
many and destroyed much property; and storms,
shipwrecks and accidents and the like by
sea and by land are of every-day occurrence.
	In the mean time, how is it with the Latter-
day Saints? They are being persecuted by their
enemies, wickedness waxeth strong in high
places and in the hearts of the rulers of the na-
tion, the evil one is on the alert, knowing that
his time is short. The servants of the Most
High are being persecuted and driven to ex-
tremities, and the very principles of heaven are
being used as a weapon against the Saints to
banishment and imprisonment. Men who have
laid their all upon the altar for Christ's sake,
men who have endured much persecution here-
tofore, are taken up on the slightest pretext, and
their liberties jeopardized, their families intimi-
dated if possible and every indignity heaped
upon them until it seems more than human na-
ture can bear,

[Column 2]

	Ths recent cases that have been before the
courts here have been treated in such a way that
it makes one feel there is no such thing as jus-
tice and equity to be obtained, but only a deter-
mination to push to the very extreme those who
by some unforeseen circumstance or incident
have fallen into the hands of their enemies, who
are like ravenous wolves ready to devour all that
comes in their way and are ever on the alert for
more. They seem to forget the slippery places
on which they themselves stand, and the glass
houses in which they live; and while their eyes
have enormous beams in them, they are probing
for the mote that is in their neighbor's.
	But swift destruction awaits all such and they
will be overtaken as a thief in the night, and
will cry for help and none will hear.
	The way in which the officials, Prosecuting
Attorney and his assistants, have questioned
young women in the examinations that have
been made before the Commissioners is a dis-
grace. The most indelicate and obnoxious ques-
tions are put to innocent, pure-minded young
girls. How much longer this sort of thing can
be endured it is impossible to say. At present a
vigorous effort is being made by those in power
here to afflict and annoy peaceable citizens.
Next week will be a busy one for these con-
temptible deputies,and every woman who values
her honor wllf no doubt do her best to protect
herself from being confronted by one of them.
On the slightest pretext they serve a subpoena
and no one knows then, what his or her fate
may be.
	The statement or decision, if it can be so
called, made in the case of President Angus M.
Cannon is the weakest article one could imag-
ine. The Commissioner does not base his as-
sertion upon the evidence at all, but upon sup-
position, which it seems to any one possessing
ordinary common sense to be contrary to all law;
all deductions drawn are, or should be, accord-
ing to evidence and not supposition. But as
this is more persecution than prosecution, it will
of course pass muster, even though men’s liber-
ties are at stake; they are "Mormons," and that
accounts for it—these civilizers, regenerators,
purifiers, who are so anxious the laws should be
enforced, care no more for purity of morals than
they do for a pure atmosphere to breathe in,the
fumes of tobacco and whiskey in and around
theFederal court room are positively nauseating.
One cannot help thinking of the remark of Rev.
Olympia Brown, who said the aristocracy of
power was that of the moustache, whose insig-
nia was the spittoon, whose home was the smok-
ing car, and whose outward sign was the curling
tobacco smoke, etc., and with all propriety one
might add the fumes of whiskey.


[Column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS JOHN T. CAINE and Mrs. Franklin S.
Richards attended the recent Convention of
the National Woman’s Suffrage Association in
Washington.
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society, Y. L.
M I. A. and P. A. should bear in mind that the
semi-annual reports will soon be wanted now
for the Stake Conference.
	MRS. M. O. Kelting of California writes—
, 'Continue to sen[-] your dear little messenger to
my address. I find it like a little white-winged
comforter in my lonely moments and I pray that
[-]he angels of heaven and earth may continue to
bless and encourage the EXPONENT.”
	WE have had the pleasure of seeing a bust of
President Brigham Young, executed by one of
Utah’s young sculptors, Harry B[-]own of Logan.
It is life-like indeed. The peculiar expression
of the mouth and nose, and indeed of every fea

[Column 2]
ture; the very pose of the face is perfect, and the
smallest detail is perceptible. We congratulate
Bro. Brown on the wonderful success he has
made in developing his subject. It is an encour-
aging fact that Utah is making some considera-
ble progress in the direction of art cultivation.
	WE have received a sample copy of a new
magazine, entitled "Babyhood,”   edited by
Marion Harland, which is sufficient in itself to
recommend it. But as we have examined and
read it carefully we feel sure it is a work of mer
it and one that will assuredly recommend itself
to all who read it. It gives pleasant and happy
advice to mothers in reference to little ones and
makes timely and appropriate suggestions on
the topics connected with babyhood and mother-
hood.  Price:$1.50 per year, published in New
York City.
	THE news of the musical success of young
Edwards of Willard City, in competition
with so many professionals and compos-
ers from various parts of the world, is
quite startling. It must be a source of im 
mense satisfaction to the youthful author, and
It certainly should be considered an honor to all
who love Utah and are proud of her sons to
know that there is so much real musical talent
beginning to be developed, It proves the falsity
of the statements that Mormoniam chokes out
progress in every direction.
	WE have received from Washington the
“Brief and Argument” of George G. Vess,
Wayne Mac Veagh, Franklin S. Richards and
Charles W. Bennett for Appellant, Mary Ann
M. Pratt vs. Alexander Ramsey, A. S.  Paddock,
G. L Godfrey, A B. Carleton, J. R. Pettigrew,
E D. Hoge and John S. Lindsay, Appellees.
Supreme Court of the United States, October
Term, 1884. We have not yet had time to read
it carefully but from a casual perusal judge it to
be a very able and conclusive argument in favor
of the lady. It would be well for the sisters to
take pains to read up on theese subjects that are
of such importance to this people, that they
maybe thoroughly posted in matters pertaining
to the possession of the franchise, also property
rights, etc
	WE have also received in pamphlet form the
"Legislative Commission Scheme," the title of
the address of Hon. John T. Caine, delivered
in the People’s Mass Meeting, held in the Thea-
tre Nov. 3, 1884. It is a well-written and logi-
cal statement of facts, and eve y woman inter
ested in the condition of affairs should read it
carefully.
	A very pleasant ladies' tea party was given
at the Davereux House on Thursday, Jan 29,
by Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, who is a most enter-
taining and hospitable hostess. There were be-
tween thirty and forty la[--]es present, most of
them widows and missionaries’ wives. The
supper was very handsomely served, the table
being very beautifully decorated with fragrant
flowers. Mr and Mrs. Jennings as host and
hostess cannot be excelled. The afternoon and
evening were spent by the ladles in social con-
versation, and every one seemed to intensely
enjoy the visit. Davereux House is a beautiful
modern mansion, and with its large, and ele-
gant parlors, commodious dining apartments,
and handsome and complete library, conserva-
tory and other luxuries, possesses all the advan-
tages of a refined and luxurious home. We
heartily wish its inmates long life and health
to enjoy the blessings with which they are sur-
rounded.
	SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG'S birthday was
yesterady, Ja[-]. 31st. She was sixty-four years
of age. We congratulate her and wish her
many happy returns of the day and hope she
may enjoy life as fully and completely as she can
wish. Our readers are doubtless aware that she


has for some time past been officiating in the
Logan Temple. She expects shortly to take a
trip to Cascade Falls, Oregon, where her son,
Lieut. Willard Young, is at present stationed.
	SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH'S birthday
passed off very quietly. She received those who
called to congratulate her in her parlor at the
Lion House. The honored lady has now reached
the advanced age of 81 years. Her health is ex-
cellent, her faculties unimpaired; indeed her
memory seems as bright and perfect as ever,and
her mind as clear and active as it ever has been;
she still continues to write and works more
hours in the day than most young people. We
congratulate Sister Eliza on reaching her eighty-
first year and hope she may have many happy
returns of the day, with health and prosperity
and happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IMPORTANT DECISION.

THE JUDGMENT OF THE TERRITORIAL SUPREME
COURT AFFIRMED.

	WASHINGTON, January 19.—The Supreme
Court has rendered a decision in the
polygamy case of Rudger Clawson, ap-
pellant vs. the United States, an appeal
from the Supreme Court of Utah. Clawson
appellant, having been found guilty by a
jury of the crime of polygamy, and unlawful
cohabitation, was duly sentenced to pay a fine
aggregating $800 and imprisonment for four
years. He appealed to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and pending judgment on such
appeal, applied to the Court that sentenced him
for release upon suitable b[-]nds. The judge de-
nied application, on the ground that the defend-
ant ought not to be admitted to bail after con-
viction and sentence, unless some extraordinary
reason had been given. Clawson thereupon
sued out a writ of habeas corpus in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and prayed for release,
upon the ground that the Court below had un-
lawfully refused to admit him to bail. The Su-
preme Court overruled the petition and remand-
ed the prisoner to the custody of the Marshal,
whereupon he took the present appeal to this
court. This court holds that inasmuch as the
judgment of the Third Judicial Court, in which
the prisoner was tried, did not impose upon him
a fine only, but also imprisonment, his admission
to bail, pending appeal from that judgment, is
distinctly committed by the laws of Utah to the
discretion of the court or judge to whom appli-
cation for bail may be made. The Supreme
Court of Utah was, therefore, right in overrul-
ing the petition and remanding the prisoner to
the custody of the Marshal, and its judgment is
affirmed.
	Justices Miller and Field dissented.


[Column 1]

WATCHERS, WHAT OF THE HOUR?

	"The Lord, He is God!" for myself I acknowll
edge no other power; He has His agents—oppos-
ing elements there must be—and we see them
at work, The Savior said: "It must needs be
that offences come, but woe be to them by whom
they come." Some rejoice to do evil, rejoice to
afflict the righteous; such are ready instruments
for the offences named—hence we see there is no
injustice, for all may choose their own path,
therefore in the day of judgment they will stand
with their hand on their mouth, they preferred
works of darkness rather than light, therefore
they have their reward; their own conscience-
will be their judge.
	We live in a day and an hour when the most
light-minded must have their moments of seri-

[Column 2]

ous thought, I refer to L. D. S. especially, though
the thinking minds of the world are also at this
time posed to their full tension; but we have
done with the world. The Church and King-
dom of God is our world, and in that is full oc-
cupation for a true L. D. S.—first to look to
themselves, that their own door step is clean
and their own hearth bright and shining, made
so by a good heart, an eye single and a con
science void of offense towards God and towards
His creatures. The path of Saints was never
in any age a path of roses, only such as
the sunshine of the Holy Spirit can cause them
to produce and strew day by day on their indi-
vidual pathway, and this they have the tact and
the power to accomplish so that it is the warmth
and the sunshine and the fragrance of the same
that beautifies their life and makes even the
shades to be illumined. One would imagine such
a people would be beloved, would be admired as
worthy of imitation, especially by those calling
themselves Christians. Strange, passing strange
that such should excite "envy, hatred, malice
and all uncharitableness" in these "orthodox
Christians."
	Stay—are such Christians? Let me take the
New Testament and see how Christ organized
His church on earth during His brief mission on
the same. I read and realize that modern
Christianity is a libel, almost a burlesque; yea,
quite a burlesque, when I consider it in all its
phases, a mere ghost of that pure, simple, un-
adorned church of which Christ laid the foun-
dation, and then in His own person established
its living principles. All who read its records
intelligently must know that "comparisons are
odious" in such a review.
	The problem of the 19th century is simply a
restoration of this identical church, with all its
rights and ordinances and endowments estab-
lished again upon the earth by the Lord Him-
self calling out a youth as His Prophet, and
teaching him by His own mouth and Spirit how
again to re-organize His church upon the earth.
This God's truth was preached—thousaads glad
ly embraced it, souls that were hungering and
thirsting for the word of God. But there and
then rose up the opposing spirits and drove out
the embryo church again into the wilderness.
They traveled to a desert of sagebrush far away
from civilization and there they laid the founda-
tion of a city and of a territory without gold or-
silver, simply by the "sweat of the brow" and
the intelligence that God had freely given them;
and by the aid of His Spirit upholding them for
years they continued building homes, a place of
worship, and it was for years a home of saints,
as far as human nature can attain that title.
No saloon, no house of ill-fame, no place for sin
to establish itself contaminated its soil; peace,
union and sobriety reigned within its borders,
it grew, it increased in knowledge, wisdom and
understanding; missionaries were sent abroad;
the honest poor, and some rich rushed "as doves
to the window." Utah became a name—God
smiled upon her and blest the labors of the
honest, who left their homes like Abraham of
old to serve and worship Him exactly and pre-
cisely as the Savior laid down while on His
brief mission to this earth.
	Thousands from every land and clime flocked
to the standard erected in the mountains, ac-
cording to ancient prophecy. Utah, the one
word floating upon her banner; when behold
they were invaded by those who smelt gold and
riches of all kinds in this wonderful Utah. Mer-
chants rushed in with their merchandise of
every kind; soon they established the saloon as
a necessary appendage, and soon, behold the
demi monde flaunting through our streets, and
then came the railroad with its appendages, and
the very face of nature was changed—and so

[Column 3]

they get possession of homes, the land of which
had been prepared by the L. D. S., and instead
of stretching out the hand of neighborhood they
from the first laid plans to "oust the Mormons"
and usurp their homes and their possessions; and
not only so, but abuse, malign, traduce, and
even besiege Congress to raise the iron hand
upon this industrious, faithful, loyal people, and
strip them of those rights the glorious Constitu-
tion guarantees to all beneath her flag. Why is
this? The innocent, honest-minded ask. Read
the history of Christ while on the earth and
you will see "history repeats itself." Yet it
gives a solution nothing else can give of the
wherefore and why that this people are now so
cruelly persecuted. If infidels require a test of
the truth of ancient Scripture, let them read the
history of the latter day work—Christ's Church
re-established upon the earth, and their minds
must be opaque indeed if they do not see history
repeating itself, even like the voice of revelation.
Like those of old the saints cry out, Lord, how
long? Give us strength to endure to the end.
	HANNAH T. KING.


"THE WAY OF THE TRANSGRESSOR
IS HARD."

	They say, "Who seeth us and who knoweth
us?" God knows and sees all things, and all
things that we do he takes cogn zance of, and we
"are rewarded for the deeds done in the body,
whether they be good or evil."
	How necessary, then, that we do right and
not transgress God's laws and commandments,
for He cannot look upon sin with the least de-
gree of allowance. If we go into the secret
chamber to commit sin the word of the Lord
says, "It shall be revealed upon the house tops,
for the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not
His Saints; they are preserved forever: but the
seed of the wicked shall be cut off" "The
righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell there-
in forever." "The wicked watcheth the right-
eous and seeketh to slay him." Psalms 37th
chapter, 29th and 32nd verses.
	Oh! how great are the promises of the Lord to
the righteous. The Psalmist again says, "I have
not seen them forsaken nor their seed begging
bread," These are the days of repentance and
turning away from sin, that we may become a
sanctified people, waiting for the Lord's appear-
ing.
	Acts, 3rd chapter, 20th verse: "And He shall
send Jesus Christ, which before was preached
unto you." "Whom the heavens must receive
until the time of the restitution of all things,
which God hath spoken by the mouth of His
Holy Prophets since the world began." And as
the men of Galilee were looking up into heaven
the angels said, "This same Jesus which is
taken up from you into heaven shall so come in
like manner as ye have seen Him go into hea-
ven."
	Now, the Lord has been very merciful to the
inhabitants of the earth, and sent His holy
angels to warn them of judgments that are now
coming thick and fast, to repent of their sins,
accept of the true Gospel and prepare for His
coming again to the earth. It seems, indeed,
strange to me that people will persecute the
Latter-day Saints, because they promulgate the
true Gospel of the former-day Saints. The
Priesthood had to be restored by revelation, and
was—to Joseph Smith. He received the plates
on which the Book of Mormon was written, and
translated it by the gift and power of God. The
Urim and Thummin he received also, which
cons[-]itut[-]d him a seer and revelator, and a great
prophet to the world of mankind. God gave
him the greatest knowledge of doctrine, of prin-
ciples and history, of any man on the earth. He


gazed into the past and knew how to arrange
prophecy, he was active in the present to estab-
lish the Church of Christ, with that unity of
faith, which is the world's wonder, without
flaws, cross, or clashing of sentiment. His
knowledge of the future led his mind beyond
the grave to comprehend the immortal destiny
of God's creation. The work that be did could
not have been done without the aid of our
Father above. Joseph Smith was rejected be-
cause he was poor and because he testified to
the truth as God showed it unto him; and as
God's ways are not like man's ways, to which
the world cannot conform, no more than the un-
godly could to Christ's teachings,when He came
to the Jews. The Lord says He will do a strange
work and a wonder; and again, He says, He will
do nothing except He reve[-]leth Himself to His
servants the prophets. Then how can He do
His work on the earth without a prophet? Says
the unbeliever, "We need no more of these
things." If this be true, then God will be silent
forever and infidelity reign triumphant. We
must no more peruse the sacred book and believe
in its inspired pages. Its unfailing prophecies
in the past mark definitely its fulfilment in the
future, and as God is an unchangable being, He
will bring about His purposes in the same plain
and comprehensive manner as He has done in
all ages of the past.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 16th annual convention of the National
Woman's Association has just terminated, and
in the main has been a success, though there
was imminent danger of disruption, to an ex-
tent, at least for a time. The convention was
held in the "Church of our Father"—Universal-
ist. The attendance throughout does not seem
to have bean as large generally as the year pre-
ceding—that is, attendance of people not actual-
ly members. This decrease, however, is proba-
bly due to the fact that the place ot meeting was
not so centrally located as is Lincoln Hall,
where the meetings had been held heretofore,
and could not be reached within several squares
by the street cars, the cold weather also may
have had the effect of lessening the number
present. However, in the evenings there were
generally as many as could comfortably be
seated, and the meetings were spirited and cal-
culated in the main to awaken a greater interest
in the movement and to furnish convincing
proof of its justice to those who may still enter-
tain doubts on the subject.
	Six sessions were held, two each day, begin-
ning at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m.,beginning on Tuesday
and continuing through Wednesday and Thurs-
day. The afternoons were devoted to reports
speeches and addresses; the evenings to ad-
dresses only, and while some were inclined to
weakness, there were many noticeable for depth
and breadth.
	The first meeting of the convention was
opened by invocation by Rev. Alex. Kent. On
the stand, platform or pulpit were seated Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Matilda
J. Gage, Ellen S.Fray, Caroline G. Rogers, El-
len H. Sheldon, Lillie D. Blake, and others,
while close about the platform were ladies iden-
tified with the movement who were more or less
prominent. The opening address was delivered
by Mrs. Stanton. She spoke in congratulatory
terms of the assemblage and the progress of the
work, ard said if men were not capable of mak-
ing cities and towns safe for youths to live in,
then they had better give way and see what
women could do. The women of the Republic

[Column 2]

had not done their duty so far in not taking
pains to see that their husbands were interested
in the subject and had formed an opinion on it.
Mrs. Stanton asked them to make up for lost
time. The members of each profession were
willing that woman should enter all others but
their own, though she had shown her ability to
shine in them all.
	Lillie D Blake gave a report of the work in
New York and made some extended remarks.
The way to stop opposition was to kill off those
who opposed the work. She told how she and
others had worked to defeat the election of as-
semblymen who had opposed the suffrage move-
ment as members of the State Legislature; and
called attention to the success with which their
efforts had met in killing these men politically
who worked against them and condemned them
to that death from which there was no res-
urrection. Every woman, she said, could
control at least one vote. Borne were
married, others would, she hoped, be
so soon, but if no such influences were
possible, then she should go to her groceryman
and others with whom she dealt and see that
he was in favor of the movement and would
support it with his vote, or she would give her
custom to some one that was in sympathy with
the cause.
	Sarah M. Perkins made a very able report of
the work done in Ohio, and she told graphically
how the Woman's Christian Temperance Union
had by a prayer been brought to espouse the
cause of woman's suffrage and make that cause its
own ,for the reason that the Temperance could
never hope to accomplish any permanent good
until woman, by the ballot, could say that the
dram shop 'round the corner, which was des-
troying her darling boys, should be forever
closed.
	Mrs. Perkins was followed by Frances E. Barr,
who reported work in Connecticut. The report,
while mainly encouaaging, was not as satifac-
tory as could be desired.
	Mrs. Harriet Shattuck of Malden, Mass.,gave
an address on "What Woman's Suffrage
Means." She went on to show that responsi-
bilities multiplied upon men and they were the
better for it, and that year by year duty upon
duty have been added to women and she had
ever qualified herself for it. The whole subject
was centred in the word—responsibility, and
while women already had many she wanted one
more—that of suffrage. She ridiculed, and ably
too, the idea that disqualification should be in-
sisted upon because of sex, and argued such a
conclusion to a logical conclusion, showing the
utter absurdity of such a position.
	Resolutions were then read, and it was stated
they would be open for discussion on the follow-
ing afternoon.


NEW YEAR'S RECEPTION.

	Sister E. R. S. Smith spent the Holidays iu
Brigham City. During her visit here she at-
tended several of our meetings and social gath-
erings and contributed much to their profit and
social enjoyment.
	On New Year's day a reception was held in
Prest. Lorenzo Snow's residence in honor of our
esteemed sister, under the supervision of Prest.
Minnie J. Snow, assisted by her counselor, Miss
Freddie Widerborg. One hundred ladies from
different wards of the city, members of the R.
S. and Y. L. M. I. Associations, in groups of
twenty five arrived at various intervals during
the day. As each party of guests appeared they
were cordially received, introduced and seated
in the parlor, where Sister E. R. S. Smith gave
expression to her surprise and appreciation of


this unexpected honor. Indulging a short time
in social conversation, many reminiscences of
by-gone days were related. At the expiration
of the time thus pleasantly employed, all re-
paired to the dining hall, surrounded the taste-
fully spread tables to partake of refreshments.
Here toasts, sentiments, etc., enlivened the
scene. Every succeeding company took Sister
E. R. S. S. unawares, as she supposed each de-
parture completed the day's surprises.
	One feature of the occasion was of peculiar in-
terest; the last party were Scandinavians, many
of whom were advanced in years, their counte-
nances radiant with joy as with faltering step
they advanced, to greet their esteemed friend.
At the table the kind wishes and pleasing senti-
ments offered in their native tongue, were inter-
preted by Sister Mary Stars, their President
and el[-]cted hearty and appropriate responses
from Sister E. R. S. S. and our generous hostess.
So passed the day: the occasion cheered and
made happy many hearts, and we all realized
the truthfulness of the proverb—"In blessing we
are blest."	M.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.

	GARDEN CITY, Rich Co., Jan. 15,1883.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking perhaps a few items from our north-
ern country would be welcome, I will try to pen
a few lines.
	I can truly say that your valuable little paper
is an ever welcome guest; we read it and enjoy
the instructions therein. And while we are en-
joying peace here, for which we feel thankful,
we do not know for how long a time. When I
read of what is termed legal proceedings with
our brethren in different places, many of them
born legal heirs to the Constitution for which
our forefathers fought and bled, I can but ex-
claim, Where, oh, where has liberty fled? They,
for the exercise of their religious faith, are put
into prison and fined; whereas, our glorious
Constitution guarantees unto all religions to en-
joy that right. It was written by inspiration,
and has prepared the way for the bringing to
pass the purposes of the Lord in establishing our
holy religion upon the earth in these the last
days. Then let us all, sisters, pray earnestly
unto the Lord to hasten the time when our
brethren may be removed from prison and re-
turned to their families and the bosom of the
Church, which may God grant.
	Our Relief Society in this place is in good
condition; we hold our meetings regularly, and
have the Spirit of God with us. The Young
Ladies' and Primary Associations are in success-
ful operation.
	Praying the Lord to bless you and give you
strength for your great labor, and for the differ-
ent societies and associations, I am your sister
in the Gospel,
	ANN E. COOK.


﻿PATTY SESSIONS.

[Continued.]
	Sister Sessions' notes in her diary are most
of them of a personal character; still we find
so many familiar names, it is pleasant to men-
tion one or more incidents connected with her
occupation in those days.
	On the 22nd of February she speaks of hav-
ing attended Sister Lightner, who had a son
born at that time. On the 7th of June Newel
Knight's wife had a daughter born. On the
14th of June her son Peregrine returned from
his mission East. On the 26th of July Orson
Spencer's wife had a daughter. September 27
she ays sthe Governor's troops were there.


[Column 1]

	We pass over the trying scenes of the people
in Nauvoo before and after the death of the
Prophet and his brother. Suffice it to say that
Sister Sessions suffered with the people in sac-
rificing her home, etc., and also mourned much
in her own breast, for she had the most pro-
found admiration and respect for him as the
Prophet of God.
	The Temple meantime was finished and dedi-
cated, and Bro. and Sister Sessions received
their endowments therein. They had assisted
in building it all in their power,and those were
days when the people were poor and persecut-
ed and had much to endure.
	The exodus from Nauvoo was an important
event, not only in the history of this Church,
but in the annals of the American nation, and
it will ever be a disgrace in the records of the
United States, where so much boast has been
made of freedom and religious liberty. We
pass on now to Sister Sessions' description of
leaving that beautiful city, and give it in her
own words:
	"Feb. 10, 1846, Nauvoo, or the City of
Joseph. My things are now packed ready for
the West, this afternoon I attended to the ac-
couchement of Mrs. Harriet Young; she had a
son. On the 11th I went to the Hall to see the
panorama of the massacre, as shown by Bro.
Dibble. 12th. This morning we bade our
children good-bye, camping at Sugar Creek,
where the exiles had made a sort of gathering
place for teams and wagons previous to start-
ing. Sister Sessions, writes on the 16th: "Pres-
ident Young came into camp this morning; it
is very cold and the wind blows hard and I
can scarcely get near the fire for smoke and we
have no tent. 17th. The brethren have begun
to organize and we go in the first hundred,sec-
ond ten, Prest. Young's company, Capt. Hol-
man."
	The weather continued severe; it was the
month of February and the people had just
left warm, comfortable homes. On the 22nd
Sister Sessions speaks of having visited Louisa
Beamen and Eliza R. Snow. On the 23rd Bro.
Sessions got canvas for a tent and Sister Ses-
sions made it herself. During the few days
they were in camp several children were born,
Sister Sessions attending some of the sisters in
their confinements.
	The last day of February the camp began to
move on slowly; the weather was inclement and
there were various difficulties and hindrances.
Sister Sessions speaks of having to drive the
team every now and then, because the cow gets
lost and her husband goes to hunt for it. On
the 16th Sister Sessions says she visited Sister
Zina D. with Sister Eliza R., and on the 22nd
she writes they cross the Shariton River; here
everybody had to double teams to get up the
bank and all the wagons had to have ropes at-
tached to them to drag them. It was at that
place she speaks of Sister Zina D. having a
son born. The weather was cold and wet and
the roads were so bad it was almost impossible
to travel.
	On the 6th of April she writes: "President
Young came into camp driving his own team,
then lighted a fire as happy as a king." That
night there came up a fearful thunder storm,
and at 2 o'clock in the morning Sister Sessions
was called up, a brother had come two miles
on horseback to fetch her, she rode back be-
hind him on the horse through the storm, the
mud and the water sometimes belly deep to the
horse; the child was born before the husband
and midwife arrived. The sister had traveled
13 miles after her sickness came on,had crossed
a creek on a log after dark, the storm had
carried the bridge away, and camped in an old
deserted log cabin. In such places as these
by the wayside many little ones were born that
are now fathers and mothers of families, though
many died as well as many of the mothers who
could not endure the hardships and fatigue.

[Column 2]

Sister Sessions' journal gives many items in re-
gard to building the bridges and difficulties
which hindered the onward progress of the
camp of Israel. Sometimes the teams would
get lost and the brethren would have to go out
hunting for them. Sister Sessions often men-
tions in her journal of dividing the little she
had with others who had still less, also of walk-
ing miles and miles, day after day, because the
teams were weak and they were short of food
for them. On the 19th there was a public
meeting, the first one called after leaving Nau-
voo.
	"Saturday, May 2. It has rained continu-
ously for six days and my bed has been wet
all the time; to-day I got my bed out to dry for
the first time." Sunday she writes it was rain-
ing hard again. Friday, 8th, she writes: "over-
hauled our wagons and sent off a saddle and
harness to sell; weighed our load, the weight
was 1,321 pounds, 551 is provisions, and we
have been dividing out ever since we started."
On the 10th she said they had a meeting and
the sacrament administered. "Thursday, 12th,
visited Sister Horne, who was sick, and Sister
Taylor, who was lame."
	The Saints at this time were stopping and
making a settlement; they fenced in some land
into a sort of big field and built some houses,
left some families there to take care of it and
put in a crop to make a sort of resting place
by the way, where those coming later might
find shelter and comfort in their journeyings.
On the 15th she writes in her journal: "Some
brethren from Nauvoo overtook us, they have
only been three weeks on the way and we have
been three months. They bring letters for
the brethren and sisters from relatives and
friends left behind."
	Monday, 25th, Sister Sessions says she was
feeling very bad and had been crying, think-
ing of her children she had left in Nauvoo, and
her mother in the State of Maine, and many
little things she had to contend with in her
travels, and Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister
Markham came up to her wagon and it gave
her great joy to see these sisters. "28th, visited
Eliza Snow and Parley Pratt's folks. 29th.
Sister Rockwood gave me some tallow and I
run seventeen candles, thought it quite a pres-
ent. Lucy Walker arrived here to-day from
Nauvoo. Sunday, 31st, I was called to Parley
Pratt's, Mary had a son."
	At this time the Saints had reached another
stopping place, which was named Mt. Pisgah,
and Sister Sessions on leaving that place says:
"We leave many good brethren and sisters
here, Sisters Horne, E. R. Snow, Zina D. and
Emily P—— and many more. Wednesday,
3rd, she says, "Sister Horne sent on for me, I
went back to Mt. Pisgah and attended to her;
she had a daughter. I rode on horseback
seven miles each way." So she writes from
day to day how they journeyed on, and of the
various hindrances and stopping to make
bridges, etc. On the 28th of June a meeting
was held on the banks of the Missouri river or
the "Bluffs" near, where Dr. Willard Richards
preached to the people and spoke very feeling-
ly of its being the anniversary two years since
of his coming into Nauvoo with the bodies of
the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum. "Wednes-
day, July 1st, Brigham Young has moved
down to the river, the boat is done ready to
cross."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	CORRESPONDENCE
	PROVIDENCE, Cache Co., Jan. 20, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As it is seldom that an article appears in
your valuable little paper from Providence, if
you can spare the space I will inform the read-
﻿
[Column 2]
ers of the EXPONENT how we are progressing
in the work of God.
	The people are trying to live their religion,
and are enjoying a goodly portion of the Spirit
of God. All our associations are in a flour-
ishing condition,and a greater interest is taken
in them now than at any previous time. Our
Primary Association cannot be surpassed.
Every year about a week before Christmas
they have a fair and display all the work they
have done during the past year. All kind of
work is to be seen there, and some of it is real-
ly beautiful. In the morning there is an ex-
amination of all they have learned, and one
cannot help but mark the progress they have
made. It is a lovely sight to see the little ones
clinging to their parents and pointing to some
article they have made and say, “See, mother
I made that! isn’t it pretty?” And a very good
feature of the fair is: parents come and see
what their children have done and do not feel
satisfied until they have purchased it. By do-
ing this the association is supplied with funds
to pay its expenses.
	The Relief Society and Y. L. are progress-
ing favorably. They hold their meetings reg-
ularly, and they are well attended.
	There has been much sickness this winter,
but the health of the people is now good. There
have been a few deaths, however, and among
those who have passed from the troubles and
sorrows of this life are Sisters Lovisa Miller
Hammond and Mary Morris Gibbs. Sister
Hammond was the daughter of Daniel and
Clarissa Pond Miller. She was born Oct. 1st,
1834, in Hancock Co., Illinois, and removed
with her parents to this Territory when only a
girl. She was married to M. D. Hammond on
the 11th of Dec., 1853, and was the mother of
eleven children, all of whom are living, except
one daughter aged fifteen years, who died two
weeks before her mother. She died Dec. 9th,
1884, and leaves a large family and a wide cir-
cle of friends to mourn her loss. Sister Ham-
mond had been President of the R. S. of this
place for two years, and during that time she
did her utmost to make a good President. All
the members of the society respected and sus-
tained her in her position.
	Sister Gibbs, wife of Richard W. Gibbs, was
born July 15,1821, in the small town of Pon-
tyeats, Caernarthanshire, South Wales, and
was the mother of six children. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints in 1845, and from that time to
the time of her emigration to Utah in 1869,her
house was a continual resort for the Elders,
and none ever came who were not welcome, or
did not feel her generous spirit. Sister Gibbs
died very suddenly on the morning of the 14th
of January, not having been sick a minute, to
any one’s knowledge. About seven o’clock
her husband heard her make an unusual noise,
but before he could light a lamp she was dead.
She died as the had lived, a true saint, and
many warm friends mourn her loss.
	The people are enjoying many blessings be-
stowed upon them by their Heavenly Father,
and many manifestations of His power and
goodness are shown  continually in our midst.
I can testify to many instances where He has
made manifest His power in healing my little
children and myself when we have been sick,
and in caring for us and comforting me in my
lonely hours while my husband is on his mis-
sion; and also in caring for my husband,raising
up friends for him, and giving him health and
strength that he may go forth and carry His
word to the honest in heart and teach them the
principles of the Gospel. For all His mercies
and blessings I am truly thaukful and grateful,
and desire to continue a faithful servant in
His Kingdom. 
	ANNE W. SMITH.


KOOSHAREM, Jan. 11, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that you would like to hear from
us in this remote valley, we will give you a
brief sketch of what we are doing.
	Our Society is in as good a condition as we
can wish for; we have a good substantial log
house and a granary attached to it, which will
accommodate us for several years, which has
been dedicated. The sisters all seem to be
alive to their duties and are willing and on
hand to help roll forth this great and mighty
work which we are engaged in,
	Wishing the EXPONENT success, for it is a
welcome visitor in our midst.
	Respectfully,
	MARGARET ANDERSON, Pres.
	ANNIE M. WRIGHT, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


PRIMARY REPORT
		   	
	Minutes of Primary Association of Fifth
Ward, Jan. 14, 1885, Prest. Clark presiding.
Opened by singing“Gather up the Sunbeams;”
Prayer by Prest. Clark; Singing "Nay, speak
no ill.”	Roll called, 57 members present; min-
utes read and accepted. The programme was
then carried out as follows: Recitation by E. 
 Brimley; Recitation, R. Cowan; Song, Mor-
mon Boy,” Roy Palm[-]r; Essay, “Happiness,”
Amy Harper; Reading from Doc. & Cov., Lily
Pettit; Song, “Dare to be a Daniel,” E. Abbott;
Organ Solo, Lizzie Marsden, Duet, Lottie and
Ella Marcroft; Bible Reading, Ernest Brown;
Duet by Lily Appleby and Lizzie Brown.  An
account of the annual meeting was then read,
	Sister Clawson then said that she was
pleased to be present, and especially to see so
many boys, as this spoke well for the future.
Asked how many dismissed meeting, also who
were the Bishop and Counselors of the ward
and Superintendent of Sunday School, which
was answered promptly by members. Spoke
about the necessity of being obedient, polite
and unselfish; hoped all would remember to
pray and be ready to do whatever Sister Clark
desired.
	Sister Ferguson then said Sister Clawson
had praised the boys,but one thing she noticed
was, that their hands were very dirty (when
quite a number put them in their pockets).
Spoke about a story she had heard, where a
little boy whose mother was sick, had prayed
for her, and she recovered through his faith.
Said children’s prayers are sometimes heard
even more than ours, as their prayers are so in-
nocent and they have great faith. Spoke of
the consequences of disobedience. Said honor
thy father and mother was a revelation to
children, and if you are in the path of duty
the Lord will send His guardian angels to pro-
tect you; but if you do wrong the adversary
will tempt you. Asked all to pray for the
Lord to preserve them from every ill.
	Sister Clark then said she hoped all would
remember the instructions which had been
given, and would like  to  see visitors at any
time. 
	Programme was then read; closed by singing
“Love at Home;” Benediction by Sister Claw-
son.


﻿GOOD TIME AT WILLARD.

EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	Thinking that a few lines from our quiet
little town would not be uninteresting to the
many readers of your valuable paper, we en-
close the following:
	It is a general time of good health among
the people of this place. The holidays have
passed off quietly and pleasantly; especially so
did Christmas day, when a social party was


held under the auspices of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Willard, which was a very enjoyable and
praiseworthy affair.
	At 1:30 o’clock p.m., the invited guests as-
sembled at the hall, which was tastefully de-
corated with mottoes, pictures, etc., for the oc-
casion. At 2 o’clock the afternoon exercises
began, and until 5 p.m those present were en-
tertained with speeches, songs, recitations and
instrumental music, all of which were credit-
ably rendered.	
	The afternoon exercises being over, all were
permitted to partake freely of the contents of
the baskets of the members of the. Y. L. M. I.
A., which were well filled with the bounties of
this earth, so tastefully prepared that none
could refuse partaking of the pleasant repast,
After picnic those present went forth and en-
joyed themselves in the dance until near mid-
night, when all wended their way home im-
pressed with the idea that the day was one not
soon to be forgotten.		
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	MARION.S. PERRY, Prest.,
	LOTTIE E. HUBBARD Cor. Sec.


OBITUARY

	DIED, at St. Johns, Arizona, Sister Harriet Zelnora
Chapman, beloved wife of Elder Welcome Chapham
Deceased was born May 13, 1854, in Sheffield, Yorkshire
England; emigrated in the William Tapscot, 1862, with
her mother and a younger sister. She has been the
mother of four children; only one, a little girl aged 13,
now living. Bro. and Sister Chapman were called to
Arizona on a mission at the last Spring Conference
Early in Octob[-]r Sister Chapman was hooked by a cow
and died ten weeks afterwards from the effects of the
injuries recelved.
	She was a loving daughter, wife and mother: we
mourn her loss, yet feel all is well, with those who have
been faithful and true and have endured unto the end.
May our Heavenly Father shed abroad His Holy Spirit
in the hearts of those who mourn,especially her mother,
Sister Sarah Mc.DonaId of this city, whose heart is
sorely stricken at the loss of her daughter; and may she
remember in this her hour of sorrow the comforting
words of our blessed Savior: “Blessed are they that
mourn, for they shall be comforted"—and the words of
the inspired Prophet of God who said, “Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord; yea, they rest from th[-]ir la-
bors and from henceforth their, works shall follow
them.”—COM.
				
	DIED, at South Cottonwood Ward, Dec. 2nd, 1884,
of a chill, Floy, beloved daughter of Joseph H. and
Nancy E. Proctor; aged ten years and eleven months.
	We, The Primary Association of South Cottonwood
Ward, in view of-the loss we have sustained by the
decease of our friend and associate,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that it is but a just tribute
to the memory of the departed, we offer to the parents
our sincere sympathy, and say, while we mourn the loss
of our dear Floy, we shall look forward with joy to the
time when we shall meet the dead. The angels called
and in ways of an all wise Providence it was that she
should go. Though the days are dark now springtime
will come once more. Thus we trust pleasant days will
come again for you and yours.
	"This lovely bud, so young, so fair,
		Called hence by early doom, 
	Just came to show how sweet a flower
		In paradise would bloom.”
		MRS. ELIZABETH DAVIS, Prest.
		MRS. MARGARET CAHOON,
		MRS. SARAH A. WOOTON,	Counselors. 
And members of the South Cottonwood Ward Primary
Association.
		EMILY E. BRINTON, Secretary.


[Column 1]
	Home-Made Silks!

Home-Made silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
	grains. Brocaded and Plain Satins and
		Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
		MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
	Second House South  of Silk Factory, Canyon Road

[Column 2]
﻿THE PLACE
	TO BUY BEAUTIFUL AND ARTISTIC
Home Made Valentines
	is at	
C. R. SAVAGE’S ART BAZAR.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,	
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS, AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And	an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and, Complete Stock of
	MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box [---], SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 13.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1885.


OUR TRUST IS IN GOD.

No one can come between me and my God;
	None can hide from me His glorious face;
But I may walk the path which Jesus trod,
	And unrestrained may seek His love and grace.

Oh, glad assurance! this but proves to me 
	Beyond a doubt my own divinity, 
For though I bend beneath the chastening rod,
	No one can come between me and my God.

No earthly power, no king nor potentate,
	No power of hell can dare to touch the soul 
Immortal, God-like; no one can dictate,
	Or bring the heart’s emotion ’neath control.

The body they may torture and afflict,
	Imprison, take the life which God has given, 
The soul its upward flight cannot restrict
	It will return again to God and heaven.

How vain the plans and schemes of mortal men
	To dare coerce our faith and trust in Him, 
To try to dictate what we shall believe, 
	Or say how much of truth we shall receive.

We neither tremble or defy their power,
	But bravely meet the issues of our cause;
We will not falter in the trying hour;
	Our God will help us to obey His laws.
	E. A. BENNION.
Feb. 4th, 1885.


[Column 1]
	THE PRESENT DAY.
			    	
	FOR THE YOUNG LADIES’ M. I. ASSOCIA-
				  TIONS
				  
	What is the present but the connecting link
between the past and the future?  Through 
and during the present alone we can make the
past improve the future.  All the improve-
ments of civilization have come to us from the
knowledge and proper criticism of the events
of the past, by right-minded and ambitious
men and women.  But for them and their la-
bors the world of to-day would be groaning un-
der the chains of cruel barbarism.  As great
as between noonday and midnight gloom is the
contrast between the Constitutional Govern-
ment of the United States of America and
that of the most enlightened nations of two
centuries ago.  The same can be said of arts
and sciences; we do not hear of a cathedral be-
ing a century in  process of erection.  In less
than a century the improvements, inventions
in all arts and sciences have been multitudin-
our; but how and by whom have they been
brought about?  Not by the drones, who said:
"Let us eat, drink and be merry, for to-morrow
we die.”  No, but by men and women whose
education at the school of endurance, hard-
ship and abnegation, has resulted in a stern
sense of duty to future generations, and an un-
quenchable thirst for knowledge. “Knowledge
is power!”  What a theme for reflection! But
I am addressing myself to the young ladies of
Utah on the subject of the present, and the du-
ties and privileges it holds out to them.
	I hope none of my young sisters are igno-
rant of the fact that it is their privilege and duty
to become wives and mothers, and thould there-
fore spend their youth in qualifying themselves
for these important callings.  Do they think
of these things as they meet in their Improve-
ment Associations?  Do they suggest means to
check evil and promote good?  The physical,
intellectual and moral improvement of the

[Column 2]
girls of to-day means the improvement of the
nation in the next generation.
	I do not think that the real object in organ-
izing these associations for young ladies is ever
mentioned in some places, and seldom referred
to in others.  They are for improvement, say
some.  Yes, so are the day schools and Sunday
Schools; but why are young ladies organized
into societies of their own?  That they may
exchange thoughts, make suggestions as to the
best means of retaining their health and vigor,
how to cultivate good manners without affec-
tation, and how to store their minds with use-
ful knowledge without neglecting the most
practical duties of house-wifery. 
	Do not deem me harsh if I make bold to re-
mind you that the children of a sulky, weak-
minded, self-indulgent mother can scarcely be
expected to become fine, intelligent, fearless
men and women.
	Young ladies, do you realize that the work
of regeneration and reform, for the next half
century, depends a great deal upon you, indi-
vidually and collectively?  It is so whether
you realize it or not.  It is for you to decide
whether the men and women of the near future
shall be of the fine physique, sturdy valor and
sterling integrity, or frivolous, slothful and ef-
feminate.  The past is open to you to read and
reflect upon; tha present is the field for you to
labor in, and the future anxiously awaits the
result.
	E. C. FRANCIS.


[Column 1]

PRAYER.

"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire."

	Our most inward thoughts and desires, wheth-
er good or evil, are known to the Lord; He
can read our hearts as we can read a printed
book. Then how necessary it is for us to be
pure in our thoughts as well as in our actions.
God is the Father of our spirits; His ears are
always open to the prayers of His children.
What a beautiful, consoling thought to know
that we have a Father in heaven whom we can
approach in our hour of trial and tribulation,
even if we are deserted by all we hold dear
upon earth, knowing that He will never forsake
His children nor leave them comfortless; for
our Savior says, "Ask, and ye shall receive;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you." What
is more easy than this, only to ask and we shall
receive. And we as Saints and daughters of
God know that He has not made this promise
in vain.
	I believe every one of us, if we live as we
should do, can bear testimony to the efficiency
of prayer. How many times has the Lord
heard our prayer in regard to our little ones
when upon a bed of suffering, and restored
them to health according to our prayers and
the desires of our hearts. The Lord says He
knows the desires before asking Him, but He
likes us to ask for what we want, and that in
faith. How many times have the sick been
healed, the deaf made to hear, the lame to
walk, and even the dead raised to life through
the prayer of faith?
	How is it that we are so abundantly blessed
and prospered in these valleys of the moun-
tains, being of so many nationalities. It is
through the prayers and faith of the Saints, for
the Lord loves a prayerful people, and will
protect and bless them. He loves to listen to

[Column 2]

them and to grant their requests. It is not
the length of our prayers that is most accepta-
ble to the Lord, but the earnest desires of a
honest heart. How simple, yet how beautiful,
is the prayer our Savior taught His Disciples,
"Our Father which art in heaven, etc." In
another instance our Savior says: "What things
soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye
receive them and you shall have them; and
when praying forgive if ye have aught against
any, that your Father which is in heaven may
also forgive you your trespasses." He also
says, if we are joyful, to praise Him with sing-
ing, as a song of the heart is a prayer unto the
Lord. We are also told to watch and pray,
lest we enter into temptation.
	What is a more beautiful sight than to see a
little child in pure simplicity kneeling at its
mother's knee offering up a prayer to our
Heavenly Father, and we have read of many
instances where their prayers have been an-
swered, and I believe the Lord hears the
prayer of a little child even quicker than He
does of older people, because they have not
committed any sin, and are therefore pure. But
our Savior tells us to ask and it shall be given;
seek, and ye shall find; and to every one that
knocketh it shall be opened. He also tells us
that the hairs of our head are all numbered,
and that not even a sparrow falls to the ground
without His notice. And in Him we live and
move and have our being.
	Men generally do not believe in these things,
but we as Latter-day Saints know it to be true,
and that there is no safety without prayer.
We read that our Savior Jesus Christ, before
His crucifixion, went into the Garden of Geth-
semane, which is the Mount of Olives, and in
agony He prayed to God that if it were possi-
ble, to let the cup pass; He also took some of
His Disciples with Him and asked them to
watch while He prayed; and while He was
offering His prayer to His Father to sustain
Him in His trying hour, they slumbered and
slept. We find that He did this three times,
and each time He found them asleep. The
third time He said: "Sleep on now and take
your rest, the Son of Man is betrayed into the
hands of sinners."
	If Jesus our Savior had occasion to continu-
ally plead with the Lord for His aid and assist-
ance,how much more necessary it is for us,poor,
weak fallen humanity to pray without ceasing
that the Spirit of God may be our constant
guide and companion through all the joys and
ills of life so that we may be able to stand firm
as the Rock of Ages, holding on to the Rod of
Iron, ever remembering that the Lord is our
friend, that He is a God that is near and not
afar off, that He knows our every thought and
desire, and that He is ever ready to hear and
answer our prayers; and may we ever be able
to say that in life or death we are the Lord's.
	I would then exhort you, my young sisters,
never to neglect or forget your prayers if you
would have the Lord for your friend and
guide, and by obedience to God's laws and
seeking to live nearer unto our Heavenly
Father we may hold communion with holy be-
ings, for there is no blessing the Lord will
withhold from His children if they are only
humble and prayerful.	A. N. B.
	Jan 28, 1885.


London has a Sunday paper, the Age, devot-
ed to gossip, with 50,000  circulation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
		OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.
				Continued.
	“On the 5th Elders Phelps, Gilbert and Mc-
Lellin went to Clay Co. and made affidavit
similar to the foregoing sketch and forwarded
the same to the Governor by express; and the
Governor immediately upon the reception
thereof ordered a court of inquiry to be held
in Clay Co. for the purpose of investigating the
whole affair, and meting out justice to all: but
alas!  corruption, wickedness and power have
left the wretches unwhipped of justice, and in-
nocence mourns in tears unwiped.
	“Thursday, Nov. 7th.  The shores began to
be lined on both sides of the ferry with men,
women and children, goods, wagons, boxes,
chests, provisions, etc., while the ferrymen
were busily employed crossing them over. And
when night again closed upon the Saints the
wilderness had much the appearance of a camp
meeting.  Hundreds of people were seen in
every direction, some in tents, and some in the
open air around their fires while the rain de-
scended in torrents.  Husbands were inquiring
for their wives and women for their husbands,
parents for children and children for parents.
Some had the good fortune to escape with
their family, household goods and some provis-
ions, while others knew not the fate of their
friends and had lost all their goods.  The scene
was indescribable, and would have melted the
heart of any people upon earth, except the
blind oppressor and ignorant bigot.  Next day
the company increased, and they were chiefly
engaged in felling small cottonwood trees and
erecting temporary cabins, so that when night
came on they had the appearance of a village
of wigwams, and the night being clear the occu-
pants began to enjoy some degree of comfort.
	“Lieut. Gov. Boggs presented a curious ex-
ternal appearance, yet he was evidently the
head and front of the mob;  for, as may easily
be seen by what follows, no important move
was made without his sanction.  He certainly
was the secret spring of the 20th and 23rd of
July, and, as will appear in the sequel, by his
authority the mob was moulded into militia to
affect by stratagem what he knew as well as
his hellish host could not he done by legal
force.  As Lieut. Gov. he had only to wink
and the mob went from maltreatment to mur-
der.  The horrid calculations of this second
Nero were often developed in away that could
not be mistaken.
	“Early in the morning of the 5th, say at one
o’clock a.m., he came to Phelps, Gilbert and
Partridge and told them to flee for their lives.
Now, unless he had given the order so to do no
one would have attempted to murder after the
Church had agreed to go away.  His con-
science vacillated on its rocky moorings and
gave the secret alarm to those men.  The
Saints who fled took refuge in the neighboring
counties, mostly in Clay Co., which received
them with some degree of kindness.  Those
who fled to the county of Van Buren were
again driven and compelled to flee, and those
who fled to Lafayette Co. were soon expelled,
or the most of them, and had to move wherever
they could find protection."
	It was in Nov., 1833, that my father moved
his family into Clay Co.	We crossed the Mis-
souri river at a ferry not far from Liberty
landing.  Most of father’s provisions were left
in his cellar, not being able to move it on such
short notice.  And thus two years of my child-
hood were spent in Jackson Co., Missouri.  The
brethren cut down, small trees and laid them
up cob fashion, and when they were five or six
feet high they stretched a tent over the top for
a roof.  And such was my home on the bank
of the Missouri river, in the month of Nov.,
1833. I was then in my tenth year.
	On the 13th of Nov., between three and
four o'clock in the morning the camp was
aroused from their slumbers to witness the
beautiful and grand sight of the falling stars.
The Saints beheld it with hearts of rejoicing.
Being persecuted and cast out from their homes
for the sake of their religion, and knowing it
to be one of the signs of the last days spoken
of by the Prophets, it was calculated to cheer
and comfort their hearts and strengthen their
faith in the Gospel, notwithstanding they were
in deep affliction.  Although I was but a child
at the time, I looked upon the scene with de-
light.  The heavens seemed wrapped in splen-
did fireworks.  The appearance was beautiful
and grand beyond description.
	I think it was several weeks that we were
camped on the bank of the river.  The wea-
ther began to be quite cold—too cold to remain
in tents with any degree of comfort.  The
Saints found homes as best they could, search-
ing out and making habitable all the old shan-
ties and hovels that could be found, endeavor-
ing to keep as near together as possible.  Father
and Elder John Corrill procured an old log
cabin that had been used for a stable and
cleaned it up as best they could  and moved
their families in.  There was one large room,
and a leanto, but that was not of much use, as
the floor was nearly all torn up, and the rats
and rattlesnakes were too thick for comfort.
There was a large fireplace in the one habita-
ble room, and blankets were hung up a few
feet back from the fire and the two families,
fifteen or sixteen in number, were gathered in-
side of those blankets to keep from freezing,
for the weather was extremely cold, so cold
that the ink would freeze in the pen as father
sat writing close to the fire.  Elder Corrill’s
family took one side of the fireplace and we
took the other.  Our beds were in the back
part of the room, which was cold enough for
the polar regions.
	The next summer the Saints procured a
small cabin in a paupau grove for a school and
one of our Mormon girls was installed as teach-
er.  And notwithstanding our deplorable cir-
cumstances I spent many happy hours with the
school children in that beautiful grove at hours
of intermission, swinging on the long wild
grapevine that hung from the tall trees, or
tearing down some of the long and slender
ones to jump-the-rope with.  We built houses
of the branches of the paupau tree, the wood
being very brittle we had no difficulty in
breaking as many as we wanted.  The fruit of
the paupau is about as long as the banana, and
about four or five times as large around, with a
smooth skin.  The inside, when ripe, is a yel-
low, thick, creamy pulp, with- large flat seeds,
and to the taste is very sweet; but oh ! such a
sweet lone taste will generally suffice, nobody
wants to taste it twice.
     Some of the old citizens of Clay Co. sent
their children to our school and of course were
better dressed than the Mormon children,
which caused them to sometimes sneer and
make fun of our shabby clothes, but generally
we got along very well.  The Saints were very
poor, and I sometimes wonder how they pro-
vided for their families the necessaries of life.
My father being Bishop made the times much
harder for him, for he not only had his family
to provide for, but he had the poor to look
after, and provide for their comfort also.
	I sometimes think that Bishops in these
days know but little what the office of Bishop
was in the early days of the Church—in the
days of its poverty and inexperience.  Some-
times the poor would grumble and complain
because there was not more for them.	 To
raise money in those days was almost like
wringing water out of a dry sponge.

[column 3]
A GIRL AUTHOR!
	Ellen Gibson was born in Winchendon, May
8,1821. When five years of age her parents
removed to Ringe.  She possessed an active,
nervous temperament; learned readily and was
at the head of her class.  Her first published
articles appeared in the miscellaneous depart-
ment of the “Boston Cultivator,’' to which she
contributed for several years.  She began school
teaching at the age of fifteen and met with de-
cided success in that vocation.  In 1848 she
was compelled to relinquish teaching on ac-
count of ill health.
	When the War of the Rebellion broke out
she was in the west lecturing; and she became
enthusiastic with the patriotic spirit, and gave
her services in raising soldiers and societies
under the patronage of Gov. Salmon of Wis-
consin.
	During the first N. W. Sanitary Fair held
in Chicago she sold thirteen hundred copies of
a little book she wrote, entitled “The Soldiers'
Gift,”or“The Dangers and Temptationsof Army
Life; giving the proceeds to the fair.' In 1864
she was recommended as chaplain by Governor
Lewis and General Fairfield of Wisconsin, and
assigned to the First Wis. Vol. Artillery, Pres-
dent Lincoln gave her his testimonial: “This
lady would be appointed chaplain of the First
Wis. Heavy Artillery, only she is a woman.
The President has not legally any thing to do
with such a question, but has no objection to
her appointment.	      A. LINCOLN.” Dated Nov.
10,1865.
	She finally served without being mustered
in.  She was known during the war as Ellen
E. I. Hobart.  She now resides in Barre, Mass.
From the New England Historical Genea-
logical (Society) Register. Voi. XXXYII, p.
392,


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	England had only 1,311 hours of bright sun-
shine last year.
	A Berlin doctor has been fined for not keep-
ing himself posted on modern methods of prac-
tice.
	There are 347 women in England who live
by blacksmithing and actually swing heavy
hammers.
	A sociable man is one who, when he has ten
minutes to spare, goes and bothers somebody
that hasn't:
	The snowfall on the Italian Alps is the
heaviest within the memory of man. It is cal-
culated that 300 lives have been lost through
the storm.
	Unprejudiced. Mrs. Newgold (in picture
grllery—This, Aunt Eunice; is a real old mas-
ter. Aunt Eunice—Well, I shouldn’t care if
it was; it’s just as good as some of the new ones.
—Life.
	Does any man wound thee? Not only for-
give, but work into thy thought intelligence of
the kind of pain, that thou mayest never in-
flict it on another spirit.—Margaret Fuller.
	The Magazine of Art for February is superb
in illustration as in letter press.. The frontis-
piece is a fac-simile in colors of Downman's
portrait of Lady Maria Waldergrave, with her
piquant beauty; the views of Artists' Homes
shows a prosperous age in art; some fine por-
traits are given in Editor Henley's paper, "In
Character." The tinted page of poetry and
picture this month is called "In Arcady." "The
Marvelous Madonna," "A Round in France," a
portrait of the eminent artist Elihu Vedder,
with reproductions from his drawings, are
among the brilliant features of the magazine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE HEART DOOR.

There is a little grave, watered well with tears,
	Where I used to sit when winds were still,
Dreaming sad dreams of the might have been,
	Indulging in vain regrets until
The Savior entered, and shut the door,
And that old pain comes to my heart no more.

Did He not say, as He used to walk
	On the vine-clad hills of old Galilee,
The sweetest thing He said or taught
	Was, "Let the children come unto me."
So, when He entered in my heart's door,
Sorrow departed to come no more!

	MARY KNAPP. 
Selected.


TOO LATE.
BY NORA PERRY.
What silence we keep year after year
With those who are near to us and dear!
We live beside each other day by day
And speak of myriad things, but seldom say
The full, sweet word that lies just in our reach
Beneath the commonplace of  common speech.

Then out of sight and out of reach they go—
These close, familiar friends who loved us so;
And, sitting in the shadow they have left,
Alone with loneliness, and sore bereft,
We think, with vain regret, of some fond word
That once we might have said, and they have heard.

For weak and poor the love that we expressed
Now seems beside the vast, sweet unexpressed,
And slight the deeds we did to those undone,
And small the service spent to treasures won,
And undeserved the praise for word and deed
That should have overflowed the simple need.

This is the cruel cross of life, to be
Full visioned only when the ministry
Of death has been fulfilled, and in the place
Of some dear presence is but empty space.
What recollected services can then
Give consolation for the might have been?
INDEPENDENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	My husband wrote: “Wednesday, the 21st,
fine day—this morning, by request of Brother
Kimball, went down to the ferry, six miles
from here; found them just crossing the river.
Little John Smith and myself drove up the
loose cattle and arrived at the camp a little
after dusk.  The family all got here soon
after.”
	“Bishop Whitney,Bros. Woolley and Wright
arrived from St. Louis on the 26th.  The goods
—amounting to about sixty tons—had to be
brought up from St. Joseph by teams.  Brother
Woolley returned to take the charge.  Eight
teams were started the 2nd day of Nov.”
	On the 6th Horace speaks of Wm. Clayton
and George Grant “returning from the village
on the other side of the river, whither they
went on business for the Church.  Bro. Clay-
ton informs me that he never saw such a
swindling operation as that practised on the
Indians down there—they received their pay-
ments in money and were then followed by a gang
of sharpers, who watching their opportunity,get
them drunk and then gamble with them and
cheat them out of all their money.”
	Sunday, the 8th, he mentions the “Omahaws
going through our settlement, their horses
loaded down with tent poles, baggage, etc., on
their way north to the Grand Hunt."
     Saturday, the 7th,he speaks of being engaged
in roofing and sodding the house, into one
room of which we moved that evening. He
says: “We congratulate ourselves consider-
ably upon being able to live in a house again,
as we have got throughly tired of living in
tents.” We continued to use our wagon as a
bedroom till the 30th, when it was wanted to
bring produce from the country.  By this time
quite a number of houses had been put up.
This one contained a number of rooms, built
in a row, between my father’s and Bishop
Whitney’s main buildings.  One room was
used by father for storing provisions, etc.  My
sister-in-law, Sarah, with whom we had tented
so long, occupied a room adjoining ours, though
it was not yet ready for her to move into.  We
lived in ours one month before it was entirely
finished.
	On the 8th of Dec. Horace mentions being
engaged “mudding up his room,” his brother
Orson assisting him.  This, like the majority
of the houses, was covered with sod, and the
chimneys were built of the same.  Each room
had one door and a window with four panes
of glass, but no floor.  I was rather unfortun-
ate, first,in having a chimney that seldom drew
the smoke, particularly when the weather was
cold enough to need a roaring fire in front of
a good sized back-log, and then being prostrat-
ed on my bed from the 23rd of January till
along in March; it gave me the opportunity of
cultivating the qualities of patience and calm-
ness under new vicissitudes, from which there
was no alternative, only to endure them with
as good grace as possible, for many of the
Saints were still without a roof to cover them;
but I shed many unbidden tears during the
smoking period, lasting one month, when find-
ing that our fireplace built of sod was about to
tumble down,they had some brick brought from
the rubbish of the Old Fort of Council Bluffs,
and built a new one.  Thus ended our trouble
from that quarter.  We had been accustomed
to trials from smoke, heat, wind and dust, and
many other things of an unpleasant nature
during camp life, and we took considerable
pleasure in fixing up our little homes.  Our
floors we managed to cover with canvas or
pieces of carpeting, which had outlived the
storms and the wear and tear while journey-
ing from the States. We made curtains serve
as partitions to divide the bedrooms, reposi-
tories, etc., from the kitchen.  Most of our
furniture we had made to order—such as cup-
boards and bedsteads—they being attached to
the house, also tables, chairs and stools, and an
occasional rocking chair, relics of other days,
graced our ingleside.  I was fortunate in hav-
ing one of the latter, which I had brought
with me.  And here I received my “setting
out” in crockery ware, etc, which, though not
very extensive, was deemed quite immense for
those times.  Our marriage taking place just
as we were about starting from the states, the
presenting of these needful articles was post-
poned till a future time, expecting, as we then
did, to cross the Rocky Mountains before build-
ing houses to inhabit. Two or three pieces I
have still, which I keep in memory of the vari-
ous and peculiar scenes through which we have
passed together; as well as the loved ones who
have passed away.
	The larger houses were generally shingled
and had brick chimneys and puncheon floors,
with a six lighted window to each room.
Father’s largest house contained four good
sized rooms on the ground, and two up stairs.
My bro. William and family lived in one room,
my mother, her four little boys, three or four
young men and two young women who had
been adopted, and two of father’s wives occu-
pied the rest; the women assisting in sewing
and housekeeping.  My mother bad been for
some time in very feeble health, and her
youngest child, who was so sick with whooping
cough, when starting from Nauvoo, was taken
care of by Mary Ann Sheflin, one of father’s
wives who lived in the row.  She, having
charge of him most of the way on the journey,
she loved him as though he had been her own
child.
	Horace wrote on the 12t'n, “Bro. Kimball,
Bishop Miller and myself went to Brigham’s
house, which is just finished, in honor of which
we spent the evening in dancing.  Bro. John
Kay sung a few songs and the company dis-
persed, having had a real  good “house warm-
ing.” Bishop Miller, Peter Haw.es and L
Woodworth slept at my house to-night on the
floor.  The latter is quite sick with the fever.
*	*	*	*	The brethren, for
the last two or three days, have been in council
with Bishop Miller, trying to take action on
His case before he goes back to the Punkaw na-
tion.”
	The Bishop had just returned from the coun-
try, where he had been, with others of his
company, for produce.  He left for home with
part of his company on the 15th.  Many of the
brethren had gone down into Missouri to work
or to trade for provisions, which consisted,
mostly, of corn and bacon; the latter, with
corn meal cakes,was our main subsistence dur-
ing the winter.  Vegetables, and many of the
necessaries of life were not obtainable.  Indian
meal cake and puddings we considered very
nice when used as rarities, as we were accus-
tomed to doing in the east, but when we had
little or no change, they became somewhat
nauseous, particularly to the sick and delicate.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In honor of Prest. E. G. MacDonald on her
54th birthday, her numerous friends inaugura-
ted a party, which proved a perfect success in
every respect, the lady not having the least
idea of the surprise awaiting her. When she
saw her domicile invaded by such a number,
loaded down with good things,she accepted the
situation and welcomed them with a hearty
good will, which made everybody feel at home.
After some pleasant conversation and a birth-
day address by one of the ladies of the party,
supper was served, and the tables fairly groaned
beneath the good things that were loaded upon
them; 47 persons partook of supper, and, as it
was remarked, it seemed like the "widow's
cruse" of oil, there was still plenty when all
was served.
	The evening passed pleasantly away; Bro.
Chas. Robison made a brief speech, expressing
a wish that the dark clouds that were now hov-
ering over her and us might soon vanish away
before the effulgent rays of the coming day,
and wished her "many happy returns of the
day," each one happier than the last. Sister
E. G. MacDonald expressed her gratitude to
the brethren and sisters for the kindly feelings
that had prompted their friendly greeting.
	There was but one thing to mar the pleasure,
of the evening, and that was the absence of
her husband, who was absent on a trip through 
Southern Arizona, laboring for the interest of
the mission, for which he is laboring incessant-
ly.
	Our Relief Society is in good working or-
der, as are also the different associations. Our
Society Hall is so far completed that social
parties and entertainments are being held in it.
Although dark clouds seem to be gathering,
and the prospects are that we shall have our
share of persecution; still, there is a deep abid-
ing faith with the people that the Lord lives
and rules and will overrule every thing for the
best if we obey His laws in every respect.
	God bless you and all connected with the
Exponent, which is carrying gratification and
pleasure into so many households, is the con-
stant prayer of your friend and sister in the
Gospel,	S. A. P.
	Mesa City, Arizona.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, S2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs. Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m.to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15, 1885.


[Column 1]

RELIGIO-P0LITICAL CRUSADE.

	The crusade against the people of Utah, the
original settlers, the actual pioneers of this new
country, this sometime barren desert, has bagun
in dead earnest, judging from the events trans-
piring at the present time, and the bitterness
and utter lack of honor that is apparent on the
part of those unscrupulous men, who have un-
dertaken with zeal, worthy a better cause, to
manipulate the present religious political cam-
paign.
	These officers of the law and their emissaries
would fain make people believe they are anxious
to promote a better condition of society, and
make the country more popular; in fact would
elevate all who would be guided by them.
Would they not then take away the agency of
the individual? If you want to believe in Mor-
monism it is heresy in the eyes of these official
authorities; you have no right to believe in cer-
tain things, society condemns them,and we, the
people of the United States, will not submit to
it. Then men and women are not to have the
right of conscience? This is a free country in-
deed! The people of the United States are out-
raged by certain forms of marriage! Are not
the people of Utah the people of the United
States, a part of the body politic? One would
think not to hear these officials talk! Is not
every citizen of the United States entitled to
privileges of freedom and religious liberty, and
is any man or woman to be condemned, without
due process of law, to any punishment whatso-
ever?
	The laws of the United States so read, and we
have ever been so taught and we so understand
it, but the laws are changed when Mormons are
accused; anything is fair on the side of men who
administer the law, any testimony may be
taken as evidence, or no testimony at all accord-
ing to the circumstances, and it requires no
proof whatever to deprive a man or woman of
the right of franchise. Men and women are
punished without any evidence being brought of
the alleged crime, test oaths are applied to the
people in regard to their religion, actual religi-
ous rites and ceremonies, and if they will not
subscribe to them they are powerless as to any
claim upon their country. They are outcasts in
its broadest sense. They have no rights or
claims that the country will acknowledge, and
men and women, who are by every human right,
sacred or divine, entitled to the blessings be-
queathed, by that glorious instrument of free-
dom, the Constitution, are being deprived, little
by little, of every vestige of liberty, religious or
political.
	Every American citizen, whether native born
or naturalized, points with pride and confidence
to the Constitution, knowing its grand and sub-
lime principles and the religious liberty it guaran-
tees as a safeguard and protection. But it is

[Column 2]

being torn to shreds, figuratively speaking, by
members of Congress who pass unconstitutional
laws, and the executive and judiciary officials
who administer them,while they boast so vigor-
ously at the same time about having the laws
obeyed, and are such sticklers for morality that
their pure minds are exercised because more
wives than one live in the marriage relation
with one husband, and are protected, cared for
and supported, their children acknowledged, and
withal have marital rights and privileges. Is
the way of the world so much higher morally
that they can very well afford to boast of their
refined civilization.
	To be sure it is so widely different from the
order of plural marriage that comparisons are
odious, and should never at any time be allowed;
but in view of these very punctilious people
feeling outraged by the practice of plural mar-
riage away off in the heart of the American
derert, let us pause and consider the misery and
degradation in the City of Washington alone,
where these one-sided laws are enacted. We
give the testimony of a lady who is a resident of
that City, and has been for many years, who
moves in the best society, who was an intimate
friend of President Garfield, and in fact knows
Washington by heart, so to speak. Hear what
she says:
	"What is the danger that threatens our fire-
sides to-day? An invasion from Spain, or France
or England? An insult to our flag upon the
high seas? Who that has a son or a daughter
does not know that the moral pestilence that
walks abroad at noonday and poisons the air of
night is a more dangerous foe to his household
than hosts of armed men?
	"Gentlemen of the House of Congress have
asked me if I did not know that gathering in
these girls from the streets, even though we se-
cure their reformation, would only make room
for more; that this evil is a natural and inevit-
able necessity. May I ask in whose interest
this argument is used? Is it for our own sons
that this fearful supply must and will be de-
manded? Or is it for the sons of our neighbors?
Surely it is no the intention of the lawmakers,
by tacit consent, to deliberately provide for the
ruin and degradation of their own families. It
is folly to suppose that young and ignorant girls
and children can be bought and sold upon our
streets for the worst purposes, and your own
households only can be safe and high and pure.
*	*	*	It is not purely a local evil
for which the citizens only are responsible. In
the summer and autumn,when permanent resi-
dents only are here, this class of girls find
themselves on the verge of starvation, and large
numbers leave the city. But when Congress
assembles, the immense foreign and floating
population, that ever gathers around the capital
of a great nation, creates a demand for them,
and the keepers of the houses send out their
emissaries for new girls. The vagrant girls of
Washington are peculiarly national and not lo-
cal vagrants. Many of them are brought here
young and ignorant, from distant homes by em-
ployees of the Government. Large numbers
come in search of employment, and find, as the
twenty thousand war widows in New York
found, that there is but one employment for
women that men are willing to pay for."
	This is but a sentence or two from the strong
and able argument of this eminent lady in be-
half of a "Girl's Refore School." To read the
argument in full is enough to make one's blood
run cold, and she gives facts,for as she very apt-
ly says, "One fact is worth volumes of argu-
ment."
	But these people do not see the beam that is
in their own eye, but observe with alarm the
little mote they fancy they can see afar off in
Utah. And is it not true that in this very city,

[Column 3]

where men are employed to pry into domestic
affairs, to obtrude themselves into the sacred
home circle, that they are men of vile habits,
steeped in tobacco and whisky, men whom every
virtuous woman despises, and whom she would
shun as she would a deadly serpent? Yet these
men, under pretence of finding whether the
Edmunds law is being broken, obtrude them-
selves into the sacred precincts of homes where
the commandments of God are kept, where
prayers are offered, and where peace and happi-
ness abide; what do they care for morality, or
purity, or chastity; they are after money; they
are the tools employed to condemn innocent
men and women, and if possible throw them
into prison, break up happy homes and make
them desolate, ruin the lives and break the
hearts of women who are as far above these exe-
cutors of the Edmunds law as the heavens are
above the earth.
	A pertinent question to ask at the present
time would be, who supports the palaces of sin
in our midst? Who patronizes the saloons? If
these questions were answered truthfully it
would be, the men who have come here to civil-
ize and regenerate the "Mormons," but who are
many of them "like ravenous wolves seeking
whom they may devour." The real object is
money and political influence, and any means
will be resorted to that can be made available to
make capital out of the "Mormon" question.
	The persecution raging now against this peo-
ple can be styled nothing less than a crusade
against religion for political purposes. What will
be gained by it to further the ends of office seek-
ers towards place, power, or aggrandizement can
better be told in the future, but it will most like-
ly prove more disastrous to them in the end
than to the people whom they now oppress; it
was so in Mo., it was so in Nauvoo, and in our
opinion it will prove the same in this instance.
"Mormonism" will flourish, the people will
prosper, and those who fight against it will fall
into the pit they have dug for this people, and
be caught in the snares they have taken so much
pains to set for those who are trying to keep the
commandments of God.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The pen sketch of Patty Session will be
continued in our next issue.
	MINUTES of Ladies' Semi-monthly, meeting,
held in this city, Feb. 7th, left over for lack of
space, will also appear in our next number.
	THE Secretaries of the several organizations in
this Stake of Zion will please remember that re-
ports must be handed in early in order that the
Stake secretaries of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. may have ample time to prepare them for
the Stake Conference of this Stake of Zion,
which will be held previous to the sister's Con-
ference. The 5th of March is the latest date
given for them.
	The comic opera of Patience will be presented
in the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday evening,
Feb. 23rd. The performers are all selected
from home talent, and, there is every prospect
that the performance will be excellent of its
kind. Prof. Krouse, a thoroughly educated
musician, who is getting up the affair, is spar-
ing no pains to make the event a perfect success.
The names of those who are to take part in the
opera are a pretty good guarantee of an enjoyable
musical treat and entertainment.
“Cherry Lips" is the title of a piece of music,
a grand valse, composed by Prof. A. Andle and
published by D[-]ynes & Coalter of this city, who
are really "very enterprising young men in a
musical direction. It Is one of a series of musi-
cal sketches, which will be suitable for the
guitar, banjo, piano, organ, violin, mandolin


z[-]ther and harp.		Prof. Andre has a happy facul-
ty of adaptation, as well as good taste in the com-
position of his pieces for his scholars, and as
they are not diffi ult thay will no doubt have a
wide circulation in the home market.
	THE Stake Secretaries in the various Stakes of
Zion will please govern themselves according to
the instructions previously given, that all re.
ports for the Central Board may be in before the
5th of March. The Relief Society, the Young
Ladies' Associations and the Primary are all
requested to send their reports to the secretary
of Central Board. Relief Society, Sarah M.
Kimball; Box 629, S. L. City. Y. L. M I. A ,
Louie M. Wells, Box 555. S. L. City. Primary
Associations, Alice A. Jenkins, S	   L. City.
Please be prompt in sending, that a complete
and correct report may be made for the April
Conference.
	The conflicting reports and rumors in regard
to the condition, of the English troops in Egypt
render it impossible to decide whether or not
Gen. Gordon has been killed, or indeed make It
somewhat doubtful whether Khartoum has real-
ly fallen. However, it is true that the brave
and gallant Earle, and also Leiut. Col. Eyre and
Col. Coventry have been killed. The telegrams
of Feb,12th, stale that the English success was
complete. More troops are to be sent to Egypt
and the struggle will continue. A council of
war was held at the War Office at noon on
Thursday, Feb. 12th. The Duke of Cambridge
will review the troops before they leave for
Egypt. The outlook is not cheery for the
English when their best officers and many of
their soldiers must be sacrificed; but the gov-
ernment seems quite willing to risk them, and
such are the fortunes of war.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

O, JUSTICE! WHITHER HAST THOU
FLED?

	Let our eye look upon Zion. Let her be defiled.
	But they knew not the thoughts of the Lord.—Micah
IV, 11,12.
	Let us enter the private sanctuary of domes-
tic life, where, to the honor of this great re-
public, the divinity of the marriage tie is ac-
knowledged and held sacred; and where purity,
the crowning glory of the social circle, is bravely
and successfully protected.
	Let us there, with wanton cruelty, defy the
Constitution of our country, and by trampling
on the rights of conscience, sever the holy ties
of wedlock—separate husband and wife—pa-
rents and children, and ignore the finest affec-
tions of the human heart.
	Yes; let us cause thousands of honorable, lov-
ing wives to be stigmatized as prostitutes, and
their offspring, as bastards.
	Let us cause multitudes of innocent children,
that are now being tenderly cherished and care-
fully educated, to be branded with infamy, and
deprived of heirship.
	Let us desecrate their homes, and exterminate
the only people of whom this nation can truly
boast as protectors of purity and innocence; lest
their virtuous and honorable example shall, in
the present reign of corruption, rise up before us
as a burning reproof.
	Let us immure in loathsome prisons those
brave men, who, for the sake of worshiping God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, left their homes and the graves of their
noble ancestors, and sought refuge in the sterile
American Desert; where, nerved by the power
of faith in the arm of the Great Jehovah, for a
while they battled with the elements for life,
and at length, with indomitable energy, over-
came the barrenness of the soil, and made the
"Deseret blossom as the rose."
	Those are the men, whe, with their stalwart

[Column 2]

sons, the noble offspring of plural, celestial
marriage, with stern, unyielding persevarance,
establishe a connecting link between the com-
mercial cities of the East, and the rich mining
districts of the West, and made practicable for
the nation, the continental transit of the "iron
horse."
	Let us erace from the book of remembrance
the countless deeds of hospitality and generosi-
ty bestowed by those early settlers of the wilder-
ness, on our emigrants,when their supplies were
exhausted, as they were wending their way
through to California.
	Let us plant the seeds of devastation in a
thriving, peaceful, honest, industrious commun-
ity—a Territory brought into existence and
made to flourish, without aid, protection, or en-
couragement from the government under which
it exists.
	Yes. let us abregate the rights of its founders,
insomuch that henceforth it shall be controlled
by gamblers and speculators—those who have
no interest in common with the people.
	Instead of the Territory of Utah as it had be-
come—a theme of boast, as a nucleus of peace,
good order and happiness; let us, through our
crushing policy, exhibit it to the nations abroad
as a spectacle of confusion, desolation and 
woe.
	Let us tear away that mighty shield of the
rights of concience, and protector of the rights
of citizenship, our glorious Constitution—let us
place our veto on the commands of the Al-
mighty, and presume to me sure arms with the
Great Ruler of the Universe.
	Thus saith the President, and thus saith the
Congress of the United States of America, by
passing unconstitutional bills, and in appointing
and forcing upon Utah a Commission composed
of men with undeveloped consciences, who as-
sume preogatives, powers,and authority beyond
their investment: who having inagurated an
obnoxious compulsory test oath to screen the
lecherous and punish the pure, complacently
smile when the inalienable rights of local citi-
zens are trampled upon, and the judicial sanc-
tum, which should be an emporium of justice
and equity, is transformed into a nest of conspira-
tors—an equisitorial caldron.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 7, 1885.


[Column 1]
﻿		A VIEW- FEBRUARY 18S5.
	It is interesting to note the different phases
presented at different periods of the world’s
history by those powers which have ever been
opposed to the truth. Alike in those dispensa-
tions in which Moses and Jesus were to figure
prominently, the Evil Powers seem to take into
consideration beforehand the necessity of doing
something to prevent the rise of such mighty
one, in the interest of that cause against which
they fought.
	They therefore “put it into the hearts of
wicked men" to have the lives of infants taken
which should be born in the times and places in
which they supposed those mighty ones were to
come forth. But notwithstanding all the great
crimes committed in the shedding of innocent
blood at those times the plans of the Almighty
were not frustrated. The very children whose
lives were sought being safely guarded and kept
alive. The Evil Powers were foiled and the
powers of light were triumphant.
	In this, “The dispensation of the Fulness of
Times,” the evil powers seem to take a some-
what different stand, though evidently working
with the same object in view as in former times.
It appears now that their business is to ‘put it
into the hearts of wicked men” to frame and
seek to enforce laws to the effect that children

[Column 2]
shall not be born. The world does not want
them, and the few people who do want them
must not have them if their enemies can pre-
vent it.
	This latter scheme of the Evil Powers is with-
out doubt concocted in consequence of a knowl-
edge which they must have obtained of the fact
that within a limited space of time, all the re-
maining spirits which belong to this earth, and
are to receive earthly tabernacles, wi1 be born
of the flesh. That among them are many mas-
ter spirits, which have been reserved for the
great work of the latterdays. And that as soon
as these spirits have received their fleshly taber-
nacles, and are brought forth, “The end of the
world, which is the destruction of the wicked,"
will c[-]me.
	Is it any wonder that the Evil Powers are
striving so madly and so vigorously at this time
to do something to prevent the birth of pure
spirits in pure bodie? What else should they
be striving for, knowing, as they do, that “their
time is short?” Only to be faithful and diligent
remains for those who are looking forward to the
time when the evil powers will be bound, and

		JESUS SHALL REIGN.
Oh! the vain glory and wild speculation
	Which we now witness on every hand!
Oh! the dread doom of this proud generation!
	Why will they perish! Why not understand?
		Keep in the narrow path,
		And thus escape the wrath
Which is now sweeping the nations amain;
		Stand with the meek and pure,
		 They only can endure,		"
		And righteous crowns secure;
			Jesus shall reign!

Th’ trumpets are sounding, th’ seal a being broken;
	The plagues are abroad of destruction and dearth;
The wicked repent not; they heed not the token,
	And soon they’ll be swept from the face of the earth.
		Cease not, ye saints, to call,
		Save, or we perish all!
Help us, our Father, Thy laws to maintain;
		Oh! God of truth and light,
		Strengthen us by Thy might,
		Thine is the power, the right;
			Jesus shall reign!

Soon will the morn of the first resurrection
	Gladden the valleys and brighten the waves;
Parents and children, the friends and connections,
	Sweetly embrace as they rise from their graves.
		Father, our hearts prepare,
		In the great bliss to share,
More than requiting all sorrow and pain;
		Joyous the anthem then,
		Angels and saints again
		Echo the glad amen,
			Jesus shall reign!			LULA.
	S. L. City.


A DELIGHTFUL PARTY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Thursday last Sister Julia Howe gave a
most enjoyable entertainment to the widows of
the 17th Ward.  Her parlors were thrown open
for their reception, and two long tables were set
in the dining-room, on which were placed the
substantials of the season, with many delicacies
abundantly garnishing the feast. Dinner was
served at four o'clock and the Sisters Reese,
Alder, Keetie Kimball and Miss Zina Hyde,
were the ministering spirits attendant upon the
tables. They greatly assisted, too, in the order
and satisfaction that every one preserved and
felt.
	Sister Hyde presided by appointment over the
assembly, and by her ever kind, affectionate, and
unassuming manners made all feel at home.
	After dinner, all adjourned to the large and
beautiful drawing room, where, after a time, the
guests were called upon to express their senti-
ments upon such subjects as they chose to


speak upon. Many arose and spoke in an inter-
esting and edifying manner of their experience
in life, of their happy associations and enjoy-
ments in social gatherings, of journeying across
the plains, etc. Songs and recitations were also
engaged in.
	All expressed their appreciation of Sister
Howe's kindness and benevolence in providing
search an entertainment for them, and called
down blessings upon her.
	At ten o'clock all returned to their homes re-
freshed and strengthened by "the communion
of Saints"
	Our Sister, in speaking, said President Taylor
o served at the last Conference that from that
time the widows should be blessed, and she be-
lieved that in this meeting that prophecy was
being realized.
				ONE OF THE WIDOWS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLEASANT TIME.
	On Monday, January 26th ult., a very enjoy-
able time was spent at the residence of Sister
Ware’s. Many sisters of the 19th and other
wards met together to celebrate her 79th birth-
day, it having been the custom to do so on that
occasion for the past ten years. The time spent
there together was profitable and instructive.
	The afternoon was spent in singing, prayer
and speaking of the goodness of God to His peo-
ple in days that are past and up to the present
time, when all bore a faithful testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. It was a time long to be
remembered.
	After the meeting was over all sat down to a
bountiful repast. The picnic was brought by
the sisters.
	I will just say I wrote a poem, the words of
which past through my mind the previous
evening, and I penned them down as they came
to me, and read them at the party.
						MARY CLARK.


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	The Ladies Semi-monthly meeting was held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly rooms,
Satuaday, January 27, Mrs. M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Singing, "Lord, Thou wilt hear me when
I pray." Prayer by Counselor Phebe Woodruff.
Singing, "Glory to Thee, my God." Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Minutes
of Y. L. Associations from 20th 6th and 17th
wards, also minutes of P. A. from the 5th, 4th,
15th, 11th, 17th and 10th wards were read by
the reep[-]ctive secretaries.
	Prest. Horne then addressed the sisters.
Spoke of tha cultivation of our young people,
and thought we should all seek to learn those
things that would be for our best good and ad-
vancement. Said, we are living in a time that
requires us to be wise and humble, and when
we must live near to God and do His holy will,
if we would expect His blessings. The time
has come that our Prophet Joseph Smith spoke
of, when all the world is turned against us. Let
us try to be faithful and merit the Lord's pro-
tecting care, for we know not what may come
to us or ours. Let us also remember our breth-
ren who are being so tried, and offer up our
prayers in their behalf.
	Coun. Woodruff exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in the performance of every duty rest-
ing upon them. Wished those present to im-
prove the time in bearing testimony.
	Several of the sisters bore excellent testi-
monies.
	Sister Mc. Master spoke in the gift of tongues,
and Sister Lawson gave the interpretation.
Prest. Horne made a few closing remarks, in
which she gave a brief account of the trials the


Saints had to pass through in Missouri, and said
the Lord protected us then, and if we are faith-
ful He will protect us now.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by Sister E. S. Tay-
lor.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Washington, 25.—Rev. Dr. Patten, Presi-
dent of Howard University, preached a sermon
in the Congregational Church of this city to-
day, on woman and skepticism, in the course
of which he spoke of the woman’s suffrage
convention held here recently, and expressed
the opinion that when women are given too
much liberty, they branch off into skepticism
and immorality. He said, among other things,
that the lives of such women as George Elliot,
Madame Roland and Harriet Martineau exem-
plified the truth of this assertion, and he re-
ferred to Victoria Woodhull as a representative
of the woman suffrage movement. Among his
audience were Miss Susan B. Anthony and
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and at the con-
clusion of the services they walked to the plat-
form and upbraided Dr. Patten for his utter-
ances. Miss Anthony said to him that if his
mother were living she would take him across
her knee and spank him, but Mrs Stanton in- 
terrupted her and said: "On the contrary, let
me congratulate Dr. patten. I've been trying
for years to make women understand the worst
enemies they have are in the pulpit. Now he
has illustrated it beyond question." Without
giving Dr. Patten time to reply the women has
tily left the church.
	To-night the Rev. Olpmpia Brown replied 
to Dr. Patten from the pulpit of the Univer-
salist Church.


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The evening session  of Tuesday brought out
a larger attendance and there were several
members of Congress present. Matilda J.
Gage delivered an address on the political par-
ties of the country, showing they had been suc-
cessful or had failed according to their strict
adherence to or desertion of principle.
	Mrs. Stanton followed,speaking on "The
Disabilities and Limitations of the sex." She
glorified motherhood as the divinest function;
referred to Horace Greeley's limitation of
woman's usefulness, in which he said she could
neither navigate a ship across the sea, nor sing
bass in a choir, by stating that woman had
done both. She laid at the doctrine of celi-
bacy endless evils and ills, and asserted that
the religious devotees of the moral ages were
responsible for the darkness of that age. She
criticised St. Paul's strictures on marriage,and
condemned the practice and principle of celi-
bacy in pungent and unmeasured terms.
	Mrs. Laura de Force Gordon was the last
speaker. She gave a history of the work in
California together with an interesting account
of the contest over the admission of women to
practice at the bar. Women are now admitted
to all callings and professions in California, sex
being declared no disqualification by the Con-
stitution, by a clause which Mrs. Gordon had
herself drafted.
		SECOND DAY.
	The meeting was called to order by Miss An-
thony. She told her hearers not to be discour-
aged. There were but four bills in the Senate
ahead of the suffrage bill and that already the
friends of the measure were preparing their
speeches on it. She said if women were half
as sagacious as men they would note down
points in behalf of the bill and send them to
one of the senators favoring the measure, that
he might incorporate them in his speech.
	Dispatches were read from Helen M. Gou
gar and Mrs. Lockwood, and letters from Clara
Barton, Robert Purvis and Rachel Foster.
	Mrs. Perkins of Ohio then read a most able
and forcible address, quaint, touching and tell-
ing, showing full womanly and matronly in-
stincts, an unfaltering trust in the Creator, an
abhorence of intemperance and a resolute and
immovable conviction that the cause of woman
was just and should be secured.  “There had
been too many Jane Carlyles in the past,sitting
up all night to make bread  for a grumbling
husband. Victor Hugo had said the 19th cen-
tury belonged to women, and he, rather
than the bearish English philospher, should
be taken as the true representative of his
age."
	Caroline Gilkey Rogers then read a well-
prepared and interesting paper on the “Aris-
tocracy of Sex." In the course of her address
she gave a description of a speech made by
Old Sojourner Truth in a suffrage convention
years ago, by which the entire current of
thought and feeling was changed. "If de fust
woman that God eber made was strong ’nuff to
turn the worl" upside down," said the tall and
powerful ex-slave, "den dese heah women on
de platform oughter be able to set her right
agin."
	Miss Burr read an allegorical essay showing
the condition of a world where the distinction
of sex in the walks of life had been oblitera-
ted and that this world was surpassingly and 
painfully inferior.
		RESOLUTIONS.
	"Whereas a bill for an amendment to the fed-
eral constitution prohibiting the states from
disfranchising citizens on account of sex is now,
with reports for and against its passage, before
the Congress of the United States; therefore,
	Resolved, That we request our representa-
tives in congress to pass this bill, and submit it
to the legislatures of the several states.
	Whereas it is conceded to be the duty of
overnments to protect the persons and proper-
ty of their citizens against all aggressions by
land and sea; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is clearly the duty of the
United States, on this principle, to protect the
women of the several states, when robbed by
tyrannical custom or unjustlegislation of their
fundamental rights by extending to them the
rights of suffrage.
	Resolved,  That in the death of the Hon.
Henry Fawcett, Wendall Phillips, Senator An-
thony, Madam Mathilde Annekk, Frances D.
Gage, Sarah Pugh, Elizabeth T. Schenck,
Katherine Newell Doggett, Laura Giddings
Julian, Judge Folger, Bishop Simpson, and
William Heney Channing, the year 1884 has
been one of irreparable losses to our move-
ment, and as an association we would express
to their families and friends in England and
America our deep sympathy in their affliction
and our gratitude for their life long services for
the elevation of women.
	Resolved, That we note with great satisfac-
tion the growth of sentiment favorable to
woman suffrage in the W. C. T. U., and that
we thank them heartily for their recent memo-
rial to congress in behalf of the sixteenth
amendment.
	Whereas the dogmas incorporated in relig-
ious creeds derived from Judaism, teaching
that woman was an afterthought in creation,
her sex a misfortune, marriage a condition of
subordination, and maternity a curse, are con-


[Column 1]

trary to the law of God as revealed in nature
and the precepts of Christ; and
	Whereas these dogmas are an insidious poi-
son sapping the vitality of our civilization,
blighting woman, and laying their palsying
hand upon humanity; therefore,
	Resolved, That we denounce these dogmas
wherever they are enunciated, and we will
withdraw our personal support from any or-
ganization or person so holding and teaching,
and
	Resolved, That we call upon the Christian
ministry, as leaders of thought, to teach and
enforce the fundamental idea of creation, that
man was made in the image of God, male and
female, and, given equal dominion over the
earth, but none over each other. And fur-
ther, we invite their co-operation securing
the recognition of the cardinal point of our
creed that in true religion there is neither
male nor female, neither bond nor free, but all
are one."
	These resolutions, introduced the first day,
were read and adopted, save the last one, which
created an unusual sensation. Men and women
joined in the debate and the discussion took a
partly religious turn and threatened to result
disastrously. It was discussed pro and con
vigorously and was beginning to call forth
criminating attack upon special religious or-
ders, when Mrs. Stanton arose and spoke ear-
nestly, and conclusively in its behalf, and then
said further consideration would be postponed
till the morning following when a special ses-
sion would be held to consider it. The after-
noon meeting then adjourned.
	The evening session was devoted to ad-
dresses. Miss Hardman of Philadephia spoke
on the subject, "As the Rulers, so the People,"
stating that the only way to overcome mob
rule was to substitute virtue for vice, to give
the more moral half of the community—the
women—representation, and the result would
be attained. Women for the same work shoud
receive the same compensation, and yet the
only place where men did not cheat the women
was where women had the right to vote.
	Rev. Olympia Brown,for 20 years a preacher
in the Universalist Church, spoke to the text,
"All are created free and equal." The aris-
tocracy in power, she said, was that of the
moustache, whose insignia was the spittoon,
whose home was the smoking car, and whose
outward sign was the curling tobacco smoke,
and which was dependent upon an accident of
the body. 
	The concluding speaker of the evening was
Lillie-Devereux Blake. Her subject was the
"True Republic." She said the term "repub-
lic." was not fulfilled in this country. A young
woman here who desired to earn her living had
offered to her the alternative of starvation or
degradation. She hoped the Bartholdi statue
would never be erected until women had the
right to vote. 
	It was decided not to hold a morning session
to discuss the resolutions which created such a
tumult during the afternoon.

THIRD DAY.
	A fair sized audience assembled on the after-
noon of the third day. Miss Anthony again
called the meeting to order, calling attention
to the necessity of liberal contributions to ena-
ble the work successfully to be carried on, and
she was followed by a male member named E.
M. Davis, who made himself conspicuous all
through the convention for very bad taste. He
made a very painful attempt to coax and argue
those present into helping "us" in "our" work.
	Dr. Harriet B. Chapin, in a wavering voice,
reported the condition of the suffrage work at
Albany, New York.
	Mrs. Shattuck of Boston, a very womanly 
appearing and acting lady, reported the condi-
tion of the woman's movement in Massachu-

[Column 2]

setts. She read some very well compiled and
suggestive statistics, showing the virtue of
women in her state and the portion her sex
plays in the industrial and professional pursuits
of that State. Mrs. Shattuck is a very pleas-
ing, broad and reflective speaker, and must
prove a power in the cause because of her ap-
parent earnestness and conservativeness.
	Anna L. Diggs read a well-written, telling
and humorous account of the suffrage work in
Kansas. She was very attentively listened to.
	One of the most eloquent and powerful ap-
peals and addresses made was that of Mrs.
Clara B. Colby, Editor of the Woman's Tri-
bune, of Nebraska. She appealed to men to
make the cause of woman's emancipation their
own, as they had the cause of free government
in the early history of the nation, as they had
for the abolition of slavery. She told the early
Hebraic legend of creation: "Lillith was the
goddess and Adam the God; that they reigned
over all equally till Adam wished all control,
and Lillith, rather than npt enjoy peace, left
the garden. Then an Eve, subordinate and a
helpmeet only was created," and it was a fact
worthy of note that until this inferior and sub-
ordinate woman was made, no evil came into
the world. She wished Lillith to return, to
reign equal, and thus bring back the era when
sin should be unknown.
	Mrs. D. Stockman of Chicago made a report
for Illinois, while Rev. Olympia Brown report-
ed the movement in Wisconsin so active that
they had held two annual meetings within the
year in that State.
	The afternoon session closed by Mrs. Stan-
ton stating that it had been decided to lay the
last resolution over for one year, as the discus-
sion seemed to have given rise to some feeling;
but she wished women to read the Scriptu es
and take notes, so as to determine intelligently
whether there was not a grave discrepancy be-
tween the position assigned them by the minis-
ters and creeds of orthodox churches, and that
contemplated in the first two chapters of Gene-
sis and in the Gospel of Christ.
	In the evenng Miss Anthony made an ad-
dress, hitting hard those who were opposing
the work in Congress, while Mrs. Stanton
stated that in the forthcoming volume of the
"History of Woman Suffrage" she would paint
these men so black that their own sons and
daughters would be ashamed of them. Miss
Anthony gave some interesting points in her
early efforts in behalf of the cause. She would
not tell just now how many years ago that was
—but if she lived to be as old as Methusalem,
"whose oldest daughter I am said to be, I will
still advocate woman suffrage."
	Mrs. Laura deForce Gordon then delivered
an address on "Is our Civilization Civilized?"
Ar uing like a lawyer, as she is, decidedly in
the negative. The loss of courtesy by men
would be more than compensated by the fact
that she, would then be the equal of man. She
said she would rather suffer any amount of in-
dignity than that little jackanapes should be
able to insult her with the remark, "you can't
vote."
	Mrs. Stanton read a short closing address. It
was very important that the government should
be kept secular, and equally so that woman
should know the danger of ecclesiastical con-
trol, as they were so soon going to vote. She
wanted women to remember that under the
old Roman law women had far more liberty
than since the Canon law put its withering
hands upon their civil rights. Law and eccle-
siastical students read the degrading statements
and then preached or practiced on the inspir-
ation of the directions given to the Corinthians
or Phillipians. She demanded an exporgated
edition of Blackstone and the Canon laws, as
well as of the Bible. All the revisions of men
had been failures, and she wanted the next to 
be made by women.

[Column 3]

	The convention was then declared ad-
journed.

NOTES.
	During the debate on Wednesday on the
anti-church doctrine resolution, Mrs. Stanton
in her remarks tending to show that organized
religion had ever tried to keep woman in abase-
ment, asked what it was that bound the Hin-
doo woman on the funereal pyre of her dead
husband? "Religion! Religion it is that keeps
the harems of Turkey full; and what but re-
ligion could ever induce the Mormon women
to endure that abominable and destroying prac-
tice of polygamy?"
	The character of ladies who participated and
who were present was intellectual, at least in
appearance, if not in fact. There were many
young women present. There were not a
great number of men, but the number of males
increased each day. Mrs. John T. Caine and
Mrs. F. S. Richards of Utah were interested
spectators and listeners to a large part of the
proceedings.
	Several of the ladies who are attending the
convention have never attended the Washing-
ton convention before. Mrs. Gordon of Cali-
fornia makes her appearance here now for the
first time. Br. Chapin of Albany, Mrs. Fray
of Ohio, Miss Burr of Hartford, Mrs. Colby of
Nebraska and Mrs. Ellis of New York are also
here for the first time. Mrs. Halleck and Mrs.
Hull are Quakers, and there were several
other ladies from Maryland belonging to the
Society of Friends present to-day. Miss An-
thony is of Quaker ancestry; Mrs. Colby of
Nebraska is editor of a paper; Miss. Laura
White of Kentucky is sister of Representative
White of that state. She is a student of arch-
itecture, and proposes to make architecture her
profession. Mrs. Post of Wyoming is the wife
of Delegate Post. She has been the foreman
of a jury and served on a jury when she was
the only woman present.

EXECUTIVE SESSION.
	The first executive session of officers and
members was held in the red parlors of the
Riggs house on Tuesday morning, Miss An-
thony presiding. The unfinished business of
last year was considered and committees ap-
pointed for the work of the convention. Thir-
teen states were represented, one territory, and
the District of Columbia. The following are
the committees appointed:

COMMITTEES.
	Finance—Jane H. Spofford, Eliza T. Ward,
and Ruth C. Denison, District of Columbia;
Ellen S. Fray, Ohio; Mrs. Halleck, New York.
	Membership—Clara B. Colby, Nebraska;
Miss Laura White, Kentucky; Dr. Harriet B.
Chapin and Caroline G. Rogers, New York;
Caroline A. Sherman and Mrs. S. J. Messer,
District of Columbia; Mrs. A. M. Best, Mary-
land.
	Credentials—Mrs. L. D. Blake and Sarah
W. Ellis, New York; Harriet B. Shatluck,
Massachusetts; Frances Ellen Burr, Connecti-
cut; Mary E. McPherson, Iowa.
	Resolutions—Elizabeth C. Stanton and Ma-
tilda J. Gage, New York; Laura De Force
Gordon, California; Clara B. Colby, Nebraska;
Sarah M. Perkins, Ohio; Mrs. Diggs, Kansas.
	Press—Ellen Burr, Connecticut; Ruth C.
Dennison and Ellen H. Sheldon, District of
Columbia.
	Nominations—Susan B. Anthony aud Lillie
D. Blake, New York; Clara B. Colby, Nebras-
ka; Harriet R. Shattuck, Massachusetts; Matil-
da Hindman, Pennsylvania.

THE DELEGATES PRESENT.
	The following were in attendance at the ex-
ecutive session:
	Washington, D. C.—Mrs. Ruth C. Dennison,
Miss Eliza T. Ward, Miss Martha V. Johnson;


Mrs. Jane H. Spofford, Miss Elizabeth Wil-
son, Mrs. Sarah J. Messer, Miss Frances B.
Andrews, and Miss Theresa Williams.
	Connecticut—Miss F. E. Barr. 
	Colorado—Margaret Bowen.
	California—L. De F. Gordon.
	Illinois—Dr. Alice B. Stockham. 
	Kansas—A. L. Diggs.
	Kentucky—Miss Laura White. 
	Iowa—Mary E. McPherson.
	Maine—Mrs. M.S. Carlisle.
	Massachusetts—Mrs. Sophia A. Forbes, Mrs.
Cora V. Smart, Harriet R. Shattuck.
	Nebraska—Clara B. Colby.
	Maryland—Amanda M. Best.
	New York—E. C. Stanton, M. J. Gage, L.
D. Blake, C. G. Rogers, Mrs. Halleck, Mrs.
Hull, S. W. Ellis, Dr. Harriet B. Chapin.
	Ohio—S. M. Perkins, E. S. Fray.
	Pennsylvania—Matilda Hindman.
	Wyoming—Mrs. Amelia P. Post.
	At the executive session held Wednesday
morning the Woman Suffrage Association elec-
ted the following officers: President, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton; vice-presidents at large, Susan
B. Anthony,Matilda Joslyn Gage, Rev. Olym-
pia Brown, Phoebe W. Cousens, Abigail Scott
Duniway; chairman of the executive commit-
tee, May Wright Sewall; recording secretaries,
Ellen H. Sheldon, Washington ;Eliza T. Ward,
Washington; Pearl Adams,Illinois; correspond-
ing secretary, Rachel G. Foster, Philadelphia;
foreign corresponding secretaries, England,
Caroline A. Page, London; Lydia E. Becker,
Manchester; France, Mme. Marguerrette Ber-
ry Stanton; M'lle Hubertine, Anclert, and
Charlotte B. Wilbur, Paris; Germany, Clara
Neyman, Berlin; treasurer, Jane H. Spofford,
Washington; auditors, Ruth C. Dennison and
Julia A. Wilbur, of this city. In addition to
these, honorary and regular vice-presidents and
members of the executive committee were
chosen to represent the different states and ter-
ritories. The honorary vice presidents for this
District are Rosina M. Parnell, Susan Edson,
M. D., and Ruth C. Dennison, the regular lo-
cal vice president being Ellen M. O'Conner.
The chairman of the executive committee is
May Wright Sewall, and the local members
Belva A. Lockwood and Caroline B. Winslow.
	The chairman of the executive committee
submitted a number of recommendations and
suggestions, including a proposition for the es-
tablishment of a national headquarters and a
paper to be the organ of the association; and
also the holding of conventions in the different
states. Mrs. H. R. Shattuck, of Massachusetts,
reported a plan for a basis of delegate repre-
sentation.		WANDERER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	SNOWVILLE, Box Elder Co., Utah.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As I have never read anything in your val-
uable columns about Snowville (which I will
state for explanation is named in honor of our
beloved Apostle Lorenzo Snow, and not be-
cause we have any more snow than you do in
Salt Lake City), I thought I would drop you a
few lines concerning our ward. We are, the
most of us, striving to be Latter-day Saints.
Our Relief Society is in full force, with Sister
Mary Goodliffe as Prest. They look after the
poor in purse and spirit, and the sick also;
they have lots of wheat on hand, in fact the
Bishop says they are the richest people in the
ward, and if you want anything done without
fail, call on the Relief Society, and it is done.
	The Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A. are in a most
flourishing condition; they meet conjointly
every Sunday evening. This is the Bishop's
plan to keep the young folks together, and a
most admirable and successful one it has


proved. Their meetings are conducted similar
to those in Salt Lake City; every one, without
exception, tries to do the best he can when
called upon. I have never yet heard but one
person ask to be excused when called upon to
speak.
	The Primary Association is not behind, but
is doing its best. The Presidency, M. A. Green,
E. Ballam and S. Hurd. are alive to their du-
ties and interested in the work, striving to do
all they can to teach, instruct and interest the
children. Truly the Primary work is a great
and glorious one.
	We have a nice Sunday School, which would
compare favorably with any, I think. Of
course we have many obstacles and drawbacks
which is consistent and common to all young
settlements.
	Last, but not least, we have a Bishop (A.
Goodliffe) and counsel that are up to the mark.
They are awake and doing. We also have
that element known as "Liberalism," which is
encouraging, though trying, and a cause many
times of sorrow to the true Latter-day Saint;
but the Lord has said that there must needs be
opposition, it is necessary to taste the bitter to
know and appreciate the sweet, and where the
work of God is, there is opposition, or Satan's
work, also.
	Before closing I will tell you about a sur-
prise gotten up on the Prest. of the Y. L. M.
I. A., Sister E. E. Goodliffe, it was her birth-
day and a few relatives, etc., had been invited 
to supper, when lo and behold! here comes a
whole party and literally stormed the place,
taking our beloved President at a decided dis-
advantage. It was indeed a most enjoyable
affair. There were speeches, in which one and
all bore testimony to the goodness and worth
of Sister Goodliffe, songs, dancing and lots of
pies and cakes, etc.
	Your paper is a welcome guest in our homes
and we say long life to "Aunt Em" and her
able staff and God bless you.
	Secretary.


[Column 1]
	All the subscribers of the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT in the city will please send their address,
name, street and number, to this Office, in or-
der to have their papers delivered by the mail
carriers.

	The Referee, an illustrated comic paper, has
been started in this city. It is always full of
smart and funny things, at least the three
copies we have received were. The editors are
Messrs. J. Rich and S. Kenner, both celebrated
for their originality and sarcasms, puns, etc.
If the Referee does not succeed, it will not be
for lack of talented and witty editors.

[Column 2]
	ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
		Z.    C.   M.    I.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTER AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.
	AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
		in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	and an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

Home-Made Silks!
Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
	grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
		Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES by
					MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
	Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road

FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
	CALL AND EXAMINE

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[hand pointing right] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.

Address, DAVID JAMES, Box [---], SALT LAKE CITY


The British brewers last year paid $45,000,-
000 in taxes, and exported more than $7,500,-
000 worth of beer.
	George C. Miln, after being in turn a clergy-
man and an actor, is about to become a lectur-
er. Mr. Miln would make an admirable front-
ispiece for the "Descent of Man."—New York
Graphic.
	Life is warfare, and those who climb up and
down steep paths and go through dangerous
enterprises are the brave men and the leaders
in the camp, but to rest basely at the cost of
others' labors is to be a coward, safe because
despised.—Seneca.
	Sometimes the "heaviest wheat of all" may
spring up from seeds dropped in an accidental
way. What a motive to the maintenance of
personal holiness! The accidental is a shadow
of the intentional. Influence is the exhalation
of character.—W. M. Taylor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

