VOL. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1884	No. 9.


CHILDREN OF LIGHT

BY M. A. GREENHALGH.

	[Written for the Y. L. M. I. A. at Fillmore, and in-
serted in their manuscript paper, "The Young Ladies'
Literary Companion."]

"WALK AS CHILDREN OF LIGHT."—EPH. 7.8.

Children of light, are ye slumbering, roaming?
	Where, where is the witness for God and His Son?
Christ in us, Christ for us, Christ risen, Christ coming;
	Are these but traditions? Is victory won?
Do we shrink from the scroll on His banner unfurl'd,
From the changeless "My Kingdom is not of this
	world."

There is battle—the foemen are marshall'd in order;
	Are we ready to stand, suffer, die at His word?
There are posts to be held by lone watcher and warder
	Enroll'd in the book of the wars of the Lord.
Are we numbered with those who count all things but
	loss,
For Christ and His glory, for Christ and His cross?

Spirit of God now revive us, restoring
	A witness of love, separation and might;
Illumine the world, let His children, adoring,
	Find warrior munition and strength for the fight.
Yea, lighten our darkness—dispersing the mist
Reveal the unsearchable riches of Christ.

For oh! there are heights of unclouded communion,
	And trophies of promise yet, yet to be won;
There are earnests of heaven in pilgrimage union,
	And well-springs of bliss still untasted, unknown
Who fully his charter, his birthright explores,
Who fathoms the deepness "all things are yours."

Child of the light, art thou hidden—abiding?
	Of the holy of holies the floors hast thou trod?
In the secret, the calm of Thy presence confiding,
	Is the home of thy soul in the shadow of God?
Thence none shall efface, nor can time disannul
His "ask and receive, that your joy may be full."

Art thou glad, day by day, for a quicken'd observing
	Of the hand that with skillfulness fashions thy path?
Of new loving-kindness, fresh pledges preserving
	In works pre-ordained for the proof of thy faith;
Omnipotence raising the soul when it faints
With the whispered "He keepeth the feet of His
	Saints."

Oh, now, by our hope, by the cross, by its guerdon!
	Let the glory of God on His ransom'd be seen.
Appointed to each is his service, his burden;
	Shall we swerve where the footsteps of Jesus have
		been?
No, Christ and eternity, this everymore
Be the watchword of lives which He died to restore.

So we take up the march, on to victory pressing,
	Flashing back the sun signals of guidance and cheer;
Reflecting the radiance of pardon and blessing,
	Living out the glad song-note, "Salvation is near."
Thus Father, thus Savior, thus Spirit of might,
Let us shine, love and walk as the children of light.
	Meadow, Sep. 12, 1884.


USEFULNESS VERSUS HAPPINESS.

	Realizing the great inportance of thorough
knowledge on a subject wherein thousands of
human lives are involved, too much cannot be
said concerning the qualification of women to
fill the important station of nurses, and the
still more responsible position of midwives.
No one can gainsay the adaptability by nature
of woman-to attend to her own sex. Then
let her qualify herself by proper education to
become that skillful and sympathizing attend-
ant.
	What a blessed boon to humanity that ig-
norance and superstition are being superceded


by enlightenment and knowledge. That suffer-
ing women shall no longer be, unavoidably,
subjected to the ignorant and unskillful manip-
ulations of illiterate and unskillful persons.
	In perusing the history of medicine from
the time of Hippocrates till the present we
can note the gradual, but sure progress made
by the branch of obstetrics which was for-
mally about the lower round in the ladder, this
practice being almost entirely in the hands of
uneducated women; but it has gradually ascend-
ed the scale of importance until at the pres-
ent time it is considered a science and art
greater than which there is none other, it
now being among the higher accomplishments
of many of our most brilliant stars in the gal-
axy of surgery and medicine.
	How often do physicians have occasion to ac-
knowledge the benefits bestowed upon their
patients by the skilful attention of trained
nurses? and vice versa, how often are prec-
ious lives sacrificed by ignorant and inexperi-
enced nurses assuming such weighty responsi-
bilities?
	Where are all of our ambitious women? ambi-
tious for usefulness I mean—you who have
within your souls an innate longing for a high-
er better and nobler life, who desire some other
hope, some other object and ambition than liv-
ing for self alone. Arouse yourselves from
the daily routine of eating, drinking, sleeping,
dressing, visiting, reading, attending balls or
theatres etc., by a little exertion endeavor to
crowd these occupations a little closer to-
gether and make room for something
grander and far more enjoyable for what can
in this life give to the honest a more delightful
sensation than the consciousness of doing
good to a fellow creature—of soothing the
throbbing head, of alleviating the pains and
aches of mortal bodies.
	Indeed how frequently can acute mental
anguish be allayed by the touch of a gentle
hand, and the sound of a voice solicitous and
kind, by assuring a sufferer there is at least
one on earth and one in heaven who is interest-
ed in her welfare.
	Come my sisters engage in this pursuit, or
in that which will elevate your existence to
lives of worth and usefulness.
	To those who have an inherent suitable-
ness to the study and practice of obstetrics
there is certainly no avocation more worthy of
their highest aspirations.
							E. R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

(Continued.)

	In describing the ferry over the Missouri
near the Pottawatamie village, he says, "A
heavy freshet had at this time swollen the
river to a width, as I should judge, of some-
thing like a mile and a half, and dashed past,
its fierce current rushing, gurgling and eddying
as if thrown from a mill race, or scriptural
fountain of the deep. Its aspect did not invite
the oxen to their duty, and the labor was to
force them to it. The driver's was the sought
after post of honor here; and sometimes, when
repeated failures have urged them to emula-
tion, I have seen the youths in stepping from
back to back of the struggling monsters, or
swimming in among battling hoofs, display

[Column 2]
feats of address and hardihood, that would
have made Franconi's or the Madrid bullring
vibrate with bravoes of applause. But in the
hours after hours that I have watched this
sport at the ferry side, I never heard an oath
or the language of quarrel, or knew it pro-
voke the least sign of ill feeling.
	"After the sorrowful word was given out to
halt, and make preparations for winter, a chief
labor became the making of hay; and with
every day-dawn brigades of mowers would take
up the march to their positions in chosen mead-
ows—a prettier sight than a charge of caval-
ry—as they laid their swarths, whole compan-
ies of scythes abreast."
	"When they set about building their winter
houses too, the Mormons went into quite con-
siderable timbering operations, and performed
desperate feats of carpentry.	*	*	It
was wonderful to notice the readiness with
which they turned their hands to woodcraft;
some of them, though I believe these had gen-
erally been bred carpenters, wheelwrights, or
more particularly boat builders, quite outdoing
the most notable voyageurs in the use of the
ax. One of these would fell a tree, strip off
its bark, cut and split up the trunk in piles of
planks, scantling, or shingles, make posts and
pins, and poles—everything almost of the
branches, and treat toil, from first to last, with
more sportive flourish than a schoolboy whit-
tling his shingle.
	"Inside the camp the chief labors were con-
fined to the women. From the moment, when
after the halt, the lines had been laid, the
springs were dug out and the ovens and fire-
places built, though the men still assumed to
set the guards and enforce the regulations of
police, the empire of the tented town was with
the better sex. They were the chief comfort-
ers of the severest sufferers, the kind nurses
who gave them in their sickness those dear at-
tentions with which pauperism is hardly poor,
and which the greatest wealth often fails to
buy. And they were a nation of wonderful
managers; they could hardly be called house-
wives in etymological strictness, but it was
plain they had once been such, and most dis-
tinguished ones. Their art availed them in
their changed affairs. With almost their en-
tire culinary materials limited to the milk of
their cows, some store of meal or flour and a
very few condiments, they brought their thou-
sand and one recipes into play with a success
that outdid for their families the miracle of the
Hebrew woman's cruse."
	As he says, we could "make butter on a
march by the dashing of the wagon, and so
nicely to calculate the working of harm in the
jolting heats," that as soon after camping as the
fire could be prepared the "the well-kneaded
loaf ' was ready for the bake kettle or reflector,
which commodities were well suited to the
wants and necessities during our camp life.
	"The first duty of the Mormon women was,
through all changes of place and fortune, to
keep alive the altar fire of home. Whatever
their manifold labors for the day, it was their
effort to complete them against the sacred hour
of evening fall. For by that time all the out-
workers, scouts, ferrymen or bridgemen, road-
makers, herdsmen, or hay-makers, had finished
their tasks and come into their rest.	*	*
But every day closed as every day began, with
an invocation of the Divine favor; without
which, indeed, no Mormon seemed to dare to
lay him down to rest. With the first shining


[Column 1]
of the stars laughter and loud talking hushed,
the neighbor went his way, you heard the last
hymn sung, and then the thousand-voiced mur-
mur of prayer was heard, like babbling water
falling down the hills.
	"There was no austerity, however, about the
religion of Mormonism. Their fasting and
penance, it is no jest to say, was altogether in-
voluntary. They made no merriment of that.
*	*	They had the sort of strong-
stomached faith that is still found embalmed
in sheltered spots of Catholic Italy and Spain.
*	*	It mixed itself up fearlessly
with the common transactions of their every
day life, and only to give liveliness and col-
or.
	"If any passages of life bear better than others
a double interpretation, they are adventures of
travel and of the field. What old persons call
discomforts and discouraging mishaps, are the
very elements to the young and sanguine of
what they are willing to term fun. The
Mormons took the young and hopeful side.
They could make sport and frolic of their trials
and often turn right sharp suffering into right
round laughter against themselves."	*	*
	August 20th. Horace mentions the choir of
singers meeting at Bro. Wm. Clayton's tent to
practice, also of a council being held that day;
among the rest was considered the propriety
of sending for goods and other things, by Bro.
Whitney who was preparing to go to St. Louis
for this purpose. On the 21st he wrote "Brigham
and Dr. Richards with Brother Kimball and
father spent the most of the forenoon at my
tent in talking over the affairs of the Church,
etc."
	The 22nd I well remember it being my 18th
birthday. That day Horace wrote a letter of
exhortation and advice left by my father to his
family to be read to them that evening as he,
with President B. Young, W. Richards and
one or two others, went over the river to hold
meetings next day it being Sunday. The same
day Horace mentions the following event.
	One night while the brethren were encamped
in the woods on the route to Leavenworth, a
terrible storm or hurricane arose, which sur-
passed anything of the kind within the memo-
ry of the inhabitants.
	But what supprised them all was that al-
though showers of limbs of trees were con-
stantly falling around them, the space within
which they were encamped, was in perfect
calmness and security."	*	*	*	*
	"A man by the name of Griffin called and
brought intelligence from Bro. Miller's camp.
He related to us an anecdote concerning two
of the brethren who went out on mules armed
and equipped as a kind of a scouting party
were surprised by a party of Indians of the
Punkaw tribe who dragged them from their
mules, took from them their arms and were
about to confine them when one of the mules
suddenly turned and kicked one of the party
over—this circumstance distracting their atten-
tion afforded the men a chance to escape
which they quickly did afoot, leaving their
mules etc., behind in the hands of the Indians.
The brethren returned to their camp, and in
two days after their mules came in with their
saddles and bridles on—the reason was sup-
posed to be that they broke away from the
Indians and they could not retake them.
Brother Griffin also told us that eight chiefs
of the Punkaw tribe came to the Pawnee vil-
lage (where the brethren are encamped) to
smoke the "pipe of peace," with the Pawnees,
who were out on a hunting excursion. As they
did not return, after waiting for some time, the
Pawnee chief told Bro. Miller that they would
conduct him to a good place (one of the vil-
lages) to pass the winter, which they did, it
being fifty miles north on the route to Fort
Laramie. They went with them and found it
a beautiful place indeed, abounding in rushes.

[Column 2]
pea-vines, etc., etc. The Indians appeared to
be very friendly and offered them corn, or any-
thing else they wanted and told them they were
welcome to put up buildings and remain as
long as they chose."


66	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:

	Dear sister: Your letter of May 23rd was re-
ceived, for which I thank you kindly. I felt
quite refreshed in reading it, and of the dis-
courses at the dedication of the Temple. It
opened many ideas in my mind, and gave ad-
ditional light thereon, which was food for seri-
ous meditation.		*		*		*
	My feelings of late have been troubled great-
ly meditating on the murder of Elders Gibbs
and Berry. I cannot tell you my feelings. The
first news I received was in the EXPONENT. I
could scarcely find patience to wait till the
News came for further information of the affair.
I could not rest night nor day. I do sympa-
thize with the bereaved, I know what it is to part
with those whom you could have laid down
your life to have saved theirs. May our
Heavenly Father comfort them and bless
them; I feel for them that their martyred ones
are safe; they fell like valiant soldiers while on
duty at their post; thank God they fell with the
harness on.

Zion can boast her sons
	Whose trust is in the Lord:
Her prophets and her martyred ones
	Slain for the Savior's word.

	Will not Talmage, Edmunds, Cook, Hoar,
Smith, and others of the opposite party, rejoice
now to see the seeds they have sown sprouting
and growing. Who among all in the outside
world have done more to fan the flames of
mobocracy than the Smith Brothers of Lamoni,
and their followers? Joseph Smith went to
Washington desiring the governorship of Utah.
When one of his apostles was discussing here
on the Book of Mormon, Rev. Coovert told
him pretty plain about it, too. I do really
think if he had never been born it would have
been better for him. "The way of the trans-
gressor is hard."
	The sad case of our martyred Elders makes
me think of an expression used in a prayer of
Apostle F. D. Richards' in the Hall of Science,
Sheffield, England, in 1851; he stated, "The
blood of the martyrs, with Joseph and Hyrum,
have watered the tree of life with their blood,
and all the machinations of earth and hell
combined, cannot prevent its onward progress."
I have thought many times of this, for I
heard him speak it; he is a good man, and if I
had had a son given me I was intending to call
him Franklin.
	Sister Wells, I am very lonely here; I am
here by myself. You don't know how I feel
when I get a few lines of comfort from a
brother or sister. I go from home very seldom
down to the city; the city is full of amusements
for those who have an appetite for husks and
cobs; they are ripening fast for what awaits
them. I stay at home and read the Deseret
News and EXPONENT, and meditate thereon
and view matters over and over again; by so
doing I have been blest; my mind opened to di-
vine light and understanding that I would not
give it away for all Pittsburgh is worth. For
some time back my time has been thus spent.
I have received a peace of mind and joy that
I cannot express. I want to live my religion,
and I am striving to do so acceptably before
my Heavenly Father. I feel that this work is
taking deeper root among the nations of the
earth; the words spoken by the Priesthood are
piercing far deeper than ever day by day. May
heaven speed it on, may that day soon dawn

[Column 2]
when the blood of martyrs will be required o
this nation.
	There is one thing I notice, the servants of
Jesus Christ have nearly circumnagivated the
globe, have gone forth at God's bidding and
borne the heavenly banner aloft of the Gospel
of the kingdom, and no one fell a martyr for
the truth only those who have fallen under the
American flag.
	I am striving to do right; the instructions
given me by the Priesthood in the discourses
in the News are my guiding star, and I strive
to live in accordance with the same. I had set
my mind to come to Utah next spring—I have
thought many times I would see you soon, but
surroundings look very cloudy at present. My
mind was fixed on this and I shall not give up.
I am trying to do my part, praying my Father
to help me and open my way. My mind was
never more firmly set on anything than this;
my Father has brought me through many try-
ing scenes in a wonderful manner, for which I
can bear testimony of the divine power in my
behalf, which has been an astonishment to me,
but I know it is true; He is my Father still. I
shall lean upon him and try to do right. I need
your faith and prayers. You have mine.
	Please give my love to Sister H. M. Whit-
ney, that worthy mother in Israel. God bless
her and her family. I hope to see you before
long and shake hands with you both. Pray
for me.
	May God bless His faithful Israel everywhere,
and may it be my happy lot to gather home to
Zion soon, as it was my intention to on leaving
England, but circumstances prevented.
	May God bless you and yours, and myself
with you, is the earnest prayer of your
brother,			HENRY M. WILLRAHAM.


A HAPPY AFFAIR.

	On Tuesday, September 30, Miss Martha J.
Horne was united in marriage to Elder Joseph
S. Tingey; both of this city. Miss Horne was one
of the first girls who learned type setting here,
and set type for the EXPONENT from its first is-
sue. She made herself very proficient in the
art of type setting, and could compete with
any of the men in the office in this respect.
The bride is a very promising young woman; is
very much loved by her friends, and greatly
esteemed by all. She holds a prominent posi-
tion in the Y. L. M. I. A. She is the daughter
of Elder Joseph and M. Isabella Horne, both
widely and favorably known among the Lat-
ter-day Saints. The bridegroom is the son of
Bishop Tingey of the 17th Ward; he is a typo
in the Deseret News Office, and is a young
man in every way likely to make a good hus-
band.
	A reception was held at the residence of the
bride's parents in the evening, and the friends
were entertained in a very hospitable style. A
delicious repast, abounding with fruits, wed-
ding cake, ice cream and tempting delicacies,
was served to all the guests.
	Prest. John Taylor, Prest. George Q. Can-
non, Gen. Daniel H. Wells, Prest. A. M. Can-
non and ladies and many others were present,
and a whole bevy of young people. There
were many generous gifts bestowed, acompan-
ied by good wishes and congratulations. There
was some music by the young ladies, and a
speech by Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon.
	We tender our most sincere congratulations,
and would wish for the happy young couple
peace, prosperity and every blessing that the
most perfect union of heart and hand can
possibly bestow; long life and happiness here,
and a fulness of celestial glory hereafter.


Miss Nettie Carpenter, of New York, aged
sixteen, took the first prize in the violin class
at the Paris Conservatoire this year.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 67


[Column 1]
	HELEN AND VIRGINIA

		[Continued.]
An hour later Helen strayed
Adown her garden path alone.
Soft moonlight wrapt the lonely scene,
	And heaven’s peace fell sweetly round;
Unuttered prayer reached God’s far throne;
	And calm and holy strength were found.

She turned and sought Virginia's side
Musing in troubled thought apart
Within the porch’s vine wreathed shade.
	“Virginia, should there come to you
The love, and proffer of a heart
	That you should know is pure and true,

“Accept it without fear or thought
Of hesitance for any cause.
You have had testimony of
	The wide world’s hollow faith and sin,
And you have learned God’s higher laws—
	Fear not to choose and live therein.

“For that pure love which we profess
Toward all creatures, o’en divides
Our own heart's treasures; we, too, lay
	Our Isaac on faith’s altar raised;
His power and love our strength provides;
	He gives, He takes—His name be praised!”

Fair, peaceful as the moonlit night
The wondrous charm that thrilled them through;
Pure, vast as heaven’s dark blue depth
	The faith surmounting bonds of earth,
And in that hour these spirits knew
	A fre’er height, a holier birth.

Union of soul, more sacred sweet
And firmer e’en than kindred ties,
For, faith and sacrifice combined
	Within the heart, the world without—
Thought's grandest aspirations rise
	And gird the human, all about.

Then, rising, Helen stooped to kiss
Virginia’s drooping, weeping face,
Tears of sweet joy and gratitude.
	“Good night, and banish all thy tears;
God keep us even by His grace
	Through blessed days and months and years.”

“Helen, I have been lonely; where
Have you been straying this fair night
And I not with you? Are you sad?”
	For gentle as one half adream
She came in silence in his sight,
	So pale, and yet so calm she seemed.

“Helen," the fear leaped to his lips—
“Have I aggrieved you, do you know
What I have striven against, and hid,
	And yet is truth? O Helen, speak!
Waiting, I’ve wavered to and fro,
	For love of you has made me weak.”

“And have you feared me more than God,
Have I e’er checked your upward path
That you should falter to reveal
	To me thoughts righteous, pure and good?
Would God not move me in His wrath
	If I ’gainst His commandments stood?

“And did you dream I did not see
The first faint thought that lit your eyes?
O love that’s true has quickest sight!
	And the heart hears in ev’ry tone.
That other thought; O love is wise
	And brave and swift, and gen’rous too.

“But dearer far than this same love,
Love of the Gospel—its reward.
And I would rather lose e’en yours
	Than see you yield a truth for mine;
Be loyal first unto thy Lord
	And trust this woman heart of mine.

"E'en now thine angel waits to bear
The tidings of this hour fulfilled;
The angel that bears up our prayers
	Before we close our eyes in sleep,
Awaits thy words—no longer still
	Within thy heart its burden keep.

"Go speak to her, and let us kneel
Not three divided, but as one."

[Column 2]
He sought, and brought Virginia, then,
	As they bowed down in evening prayer,
He said: “O God, Thy will be done!
	And help us each aright to bear

“Our mission in Thy work through life,
And may these hands linked thus to-night
E’er faithful prove in every deed.
	Be Thou our guide lest we should fail:
We thank Thee for that holy light
	Whereby our sight pierced through the veil

“Of ignorance, and saw beyond.
Establish so our lives that none
May blame Thy cause because of us;
	But truthful ones may search and find
That here Thy will not man’s is done
	To benefit all humankind.

“This night’s betrothal may we keep
Through life, death and eternity,
In love and fear and reverence.
	Bless Thou, Thy daughter Helen, here,
Accept her offering unto Thee,
	And may the Comforter be near

“Her side in ev’ry trying hour.
Bless Thou Virginia, may her feet
Ne’er falter in the chosen path;
	Fill her young years with wisdom’s light
That righteous works may make complete
	Her joy and mission in Thy sight.

“Bless, Thou, Thy servant, be his guide,
That those who with him seek Thy love
May never lose their trust in him;
	May we Thy faithful children be,
And earn below that place above
	Where we, O Lord, Thy face shall see.”


A GENTLE LADY'S LETTER

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:

	Dear friend:  This is a quiet Sunday just cool
enough to be pleasant, though the sun shines
brightly. I am going to pretend that I have
run over to see you and to chat a while with
you all.
	First, I wish to tell Mrs. Elizabeth Little
how much her "Day-dream" pleased me. I
should think you Mormon women would write
such stories often. Our papers are full of do-
mestic tales of "Love in a Cottage,"  "Love in
the Palace," "Love in the Attic." The highest,
best forms are pictured out and a sort of ro-
mantic glamor is thrown over all, that entices
the young and beguiles the older readers. I be-
lieve there are enough of pleasant, truly happy
domestic scenes among your family surround-
ings, which, if written up, would do much good
for your people.
	So Mrs. Newman denies a part of the Cin-
cinnati paper's report of her speech there? She
need not deny it, for the report was correct.
Some lady reporter must have been present, as
no gentlemen were admitted. I presume she
thought by excluding gentlemen she would
give out the impression that some awful doings
of the Mormons would be told. Too awfully
awful to tell in the presence of gentlemen. I
did not see that she told anything so dreadful,
however. To be sure she said, "there are no
homes in Utah, only kennels of reproduction,”
which, doubtless, six out of ten of the ladies
present, could have affirmed is the case gener-
ally in this part of the country. “Home,
sweet home. There is no place so dear to me
as home." Mark Twain said in reply, “Yes,
that’s the way it strikes me; mine got so dear I
could not pay, so I broke up and went to board-
ing."
	Home—children, a mother, love, pleasant
evenings around the fireside, a resting place for
the weary wanderer in after years, when child-
hood has passed and the cares of life have wear-
ied the heart. That is what makes a home;
and I believe there are as many among your
people as there are here. Homes where
	"Each unforgotten word,
		When far those loved ones roam,
	Calls back the heart which once it stirred,
		To childhood's happy home."

	Mrs. Hemans, who wrote these beautiful
lines, and so many others, is loved and hon-
ored. Her domestic surroundings were very
unpleasant, and we sympathise with her that
her life was saddened, but one might say that
had she been a Mormon and given another
wife to her husband, her children need not have
seemed so fatherless, nor would her life have
been more lonely, and her husband could have
been happy. According to the biography writ-
ten by L. M. Sigourney, Captain Hemans had
no great faults, only that "he grew jealous of
her writings." I suppose she cared more for
her literature than she did for her husband,
and neglected him for it, without giving him
any substitute for her love and companion-
ship.  He had a right to be jealous, any man
would be.
	Mormon women, of course I do not know
you personally, nor do I know but that you
are a "poor, deluded set of women, who are
down-trodden and unhappy and would be
thankful to have your chains broken," but I
cannot but believe you are as happy as the
general run of women. That you are intelli-
gent your letters prove. Mrs. Newman ac-
knowledged she got much of her information
from Ann Eliza, did she?  Ann Eliza!  The
woman who hated polygamy so, and dreaded
it continually, and then, as soon as divorced
from her first husband, who had no wife but
herself, she married a man who had a dozen
and more; then, after escaping from something
so terrible, she had to get a gentleman in the
East to write her lecture for her.
	The only particular outrage I can remember
that Ann Eliza mentioned in her lectures (I
heard her twice), was that Brigham, when he
prepared a house for her, placed the stairway
in the parlor instead of complying with her re-
quest to have it in the sitting room or kitchen.
That was awful! No man outside of Mormon-
ism would do such a thing. Aside--as they
say in the drama--The majority of men, outside
of Mormonism, do not place stairways at all,
for they do not build houses for their wives.
	The Tennessee massacre was sad and deplor-
able. Oh, I do not see why so many sad
events must mar the enjoyment of life. The
few short years of life should be spent in joy.
The Maker of the universe has fitted up such
a beautiful home for man--full of beauty, with
the bright skies overhead, the flowers and trees
in such endless varieties; the music of birds
and the fruits, to delight ear and taste; wonders
on every side to charm and amuse. Why can
not all unite in peace and praise to sing:  "Praise
God from whom all blessings flow." But it
seems as though such a condition cannot be
brought about; and, as Pope says, "To reason
right is to submit." He says also, I believe,
"Passions are the elements of life."
	But perhaps I am taking too much of your
time, so, for the present, I will say good:bye.
			With best wishes,
							EMILY SCOTT. 
	Ohio, August 24th, 1884.


Miss Flora Underwood is the newly appoint-
ed teller of the Granite National Bank, of
Quincy, Mass.
	Charlotte Smith is President of the Woman's
National Industrial League. She is employed
to gather statistics of female employments for
the Government Labor Bureau. She finds that
there are 125,000 bread-winning women in
New York city; of these 32,500 are now out of
employment. 30,000 are destiute. Twenty
thousand girls drop from the working ranks
into evil lives every year, mostly from the
class of shop-girls and saleswomen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	*	* Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months
$1.00  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2, 50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
		VISIT TO THE COUNTRY
	In Company with Sister	Eliza R. S. Smith we
left the city on the southern  railway train
Thursday morning, September 11th.  At Provo
Sisters M. A. Hyde and M. W. Snow joined our
party.  At Nephi we stopped long enough to
dine with Sister Pitchforth, then took Sanpete
Valley Railway for Fountain Green, where we
were most hospitably welcomed and entertained
at Bishop Johnson's.
	Friday morning at ten o'clock the Relief So
ciety Conference of that Stake convened in the
new brick meeting house, Sister M. A. Hyde
presiding. Prest. Peterson, with his wife and
a carriage load of ladies, had come from Eph-
raim to attend the sisters' Conference.  There
were a great many brethren present, and the re-
ports of the sisters from the different places
plainly showed that the Relief Society in that
county was in a flourishing condition, and the
sisters were doing a very excellent work; they
have given a great deal towards the Manti Tem-
ple, and are not weary in well doing.  They
have considerable money donated for a woolen
factory and the site has been selected.  The
sisters of Fountain Green furnished the money
to by the glass for their new meeting house.
Indeed it is wonderful how much has been ac
complished by the Relief Society in that one
Stake.  The meeting was addressed by Sisters
Jane Ann B[-]wn of Fayette, Caroline Madson
Mt. Pleasant, followed by Sister Eliza R. S. 
Smith, who gave much good advice, and re-
viewed the work which had been accomplished
by the Relief Society beginning without means.
She encouraged the sisters to persevere, to take
care of the poor, and urged them to live near to
the Lord.
	Prest. Peterson made some very pleasing and
interesting remarks, illustrating what she said
by very happy comparisons, which are always
impressive.
	Sister Hyde spoke in praise of the Brigham
Young Academy, and made other appropriate
remarks.
	The afternoon meeting was addressed by
Coun. Sarah Ann Peterson, who dwelt upon the
storing of grain, and told what had been accom-
plished in that direction by gleaning, and also
spoke of the exertions made to build the woolen
mill, and referred to other important labors in
which she was interested.  Sister Polly Ann
Johnson of Fountain Green made a few remarks
in regard to the work of the sisters there, and
spoke of her long and varied experience in the
Church.  Sister M. W. Snow of St. George oc
cupied a short time in speaking upon spiritual
things; referred to the days of the Prophet Jos-
eph and the principle of plural marriage.  Sister
E. B. Wells spoke upon the subjects of education
and cultivation of talent.
	Sister Eliza R. S. SMith spoke on the growth

			[Column 2]
of infidelity, its causes, and the necessity of the
young being instructed in the principles of the
Gospel and receiving the Holy Spirit to preserve
them from evil influences and as a safeguard
against temptation and doubt.  Referred par-
ticularly to government and discipline in the
training of children and to the correct cultiva-
tion of the conscience; thought mothers should
have the highest and best possible education.
Pres'. Peterson and Bishop Yorgenson each oc-
cupied a short time, after which meeting ad-
journed.
	In the evening the young men of the brass
band came to Bishop Johnson's to serenade the
ladies, and were invited in to partake of refresh-
ments; played some popular music very credit-
ably, which was quite enlivening.  Sister Eliza
in behalf of the ladies, made a few remarks,
thanking them for the courtesy.
	The conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Stake was held Saturday morning, September
13, Miss Helen Armstrong presiding; reports
were given by the young lady presidents in a 
brief and comprehensive manner, which was
very creditable.  The young girls at Moroni re-
ported concerning a fair held by them, at which
they had clea[-]ed quite a little sum of money to-
wards starting a library.  They had four quilts
to donate to the Deseret Hospital.  After a few
remarks from the president, Miss Armstrong,
Sister Eliza delivered a most excellent address
to the young, in which she included everything
young girls should learn, and gave them mother-
ly advice to guide them in after life; after which
the remainder of the time was taken up by the
other visiting sisters.
	In the afternoon the Primary Association met
in conference, Mrs. Hannah Collard presiding.
There were 130 children present.  Exercises and
recitations were well rendered.  Some remarks
were made by Sister Heywood of Chester, Sis-
ter Eliza R. and others.  At the conclusion con-
ference adjourned for three months.
	The same evening we drove to Bishop Irons'
at Moroni, where we were most heartily wel-
comed.  Next morning attended the Sunday
School, and also Sabbath services at 2 p.m. El-
der John Chase preached an excellent disco[--]se.
In the eveing there was a meeting of the
young people, and the house was crowded; Mrs.
A. M. Hardy presided.
	Monday morning drove over to Mt. Pleasant,
where a general meeting was appointed for
eleven a.m., and Primary at half past three
p.m.  We dined at Bishop Madsen's, and the
same evening we drove to Spring City, where a
general meeting was held in the evening at
seven.
	Tuesday morning drove to Ephraim, accom-
panied by Bishop Allred and Counselor Larsen
and several ladies.  Dined at Prest. Peterson's,
met with the Relief Society at two and Primary
at half past four p.m., remaining there all night,
and spending a very pleasant evening with
Prest. Peterson and him amiable family.
	Wednesday morning the party drove over to
Manti, where a general meeting had been ap-
pointed at eleven.  Dined at Bro. Wareham's
and then went to visit the Temple, Bro. Folsom,
the architect, and also Prest. Ma[-]b[-]n, who re-
sides there, took great pains to take the party
through the building and explain it.
	This Temple being built in the mountain and
exalted above the hills gives it, to one tinctured
with sublime ideas, a sort of Scriptural signifi-
cance, and one cannot describe in words the feel-
ing of enthusiasm and awe it inspires in the
soul. It is a grand and magnificent structure,
and one that will "attract the gaze and wonder-
ing eyes of all that worship gloriously."  After
returning from the Temple we went direct to
the meeting house to the Primary, where the

			[Column 3]
children had already assembled.  The meeting
was a very interesting one, and indeed all the
meetings in the Stake had been very numer-
ously attended, and many brethren had taken
pains to be present.  The Bishops showed every
attention to the sisters, conveying the party
from place o place, and manifesting an in
terest in the organizations.  We returned to Eph-
raim and remained at Prest. Peterson's over night.
	Thursday morning early drove over to Wales,
and took the train for Nephi, where we arrived
barely in time to fill an appointment to meet
with the Relief Society.  The  meeting house, which
was well filled, Sister Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sister Eliza addressed the congregation upon the
duties and privileges, as well as labors devolving
upon Latter-day Saints, and exhorted all to dilli-
gence and faithfulness.  Sisters Wells and Snow
each spoke a few minutes.
	This was our last meeting on our visit south.
We dined at Bro. Bryan's with several of the
brethren and sisters of Nephi.  We enjoyed
ourselves very much while absent, and feel very
grateful to all who so kindly entertained us
while travelling in the interest of the L. D. S.
women's associations, and we reached home
Thursday evening, September 18th, in excellent
health and spirits, and very grateful that Sister
Eliza at eighty years of age had enjoyed the
journey so well, and had been able to speak in
every one of the sister's meetings.


ITEMS OF RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
			FERENCE.

	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, September 19, commencing
at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Opened by singing, "Let Zion in her beauty
rise." Prayer by Counselor E. S. Taylor. Sing-
ing, "O, say what is truth," etc.
	President Horne made a few opening remarks,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells read the reports from the
several branches in the city and country, also
the complete report of all, after which Mrs. Ma-
rinda N. Hyde and Mrs. Presendia E. Kimball
each made a few interesting and spiritual re-
marks. President Horne spoke to the Secreta-
ries about having correct reports in time for the
Semi-Annual Stake Conference, and stated that
Sisters E. S. Taylor and S. M. Kimball would
giver the necessary instruction on some general
meeting day to the Secretaries, to aid them in
making out their reports.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing." Prayer by
Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session opened with singing, "The
time is far spent." etc. Prayer by B. W. Smith.
Singing, "Hark, ye mortals." Mrs. M. A. E.
Watmough explained a piece of needle work she
had there on exhibition. It represented Joseph
relating his dream to his father and mother;  she
was over seventy years of age when she com-
menced it, and had worked it expressly for the
Logan Temple.
	The meeting was addressed by Mrs. B. W.
Smith, Mrs. M. E. Wilcox, Mrs. R. M. Carring-
ton and Mrs. Rebecca Jones. Each spoke a short
time giving good counsel, relating items of ex-
perience and exhorting the sisters to dilligence,
faithfulness and good works.
	Mrs. Annie T. Smoot spoke to the mothers
upon the training of children, and gave good,
sound practical advice; urged them to send the
children to the Primary.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some very pertinent
remarks, and spoke of the conference she had
attended a few days before in Ogden, and said a
great many bishops attended it, the President
of the Stake and many other brethren; there


was a large attendance of people. Mr. and Mrs.
Bancroft and Miss Bancroft of San Francisco
were present, and in the afternoon the Baptist
minister of Ogden was in the congregation.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few remarks, gave a
brief sketch of the visit she had recently made
with Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Sister M. W.
Snow and Sister M. A. Hyde through Sanpete
Stake.
	Dr. Ellen B. Fergueon bore her testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, and spoke of the great
work to be done in temples, and the need of
careful preparation for that work; alluded to her
being the only representative in the Church of
her family, and her desire to be faithful and
worthy.
	Mrs. M. L. Morris spoke a few minutes--re-
ferred to what Dr. Ferguson had said, and en-
dorsed all that had been said.
	Mrs. H. T. King made some very interesting
remarks upon society, refinement and perfec-
tion. Mrs. Diana Reid bore a faithful testimony.
President Horne made concluding remarks. Re-
ferred to the different subjects the sisters had
spoken upon, and particularly exhorted mothers
in regard to teaching their children truthfulness,
honesty and obedience.
	Prest. Horne proposed that Mrs. Maria W.
Wilcox, who holds the position of Cor. Sec., be
appointed also Assistant Secretary. The mo-
tion was put and the vote was unanimous. Mrs.
Elizabeth Stayner was proposed as Recording
Secretary for the Relief Society of this Stake,
and was sustained by the conference to fill that
office. Mrs. M. A. E  Watmough made a few
remarks upon the government of children.
Singing Doxology, conference adjourned until
December. Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
				______
	Y. L. QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

	Saturday, September 20, the young ladies'
conference was held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, commencing at 2 p.m, Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. Opened by singing, "Joy to
the world." Prayer by Mrs. H. T. King. Sing-
ing, "We're not ashamed to own our Lord."
Minutes and reports were read and approved,
after which Prest. Freeze presented the resigna-
tion of her Counselor, Louie B. Felt. Said it
had taken her so by surprise she could not
choose a counselor until the Spirit of the Lord
dictated her in choosing one. Made some very
good remarks in regard to the duties of the
members, and gave much sound advice, es-
pecially with reference to the sisters visiting the
emigrant Saints after they arrive in Zion.
	Mrs. King addressed the meeting, her subject
was politeness and refinement of manner, love
for each other and integrity to the principles
of the Gospel.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp spoke of the best deport-
ment and example being most necessary in our
own homes; that if one were ill-natured the
Spirit of the Lord would not abide in the heart.
Thought fault finding ought to be wholly dis-
continued, and added, "Tearing down others
would never build us up."
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards made some interesting
remark upon the performance of duties, and
referred to the young mothers who had the
courage to come to meeting and bring their
babies with them. Spoke of her timidity in
standing up to speak in public.
	Miss Nellie Colebrook spoke upon humility
and the foolishness of pride, the value of time,
the cultivation of talents and the reading of
good books.
	Dr. Ellis Shipp spoke upon the blessing of at-
tending these meetings, and said, wealth and
power are great, but love is greater; love is God
like, "and a mild answer turneth away wrath.'
	Prest. Freeze made some very interesting re-
marks upon testimony, and said she had found
those who were willing to accept celestial mar-
riage were the young girls who were faithful in
attending these meetings; "The checked the
stream or stood in the way of the influence of
infidelity, which seemed to be rising and in-
creasing." Advised the officers to hold annual
meetings and invite visitors; gave other good ad-
vice. Mrs. Watmough introduced a book en-
titled "For Girls," suitable for young women,
and gave good advice.
	Conference adjourned for three months.  Choir
sang Doxology. Prayer by Dr. Maggie B.
Shipp.
				______

		Y. L. M. I. A. DAVIS STAKE.

	We had the pleasure of attending the Quarter-
ly Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of Davis Stake,
held at Kaysville meeting house, Sunday, Sep.
28th, 1884. Meeting convened at half past
eleven a.m., in order not to interfere with Sab-
bath School, Supt. Anson V. Call presiding.
Prest. Wilford Woodruff and Elder Junius F.
Wells, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Dr. Romania B.
Pratt of this city, were present by invitation.
After the usual exercises and reading of min-
utes of previous conference, the early part of the
morning session was occupied in hearing verbal
reports from the several superintendents of the
Young Ladies' Associations, as follows: Mrs.
Josephine Wood, South Bountiful; Mrs. Jane
Holt, East Bountiful; Mrs. Mary R. Woolley,
Centerville; Miss Ethalie Miller, Farmington;
Mrs. Sarah A. Sheffield, Kaysville; Mrs. Martha
T. Hammond, South Hooper. These young
ladies gave very good reports of the condition of
their respective associations, and in a very
pleasing and creditable manner, expressing their
willingness to labor for the mutual good of all.
	Miss E. W. Smith, who presides over the Y.
L. M. I. A. of that Stake, made a few very ap-
propriate and suggestive remarks in a very
happy manner, and alluded to her great desire
to promote the best good of the young ladies
associated with her in the work of improve-
ment.
	Elder Wells then gave a short but very in-
teresting discourse, principally upon the benefits
and good results of these associations in prepar-
ing the youth of Zion to assist in building up
the Kingdom of God and proclaiming the Gos-
pel to the nations, and was followed by Elder B.
H. Roberts, who delivered an eloquent discourse,
speaking first of the opinion the world entertain
in regard to Mormonism flourishing upon igno-
rance, and the necessity of becoming intelligent,
in order to comprehend the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. Alluded to what is termed the conflict
between science and religion, and gave Scriptur-
al authority to substantiate his statements.
	In the afternoon after singing, prayer and
singing, the sacrament was administered and
the general and local authorities of the Y. M.
and Y. L. M. I. A. were presented and voted
upon.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells and Dr. Romania B. Pratt
each occupied a short time in speaking to the
young people, and President Wilford Woodruff
preached a very impressive sermon, calculated
to arouse the young to the importance of the
position they occupy in the Church, and inspire
them with zeal and energy in carrying out in
their lives the good teachings and instructions
they are constantly receiving. Urged them to
study and obtain knowledge, wisdom and under-
standing, to cultivate the Spirit of God and pre-
pare themselves to assist in the redemption and
gathering of Israel, and alluded to the vast mag-
nitude of the work yet to be done in temples for
the living and for the dead.
	The conference was numerouslly attended by
the young people of that Stake, and an excellent
spirit was manifested by all who too part in the
proceedings. Conference was adjourned for
three months, to be held at East Bountiful.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS
	We regret not b[-]ing able to continue the pen
sketches of Presendia L. Kimball and Patty Ses-
sions in this number on account of space.
	"Why We Practic[-] Plural Marriage" is the
telling title of a book by Helen Mar Whitney.
It contains many plain facts bearing upon the
subject as well as personal incidents and expe-
riences: and cannot fail to do good and will re-
move some prejudice.  We recommend it as being
well worth the price 25 ets., and believe it willnot
only give a correct idea of the principle of plu-
ral marriage to the stranger, but will also be a
good book to put into the hands of our young
people.  It is very well written and the typo-
graphical work is in the usual plain clear and
neat style of the Juvenile Instructer Office.
The bo[-]k can be purchased there, or at this
office, or at Mrs. Whitney's own house on the
north side of the Tithing Office Block facing
City Creek.
	Our readers will observe that this issue con-
tains two notices of classes in ob[-]tetrics, to
commence in this city shortly after conference.
It is to be hoped that those living in the country
towns and places will take advantage of these
excellent opportunities now afforded them of ob-
taining a knowledge of midwifery, that there
may be no lack whatever of skilled help in all
the places where there is need of such help.
	It is  painful fact that there is not competent
help of this kind in many localities where is is
needed.  Young women should enter this pro-
fession, and study with a view to do good to
their own sex, and thus benefit mankind.  It is
one of the most honorable professions in the
world, and one in which the greatest good can be
done. There can be nothing more desirable
to the human heart than to relieve suffering.
Dr. Pratt and Dr. Shipp have each of them
taken great pains to make themselves proficient
in medicine and surgery, have been diligent
and persevering notwithstanding adverse cir-
cumstances and difficulties to contend with have
been determined to succeed, and have accom-
plished a good work in this direction.
	These ladies are both graduates of the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia, and
are fully qualified to teach as well as practice.
They  had excellent success in teaching
heretofore, are very thorough in their work and
simplify to the understanding.
	A new book of nearly 600 pages and hand-
somely bound, recently published by the
Deseret News Company is entitled "Biography
Autobiography and Family Record of Lorenzo
Snow."  This book is from the gifted pen of
Eliza R. S. Smith, sister of the Apostle whose
record she has so ably written.  The book con-
tains steel engravings of Eliza and Lorenzo, the
author and the Apostle, also several of his dis-
courses and letters, and some of the b[--]t of Sis-
ter Eliza's poems. On[-] never before published
is an address to her brother and family on the
occasion of a grand reunion and anniversary
celebration, on the 7th, 8th and 9th of May last.
To make a complete notice of this book would
require more time to read it than we have yet
given to it, but hastily glancing over it, it seems
the most elaborate and perfect book of the kind
we have ever seen, and must be a great satisfac-
tion to the family.  The author says the book
"has been written as a tribute of sisterly affec-
tion, and as a token of sincere respect to his
family," and certainly it is a worthy and beau-
tiful tribute.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER OP CONDOLENCE.
Pima, Graham Co., A. T., Sep. 15,1881.
DEAR SISTER CONDOR:
	We, the undersigned, having heard of your
reat affliction and sorrow in the wound you re-
ceived and the loss of your two sons, who were
assassinated by a ruthless mob before your own
eyes, to say that we truly sympathize and con-
dole with you does not begin to express our
thoughts and feelings. Our prayers ascend for
you, dear sister, that God will console and com-
[-]ort you in this most sore and bitter ordeal that
has come upon you for presuming to worship
God according to the dictates of your own con-
science. Can it be possible that in this boasted
land of Liberty such high handed murder
will be tolerated? Dear lady, the Constitution
so dear and sacred to every true lover of liberty
has been violated, and the escutcheon of our
once free and happy country stained with the
blood of martyrs for the truth of God, and if
there is no justice granted you in the land of
your birth, appeal your case to the Courts above;
there you will receive retribution upon the
heads of those who have so cruelly pierced
your bleeding heart with wounds that cannot
be healed.
	Dear Sister Condor, we wish you to know and
the world to know, and ask angels to bear re-
cord on earth and in heaven, that we solemnly
protest and condemn such lawless outrage and
cold blooded murder as was committed upon
Elders Gibbs and Berry and the Condor family.
Yes, dear lady, in this proud nation where the
dear old flag still waves as a beacon light to all
nations to come to the “land of the free,” where
the Constitution, if held inviolate, will never
permit any outrage, or oppression upon any of
her subjects. Yes, fair Columbia has been the
mother of the oppressed of all nations. How is
if, to-day? Shall we publish it? Shall we bear
record to God, angels and patriots, who bled and
died to bequeathe to us that heaven-born boon,
liberty, that in this fair-famed, laud of freedom
the catalogue of crime is full? while the blood of
innocence cries from the ground for redress, ful-
filling the remarkable vision of the ancient
Apostle, recorded in Rev. 6th chapter, 9th and
10th verses, where he saw the souls of them
that were slain for the word of God and the tes-
timony which they held, crying under the altar,
“How long, O Lord, holy and true and right-
eous, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood
upon those who dwell upon the earth."
	May this console, you is the prayer of your de-
voted sisters, Cyrena Merrill, Mary L. Ransom,
Lucinda Gustafson,. Ruth McBride, Rhoda.E.
Foster, Josephine Rogers, Matilda Maxam,
Janetta A Ferrla, Sarah Ann Gale, Louisa
Johnson, Sarah Burns, Ellen J. Larson,
	WILLMIRTH EAST.


PRIMARY FAIR AND CONFERENCE.

 Upon entering the building where the fair
was held in Bountiful, and viewing the various
articles, useful and beautiful, made by the child-
ren of Davis County, from four to fifteen years
of age, a feeling of delighted admiration was ex-
perienced. The next thought was to wonder
how the enemies of good, works can bring their
lips and their pens to say that the children
of the Latter-day Saints are wanting in intelli-
gence, and that, they are not instructed in those
thing which will tend to develop in their na-
tures manliness and virtue, womanliness and
parity. If “idleness is the parent of vic,” in-
dustry must be its opposite. And how indus-
trious the little folks in Davis County most have,
been to have accomplished all this!
Besides a number of finished quilts, some of
them really handsome, and all good, there was a
great variety of patch-work, neatly done, mostly
by very little girls. There were infant aprons
and underclothes, made by girls very young,and
the hand sewing upon them so neat and strong,
that it seemed wonderful. Stockings, mittens,
wristlets, card cases, pin cushions, iron holders,
lace work of different kinds, shell work, carpets
and rugs, mottoes, artificial flowers, ornamental
grasses, doll dresses, drawings and colored
pictures, maps of Utah and other portions of
America, bread, butter, fruits vegetables, screen
doors, plow, upholetered sofa, forceps cut from a
single piece of wood, adobies, mats, and other
varieties of work, all done by little boys and
girls, in a style that would do credit, in many
cases, to older people.
	The two meetings held on Saturday, Septem-
ber 20th, beginning at ten a.m. and at two p.m.,
were exceedingly interesting. The programmes
were short, varied and in all respects excellent,
showing the unrivaled abilities of  the children
of Davis County and those who teach them.
Prominent among the latter are Sisters Rogers,
Hess, Dustin and Clark, and Misses Anna Clark
and Kate Chase.
	Sister Ann Dustin, President of the East
Bountiful branch of the Primary Association, is
the mother of Brother B. H. Roberts. Several
of the representative brethren of the county did
the children the honor to visit their fair and at-
tend their meeting, and to encourage them with
wise counsel and appropriate instructions More
praise is due to those brethren because of the
busy harvest time of the year in which the con-
ference was held. There was talk among the
presiding sisters of changing the time another
season.
	The only Bishop present was Brother Cheney
of Centerville. He said, in an address to the
congregation in the afternoon that he was there
because he felt that the little ones would need
looking after, that it would ba quite a labor, and
he might assist in it.
	This example might be followed by many of
our leading brethren to their own credit, and to
the good of their own families.
	Ten branches of the Primaries were repre-
sented in the fair and in the conference, viz.,
North and South Centerville, North and South
Farmington, North and South Kaysville, South
Weber, and East, West and South Bountiful.
	Brother and Sister Rampton of Bountiful,
manifested goodness of heart and kind  hospital-
ity by entertaining a number of visitors, making
them glad with good things to eat, and furnish-
ing conveyances to and from the station at
Woods Cross.
	The good order and good feeling which pre-
vailed everywhere, tended to awaken thoughts
of a most pleasing nature, while beholding such
unmistakable evidence of the progress of the
youth of Zion, and the lips are led by the heart
to say, “Our boys and glris, God Bless them!"
	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	S.K. GREENE,
	M.W. WILCOX.
	Visitors from Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
TO THE GIRLS
	My dear sisters, I take a great pleasure in
writing a few lines to you by the dictation of
the Spirit of God.  I have thought for some
time that I would like to write a few lines to
the girls, and I hope that I will write  that which will
sink deep into the hearts of the young, for I
feel that it is a very important subject to talk
upon in our meetings, and that is, Pride and
Dress and following after the style of the out-
side world, although you may think that there
[Column 2]
has been enough said on that subject.  I some-
times think that I will never say any more
about it, but it seems when I am dictated to
talk about it that it is right that we should
teach the young these things, that they may
prepare themselves for greater things, for He
has called us from Babylon that we may not
partake of her sins and share not in her
plagues; but I think, when I look around and
see the way the daughters of Zion pattern after
the world, that we are not much better, and I
know that it is grievous, in the sight of God
the way His daughters dress and spend their
time in things that are leading their minds
from that which will be of more use to them
in days to come.  I think our time is too pre-
cious to waste on these things; the Lord has
blessed us with our time to imporve every op-
portunity that we have in learning and doing
all the good we can; in learning to dress plain
and neat.  We can have nice dresses if we can
afford them without going beyond our means,
but we must use wisdom in making them neat
and plain.
	It tells us in the 3rd chapter of Isaiah that
our earrings and our bracelets and our differ-
ent suits of dresses will be taken away from us
in the last days.  Moreover the Lord saith be-
cause the daughters of Zion are haughty and
walk with stiff necks and vaunting eyes, walk-
ing and mincing as they go, the Lord says that
He will smite with a scab the crowns of the
heads of the daughters of Zion, and these will
surely come upon us if we do not take a differ-
ent course.  There are some of our older sis-
ters who are placed to teach us that do not set
very good examples before the young.  I think
we as presidents and counselors should set pat-
terns before the young that we would not be
ashamed of, and that we could talk to them on
things that we are not guilty of ourselves, and
then it will do more good.
	You must excuse me for taking this privi-
lege of writing to the EXPONENT for the first
time, wishing you success in your interesting
and valuable paper.
		H. M. K.
RELIEF SOCIETY FAIR AT COAL
	VILLE
On the 7th of August and the three follow-
ing days, a ladies fair was held in the Relief
Society's store, Caolville. under the manage-
ment of the Relief, Young Ladies and Pri-
mary Associations of Summit Stake.  The
proceeds thereof to be used for the purpose of
purchasing glass for the new stake meeting
house now in course of erection at Coalville.
	The opening ceremonies were conducted by
Prest. W. W. Cluff, who in a short and appro-
priate speech stated the objects of the fair, and
complimented the sisters upon the display of
articles before them, which, he said, evinced
great taste, skill and ability on the part of the
donors.
	The management of the fair was under the
immediate direction of the Stake Presidency
of the three associations, the tact and ability
with which it was conducted was shown in the
fact that at the close of the fair not a single
article remained unsold.
	At the inception o[-] the project it was thought
that if the sum of five hundred dollars could
be realized the originators would be satisfied;
the interest and zeal that was shown by all the
ladies interested in the project is forcibly shown
when the net proceeds exceed the contemplat-
ed amount of seven hundred dollars, the sum
actually realized being over twelve hundred
dollars.
	Great credit is due all the associations of
the Stake for the liberality of their contribu-
tions and for the interest manifested to make
the affair a success.  Many articles of great


merit were contributed, in fact too numerous
to draw special attention to. The array of
hand made bed quilts was simply immense;
consisting of every kind, style and pattern,
many of which must have taken weeks of pa-
tient application to make. The various kinds
of needle, crochet and knitting work; fancy
cushions, wax flowers and fruits, hearth rugs,
tidies, infant's dresses, and other useful articles
were well and creditably represented, and the
admiration which many of the articles elicited
cannot be otherwise than pleasing to those
whose interest and sympathies in and for the
fair and its object led them to liberally donate.
	Every ward in the Stake contributed more
or less to make the undertaking a success.
	A restaurant was opened in connection with
the fair which was liberally patronized, and
satisfaction given with the excellent manner in
which the cuisine department was conducted.
	The Coalville brass band rendered excellent
service in discoursing music at intervals
throughout the fair.
	At our Stake quarterly conference held on
the Sunday followering the fair, the efforts of
the sisters and the success that attended their
labors, were spoken commendably of, and a
vote of thanks tendered, them by the confer-
ence.
	On Friday evening a grand ball was held in
the County Court House under the manage-
ment of the sisters:  which was well attended
and a most enjoyable time was had.
	The sisters are highly complimented by all
for the success that has attended their labors,
and the result in strikingly illustrative of what
can be accomplished by united effort. If the
brethren of the Stake will labor as earnestly
and zealouslly as the sisters have done, it will
not be long ere our beautiful Stake Tabernacle
will be completed, when we will then have a
commodious and suitable place to hold our
quarterly Stake conference in without a large
portion of the gatherings upon those occasions
being under the necessity of occupying "stand-
ing seats" outside the meeting house.		B.


_____________________________________________________________________________________

								WOMEN'S EXPONENT.							      

_____________________________________________________________________________________


[Column 1]
	VISIT THROUGH SEVIER STAKE.

	On the morning of the 7th of July Presi-
dent Elizabeth Bean, her counselors, Sisters
Jane Spencer and Thirza Thurber, and Sec.
C. A. Hunt, left Richfield en route for Gunni-
son, where they met Sisters M. I. Horne, Jane
S. Richards and E. S. Taylor, who had come
thus far on their way to visit Sevier Stake in
the interest of the Relief Society and Y. L. M.
I. A., and to attend their quarterly conference
at Richfield.  We spent the night at Gunnison,
where a meeting of the sisters was held, ad-
dressed by the sisters from Salt Lake, and also
from Richfield.
	The next day we took up our journey south,
visiting and holding meetings at Salina, Red-
mond and Aurora, arriving at Richfield on
the evening of the 9th.
	The next day was spent in rest, and in the
evening we attended a party gotten up by the
Presidents of the two societies, Sisters Eliza-
beth Ence and Dorcas Farnsworth.  They were
assisted by their counselors and members of
the societies and Y. L. A.  The hall was dec-
orated with evergreens, flags, banners, pictures,
etc., and presented a beautiful appearance.
Elderly persons, and those not wishing to join
in the dance, found comfortable seats on the
stand, it having been arranged for that pur-
pose, while younger persons, or any who felt
disposed, joined in the social dance.  However,
dancing was interspersed with songs, recitations
and a beautiful poem of welcome and good
wishes, addressed to the sisters of S. L., by Bro.
Wm. Morrison.
	The next morning, 11th July, the quarterly
conference convened, Prest. Elizabeth Bean

[Column 2]
presiding. Sisters Horne and Richards ad-
dressed the meeting, which was largely attend-
ed, and a spirit of thanks and rejoicing was
manifest.
	At 2 p.m. the meeting house was packed to
its utmost capacity.  Sisters Taylor and Horne
spoke to the sisters upon many subjects of in-
terest, and the Spirit of God rested upon them
to the edification of all.
	On the 12th the Y. L. and P. A. held their
conferences, which were well attended, and a
good spirit prevailed.  At 5 o'clock p.m., at a
a meeting of the Y. L. A. of Richfield, the
president having sent in a resignation, she was
released and a reorganization effected.
	Monday the journey south and east was re-
sumed, visiting and holding meetings at Cen-
tral, Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe, Annabella and
Glenwood.  At this point our party were all
very much disappointed in having to part with
Sister Taylor, who was summoned home by
telegraph on account of sickness in the fam-
ily.
	Tne next morning, the 16th, we started for
Grass Valley, arriving at Koosharem in the
afternoon, and holding two meetings.
	On the 17th proceeded to Rabbit Valley,
and from thence came to Fish Lake.
	The journey, though rough and tiresome,
was delightful to the eye. The hills and val-
leys were clothed in beautiful robes of green of
various shades, and dotted here and there with
trees and shrubbery.  The Lake is picturesque
and romantic, lying, as it does, in the tops of
the mountains, surrounded by trees and beau-
tiful, fragrant wild flowers.
	On the 19th and 20th attended the Stake
Conference of the Y. M. M. L. A.  President
Woodruff and Bro. Jos. A. West were present,
and an excellent time was enjoyed by all,there
being about 600 persons present.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting on
Saturday, the 19th, Prest. Woodruff called a
special meeting, in which he requested the sis-
ters to occupy the time.  Sisters Horne and
Richards spoke with power and eloquence, be-
ing led by the Spirit.
	Sunday evening came down to Burrville and
held meeting.
	Monday returned to Richfield, holding meet-
ing with the Primary at Glenwood as we came
through.  In all we held twenty-two meet-
ings.
	The next morning Sister Richards started
home, but Sister Horne, being ill and fatigued,
with so long and rough a journey, stayed a few
days longer to rest, and until her health should
be improved.  We all enjoyed our labors, and
felt that they had been attended with success.
	We here feel to tender our thanks to Bishop
J. L. Horne, Bros. Albert Hagley, Thomas
Butler, Jos. Parker and Thomas Ross Sen., for
furnishing conveyances for us, and their ser-
vices as teamsters, and likewise all others who
assisted or contributed to our comfort.
	Praying that God will bless all those who
labor for the welfare of Zion, we remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH BEAN, President,
			C. A. HUNT, Secretary.


A VOICE FROM MESA.
<fer;y why="" 1$'="" it,="" ;.th'at;the1="" wgrld.="" are,="" r:="" 22="" ?:&="" ,e="" ’v<="" div="">EDITOR EXPONENT:
	While sitting alone this lovely Sabbath
morning meditating upon the great and glori-
ous truths revealed in our holy religion, my
heart swells with joy and gratitude to me
Heavenly Father, that amongst the few, com-
paritively speaking, I have been the ahppy re-
cipient of the truths of the everlasting Gospel,
revealed through our beloved and martyred
Prophet, Joseph Smith, and I thought how
strange indeed--a marvelous work and a won
der. Why is it that the world are so blin


that they cannot see as we see?  But there are
none so blind as those who will not see.
	We certainly live in a great and important
age of the world, when the great preparatory
work is being performed, to prepare a people
for the great reign of rest spoken of by the
ancient and modern prophets; when Satan will
have no more power over the inhabitants of
the earth.  To accomplish this object mission-
aries are being sent to every nation under the
heavens, where they will receive them.  The
joyful tidings have gone forth that the ever-
lasting Gospel has again been restored, and the
inhabitants of the earth will have the oppor-
tunity to escape the terrible judgments and
calamities which shall immediately precede the
coming of the Savior.  This enrages Satan
and he endeavors to stir up the hearts of the
people to destroy those heralds of salvation
and mercy, who are sent among them to pro-
claim glad tidings of great joy to the sons and
daughters of men.
	How blind their eyes to the great and ster-
ling qualities of those men who go forth with
their lives in their hands, without purse or
scrip, to gather out and glean for the last time
those choice ones who are worthy of salvation.
The world do not know this people, nor do they
take much pains to find out anything in our
favor; if they did they would think differently
of us.  But what care we what their opinion is;
we are in the hands of the Lord, in Him is
our trust, and He will not fail us if we are
faithful to our duties, attend to our prayers,
and live up to every principle revealed for the
guidance of his people.  Without we do this
we have no promise of protection when times
come that shall try men’s souls.
							S. M. P.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
    I feel to take up my pen in behalf of my
Father's work upon the earth. I feel that per-
secutions are beginning towards the Saints in
order to more fully unite them. I can see the
prophecies spoken of through God's prophets
being fulfilled, and though we live far from
Utah, we in this country have perhaps as much
to contend with, with the outside world, as the
people do in Utah. There are but few Latter-
day Saints here compared with the Gentiles,
who are exerting all power possible to perse-
cute and drive from their homes the people of
God; their threats are great, but I know they
can do no more than our Heavenly Father will
allow them to do.
    In the trials I am called upon to pass through
from time to time it is an exceeding great joy
to have the privilege of reading the EXPON-
ENT, which after taking for a while I cannot
do without. I feel comfort in trials to read the
words of my sisters who have likewise these
troubles to share. Though persecutions may
rage against this people, and we may be driven
hither and thither, I know by bearing all with
patience a reward awaits the just in heaven.
    Often, as I sit in reverie alone, my mind is
brought suddenly upon the commandments of
God, wherein if obeyed, lies a full exaltation
for all who will obey them; yet how few there
are who do obey every commandment given.
Therefore, I fully realize that persecutions are
needed to unite the Saints, that they may lay
by their follies and work the works of right-
eousness.
	I was struck with sorrow in reading an ac-
count of the two Elders who were martyred in
Tennessee, and have wondered how many
would be taken away in like manner. But
how thankful we should be to God that we
have been the recipients of His holy Gospel,
instead of the persecuters of His divine work.
    There are but a few of us in this settlement


far away in Arizona, but through obedience to
our Heavenly Father we hope to be able to en-
dure all trials that we may be called upon to
take part in.
	We have exemplary women as presidents of
the different associations, and I believe their
counsel and instructions are heeded.  We are
trying to live our religion and serve God.  Fi-
nancially we are doing pretty well, considering
the circumstances of the people.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor at our
homes; it is read with pleasure always.  With
a desire to serve the Almighty in word and in
deed, I remain a helper in His work, and desire
His most holy blessings on every true Latter-
day Saint.					S. D. G.
	Omer, Arizona, August 24, 1884.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE.
	A tribute of sympathy and condolence to
President A. O. Smoot.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly
Father in His infinite wisdom to take from our
midst our beloved president, Sister Magaret T.
Smoot, and knowing that she has always given
us good counsel, exhorting us to works of
righteousness, and realizing that her record
has been that of a well spent life, worthy of
emulation,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that we as a so-
ciety, deeply sympathize with her husband,
President A. O. Smoot, and his family in their
great loss, and pray that the Spirit of God may
comfort and sustain them, knowing that our
loss is her gain, and that she has passed away
in the sure hope of a glorious resurrection;
trusting that we may live true and faithful to
our covenants, and be worthy to meet her and
enjoy her society through the endless ages of
eternity.
	MARY S. HINDLEY,
	CHARLOTTA SHELLEY,
	ALICE GREENWOOD, Committee.
	ELLEN D. CLARKE,
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
American Fork, Sep. 4, 1884.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Anne Whitney, the sculptor, whose last work
is Harriet Martineau's statue, has a farm of
one hundred and seventy-five acres, over which
the White Mountain range towers, and through
which the Androscoggin runs, and which she
farms practically.
	Mary E. Shaffer, of New York, has secured
a patent for a new "non-inductive, electric ca-
ble;" Sue E. Smither, of Keen, Ky., has pat-
eted a "check-rein hook." Both these patent
have been granted during the week ending
Spet. 9, 1881.
	Miss Florence Finch, late of the Boston
Globe, is now on the editorial staff of the Troy
Telegraph. The Telegraph is to be congratu-
lated on the accession of an able editor who
brings scholarship and editorial experience to
her new post.
	Just now in the city of Mexico the subject
of woman's industries is one of considerable
interset, and an association, of which the Sen-
ora Rafaela Suarez is President, is actively en-
gaged in collecting and preparing and exhibit of
woman's work for the New Orleans Exposi-
tion.

	Bro. L. M. Olsen has been appointed agent
for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT at Ephraim,
Sanpete Co., and Sister Caroline C. Raleigh
for Bear Lake Stake.
	In the article from Sister S. M. Burgess pub-
lished in our paper, a mistake was made in
the date of her going to Kirtland; it should
have been 1834 instead of 1837.


OBITUARY.
	DIED, at her residence, American Fork, August 24th,
1884, Margaret Cross Vowels, born at Liverpool, Eng-
land, June 15, 1810. Baptized by Elder James Wood
in the year 1847, at Hanley, Staffordshire.  Came to Salt
Lake City in 1850; was married to Brother Samuel Vow-
els July 24th, 1862, and removed to American Fork the
same year.
	She has been a faithful and efficient teacher in the
Relief Society for many years, and though she had been
ailing for a long time, her decease was very sudden, she
being in a neighbor's house the evening previous to her
death.  Many of the Relief Society assembled at her
house and followed in procession to the meeting house,
where funeral services were held.
	She leaves a husband, two sons and one daughter,
also a number of grandchildren and numerous friends
to mourn her loss.  She died as she had lived, a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint, and in the sure hope of a glorious
resurrection with the just.
						EMMA FEATHERSTONE.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
				[line break]
	The following are Resolutions of Respect to our young
and much beloved sister, Catherine Stanifird, daughter
of John H. Stanifird and Mary Argyle, born in Bounti-
ful, Davis Co., Utah.  December 3rd, 1868.  Died in
Apache Co., Arizona, August 6th, 1884.
	Whereas, God in His divine wisdom has seen proper
to call from our midst to a higher sphere, one of our
members, who was greatly beloved by us all for her
kind and gentle spirit, her pure and virtuous life, her
faithful labors in our association, and many good quali-
ties of a Saint, which she possessed, and for the love
which we have for her, and the respect for her pa
rents,
	Therefore, Be it resolved, that we, as members of the
Y. L. M. I. A., do deeply mourn the loss of our beloved
sister and co-laborer in this association, and that we
condole with her parents in thier great loss, and that we
try to live so that we will meet our dear sister in the
resurrection of the just.
	And, Be it resolved, that we present a copy of these
Resolutions to her parents, and that a copy be sent to
the EXPONENT for publication, and that they be spread
upon our record book.
				MARTHA M. PERKINS,
				LOTTIE WALKER,	Committee.
				CEDENIA WILLIS,
	Taylor, Apache Co.


[first column]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Will begin her next term in midwifery on the 14th
of October next, the first Monday after the general
Conference. Her last class was large and very satisfac-
tory in its progress, and in the result of examina-
tions.
	Dr. Shipp offers fine inducements in the way of
thorough training.  Reasonable terms and free scholar-
ships.
	Those wishing further information should communi-
cate with her by letter.

			HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When th eLdaies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
	duty to at least, give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfaction.
	MESSES: SMITH & CASSE of Salt Lake City are now
							engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If your groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE,
P.O. Box 504				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

			DAVID JAMES & CO.,
	TINNER, GAS, WATER, & STEAM FITTERS.

		Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the coutnry promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.
[second column]
				For Sale at this Office.
			BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 		-25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-	$1.00
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
			SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
						___

				Dr. Romania B. Pratt
Will open her fall class October 13th, 1881, in her
office over Godbe & Pitts' Drug Store, at 2 p.m.
	Terms five months, three lectures per week:
FEE,  $30.00.		BOOKS,  $13.50.
		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
				Z. C. M. I.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
		IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
	DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
				MENTS,
			CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
		PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
	CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
		GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
			We carry a larger and more complete
	Stock than any house in the west.

				H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
		AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
						in
	LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
		FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
			RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assortment of
			DRY GOODS.
		Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
	fant's Shoes.
				112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

FAuerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
		MILLINERY.
	Spring and Summer Goods
		AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
			CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
