Vol. 13. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1884. No. 2.


TRUST IN GOD
O God above in whom I trust
	And worship day by day
Incline thine ear and hear my woe-
	Thou art my only stay;
For friends, though counted by the score,
	Are few when sorrows come,
And though they dwell anear my door,
	As well a thousand miles from home.

"So near, and yet so far!" I've heard it oft,
	But never realized before
The truth of it, but now I know
	The deep, full meaning of the term,
O Father!  Thou whom I adore,
	And in my weak and humble way
Desire to learn to know Thee well,
	Desire to live but to obey.

They "still small voice" still speaks to me,
	And bids me in the darkest hour
Call unto Thee in Jesus name
	For comfort, and Thou hast the power
To cheer and comfort on the way
	The weary, wounded, breaking heart,
But not to take the thorns away,
	For each must bravely bear his part.

They *servant to Thy Saints hath said,
	Call on the Lord with faith in prayer;
When in thy secret closet kneel,
	Ask of thy God thy heart's desire.
Oh precious promise!  priceless boon!
	To ask of God, and He will hear.
And hearing answer to our call;
	He seems so far, and yet is near.

"Nearer, my God, to Thee," I cry,
	Nearer to Thy throne I come;
Thinner the veil that hides from me
	The glories of my futnre home;
But ere I leave this mortal sphere
	My earthly task I would complete;
Oh! give me strength, and grace, and power
	To lay my faults beneath my feet.

When foes without, and foes within
	Combine, They people to enslave,
The weakness of the flesh would cry,
	Oh, give us rest within the grave!
O Father, heal our bleeding hearts,
	Help us to praise Thee while we've breath,
Help us to nobly bear our part,
	Oh, give us liberty, or death!

Thy will, O Lord, not mine be done,
	Oh! give me strength and grace to say,
As said Thy well beloved Son,
	Upon that sad and solemn day,
When weak as other mortals are,
	In deepest anguish cried to thee,
If possible, the bitter cup,
	O Father! let it pass from me.

And though He plead in angnish sore,
	And could "command a heavenly host,"
And though He bled at every pore
	God's Son could not desert His post;
Then meekly bowed His head in prayer,
	Drank of the cup with faith divine,
Crying, they know not what they do;
	Father, forgive!  Thy will not mine.

Can we, the children of our God,
	The brothers, sisters of His son,
Do less than give our lives to Him?
	Eternal lives we then have won.
There is no "Royal road to heacen;"
	The same rough road our Brother trod
We all must tread.  No pattern's given
	Save Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
									RUTH.

June 1st, 1884.
*President W. Woodruff


ANOTHER WORD TO THE GIRLS

	The Pioche Record in commenting on the
marriage of one of our young sisters to an out-
sider, the son of an apostate Mormon, says,
"Another budding flower has been snatched
from the tentacles of the Mormon Church and
thus saved from polygamy and vice," etc. This
exulting boast of Satan gives me many serious
reflections. Truly, as President Taylor has
said, the adversary is abroad like a roaring
lion seeking to lead the children of men astray,
and this languare of the Record is only a
vaunting boast of his of a victory he
thinks he has gained, and means, in language
interpreted, one more spirit snatched from the
road that leads to eternal life, and saved from
enjoying God's promised blessings.
	Oh! what a stab this must be to the heart
of the family of this poor misguided girl, to
hear this exulting cry of Satan hurled into
their face, for they, as well as all other Latter-
day Saints, know that 'twere better, a thousand
times better, that death enter their door and
rob their household of its treasure, than that
they should be led away into the broad road
by that evil one, who is the master of lies. Thus
it has ever been since the warfare in heaven,
when he, who is now king of evil, sought for
supremacy there, and was with his followers
cast out of the presence of our Father to con-
tinue that warfare on the earth, where the more
faithful spirits have their eyes veiled with mor-
tality, that he has sought to draw after him
those spirits who, through their faithfulness,
earned the privilege of inhabiting a body on
the earth.
	When the Lord revealed His Gospel to
Joseph Smith and began to establish His
Church, then did Satan redouble his force, de-
termined not to yield the fight until every
trial had been made that it were possible for
him to make, and every advantage he can gain
on the battle ground, which is the hearts and
minds of the children of God, he will not fail
to seize upon. Then how necessary that we
who are engaged in this great and arduous
struggle against Satan, should array ourselves
in our battle garb, the Spirit of God, and lis-
ten and obey the voice of our commanders in
the field, the voice of revelation, for unless we
do this we are left to the mercy of the enemy,
as soldiers engaged in mortal combat, who
have left their commanders and thrown off
their armor and cast away their weapons, we
have no alternative but to yield to the enemy
and be bound with his chains and led away by
him into captivity, which is endless torment.
How can the Latter-day Saints excuse them-
selves who have neglected their duty in failing
to use their utmost endeavors by prayer, teach-
ing and examples to assist their children to
clothe themselves with the Spirit of God as a
protection against the adversary, and if the
children of the Latter-day Saints could realize
the price they have to pay for the pottage of
this world, no desire of Satan could tempt them
to sacrifice their rights in the Kingdom for it.
It is a grievous thing to see our young girls
led away and unite themselves in marriage
with those who are not of us. To the faithful
and God-fearing parent the death of their child
would be pleasant compared with it, for what
is death, the throwing off this mortality com-
pared with the loss of eternal life? Note the
condition in after life of the woman who casts
aside her rights to the ordinances of the priest-
 [second column]
hood, and marries only after the manner of the
world. She may, perhaps, though it is not of-
ten the case with such, be fortunate enough to
secure a husband who will care for her happi-
ness, and she may enjoy every comfort the
world affords, but when the time comes, and it
will surely come, when she realizes that to be
permitted to continue in the marriage relation,
and have an eternal increase in the Kingdom
of God is eternal life, and finds, when summon-
ed before her Father to receive her reward
for her labors on the earth, that her name is
not recorded in the great book of marriages,
and therefore she has no claim upon that bless-
ing, then, and not fully till then will she real-
ize what she has lost.
	We have heard a great deal said about the
misery the Latter-day Saints have to endure
in polygamy. Now, it is not necessary that
women should have aught but happiness in this
order, but how enviable is the position in after
life of the woman who may be even the tenth
wife of a man, and through mistakes of hers.
or his, or both, she has been obliged to spend
her earthly life in abject misery, but has stood
firm in the faith through it all, compared with
that of the woman who has not been sealed un-
to an eternal marriage. The former has her
rights and blessings recorded in the heavens,
and when she is prepared to receive them our
Father will gladly reward them to her, and she
will continue in rearing posterity in the eter-
nal worlds, while the latter must remain alone
throughout eternity, and cannot enjoy these
blessings.
	Then why should not parents grieve when
they see their children deny themselves these
blessings, and how necessary that they should
watch for and guard off every scheme of the
evil one to prevent them from acquiring them,
and further, with what earnestness should they
endeavor to carry out every principle of the
Gospel and heed every word of God given
through His servants, that they may be able
to throw a net work of righteousness around
their children in their tender years, that they
may not be enticed from the fold and forsake
their true Shepherd.				M.


NOTES AND NEWS.
In the Salem, Mass., Normal School-there is
class of girls learning carpentry.

	Helen M. Gougar addressed both branches
of the New York Legislature on the 10th of
May, by special invitation of that body.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has removed
to the old family residence, at Johnstown, N.
Y., and will make it her permanent home.

	Miss Emily Faithful is to give to the world
her impressions of America in a volume en-
itled "Three Visits to America,” now nearly
ready for the press.

	"Queen Ranavalona III, of Madagascar, is
a true Maria Theresa.  On ascending the
throne she said: “I shall prove myself a soldier,
ever ready to defend, with you, the land of our
ancestors.” This good and benevolent queen
died very recently; she had done much for the
elevation of her subjects, and excelled in all
good deeds.


_____________________________________________________________________________________


							WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
_____________________________________________________________________________________


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	This was the farewell ball which Col. Kane
so touchingly described to the "Historical So-
ciety of Pennsylvania."
	My parents and a great number were there,
both old and young, but there were also many
more who did not attend it.  There were not
horses enough for all to ride, and we being a-
mong the number who remained behind were
determined to make a party, too, and accord-
ingly the boys got a quantity of bushes and
made a bower before our tent, and commenced
dancing about noon and continued till supper
time. We then adjourned till evening. when
we met and danced till about ten o'clock, and
then dismissed, having had a good time, and
all expressing themselves satisfied with our
scene of festivity. We could furnish our own
music, and we often danced "by the light of
the moon," which was then shining upon us in
all its glory like one bright chandelier. I remem-
ber many an evening afterthe cares and bustle of
the day were over, when numbers of the youth
would gather outside the tents, and as chairs
were rare luxuries, the majority resorted to
wagon tongues, ox-yokes, provision chests and
that sort of appliances in camp life, where we
enjoyed a quiet entertainment of songs, music,
etc. Horace excelled as a flutist, and the
sweet strains that flowed soft and mellow from
his instrument was owing much to his father’s
training. When a small boy, in Kirtland, he
was presented with a fife by Orson Hyde, who
was then a clerk in his father's store, but his
incessant practice wearied his father and every
body within the hearing of it. And seeing
his determination to learn the instrument his
father bought him a flute the next time he
went to New York for goods. John F. Boyn-
ton, one of the first quorum of the twelve, who
stopped at his father's a great deal, gave him
his first lessons on the flute, and his father
would always correct him if he heard him play
otherwise than smoothly. He also possessed
an excellent voice for singing, as well as a gen-
erous supply of wit and humor, and telling
anecdotes was one of his best fortes; and there
were others of this class as well as some supe-
rior lady singers, and by this means we often
drove away, dull care and cheered the aged
and the drooping hearts, making lighter their
burdens. One of the best songs that we used
to hear was the "Jewish Maid," which one of
our girls could sing as sweetly as did Miss De-
vine at the Point, the evening before the de-
parture of the battalion boys, which was refer-
red to by the late Thomas L. Kane, but who,
it seems, was unable to obtain the song except
the following lines, which he gives as "a ver-
sion of the text touching to all earthly wander-
ers."
	"By the rivers of Babylon we sat down and wept,
		We wept when we remembered Zion."
	Bro. John Kay was the first to introduce
this song to us in Nauvoo, but the chorus was
changed, and instead of singing
	"No more shall the children of Judah sing,"
it was
	"Again shall the children of Judah
		Sing the lays of a happy time."
This was sung according to the faith of the
Saints, who did not weep when they "remem
bered Zion," for Zion they had brought with
them.
	The same day that we held our festival we
were visited by two men from the village, who
came on horseback, their names being Beach
and Harding. They were old residents there.
Mr. Beach informed us that the name of the
creek in that vicinity was "Butterfly."
	The day following the folks returned home
and brought the news that four companies
started from the village that day, and the fifth
was to start on the morrow. It is not pleasant
to dwell on the dark side, nor is it my inten-
tion now to rehearse the scenes or sorrow and ad-
ditional suffering of wives and children, which
was forced upon them by the cruel requisition
made upon our people at that time by this gov-
ernment, after suffering us to be ruthlessly
driven out from their midst, I will only men-
tion the case of Sister Ed. Martin, which may
illustrate the pitiful condition under which
many more were left with families.
	Brother Martin had just buried a new born
infant, and left his wife sick, not knowing who
was to take care of her, and there was no time
to make any arrangement for her comfort, and
they had to leave all in the hands of God and
their friends. And who are more capable of
singing and sensing the full meaning of the
sweet and touching song,
	"Hard times, hard times come again no more"
than the ones who remember those gloomy
days and scenes of want and suffering that
were experienced by the Saints who were left
in Winter Quarters.
	The following is from my husband's jour-
nal. 
	"Wednesday, 22nd	Rained a little this
morning.		*	*	Continued storming
throught the day.  I went ahead on the road
about a mile to watch the Indian cornfields,
lest the cattle shall break into them. These
are to be found on either side of the Butter-
fly Creek for some distance up and down that
stream. In the making of these fields they
have not used the plough, but selecting the
softest ground, which is to be found on the
margin of these streams, with little or no sod.
They have simply cut down the weeds with their
hoes, and then put in their corn. In this way
they leave it, giving it no farther attention till
they are ready to harvest it, or rather when
they return from their hunting expeditions they
resort to their fields for roasting ears, which
they are very fond of. If any is left after that
they bury it deep in the ground, where it re-
mains during the winter. I had considerable
difficulty in keeping the cattle away from the
fields.	*	*	*	Quite a number of
teams from Brigham's camp as well as our
own, started to-day, and I had all I could do
to keep the cattle of our camp from crossing
the creek and following them off.
	"About noon Bro's B. Young and Kimball
and Dr. Richards passed by me in a carriage
on the way to the Elk Horn,	*	*	in
order to survey the face of the country."
Those six men who had been sent up the Mis-
souri River to "select a location returned, and
reported that they had been some distance up
the river, but had been entirely unsuccessful
in finding a suitable place to winter, the coun-
try being no more favorable for that purpose
than the place where we now are. According-
ly, Brigham advised the brethren in  council
on Monday last, at the Bluffs, to disperse
themselves among the hills and bottoms and
remain there this winter.
	While out to-day I set my hook and line
and caught six very fine cat-fish, one of which
weighed four or five pounds.	*	*	*
Bro. Kimball exchanged his horse, Charley,
for one yoke of oxen, a cow and heifer, and
another old horse for another yoke of oxen.
To-day Hans was fitted out with a wagon and
team to accompany his father-in-law over the
mountains."
	"This company started the next day, but
coming to the creek they were obliged to build
a bridge before crossing, the late rain having
considerably swollen the stream--consequently
had to camp.	*	*	*	Bro. Kim-
ball and Brigham returned to-day from the
Elk Horn.	*	*	Just as Bro Kimball
arrived Bro's Woodruff, Taylor, Little and
Horne came here in pursuance to previous ar-
rangement to hold council. They remained
with us all night. Bro. Kimball rode over to
the creek to organize that company before they
go on. He appointed Hiram Clark captain of
fifty, and Bro. A Billings and N. B. Barthol-
omew as his counselors. We hear that a num-
ber of Indians rode over to look at their corn
this afternoon, and on discovering it to be trod-
den down by the cattle, were very angry; and
for fear that they might retaliate by taking
some of our cattle every man in the camp was
ordered out to assist in driving in the cattle
and yoking them up, which was done."
	On the morning of the 24th the Twelve and
Bp. Whitney met in council pursuant to ap-
pointment. Father sent most of the camp a-
head that day, in order to build a bridge over
the Elk Horn, this being one of the objects of
the council. Horace says:
	"Today our cattle remain yoked, and two
men are sent out to herd them. I went myself
on that duty this afternoon--the bridge they
have built is a very good one--but three or
four families remain besides Bro. Kimball’s
and father’s”
	The next day being July 25th, Horace
wrote:
	This being the 23rd anniversary of my birth-
day mother, Sarah Ann and Orson took sup-
per with us at Bro Kimball's tent. To-day
Bro. Orson Hyde moved back over the river,
where he intends to leave his family till his
return from England, whither he is immediate-
ly going with Bros. Parley P. Pratt and John
Taylor.  Bro. Woodruff is about moving over 
this side of the Missouri River.	*	*	
About eleven oclock at night it commenced
raining and continued about half an hour ac-
companied by considerable thunder and light-
ening. We hear that one of the soldiers breth-
ren has died since their departure from the.
village. He is said to be the son of the late
General Dunham, of the Nauvoo police, who
died about a year ago, while on a mission a-
mong the Indians."
	"Saturday, 26th. Fair weather--Bro. kim-
ball and father sent four yoke of oxen each to
the river to assist Bro. Woodruff up. Bro.
Coolidge with his omnibus came in the after-
noon, Bro. Hosea Cushing driving it for him,
he being quite sick at this time. Wm. Kimball
and some of the rest of the boys got back from
the river, where they went this afternoon,
about two o'clock in the morning, bringing up
the remainder of Bro. Coolidge's wagons.
Bro. Brigham, Kimball and father went over
the river to-day.	*	*	Bro. Harrison
Burges took the lead of a meeting which was
held here to-day under our bower in front of
the tent, by Bro. Kimball's request."


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
				____

	Humility is the source of all true greatness:
pride is ever impatient, ready to be offended.
He who thinks nothing is due to him, never
thinks himself ill-treated: true meekness is not
mere temperament, for this is only softness or
weakness.—Fenelon.
	In counteracting onr defects, we should be
cautious not to blunder by imitation of others.
We,should search till we find where our char-
acter fails, and then amend it—not attempt to
become another man.—Cecil.
	He who directs his life well, understands the
best sort of grammar. To speak from the
heart and tell the truth, is very good logic,and
will serve very well for rhetoric also.  He who
runs up a score of good actions, succeeds well
in arithmetic, and the man whose life is starry
with virtues is a famous astronomer.  This is
the kind of education all people ought to
have.—From a German Writer of the 13th
century.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HELEN AND VIRGINIA. 
[Continued from “Honora to her babe,”]
The words died down upon her lips,
And bending o’er her lovely child
She crashed back to her swelling heart
	The tortured thoughts that fiercely rose;
For thee—lest heart and brain grow wild—
Thy mother braves and bears her woes.

But he the faithless, falthlef s twice—  
To marriage vows and guilty pledge,
Palling of sin’s love lightly won
And piqued by virtue’s calm, pure face,
Turned towards Virginia as the one
Prize in his life’s impetuous race.

And while Honora statue like
Sat in sad reverie alone,
He entered with a king’s own mien,
	The room where fair Virginia wrought,
His own impassioned love made known,
	And boon of faintest hope besought.

Not e'en her pure reply could win
The wanderer from his false path;
Defeat brought not repentant shame
And lofty purpose to his soul,
He turned in hate and sudden wrath
	From her his guile could not control

"Honora, hear! we go this day*
Out from this place; it matters not
Our destination, or the cause.
You cannot leave Virginia? She.
lias grown so dear nnto you? 'What!
She has grown hateful unto me."

Amazed, Honora helpless gazed
Into a future blank and cold;
Past griefs like broken arrows laid
	Beneath her feet, nor had she known
How like a warm and sheltering fold
	This young girl’s soul ’round hers had grown

"Virginia, fold those robes away—
Signora will not sing to-night:
Attend her summons, ’tis the last
	Deed thou wilt ever render her;
Vain, boasting nature! thou hast sapped
Thy walls that all too feeble were!"

Calmly Virginia rose and went
Where mute Honora bowed her head;
The gems and robes she laid away;
	The travelling robes laid out with care;
Questions and answers both unsaid— 
Yet each heart guessed the secret there.

"Farewell? Virginia, teach my heart :
Thy gift of strength, of hope so strong—
Since here I met thee, thou hast been
My inspiration and my staff;
Hence, on life’s stream I float along,
'Neath changeful skies, on drifting raft."

"The Source that dowered thee with gift
Of matchless voice, extends as sure
Its strength and balm secure for thee;
Thy fears, thy grief, thy tears restrain,
A certain faith my heart assures,
Signora, we shall meet again.”
*    *    *    *    * 
Paler, within her now found home,
Virginia bends her task above;
Her earnest thoughts are far away
With wronged Honora’s destiny;
Her gifts, her grand, pure soul, her love,
	A slave 'neath splendor's livery.

In this fair home peace seemed to smile;
A husband gen’rous, noble, good,
A wife fair as th e tend’rest flower,
And free from care or cold restraint.
Here gifts and grace of womanhood
Might bloom ’neath its protecting power.

Here evening after evening found
Virginia with them ns their own;
Their only child drew close to her,
	For his lair, mother lightly wore
The sacred charm by mothers known; 
She was good to him, nothing more.

Her boy had never climbed her knee.
And rocked to sleep upon her breast,
She gave him all that money buys,
	And always kissed the child, good night,
A servant's hands did all the rest—
So he was healthy all was right.

'Twas strange that what he ne’er had known—
Love deeper than a servant’s care—  
His spirit recognized, and reached
With answering clasp Virginia’s love; 
And she fulfilled her mission there,
As charged upon her from above.

The father's face wore grateful smile
To greet his boy when evening came,
So that he gave them no annoy
The mother cared not if he stayed;
	And he by this girl's arms caressed
Shared gentle pleasures none might blame;
Then wearied sank to slumber's rest.

Oft times gay friends brought pleasures new,
And mirth and music filled the air,
And even through the chaugiug scenes
Virginia, faithful, calm and sweet,
Kept ’rouud him still her gentle care,
Striving to make his life complete.

As, 'neath the waters calm and clear
Of some fair lakes, strong springs uprise
Far in their depths, and are their life;
	So, in her hidden nature rose
A change e’en she scarce realized;
So gently to her heart disclosed.

And yet not strange to natures pure,
Unpruned, by errors vain conceit
That clips the spirit here and there
And mutilates with impious hand
The human that God made complete— 
Nature’s true woman or true man.

'Twas mother-love. So strong it grew
It filled the heart else cold and lone,
Yet like a thirst unsatisfied
	That ever pleads, the thought would come
To her own heart, to none else known,
For mysteries are ever dumb,

"Why was I born with hopes that build
Home castles fair ’gainst ev’ry storm,
With cheerful hearth and I its qeeen?
Why was I born a woman?  Why
With woman’s nrms and bosom warm,
	If therein never my child shall lie?

"Read me of homily of fate
Decreeing hunger to the soul
While others feast and wantons waste;
'Tis man, not God who has denied
An equal justice to the whole,
And famished nature e'en deride.

"Truth, reason, teach me still to trust
God’s justice and His power sure
To lead the faltering feet through paths
Where from His own great treasury
Each shall his rightful gift secure,
Nor doubt, nor wrong, nor grief shall be.


PETITION TO DISFRANCHISE 
WOMEN.

	The Boston Woman's Journal of May 27th
contains in its editorial columns an article re-
ferring to the petition of Mrs. A. G. Paddock,
of this city, for the disfranchisement of
the women of Utah. Mrs. Paddock explains
to them that the committee who have prepared
the petition are all of them suffragists, but
adds, "The entire Gentile population, both men
and women, are willing to be disfranchised,
and to have the Territory governed by a
commission.”
	But it appears Mrs. Paddock "reckoned with-
out her host," for the Journal of June 5th,
contains a letter from Mrs. Sarah A. Cooke,
who signs herself President of the Anti Poly-
gamy Society, in which she says: “Go away
from home to hear the news," and adds, "I certain-
ly have not learned anything here of that pet-
ition. I have repeatedly expressed the opi-
nion that it would be unjust to disfranchise women
and not the men. Under the commis-
sioners, the men who are or have been in poly-
gamy are disfranchised."


Now with all due deference to those who do
not throughly comprehend how far this reaches,
or how distinctive the disfranchisement is by
the Edmunds law, as administered by the com-
missioners, allow one who knows to explain that
not only all men who have been polygamists at
any time (in the marriage relation), but all
women who have at any time lived in the order,.
of plural marriage, are also, disfranchised
indiscriminately, whether before the law of
1862, or since, it matters not; women whose
husbands died previous to 1862, and who were
not only American citizens in their own right,
but were first wives, have been refused to regis-
ter, on the same grounds as those living in the
practice of plural marriage at- the present time.
If this is not an exposte facto law what is it?
	However, one thing is evident, that Mrs.
Paddock and the Anti-Polygamy Society do
not agree in their policy in reference to the
women of Utah.  Mrs. Jennie B. Froseith also
protests against the disfranchisement of the
women of Utah, both Mormon and Gentile a-
like.
	The Woman’s Journal in its editorial re-
marks, “The male population of Utah is over-
whelmingly Mormon- We can inform the
Journal that the women of Utah are “over
whelmingly Mormon.”  That Mormon Women
in point of number as well as influence are a
power in the Church, and are women of intel-
ligence, notwithstanding the Journal calls
them “dupes and slaves.” The Gentile women
numerically are a very smail proportion indeed
and there are still plenty of “Mormon” women
who can take the oath administered before re-
gistering, and though most offensive and ob-
noxious to a pure minded woman, yet for duty’s
sake they comply with the regulations of the
commissioners,that the rights they inherit may
not all be wrested from the people who have
made the country, and who by their very acts
prove their loyalty to the government, against
which they are said to be rebellious and defiant.
Knowing, too, that there are women of another
class who take this same oath, and can do so
with impunity because it includes the very
comprehensive term (in the marriage relations.)
						E. B. W.


Better to be in shame now than at the day
of judgment.--Mohammed.
	Miss Maud Howe has become art critic of
one of the Boston papers.  She is author of
“The San Rosario Ranch,” just published by
Roberts Brothers.
	Nova Scotia has followed the example of
Ontario, and enacted a law giving municipal
suffrage to unmarried women and widows on
the same terms as men.
	The British House of Commons has passed
a bill to allow a man to marry his deceased
wife’s sister, but refuses to allow a woman to
marry her deceased husband’s brother.  One
is declared right, the other “disgusting.” There
must be brains in the House of Commons about
equal to those in the House of Congress of the
United States.--Our Herald, Ind.
	Mme Kowalewsky, a Russian lady, now oc-
cupies the chair of mathematics in the Free
University of Stockholm.  Dagens Nyheter, or
the Daily News of Stockholm, wonders that
Mme Kowalewsky's professorship has not ex-
cited general attention but adds that the Uni-
versity  of Stockholm being a new institution,
is not suspected of being a rival of Upsala-
and Lund the other universities of Sweden.

	One of the suffrage workers remarks of a
lady he is an active member of fourteen so-
cieties: "If a woman can do all this, and yet
attend faithfully to her home, surely women
caff cast an intelligent ballot without failing
in her home duties.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -    -	Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: no copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman's Exponent
						Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, - JUNE 15, 1884.


(Column One)
		﻿SOME POLITICAL MATTERS.
	Republican delegates from all parts of the
Union assembled in a national convention in the
city of Chicago, on June 2d, and with the grand
ceremonials pertaining to these important as-
semblages held the usual session for preparatory
work previous to the Presidential election.
Speeches on various subjects by some of the
most able men of the party were made in the
interest of the cause at  stake, or the man to be
nominated as candidate, and a platform of reso-
lutions prepared by a learned and august commit
tee were read, discussed, and adopted. Some of
these resolutions were good enough, and would,
perhaps, if carried out, better the condition of
the people of the United States, while others
were superfluous. The one touching the Mor-
mon question was simply a ridiculous farce, only
strung together for effect, because it has become
quite the thing to introduce anti-Mormon meas-
ures whenever there is a convention or confer-
ence, whether religious, political, or education- 
al; no matter where, or upon what account con-
vened; the Mormons cannot be let alone, but
must come in for abuse or proposals for special
legislation or both.
	It does seem absurd that in a great and grow-
ing nation like that of America so much should
be feared from a mere handful of “ignorant, de-
graded and unpopular people.” What can it
mean? The answer is plain enough; it means
persecution for one’s religion in a land of boast-
ed freedom and pretended religious liberty.
Such movements are not at all surprising from
those who have come here and have sought to
rob this people of every right and privilege
pertaining to the liberty of citizenship, be-
cause they have a special object in view; the po-
sitions of emolument and trust in the prosper-
ous and flourishing Territory which Mormon
diligence and energy has wrested from a barren
wilderness; but what possible good can accrue to
the American people at large, by denouncing
the Mormons in all their natural and public
gatherings?
	The Congress of the United States have
passed laws which are certainly sufficiently dis-
tinctive for the Mormons, and men have been
sent into Utah to see that these same laws are
properly enforced and the Courts of Judiciary
are enjoined to make these peculiar laws effec-
tive; and assuredly there can be no ground for
complaint against the persons employed in the
departments of active, executive work, for from
the commissioners, the Governor, and the Pros'
ecuting Attorney down through all the compli-
cated machinery set in motion to vindicate the
dignity of the Edmunds and Poland bill, there
is not, we feel positive, a single officer, however
lowly his station, but has sought with zeal and
(Column Two)
ardor “worthy a better cause,” to see that every
Mormon, man, woman and child, obeyed the
law in its strictest sense.
	Then when such stringent measures are used,
what need is there of further resolves? What
occasion for still more oppressive laws? To sat-
isfy the clamor of men seeking political power
at whatever cost, who will condescend to almost
anything in order to obtain popularity which
will help them on the road to success. “How
have the mighty fallen!" when one contrast
such pigmies with the grand and colossal men
who once filled the halls of the American Con-
gress. But the man nominated by he Repub-
lican party, the Hon. James G. Blaine, is mag-
nanimous enough surely to ignore such senti-
ments as those expressed In the Chicago Con-
vention in the Anti-Mormon resolution. Why
do the Mormons need to be governed by a Legis-
lative Commission? Have they refused to com-
ply with the Edmunds law or any other law,
however unjust or unconstitutional they may
deem it. No, they have not! And wherever
there is the least suspicion of any departure
from the law in its most literal sense, the mar-
shal and his deputies are immediately empow-
ered to bring the erring to justice and most strin-
gent measures possible in a free country are
brought to bear upon the person, no matter of
what sex, to make him or her testify in the
case.
	The Democratic Convention held here in the
City not only resolve against Mormons, but are
also silly enough to resolve that the Delegate
from Utah, the Hon. John T. Caine, is not a
Democrat. As if all Democrats were to be
judged by their standard; it is well known that
there is more than one kind of D[-]moc[-]a[-]s,
whether John T. Caine is or is not a Democrat
according to their half bushel measure. There
are Gentiles in this city who call themselves
war Democrats who hold very different views on
several important subjects to others of the so-
called Democratic party.
	The Democrats in the various States
are making preparations for their National
Convention which is to be held in Chi-
cago soon, and no doubt will be a tremendous
effort on the part of the party to put forth a
strong man and one who is a bona fide, staunch
democrat of some pronounced character, such as
Tilden, who now refuses to be brought forward
as a candidate.
	Perhaps Thurman is the best choice the party
could make, if we were to venture an opinion,
we would say Thurman, and being from Ohio
would be very much in his favor, for either the
fates favor Ohio,or there is some special magnet-
ism there, at least one might be pardoned for
thinking so.
	Whether the Republicans or Democrats carry
the next election it will doubtless make little dif-
ference to the majority of the people here, for
both parties have shown themselves equally the
enemies of the Latter-day Saints in the history
of the past. The genius of the American gov-
ernment is to protect the weak against the
strong, to maintain the rights of the minority
and to defend the oppressed. The forefathers,to
whom the American people point with laudable
pride, acted upon this humane and philanthrop-
ical principle; why do not their sons continue in
a course which gave to these noble patriots such
honor and distinction?
	But then the world has progressed since that
time, and it would not do for these highly en-
lightened nineteenth century statesmen to go
back to first principles. What will the end be one
cannot help querying when monopolies rule
when the strong persist in oppressing the weak,,
when riches are power, and votes can be bought
with money, to what will it eventually tend and
(Column three)
from whence shall relief come. The Republi-
cans say they can carry the nation safe through
all difficulties, the Democrats think they could
revolutionize the affairs of the Republic, the
Greenbackers and Prohibitionists have their pet
schemes; and the suffrage women have some
opinions in reference to the great matters at
stake, and believe woman with man might help
“to steady the ark” more effectually, and it is
not difficult in the midst of so much confusion
to prophecy that there is a time coming when
state will be divided against state, and city
against city, and when the sayings of ancient
and modern prophets in regard to these and oth-
er matters will be fulfilled.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society of Weber Stake will hold
a Quarterly Conference in the Ogden Taberna-
cle on the 20th and 21st of this month. A gen-
eral invitation is given in the Ogden Herald,
which also states visitors are expected fom Salt
Lake City to attend.

	ON Wednesday, June 11, Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. S. Taylor, and Loui[-] Felt left the City for a
tour through Millard Stake, expecting to hold
two or more meetings in each settlement, the
first meeting to be held at Leamington the
evening of their arrival. They will likely re-
main away about twelve days.

	WE most gratefully acknoweledge the favor
of flowers and fruit given by the Ladies of the
Flower Mission on the 9th of June to each of
the patients of the Deseret Hospital. Mrs.
Spurlock, who is a most active and efficient
worker in this labor of love, is a very sweet and
interesting woman, and also a diligent and faith-
ful missionary in the temperance cause.
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.

	THE Quarterly Conference of Relief Society,
Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations of this
Stake of Zion will be held on Friday and Satur-
day, June 27 and 28, commencing at 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. The Relief Society will hold their meet-
ings Friday in the 14th Ward, and if the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary hold their meetings else-
where due notice will be given through the dai-
ly papers.

	DESERET HOSPITAL.—We beg leave to inform
the members of the Deseret Hospital Associa-
tion, that this is the commencement of the
third year; those who have not paid the annual
fee for 1883, will please forward one dollar each
as soon as possible.
	At the organization, it was arranged that the
initiation fees be paid yearly in advance, the
membership fee is now due, and we can assure
the members the money will be very accepta-
ble.
	A number of gentlemen have expressed a
wish to be identified with the Association, and
some have already joined and paid the initia-
tion fee. Ladies also, who feel interested in this
association are cordially invited to become mem-
bers. Mech good has been accomplished by the
institution, and it is very desirable that its
sphere of usefulness should be enlarged.
				H. B. CLAWSON, President,
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.
	THE Art Exhibition recently opened in Cal-
der's store was quite a credit to young Utah.
One cannot do justice to this subject, however,
without making a lengthy notice, and unless one
is really an art critic more harm than good might
be done by giving opinions on the subject. Still
we are free to say that the "San Carmel Mis-
sion" pleased us more than any other painting
there, possibly the subject had a great deal to


do with our choice. It is true we have some
young artist here who will if they are diligent
and industrious arrive at some distinction in the
profession to which they seem adapted, and in
which they have natural talent. Lorus Pratt is
certainly a portrait painter, for his work is life
like; his painting of Prest. A. M. Cannon is
seemingly perfect. Mayor James Sharp is also
excellent. There are many pictures we would
be pleased to mention if we had space. Bro.
Pratt has certainly the true genius of his work.
Wednesday last we were shown a portrait paint-
ed by J. W. Clawson, son of Bishop H. B.
Clawson, of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, which was
certainly a most striking likeness, indeed, it
seemed as if she conld speak, and the soul seams
to be in the picture. It was one of the truest
to life we have seen upon canvas. Bro. Clawson
has risen wonderfully in the art and will no
doubt make a mark in his profession.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 13


[Column 1]
LETTER XII.

BERNES OBERLAND AND GLACIERS.

	After finishing my last letter, we visited the
Wartberg, and then rode into the Thuringian
Forest. 'Twas a delightful afternoon, and oh, I
shall take great pleasure in describing it verbal-
ly when I come home; you have read in stories
I am sure of this wonderful forest, but I do not
think anyone could ever imagine its real beauty
without seeing it. I can easily understand how
this Black Forest is the very home of romance.
I have not time or words to write anything des-
criptive of this, it is too grandly magnifient for
any description from me, besides it will be so
much more pleasant when I come home to tell
you all when we are all together again.
	Does Dot still sing, "The Rhine, the Rhine,
the German Rhine?", I have laughed so many
times since I came here and have heard it
played by the military bands, with the thought
of her perched on the topmost limb of an apple-
tree, or hanging in a trapeze in the garden, sing-
ing this national song at the top of her voice.
	The Easter Fair is going on here in Berne now
and it is similar to the fair held in the fall, of
which I have written before. The whirligigs
are out in full force and are most freely patron-
ized. So many children there, and they all seem
to be having such a good time, but then child-
ren always do have good times. What a happy
season is childhood! so full of joys and pleasures,
without a care or anxious thought to mar its
happiness.
	To-day it is warm and bright, almost too love-
ly to stay in the house, and I am so happy with
the thought of being at home again with all my
loved ones, still I have never been homesick at
all, and every hour has been to me so pleasant,
my health has been exceptionally good, and had
it not been for John Q.'s ill health last winter,
I think there would not have been one single
cloud over these bright days. He is perfectly
well now, and looks as hearty and happy as ev-
er, and I get such good news from home, that I
think I am very greatly blessed and feel most
thankful for having had the privilege of com-
ing into this land and seeing so much of the
beautiful earth, and yet I shall be just as grate-
ful to be allowed to come home and see all my
dear friends again, and my own dear home in
Utah's vales.
	As John Q. had never been far into the
Bernes Oberland, and as I had not been at all,
he took a little holiday and we went into that
beautiful and celebrated region. We had a nice
ride on the train as far as Thune, then took the
boat for Interlaken. Lake Thune is one of the
most famous lakes in Switzerland, and no won-
der, for it is indeed very lovely. The water is
the bluest I have ever seen, though they tell

[Column 2]
me not so blue as Lake Geneva, and the sur-
roundings are perfectly charming, not so grand
as the mountains around Lake Lucerne, but
beautiful in the extreme. I wasn't half pre-
pared for the beautiful scenery of the Oberland.
I thought I had seen now so much of the gran-
deur of the Alpine regions that this part would
not surprise me, but I was mistaken, I have
never before seen anything so wild, so weird, so
enchanting as this scenery.
	The Jungfrau, the finest mountain I think in
the whole range of the Alps, was right before
us; and oh, it looked so grand in its mantle of
perpetual snow. One of the largest glaciers is
in this mountain; we visited a cataract; such
an odd, wonderful fall of water, which is fed
from this glacier. Many people ascend the
Jungfrau, though the pass is quite dangerous. A
young English girl made the ascent in Decem-
ber last. Yesterday we went to Grinderwald, a
village not far from Interlaken, through a very
romantic region. It was early in the morning
when we started, and the air was fragrant with
the odor of blooming flowers, and the mountain
villages towered above us, and the women and
children were working in the fields, not broad
fields such as we have at home, but little val-
leys, similar to those one occasionally finds in
our canyons. The little wooden houses are built
right up on top of the hills, and all along the
sides; sometimes there are landslides, which
cause the houses to be torn down; we saw an
immense stone which had broken loose from the
mountain, and in its fall had crushed a house,
with all the family inside, not three years since.
One village in the mountains is covered in with
snow from September until March; the people
live there all the winter and spend their time in
carving wood; it is in these parts that the beau-
tiful wood carving is done, but just fancy never
being able to go out of the house for six or seven
months.
	When we reached Grinderwald we took
horses and rode an hour and a half up the
mountain to a glacier. The animals were sure-
footed and knew the way as well as the guide. I
never had a clear idea of what a glacier was,
and so appreciated still more the great ice moun-
tain. In the ravine between two of the highest
mountains was this great mass of rock, ice and
snow. It has been tunneled out, and we walked
right into the cavern of ice one hundred and
fifty feet, ice above, below, and on every side.
There was inside the most beautiful light I ever
saw, just the faintest, palest blue imaginable, it
made me think, or at least fancy, I had passed
beyond things real and was being shown some-
thing more purely beautiful than that which
belongs to earth. Oh, how I wish you could
have seen it for yourself, words cannot begin to
describe its loveliness. After we had come
from the cavern and had passed on to a hill
where our horses were standing, the blocks of
ice which the present rain and warm weather
had caused to break loose from the glacier came
rolling down over the rocks with a sound louder
than any thunder, and it echoed and re-echoed
through the mountains. The host at the moun-
tain house arranged three cannons and fired
them off for us, the sound and the echoes were
tremendous and terrible. As we rode back a
boy blew an Alpine horn for us, and the echo
was exceedingly beautiful and sweet. These
horns are about five feet long, such queer-look-
ing things.
	I think we have been very fortunate in seeing
Switzerland at this time, it is all green and
beautiful as summer, and a little too early for
tourists. When the season arrives for tourists
the people nearly kill one with their trinkets
for sale, their songs, their horns, and all such
things; we have heard it all and seen the real

[Column 3]
loveliness of the place without so many petty
annoyances. An Englishman whom we met
on the Righi said he thought us very fortunate
in being out of season, for we saw Switzerland
and her people in real life. "In summer the
whole place is a perfect shop." You can imagine
from what I have told you how excessively I
have enjoyed it, but you can't begin to imagine
how lovely it all is, you must see that for your-
self. How can one say mountains are not beau-
tiful and have no charm. It seems almost to
me as though such a person can have no soul.
I shall never tire talking of Switzerland, for I
feel it must be the most beautiful country in
the world, so wonderful, all mountains, rivers
and lakes, its cities are built in ravines, its vil-
lages on the mountain sides.
	We came back to Berne last night quite tired,
though very much delighted with what we had
seen.

FROM BERNE TO PARIS.

	We left Berne on the 15th of May, going to
Montreux the following morning, and we gave
ourselves the long promised pleasure of visiting
Chillon, (of which I shall at some future time,
write a full description for the EXPONENT).
And then we took the boat and rode the
whole length of Lake Geneva; oh, such a sight;
nothing in the wide, wide world so beautiful
as Switzerland, I know, with its mountains,
lakes and rivers. We spent some time in Gene-
va and then returned to Lausanne, where we
took train for Paris. Geneva, the largest and
most noted city of Switzerland, did not please
me near as much as some of the other Swiss
cities, Zurich and Lucerne for example, but
then, none of them have a more lovely view of
the Alps and the Lake Geneva, which is the
bluest and clearest water I have ever seen; we
had a spendid view of Mont Blanc from every
direction, and for miles as we traveled along the
great, glorious, snowy Alps loomed up before us,
displaying more grandeur than ever, it seemed
to me. I reluctantly bade them farewell, for I
know I shall never see anything so wonderfully
beautiful again, and as we rode along we soon
[---] the valleys and ravines of the [---]
still above them tower the white peaks of the
Alps, until we reached the Swiss borders, and
entered the forests of eastern France. From here
the ride was dull and uninteresting until Dijon
was reached, from there the land presented a
more cultivated appearance and an occasional
chateau relieved the monotony of the plain, lev-
el fields. It was such a change from the var-
ied, smiling scenery of Switzerland that it tired
me exceedingly. We had a delightful journey
to Paris, and I want when I feel quiet and com-
posed to write it up descriptively for the pa-
per.
	Well, here we are in this beautiful city, stay-
ing at La bille's, and well pleased with the lo-
cation, as we are near the centre of this great
metropolis. The first day after we arrived we
spent walking through the boulevardes, first to
the Place de la Concorde, a large open place
which forms the head of the Boulevarde Champs
Elysees, and from which a most beautiful
view can be obtained in every direction; on one
side is the garden of the Tuilleries, another the
Rue Royale, with the famous church of the Mad-
eline in front, another the Champs Elysees, as
far as the eye can reach a long avenue shaded
with lime and chestnut trees, and a continual
stream of people walking or riding back and
forth; at the lower end of this street is the Arc
de Triumph de l'etoile, the largest arch of tri-
umph in the world, and on the fourth side is the
Seine River, crossed by a handsome bridge. The
place is most beautifully ornamented with flow-
ers, statues and fountains, and in the centre, on
he spot where the guillotine stood, now stands


a large Egyptian obelisk. We stayed there some
time looking at all the beautiful monuments,
which bear no mark or thought of the dread-
ful history of the place, but in our minds we
were recalling the horrors that happened on this
very spot. There is no place in Paris which
bears such a history of crime and disaster as
this. I cannot begin to write all we saw, even
in one day, but after I come home we can talk
so much of these streets and the sights of Paris.
We walked through the Park an[-] Avenue of
the Champs Elysees, occasionally stopping to
rest and watch the fashionable throng driving
towards the Bois de Boulogne. After viewing
the Triumphal Arch from all aides we proceeded
down the Avenue Bois de Boulogne to the park
of the same name. There were crowds of peo-
ple there, I never saw so many carriages at once
in all my life.
	Paris has twelve thousand cabs, not to men-
tion the private vehicles, and it seemed to us
that the whole twelve thousand with as many
more private conveyances were there. From
three to six in the afternoon this is the popular
drive and walk, and here at this time can be
viewed with much satisfaction the gaiety of
Parisian life. Returning from the park we
walked through other principal boulevardes,
noting the pretty shops and café[-] and finally
reached the Grand Opera House, but it is need-
less to tell you anything about this as I could
not describe it if I tried, and you have often seen
pictures of it; we hope to view the inside of it
before long, then I can tell you more. We did
not return to our room until quite late, as we
wish to see all that is possible, and one has
much to do every day in such a city as this to
begin to see half the sights.
	To-day it has rained all the day long, and as
the galleries were not open on Monday we have
had to remain a good part of the day, however,
we started out and viewed the principal shops.
Those in the Palais Royal quite disappointed
me, I expected it would be so different. I nev-
er saw so much jewelry in my life; but aside
from the jewelry and Sevres china, the other ar-
ticles were not nearly as nice as those displayed
in the shops opposite the Louvre. There are all
under [---], where we can walk without get-
ting wet, and to-day they were filled with Eng-
lish tourists, who, I suppose, were like us, walk-
ing around to pass the time away which they
otherwise would have spent in the Pere La
Chaise Cemetery, or at Versailles or at some
other interesting place. The streets of Paris are
wide and clean, and the life and bustle almost
bewilders one. I suppose there is no place in
the world to compare with it, but I do not like
it as well as some of the German cities.
	To-morrow we anticipate spending the greater
part of day in the Louvre, and oh, how I wish
you could be with us and see the wonders of art
that we shall be gazing at. Every time I enter a
gallery I think, how Louie would enjoy and ap-
preciate this.
	We get along well everywhere, John Q. has
the most wonderful faculty for finding places; he
has already located all the sights of Paris, and
we go from one place to another as we choose,
without a guide, and without the least difficulty
find whatever place or street we desire.
	We expect now to sail on the 7th of June on
the Oregon, I hope we can, for that is such a
magnificent steamer and is also the fastest sailer
on the Atlantic.
									ANNIE.


14	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY MEETING.

	June 10th, 1884, by invitation of the President
of the 21st Ward Primary Association, I attend-
ed the anniversary of the same, and heard and


saw much that was most gratifying. Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, E. C. Clawson, M. P. Young,
and Lydia Alder were also visitors; there was a
large attendance. The programme was good,
and the selections excellent and appropriate;
some very small children gave short recitations
and little songs; it would not be fair to particu-
larize where all was good, but I must mention
emphatically a cust by the Misses Olsen, E[--]
and Alice, which was faultlessly rendered. "List-
-'tis music stealing." is an exquisite and pathet-
ic duet, and was deeply interesting to me from
associations that memory called up so vividly.
The name of Olsen seems synonymous with a
concord of sweet sounds among us, for which I
for one seem very grateful.
	The order and quiet preserved in the meeting
was really remarkable among such a juvenile
assemblage and did great credit to the parents,
and also to the President and her counselors.
Sister Snow led the opening prayer, the children
following her in each sentence, which was very
effective. She afterward addressed them in her
usual sensible and practical manner; and each
lady visitor spoke a few words apropos to the
children. To me the meeting was perfectly in-
spirational, and in those expressive words, I
"felt it was good to be there."
	There was an invitation from Sister Vernon
Smith to adjourn to her house after the meeting
and partake of refreshments, which several of
the ladies accepted, and we there found an ele-
gant and substantial table spread with the
bounties and luxuries of life; and the evening
closed with "the feast of reason and the flow of
soul." Such meetings with such scenes help to
make the poetry of life, and to bring out and
unite much that often lies dormant for the want
of such genial association. May the smile and
approbation of our Great Father, with His di-
vine assistance over attend all such gatherings,
is the prayer of					H. T. K.


THOUGHTS SUGGESTED ON SATURDAY
NIGHT.

ORDER.

	'Tis a good theme, Heaven's first law, and
one which I delight in. Where'er it reigns
there's power; absent, chaos prevails. The toil-
some work is ended, eve of the day of rest is here;
on bended knee we thank the Lord for mercies
given in the past week, for bounties on us bes-
towed by His all-bounteous hand; all needful du
ties performed; procrastination is not thought
of; needful rest is sought, and all is left in "or-
der."
	The Sabbath morn is ushered in; at early
hour the nightly couch is left; prayer offered; all
things found at hand. The product of the pre-
vious evening, delight steals o'er the senses, for
it is felt that all is order. 'Tis getting church
time, and the hour has come for starting; the
spot is reached; the usual seat is gained and
taken, there to sit with thoughts collected and
wait the arrival of God's servants. Bowing in
humble adoration before the author of our being
we meet and join in songs of praise and offer
prayer to Him for mercies had since last we
met, and ask, in faith, our Heavenly Father to
bestow on us more mercies in the coming week.
	The everlasting Gospel is restored in all its
beauty, the holy priesthood is again on earth,
with prophets, seers, and revelators, through
whom the loving counsels of the great "I am"
are sent to His straying, erring children. The
end of time approaches, the six day's work is
nearly done, the great millennial day of rest is
near, eternity is before us.
	Oh! that vast word, "eternity," who can grasp
it? Our finite minds quail before it, for 'tis [---]


measurable. In the beginning all was "order."
The end of time will be in order. Order will
reign throughout "eternity," for it is God's law.
							ANNA GILL.


A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

	"Gail Hamilton is about as useful to Mr.
Blaine as Mrs. Logan is to her husband. It
is not probable that there is much in the story
that she composed any important part of the
Blaine Book, though she is entirely capable of
that character of writing. A distinguished
critic said recently that Gail Hamilton was one
of the few women of this age who can reason
and write like a man. At this time she is mak-
ing herself more useful than ornamental by
acting as the private secretary of Mr. Blaine.
The post-office officials here say that Blaine.
now receiving a larger mail than was ever be-
fore received by any person residing in Wash-,
ington. All this correspondence Gail Hamil-
ton handles, either writing the answer herself
or dictating to a shorthand man who is con-
stantly in service. Mr. Blaine confesses that
she can frame a letter as diplomatically as he
can himself, and he pays her the tribute of
saying that she frequently does it better. The
lady is one of your 'early to bed and early to
rise' exponents. It is said that five o'clock in
the morning never sees her asleep, and that
when social engagements do not prevent she
retires at nine. Even if she goes to bed after
midnight, she is up at five the next morning.
She is an ardent believer in the destiny of
Blaine, and does not doubt that he will be the
next occupant of the White House. Her
friends report that in connection with this faith
she is building some social air-castles for her-
self, which is altogether pardonable in a lady
of such vaulting ambition, joined to such
conspicious gifts."


Elevate the working class by keeping your
children in it.— Gladstone.

	Do you think of one falsity as harmless,
and another as slight, and another as unin-
tended? Cast them all aside; they may be light
and accidental, but they are ugly soot from the
smoke of the pit for all that.—Ruskin.

	Much dissatisfaction is expressed in England
because Miss Octavia Hill has not been ap-
pointed on the Royal Commission to attend to
the dwellings of the poor. As the papers say:
"There is no doubt that she knows more about
this subject than any man in England;" and
they call attention to the absurdity of consid-
ering a woman unfit to be appointed on the
Royal Commission, in the country where the
sovereign is a woman.—Ex.

	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, in the Indianapo-
lis Times, gives a very rich and graphic account
of the part taken by women in the late Nation-
al Greenback Convention. She says: "It was
a study of historic value to witness the bear-
ing of the women in this convention, and their
influence upon the confusion and turmoil."
We consider Mrs. Sewall one of the ablest wo-
men of the age; her executive ability is quite
remarkable, and she has wonderful tact as well
as talent.

	Madame Charlton Edholm contributed two
ably written papers on "Woman Journalists"
to the American Journalist, (St Louis, Mo.) for
March and April. She tells us the first daily
newspaper in the world was edited by a woman,
Elizabeth Mallet, in London, March, 1702."
She finds a large list in these latter days. "Un-
til women came into journalism there were no
juvenile papers, and their first efforts were in
that direction; Mrs. Child's Juvenile Miscellany
being the first, and The Rosebud, by Mrs. Gil-
man in 1832, the second.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 15


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

WHITECHAPEL BRANCH, LONDON.

	On Wednesday, March 19th, was celebrated
the tenth anniversary of the Relief Society of
this branch, in their large hall, New Road,
Mile End, by a concert or entertainment. The
bill of fare provided was of a most varied and
liberal character. In some respects this was a
model concert, all songs and matter of a ques-
tionable character, unworthy of saints, being
excluded. It was certainly one of the most,
if not the most, successful yet held, whether re-
garded numerically or in its financial results.
At seven o'clock p.m. the hall was nearly filled
by a most respectable, attentive and expectant
audience. Until eleven o'clock, with but a
short interval of ten minutes, the interest nev-
er flagged. After prayer by Elder Leo Claw-
son and a hymn, the concert commenced by an
overture, "The May Queen Waltz, pianoforte
and piccolo, Sister Dolly Atkinson and Mr. A.
Hazzard. In this limited space of course it is
impossible to do more than make a pass-
ing reference to those who more particularly
distinguished themselves by their ability or
talent. In some instances this was displayed
in a manner that must have satisfied the most
fastidious or cultured. A pleasing and unique
feature in the entertainment was that several
of the songs and recitations given were com-
posed by the respected President, Elder H.
Garner. Doubtless these are but instalments
of future favors to come. He has already
composed the following, given at this and pre-
vious concerts; "The Priesthood," "The Cat,"
"The Cheap Jack," comic, given by the writer,
"Pa's come home to-day," and last, though not
least. "Priestcraft," recited by himself, in
which blows of the most vigorous kind are
dealt this "Colossal of Error." "Pa's come
home to-day was sung by Sister Angie Cross,
pianoforte accompaniment by herself. Song by
Elder Loveday, "The Naval Hero" was well
given; as was a song by Sister A. Gill, entitled
"The Old Maid," which was deservedly en-
cored. A song by the children must not be
omitted, "Words of Wisdom," in which the
saints were exhorted to eschew tea, coffee, and
tobacco; a duet by Sisters N. and A. Collins
was given in fine style, and a song, "Exile from
Zion," was given with much feeling by Elder
H. Heath; songs by the Bros. Spillman added
to the general harmony. "The Minute Gun
at Sea," by Teacher J. Davies, and "Just down
the Lane," by Teacher T. Ellis, was well re-
ceived. A recitation by a young lady, Sister
Caroline Parrott, "The Dream," was given in
fine style. The way in which Miss Dolly At-
kinson presided at the pianoforte was most
creditable to her skill and taste. Sister Angie
Cross, whose musical skill is well known, in
her singing likewise displayed no small talent.
During the evening the following report was
read by the Secretary: Tenth Annual Report
of the Relief Society of the Whitechapel
Branch for the year ending March 4th, 1884:
	This society was disorganized in October,
1883, consequent upon the emigration of the
President, Sister E. Young; reorganized the
following March, under the Presidency of El-
der E. H. Nye. The Society now consists of a
president, two counselors, secretary and seven
teachers. Number of meetings held during
the year, 13; Visits paid, 77; Cash collected
from all sources; £10.14.5; Disbursements, £9.-
16.2 ½; On hand, £0.18.2 ½. The newly appoint-
ed members of this society are now initiated
into their work. They meet fortnightly. The
reports are given and financial matters ar-
ranged in unity and love. Thus far an extra
oneness has prevailed. The necessitous poor
have been cared for as far as the means would
permit. And it is hoped have been judicious-

[Column 2]
ly administered. The sisters feel that their
endeavors have been blessed, and that much of
the Spirit of the Lord has been in their midst.
It is the desire of all to press onward in their
labors of love in that part of the Lord's vine-
yard wherein they are placed.
				MARY GARNER, President.
				ANN GILL, Secretary.

	Elder H. Garner presided in his usual genial
style. Elders Lund and Atkins were likewise
present. Towards the close Elder Leo Claw-
son gave a short address, in which he stated
how pleased and gratified he was with the
manner the programme had been rendered.
	Prest. H. Garner then followed with a few
witty remarks about making a collection,
naively remarking that as they had all paid to
come to the concert he must let them off this
time.
	Elder Lund then dismissed with prayer, and
thus terminated this tenth and most successful
anniversary. Many of the Saints attending
came from great distances, and there was a fair
sprinkling of strangers present.
				ALEXANDER R. CLARK,
					Branch Secretary.

FARMINGTON.

	Our Primary Conference was held at the
Centreville meeting house, March 29, 1884:
present on the stand, officers, Mrs. Aurelia s.
Rogers, Mrs. Julia Hess, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark;
Mrs. Mary A. Clark, of the Relief Society,
Prest. Wm. R. Smith, Bishop Nathan Cheeney,
and Brother Nathan T. Porter, and Bro. Wm.
Preece, of South Hooper, and others of the
brethren and sisters.
	The Primaries of Davis Stake are nine in
number, all of which were represented by their
respective presidents. We hold our conference
twice a year; our exercises are similar to those
in other places. The following programme
was attentively listened to:
	Primary address by Miss Mattie Smith, of
Centreville; Singing, "Pilgrims," by a class of
young Misses from East Bountiful; Recitation,
"The Names of the Presidents of the United
States," by master Calvin W. Richards, Jr., of
Farmington; Dialogue, Oscar Layton and Hen-
ry Blood, of Kaysville: "Song of the Seasons,"
by a class from South Bountiful: Recitation,
4th chapter of Bible Questions and Answers,
by a class of boys from North Centreville; Song,
"Don't drink, my boy, to-night," by a class
from Kaysville; an essay by Miss Johanna Sea-
man; Recitation, "Barbara Fritchie," John
Rampton; Song, "Here in our mountain home,"
by a class from North Centreville; The thirty-
seventh chapter of Bible Questions were an-
swered by all the associations combined; Reci-
tation, "The Gambler's Wife," Miss Lottie
Pack; Song, "Jewels," by four girls from Far-
mington; Recitation from Card No. 4 by a
class from South Centreville; Names of the
presidents of the various Stakes of Zion by
Master Mathoniah Thomas; Recitation, "The
Fisherman and the Priest," by Frank Shep-
herd, from Kaysville; "Learning is our Aim,"
by a group from South Centreville; Recitation,
"Good Resolutions," Charles Hogan, of South
Bountiful; Recitation, "Pre-existence," Nathan
Barlow; Singing by a group from Kaysville,
"Go break the news gently to Mother."
	Prest. Rogers expressed herself well pleased
with the reports and the pieces rendered by the
children; also was delighted with their beauti-
ful singing; advised them to continue to carry
out the instructions she had previously given
them in regard to storing up beans. Said the
Relief Society was laying up wheat, and
thought the Primary children could raise beans
and donate a small portion every year.
	Good order prevailed during the meeting.
At noon the officers and members partook of a
nice picnic dinner in what is known as Brother

[Column 3]
Reeves' Hall. The tables were prepared by
the Presidents of the Centreville Associations,
Mrs. Rebecca Porter and Mrs. Fanny Garner,
with their assistants. We do not forget those
young ladies who waited on the tables, serving
hot vegetables, etc.
	Good instructions were given to the children
by the brethren and sisters who addressed them.
					SARAH E. ROBINSON,
							Stake Secretary.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	On the 10th of May the friends of Sister
Sarah Copley prepared her a pleasant surprise
on the occasion of her 65th birthday. At two
p.m. they assembled in the Relief Society Hall;
when Sister Copley arrived, as she thought to
attend a Primary Conference and picnic, she
was struck by the almost entire absence of
children. She was escorted to the seat of hon-
or, after which Bishop C. A. Madsen made an
opening speech, in which he expressed his own
as well as his brethren and sisters’ high esteem
for Sister Copley, and their appreciation of her
labors in the Relief Society of Gunnison, over
which she has presided for nearly nine years.
She was presented with a beautiful parlor
lamp, an exquisite pair of vases and a rocking
chair. Sister Copley made a response charac-
teristic of her inborn modesty, her saint-like
humility and her integrity to the cause of
truth. An excellent repast was then served by
a number of our young ladies, who seemed to
know just what everybody wanted. Plenty
was left for the sick and the poor who were not
present.
	A few hours were spent in sociable, genial
conversation, interspersed with songs, dia-
logues, recitations, etc., when we were dismissed.
[---] James Gledhill
									H.M.
	Gunnison, May 21st, 1884.


The Woman Suffrage Bill was killed in the
N. Y. Assembly May 10, by a vote of 57 ayes
and 62 nays. The bill recognizes the right of
women to vote, and provides that no woman
who possesses the qualifications for voting
which are required of men, and who appears
before any board of registry and expresses a
desire to vote at such election wherefor that
board is making registry, shall be refused reg-
istration because of her sex. The object of
the bill, if it passed, was to make a test case
and have the courts decide whether under the
present State Constitution of New York wom-
en have a right to vote. Many who voted
against the bill said they did so on the ground
that it was clearly unconstitutional, and that
if the question was up on a constitutional
amendment, they should vote in favor of the
proposition. The Brooklyn members voted for
the bill, with the exception of Messrs. Kelly
and Nason, who were recorded in the negative,
and General Heath, who was absent.—Ex.

	The surprisingly large vote obtained under
such adverse circumstances, increases our re-
gret that Mr. Hamilton Wilcox, the author of
the bill, had not limited its scope to municipal
and presidential suffrage, so as to avoid the
legal question of constitutionality. If the vote
of the New York Assembly expresses the real
opinion of its members, a bill thus limited
might become a law, and would give women
so much political power as to ensure their com-
plete enfranchisement in the near future. It
is a pity to have the wheels of progress thus
blocked year after year upon a mere technical-
ity.—Ex.
	Manners are the shadow of virtues.—Sydney
Smith.


16	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

TO SISTER SARAH STRONG.

	Decaesed was born September 1st, 1806, York County,
Pennsylvania, was married to Jacob Strong February
28th, 1822, Strongstown, Indiana County, Pa. She
joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
under the hands of Apostle Erastus Snow, Oct. 20th,
1836, in Strongstown, Indiana Co., Pa. Immigrated to
Nauvoo, Illinois, Sept. 24th, 1839, was driven with the
Saints to the wilderness, arriving at Salt Lake City,
Utah, Oct., 1849, resided in the Tenth Ward up to the
time of her death, which took place May 9th, 1884, at
the hour of 5.52 p.m
	Whereas, It has pleased the Great Creator to take un-
to Himself our beloved Sister Strong, who had been
President of the Tenth Ward Relief Society for twelve
years, a devoted friend to the poor, and wise counselor
in her family, and,
	Whereas, It is fitting that she be held in honorable
rememberance, therefore be it
	Resolved, By the sisters of the Relief Society of the
Tenth Ward, that while we mourn, not as those who
have no hope, yet we realize that we have lost a faith-
ful President, who died as she had lived, in the hope of
a glorious resurrection.
	Resolved; That these resolutions be put upon the re-
cords of the Relief Society, and that a copy thereof be
sent to the family of our dear sister, and also to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
				ELIZABETH PAUL,
				JEANNIE McLEAN,	Committee.
				MARGARET JACKSON,


OBITUARIES.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister
Edith Patten Billings, who departed this life May 18th,
1884.
	Sister Billings was born in Greene Co., Indiana,
March 15th, 1832, and has been indentified with the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from her
earliest childhood, and shared in the persecutions of
Missouri and Illinois.
	She was a piece of the [---]
[---], and has passed through many trying scenes in the
history of this Church.
	Her life since her marriage has been spent in Manti.
She arrived here Nov. 22nd, 1850, and lived where the
temple now casts its shadow. She leaves a husband
and a numerous family of sons and daughters to mourn
the loss of a most exemplary wife and a kind and affec-
tionate mother.
	She has always been faithful to the principles of the
Gospel, and has ever been an active and efficient mem-
ber of the Relief Society, and for many years has cred-
itably performed the duties of assistant presiding
teacher, being especially noted for her exact neatness
and precision in preparing burial garments for the
dead. In every department of labor performed by the
Relief Society she was an able and active worker.
	Her funeral was one of the largest we have had in
Manti. Many consoling remarks were made by old vet-
erans who had known her from her young days, and al-
so by President Peterson and the Bishops of Manti,
William Reed and Hans Jenson.
	Resolved, That inasmuch as it has been the will of
our Heavenly Father, in the dispensation of His Provi-
dence, to remove from our midst our well beloved sis-
ter, we, in behalf of the two branches of the Relief So-
ciety of Manti, hereby tender our sincere and heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family and relatives of the
deceased.
	We earnestly hope and trust that they may receive in
this hour of their heavy affliction that comfort which
comes from on high, that through the dark clouds of
the present they may see the light which shineth more
and more unto the perfect day.
	Resolved, That while we realize that we have lost a
dear friend and efficient co-laborer, we also realize that
our loss is her gain, and while we mourn the loss of her
society for the present, we believe she has transferred
her labors for the advancement of the cause of Zion to
a wider field in a higher sphere, far from the storms and
perplexities of mortal life.
	Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing obituary and
resolutions be sent to the EXPONENT for publication,
and also be placed upon record in the books of the
North Ward Society.
					REBECCA WAREHAM, President,
					A. S. COX, Secretary,


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c,	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow. Vol. 1,		-		$1,00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
	Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT. M. D.
OFFICE IN GOBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING ,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY
FURNITURE
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1884	No 3.


A DRIFTING BOAT.

BY CHARLES A. FOSTER.

It had floated away from the beach and bay,
	Out of sight of tower and town,
An empty and a battered boat;
	But that boat would not go down.
The morning rose on the waters wide,
	And the night fell cold and dark,
Yet ever on with the wind and tide
	Drifted that battered bark.

The sail had passed from its broken mast,
	And its painted pride was dim;
The salt sea-weed clung round its bows
	Which had been so sharp and trim.
Where were the merry mates and free
	Who had gone with it afloat?
We never learned; but the world's wide sea
	Hath lives like that drifting boat.

Lives that in early storms have lost
	Anchor and sail and oar,
And never, except on Lethe's shore,
	Can come to moorings more;
Out of whose loveless, trustless days
	The hope and the heart hath gone—
Good ships go down on the stormy seas,
	But those empty boats drift on.

They had hearts to sail in the wind's eye once;
	They had hands to reef and steer,
With a strength that would not stoop to chance,
	And a faith that knew no fear.
But the years were long and the storms were strong,
	And the rainbow flag was furled,
And they that launched for the skies became
	But the driftwood of the world.
—Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
﻿A VISIT TO THE COUNTRY.

	Oh, for an "out" into the fresh green coun-
try! Inspired by this impulse, my sister, with
our two little girls chatting with delight over
our anticipated ride, secured seats in a northern
bound train last Decoration Day—as is usually
the case on that memorable day the heavens
showered its tears upon the graves of the dead
heroes of our country—but after the ceremony
of strewing flowers, nature seemed cheered,
dried her eyes and the sun shone forth with
increased brilliancy—in token of approval.
	An example of "Might over Right," which
still holds sway in this life, was exhibited in
the cars by a man in appearance rudely taking
possession of a lady's seat during her absence
for a few moments. When informed that a lady
had already secured the seat, he answered,
"Then she may find another," refusing to arise
when she returned, although other seats were
vacant. The blood in my veins ran up to fev-
er heat, but the train sped on, leaving us at a
little quiet station, from whence we were borne
by a pair of fine animals through winding wil-
low-fringed lanes and flower-decked roads,
sweet with the fragrance of bloom and bird
song. Nature's silent influence has soothed
our indignant spirit, we breathe the cool, sweet
scented air, our eyes feast upon the scene of ru-
ral beauty and our souls swell with gratitude to
the Giver of our lovely mountain home. Man's
injustice to the weaker sex is laid aside for the
time—we are in sight of the little cottage on
the hill side, nestled in a forest of apple trees.
The snowy mountain peaks tower far above in
majestic protection, sending forth rushing, bub-
bling streamlets to dance and sing through
velvet meadows and thriving farms, to be

[Column 2]
hushed into silence on the bosom of the fa
mous Salt Lake, shimmering in the sunlight
like a huge sheet of silver.
	The sound of carriage wheels brings a bevy
of curious expectant faces to the door. We
are most cordially greeted and gracefully
waited upon by the elder girls, while two or
three younger ones run excitedly in search of
"mother;" after a smiling welcome from our
aunt we begin to make ourselves acquainted
with the little country cousins, who have
sprung up like daisies in the meadow since we
made our last visit, when a blooming lass we
tripped over the hills which years of suffering
have robbed us of power to do more than look
upon and admire.
	In this secluded spot in the suburbs of our
propserous town, is a family to be proud of—
twelve children, sex equally divided, with no
vacant chair in the household, except as it was
left to fill that of another home. Here was a
family chain without one missing or ill-favored
link—the sons handsome, intelligent, and of
splendid physique, and the daughters, without
exception, healthy, rosy-cheeked and pretty,
each head crowned with an abundance of wom-
an's glory, a fair forehead, beneath which spark-
led large, beautiful eyes. How graceful and
modest, and such housekeepers! such perfection
of neatness everywhere, while every meal re-
vealed their knowledge of wholesome, tasty
cooking; the sweet, golden butter was perfec-
tion. Vases of tastefully arranged wild flow-
ers here and there, with books and paper, many
of them our own home literature, gave evi-
dence of refinement and intelligence. And
how refreshing the spirit of kindness manifest-
ed from the eldest down to the prattling house-
hold pet. We witnessed nothing rough, bois-
terous or uncouth, nor had they been trained
for the occasion, for we were unexpected visi-
tors.
	And this was a patriarchal family in the or-
der of plural marriage! All clinging to the
faith of their parents, and proud of their birth-
right and the principle which gave them an
honorable existence among the peaceful vales
of Utah. Truly such a household is a monu-
ment of praise to the mother, a plural wife of
a noble, generous-souled man, devoted to his
family and his religion; she has lived in the or-
der of celestial marriage twenty-eight years,
and testified to me that she had never regretted
her choice, nor once felt that she had done
wrong in accepting that principle.
	This quiet, steadfast woman had followed
the dictates of a conscience born of a mighty
faith in God; found honorable wifehood and
motherhood with a man she loved and honored
—has proven herself a faithful, devoted wife
through long years of toil and trial such as
must necessarily be the lot of a woman who
bears twelve children, in moderate circum-
stances. These she has trained to strict moral-
ity, taught them to honor and uphold the Con-
stitution of their country, only to see them
robbed of all rights and privileges of Ameri-
can citizens, unless they violate that conscience
which they have been trained from birth to
hold sacred; and she, this virtuous, God-fearing
woman, must sit with hands fettered by uncon-
stitutional law, untried, unproven guilty of any
offense, while any brazen courtesan, whose steps
lead down to shame and death, may pass tri-
umphantly by her and cast her vote, while she
smiles at the men who yield her patronage.

[Column 3]
	But we leave the discussion of such weighty
subjects to abler pens, we can feel the injustice,
better than discuss it.
	Our pleasant visit is over. We're homeward
bound with a huge bouquet of sweet wild roses,
a deserted bird's nest, and a bucket full of wil-
low whistles to charm the little ones, and with
a higher, truer appreciation in our hearts for
the women who quietly, patiently tread the
ceaseless round of home duties, uninspired by
the praise of the multitude, scarcely apprecia-
ted by those for whom they daily toil and
sacrifice, until the household machinery is
brought to a solemn stop; the main spring is
worn out, the tired hands are folded in a peace-
ful rest, and the weary heart has laid down its
burden of care and sorrow. These our our Mo-
thers! God bless them! May their children
rise up and call them blessed. While the
grandest, most enduring monument, shall be an
honorable remembrance among the Saints of
God forever.					SUN FLOWER.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Dr. Lizzie Sargent, daughter of our minis-
ter to Germany, and Miss Flora Kelly, daugh-
ter of Judge Kelly, of Pennsylvania, are
among the eleven American girls studying at
Zurich.
	Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi has lately given
the New York Telegram some very interesting
facts concerning the status of women in the
medical profession. The census of 1870 showed
625 women physicians in the United States.
The census of 1880 shows 2432. This includes
irregular practitioners of various kinds; but,
irrespective of such, the increase has been very
marked.
	Antipathies.-The celebrated Erasmus, though
a native of Rotterdam, had such an aversion
to fish, that the smell of it threw him into a fev-
er. Ambrose Pare had a patient who could
never see an eel without fainting; and another
who would fall into convulsions at the sight of
a carp. What would have been the effect of
an electric eel on these gentlemen? Joseph
Scaliger and others could never drink milk.
Gardan was disgusted at the sight of eggs. A
King of Poland and a Secretary of France
bled at the nose when they looked at apples.
Henry III., of France, and many others had
a great aversion to cats, mice, spiders, etc. A
great huntsman in Hanover, who would attack
a wild boar valiantly, always fainted at the
sight of a roasted pig, if he had not time to run
away. These antipathies have been humor-
ously accounted for by the doctrine of the
transmigration of souls. Those who had been
flies in a former state were horribly afraid of
spiders; those who had been mice, did not like
cats; and those who had been cats did not love.
dogs, etc. Amatus Lusitanus knew a person
who fainted whenever he saw a rose, and al-
ways kept his house when they were in bloom.
Scaliger mentions the same about lilies, and
Bayle about honey. Bayle himself turned
pale at the sight of water-cresses; Tycho-Brahe
fainted at the sight of a fox; Henry III, of
France, at that of a cat, Marshal d'Albert at a
pig. A lady, wonderful enough, could not en-
dure the feel of silk or satin. A man, not so
strangely, was known to faint whenever he
heard a servant sweeping. Nicanor swooned
whenever he heard a bagpipe; Bayle fainted
when he heard the splashing of water.


18	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	On the 27th Horace mentions the boys and
girls going fishing. "At the same time," he
says, "we saw a number of teams crossing the
bridge on their way back. There were ten
wagons, which proved to be the property of
men who had left the Pawnee village about 120
miles above there, in consequence of the hostil-
ity of the Indians, where they had lived a
number of years. They were going to the vil-
lage below on the west side of the river, where
a number of their company had preceded them.
Among those we saw were four wagons and six
men belonging to Bishop Miller, who are tak-
ing a load back for them, and receive in pay-
ment for the same three hundred bushels of
grain, mostly wheat.	*	*	The occa-
sion of their leaving is this—a hostile tribe of
Indians called the Punkaws, who are constant-
ly roving about and are much addicted to
thieving, have lately made their appearance at
the Pawnee village, and molested them so
much with their thieving operations and other-
wise, that they are obliged to leave, the Indi-
ans having previously stolen all their horses.
The settlement of men who have thus left, for-
merly consisted of eight families, viz.: three
missionaries, three farmers, one blacksmith, and
a school teacher commissioned by government;
the school teacher had under his direction some
twenty Pawnee children, who have left with
him to go down to the said village, and whom
he is educating at the expense of the govern-
ment. Some of Bishop Miller's men told me
that the Pawnee village was totally deserted,
they having gone out on a hunting expedition.
They told me furthermore that they are living
on the "fat of the land," there being plenty of
garden sauce, such as potatoes, onions, peas,
etc., which the settlers had left behind, not be-
ing able to bring them away."
	We had been deprived of vegetables from
the time that we had left the states, and it had
already begun to tell upon us, though we had
no idea then of the scourge and suffering that
were lying before us; but we will not "cross
the bridge till we come to it." There was a
piece of unexpected good fortune happened to
Bishop Whitney which Horace relates:
	"When father's boys went down into the
country some time after provisions he sent $89
for the same, but through the mismanagement
of the agent he did not get more than half he
wanted, and consequently would have been un-
able to prosecute the journey had it not been that
the Lord, seemingly on purpose to repair this
misfortune or injury, put forth His hand in his
behalf. The circumstances were these: Bro.
Hyde being about to depart for England, just
before crossing the river again with his fami-
ly, let him have two yoke of oxen, ten barrels
of flour, and a bushel and a half of beans,
which to use his own phrase, "has completely
set me on my feet again," and he is now fitted
out to his heart's content.	*	*	At
the same time Bro. Parley P. Pratt gave him
$30 in gold for the same amount of money."	*
	"Tuesday, 28th. Beautiful morning.
About 2 p.m. it commenced raining, and con-
tinued showering through the day and night,
accompanied by considerable thunder and
lightning—it seemed to pour down almost per-
pendicularly and in perfect torrents, so that
there was not a wagon but what the rain pene-
trated through the cover thereof and wet all
the bed clothing, etc."
	This was one of the trials calculated to test
one's patience, a virtue which had been consid-
erably exercised during the five months that
we had spent picking and plodding our way
under difficulties which no language can des-
cribe, therefore must leave it for imagination

[Column 2]
to do, though Horace gives no slight idea:
"Wednesday, 29th. This morning fine and
pleasant, the atmosphere sweet and pure, in
contrast to the sultry heat of yesterday; almost
every wagon in camp was unloaded, in order
to dry the things therein.	*	*	Bros.
Kimball and Brigham went over the river to-
day to make some arrangements for the breth-
ren starting for England.	*	*	They
intend starting to-morrow. Since we have
been lying still our cattle have suffered from
the "footale." caused either by the mud or grass
getting between their hoofs; while traveling we
have never been troubled with it."
	The remedy made use of was to pour melted
rosin into the hoof, afterwards pulling a rope
backwards and forward through it to get out
the filth. Rather a rough remedy this. We
had showers at intervals for two or three days
and nights, and on the 30th Horace wrote:
	"During the storm on Tuesday evening an ox
belonging to Bro. Eldredge was struck by light-
ning and instantly killed. Father Lott came
up to-day, bringing considerable church prop-
erty, with some cattle and sheep, etc." and that
my father and mother went over the river to
visit a farm the same day, returning at even-
ing and bringing quite a quantity of green corn
—first we had seen that was fit to eat. He
wrote:
	"Another meeting was held this morning,
and a number of teams sent down to help those
who are crossing the river all the time, and are
constantly swelling the size of our camp with
their numbers."
	Next morning another meeting was called
and a number of men who had not yet been
were sent to the river to work. Father and
President Young went also. While they were
there the steamboat "General Brooks" came
down the river and stopped at the village on our
side about two miles below the ferry' 'Bros.
Parley P. Pratt, Orson Hyde, John Taylor, R.
Pierce and Little came over in a skiff and took
in Bros. Brigham and Kimball and went down
the river to overtake the boat, but when they
got to the village the steamboat had left, conse-
quently Bros. Taylor, Hyde and Pratt were
obliged to go down in a flat-boat in company
with some missionaries till they can overtake a
steamboat."
	"Saturday, August 1st.	*	*	*	*
Another lot of men were sent down to the river
this morning with teams.	*	*	To-
day a number of the Otoe Indians were here,
they had a lot of corn with them which they
had stolen from the cornfields of the Mohawks
close by here. The Otoes are a mean, thieving
race, and are also very cunning, which they
showed particularly in this case, knowing that
the taking of the corn would be laid on to us
by the Mohawks. Father, mother and little
brother are very sick to-day. Father took
cold sitting up and watching with mother, who
was very sick during last night, but is a little
better to-day"	*
	"Sunday, 2nd. Brothers Brigham and Kim-
ball and some others took a trip up the river
on this side to-day to find out a nearer road to
the place where they want to go, they returned
and held a council.	*	*	It is con-
templated to start on to-morrow or next day
and to go to some place to settle down and pre-
pare for winter.
	To-day, by Bro. K.'s advice and arrangement,
the family was divided into three messes, mak-
ing it more agreeable and convenient for all.
*	*	To-day put up my little tent again
*	*	*	Sarah Ann, Helen, Mary
Houston, George Billings and myself are to
occupy it."
	"Monday, 3rd. The weather still fine.	*
Brother Kimball sent ten yoke of oxen down
to the river to help up Bro. Clayton and fami-
ly.	*	*	Bro. Brigham let Bro. Kim-
ball have a quantity of beef to-day, an ox of

[Column 3]
his having jumped off a bridge and broken his
neck this forenoon.	*	The same
day he called the people of the camp together
and told them the intention of moving in the
morning, and received their vote and acquies-
cence in the same. Among other things he in-
formed them that they had found a good road
on the "divide" between the Missouri and Elk
Horn Rivers, and they had no doubt of finding
some good location. We started next morning
and traveled eight miles and encamped on the
prairie."


UNION.

	Union is something that ought to be cultiva-
ted and exist in every settlement of the Latter-
day Saints. And without it we cannot accom-
plish much good. We ought to try and be
united with each other as much as possible.
The Lord says, "Unless ye are one ye are not
mine." By that it seems that we must unite
or He will reject us. And without union our
meetings cannot be interesting. Then let us be
united in our meetings as well as in other
things. It seems that nothing worthy can be
accomplished without union. Without united
effort this stream of water that flows close by
cannot be controlled; one man's efforts would
be useless to control it, but the united efforts of
twenty or thirty have once controlled it, and
they will do it again.
	One grain of powder is harmless, but when a
barrel explodes it will tear the rocks to pieces.
Think of the great damage that was caused
by the united effect of the explosion of many
tons of powder in the magazine at Salt Lake
City. Who has not heard of the Indian chief
who, when on his dying bed, took a single ar-
row and broke it easily, and then said to his
sons, This is the way you will be broken after
your father is dead if you single out and di-
vide yourselves! And then he took a bunch of
arrows and told one of his sons to break them,
but be conld not; the father then said, This is
the way you will be if you all stay together
and remain as one; you cannot be broken.
Take a single match and light it and it is no-
thing, but unite it with other flames and its
power is wonderful. It will destroy property
of every kind. And where there is union al-
most anything can be accomplished.
						NORA SAVAGE.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Henry Carey, a cousin to Queen Elizabeth,
after having enjoyed her majesty’s favor for
several years, lost it in this manner: As he was
walking in the garden of the palace, under the
queen’s window, she asked him, in a jocular
manner, "What does a man think when he is
thinking of nothing?" The answer was a very
brief one. "Upon a woman’s promise," he re-
plied. "Well done, cousin," said Elizabeth,
"excellent!" Some time after he solicited the
honor of a peerage, and reminded the queen
that she had promised it to him. "True," said
her majesty, "but that was a woman’s prom-
ise."—Ex.

	Maud—Isn't it dreadful, Julia, about the
banks, and Wall Street, and stocks, and every-
thing of that sort? Julia—Just shocking!
Politics are such dreadful things. Maud—And
don’t you know I have been worried to death
about pa! Julia—Why? Does your pa own
a bank? Maud—No: but he’s got lots to do
with mortgages and speculations and that sort
of things, and I just know that when I ask him
to get a new gold-plated set of harness for
Kitty, he’s going to look up with that awfully
solemn look and say, "My daughter, do you
read the papers?"—Washington Hatchet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 19


HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

"Wait thou, my spirit, till he calls
In answer to thine earnest prayer;
Do thy full duty, guard thy steps,
	For oh, I feel a presence near
That almost parts the burdened air;
	I lean; I wait, the voice to hear."

And once, unconscious who was near, 
She held the boy and sang to him;	
The hearer’s eyes drank in the scene,
    	And knew what most his love had missed—
The mother-heart. His eyes grew dim
	As she the drowsy eyelids kissed.

More thoughtful daily grew his face;
If she had ever sought his eyes
She might have caught a shadow there
	Rising o’er her own peaceful day;
But In her own pure soul the skies
	Were blue and clear, and plain the way.

And his fair wife, like humming bird,
Flitted for pleasure here and there;
He would not check her radiant smile,
	Could not reprove her thoughtless life
But lover still, he strove to bear
	The fears with which his peace was rife

Restless she grew ’neath home’s dull claims,
Insatiate grew her vain desires;
The tender quiet of his face
	Passed o’er her like a shadow cold;
A thought, that leaped like mocking fires—
	“Was he not growing selfish, old?”

“Well, if he chooses to be tied down		"
To dull home circle, tame home songs, 
Why, there’s Virginia and the child,
	Safe company, at any rate.”  
For her the zest-inspiring throngs,
	In part, his fault should expiate.

What wonder then that pity grew 
Slowly within Virginia’s heart?
With gentle care she strove to make
	Home brighter for the fair one’s eyes,
Kept ev’ry troublous thing apart,
	As though her own peace were the prize;

In vain—except the young wife thanked
Virginia in her inmost-heart
For taking charge of dull affaire,
	Grateful indeed that some there were	
Contented to perform a part 		
	Long since distasteful grown to her.

To him, home grew the dearest place,
Full well he strove to weave its charm
Around the lovely wanderer;
	But stronger still the contrast grew—
Lilian, who loosed his guardian arm,
	Virginia, unto duty true.

“Come, Lilian, let us [--]ng to-night.”
Then answered she with weary air,
“I’m going out, and I must dress;
	Banish that cloud that shades your brow;
Sing with Virginia, I don’t care
	To sing that kind of music now.”

What perill for what power lies
In music, richer far than speech;
Who does not know some blessed strain
	That lives, a sacred monitor,
Recalling oft to the heart's reach
	Life's sweetest memories again?

What wonder that in time there grew
Love, pity's sister, in her soul?
Yet like a hidden prisoner,
	No eyes discerned his presence there, 
Her secret lived 'neath her control,
	Faithful ti duty, pure as prayer. 

Yet oft within her mind arose 
The ill-adjusted laws which bind 
The wothy and unworthy, one, 
	While neither happiness secure:
Nor either other bliss may find,
	But life long burden mest endure.

But for the child grown dear to her,
Virginia long ere this had gone,
But something in his clinging love
	Plead to her heart, not yet--not yet--
It held her fast, it led her on,
	Till the release she prayed was met.

Whence came the shaft that laid him low?
Was it the mother’s heart to wake?
Frightened and helpless as a child
	She stood apart—“Virginia, come,
He calls for you, that you might take
	Him in your arms.”  Pallid and dumb.

She raised him in her arms once more;
“Rock me,” he said, then looking ’round,
“Kiss me good night, papa, mamma;
	Virginia, I am going where
I dreamed, and told you—hold me tight—
	I dreamed ’twas you who took me there.”
He laid his check upon her heart,
They hushed their sobs, nor touched his hand:
Virginia’s eyes beamed down in his
	Love, courage, faith; he smiled, and then,
Half dreaming, whispered, “there !” and
	Drew one deep sigh, nor breathed again.
With her life's secret, and its loss,
With empty arms, no longer now
Did duty plead a double cause,
	Nor felt her sacred sorrow yield
License to meet the hallowed love
	Beside the precious dead revealed.

For him, life spread like ocean vast,
False, shining waves that dancing leapt
To changing music ev’ry hour
	Above the treacherous, hungry dcep;
Rude winds in shreds the sails had swept,
	And left him all alone to keep

Watch o’er the frail, dismantled bark,
or Lilian’s soul was like her face,
And both like April’s fleeting day,
	With sudden bursts of shower, then
Its sunshine, carols, and its flowers.
	All beauty, life and warmth again.

He knew that soon her soul would rise
Freer and lighter than before,
And that the sphere whose shining dome
	His hope and love had gilded bright
Was but a hollow, glittering toy,
	A bubble, broken in his sight.

His name—through generations old
Sire unto son had, dying, left
The ancestral home and honored name;
	With him that name would die away,
His household of his son bereft,
	No hope illumed his darkened day.

And as a bird by chill winds driven
Seeks refuge till the storm is spent
In e’en the gnarled and hollow bough,
	So to her kindred, distant, cold,
Virginia for a brief time went,
	Nor dreamed the new life to unfold.

Some idle words that caught her ear,
Disdain, contempt, for some new creed,
Woke a desire, an inquiry—
	“What is this faith so strangely new
And so delusive, that indeed
	Divines fear ’twill their work undo?”


[Column 1]
SOME OF THE REASONS WHY.

	The following is in answer to a letter from a
Gentile lady in Cincinnati, making some in-
quiries in regard to our principles and institu-
tions:
		SALT LAKE CITY, March 23rd, 1884.
DEAR MRS. ELKINS:
	I am sorry your inquiry has been so long neg-
lected, perhaps the fact of my having a fam-
ily of five children and no servant may be a
satisfactory explanation.
	I do not wonder at strangers puzzling over
our state of life, because it is something new,
practically; its history in the Bible is like a
story of the past, respected because within the
sacred pages that have been the only light and
hope of the Christian world.  But what God
has once established can He not establish again,
even though men had lain aside the ancient
customs and even made laws against it?  The
reason that so many are unsatisfied, and some-
times even disgusted with the monogamic sys-

[Column 2]
tem of marriage, is because it is like a house
built upon the sand, with no foundation of di-
vine principle, authority, or promise of hope
of its perpetuity beyond the grave.  The world
has lived for self not God, the present not the
future. I do not feel to be an instructor in so
great a matter, but will try and reply to your
different inquiries according to my own expe-
rience and observance, for I would feel con-
demned to remain silent.
	I was a plural wife two years, and then the
first wife of my husband died, after a brief ill-
ness, being of apoplectic habit. It was with
her full consent (or I would never have entered
her family) also that of her children, that I
became her husband's and their father's
second wife.  During this two years we
never exchanged unkind words; she
was many years my senior, and perhaps
looked on me something as she would have
done on a younger sister.  I always bore in
mind that she had made a great sacrifice of
her personal feelings, through zealous devotion
and conscientious noble principle, that she had
risked all on the altar of her faith, trusting in
God and the honor of her husband and myself
to do our part in this most solemn coven-
ant.
	The woman heart and nature, as well as the
man heart and nature, are the result of genera-
tions of training and a selfish looking out for
self.  Take the Bible from the earth and in a
few centuries, or less, what would the Chris-
tian world become?  Women and men can be
perfectly happy in this order of marriage if 
they are guided by principle, and not by frivol-
ous fancy, or mercenary or ambitious mo-
tives.
	Now, when the evening comes, aud the hus-
band is away?  Well, if the husband is a real
Latter-day Saint his wife or wives,who do not that
evening have his society, know just where he is,
that he is not down town in a saloon,or anywhere
else practicing infidelity to his marriage vows,
and trying to deceive them. They know that
he stands more in awe of his Creator and the
guardian angels that we believe are continually
beside us keeping a faithful record of our
words and deeds, than of all the earthly courts
and laws the libertine fears.  That the loss of
the confidence of his brethren and family
would be his sorest penalty.  This wife would
gather her children around her in order, tran-
quility and happiness, and in quiet industry
employ their time and instill into their minds
that they are the most blessed, most hopeful,
and surest of present and eternal happiness, of
all God's creatures upon the earth. She feels to
give herself and her children to the service of
His plan, the strengthening, enduring and up-
building of His Kingdom, by their influence,
labors, prayers and aspirations.  These themes,
and not the trivial carnal crosses, occupy their
minds.  Not repinings—more knowledge is the
prayer.  Love of man is bondage.  Love of
God and His principles, with a just man, as
God's representative, for companionship, both
with the same mutual aim, righteousness here,
the courts of God hereafter, fill their minds
too well for them to stoop to or mourn for the
phantom joys of changeful, weak humanity,
bestowing or withdrawing.
	I fear I have not answered you after all.
Write again.		Yours truly,
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


Some readers are like the hour-glass (their
reading is as the sand; it runs in and runs out
but leaves not a vestige behind); some like a
sponge, which imbibes everything, and returns
it in the same state only a little dirtier; some
like a jelly-bag which allows all that is good
to pass away, and retains only the refuse and
dregs. The fourth class may be compared to
the slave of Golconda, who casting away all
that is worthless,preserves only the pure gems.
—Coleridge.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: ne copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten opies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., [-]ast Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah

SALT LAKE CITY, - JULY 1, 1884.


THE HOAR AMENDMENT.

	It is even more than "passing strange" that
such a measure as the Hoar amendment to
the Edmunds bill, could by any means have
passed the Senate.  And one cannot help feel-
ing somewhat horror-stricken when considering
to what base ends the law has been made to
band. The fact stands recorded in Congress
that this most extraordinary document did posi-
tively pass the Senate on the 18th of June, 1884.
It is, however, worthy of recognition that there
were certain members of that august body of
men, who had the nobility and the courage to
vote against this most unjust and unscrupulous
measure.  One cannot help admiring and re-
specting such men; who will not for popularity,
influence, or any sinister motive, vote for what
they consider an illegal and unconstitutional
law; who are determined to main [-]in and honor
the principles of the Constitution, framed by the
honorable "fathers of our country" to protect
the people in all the rights and privileges that
pertain to l[-]fe, liberty and the pursuit of happi-
ness, notwiths anding they are opposed to the
patriarchal order of marriage (approved of God
and sanctioned by His prophets in olden times),
which is a religious principle of the Latter-day
Saints who inhabit Utah, and for which they
are called in question in the highest courts in
the nation in which they reside, censured and
dis[-]ranchised, and this not being thought suffi-
cient punishment, they are to receive not on y
further indignities, but to be forced, if possible,
into a condition of abject serfdom, taxed to
maintain laws they have no part in making,
and rulers they can have no right in choosing.
All this and more in a country which professes
religious liberty and offers a shelter for the op-
pressed of all nations, and in a Territory which
they themselves have rendered habitable by
toil, industry and diligence, driven as they
were by the exigencies of their situation,
brought about by mobs and violence, into a
wilderness where only wild beasts and savage
hordes roamed at will, yet glad to escape from
persecution and find a haven of peace an[-] rest
far from civilization, home and friends, that they
might worship God according to the dictates of
their own conscience, and obey the principles
revealed to them without fear or molestation.
The blessing of God having descended upon this
people in the desert land, and we having greatly
increased and multiplied in numbers, the anger,
indignation and jealousy of many of the over-
pious and unprincipled men and women of this
great Republic has been kindled into fever heat,
and as year after year rolled by and all measures
and schemes formed against this "despised peo-
ple" failed in checking the growth and develop-
ment of "Mormon" interest, it began to becon-

[Column 2]
sidered a difficult matter, a problem, a knotty
question, and one of the utmost importance to
get rid of.  Great, wise and learned men have
wrestled with this matter in vain, and still the
little grain of mustard seed sown in obscurity,
and insignificant, has grown and become a great
tree, and its branches have spread far and wide,
and have given shelter to many people, and it
is alarming in the eyes of the world, who know
not the marvellous work and wonder which is be-
ing brought to pass in this the last dispensation
of the fulness of times.
	But these are themes one can go on elaborat-
ing to almost any extent, for they are illimitable,
but suffice it to say, the tree cannot be rooted
up, or if it is, the scattering of innumberable in-
finitesimalseeds will "take root and flourish,"
and it will be found impossible to crush it out of
existence.
	When o e considers that this nation in dealing
with the momentous question of so termed
"Mormonism" is measuring arms with the
Almighty, it seems absurd to notice what is be-
ing done, but when one contemplates the doings
of men in these matters, and considers the bear-
ing it has upon men and women, causing suffer-
ing mental and physical, one is forced to deal
with the matter of aggression in defense of
rights, civil, political and religious.  When the
strong oppress the weak, when the nation
makes specific laws for certain classes of its
actual citizens, is it not time for rational
men and woman to resort to all just ex-
pedients to ward off and avert the calamity?
for it can be termed nothing else.  Every
woman interested in her country and her
own individual rights must be roused to
serious thought upon the action of the Sen-
ate in the passing of this amendment.  It
is perhaps true that the House will never go
so far as to commit the same error, but that
does not lessen the heavy responsibility taken
upon themselves by the men who voted for this
prohibitory law.
	Section 7 of this bill abolishes woman suffrage
in this Territory.  This is the little insect that
will sting sharply the men who voted for this
amendment, for although there are many suffra-
gists that hate "Mormonism" and the "Mor-
mons" as much as these same Senators, yet labor-
ing as they are and have been to obtain the bal-
lot, they will fight to the last any measure which
proposed to disfranchise women who have had
the right of franchise bestowed upon them, es
pecially as they are well aware all women are
already deprived of this right, who have ever at
any time been plural wives.  Senator Hoar has
made a great blunder in allowing that section
to come before the Senate, and he will lose cas[-]e
with his own party, and be censured and re-
proached for this egrigious folly of thus over-
shooting the mark; in other words he has acted
against his own avowed principles of right and
justice.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE Woman's Journal published in Boston,
dated June 21st, in reference to the vote upon the
Utah Bill in the Senate, after giving particulars
and names of men who voted yeas and nays,
says:
	"It now goes to the House. If this bill, with
the anti suffrage clause in it, should become law,
it will be a shameful injustice. Righteous
and equitable legislation directed against, poly-
gamy should be welcomed by all who have the
good of women at heart; but a law like this,
manifestly and glaringly unjust, does not de-
serve to succeed."


WOMEN'S HOME MISSIONARY
WORK.

	Sisters M. Isabella Horne, Elmina Taylor, and
Louie Felt left this city Wednesday morning,
June 12th, to make a tour through Millard
Stake, and hold meetings with the Relief So-
cieties, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
Traveled 400 miles and held twenty-two meet-
ings. At Leamington Sister Felt organized a
Primary Association on the 12th inst., with
Mrs. Mary Pay, President, and at Fillmore a re-
organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. was effected,
and Mrs. Delilah K. Olsen was appointed Presi-
dent.
	The sisters visited and held three meetings in
each settlement in the Stake except Leaming-
ton and Oak City, where only two meetings
were held. Sister Elizabeth Yates, of Scipio,
met the sisters at Leamington, and accompan-
ied them in their visit through the Stake. The
bishops everywhere were interested in the work
they were laboring to accomplish, and gave
them a hearty welcome, rendering them all the
assistance in their power. President Hinckley
was also much gratified at meeting with them
at Deseret, and also at Filmore, and urged them
to come again.
	Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith; Margaret P.
Young and Elizabeth Howard went to Grants-
ville on Friday, June 13, to attend the Sister's
Conference of Tooele Stake, which commenced
on the 14th and closed on the 15th. There was
a Primary Fair held also, which was a very suc-
cessful affair, and the little children's work,
much of it, was very artistic and particularly
well executed.
	On Sunday, June 15th, a special meeting
was held at Granger Ward, for the purpose of
organizing a Relief Society in the ward, which
has only recently been set off and fully organ-
ized. Bishop D. McCrae presided over the
meating. His Counselor, John Banden, acted
as secretary. Opening prayer by Counselor
Abram Sorenson. The Bishop proceeded to or-
ganize by placing before the meeting the names
of Sister Mary E. Porter as President; Sister
Elizabeth Park, First Counselor; Sister Mary A.
Bess, Second Counselor; Sister Catharine Mak-
ay, Secretary; Sister Betsey Hall, Assistant
Secretary; Sister Phyldes Warr, Treasurer. The
nominations were unanimously approved. The
officers were set apart by the Bishop and his
Counselors. The meeting was afterwards ad-
dressed by Sisters B. W. Smith, M. W. Wilcox
and E. B. Wells, who were present by invita-
tion. The sisters who had just been appointed
to office each expressed a willingness to perform
the duty assigned, and try to magnify the office
to which they had been called.
	The Seventeenth annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society at South Cottonwood was held June
17th, at the Ward meeting house at 10
a.m., which was well filled with sisters; a
few brethren were also in the audience.
	Mrs. Jeanette B. Cahoon, a very able and effi-
cient president, who has filled that office from
its organization, presided, and great credit is due
her for the active as well as the spiritual labor
she has accomplished during that time.
	The minutes and reports were very good; Sis-
ter Harriet Ann Walker is a competent Secre-
tary, though she has not been long in the office.
Sisters E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and Dr. Ro-
mania B Pratt, who had been invited to attend,
each addressed the meeting, though Sister Eliza
occupied most of the time, speaking upon
union, the duties of teachers, the importance of
their work, the necessity of progression the de-
sire we have to know more of our Father and
mother in heaven; referred to our consenting to
come here and take up our abode, forgetting the


past, in order, to prove our integrity to our hea-
venly parents, and exhorted the sisters to study
the word of God and seek to draw near to Him;
and gave much good instruction on various mat-
ters.
	Sister M. A. Rawlins occupied a few mo-
ments and entreated the sisters to attend their
meetings.
	At 2 p.m. the Y. L. M. I. A. convened at the
same place, and after the usual exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, Sister Eliza addressed the young
ladies. She urged them to lay a foundation for
future life and happiness, by becoming good
house keepers; entreated them to be practically
useful, as well as to learn accomplishments, and
to prepare themselves for the great work that
lay before them; attend to their meetings, and
seek to attain to excellence in all things truly
noble and elevating.
	Sister E. B. Wells was the next speaker, her
remarks were mostly in reference to the all im-
portant matter of understanding their own or-
ganization, and what was essential to life and
health, and the best methods of attaining to the
full development of every faculty with which
God had endowed them for the fulfilment of
their probation here on earth.
	Sister Jane Freeze made a few remarks very
suggestive to the young ladies, and was followed
by Sister Maggie C. Shipp, who bore a faithful
testimony to what she had received in regard to
the truth. Her words were earnest and her
manner most emphatic.
	After these sisters had finished speaking, Sis-
ter Eliza R. S. Smith made some explanations
in regard to a reorganization of the Y. L. M. I.
A., and presented the resignation of the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Annie Thompson, to be voted upon.
The resignation was accepted, and the following
officers were proposed, and a unanimous vote
was carried, Sister Eliza officiating in reorganiz-
ing:
	Isabella Benbow Evison, President; Annie E.
Labun and Annie Thompson, Counselors; Rosa
A. Kelch, Secretary; M. Antoinette Cahoon,
Assistant Secretary; Anna Smith, Treasurer.
	Bishop Rawlins addressed the young ladies;
told them those who preside must never tire if
they expect to be successful. The Bishop and
his Counselor set the officers apart. Meeting
adjourned for one year. Benediction by Coun-
selor Wheeler.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 21


[Column 1]
LETTER XIII.

LONDON AND PARIS.

	We arrived in London last night, after a long
and somewhat tiresome ride from Paris, which,
however, was much more pleasant than we ex-
pected it would be, for we had only two hours on
the English Channel, and that without one
touch of sea-sickness. Some of our compan-
ions were not nearly so well blessed as we, and
the slight unsteady motion of the boat quite up-
set them.
	You, I know, are anxious to hear more of our
visit in Paris, so I wont trouble you with any-
thing further about our journey to, or arrival in
London, but will try to go back to our first few
days in the glorious French capital, if my mem-
ory will serve me well enough.
	When I last wrote it was a rainy, disagreeable
day (excuse reference to the weather), but the
next day, Tuesday, was sunny and bright, and
we started out early for the Louvre, notwith-
standing our guide book recommends a prelim-
inary drive the first day, and the rainy days to
be reserved for the picture galleries. As we
were not weather prophets, and could not tell
when the rainy days would come, if come they
must, and as we took a preliminary walk the

[Column 2]
first day and located ourselves and the sights we
were most anxious to see, we decided to follow
our own inclinations, and visit those places
which held most interest for us first, in case
something should occur to shorten our stay, so,
as I before stated, we started first for the Louvre.
This is the most elegant palace in France, and
I think in the world. It was commenced some
few centuries ago, and each succeeding monarch
has endeavored to complete it, but it still re-
mains unfinished. At length when the original
design was almost carried out the Communists
attempted to destroy the whole edifice, but suc-
ceeded in their dreadful design only to burn one
wing; that, however, contained the valuable
library, and was an irreparable loss. After a
brief survey of the outside of the palace we en-
tered the picture gallery, and wandered from
one hall to another in admiration of this most
valuable collection.
	The Italian masters are exceedingly well re-
presented here, but so [---] I have seen, Dres-
den possesses the gem of Italian art, in Raphael's
Sistine Madonna. I cannot begin to enumerate
or describe the beautiful pictures of this gallery,
but can only say they all are most wonderful
and rare gems of art, and gave me the most ex-
quisite pleasure to have the privilege of seeing
them. The principal pride of the Louvre, how-
ever, is the collection of statuary, and the price-
less treasure is the Venus of Milo. It is a work
of art one wants to see once, only to long to see
again. You would hardly believe such power
of expression, such beauty of form, could be
wrought from a piece of marble. Our first day
in the Louvre we occupied in seeing all that was
possible, and locating the different objects, so
that our next visit we could spend in the rooms
containing the principal treasures. It took us a
long time the first day, and we left much fati-
gued. The place is so large that they say it
takes two hours to walk through the rooms with-
out stopping, so you can fancy how long it would
take one to look at the innumerable pictures,
statues, jewels, models, etc., that the palace con-
tains.
	Much of our time, and I believe our pleasant-
est moments, were spent in this gallery, but we
also visited the other art museums; among the
first the Luxembourg, with the gardens laid out
in the old Renaissance style. With these we were
particularly delighted, but with the art collec-
tion most dreadfully disappointed. The muse-
um contains only works of modern masters, and
they seemed to me wholly unworthy a place in
any museum. However, as I don't profess to b
an art critic, and people nowadays seem to ad-
mire these glaring sketches, perhaps I had bet-
ter not attempt to say anything further on the
subject. The palace was filled with students,
copying and studying the style of the modern
masters. One of our last days we went to Ver-
sailles. Oh! how I wish you could have been
with us. It was a most delightful day, and as
we walked round the old magnificent garden,
with its lakes, forests, fountains, statues,
orangery, terraces and flowers, I thought how
much you would enjoy it all, and said we could
never get mother back to the city if she once
were in this garden.
	The palace itself from the outside is not very
imposing, but the gardens are the most beauti-
ful in France, and the palace and grounds to-
gether cost the court of Louis XIV the fabulous
sum of a thousand million francs. The palace
is decorated almost entirely with portraits of the
different French rulers, and pictures illustrating
the history of the glories of France, so here, for
the first time, after our arrival in Paris, we saw
some honor shown to Napoleon; room after
room was hung with pictures of his battles and
scenes of his life. Many pictures of himself

[Column 3]
and of Maria Louise, but only one of the Em
press Josephine. Little honor, it seems to me,
do the French show to those to whom honor is
due.
	The most magnificent hall in the palace is one
extending along the east side and looking over
the garden from seventeen different windows.
In this hall King Wilhelm, of Prussia, was made
Emperor of Germany, when the Germans were
in possession of the palace in '71. Opening from
this room towards the south side is a beautiful
suite of rooms, which have been used as the
chambers and drawing rooms of Marie Antion-
ette, Marie Theresa and Marie Leczinska. We
wandered, rather accidentally, into a hall which
led into the apartments of Marie Antoinette.
This is the only part of the palace not open free
to visitors, and shown by guides. The guide in
waiting hailed us and ushered us in. Such lit-
tle gems of rooms they were; the whole suite
scarcely larger than one of the other rooms of
the palace, and filled with rare little treasures
of this unhappy queen. They were draped in
pale blue, orange and red brocaded silks. Every-
thing, even the bath-room, unique, elegant and
beautiful; but in one was a mirror where one
could see herself without a head, thus showing
the fate of the fair and beautiful Marie Antoin-
ette. The pretty little rooms remind one of the
exquisite taste and elegance of their possessor;
but also bring a feeling of sadness as we think
of her dreadful fate, and then the other horrors
of the revolution. Not a palace or a beautiful
place in Paris but recalls either some horror of
the revolution, or of the Commune of '71, and
their monuments and fountains, with all their
sparkling beauty, fail to hide the terrible scenes
of these times, or to wash from history the
stains of blood.
	Of course we visited the tomb of Napoleon,
and the Hotel des Invalides. This was one of
our most important days. The church of the In-
valides really consists of two parts; the Dome, and
the church of St. Louis. The sarcophagus is placed
in the former in a deep made crypt, and the
pale blue light issuing from the stained windows
above gives a most solemn aspect to the place.
We stayed here some time, thinking of the vic-
tories of Napoleon as they were recalled by the
sixty faded flags, which are placed around his
tomb, and left rather reluctantly for the Jardin
des Plan'e, where we spent the remainder of the
day.
	Our visit was a most delightful one, and we
enjoyed every minute of it, still I did not
leave Paris reluctantly.
	Yesterday I stopped writing to go and hear
the Rev. Dr. Parker, in Holborn Church, and
after that we visited Westminster Abbey. Of
this, however, I will say no more at present.
This morning I am going to the Tower. John
Q. is well acquainted with London, and
shows me around like one who had always lived
here. A week from to-morrow we expect to
sail for home, and then only think how short a
time and we shall all be together again. I for-
got to mention that we saw Longfellow's bust
in Westminster, in the Poet's Corner just to
the left of Dryden's monument. It is a very fine
piece of work, and says, "Placed here by the
English admirers of an American poet."
	Much love for all, father, mother, sisters,
brothers, and precious little Q.
								ANNIE.


Y. L. M. I. A. BRIGHAM CITY.

	On the 11th of June, with Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, left this city to attend the Young Ladies'
Conference and Fair of Box Elder Stake, in
Brigham City. The weather was delightful and
the orchards and farms all along the route pre-


sented a most charming picture. After leaving
the city with its bustle and noise we enjoyed
the ride through the beautiful farms and green
fields along the way.
	Upon arrive we were received and enter-
tained by Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, President, and
were soon refreshed and ready to attend the
meeting in the afternoon. After the usu-
al exercises very interesting and beneficial
remarks were made by Sister Howard, fol-
lowed by a sister from Willard and many of the
young ladies.
	It indeed filled one with amazement to hear
these beautiful young ladies bear such testimon-
ies, and exhibit such knowledge, intelligence
and self control. I feel sure it would encourage
some of the young ladies, who never take part
in these associations, if they could have heard
the many beautiful thoughts that were express-
ed that day. It at once proves the benefits that
can be obtained from these meetings. They
enable us to build each other up, and develop
those faculties within us, which we knew not of
ourselves.
	Closing remarks were made by the President
of the Y. L. M. I. A., after which the meeting
was adjourned.
	In the evening we had the pleasure of attend-
ing the fair. I may truly say I was surprised
to see the excellent taste displayed in the ar-
rangement and in the articles exhibited, and the
willingness of the young ladies to assist in all
good works. Some of the articles were really
works of art, and all showed the industry and
wonderful energy of the young ladies. Home-
made hats just as pretty as could be purchased
at any of our millinery shops, trimmed in ex-
quisite taste, so[-]a cushions, baskets, netting,
bead work, embroidery of the finest kind on
homemade linen mats, tidles of all descriptions,
slippers, wax work, all kinds of beautiful needle
work, artificial flowers, collars, drawn work,
[---], bed spreads of drawn and netted work,
carved wood, quilts, netted curtains, pillow
s[-]ams, laces and collars, sketches in penci[-], and
oil paintings, and so many beautiful and use[-]ul
articles that it would be impossible to mention
or do justice in describing them. The Indians
from Thistle Valley sent some very nice articles,
showing that the work among them has not
been in vain. One of the young Indian women
sent some needle work; a baby's white dress
[-]ucked and trimmed with embroidery. Other ar-
ticles, such as woollen stockings, aprons and
everything in the way of bead embroidery,
purses, cushions, hand satchel, moccasins, and
all were quite handsome; also copy books filled
with their writing, and it would do well for
some of us to practice until we could form our
letters as well, for they were excellent.
	The fair was conducted by the young ladies,
and the contributors were all from the stake.
The lower end of the room was fitted up for re-
freshments, where they served the most delicious
strawberries, ice cream, cake and fruits. Alto-
gether the fair was a thorough success, and re-
flects great credit on the President and young
ladies
	May we have many more such meetings and
fairs, and may God bless all those who are seek-
ing and working for the good of these societies
and associations. I enjoyed my visit very much
indeed, and have a great admiration for those
young ladies who have shown such nobility and
courage to meet together for mutual improve-
ment.						LOUIE WELLS.


22	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FORTY-EIGHTH CONGRESS.

SENATE.

	Washington, 18.—Consideration of the Utah
bill was resumed. Hoar offered an amend-


ment to strike out the clause abolishing woman
suffrage in Utah; rejected, 17 ayes, 34 noes.
Those voting in the affirmative were Blair,
Bower, Brown, Conger, Cullom, Dawes, Dolph,
George, Hoar, Lapham, Manderson, Mitchell,
Palmer, Pike, Sherman, Vance and Wilson.
	Brown explained his vote by saying he was
personally altogether opposed to woman suf-
frage, but regarding it as an entirely local mat-
ter: and as it had been established in a territory
he would vote against the United States gov-
ernment interfering with it. The bill then
passed. 33 yeas, 15 nays, as follows, yeas: Al-
lison, Beck, Bower, Cameron (Wisconsin), Col-
quist, Conger, Cullom, Dawes, Dolph, Ed-
munds, Fair, Frye, Garland, Harrison, Ingalls,
Jackson, Jones (Fla.), Jones (Nev.), Lapham,
McMillan, McPherson, Mahone, Manderson,
Miller (Cal.), Mitchell, Merrill, Palmer, Pike,
Pugh, Riddleberger, Sawyer, Voorhees and
Wilson, 33. Nays, Bayard, Brown, Coke,
George, Hampton, Jones, Kenna, Lamar,Max-
ey, Morgan, Pendleton, Ransom, Vance, Vest
and Walker, 15.


[Column 1]
LETTER TO MRS. B. A. EVANS,
LEHI.

A CONSOLATORY COMMUNICATION.

POSTGASSE 36, Bern, Switzerland,
			April 29, 1884.

	Dear Sister—I trust you will excuse my pre-
sumption in addressing you, with whom I have
not the pleasure of an acquaintance at all; and
though it is far from my desire at the present
time to recall the sad and harrowing circum-
stances of the past few weeks in your grief-
stricken feelings, yet I consider it no less a
duty than a pleasure to make a brief report to
you of the manner in which your lamented son
and our sincerely-mourned brother conducted
himself during the short mission he was per-
mitted to fill in our midst.
	In obedience to the call made of him at the
October Conference, 1883, he left his home and
beloved ones for a mission in Switzerland and
Germany, and reached this city, after short
visits with his fellow Elders in London and
Paris, on Sunday morning the 11th of Novem-
ber. In our evening meeting of that day he
bore his testimony to the truth of the work he
had traveled so far to proclaim, and expressed
the buoyant hope that he would soon be able to
talk to the people in their own language.
	The next day I gave the Elders their ap-
pointments to the different fields of labor, also
such instructions as I thought appropriate. At
the close of the meeting Brother Evans re-
quested that we administer to him, as he felt a
lassitude and weariness, also a cold and other
symptoms of an approaching fever. This we
did unitedly. Next morning, Tuesday the 13th,
had been selected for the departure of the
brethren, but as his journey was so long—to
Berlin—I endeavored to persuade him to stay
a few days longer with us until he had com-
pletely recovered. He preferred to go, how-
ever, his ambition to begin work being so great
that he could not feel comfortable in remain-
ing after having received his appointment. Be-
fore leaving them that night (the brethren all
slept in the office) I got him to promise me
that if he did not feel better in the morning
he would not undertake the journey, and so
bade him good night. When I came next
morning he was not present, and I was inform-
ed that he felt better and had decided to go
with the others. After he reached Berlin I
heard once or twice from him personally, also
from his companions who came to Conference
at Christmas and reported him then as getting
better. Ten days later I was shocked to hear
from the Elder who went there to join him,
that his fever was still unbroken and that a
change was imperatively necessary.

[Column 2]
	I wrote to Prest. Smith at Liverpool at once
and he summoned him to that place, whither
he proceeded, accompanied by one of our El-
ders, by the next steamer. Prest. Smith wrote
me twice that he was improving, and then I
read in the Star that he had gone home. The
next news was the mournful and wholly unex-
pected intelligence that he was no more. This
was a great blow to us all, particularly those
who had traveled here with him and learned to
know him.
	He showed himself a remarkably quick and
intellectual spirit, the possessor of unusual
ability and energy, and, had he been spared,
would undoubtedly have proven himself one of
the best missionaries ever sent out. His heart
seemed to be all in the work placed upon him,
and he had no rest, even when sick, unless he
could be studying his books. He would have
grasped the language in a very short time, and
what was still better he was always able to give
a scriptural and reasonable ground for the
hope he had within him. But He who rules
the universe felt to call him hence, and we,
his sorrowing friends, have to subject ourselves
to the decree.
	Happy is he who left us, for his race though
short was well and nobly run; and happy may
we be, who remain, if we are able to say from
the depths of our bruised yet willing and obe-
dient hearts: "Thy will be done; the Lord giv-
eth, the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name
of the Lord."
	I feel myself incompetent to offer any words
of consolation; but I assure you, dear Sister
Evans, that my prayers have been offered up
and will still be that the comforting spirit, of
whom it is written that it robs death of its
sting and the grave of its victory, may be be-
stowed upon you, and that you and your be-
reaved family may feel the near and hallowed
presence of Him who has promised to wipe
away all tears from the eyes of His people. And
may the bright example of him who is gone to
join his departed loved ones and his brethren,
ever remain as a shining beacon for the young
men of Israel, that they may ever be found
ready warriors for the cause of truth to assist
in putting its opposing hordes to fight and its
enemies under their feet.
	My wife and my associates here join me in
expressing our condolence, and our sincere wish
that in this hour of trial the friend of the
afflicted may be near to comfort and sustain
you. With the kindest regards, I have the hon-
or to subscribe myself,
		Your Brother in the Gospel,
						JOHN Q. CANNON.


FROM A GENTILE.

		APPLE GROVE, Ala., Feb. 15, 1884.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I am a regular reader of your valuable pa-
per. Although I live away out here in Ala-
bama, I know something of the doctrine and
teaching and practices of that persecuted peo-
ple called Mormons. I have never been among
them, but have read several books and papers
that give me a pretty correct knowledge of
the Mormon character, and I admire their
magnanimity, self-denial, industry, and for-
bearance towards their enemies. They have
built up a great State in the barren regions of
the Rocky Mountains, under the most unfavor-
able circumstances, and suffered many priva-
tions and hardships for the sake of religious
liberty; and still they can't be let alone. And
I find from reading newspapers from the other
way that their worst enemies are of that class
spoken of in the Bible as the salt of the earth
that has lost its savor, and said to be worthless
and good for nothing but to be trampled under
the feet of men. And God in His wisdom
may do that way for them yet, for they seem to
have lost the copy and standard of righteous-


ness, and the spirit of the Gospel as taught by
Jesus Christ. This is the way it appears to one
outside who is not biased by creeds. But from
my knowledge of the Bible and the Mormons,
they have more of the true spirit of Christiani-
ty than any order of people I know. Why
not let them alone? Is it on account of their
plural marriage system? It does look like the
ladies ought to be allowed to contract for them-
selves in the all-important matter of marriage,
and let the laws of God as revealed in the book
of human nature regulate things.
	Now, Mrs. Editor, if this is worth printing
in the EXPONENT, let it come, I am not
ashamed to own the opinion I have formed
about the Mormons.
					JOHN M. RUSSELL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT 23


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	We live in a somewhat out-of-the-way place
and I suppose you do not hear from us very
often. Our Relief Society is in a prosperous
condition; it was organized in January, 1883,
and has continued to improve since that time.
Our worthy President, Sister Catherine Hatch,
is doing all she can to instruct us in the great
latter-day work, which is still rolling on. The
Lord says that man cannot stop its progress,
and it seems that His words are being fulfilled
every day of our lives. The whole world is
arrayed against us as a people, and they are
always planning something for our overthrow,
but we still continue to grow and improve. It
seems to me we ought to be very thankful
to think that the Lord has enlightened our
minds enough to comprehend the truth of His
work. We are blest above all other people, if
the world is against us. I feel that the Lord
is mightier than all, and if we are faithful He
will bring us off conquerors.
	We have a Y. L. M. I. A. here; it was or-
ganized in Feb., 1884, and it is doing very
well, considering the short time it has been or-
ganized. The young ladies deserve credit for
punctual attendance.
	Our Sunday School and Primary is in a
prosperous condition, and the young are pre-
paring themselves for a noble and great work.
Their privileges of learning are far ahead of
what their parents had. My prayers are that we
may all continue to improve and be thankful
for the blessings that we enjoy. I wish the EX-
PONENT success.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
									L. L. S.
	Woodruff, Arizona, May 1st, 1884.


[Column 1]
R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

RICHFIELD.

	Minutes of the Eighteenth Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Sevier Stake,
held at Richfield, March 14th, 1884, President
Elizabeth Bean presiding. Usual opening ex-
ercises. President Bean said she was pleased
to feel that a good spirit had met with us, even
though none of the leading sisters were with
us.
	Minutes of the previous conference read and
accepted, also the statistical and financial re-
port. Five societies were verbally reported to
be in a prospering condition, and doing what
they could towards assisting in rolling on the
latter-day work, and other good instructions of-
fered by the Presidents of the Societies.
	Sister Thirza Thurber felt to encourage the
sisters to live near to God, to thoroughly study
the principles of the Gospel and learn all we
could, to set a good example before our child-
ren; bore testimony to the good spirit one felt
when working in the temple. Referred to Bro.

[Column 2]
Grant's vision; hoped God would bless and aid
us.
	Sister Jane Spencer felt well to meet in con-
ference; thought we should store our minds with
useful knowledge, that we might be enabled to
converse intelligently, and teach our children
to be good and praiseworthy.
	Prest. Bean was glad to hear of the societies
being so willing to perform the duties assigned
them; desired the sisters to be united and not
allow nationality to separate them into classes;
desired them to visit the Y. L. M. I. A. and P.
A.; appointed some to go as missionaries to
these associations. Said the Lord would help
us if we would try to help ourselves; we should
work together and love one another.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock. Singing.
Benediction.
	2 p.m. Singing, prayer offered by Bishop
G. W. Bean, singing. Two other societies re-
ported as doing well, being united and anxious
to perform the missions assigned them.
	Sisters E. Bean and C. A. Hunt spoke upon
the subject of reports, desiring the secretaries
to study the subject; gave some instructions and
illustrations upon the subject.
	Bros. Powell, Poulson and Bean encouraged
and instructed us in regard to our duties and
the course we should pursue. Bore testimony
to the noble purpose for which the societies
were organized, and the great good they had
done; commended their labors, energy and
faithfulness.
	Bro. Marsing encouraged the societies to go
forward in their labors, train their children in
the principles of the Gospel; explained some
good points in Apostle Grant's vision.
	Bishop Joseph S. Horne felt highly pleased
with what he had heard; could see a great im-
provement; we had no time to idle. Discour-
aged back-biting—by indulging in it we do
wrong to ourselves and others.
	Sister Bean made a few closing and interest-
ing remarks. Conference adjourned until the
12th of June; 1884. Singing, Benediction by
Joseph S. Horne.
					ANNIE L. BEAN,
						Asst. Secretary.

GENTILE VALLEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We were organized as a Relief Society of
Mormon Ward on September 3rd, 1881, Sister
Sarah S. Richards, President; Ann Hale and
Anna Folkmann, Counselors. Since that time
we have done our best offering our mite wher-
ever it was most needed; we have donated to
the Logan Temple, also to the Deseret Hospi-
tal. We have some wheat on hand, and the
sisters all have a good spirit and try to go to
meeting as often as possible, though the people
are so scattered, and the men at present are so
busy with their summer's work, it is impossible
for the sisters to attend regularly. Apostle Mo-
ses Thatcher, Bro. Wm. Hendricks and Bro.
Parkinson held two meetings here last week,
giving the people some very good advice; they
appointed Bro. John B. Thatcher, Bishop, Alma
Hale and Arthur D. Young, Counselors, our
former Bishop, Solomon H. Hale being promo-
ted to the office of First Counselor to the Pres-
ident of the Idaho Stake.
	Our crops are looking well, and although
times are unusually dull, and money scarce, yet
we anticipate more prosperous times in the fu-
ture, and hope for the blessings that seem to
follow the saints generally.
	I will close, wishing you every success.
				MELLIE PECK, Secretary.

MONTPELIER.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The fifth anniversary of the organization of
our Primary Association took place to-day,

[Column 3]
May 31st, 1884, in the following order: Meet-
ing of the Association at 10 a.m., with a large
attendance of children, and a goodly number
of the parents, also the ward authorities.
	Meeting called to order by President Ann
Bunney, singing by the children: prayer by
Counselors David Osborne, singing; the Secre-
tary then read the report of the association for
the year ending May 21st, 1884, which was
very creditable, showing the number of meet-
ings, number of members enrolled, average at-
tendance, etc.; the time was then occupied for
one hour with recitations, songs, dialogues, etc.;
when Counselor F. M. Winters, D. Osborne,
and C. H. Bridges each occupied a short time
in making such remarks as were calculated to
encourage the members of the association.
	President Bunney then announced to the
children that we would have a half hour re-
cess for the purpose of arranging a bounteous
picnic.
	At 2 p.m. the benches were carried out and
the little folks were permitted to participate in
the merry dance, which was a great source of
enjoyment to them. After dancing a couple of
hours President Bunney and her counselors, as-
sisted by others of the sisters, treated the
children to candy, cakes and nuts, which the
children of course enjoyed.
	At 6 p.m. our amusements were brought to
a close, when all went home rejoicing.
	Our association numbers 132 enrolled mem-
bers, and the attendance was on this occasion
136. We have excellent meetings, and our
President and counselors are doing all in thier
power to advance our association in the scale
of intelligence.
				MARY M. OSBORNE,
							Secretary.

INVERARY.

	Our Primary Association here in this small
settlement numbers 115 members, and there is
generally a full attendance. We had a very
enjoyable time on the 7th of June. In the
forenoon there were speeches, recitations and
songs; all acquitted themselves well. The fixed
attention of both people and children during
all the exercises was pleasing.
	In the afternoon the little feet kept time in
the merry dance. Perfect order prevailed, and
all went home satisfied that the rising genera-
tion of Inverary would be an honor to Zion.
		EMMA E. JENSON, President,
		FLORA A. RUSSELL,
		ANNIE HYATT,		Counselors.

CEDAR BUTTE, ONEIDA COUNTY, IDAHO.

DEAR EDITOR:

	Owing to our isolated situation we see but
few communications from this part of the
country in your valuable paper, hence the lib-
erty I take in penning a few lines to you, hop-
ing you will be kind enough to give them space
in your paper.
	We are near 250 miles north of Salt Lake
City, and notwithstanding the visits of the
Apostles are few and far between, the Latter-
day Saints here are doing as well as in many
of the older settlements, where they have
much better chances. On the 2nd of April
the sisters of this place met and completed the
organization of our Relief Society, with Sister
Mary A. Green. President; Jeanette Pool and
Amina A. Stephens, Counselors; Mary A.
Shippeu, Secretary; and Harriet Bybee, Assis-
tant Secretary. Our Sunday Schools are well
attended and ably managed, the Improvement
Associations are up to the times.
	On the evening of the 21st the young folks
had a grand jollification under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of this place, consisting of
dialogues, recitations, songs, duets, trios, quar-
tettes, etc.; the little ones performed their parts
splendidly and in a manner which did credit


to the management and showed great care in
training. It would be useless to attempt to tell
all that took place and describe how all per-
formed and who did best, for all did excellent-
ly; it might not be out of the way to make men-
tion of the song, "I'll be a little Mormon,"
sung by Miss Sadie Stephens, aged nine years,
and accompanied by her brother, Wm. W.,
aged thirteen, with the violin. The piece was
rendered in splendid style and elicited great
applause. Rhoda Bybee gave a recitation
which produced much merriment, as it was
rendered in a style entirely peculiar to herself.
"Kind words can never die" was rendered by
seven little girls aged from six to eleven years,
and their sweet voices blending with the notes
of the organ produced strains that were truly
akin to heaven.
	The evening passed agreeably, pleasantly,
and profitably, and all went to their homes
wiser if not better. Wishing the EXPONENT
every success,
	I remain, your sister in the Gospel,
				EVA OLSEN, Secretary.

FIRST WARD, SALT LAKE CITY.

	The young ladies of the First Ward held
their yearly meeting on Wednesday, April
16th, 1884. Some very interesting remarks
were made by Sisters Zina Young, Elmina Tay-
lor, Mary Freeze, Elizabeth Howard, Sarah
Graham, Margaret Steel and Annie Brown.
About forty sisters met at the house of Presi-
dent Graham and partook of a bounteous re-
past, preparatory to starting to meeting.
				FLORA MUSSER, Secretary.

FIRST WARD, PROVO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of the First Ward of
Provo is in a flourishing condition. There are
seventy names enrolled as members. Average
attendance between thirty and forty. We have
a paper called the Diadem once in two weeks,
which the young ladies write pieces for. Our
President, Pauline Hardy, is always punctual
at her meetings, and tries to make them inter-
esting as well as instructive; in fact all the
young ladies are up and awake to their duties,
and bear faithful testimonies to this great work
in which we, as children of God, are engaged.
	In financial affairs we are not behind the
other associations; we have donated $50 to the
Stake Tabernacle, also some to the Salt Lake
Temple and Deseret Hospital, and are now go-
ing to help build the Brigham Young Acad-
emy by donation. The EXPONENT comes regu-
larly to hand, and we are always happy to re-
ceive it.
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPON-
ENT and the best interests of Zion, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			MARY STEWART, Secretary.


24	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SISTER EVELINE MATTHEWS
SHORT.

	Sister Eveline Matthews Short, beloved wife of Au-
gustus Short, died May 17th, 1884, after giving birth to
a daughter which was still-born. Sister Short was
born about the year 1852, somewhere between Utah and
California. She belonged to one of the tribes west of
Utah, as her parents were Lamanites. She was stolen
from her parents by the Walker Utes, when about three
years old and taken into the southern part of Utah,
where she was adopted into the family of Bishop Grover,
of Kanarrah, and received a good education. She was a
faithful and true Latter-day Saint, and died with the as-
surance of a glorious resurrection with the redeemed of
the Lord.
	The funeral services were held at the North Ogden
meeting house, on the 19th of May, 1884, in the presence
of a large number of friends who had come to pay the
last tribute of respect to their departed sister. The ser-
vices were conducted under the direction of Elder Robt.
G. Berrett. After the usual opening exercises Elde


Amos Maycock delivered an appropriate address. The
speaker rejoiced in the Gospel which placed all on an
equality. There is no distinction made and no such
thing as a special privileged class in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. Elder Maycock further referred to circumstances
surrounding the early life of our departed sister, who
was a descendant of the Lamanites, and spoke at length
upon the promises that were contained in the Book of
Mormon concerning the remnant of people who once
inhabited this land, and of the important part they are
to take in this great work when a nation will be born
in a day. They will not waver in their faith as we do.
	Elder R. G. Berrett had only a short acquaintance with
Sister Short, but he was satisfied she was a good, true
and faithful Latter-day Saint. No one could have more
joy and satisfaction in the Gospel. She did not covet
the wealth of the world; her whole soul was wrapped
up in her religion, her greatest desire being to know
whether the Book of Mormon was a true record. In
answer to prayer and fasting the Lord gave her a testi-
mony of its truth. Her wish was to raise a family, but
in the providence of the Lord she has been called away
in the bloom of womanhood.

	Many more good things were said suggestive of the
regard in which our dead sister was held, and also
words of condolence were spoken to the husband and
relatives. The cortege was then formed and the re-
mains of the departed followed to their last resting-
place, where the coffin, which was very tastefully decor-
ated with wreathes of flowers, was carefully deposited.
—OGDEN HERALD.

RESOLUTIONS.

	The following Resolutions of Respect to our beloved
sister were unanimously adopted and sustained by the
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of Vir-
gen City:
	Whereas, God, in His infinite wisdom, has called from
our midst our sister, who was greatly beloved and res-
pected by us all for her kind and gentle disposition, her
pure, virtuous and exemplary life, faithful labors in our
Society, and the many good qualities she possessed,
	Therefore, Be it Resolved, That we, the members of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Virgen City, do deeply mourn the
loss of our beloved sister, Eveline Short, and that we
condole with her husband and friends in their great loss;
but while we mingle our tears with theirs, we would
point with joy to the hope of a glorious resurrection
which all true Latter-day Saints possess.
	And, Be it Resolved, That we present a copy of these
Resolutions to her husband.
					ELEANOR OWENS President,
					BETSY A. PARKER,
					AGNES RICHARDS, Counselors.


"SUCCESS."

	We call the attention of the ladies to the
fact, that Bro. Thomas Harris has been for
some time past following the business of polish-
ing piano, organs and furniture of every des-
cription.
	He attends to all work of polishing pianos
and organs for D. O. Calder, and is fully com-
petent to do whatever may be entrusted to him
by those needing his services.
	Any orders left at D.O. Calder's music store,
or P. O. Box 159, will receive prompt atten-
tion,


﻿SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a
good house to stop at by strangers visiting our
city, as also by our people from the settlements,
that we take pleasure in recommending the
"Spencer House" as thoroughly respectable,
clean and pleasant. The table has long borne
the reputation of not being excelled; the
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		-	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,		40c,	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow. Vol. 1,		-		$1,00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50	"

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON
Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
ris building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN CODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOOD.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

