
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 13.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1884.		No. 1.


BEAUTIES OF NATURE.

Down in the meadows, where the cowslips spring,
	And the sweet clover breath is in the air,
There where the thrush and blue bird sweetly sing,
	Dame Nature in her robes do wondrous fair,
	Holds her communion with the regal night,
	And blushes in the dawn of early light.

What picture hath the artist ever drawn
	That could compare in loveliness and grace
With nature in her rudest, wildest form,
	No matter in what climate, time, or place,
	So skillfully is ev'ry figure wrought,
	So delicate with feeling is it fraught.

In grove, and field, and vale, in forest glade,
	On snowy heights, where man may scarcely tread,
On flow'r, or shrub, and ev'ry grassy blade
	That lifts from earth its tiny, modest head,
	In coral reef, or sea beach shining sand,
	We see the seal of an Almightly hand.

I cannot tell how greatly I delight
	In all the beauties of the earth and heaven,
How ardently I reverence the light
	Which our good Father has so wisely given.
	The sun and the moon, and all the stars that shine
	With the effulgence of a power divine.

These speak to us in language most sublime,
	And most exalting to the human soul;
And all the changes of the hand of time,
	Which in thier order and their seasons roll,
	Bespeak the presence of a God of love,
	And grandly all the forces seem to move.

Harmonious in its sphere each swee[s along
	In measured time and method, year by year,
And nature's voices in triumphant song,
	Ring out their echoes sweet, distinct and clear,
	That linger 'moung the everlasting hills,
	Or dance to rhythm in the sparkling rills.

Music in which the heavens might rejoice,
	So gifted and so repturous the lay,
For nature with a universal voice
	Unites to celebrate each new born day;
	And thus from morn to eve, and eve to morn,
	All beauty and all grace the earth adorn.

So we admire, adore, and pass along,
	Yet linger most where sweetest flow'rs are strawn,
And while we mingle in the busy throng
	We often feel "'twere good to be alone"
	To meditate in Nature's haunts apart,
	In silence and humility of heart.

O, how we yearn to understand still more
	The mysteries that nature hath conceal'd;
The knowledge of her science-- hidden lore,
	Which unto none of us has been reveal'd;
	Nor will it be till we have proved how true,
	Our trust has been in what we came to do.
									EMILE.


<b -oibo="" obeloirrallephtb="" descendedyie="" dfi,itd="" stii="" taxisc="" in="" krand="" euvlmlty="" n.="" ici="" -l8vjttsowt-aubcights.fitmally,="" v="" -tfefbrei1="" -lev’ua="" yeihembbr="" -feifii7.="" who="" laid="" -="" dbwiilirfe1="" 'forll‘you="" and="" for'="" mfej’and="" rwho="" hath="" said,="" “i-'a'id'hhe5="" way?="" the1="" trdth!="" anctlhe="" ilfecomexoliow="" !'me,'for="" blessed="" holy="" are="" all="" they="" -who-have.part-in-the-firstresurrection,="" c??d="" 4eath,hath.noer.”="" how="" glorious="" wiu.it..="" be="" when="" we="" can="" say,="" r.-r.ur="" :="" ,r="" i.i?:="" vu="" “unguarded="" stands="" the="" tree="" of="" life.="" securely="" bound-the="" king'of="" strife;="" yn="" la'?="" immorlal.'world,'immortal="" sky,!="" -j-rivit="" o.teternalllfc—norn'dfo.td="" die.';="" l-'-lt="" offj="" aijm="" -ye;="" v.'t="" mma.s.="" buu="" 'iladies’'="" trasilfil="" thought,="" 'a1="" ‘="" manuscript1="" ’="" paper="" issued="" monthly="" by="" the;="" a'pdf="" mwafd'="" ogden.="" ‘i'v.-q="" f.uii="" jjhitfflb.’i="" ;r.l="">MISSION<b -oibo="" obeloirrallephtb="" descendedyie="" dfi,itd="" stii="" taxisc="" in="" krand="" euvlmlty="" n.="" ici="" -l8vjttsowt-aubcights.fitmally,="" v="" -tfefbrei1="" -lev’ua="" yeihembbr="" -feifii7.="" who="" laid="" -="" dbwiilirfe1="" 'forll‘you="" and="" for'="" mfej’and="" rwho="" hath="" said,="" “i-'a'id'hhe5="" way?="" the1="" trdth!="" anctlhe="" ilfecomexoliow="" !'me,'for="" blessed="" holy="" are="" all="" they="" -who-have.part-in-the-firstresurrection,="" c??d="" 4eath,hath.noer.”="" how="" glorious="" wiu.it..="" be="" when="" we="" can="" say,="" r.-r.ur="" :="" ,r="" i.i?:="" vu="" “unguarded="" stands="" the="" tree="" of="" life.="" securely="" bound-the="" king'of="" strife;="" yn="" la'?="" immorlal.'world,'immortal="" sky,!="" -j-rivit="" o.teternalllfc—norn'dfo.td="" die.';="" l-'-lt="" offj="" aijm="" -ye;="" v.'t="" mma.s.="" buu="" 'iladies’'="" trasilfil="" thought,="" 'a1="" ‘="" manuscript1="" ’="" paper="" issued="" monthly="" by="" the;="" a'pdf="" mwafd'="" ogden.="" ‘i'v.-q="" f.uii="" jjhitfflb.’i="" ;r.l=""> AND SUFFERING OF CHRIST.

	Our Savior! Behold Him crowned with
thorns, heaped with insults and reproaches,
subjected to cruel taunts and jeers, reviled and 
persecuted, and at last pursuing His toilsome
way towards the bloody mount of sacrifice. 
Three hours of agony! with the cruel nails
driven through the stainless hands, that had
never wrought evil deeds, piercing the quiver-
ing flesh of the holy feet that had never trod-
den forbidden paths, with lips of anguish that 
had never uttered words of guile, a heart un-
sullied with evil intents, throbbing beneath
the cruel pain, a mind unspotted with wicked 
designs, and a life pure in the sight of all the 
myriad hosts of earth and heaven, and yet cru-
cified, wounded and bleeding. He was put to 
death in open shame, a holy sacrifice for the
sin of the benighted and fallen world, whose
inhabitants could never hope to regain the
presence of their Father and God without a 
Savior's atoning blood. And yet in the infin-
ite and unbounded mercy and charity of His
soul, as He looked down from the height of the 
rude cross that held His bleeding limbs and 
body, His lips could utter, "Father forgive
them, for they know not what they do!" The 
dying words were spoken: "It is finished!" and 
the pure spirit fled. But as the wild fury of 
the wrath of heaven burst forth over the land,
all nature was convulsed in the throes of her
agony; the earch trembled beneath the power
of God, and the rocks were rent asunder and 
scattered in broken fragments upon the face of 
the land; while the lurid shafts of lightning 
that marked the broad expanse of heaven with
trails of fire, told with all the magnificent elo-
quence of their flaming tongues that nature's 
God was slain, and the crashing thunders that
shook the earth to its foundations, spoke with
all the majestic power of their terrific voices of
the guileless Nazarene while the sun hid his 
shining glory from the eyes of mankind be-
hind the sombre shades of heaven's pall, and
the moon and stars veiledtheir lustrous faces
beneath the sable curtains of the blackest night
of gloom that ever wrapped its shades over the 
face of earth since the morn of creation. A
darkness too great for the earthly light to pene-
trate, for the light and the life of the world
had been slain. The spirit had flown beyond,
while the casket lay in its rocky sepulchre;
therefore how great, indeed, was the darkness, 
while the habitations of the wicked were made 
to suffer the vengeance of a just God by the 
power of the tempest, whirlwind, earthquake,
and devouring fire, and there was mourning,
lamentation and desolation throughout the land.
	Three days of darkness and the shades flee
away. The sun once more reclaimed his pow-
er, and shone upon a world redeemed, while 
He, who had power to lay down His life and
take it up again, stood upon the earth with im-
mortal feet. triumphant over all, holding the 
shattered chains of death and the broken fet-
ters of hell within His grasp. Captivity hath 
been led captive; the prison doors have been 
unbarred, and the glad light of the resurrec-
tion hath shone within; the shackles of the
captives have been unloosed, and the way
pointed out which if followed obediently will
lead them forward to the heights beyond. The 
grave gives up the treasured dust it has held so
long, but can keep no longer, flesh, bone and 
sinew unite again, and quickened by the orig-
inal spirit that formerly dwelt in its body of 
clay, becomes a beautiful and glorious taber-
nacle of light, beyond the grasp of sin and 
pain. 
	Oh, grave! thy victory is wrested from thee; 
thy power forever broken. Thou may'st claim
the frail and weary clay, but thou can'st not 
keep the immortal element beyond thy time, 
for the freedom that hath swept thy fetters a-
sunder was bought and sealed with the purest 
blood that ever flowed on earth. 
	"For every thorn that pierced His brow
	Unnumbered gems are glittering now;
		Below all dephts descended He
	To rise in grand sublimity
	Above all heights eternally,
		And set the ransomed prisoners free."
[Column 3]
	Therefore let us remember Him who laid
down His life for you and for me, and who
hath said, "I am the way, the truth and the
life, come follow me, for blessed and holy are
all they who have part in the first resurrection,
for on them the second death hath no power."
How glorious will it be when we can all
say,
	"Unguarded stands the tree of life,
	Securely bound the king of strife;
	Immortal world, immortal sky,
	Eternal life- no more to die"
						M. A. S.
	From the Young Ladies' Treasury of
Thought, a manuscript paper issued monthly
by the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 4th Ward of
Ogden.


EXTRACT FROM LAIE LETTER.
		Laie, Oahu, Sandwich Islands,
					April 17th, 1884.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Secretary of the gener-
al organization of Relief Society:
Dear Sister, I improve the first opportunity
after our conference to send you a condensed
report of teh branches of Relief Society on the
Sandwich Islands. (Report will accompany
the letter.)
Our societies are scattered, and in some lo-
calities have but few members. Our sisters
here compare favorable with those at home for
punctuality in attending meetings, and if I
may judge others by those on this island, they
are faithful in donating and providing for the
sick and destitute; they are liberal with their
means, but not tender nurses.
The Islanders, as a people, adhere strongly
to old traditions and sorceries, it is no uncom-
mon thing to find them trying to pray each 
other to death. Their doctors use old spells
and charms as restoratives for the sick. Among 
the natives we find but comparatively few
deep thinkers who are capable of exercising an
intelligent and abiding faith in the principles
of the Gospel. Though not thorough students
there is among them a perceptible improve-
ment, could some of our Elders who labored
so faithfully here years ago have attended our
recent conference it would have made their
hearts glad to look upon so well dressed and
respectable looking an assembly as I saw seated
in our pleasant new meeting house. The sing-
ing gallery was occupied by the Laie and Hon-
olulu choirs. The singing was creditable.	*
*		*		* There are but few
books printed in the native language, the Bible
is the principal one; this the natives know al-
most by heart, they quote Scripture as fast as
they can talk.
I have introduced sewing into the society.
Sister Young and I meet with them and in-
struct them in economizing material, etc., we
find it embarrassing not to be able to speak the
language well. The sisters are pleased when
they are doing as they think the sisters in Zion
do. We are trying to help them all we can.
There are at present two Chiefess' visiting
Laie; they are cousins, tall, fine looking wom-
en, each of them weighing over 200 pounds.
One, Kapukini by name, has been a member of
the Church a number of years, is president of 
the Relief Society on Maui. She is a woman 
of as much intelligence as any  [---] the na-
tives, and talks of going to Utah. The other


is called Anne Tikelike, she is a daughter of
Kauhunahepie, who was a faithful member of
the Church and an influential man when Bro.
Cannon was here. She says her father while
he lived taught her that Mormonism was true.
She finally made up her mind to join the
Church and came to Laie and requested bap-
tism. She is a very fine specimen of a 
Chiefess.
	Praying for the success of those who labor
for the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,
				SARAH L. PARTRIDGE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)
   Previous to this an express had been sent by 
the President to Mt. Pisgah to raise one hun-
dred men for the expedition over the moun-
tains, and the day before their arrival Brother
Woodruff had called for mounted volunteers,
when "sixty at once stepped out into line."
But the day following the people there were
thrown into consternation by the sudden cry,
"The United States troops are upon us!"  But
it soon proved to be Captain James Allen with
three dragoons--who after making known his
business in the High Council at that place,
was furnished with a letter of introduction to
the President and authorities at Council Bluffs
and Brother Woodruff dispatched a messenger
to prepare them for the business of this govern-
ment agent.
   On the 7th of July they began crossing the
Missouri River.  That day Horace and the
other boys returned from their trading trip in
the Platt country, having met with no other
accident than the breaking of a yoke and a
wagon tongue, the latter happened to Hans
Hanson while along on the prairie.  There
was but one boat and that capable of holding
only three wagons at a time.  Our cows were
driven across on the 8th, and we came down to
the landing in the afternoon, but a number of
teams were ahead of us, and we had to wait
till one a.m. before we could commence cross-
ing over.  Horace wrote:
   "Thursday, 9th.  We were blessed with a
fine moonlight night, which aided us greatly in
crossing. This morning drove our oxen into the
river to swim them across, but they would not
go, an account of the reflection of the sun's
rays upon the water, which dazzled their eyes,
consequently had to take them over in the boat
--at about five o'clock had everything over but
two oxen which were missing.  Had a very
hard rain while we were going out to the camp
--four miles from the  river, where we all ar-
rived to-night pretty well fatigued.  We just
learned that Bishop Miller,  who has gone
ahead, has had his horses stolen."
   "Friday, 10th. Rainy this morning.  Fath-
er came up to-day, he crossed soon after we
did, but stayed in the woods last night, and
was detained some time, having lost some of
his cattle, but he found them again.	*	*
Joseph Herring, an Indian of the Mohawk
tribe, has just come from the south-west; he
tells us that there is a civil war among the
Cherokees on account of one party of them
selling land to the United States.  He had to
escape to save his life, and had travelled 200
miles on his pony in three days.  This after-
noon we moved about [-] of a mile beyond and
located ourselves on a small rise of ground--
being much more commodious and cleanly
than the place where Brigham is.		*	*
Very good springs of water in the vicinity.
Quite a large creek about 3/4 of a mile distant.
The Indians have cornfields immediately
around us, and on that account we have to keep
close watch on our horses and cattle lest they
should break into them."
   I remember the scenes he describes and the
camping fires; also of going to the creek men-
tioned to do our washing, as well as the corn-
fields that we passed, they being the first we
had seen;and of our purchasing some of the
ears to roast.  It looked good to us to once
more see vegetation and cultivated land, or
anything resembling civilization after travel-
ling as we had and camped for so long a time
upon wild prairie land.  It was to us like an
oasis to the weary traveler in the midst of a
wilderness, and reminded us of our western
homes, where the tall cornfields waved o'er our
heads, and where we had learned the art of
making hoe cake, which was our "daily bread"
with hominy and the luxurious gravy from
transparent pork.
   Here we first met our staunch young friend,
Col. Kane, who came to our camp on the 12th,
being Sunday, and made a speech that evening
concerning the recruiting orders given to Capt.
Allen to raise a regiment of volunteers from
among the "Mormons.' on such conditions that
it would be an advantage to us.  Brothers O.
Pratt and G. A. Smith also made appropriate
speeches, ratifying what Col. Kane had said.
"This young man," wrote Horace, "appears to
be an instrument in the hands of the Lord to
bring about our salvation at the present time.
The United States' fleet have taken possession
of the coast of California.  By doing this we
establish a certain claim on the land, and once
there ours will be the majority of people."
   We learned that father and B. Young were
at the camp on the Bluffs, and that they were
all full of life and bustle--that over 300 had
enlisted,  Those who could went to see them,
some in carriages and some on horseback. My
mother went with others of our family and I
was to have gone horseback, but the boys all
wanting to go, and not having horses enough,
I stayed back--Horace and others returned
that evening, but father and mother remained.
We learned that one hundred men were yet
wanting to complete the recuiting list.
   The following is from the life of Brigham
Young:
   "Brigham Young, while believing the battal-
ion call to be a test of loyalty, hastened with
Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards to
Mt. Pisgah, 130 miles, to execcute the "de
mand," as they deemed fit, for a battalion of
their picked men to serve their country.  They
immediately sent messengers, with official des-
patches from their high councils, to Nauvoo,
Garden Grove, and the regions around, calling
to head-quarters their old men and able-bodied
boys to supply the place of their picked men
going for the service of their country."
   "Returning to Council Bluffs, they gathered
the "Camp of Israel" to enroll the companies
of volunteers.  While Major Hunt' of the vol-
unteers, was calling out the first company,
Brigham Young conversed with Col. Kane in
Bro. Woodruff's carriage about the affairs of
the nation, and told him the time would come
when the Mormons would have to  save  the
Government of the U.S., or it would crumble
to atoms."
	"Forty minutes after twelve of the same day,
July 15th, the Elders and the people assembled
in the Bowery.  President Young then deliv-
ered to the congregation a simple but earnest
speech, in which he told the brethren, with a
touch of subdued pathos, "not  time to reason
now."  "We want," he said, "to conform to
the requisition made upon us," and we will do
nothing else until we have accomplished this
thing.   If we want the privilege of going
where we can worship God according to the
dictates of our own consciences, we must raise
the battalion.  I say it is right; and who cares
for sacrificing our comfort for a few years?	*
*	*	*	*	I want to say to every
man, the Constitution of the United States, as
formed by our fathers, was dictated, was re-
vealed, was put into their  hearts by the Al-
mighty, who sits enthroned in the midst of the
heavens; although unknown to them, it was
dictated by  the revelations of Jesus Christ; it
is as good as ever I could ask for.  I say unto
you, magnify the law.  There is no law in the 
United States, or in the Constitution, but I am
ready to make honorable."
   "Thursday, 16th. (Horace wrote) A meeting
was called at our camp--the people were told
to choose whether they would go over the
mountains with Bishop Miller to Grand Island
or to go back ou the other side of the river--
the most of them were for going on with Mil-
ler.  There was also a call made for more vol-
unteers for the war.  Brother Kimball, father
and Brigham started to go over the river to
the Bluffs--there to hold another council--
then they intend with some of the  Twelve to
go up the river some distance to seek a location
for us this winter.  Wm. and wife, Helen,
Sarah Lawrence, Harriet Sanders and myself
accompanied them to the Bluffs.		*	*
After going about a mile and a half from the
ferry on the other side, the brethren were met
by a number of the Twelve and others going
down to the village; being near Bro. George
A.'s camp they stopped there and held coun-
cil.  I rode on with the girls and we reached
the camp."
	Here we found a number of our old acquan-
tances--among them were Bros. Robert Pierce
and Cooledge and our families.  This camp was
much larger than ours and consisted principal-
ly of those who left Nauvoo long after our de-
parture.  Horace, myself, and Sarah Lawrence
stopped with Bro. Cooledge's folks that night.
Horace wrote:  "Friday, 17th. A meeting was
called this morning  and considerable business
done--there was quite a subscription taken in
behalf of Bro. Yokum, who lost a limb in the
Missouri persecution. and had suffered a great
deal--some gave him money, some flour, etc.
*	*	*		Wm., myself and the
girls took a short ride into the country this
forenoon, and about three p.m. started for
home, which we reached about sunset."  The
next day President B. Young and father went
some fifteen or twenty mile, up the river in
search of a suitable place to winter, but not.
finding any they came back, previously send-
ing on six men in search of some good place.
   Sunday, 19th.  They held a meeting in or-
der to find out who were going over the moun-
tains and who were not going to Grand Island.
   "They made out some fifty wagons which,"
Horace says, "were to go ahead--join Miller
and proceed with him over the mountains.
Brigham spoke severely of brethren, who being
set to watch cattle, fell asleep at their posts
and suffered them to roam into the Indian's
cornfields,	*	*	and those found
guilty of like acts again should be expelled
from the camp of Israel, for they were a per-
fect disgrace to us."
    "Monday, 20th.		*	Brother James
Smithers and Jacob Hutchinson went over the
river to join the rest of the band in a party
which they held over there to-day."


A man is known by his company, and his
company by his manners.—Swift.
  
 	Without economy none can be rich, and with
it few can be poor.—Dr. Johnson.

 	In all things throughout the world, the men
who look for the crooked will see the crooked,
and the men who look for the straight will see
the straight.—Ruskin.

 	Mind the paint. Don't touch pitch. Go the
other side the road rather than shake hands
with one who may draw you along with him in
the path of evil.—G. Everard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿	[-]


THE CAPTIVE HEART.

	ORIGINAL.

My heart was once a caged bird,
	That slipped its prison bars one day,
And through the bright empyrean blue,
	From home and friends soared far away.

While skimming through the Jinden trees
	It stopped to chant a simple lay;
When looking down it saw, forsooth,
	One of God's angels pass that way.

A form so fair, of heavenly mold,
	Moving along with dainty grace,
That e'en the earth-flowers crowd her path;
	They rare had seen so sweet a face.

The bird its heavenward course forgot,
	And quickly back to earth it flew,
Into that bosom nestling crept,
	Captive again, for love of you.

Now, gentle friend, my heart restore,
	And let it wander fancy free;
Or if you will not, fair exchange,
	And let thy heart my captive be.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 7th, 1884.


LONELY THOUGHTS

'Tis vain to kneel beside the grave
Of buried hopes and pleasures,
And sigh for the companionship
Of those decaying treasures.

'Tis vain to brood o'er hours misspent
In idleness and sorrow,
And seek to expiate their loss
By borrowing from the morrow.

'Tis vain to try to heal the wounds
For unkind actions given.
Or tie the cord that sweetly binds
Our hearts to each when riven.

'Tis vain to hope to lead a life
Of usefulness and duty,
If in the soul the grace of God
Shine not in all its beauty.

'Tis vain to hope reward to reap
For service never given;
When God shall sift the good from bad,
And welcome them to heaven.

					SALINA ATKINS.
St. George.


<iw i<—-----i="" -dvtqmco="" of="" m<di="" aototerieseitdiaiitirrop:="" .kimualijbui="" .4="" -1u3="" istt="" q="" e="" <j-------="" ,="" 1="" 01="" trw="">A VENERABLE WOMAN

	PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL

			[Continued.]

   After Sister Presendia had moved into her
present home in the 16th Ward, President He-
ber C. Kimball gave her on one occasion a pe-
culiar blessing.  Bro. Kimball was a man who
when he was not too much annoyed with
worldly cares was full of blessings for the
Saints, and especially tender of his own family,
and often blest and prophesied upon those with
whom he was closely associated.  This particu-
lar blessing he told Sister presendia to write
and it should every word come to pass- It was
given April 7th, 1862.
   I want you Presendia, to go on the place I
have bought of Daniel Morse and take care of
it as my property, and you shall be blest in all
your labors, and everything shall prosper in 
your hands; be liberal and kind to the poor and
to the sick and; of your means and strength;
uphold me in your prayers and faith.  The 
angels that have guarded me through life are
those that guarded the ancient apostles in the
days of Jesus, they will be your guardian an-
gels, and the hand that is raised agianst you


shall be stayed, and it shall not prosper.  I
want you when you get moved to-day to write
this blessing, and it will be fulfilled; now go in
peace and prosper.  The blessing of
				PREST. H. C. KIMBALL
  After I got my household into the house I
asked my brother, Dimick B. Huntington, to
come over and dedicate my new home to the
Lord; he said when I had it cleaned and pre-
pared he would, but without waiting for him I
dedicated it myself to the best of my ability,
and with all the faith I could command com-
menced to clear up around and prepare for
making a garden, and planting trees and
shrubs of various kinds.  These grew and were
luxuriant and fruitful, a more prolific garden
there is not in the city.  I also bought a loom
and everything necessary to carry on weaving
and to make carpet and kinds of home manu-
factured cloth.  I have done all my own do-
mestic work and never have neglected waiting
on and attending to the sick for I felt it was
my mission in this life.
	Sister Presendia has indeed been an angel of
mercy at the bedside of many of the Latter-
day Saints when sick, and often, very often in-
deed, soothed their sufferings when dying.  She
has acted as a midwife and in faith and hu-
mility has done a noble work in this capacity.
	Her path has not been strewn with flowers,
but sharp and cruel thorns have pierced her
as it were on every hand, but now in her later
years, when her head is silvered o'er, and the
experience of her former life rises up before
her, she bows meekly in humble acknowledge-
ment and submission, and says it was good for
her to pass under the rod of affliction, for she
has learned to appreciate the feelings of others,
and knows how to sympathize with the trials
and sorrows of those who must pass through
similar ordeals if they expect to obtain a ce-
lestial glory and exaltation.


THE SABBATH DAY.
	We surely ought to appreciate the privileges
we enjoy; we are free to speak and act, but I
sometimes think we are apt to do wrong on ac-
count of not understanding our duty as we
should.
	There are so many nationalities among us,
each having their own peculiar notions, that
we are apt to partake of their ways, unless we
study and reflect for ourselves.  The Sabbath
day, for instance; some think it is designed for
a day of pleasure, but it is several years since
I went pleasure seeking on a Sabbath, without
it was to go to meeting or Stake Conference, or
something of that nature.  For the Savior
said when He was asked if it was lawful to heal
on the Sabbath day, "That if any man had a
sheep and it fell into a pit on the Sabbath day,
will he not lay hold on it and lift it out?  How
much more is a man better than a sheep?
Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sab-
bath days" (Matt. xii, 12). Some may ask,
did not you used to go pleasure seeking on the
Sabbath when you were younger?  Yes, many
times, but I received a very severe and sorrow-
ful chastisement over five years ago, and I
have not forgotten it, although I sometimes
think I scarcely know how to do, for in an-
cient times, according to the Bible, they were
very strict.  If we read the 13th chapter of
Exodus 2nd and 3rd verses it says: "Six days
thou shalt labor, but on the seventh day there
shall be to you a holy day, a sabbath of rest to
the Lord; whosoever doeth work therein shall
be put to death.  Ye shall kindle no fire in
your habitations upon the Sabbath day."  And
we read in Numbers 15th chap., 32nd verse:
"And while the children of Israel were in the
wilderness they found a man that gathered
sticks upon the Sabbath day, and they that
found him gathering sticks brought him unto
Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congrega-
tion; and they put him in ward, because it was
not declared what should be done to him.  And
the Lord said unto Moses, the man shall surely
be put to death, all the congregation shall
stone him with stones without the camp. And
all the congregation brought him without the
camp and stoned him with stones, and he died,
as the Lord commanded Moses." More is said
in many other places, 31st chap of Exodus, in
the 13th verse, it says that it was a sign that ye
may know that I am the Lord that doth sanc-
tify you.  Leviticus 26th chap. and 15th verse
says: "And if ye will despise my statutes, or if
your soul abhor my judgment, so that ye will
not do all my commandments, but that ye
break my covenants: I also will do this unto
you: I will even appoint over you terror, con-
sumption, and the burning ague, that shall
consume your eyes and cause sorrow of heart:
and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your
enemies shall eat it.  And I will set my face
against you, and ye shall be slain before your
enemies."  Much more is said, and in other
places the Lord says if they do not repent He
will bring seven times more upon them until
through hunger they shall eat their own sons
and daughters, beasts carry off their children,
and cattle and pestilence, the sword, and fam-
ine would make their cities waste and deso-
late.  After speaking all this the 34th verse
says: "Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths
as long as it lieth desolate, and ye be in your
enemies' hand; even then shall the land rest,
and enjoy her Sabbaths.
	35th. "As long as it lieth desolate it shall
rest: because it did not rest on your Sabbaths
when ye dwelt upon it."
	Of course this was given to the children of
Israel, but if we read Isaiah lviii, 13, 14, we
find great promises are made to those who ob-
serve it: "And if thou turn away thy foot from
the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my
holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, the
holy of the Lord honorable, thou shalt honor
Him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding
thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own
words, then shalt thou delight thyself in the
Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the
high places of the earth, and feed thee with the
heritage of Jacob, thy father, for the mouth of
the Lord hath spoken it."  We also read in the
Doctrine and Covenants, 224th page, what has
been revealed in ths dispensation in regard to
the Sabbath day. "And that thou mayest keep
thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacra-
ments upon my holy day.  For verily this is a
day appointed unto you to rest from your lab-
ors and pay thy devotions unto the Most
High."  In reading the rest of the chapter we
find something similar to the promise in Isaiah
"Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this the
fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the
field and the fowls of the air, and that which
climbeth upon the trees, and walketh upon the
earth."  Much more that is pleasing to the eye
and gladdening to the heart is promised. This
alone should induce our young people to keep
sacred the Sabbath day, for they all like this
world's riches; but it is better to do as our Sa-
vior said. "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God,
and His righteousness, and then all these
things shall be added unto you."
					MARY J. MORRISON.
Spanish Fork, May 24th, 1884.


The philosophers as Varro tells us, counted
up three hundred and twenty answers to the
question, "What is the  supreme good?” How
needful,  then, is a divine revelation, to make
plain what is the true end of our being! Ty
ron Edwards.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor
Published semi-monthly, in Salth Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six month
$1.00; Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
 EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z.C.M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,  JUNE 1, 1884


TEMPLE DEDICATION

	The Dedication of the Logan Temple, which
took place May 17th, 1881, was one of the most
remarkable events that has transpired in the
history of the Church.  It is the grandest edi-
fice of its kind that has been erected in this dis-
pensation, and it is but natural to expect that
light, knowledge and intelligence from heaven
will be received in that house, dedicated by the
servants of God unto the Most High, with sol-
emn and impressive services.  Those who were
present on that sublime occasion and witnessed
the imposing ceremonies cannot but feel that it
was one of the grandest epochs of their lives.
Doubtless thousands of the Latter-day Saints
realized most emphatically that the Lord ac-
cepted the offering made to Him in the power of
the Holy Spirit manifested through His servants
on that memorable day.
	Services commenced at half past ten a.m,
President John Taylor presiding.  On his right
hand sat his First counselor, George Q. Cannon,
and on his left his Second Counselor, Joseph F.
Smith; President Wilford Woodruff and Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow, of the Quorum of the Twelve,
also occupied seats on either side of the first
Presidency.  The different quorums of the
priesthood were all represented by the presiding
officers, according to their regular order.
	The Temple and everything pertaining to its
dedication has been graphically written up and
published in the several daily papers in this
city, and in Logan, Ogden and Provo papers, and
no doubt all our readers have already had the
opportunity of perusing all the details in print,
yet we cannot pass over this eventful circum-
stance without referring to the subject, as it im-
pressed the writer in a most forcible manner.
Never since the time when we witnessed the
remarkable, one might say marvelous occurance,
which transpired in Nauvoo at the time when
the mantle of the Prophet Joseph appeared so
plainly to fall upon Brigham Young, have we
seen any manifestation of divine acceptance so
distinctly clear as during the dedication services
in the Logan Temple.  A sensation as though
myriads of angels were in attendance and tak-
ing cognizance of that which transpired.
	The hymns sung at the dedication were writ-
ten expressly for that purpose, and the music
was home production.  The first hymn was
by Elder H. W. Naisbeet, commencing,
	"Come swell the grandly solemn strain
	Within these sacred walls to-day."
The dedicatory prayer was offered by President
Taylor, and was so complete and perfect that it
seemed to comprise everything on earth and in
heaven pertaining to the offering of the Temple
made to "Our Father" on that grandly suspicious
day for Israel.  After the prayer the choir sang
a hymn composed by Elder James A. Leish-
man.
	"In ages past, 'midst error dark,
	Our fathers lived and died."
	Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph F.
Smith and Apostles Wilford Woodruff and Lo-
renzo Snow addressed the congregation.  It was
a time of devout worship and precious enjoy-
ment of sacred things.
	President John Taylor made a few appropri-
ate closing remarks, and the assembly joined
him in repeated Hossannah's to God and the
Lamb, which thrillingly echoed through the
magnificent hall.
	The closing hymn, composed by Elder H. W.
Naiabitt, was rendered by the Logan choir in a
most rapturous style, as though they realized the
full force of the solemn yet joyous gathering.
The words are beautifully appropriate to the
theme.  We give the first verse:
	"Adown the ages that hath run,
	Like thread of gold in vesture rare,
	A memory fondest 'neath the sun,
	On history's page the one most fair!
	Man's greatest works beneath the skies,
	'Mid Salem's towers its glories rise."
	Sunday morning the dedicatory services were
repeated with a change of speakers, and again
on Monday, in order to admit as many as possi-
ble to partake of the blessings of worshiping
God in this hallowed place.
	On the second day during the exercises that
glorious hymn, composed by W. W. Phelps,
"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," was
sung, the congregation standing upon their feet
and joining in the singing.  The effect must
have been most soul-inspiring, for the hymn is
one no Latter day Saint can ever hear without
feeling stirred to the depths of his soul.  Even
apostates refer to this hymn as a recollection
which they can never quite blot out of mem-
ory.
	In going over the Logan Temple and viewing
it in all its grandeur from basement to towers,
and gazing from the highest points upon the
surrounding country with its peaceful vales be-
low, and stupendous mountain heights, our
thoughts and emotions were inadvertently
drawn out in adoration and praise, and the
grand, prophetic poem of W. W. Phelps kept
ringing and echoing through the mind.
	"The towers of Zion soon shall rise
	Above the clouds and reach the skies,
	Attract the gaze and wondering eyes
	Of all that worship gloriously."

	"Exalt the name of Zion's God,
	Praise ye His name in songs aloud;
	Proclaim His majesty abroad
	Ye banner-bearing messengers."
	The hymns of praise, the solemn prayer offer-
ing the house unto the Most High, the words of
the servants of God who officiated on that mem-
orable occasion, and the thrilling Hossannahs of
the multitude, must be vividly impressed upon
every one who has the spiritual and emotional
nature largely developed.


A FEW THOUGHTS.

The subject of marriage is one that as ever
engrossed considerable attention, an will
while man has an existence. Mormon marriage
being peculiar in many respects is at the pres-
ent time very extensively discussed, and the
sentiments of the women of the Church are
more or less inquired after;and while the elo-
quent orators of the day eleaf Mormonism as
a theme for public lectures and discources, and
the great statesmen of the Republic are mak-
ing laws to regulate marriage among the "Mor-
mons," it does seem apropros for women, as well


as men, who are the interested parties, to give
 their own opinions, in their own way, that the
world may understand the views they entertain
upon these matters.
	Love and marriage are two very important
features in life here upon the earth. A love-
less life is a sort of blank. A woman who has
never really known the tenderness of intensely
loving has scarcely arrived at the highest degree
of earthly happiness. When one has realized
the power of that true and constant love which
attracts one to the opposite sex, then the desire
of becoming united through the marriage cer-
mony naturally follows. No life is wholly com-
plete without marriage. No woman's life has
reached its fullest and highest realization until
she has attained to the climax of her existence
through a true marriage.
	The first commandment given was to multi-
ply and replenish the earth; it was given to men
and to woman, and is equally incumbent upon
each. Has woman the same opportunities to
carry into effect this command as man? By no
menas. The traditions and customs of modern
society are all against women, and in favor of
men, but without discussing these, as there are
so many points to be considered, we will only
say that God has revealed in this dispensation,
through His servant Jospeh Smith, a better way,
a higher order of marriage, whereby woman
may be lifted upon a higher plane, and have
greater opportunity for advancement than she 
could possibly have had, save in exceptional
instances, in the world. Already these things
are becoming apparent, and the sacrifices that
women necessarily make are only such as disci-
pline the character and elevate the soul.
	Through this principle of plural marriage
woman will eventually be redemed from the
curse placed upon her, and this is worth all the
sacrifices it is possible to make.
	There are many arguments in favor of a plu-
rality of wives, but to give them in detail would
take too much space; suffice it to say, those who
have undertaken to establish this principle have
not done so without an understanding of the
great blessing it would eventually be to all who
would be born in the new and everlasting cov-
enant, and the practice is not optional with the
Latter-day Saints, but a command from God,
which they consider as binding upon them, and
they have received it with as sacred a feeling as
they went down into the waters of baptism. it 
is the sure path, that will lead to exaltation and
eternal lives; and to all who will live for it God
will give that testimony which will enable
them to comprehend how and why it is a saving
principle, and calculated to preserve and prolong
and increase life, and raise up a purer genera-
tion of people, with more of the spiritual and
higher nature, and even this one consideration,
were there no other, would be worth the great-
est efforts and best endeavors that mankind
could make.


NELLIE WHITE.
  Nellie White, the young lady recently sent to
the Penitentiary for refusing to answer ques-
tions asked her by the Grand Jury, is a very
pretty and amiable, as well as brave and deter-
mined, young woman, nineteen years of age; a
fine specimen of a Mormon girl, and zealously
devoted to the faith of the Church.  She has
been, for the past two years, engaged in teaching
instrumental music, but had just opened a school
in Wanship the day before she was supoened to
appear bafore the Grand Jury, It has been
stated that Miss White is not to be allowed the
privileges which were given to Belle Haris, of
receiving things from her friends to make her
prison life more endurable.  Whether this is ac-


cording to law we are not prepared to say, posi-
tively, but if it were right and proper in the
case of Belle Harris, and no one seemed to op-
pose it then on any legal ground it must be
right now; of course this restriction is only to
make her testify in the case, and this is what she
is not likely to do under any circumstances,
however trying.
	Miss White is a delicate, refined, sensative
girl, a great favorite with her friends, and the
way in which she is being treated will bring
down upon those concerned in the matter, the
indignation of the parties interested in her wel-
fare. As for maintaining the dignity of the law
it is rather straining a point, when modest,
well-behaved young girls are sent to prison
simply because they refuse to speak, while dis-
reputable women may have the most perfect
liberty and freedom.
	Miss White is undoubtedly at the present
time the victim of religious persecution, but her
own clear conscience and purity of heart are the
best safeguards and companions she can possibly
have. There is still law in the land, and men
who love justice are well acquainted with the
rights and privelages pertaining thereto. We
expect to see the law maintained in its supreme
dignity in this instance, and Nellie White set at
liberty. It may take a little time to accomplish
this, but we are not living in the days of the in-
quisition or the Salem witchcraft.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES

  THE EXPONENT of this issue ushers in the
new volume, and so many of the subscribers are
behind in their payments, we wish to remind
them, that they may come forward and pay up,
as everybody knows newspapers are not pub-
lished without money.  Now is a good time to
settle up all delinquencies, and also to subscribe
for the coming year.
  ON the 12th of May, as per appointment, the
officers of the Deseret Hospital Association met
in the Social Hall in this city, but as there were
not sufficient members to compose a meeting of
the association, the meeting was adjourned sine
die, or subject to the call of the President, H.
B. Clawson. Prest. Wilford Woodruff, of the
quorum of the Twelve Apostles, Prest. A. M.
Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor of the Presiden-
cy of this Stake of Zion, were present.  It is a
matter of regret that so little interest is taken
by the sisters generally in attending these an-
nual meetings.  We wish to remind the sisters
who became members of the Deseret Hospital
Association the first year that we have now
commenced upon the third year.  Many of the
members are deliquent in their payment of the
second year, and perhaps need reminding.  It is
an annual fee of one dollar per year.

  SISTER HANNAH T. KING of this city, well
and favorably known as a writer both in this
country and in England, has recently published
a new work.  It is an Epic Poem, being a syn-
opsis of the rise of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints from the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, his martyrdom--the
journey across the plains, and the arrival of the
Saints with Brigham Young at their head, on
the spot pronounced to be the site of the future
Salt Lake City.  The book was published at the
JUVENILE INSTRUCTOR Office, and is now for
sale at that office, also at the EXPONENT office;
at J. H. Parry's, Main Street, and at Mrs.
King's residence, Dernford House, 17th Ward.
  It is a poem that will speak forcibly to the
heart of every Latter-day Saint.  The book is
dedicated, by permission, to President John
Taylor.  The preface is specially characteristic


of the writer, who writes, as she often asserts,
"As the bird sings its song,"
  In the preface, which is very brief, she says,
"My heart and brain were wedded in the con-
ception of the enclosed poem, consequently it is
the pet of the union."


LETTER XI.

		DOWN THE RHINE.

 In my last I told you I would give you some-
thing of a description of my voyage down the
Rhine, the river of which we have read and
heard so much, and which seems to have such
a fascination for travelers.
  From Frankfort on the Main we went to May-
ence, stopping there only a short time, as we
were anxious to start down the Rhine. We
left Mayence early in the morning; the flags
were flying from every house, the soldiers were
out in full dress, the bands playing national
tunes, and everything looked gay and merry.
The boats on the river were all decked with
flags of different colors, and all the parading was
in honor of the Kaiser's birthday. It was a 
grand holiday throughout the empire.
  At last we were fairly embarked upon the
Rhine, that river of which tourists have talked
and written, and poets so long have sung, and
the beauty of which I would so delight to tell
you all, but what could my poor pen write after
Byron, Schiller, Lytton, and so many great au-
thors have so beautifully and graphically des-
cribed the castled banks and the blue waters of
this winding river.
  Almost from the first, after leaving the city
of Mayence behind, the banks began to grow
more beautiful; gentle sloping hills covered with
vineyards, where the women and children were
working and tying up the vines; all this seemed
so picturesque and romantic, I could not but ap-
preciate the poetry written of this land of the
grape and vine.
 At each villiage we were greeted by the firing
of cannons; occasionally we saw crowds of peo
ple wending their way up the hilside, going to
the forests behind, with baskets of picnic, and
all dressed in their holiday costumes. I cannot
begin to tell the pleasure I felt as one after an-
other of the grand old castles, the pretty villages
and the rocky cliffs presented themselves to our
view, then faded from sight, only to give place
to another scene still grander and lovelier than
before. Towards mid-day we reached the pret-
ty little village of Bingen, so celebrated in song,
and I thought of the  beautiful lines of Mrs.
Caroline Norton, you, my dear mother, taught
me when I was a child. I saw the picture here
of the 'Soldier of the Legion' and his fair love
standing hand in hand on the hillside gazing at
the beauty of the scene around, and their souls
filled with love; I almost thought I saw them
there, and that I heard the words,

"Tell her I dreamed I stood with her, and saw the yellow
	sunlight shine
On the vine-clad hills of Bingen, dear Bingen on the
	Rhine;
I saw the blue Rhine sweep along, I heard, or seemed to
	hear,
The German songs we used to sing, in accents low and
	clear;
And down the flowing river, and up the slanting hill
The echoing chorus sounded, in the evening calm and
	still,
And her little hand lay lightly, confidingly in mine,
But we'll meet no more at Bingen, loved Bingen on the
	Rhine."
How much sweeter these words are to me now,
before I only heard them, now I feel them
   Just beyond this village, on a little island, [---] a
grim old tower, called the Mouse Tower, about
which there is a story that a cruel Arch-
bishop caused a number of people, whom he
compared to mice devouring corn, in a time of
famine, to be burned alive in a barn;immediate-
ly afterwards he was annoyed by mice, and he
sought refuge on this island;his little persecu-
tors followed him there, however, and devoured 
him. We sailed down the river, greatly charmed
all the way. First on one side would rise an im-
posing ruin, then on the other a magnificent
castle, each with a long, interesting story, or a
sad legend.  On the left we saw a high, and
seemingly inaccessible, castle, where,  we are
told, robbers had made a home and hidden their
treasures, and just as the mind begins to fancy
the underground passages and the mysterious
haunts of this place we turn to the right and
see the two castles of Liebenstein and Sterrenfels
or "The Brothers," standing calmly before us,
and the pretty legend of these we cannot pass
by, though other interesting sights may be
missed. Here in Liebenstein lived an aged man
with two sons and an adopted daughter, both
sons loved their foster-sister and wanted to wed
her, but she favored the younger brother. The
other, disappointed in his love, joined the Crusa-
ders, and in foreign lands won honor and renown.
The father then built the castle of Sterrenfels
for the younger son and his bride, but the mar-
riage was postponed; the love of the younger
brother cooled, and hearing of his brother's suc-
cess and glory, he longed, also, to leave home
and join the Crusaders.
 Not long after his departure the father died,
and Hildegarde, for such was the foster daugh-
ter's name, lived alone in Liebenstein, mourn-
ing over her loneliness, and longing for the re-
turn of her lover, whose faith she never doubt-
ed. But one day he returned to the Sterrenfels,
bringing with him a fair Grecian bride. Hilde-
garde lived in the other castle in seclusion,
when one night a stranger knight demanded the
hospitality of the castle; this one proved to be
the other brother, who, hearing of his brother's
faithlessness, came home resolved to avenge his
sister's wrongs.
 The following morning he challenged his
brother to a deadly combat, but before their
swords were crossed Hildegarde interfered and
begged the brothers to be friends. She then re-
tired to a convent, which is situated just below
the castles. The brothers separated, each to his
own castle, and lived wholly apart from each
other, until the younger, deserted by his Greek
wife, threw himself at his brother's mercy, beg-
ging forgiveness, insisting that his friendship
alone could make him happy. So the brothers
lived the remainder of their lives in Liebenstein.
The castles afterwards were purchased by the
government, but now they are only ruins, with
this little legend attached to make them still
more interesting.
  We passed, of course, the Lorelle. but heard
no echo, only saw the great high cliffs and rug-
ged rocks. I cannot mention half we saw, nor
begin to tell by letter how charmed I was with
it all, but I thought, O, so many times, how
mother would enjoy this, and how I wish she
could see it all. Just before dark we neared the
part of the river, where on the high banks are
the Draehenfels, and so long as we could see, for
darkness came upon us, and the lights of Co-
logne shone out in the distance,these peaks were
visible, and the last thoughts on  the Rhine
were of  Byron's beautiful lines,
	"The castled crag of Draehenfels
	    Frowns o'er the wide and winding Rhine;
	Whose breast of water broadly swells
	    Between the tanks which bear the vine;
	And hills all rich with blossomed trees,
	    And fields which promise corn and wine,
	And scattered cities crowning these,
	    Whose far white walls along them shine."

It was night and we had reached ous destina-


tion, the Ci y of Cologne, where we spent a
couple of days most pleasantly, but I fear I shall
tire you with a long letter; later I will tell you
more of our journey, which has been to delight-
ful and charming to me that I know you will
also be interested in it.
Your affecionate daughter,
ANNIE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A DREAM.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:

	The enclosed copy of a dream is received in
response to a request of mine, after hearing it
related.
	Although not much of a dreamer, and being
rather subject to attribute less importance to
dreams than many others, I was much interest-
ed in the one in question, and solicited a copy
for publication in the EXPONENT. Of course
you will act your pleasure in regard to it.
	Lovingly,
	E. R. S. S.

MRS. ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH:
	Dear sister, in accordance with my promise
made you yesterday, in Logan, I write you a
brief statement of a dream I had a few years
ago, which refers to a principle of great import-
ance to the Latter-day Saints.
	I dreamed I had passed away from this pro-
bation and was in the spirit world, and had been
assigned my duties, As I passed to and fro
among the people, I met an old acquaintance
whom I had known in England, when I first
embraced the Gospel. I went up to him and
said, Well, you have got here? He said, Yes—
to find ou that I have missed the prize I sought.
I knew the Gospel as true, and know it now;
but I stayed in England when I should have
emigrated to Zion, and thus failed to receive my
blessing, and I have sinned against the laws of
God, and must remain a prisoner here for many
years, till I have paid the penalty of my sins be-
fore I can leave this place, and he left me in
great sorrow. A short time afterwards I met
the bishop of the ward where I had lived when
on the earth. I was pleased to meet him, and
shook hands with him, very warmly, and con-
gratulated him that he had finished his work on
the ear[-]h. I told him we would have a good
time together as the labor was very pleasant and
agreeable. He said, I am going to stay here but
a very short time, and then I pass to my rest
I looked at him for a moment with peculiar
feeling, caused by his words, and asked him,
When shall I pass to my rest? I knew I had
kept the faith and been true to my covenants
when on the earth, he made answer, When you
have done the work that I have done, or if un-
able to do so, others do it for you; then you will
pass to your rest, but not till then	W
	The bishop was a practiced polygamist, and as
I awoke immediately after he had spoken, his
work was before my mind, and it was impress-
ed upon my whole being by a power I could not
resist, that unless I performed the same work
and obeyed the celestial law of marriage, I
would never obtain the rest I so much desired.
I accepted the dream as the word of the Lord to
me, indirectly, and I have sought from that
time to serve God, and keep His command-
ments and would advise all who desire the rest
of a Latter-day Saint to seek it through obedi-
ence to the full l[-]w of the Gospel, or they will
be sadly disappointed hereafter. With great re-
spect I remain,
	Your brother in the Gospel,
May 18th, 1884


Parlor feasts extinguish kitchen fires.---Pro-
verb.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Thursday morning Sisters Ellen C. Clawson
and Lydia. Ann Wells went to Big Cottonwood
to attend the meeting of the Primary Associa-
tions of that place; in consequence of the resig-
nasion of the president, Mrs. Esther Davis, a
reorganization was necessary, and Mrs. Ellen
C. Clawson officiated in organizing, and Mrs.
Ellen Sutherland was appointed President;
Mary Ann Brockbank and Mary Quist, Coun-
selors; S. A. Casto and Milo Andrews, Jr.,
made some encouraging remarks. Sisters E.
C. Clawson, E. Howard, and L. A. Wells and
other sisters, addressed the meeting. The aver-
age attendance at this Primary is sixty.
	In the afternoon Sisters Clawson and Dr. E.
B. Ferguson visited the Tenth Ward Primary
it being their annual meeting day. There were
quite a number of the sisters present; the exer-
cises were very good and remarks were made by
Sisters Clawson and Ferguson. Benediction
by Counselor James Woods.
	On Friday Sisters Ellen C. Clawson and
Lydia Ann Wells attended the annual meeting.
at Mill Creek. The four districts meet yearly
and two of them occupy the forenoon and two
the afternoon. Sister Mary Ann Birch presid-
ed in the morning, and Sister Ann Lemon in
the afternoon. Bishop Hamilton was present
and addressed the children; remarks were also
made by Sisters E. O. Clawson, E. Howard
and L. A. Wells. The children acquitted
themselves very well. Dinner was served in
the vestry and all passed off pleasantly. Some
changes were made in the organizations.
	Annual Primary Meeting of the 20th Ward,
city, April 24, opened with singing, and prayer
by Counselor M. E. Dunbar, singing, minutes
read and adopted also yearly report, which was
very creditable.
 The first exercise was an essay by Isabel
Salmon, subject, “The Primary Recitation.
Alice Evans, "A Wish;” Master Fred Daynes,
“A Farmer's Boy;” Mary Romney, song; Reci-
tation by six members, "This World is not so
Bad:" Selina Pusey, "Earnestness;" Dialogue
Pearl Cahoon, Rosie Romney, Annie Sharp,
Emily Clowes; Song, "Murmuring Sea," Alice,
Savage; Recitation, "Mamma tell a Story,"
Master Joseph Daynes; Organ Solo; Chapter of
Bible Questions answered by the children;
Nellie Lyons. recitation; Dialogue by five mem-
bers, "Self-denial;” Susie Ellis, song, "Let us
treat each other kindly," chorus by the child-
ren; Emily Sharp, essay, “The Primary;" Mas-
ter Albert Romney," recitation, “The Blind
Boy;" Hannah Livingston, recitation, "The,
Lost Child; Emma Lyon, organ solo; Lettie
and Maud Potter, recitation Josie Simmons,
reading; Kate Sansom, recitation; Dialogue by
two members, Home-manufacture; Maggie
Salmon, recitation; Dellie Daynes, song; Reci-
tation by six members, “Trust; the Children;”
Maude Lewis, reading; Alice Reynolds, recita- 
tion; Irene Daynes song. One or two other
recitations, the names we did not learn, Song,
Belle May and Maggie Cahoon.
	After the programme was completed Miss
Isabella Salmon with a few appropriate words
presented the President with a purse of money,
as a triflng testimonial of the love and kind
feeling of the children and parents. Sister
Toone was almost overpowered by this dem-
onstration of love and appreciation.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Claw-
son. P. L. Kimball and Louie Felt, Brothers
Dunbar, Savage, Romney, Lewis and Salmon;
also Sisters E. B. Wells, E. B. Ferguson and.
Jane Miller.
	Meeting adjourned for one year, prayer by
T. B. Lewis. Refreshments were then served
to all in the house.
	In the evening there was a very happy so-
cial gathering with songs, recitations and
music.					E. B. W.


FORGIVENESS

	The Savior while on earth taught His disci-
ples to pray thus; Forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those whose who trespass against us,
showing that they must forgive in order to be
forgiven. That they must pardon the faults of
others if they wished to be pardoned. They
must be willing to do unto others as they wish
to be done by.
	Again He says: If thy brother smite thee on
the right cheek turn to him the other, showing
plainly the spirit of forgiveness, and teaching
us that it is wrong to hold hard feelings with
another; that it is our duty to forgive if we are
the inuured person. That it is very wrong to
hold malice. That we should be quick to for-
give, as we hope to be forgiven. How very dis-
tressing it is to see friends, and perhaps rela-
tives, disagree on some small matter, and go
for days or months, and sometimes years, and
never speak to each other, and all the time hold-
ing the worst kind of feelings, even going so
far as to back bite and speak falsely with no-
thing but a difference of opinion for the cause;
each thinking that they are the injured one,
cherishing the bitterest kind of sentiment and
being willing to hear and believe anything that
is detrimental and injurious. How very differ-
ent from the example taught us by the Savior.
He who had  most cause of all to have hard
feelings towards His fellow men. He who was
subject to the grossest of insults, and endured
the most excruciating pain, taught us to for-
give all and hold malice against none. And
He who endured so much could do this? Sure-
ly we ought to over look the faults of others, as
we wish to have ours pardoned. To be able to
forgive an injury shows a strength of character
that is noble and god-like, and will cause much
joy and happiness; while to harbor this feeling
of hate and jealousy will bring nothing but
disconent and misery.
	To live and enjoy the society of those around
us, to pass through life and gain the love and
respect of our associates, and have the approba-
tion of our Heavenly Father, is joy indeed.
Then let us show by our lives, we will follow
the example of our Savior, and overcome all
that is evil.	M.A. CAZIER.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal
Nephi, Utah.


R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
	REPORTS.

	MONTPELIER.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the Relief Socie-
ty meeting, held at Montpelier, March 2nd,
1884, President J. P. Lindsay, presiding.
Singing. Prayer by Bishop Samuel Matthews.
Singing. Minutes of the previous two days
meeting read and approved.
	Remarks were made by President Lindsay
on various subjects calculated to inspire the
sisters with a desire to improve in all good
works and encourage them in the path of duty.
Spoke on the word of wisdom, and also urged
the sisters to take good care of their bodies,
and to set a good example for their children to 
follow.
	Counselor S. T. Holmes said, we all have
talents, and if we do not make use of them we 
will be held accountable for the same. Spoke
about storing grains.
	Bro. Franklin said that President Young
had called upon the brethren many times to 
store grain, but when he found they had not 
followed out his instructions, only in exeption-
al instances, he called upon the sisters. When
the grain is stored up it is stored up unto the
Lord, and when the time comes He will tell us 
what to do with it. A great many people will
come to Zion to be fed and it matters not.
It is our duty to do as we are told, and leave


the result in the hands of the Lord.  It is right
to teach our children to ask the blessing on the
food, and also take their part in family prayer,
and prepare themselves for baptism when they
are eight years old.  The signs of the times
give us to understand that the end is near at
hand.  Desired to do a work in the temple for
his relatives.
	Prest. A. Laker felt that we were in a school.
The Lord has promised us light if we ask for
it.  We want to teach our children the works
of our Savior.  We can wield a great influ-
ence over our children, then how great our res-
ponsibility.  We are surrounded by tempta-
tions, but we must live above them.
 Sister Jnlia Budge said, we may receive
great blessings if we will live for them.  Bore
a faithful testimony to the work of God.
 Prest. N. M. Pugmire thought if we carried
out the instructions received, we would be a
better people than we are to-day.  It was her
desire to do as near right as possible; had
many reflections while listening to the sisters,
and thought that they were noble women.
Wondered if the girls thought of the many
duties resting upon their mothers, and if they
help them whenever the can.  Gave the girls
some good instructions on the choice of a hus-
band.
 Coun. A. Cook said, it is wrong to speak
lightly of the principles of the Gospel; if we
connot understand them we must not use our
influence against them.  We must be careful
whom we keep company with.
 Singing. Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.
Benediction by Bishop Samuel Mathews.
2 p.m.  Meeting opened with singing, prayer
by Bishop H. H. Dalrymple.  Singing.  The
sacrament was then administered, after which
Prest. P. Hogenson bore testimony to the work;
was the only one of a large family that had
embraced the truth, and knew there was a
great work devolving upon her.
 Prest. VanNorman felt well in this great
work. Reported the society in Bennington as
being in a good condition, and made other re-
marks.
 Sister A. Austin thought the society in Lib-
erty was in good condition, and the sisters were
trying to do right.
 Sister Sivins said it was no use to shrink
from our duties if we desired the blessings of
our Heavenly Father.
 Prest. M. Carlson spoke very encouragingly
of the sisters of Ovid.  Spoke of the storing of
grain and said that one bushel of wheat in
time of need would save many lives.
 Prest. M. A. Shepherd desired that the Lord
would qualify her for the position she occupied,
that the object desired by the organization
might be realized.  Bore her testimony to the
truth of the work.
	Miss Julia Budge said she desired to do
whatever was required of her, or she would
never attempt to speak from the stand.  Hoped
that she would prove faithful to her duties.
 Bishop Mathews exhorted the Saints to at-
tend to their prayers, or they would lose the
Spirit of the Lord.  Said many other good
things.
	Bishop H. H. Dalrymple said, the people
of the world thought that the women of this
Church were in bondage, and that by giving
them power they would turn against their hus-
bands, but instead of this they cast a solid vote
for the Kingdom of God.  The sisters who
have spoken to us have had a long experience
in the work, and are very particular what they
teach the people.
	Bishop A. R. Wright said, we must do
whatever is required of us, as it takes a great
deal of moral courage to stand in this Church,
and our integrity will be tried.  Thought that
the ladies had a great deal more influence than
most men would like to give them credit for,

and they should be well educated, and obtain
correct information upon points of doctrine.
Sister Pugmire said, we realize the hand of
the Lord has ever been over us for good.  Let
us aid one another, be kind to the afflicted
and cast down.
	Prest. Lindsay made a few closing remarks,
in which she thanked the people of Montpelrer
for their kind and courteous manner during
the meetings.  If she had power to lift her
voice to the ends of the earth she would show
the world we are not the down-trodden people
we are represented to be. Exhorted all to
stand firm, even unto the end.
	Singing.  Benediction by Elder Thomas
Sleight.
		JULIA BUDGE, Asst. Secretary
				_____
		WOODRUFF, ARIZONA
	I believe we are doing as well as we can in
our Relief Society in this far off land, under
our circumstances.  We were organized one
year ago last January.  Our members number
about twenty, and most of them take a lively
interest in doing all they can.  We have our
testimony meetings once a month, and working
meetings once a month also.  We appreciate
our meetings very much, and feel that they are
a great blessing to us.  The Lord has given us
a commandment to meet together often that we
may be instructed in the truths of His Gospel.
It seems that there is a great deal for the sisters
to do; there is a great responsibility resting up-
on the mothers of Israel to raise their children
in the fear of the Lord.  I feel that we cannot
live too humble and near to God; if we keep
all His laws and commandments and go in
faith, asking Him for such blessings as we
need, even asking for wisdom, we shall re-
ceive.
The EXPONENT is such a valuable and
strengthening paper, and I value it very high-
ly, I don't know how I could do without it, I
take so much pleasure in reading its columns.
My prayer is that God who knows all things
will bless our desires to do good everywhere.
CATHERINE HATCH,
President.

SNOWFLAKE, ARIZONA
EDITOR EXPONENT;
I would like to tell you a little how our so-
ciety is getting along, but I fear I am trespas-
sing upon your time, which I know is precious.
I will just say that the sisters are doing well,
and are united.  We are just now out of debt,
having built us a good sawn log house, which
has been [--]r two years past the only meeting
house w[-] [--]ve had.  We are working now to pay
a fifty [---]r donation on our new brick meet-
ing [---]. Our Bishop has counselled us to
fen[--] [---]r let this spring, which we have taken
a vo[-] to try to do.  Just as soon as we can
we want our names upon the books as donors
to the Deseret Hospital, we would rejoice if you
could make us a visit.
Your sister,
MARY J. K. WEST.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


<mk: "="" f00="" -="" :j="" om,1,u="" !="" oj="" km="" 710'i',;v="" j:)="" i'w="" thoy..="" ,ja="" jlwi...ap="" ermaryi="" agspqiption="" of="" .ina="" place="" united="" in="" getting="" up="" a="" programme="" or="" .the="" celehration="" mayday="" pavjucb,="" in-order="" motfei="" interfere?.ithuhreddayn$et-="" ztn="" nr.yri;?!:="" ?yc="" (h="" uc-="" jng="" rwftpned="" rtuiexequted;="" ty#k<5hisv©d="" —="" ammnn,fn="" an="" nf="" pleasure="" nntjriijgef<="" div="">MAY-DAY FESTIVITIES.

ST. JOHNS, Arizona.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Y.L.M.I.A. and Primary Association 
of this place united in getting up a programme
for the celebration of May-day which, in order 
not to interfere with the regular fast day meet-
ings, was celebrated on Friday the twelfth ult.
The affair proved a complete success, as we 
had no doubt it would, the arrangements be-
ing planned and executed by the ladies and 
afforded our community a day of real pleasure
and enjoyment, thanks to the untiring ef-


forts and indefatigable labors of Sister M. E.
Freeman, President of the Young Ladies' As-
sociation, together with officers of the Primary
and some of the sisters who kindly assisted in
teaching the children their different exercises.
	The only diaagreeable feature of the day
was the unpropitious weather, which was more
like December than May, raining nearly all
day, making it quite muddy, but in spite of
the weather the assembly room was filled till 
there was scarcely standing room left. At half
past nine the assembly was called to order,
and after the usual exercises the Young Ladies
and Primaries each crowned their queen with 
their customary ceremony; following which
were songs, recitations, etc., each of which are
deserving of special mention, but I feel that
it would not be just to encroach too much on
your limited space.
	I must however mention the "Address to
Parents," delivered by Sister Amanda Dana,
in behalf of the Primary, and the representa-
tion of the Young Ladies through their manu-
script paper, "The Advocate," edited by Sister
Ella Udall, and read by Miss Ida Hunt; it was
excellent, and displayed much literary ability
on the part of editor and contributors, and is a
great credit to the association.
	The whole affair, without one exception,
passed off very pleasantly, the little ones win-
ning desereved applause. The exercises were
all performed by members of the two associa-
tions, with the exception of an address by Bish-
op D. K. Udall and singing by the choir.
	Owing to our backward spring, nature failed
to supply a single offering in the shape of flor-
al decorations necessary for such an occasion,
consequently the deficiency had to be supplied
by artificial means, which was done by the
young ladies uniting their efforts and making
artificial cloth and paper flower ; these, with
pine and cedar boughs, made b [--]tiful bou-
quets and festooning.
	At the close of the exercises a free and easy 
picnic was in order until two o'clock, when the
little folks met to enjoy themselves in the
dance. During the afternoon those present
witnessed a pretty sight, the braiding of the
"May pole" by a number of little girls dressed
in white.
	The festivities of the day closed with a 
grand leap year ball in the evening given by
and for the benefit of the Young Ladies' As-
sociation, which all agreed was one of the most
enjoyable parties ever held in St. Johns; good
order and a universal feeling of sociability 
prevailed, and all enjoyed themselves.
	ONE WHO KNOWS.


A PLEASANT GATHERING
A surprise party inn honor of the thirty-
eighth anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Margaret Ballard, President of the Second
Ward Relief Society, Logan, Cache Co., was
given April 14th, at her residence.  She was
also presented with an elegant album and a
pair of vases, in behalf of the teachers of the
Relief Society.  Sister Ballard in terms of
gratitude expressed her heartfelt thanks and
appreciation for the honor and esteem which
the sisters entertained for her:  Then followed
songs, recitations and speeches, all of which
were appropriate for the occasion, and a very
enjoyable time was spent which will be long
remembered by all.
				EMELINE E. JAMES
May 9th, 1884.


Be fit for more than the thing you are doing.
If you are not too large for the place, you are
too small for it- Garfield.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OLD FOLKS ANNUAL PARTY.
			--------------
		 BLOOMINGTON.
			--------------
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our annual party for the aged of our settle-
ment on January 31st of the present year, at which up-
wards of a hundred persons sat down to dinner; it was
a very enjoyable affair.  After which in regular order
the following programme was carried out: Song, "We
thank thee, O God, for a Prophet," prayer by Bro. P.
Greenbalgh, singing, "O my Father," Opening address
by President J. H. Hart, in which he expressed his pleas-
ure at meeting with us, and also gave some excellent
instructions.  Bishop Wm. Hulme expressed his desire
to have a roll and minutes read at the next meeting.
Song, Sister Mary Roberts: address, Sister A. Womsley:
dance, Father Nelson: song, Bro. and Sister Greenbalgh
and Jarvis; recitation, "Bread upon the Waters," Sister
L. M. Hart; dancing; address, Father Nelson; Danish
song, Bro. Holtz; speech, Bro. Quinton; song "You've
been a friend to me," J. Haddock; song, Sister Roberts.
address, Prest. S. Greenbalgh; song, "Hard times come
again no more," Bro. and Sister Jarvis, song, "The
man behind the plow," J. H. Hart; speech, Sister C.
Long; Negro song, Bishop Hulme; song, Father Patter-
son; speech, Sister M. Roberts; song, "The bobbin-wind-
er," Bro. P. Greenbalgh; song, "The old Wooden Rock
er," Misses Mary and Adelia Greenhalgh.  Singing
benediction by Prest. Hart.
	Dancing was interspersed throughout the programme,
which was in two parts, refreshments being served at
the intermission.  A good spirit prevailed, and all
seemed to enjoy the entertainment.  We have plenty of
snow on the ground, but the weather is mild.
	Wishing your valuable paper success, I beg leave to
subscribe myself, your sister in the Gosepl,
				SARAH GREENBALUGH, President.
				E. C. PIGGOTT, Secretary.


A SURPRISE PARTY.!

On the 29th of April the Y. L. M. I. A. of Minersville
gave a surprise party in honor of their president, Sister
Lydia Blackburn.  The Association, with a few elderly
people, met at the Relief Society house at six o'clock.
After the tables were spread and everything put in or-
der, the president was informed that her presence was
required at the R. S. house, her surprise when entering
the house where some fifty or sixty people were gath-
ered was very great.  A nice dress pattern was then
presented to her by the association.  After supper James
H. Rollins was elected chairman, and the remainder of
the evening was spent in a very enjoyable way, by sing-
ing, recitations, speeches, etc
	Bishop James Mc.Knight and Counselor George Eyre
made some very interesting remarks, also President Ly-
dia Blackburn expressed her gratitude for the honor
shown her on the occasion.  It was then motioned that
the minutes of the proceedings be sent to the Exponent
for publication.  The company broke up at twelve
o’clock, feeling that the time had been well spent.
IDA  MARSHAL,
HELEN STODDARD,
IDA HAMBLIN,
 Committee of arrangements.
		H.S.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with a feeling of regret that I write to acquaint
the readers of your valuable paper of the sudden death
of our young sister, Jennie Bush.  She died on the 17th
of March, after only a few hours sickness, of congestion
of the brain.  She was young, being only twenty-three
years old, and what seems more sad, was on the eve of
giving birth to her first born babe.  Much sympathy is
felt for her husband.  Bro. John P. Bush, in this two-fold
bereavement, and lady's mother and relatives in
Beaver.
	Deceased came into our midst about one year and a
half ago a comparative stranger.  During the most of
this time she has been occupied in teaching the public
school, in which she did a good work.  By her kindness
and intelligence she gained many friends, and was in-
deed a useful member of our community.  Her loss
will be felt by all.  She was reverently carried from her
own home to the meeting house, where the services were


held, by eight pall bearers, members of her school, and
followed by her immediate friends  and all the school
children.  It was a solemn and impressive sight; all
those little children whom she had taught to love her
by her kindness following her with grief stricken hearts
and faces to her last reseting place.
	The audience was addressed with comforting words by
Bros. Briggs and Pomeroy, also by Prest. J. F. Mac
Donald.  Forty-four vehicles and about four hundred
people followed the remains of our sister to the cem-
etery, where she was laid to rest, to await the resurrec-
tion of the just.
			Yours, very respectfully.
					JANE A. MACDONALD.
					_______
	DIED, at Midway,"Wasatch Co., Utah, March 11, 1884,
Sister Harriet Watkins.  She was the daughter of John
Steele and Mary Woods Steele, and was born December
5th, 1841, at Harley, Staffordshire, England.  She has
been the mother of 18 children, 9 of whom are living,
one a babe three hours old; her death was very sudden,
which cast a feeling of gloom over the entire ward.  She
died as she had lived, beloved and respected by all who
knew her.  She was a devoted wife and a loving moth-
er, was a member of the Relief Society, and our treasur-
er for many years- Always faithful in the performance
of every duty.
	Rest in peace, dear sister, until the resurrection of the
just,when you'll again meet husband, children and
friends, never more to be separated.
							MARY BRONSON.
Midway, May 13,1831.


Sarcasm is the natural language of the dev-
il.—Carlyle,

	Our prayers and God's mercy are like two
buckets in a well; while one ascends the other 
descends.—Bishop Hopkins.


SPENCER HOUSE.

	We are so often spoken to in reference to a 
good house to stop at by stranger visiting our 
city, as also by our people from the settlements, 
that we take pleasure in recommending the 
"Spencer House" as thorougly respectable, 
clean and pleasant.  The table has long borne 
the reputation of not being excelled; the 
grounds are the largest of any hotel grounds in 
the city, which, with its extensive lawns and 
abundant shade trees, make it pre-eminently a 
most inviting resort for tourists—prices are 
reasonable.
	This house is situated on Post Office Block,
1st East, between 2nd and 3rd South, Nos. 251
and 252.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, - 25c. per copy 
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1, - $1.00 
"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving 
	of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE 
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow, 
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, - 1.50

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP, 
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON 
Office and residence, Main Street, in the new Mor-
is building, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.
	SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D. 
	OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Residence, Twelfth 
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
	Special Attention given to Diseases of the 
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Lesidence 

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street. 

[Drawing of building with ALL PAPER DINWOODEY FURNITURE UPHOLSTERY MD WOODEY'S FURNITURE written on the outside part of the building]

HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
WALL PAPER, 
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS 
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

[Giant F on left side]
Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods 
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
CALL AND EXAMINE.


__________________________________________________________________________

					     W O M A N ' S      E X P O N E N T .
__________________________________________________________________________

	  The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
