VOL. 14 13	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1885	No. 19.


MUSIC! MUCH I OWE TO THEE!

Minstrell of an art divine—
God has blest that Soul of thine
With a gift directly given
From the chancery of Heaven!
Mode and method may be taught,
But the spirit must be fraught
With the affatus all divine,
To inspire, inflate—and shine
Into every craving Soul,
And o'er it throws a charm'd control,
That lifts the list'ning ear entranced
Into a region all enhanced
By whisp'rings, language cannot tell,
But which the co-mate knows so well.

Hug this gift with miser's care,
Gift exalting, gift so rare!
Pray the Giver to inspire
All thy Soul with holy fire;
Ask Him to direct thy hand
To strike the chords that shall command
Holy feeling—rapturous joy,
Crushing out life's base alloy.

Thy gift shall be a costly gem,
Eternal in thy Diadem;
Calm and chasten'd mayst thou be,
Walking in humility,
Walking in the blessed light
Which thine art shall o'er ignite;
Grateful to thy God—that He
A gift divine has sent to thee,
Hug it with a miser care—
Gift exalting—gift so rare!

	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, 1885.


BETWEEN THE YEARS.

Time's river flows without a break or bridge,
	The moments run to days, the days to years:
Strange how we pause on the dividing ridge,
	Which 'twixt Old Year and New our fancy rears!

With backward survey o'er the dark "has been,"
	With forward gaze into the dark "to be."
Summing the good and ill that we have seen,
	As if God's purposes stood plain to see—

As if 'twere man's to reach heaven's far off ends;
	To reckon up Time's harvest in the seed;
To write off gains of good and ill's amends—
	The balance of their books as traders read.

As thick a fold between us and the past,
	As e'er between us and the future lies:
The ills we grieve for may work good at last:
	Out of our seeming good what ills may rise!

Only one thing we know, that over all
	A wise and loving power holds sovereign sway:
This knowing, let us stand between the years,
	Bent but to do the duty of the day;

Speaking the truth and holding to the right,
	As we the truth can reach, the right can read;
Trusting the hand that steers, through dark and light;
	By His lode-star, not ours, to ends decreed.

Between our larger and our lesser worlds,
	Of self, home, city, state, or continent,
There is no variance of far or near,
	Of great or small, in that Guide's measurement,

Twixt strokes of policy that hit or miss,
	And sleights of skill that make or mar a cause.
Then, grateful, take his gifts, his strokes, submiss,
	And look to man for rule, to Heaven for laws.

		PUNCH.


THE PAST, THE PRESENT AND
THE FUTURE.

DEAR FRIENDS:
	Thinking that a letter from this part of the
vineyard would be of interest to some of your
readers, if not all, I take the liberty of writ-
ing.
	While I reflect on the past, gaze on the
present and look through the gloom into the
future, it causes many serious reflections to
cross my mind. What do those throughts bring
to mind—does it bring always pleasure? I
think not. Is it all sorrow? No, not by any
means; but I think it is necessary for us to have
these trials; in order to make us think, and to
think of the past as well as the future, for in
looking back over our past life we see, very
often, where we have done wrong, and if we
have a heart that desires to do right, we will
make an effort to do so; and let us not think
because we have done wrong that we can-
not do anything that is right in the future, but
let us, each morning that we rise from our beds,
see if we cannot do a little more good that day
and a little less evil, so that when that future
comes, that seems so far and is yet so near,that
we may have some good laid up to balance
against the bad. We call ourselves Saints, but
I fear some of us are not aware of what per-
fect beings we ought to be; I think that we
should live so that the word saint will not be
wrongly applied, for we do not want to estab-
lish anything that is false. Let us try and live
the lives of Latter-day Saints, for we know not
the day nor the hour that we may be called to
depart from this life, and it will then be our
painful duty to give an account of the deeds
done in the body, and of what use we have
made of the time that our Heavenly Father
has granted us.
	If our time and means have been spent for
good and the advancement of His cause and
the comforting of his children it will be well
for us, if not it will be very painful indeed to
our souls. I trust that all who claim to be
Saints may be faithful to the end of all right-
eousness.
	We have a Relief Society in working order,
also a Y. M. and Y. L. Association in a good
condition. There is a Primary Association,
but it has not done much for the past year. I
think it is going to be enlivened up soon; I
think it is the greatest thing for the benefit of
the children that has ever yet been in our day,
when it is strictly attended.
	May the blessings of God rest upon the
young, that their minds may expand.
	K. E. D.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	When I look back and remember the great
responsibility that rested upon my father as
first Bishop—his poverty and privations, and
the hardships that he had to endure, the accu-
sations of false brethren, the fault-finding of
the poor, and the persecutions of our enemies
—I do not wonder at his early death. And
when I remember his conversations with my
mother, and can now comprehend, in my ma-
ture years, his extreme weariness of soul, it

[Column 2]

brings to my mind a clause of his blessing,
which says, "Thou shalt stand in thy office un-
til thou shalt desire to resign it, that thou
mayest rest for a little season."
	I think it was the first fall of our stay in
Clay Co. that a slaughter yard was established
on the banks of the river not far from where
we lived: thousands of hogs were killed and
packed for the market, giving employment to
the Saints in that vicinity. The men killing
and cutting them up, and the women and chil-
dren cutting up and trying out the lard,having
a share of all they did, and in this way the
people were provided with meat and lard,which
was a great blessing at that time. I remember
of going with mother, and doing what I could
to help her, day after day.
	While we remained in Clay County the
brethren did all they could to regain possession
of their homes. They petitioned the Governor,
employed lawyers, and tried in various ways to
gain redress, but all their efforts proved to be of
no avail. The Prophet Joseph Smith manifest-
ed great anxiety concerning the Saints in Zion
He was constantly writing letters advising
them what to do, and sending words of com-
fort and encouragement.	Revelations were
given assuring the Saints that the Lord re-
membered them in their afflictions. A father
could not have manifested more love and anx-
iety if his best beloved son had been in deep
trouble, than the Prophet did in regard to the
Saints in Missouri and their persecutions.
	The following are extracts from one of the
letters that the Prophet sent to the brethren in
Zion: "I would inform you that it is not the
will of the Lord for you to sell your lands in
Zion, if means can possibly be procured with-
out. Every exertion should be made to main-
tain the cause you have espoused and to con-
tribute to the necessities of one another as
much as possible in this your great calamity;
and remember not to murmur at the dealings
of God with His creatures. You are not as
yet brought into as trying circumstances as
were the ancient Prophets and Apostles. Call
to mind Daniel, the three Hebrew children,
Jeremiah, Paul, Stephen, and many more too
numerous to mention, who were stoned, sawn
asunder, tempted, slain with the sword, and
wandered about in sheep' skins and goat's
skins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of
whom the world were not worthy. They wan-
dered in deserts and in mountains,and in dens,
and in caves of the earth; yet they all obtained
a good report through faith, and amidst all
their afflictions they rejoiced that they were
counted worthy to receive persecution for
Christ's sake. We know not what we shall
be called to pass through before Zion is deliv-
ered and established; therefore, we have great
need to live near to God and always be in
strict obedience to all His commandments,that
we may have a conscience void of offence
towards God and man. It is your privilege to
use every means in your power to seek redress
for your grievances of your enemies, and pros-
ecute them to the extent of the law; but it will
be impossible to render you any assistance in a
temporal point of view, as our means are
already exhausted, and we are deeply in debt,
and know of no means whereby we can extri-
cate ourselves. The inhabitants of this county
threaten our destruction and we know not how
soon they may be permitted to follow the ex-
ample of the Missourians. We learn by Elder
Phelp's letter that the brethren have surren-


[Column 1]

dered their arms to the enemy and are fleeing
across the river.  If that is the case, it is not
meet that they should recommence hostilities
with them[-] but if not, you should maintain the
ground as long as there is a man left, as the
spot of ground upon which you were located is
the place appointed of the Lord for your inher-
itances, and it was right in the sight of God,
that you contend for it to the last.
     "You will recollect that the Lord has said
that Zion should not be removed out of her
place;therefore, the land should not be sold,
but be held by the Saints until the Lord in His
wisdom opens the way for your return; and un-
til that time, if you can purchase a tract of
land in Clay County for the present emergen-
cies, it is right you should do so, if you can do
it and not sell your lands in  Jackson County.
It is not safe for us to send a written revelation
on the subject, but what is written above is ac-
cording to wisdom."
     The foregoing letter was written at Kirtland
on the 5th of Dec. 1833.  A letter was also
written dated Kirtland Mills, Ohio,Dec. 10th,
1833. 
	"Beloved brethren, E. Partridge, W. W.
Phelps, J. Corrill,J. Morley, and all the Saints
whom it may concern: This morning's mail
brought Bishop Partridge's, and Elders Corrill
and Phelps' letters, all mailed at Liberty, Nov[-]
19th, which gave us the melancholy intelli-
gence of your flight from the land of your in-
heritance, having been driven before the face
of your enemies in that place.  From previous
letters we learned that a number of our breth-
ren had been slain, but we could not learn from
those referred to above, as there had been but
one, and that was Bro. Barber, and Bro. Dib-
ble was wounded in the bowels.  We were
thankful to learn that no more had been slain,
and our daily prayers are that the Lord will
not suffer His Saints who have gone up to His
land to keep His commandments, to stain His
holy mountain with their blood.  I cannot
learn from any communication by the Spirit to
me that Zion has forfeited her claim to a Celes-
tial Crown, notwithstanding the Lord has
caused her to be thus afflicted, except it may
be some individuals who have walked in dis-
obedience and forsaken the new covenant; all
such will be made manifest by their works in
due time.
     "I have always expected that Zion would suf
fer some affliction, from what I could learn
from the commandments which have been
given.  But I would remind you of a clause in
one which says that after much tribulation
cometh the blessing. By this, and also others,
and also one received of late,I know that Zion,
in the own due time of the Lord, will be re-
deemed; but how many will be the days of her
purification, tribulation and affliction the Lord
has kept hid from my eyes;and when I inquire
concerning this subject the voice of the Lord
is, be still, and know that I am God:  All
those who suffer for my name sake shall reign
with me, and he that layeth down his life for
my sake shall find it again.
     "Now, there are two things of which I am
ignorant, and the Lord will not show them un-
to me, perhaps for a wise purpose in Himself,
I mean in some respects; and they are these:
why has God suffered so great a calamity to
ocme upon Zion, and what the great moving
cause of this great afflication is.  And again,by
what means He will return her back to her in-
heritance with everlasting joy upon her head.
These two things, brethren, are in part kept
back that they are not plainly manifest,in con-
sequence of those who have incurred the dis-
pleasure of the Almighty.
     "When I contemplate upon all things that
have been manifested, I am sensible that I
ought not to murmur only in this, that those
who are innocent are compelled to suffer for
the iniquities of the guilty; and I cannot ac-

[Column 2] 

count for this, only on this wise, that the say-
ing of the Savior has not been strictly ob-
served, 'If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it
out and cast it from thee; or if thy right arm
offend thee, cut it off and cast it from thee.'
Now, the fact is, if any of the members o[-] our
body are disordered the rest of our body will
be affected with them, and then all is brought
into bondage together; and yet,  notwithstand-
ing all this, when I know that you, my breth-
ren, with whom I have had so many happy
hours, sitting, as it were, in heavenly places in
Christ Jesus, and also having the witness
which I feel, and ever have felt, of the purity
of your motives, are cast out, and are as stran-
gers and pilgrims on the earth, exposed to hun-
ger, cold, nakedness, peril, sword, etc. I say,
when I comtemplate this, it is with difficulty
that I can keep from complaining and mur-
muring against this dispensation; but I am sen-
sible that this is not right, and may God grant
that notwithstanding your great afflictions and
sufferings, there may not anything separate us
from the love of Christ. 
	"Brethren, when we learn your sufferings it
awakens every sympathy of our hearts, it
weighs us down, we cannot refrain from tears,
yet we are not able to realize only in part your
sufferings.	And I often hear the brethren say[-]
ing that they wish they were with you that
they might bear part of your sufferings: and I
myself should have been with you, [-]ad not
God prevented it in the order of His provi-
dence, that the yoke of affliction might be less
grievious upon you; God having forewarned
me concerning these things, for your sakes; and
also Oliver Cowdery could  not have lightened
your afflictions by tarrying longer with you,for
his presence would have so much the more en-
raged your enemies.  God hath dealth merciful-
ly with us.
     "O brethren, let us be thankful th at it is as
well with us, as it is, and we are yet alive, that
preadventure God hath la[-]d up in store great
good for us in this generation, and  grant that
we may yet glorify His name."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿ONLY A TRAMP.

	My husband, returning home from a short
walk one Sunday morning, related to me a lit-
tle incident that took place while absent. He
said:
	"As I was walking leisurely along, deeply
absorbed in thought, a tramp, as they are com-
monly called,suddenly came upon me unawares.
I saluted him wtth a pleasant 'good morning,
sir,' received a gruff answer in return, and as
we were both going in the same direction, we
both passed along together. The conversation
turned upon the topic uppermost in almost
every person's mind, that is, hard times. He
stated that he had just come from Idaho; had
been all through seeking work—he had rode
but a short distance, and had walked the rest
of the way to Salt Lake City, but the famine
for work being so great he had been so far un-
successful.
	He said it seemed as though there was
nothing but scoffs and jeers for him, and that
it was printed on every board, "There is
nothing here for you." And he also said: "I
shall not starve in a land of plenty. If I can-
not get means by honest labor I shall resort to
other ways!" With this, and other similar
careless and reckless speeches he left me.
	It set my husband to contemplating: Could
it be that we were driving a great many of
our fellow beings to destruction, simply by
giving them careless, cold, indifferent speeches,
when it would not take any more exertion to
give a few kind, encouraging words? for it is
far better to help a fallen brother up hill,than
to kick him down.
	While he was relating this incident a young
girl about twelve years of age, being in the

[Column 2]

house, commenced laughing and jesting about
an experience she, with some other playmates
of about the same age, had had with two
tramps.
	Coming home from school one night, and
seeing a couple of so called tramps ahead of
them; they immediately devised mischief to-
wards them; they threw stones at them, at the
same time calling them abusive names that were
entirely uncalled for.
	The said tramps turned upon them angrily,
thereby frightening them some, but as soon as
they resumed their way they immediately be-
gan their abuse again until they were beyond
their reach.
	Thus it was that two men, fellow creatures,
walking along, minding their own business,
were molested and abused, simply because they
were ungainly in appearance.
	To my question put to her, "Did those men
interfere with you in the first place?" she said,
"Oh, now!" "Then why did you interfere with
them?" "Oh, they were only tramps, and we
wanted some fun."
	Methinks it should be one of the first princi-
ples that parents should instil into the minds
of their children, to be kind to every one.
Never speak a harsh word, or perform a rude
act, just because their outward appearances
are ungainly. Strive to act the lady and
gentleman to all, to the rich and to the poor—
the poor are just as much deserving and some-
times much more.
	Remember that sometimes the fairest flower
has oft hidden within its bosom some subtle
poison, and those who inhale its perfume are
slowly imbibing death; and it is just so with
some people; they are dressed fine, have a
smooth, oily speech, and seem without tarnish
or taint, but notwithstanding all this, beneath
lurks some evil, venomous spirit; and some-
times the humblest flower has hidden some
kind, healing power, likewise with some people
whom adversity has frowned on too severely,
they have an ungainly exterior, but under-
neath all of this may beat a warm, true heart.
So remember and beware, if you scoff and jeer,
make sport of a poor, fallen creature because
of his ungainly attire you may be abusing
a diamond of the first water, for you know we
have to dig deep to find the finest diamonds, or
what would be far worse, this same one might
be one of God's chosen elect.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mary Howitt still lives in Tyrol. She is now
eighty-five years old.
	Miss Matilda Hindman makes her depart-
ment in the Pittsburg Commercial Gazette in-
teresting and useful.
	Rosa Bonheur's last painting, a cattle scene
in the Pyrenees, has been offered to a New
York dealer for $12,000.
	The Canada Citizen says that the municipal
vote of the women in the late electoral contest
decided the election of mayor in Fergus and
Belleville.
	In the Ecole de Médecine in Paris, there are
seventy-eight female students, of whom forty
six are Russians,fourteen Frenchwomen, eleven
Englishwomen, and seven Americrns.
	A bill for municipal suffrage for women has
been formally introduced in the Michigan Sen-
ate by Senator Belknap. It was given a first
and second reading by title, and referred to
the Committee on Judiciary.
	Mme. Patti telegraphed from America, in
holiday week, ordering that a tradesman at
Swansea should send three wagon loads of
blankets and flannel to Crag-y-nos for distribu-
tion among the poor in the neighborhood of
her country residence.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY RECORD.

	BY ESTHER A. BENNION

All day long I have baffled with care -
	Go from my presence, thou restless sprite,
Leave me to rest in my old arm-chair,
Leave me alone with my thoughts to night.

Slowly rolls backward the backward the curtain of time,
	Bringing me back to my early youth;
Back to my home in my native clime,
	Where gladly I heard the message of truth.

I plainly remember the vows I made
	To serve my God with a faithful heart,
To seek to become a Saint indeed,
If strength sufficient He would impart.

Year after year has faded away;
	Joys and sorrows have come to me;
The hair of my head is sprinkled with grey,
	My step more feeble than used to be.

Have I been true to the vows I made -
	What is the record my conscience bears?
Have I been true to the light I had -
	instead of wheat am I sowing tares?

Come, little children, and plead for me:
	Have I not loved you with love untold?
Have I not taught you most earnestly
Truths that are better than silver or gold?

You that were lent to me, sons of my heart,
Will you not answer me frankly and just,
Have I not acted a true mother's part,
Have I not tried to be true to my trust?

Where are the aged and weary to-night,
Have I not striven to comfort and bless,
Have I not ever defended the right,
And held out a hand to help in distress?

I wish I oculd peep at the records above--
In courts of heaven--by angels kept,
To see if my name is written in love,
Or branded as one who "slumbered and slept."

Resting awhile in my old arm chair,
All alone, in the dead of the night,
With noe but God and my conscience near,
I fear my record is far from bright.

Ah me!  I have made so many mistakes;
Have failed so often my duty to see;
"The spirit is willing, the flesh is weak,"
	Father, I pray Thee, deal gently with me!
Feb. 17th, 1885.


TO THE GIRLS.

Be true to yourselves, girls, always be true;
Be honest, be upright, whatever you do;
Give heed to the monitor God placed in you
To guide you aright, girls—'twill carry you through.

Be true to yourselves, girls, be pleasant, be kind,
For in giving true friendship true friends you will find;
And for every good deed in your lives that you do,
Will be paid back ten fold in good deeds to you.

Be modest, be gentle, be helpful to all,
Let your tongue not speak words they would wish to
	recall;
Girls, keep no company not worthy of you,
For if you choose wisely, you've enough to pass
	through.

Speak kindly to mother—if you could but know
The pleasure you give, how it makes her heart glow—
By a sweet, loving sympathy sharing her cares,
Removing by kindness the hardships of years.

And now, dearest girls, of one thing take heed,
If you cannot see into your good parent's creed,
Are there things in their faith that you don't compre-
	hend,
Inquire of them kindly, and never contend;

For they have the knowledge, God gave, it to them,
Of the truth and the power of their faith, and to men
Who have proved it, and left all their friends for the
	cause,
'Tis hurtful to hear you make light of God's laws.

And oh! dear young sisters, in years that's to come,
When you look back and think of your childhood's
	home,


And know you were kind, and loving, and true,
It will comfort and cheer you all your life through.
		ANNIE FREE.
	Manuscript Paper, "Farmer's Ward Gazette."


[Column 1]

COLLEGE EVILS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is a serious question if the risks people
take in sending their children away from home
to be educated do not far out-balance the prob-
able good an education will bring. It is true
that evil is not necessarily evil associated either
with going away from home, or with an educa-
tion; and it is just as true that there is no neces-
sary association of what is commonly under-
stood by the word "greatness" with a college,
or a superior education. The object of life is,
or should be, perfect manhood and womanhood
—that perfection which embraces all the moral,
intellectual and social excellences known to
the age we live in, and to the strong and crav-
ing spirit of humanity.
	Education in its broadest sense implies all
knowledge, and all experience; so that to live
and to retain the power of intellect, is, in that
sense, ever to become better educated. But
special pursuits, special studies (and it is with
these we now deal), do not comprehend that
fuller education which comprises all things.
College education, nor any special education, is
not the great object.
	Like all other segregated fragments of a
grand and perfect whole, it is but one of many
equally important and essential attainments;
like all the rest, it is but a means to an end—
that end, human perfection. This fact does
not detract from the value of scholastic attain-
ments, for all knowledge is a power—but a
power, it must ever be borne in mind, equally
potent for good or for evil. The element of
goodness, or virtue, or moral excellence, is out-
side of scholarly erudition, it exists independ-
ent of it; wider knowledge simply widens the
scope for the exercise of those attributes which
are comprehended in the general term good;
consequently there is a possibility that exten-
sive, or even limited learning may be acquired
at the expense of those higher and nobler and
more desirable attributes or attainments known
as moral excellences, and it is often the case
that the little benefit which college pursuits
and experiences bring to young men are dearly
bought, particularly where the price is the
moral basis, foundation or intuition. That is
why the assertion contained in the introductory
sentence was made. "It is a serious question
if the risks people take in sending their child-
ren away from home to be educated don't far
out-balance the possible good an education will
bring."
	Young men, or boys, sent to college, leave
home at a time when character is forming. The
plastic condition of the mind and the suscepti-
bility of nature at that age, which render in-
struction so satisfactory and productive of such
lasting results—are not without dangers, for
the same mobility of mind and susceptibiliiy of
nature are as often to the influences of evil as
of good. The character is then a tender bud,
developing into the perfect flower, where the
conditions are congenial, but dwarfed, and
scraggy and unsightly if the surroundings are
adverse, or if the care is not uniform. It is
the most dangerous period in the life of man or
woman, the hour when most is needed the
watchful eye of the earnest parent. At that
trying hour the parent who sends his son away
from home influence, or permits him to leave
it, offers him as a bait to every temptation of a
vile and wicked world.
	The faculty of a college deal with the intel-
lect not with the moral nature of the pupil, for
three reasons: First, the parent does not want
the teacher to teach that branch; the faculty

[Column 2]

could not do it, and the student will not sub-
mit to it. The boy is social; he seeks compan-
ions who, like himself, want entertainment.
Study is work, and work, save to prodigies, old
or young, is irksome. To escape study is to
be free from work. They plan to be idle, not
meaning harm, and then begins the awakening
to that endless round of sin, to which the
vices and ingenuity of the wicked and the vile
have, for century upon century, been accumu-
lating. There is no loving, no watchful no
guarding eye. The boy is his own master. He
cannot appreciate the danger, and he tastes and
tastes again, until he drinks of the cup, filled
with what seems to be wondrously delicious
drafts. yet at the bottom of which is the poison
of disease and death. Is it a wonder that boys
fall? Money is sent them and they send it
as they will. Half—nay, three-fourths of the
boys who leave a college, depart from it little
if any the better, intellectually, for the time
spent there, and they are moral wrecks; their
consciences are inured to sin; the highest law
known to them is personal gratification with
such reasonable or unreasonable restraint as
they may determine from themselves. The
fact that all are guilty, or equally "free from
old fogy restraint," as it is put, serves only to
give them confidence, and the old sting is ulti-
mately realized if license in the man, which
begins with the boy, widens the mistaken idea
that it is liberty.
	I was in New York on Thanksgiving Day.
The college boys indulged in a holiday; there
was a brutal contest called "foot ball." At
night a friend asked me to go with him; we
visited several concert rooms, and they were
crowded beyond the power of words to express
with these college students, boys not yet out of
their teens, smoking, chewing, drinking and
drunken. They were swaggering and stagger-
ing about, displaying money, and were the easy
victims of vile men, and of the vile (I can
hardly say unfortunate) women, who crowded
about them like leeches, luring them to that
loss of morality which should be above all
price—that highest intellectual, moral, spirit-
ual and social attainment—virtue. I wondered
how much the mothers of these boys knew of
their college life; and it does not take me long
to decide that the probable benefits were not
sufficient compensation for the risks taken, for
the almost certain evil to follow. This is not
an unusual event; it is the rule where opportuni-
ty is afforded.
	If College education is the great desidera-
tum then send your boys away from home. If
it is only a means to an end I  believe the end
can better be accomplished. Of course this
evil is not a necessary attendant; boys go and
return pure, but the temptation is to all. Those
who resist it are few indeed.
	WANDERING BOY.


On Wednesday, January 28th, the direct ca-
ble was broken about 400 miles from the coast
of Ireland, and it is believed that it cannot be
repaired until spring. This makes the fourth
cable lost by the allied companies--the two
Gould cables, the French and the direct. The
Anglo and the Commercial are the only two 
lines in working order.

	Patents have been issued for the week end-
ing Feb. 3, 1884:
	Martha E. Boyd, Carthage, Ill., foot-warm-
er.
	Sarah A. Moulton, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
meat-tender.
	Margaret E. Knight, Ashland, Mass., spit
for roasting meat.
	Anna M. Rittenhouse, Philadelphia, Pa., ink-
well guard.
	Mary R. Walpole, Mayfield, Ky., wash-
boiler.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for tha price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines, of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Office, Room No. 4, up stairs, Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m.to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1885


THE INAUGURATION OF CLEVELAND.

	An event of great importance to the people of
the United States is now just at hand. The in-
auguration of the Chief Executive of the Re-
public. To all who love their country and ap-
preciate the administration of law and justice it
will be a momentous time. It will doubtless
portend great changes in many places and in
different respects. The Democratic party have
been waiting long for an opportunity to show
their strength in the nation, and at the time of
the election of Rutherford B. Hayes in 1877, the
party felt sure of a complete victory, but were
obliged to submit with the best grace possible to
their defeat. This time there seems to be no
shadow on their cloudless horizon, but all is
clear, and every prospect bids fair to usher in
the President elect with all the pomp and cere-
mony a Republican form of government makes
admissible.
     Already grand and elaborate preparations are
being made at the Capital, and a gathering of
noted people from all parts of the country has
commenced in good earnest. Washington will
be fairly ablaze with splendor for one day at
least, and although Grovesnor Cleveland is said
to be a very plain and unassuming man in the
matter of display and eclat, yet on this one oc-
casion society and custom will compel him to
accept for the day at least the formal attentions
and homage of an enthusiastic and delighted
populace.  The very fact of the long time that
has elapsed since a Democratic President filled
the office most honorable in the gift of the peo-
ple, will serve to heighten in a very great de-
gree the exultation of the people over the vic-
tory, now successfully gained. It is but justly
due to the lofty position of the President of so
great a nation, that some formal steps should be
taken to make the occasion one long to be re-
membered, one significant in all its bearings of
the true spirit of Americanism. It impresses
the masses of the people much more forcibly
than the simple fact itself. They would almost
forget that such an even had taken place were
it not for the pomp and ceremony, the elaborate
display of flags and banners and the noise of
cannons and martial music. The common peo-
ple, plain as they may seem, glory in these out-
ward symbols of greatness. Besides, this is a
day of show and parade and festivities, gay col-
ors and ostentation, when everywhere we see
flaunting in the ranks of the civil and the mili-
tary the most elaborate display in style and or-
namentation. When men and women prefer
the sunflower to the violet, and aspire to aesthet-
icism no matter how insipid and insignificant
they may make themselves, what is the civi-
lized world to expect?
	But not to diverge from the inauguration,
there can be no doubt that everything will be
managed on a most magnificent scale.  It is the
American style to spend money profusely, and
when it is for the purpose of inaugurating a
Democratic President after so many long years
of weary waiting, no pains will be spared to
make it the event of the day in which we live.
	The dedication of the stupendous Washington
monument is barely over, when close upon the
heels of destiny comes a national event of the
greatest significance, either for good or ill to
every citizen of this commonwealth.
	To be sure, much depends upon other things
connected with the office; for instance, it is a 
well authenticated fact in history that it is often
the case, the power behind the throne is greater
than the power on the throne.
	It is thought now that the members of Pres.
Cleveland's Cabinet will be Bayard, Secretary of
State; Manning, Secretary of Treasury; Lamar,
Secretary of Interior; Garland, Attorney Gener-
al; Vilas, Postmaster General, with a probability
that Whitney will be Secretary of navy, and
Endicott Secretary of War.  It is well known
that three at least of these men are pronounced
antiMormon in thier views and will be likely to
approve and justify the harshest measures
against this people.  In view of the new admin-
istration we can see nothing to be hoped for as
far as Utah is concerned, except a change of
officers with decidedly opposite views, and
sometimes a radical change is a good thing, even
if no other benefit be derived from it than get-
ting in new people who are not initiated in all
the ways and means through which the present
officials and their helps have brought about this
religious crusade.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

     ERRATA.--In the first paragraph of “Scenes
and Incidents,”in our last issue, a sentence was
omitted which rendered the remainder of the
subject almost senseless.  It was written in the
journal: “By Bro. Kimball’s request I went to
assist Shter Hyrum Smith to move up from the
river.”
	THE young ladies of Bear Lake Stake have is-
sued a small magazine entitled, “The Literary
Garland,” representing the Y. L. M. I. A. of
that Stake of Zion. Miss Libby Laker, Editor.
It is published at St. Chairles, Idaho, and bears
the motto, "Knowledge is Power.” The copy
