Vol. 13.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1885	No. 15.


A REVERIE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

The clock strikes twelve. It is the noon of night!
Another year augments the eternal pile—
Another cycle in the round of time—
	Another year the denizens of earth
	Approach still nearer to their term of life,
	Earth life—and all its sublunary joys,
	Its pomps and vanities, its loving and beloved.
Solemn is this noiseless, ceaseless, stealthy,
Yet ever sure approaching foot of time—
Oh, speck of time! Oh, little day of life!
Daily we walk, our hand in hand with death;
Stealing hearts and brains afiianced unto us—
Of parents, children, brothers, sisters, friends,
Preceding us to the eternal goal,
Leaving us stranded like an o'erwhelm'd wreck.
	But come my other self—my better self—
	And let us enter that mysterious
	Chamber—styled in mother tongue, the human heart.
This flight of time, why should it make us sad?
That which is inscrutable 'tis wise to bear;
'Tis but the programme of the stage of life,
On which each mortal has to play a part,
Chosen, or selected, as the case may be,
But any way involving destiny,
Destiny that ends in immortality!
Here in our closet, with the portal shut,
Let us, my better self, this theme pursue:

This grandest study of a human life—
We look abroad, see the earth is hidden
In its shroud of snow, all creation dead,
And also our beloved and treasured dead!
O'er whom the sad "red eye" of weeping love
Has been in our bereavement bent.

Look abroad—desolation reigns around,
The sun himself looks cold and cheerless,
The ever bubbling stream in frost locked up;
Nature beautiful nature, child of God,
Mourns as though desolate and forsaken,
As though her Father had forgotten her,
And left her in the cold embrace of death.

Hush! wait! be passive, cheer thy drooping soul;
A few brief months and Sol again will rise,
Bringing warmth and brightness and renewing life
On all that now lies dead before our eyes;
Earth will "arise and shine" to meet her Lord,
Arrayed in all her gorgeous robes of ev'ry
Hue and tint, surmounted by her floral crown,
And once again life will eject the dead.

The human plants that sleep beneath the sod
Shall they not rise beneath the smile of God?
Shall the rose and the myrtle bloom again,
All nature wake to renovated life,
And all mankind lie dead forever more?
Shall goodness perish in the dark, cold grave,
And wisdom be dissolved amid the dust,
And shall tears be shed o'er such in vain?

Behold the insect that builds itself a tomb,
And long lays shrouded in its silken cone,
Without feet, or shape, or power to move;
Look again! it has burst its silent tomb,
It is full of life, and sails through the air
Rejoicing in its renovated being.

Shall life to all creation be renewed,
And God's own image, potentates of earth,
Bearing on their brow the stamp of sovreignty,
Shall they be left forgotten in the grave?
Reason, analogy and common sense
Declare, "the fool" alone can say, "No God."

Heir of immortality, lift thine eyes.
One cometh to open the prison doors
To gather from the four winds of heaven
Ills redeemed—eternally redeemed ones.
Thousands of angels are on His right hand;
He is the friend of the good, Savior
Of all—Jesus, the Son of God.


ONE OF THE SEVEN.

	Those who read "A Reverie" in the EXPON-
ENT of Dec. 15th, will perhaps be interested in
the little circumstance related here, of one of
the number who separated after school days
were over, each one to go her own way.
	The old maid, who still resides in New Eng-
land, once came very near being a Latter-day
Saint. A group of people were gathered one
cold winter morning, in a small village, at the
brookside, evidently with a serious purpose in
view. There were ministers of the different
churches, the village school and post-master,
the leader of the choir and others, with two
Mormon missionaries, also a local Elder from
an adjoining town, who was well known in that
vicinity and to the townspeople assembled on
that occasion. The stream was frozen over,
and two workmen were busy making a place
large enough for the ordinance of baptism by
immersion, to be performed there. Meantime
the people had crowded together in little knots
to talk of the event, for Mormonism was a new
thing in those parts, and it was creating some
excitement.
	At first the conversation was very low, but
by and bye one might have heard some such
ejaculations as these: "What fools these Mor-
mons are to believe in 'Joe Smith.'"  "He was
only a money digger." "Not much of a proph-
et; I should think he's very ignorant, has no
education whatever." "Come from the back-
woods."
	One and another of the villagers gave an
opinion of Joseph Smith and the new religion,
while the Mormon Elders conversed apart very
solemnly, it appeared, and those who had come
to receive the ordinance of baptism waited
shivering and nervous with expectancy. In
the midst of it all a carriage drove up with a
span of fine horses, and there alighted
from it a middle aged lady and gentleman and
a beautiful young girl about eighteen, but
standing holding to her father's arm it was soon
observable she was lame, and the driver
reached from the carriage a pair of crutches.
The attention of all was quickly directed towards
this young lady. No one there seemed to know
who she was, as she had come from a neighbor-
ing town, and it was whispered from one to
another, if she is here to be baptised in that
frozen stream it will kill her. So after some
further consultation among the little knots of
lookers on, one of the gentlemen crossed over
<er tb="" !="" the="" othhr="" side,="" where="" carriage="" had="" i="" stopped,="" ind.="" said="" to="" tile="" cider="" lady,="" “js="" ihhvp'gp-i="" going="" into="" water="" to-day?”="" yes,="" ;="" sir!”‘vdry;="" emphatically.="" ‘“welft'js="" she="" vdfir="" dmighterj="" and'daro="" you="" allow="" her="" iiin="" such="" brisk?”-="" “shojs="" my="" daughter,="" and="" am="" not="" afraid;="" fqr="" she'="" i3="" be="" baptized="" for="" temigsiori="" of="" sins;”="" “madame,="" will="" excuse="" me,="" trust,="" but="" deliberately="" fake="" yhrir="" daughter’s:="" life="" in="" your="" hands;="" have="" warped="" you;="" hut="" d.o="" think="" this="" rell="" of'theaffair,.for="" ifa="" doubtfceriofis="" conseqlittlees="" lrill="" follow.’1="" .‘t="" aril="" lylll-ng="" leave="" h'er="" fhe="" harids="" heavenly="" rather="" arid="" he="" doetlrall="" thirigi?'="" well,”="" replied="" lady.="" -="" [="" r="" “="" 1="" by-this="" limb="" ‘opening="" thd="" stream="" was="" ready,="" audience="" assembled="" were'eager="" toee;what'="" re'ally="" transpire)="" on="" dctrisinq="" there="" another'scene="" ixiiic="" cl-="" nbte.d="" 'privately,="" which="" concerns="" ‘="" one="" of-'="" young="" ladies="" .waiting="" baptism.="" been="" talking="" friends="" that="" morning,="" ,confidcntaliy,.and="" through,="" advice="" decided="" .="" very="" morning.="" her.="" sisters="" already="" a="" member,="" little="" branch="" church="" vicinity,="" also="" an="" aunt="" cousin.="" confessed="" .again="" again="" knew="" mormonism="" wa?="" true,="" could="" scarcely="" subdue="" prido="" sufficiently="" go="" forward="" baptized,="" -knew="" when="" did="" so="" it="" wjis="" at="" sacrifice="" association="" all="" hpr-young="" companions.="" were="" two="" pqwerfuh="" infllittlees="" work="" with="" girl,="" jvas="" urging="" humble="" herself="" anil,go:into="" water?="" baptism,="" other="" alluripgjier="" follow="" fashion="" eqciety="" trio="" wofld.="" proud="" father="" .was,="" wealthy,="" noble="" hearted="" man="" his="" “my="" child,you.="" must="" act="" yourself="" iqatter,="" religion="" is="" something="" never="" troubled="" about,”="" mother="" indifferent;="" neither="" discouraged="" norencouraged="" her,="" nqither="" or="" present="" time.="" jshohesitatul="" indoubt="" wlien;she="" saw="" after-="" another="" .down="" ice="" cold="" water,="" finally.="" walked="" away,="" followed="" by="" friend="" whom="" reposed="" girlish="" confidence,="" entreated="" tell="" secret="" confided="" keeping.="" after,="" seven="" peqplediad="" elder="" officiating,="" lame="" girl="" water.="" threw="" down="" crutches="" water’s="" .edge,="" came="" forth="" from="" tliepwter="" begin="" new="" life,="" she.did="" tako="" them.,up="" again,="" needed="" them="" afterwards.="" crowd="" dispersed,="" some="" .of="" declaring,="" “it="" sham.”="" “bone="" elfect.”="" “a="" put="" up="" job,="" make="" believe="" mormons="" do="" miracles,’-="" on;="" soon="" truth="" spread="" far="" aud="" wide="" miss="" t-----had="" heeu="" healed="" lameness="" by.="" mormons,="" doctors="" had-given="" would="" walk="" rest="" life.-="" miracle,="" people="" frpm="" arid'="" near="" tojriqufre-concerning="" matter.="" .it="" manifestation="" .dfthoj.nomy="" godpn="" healing="" through="" faith,="" pud="" su.ch="" wc'shdyjld="" hear="" testimony="" sarah="" witnessed,="" this,="" her’="" heart="" grew="" hard="" determined="" sub-="" mit="" tljc="" imligfptics="" arid'slurp="" those="" re-="" ceived="" who="" pheed="" v="" gospel,="" ami="" turned="" away="" jjecahib.tliliened="" fu="" mind="" unhappy.’="" riot="" b="" want="" you.="" iqve;="" with,="" one.of="" the,mormon="" missionaries,’="" this,.wap="" h’er="" secret,="" '="" sjie="" confined="" ypqng="" friend.="" $hd="" kriew'thp.="" gospel="" ft="" up,="" fell="" nioro="" than="" courage,="" endure="" to,="" pome="" out.="" world="" alone..="" if="" sire="" si="" dmtly="" loved="" had'offered="" share="" fate,="" .said,="" henceforth="" your'="" protector="" lean="" upon="" yould="" ventured,="" abno="" not.="" br="" expressed="" her$tjf="" 'it="" oftri="" tljecase="" ftvifh="" these="" 'coinage="" tjq.stand’.alorie,="" they="" jose="" the.very="" bfessing="" tley="" desire="" mest="" obtain.="" sarpic.="" no="" doubt="" bad="" thnt="" dgy="" .obeyed="" call,="" voice="" the.="" spirjt="" 'ifntohqr,grid’="" identified="" interests="" latter-day="" sjftn="" ehe="" wopld="" eventu-="" ally-have'married="" tlip="" intensely="" lrived,="" sons="" daughters<="" div="">to the other side, where the carriage had
stopped, and said to the elder lady, "Is the
lame girl going into the water to-day?" "Yes,
sir!" very emphatically. "Well, is she your
daughter, and dare you allow her to run such
a risk?" "She is my daughter, and I am not
afraid, for she is going to be baptized for the
remission of her sins." "Madame, you will
excuse me, I trust, but you deliberately take
your daughter's life in your hands; I have
warned you, but I do not think this will be the
end of the affair, for I have no doubt serious
consequences will follow." "I am willing to
leave her in the hands of her Heavenly Father
and He doeth all things well," replied the
lady.
	By this time the opening in the stream was
ready, and the audience assembled were eager
to see what was really to transpire. But on
this occasion there was another scene being en-
acted privately, which concerns one of the

[Column 2]

young ladies waiting there for baptism. She
had been talking to one of her young friends
that morning confidentally, and through her
advice had decided to be baptized that very
morning. One of her sisters was already a
member of the little branch of the Church in
that vicinity, and also an aunt and cousin. She
had confessed again and again that she knew
Mormonism was true, but she could scarcely
subdue her pride sufficiently to go forward and
be baptized, for she knew that when she did
so it was at the sacrifice of the association
of all her young companions. There were two
powerful influences at work with this young
girl, one was urging her forward to humble
herself and go into the waters of baptism, and
the other alluring her to follow the fashion and
society of the world. She was very proud
and her father was wealthy, but he was a noble
hearted man and had said to his daughter,
"My child, you must act for yourself in this
matter, religion is something I have never
troubled about." The mother was indifferent;
she neither discouraged nor encouraged her,
and neither father or mother were present at
this time.
	She hesitated and was in doubt when she saw
one after another go down into the ice cold
water, and finally walked away, followed by
her young friend in whom she had reposed her
girlish confidence, and entreated her never to
tell the secret she had confided to her keeping.
After seven people had been baptized by the
Elder officiating, the lame girl walked into the
water. She threw down her crutches at the
water's edge, and when she came forth from
the water to begin a new life, she did not take
them up again, and she never needed them
afterwards. The crowd dispersed, some of
them declaring, "It was a sham." "Done for
effect." "A put up job, to make believe the
Mormons could do miracles," and so on; but
soon the truth spread far and wide that Miss
T--- had been healed of her lameness by the
Mormons, after the doctors had given her up
and said she would have to walk with crutches
all the rest of her life.
	It was a miracle, and people came from far
and near to inquire concerning the matter. It
was a manifestation of the power of God in
healing through faith, and of such we should
bear testimony. Sarah witnessed this, but her
heart grew hard and she determined not to sub-
mit to the indignities and slurs that those re-
ceived who obeyed the Gospel, and so she
turned away and became darkened in her mind
and very unhappy. But this is not all I want
to tell you. She was in love; and with one of
the Mormon missionaries, and this was her
secret, which she had confided to her young
friend. She knew the Gospel was true, but
she felt it was more than she had courage to
endure to come out from the world alone. If
he whom she so ardently loved had offered to
share her fate, or had said, henceforth I will
be your protector, lean upon me, she would
have ventured, but alone she could not, or so
she expressed herself to her young friend.
	It is often the case with those who have not
courage to stand alone, that they lose the very
blessing they desire most to obtain. So it was
with Sarah. There is no doubt but if she had
on that day obeyed the call, the voice of
the Spirit unto her, and identified her interests
with the Latter-day Saints she would eventu-
ally have married the man she so intensely
loved, and would have had sons and daughters


to bless her in her old age. But she chose for
herself and failed utterly. She often referred
to the circumstance during the following spring
and summer, and spoke of the young mission-
ary with the greatest reverence and tenderness.
"If I could only have had the least token from
him," she would say, "that would have decided
me; but alone I could not; no, I could not! I
know it was very wrong, but I must suffer all
my life, now!" and she would reason like this:
"If I had been baptized and he had left here
and given me no recognition of affection, I
should have been still more unhappy; for when
we met again it would have been as strangers,
and my life would have been an empty one;
my heart would never have been satisfied.
Here, where I never shall see him again,
nor hear of him, either, after the little branch
has moved west, I may outgrow this sentiment
and marry some day, perhaps, when I am tired
of myself and need some one to take care of
me."
	It was the fatal mistake of Sarah's life.
Afterwards she settled down to humdrum oc-
cupations, and only made herself useful by go-
ing among her relatives and assisting them
with nursing or household duties, when there
was extra care in the family. She became
dissatisfied with life, a very misanthrope, and
subsequently a man-hater, and to-day she is
lonely, and passes her time in knitting, assist-
ing at fairs and church festivals, and I often
wonder if she has forgotten the handsome
"Mormon Elder" with whom she was so much
in love. Perchance when she sits in a dreamy
reverie before her lonely hearth, she glances
back to the little village where she heard the
sound of the everlasting Gospel, and sees again,
as I can see it now, the group of people gath-
ered at the edge of the frozen stream, and the
magnificent figure of the young man as he of-
ficiated in that holy ordinance, and no doubt
she can hear the echo of his words so full of
pathos,
	"Sarah, come, now, I am ready to baptize
you," but she turned away and left him stand-
ing in the water waiting for her, when her
heart said yes!—And this is why one of the
seven became an old maid.
	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued

	"Until after I had spoken I knew not what
they intended to do with me, whether to kill
me, or to whip me, or what else, I knew not. I
bore my abuse with so much resignation and
meekness, that it appeared to astound the mul-
titude, who permitted me to retire in silence;
many looking very solemn, their sympathies
having been touched, as I thought. And as to
myself, I was so filled with the Spirit and love
of God that I had no hatred toward my perse-
cutors, or any one else."
	After father had been tarred and feathered,
a man raised a whip to finish up by thrashing
him, when another, more humane, laid hold of
his arm saying he had done enough.
	"Charles Allen was next stripped and tarred
and feathered, because he would not agree to
leave the country or deny the Book of Mor-
mon. Others were brought up to be served in
the same way, or whipped, but for some cause
the mob ceased operations and adjourned until
Tuesday, 23rd; Elder Gilbert, the keeper of the
store, sgreed to close that, and that may have
been the reason why the work of destruction
was suddenly stopped for two days. In the
course of this day's wicked, outrageous and un-
lawful proceedings many solemn realities of
human degradation, as well as thrilling inci-
dents, were presented to the Saints, An armed

[Column 2]

and well organized mob in a government pro-
fessing to be governed by law, with the Lieu-
tenant Governor (Lilburn W. Boggs), the
second officer in the State, calmly looking on
and secretly aiding every movement, saying to
the Saints, "You now know what our Jackson
boys can do, and you must leave the country,
etc." And when Bishop Partridge, who was
without guile, and Elder Charles Allen walked
off amid the horrid yells of an infuriated mob,
coated like some unnamed, anknown biped;and
one of the sisters cried aloud, "While you,who
have done this wicked deed, must suffer the
vengeance of God, they, having endured per-
secution, can rejoice, for henceforth for them is
laid up a crown eternal in the heavens." Sure-
ly there was a time of awful reflection, that
man, unrestrained like the brute beast, may
torment the body; but God in return will pun-
ish the soul."
	The history continues, "After the mob had
ceased yelling and retired, and while evening
was spreading her dark mantle over the un-
blushing scenery, as if to hide it from the gaze
of day, men, women and children, who had
been driven or frightened from their homes by
the yells and threats of the mob, began to re-
turn from their hiding places in thickets and
cornfields, woods and groves, and view with
heavy hearts the scene of desolation and woe.
And while they mourned over fallen man, they
rejoiced with joy unspeakabe that they were ac-
counted worthy to suffer in the glorious cause
of their Divine Maker."
	"There lay the printing office a heap of ruins,
Elder Phelps' furniture strewed over the
ground as common plunder, the revelations,
book works, papers and press in the hands of
the mob as the booty of highwaay robbers.
There was Bishop Partridge in the midst of his
family, with a few of his friends, endeavoring
to scrape off the tar, which, from the way it ate
his flesh, seemed to have been prepared with
lime, pearlash, acid, or some flesh-eating com-
modity to destroy him. And there was Charles
Allen in the same awful condition."
	As the heart sickens at the recital,how much
more at the picture! More than once these
people in this boasted land of liberty were
brought into jeopardy, or threatened with ex-
pulsion or death because they wished to wor-
ship God according to the revelations of heav-
en, the Constitution of their country and the
dictates of their own conscience. O Liberty!
how thou art fallen! Alas! Clergymen, where
is thy charity? In the smoke that ascendeth
forever and ever.
	Early in the morning of the 23rd of July
the mob again assembled, armed with weapons
of war, and bearing a red flag, whereupon the
Elders, led by the Spirit of God, and in order
to save lives and stop the effusion of blood, en-
tered into a treaty with the mobbers to leave
the county in a certain time, etc. The execu-
tion of this treaty prevented an opportunity
for the brethren in Zion to confer with the
Presidency in Kirtland concerning their inten-
tion, which they improved by despatching El-
der O. Cowdery a special messenger after a de-
lay of three days. After word had been re-
ceived from Kirtland the brethren began to
write letters and petition the Governor of Mis-
souri to look into their grievances and vindicate
their cause.
	Communication between Zion and Kirtland
was uncertain, as the mob intercepted the let-
ters sent back and forth. Lawyers Wood,
Rose, Doniphan and Atchison were secured by
the brethren giving their note of one thousand
dollars. This so enraged the mob that no soon-
er had the news spread among them than they
began to congregate and prepare for battle.
Father and some other of the brethren offered
themselves a ransom for the Church, willing to
be scourged or die if that would appease their
anger toward the Church. But the mob

[Column 3]

assured them that every man, woman and
child would be whipped and scourged in some
way until the Mormons were driven from the
county, or die if they remained.
	"Tuesday night, the 31st of October, gave
the Saints in Zion abundant proof that no
pledge, written or verbal, was longer to be re-
garded; for on that night between forty and fif-
ty, many of whom were armed with guns, pro-
ceeded against a branch of the Church west of
Big Blue, and unroofed and partly demolished
ten dwelling houses; and in the midst of shrieks
and screams of women and children, whipped
and beat in a savage and brutal manner sever-
al of the men; and with their horrid threats
frightened women and children into the wilder-
ness. Such of the men as could escape fled for
their lives, for very few of them had arms, nei-
ther were they embodied, and they were threat-
ened with death if they made any resistance.
Such, therefore, that could not escape by flight
received a pelting by rocks and a beating with
guns and sticks, etc."
	'On Friday, the 1st of Nov., women and
children rallied forth from their gloomy retreat
to contemplate with heart-rending anguish the
ravages of a ruthless mob in the mangled bodies
of their husbands, and in the destruction of
some of their houses and furniture, Houseless
and unprotected by the arm of the civil law in
Jackson Co., with the dreary month of No-
vember staring them in the face, and loudly
proclaiming an inclement season at hand. The
continued threats of the mob that they would
drive out every Mormon from the county, and
the inability of many to remove because of
their poverty, caused an anguish of heart indes-
cribable."


GOOD TIME AT TOQUERVILLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Thinking a few lines from Toquerville would
not come amiss, we take pleasues in writing.
Our Relief Society is trying to keep along
with the rest of the societies as near as possible,
with a good spirit and feeling at least.  We
hold our testimonial and teacher's meetings
monthly, and our working meetings every two
weeks. We have very good meetings.
     On the 10th of Nov. we, with the Young
Ladies' Association, and our brethren, spent a
very agreeable evening in honor of Sister
Elizabeth Klienman, previous to her departure
for Arizona, she having been our First Coun-
selor in the Relief Society.  She is a faithful,
noble-minded sister, and is much beloved by
all associated with her.  She was one of the
early pioneers into Salt Lake Valley
     We met at the hall at 7 p.m.  We had sing-
ing, and then prayer by Bro. Geo. Spilsbury,
after which we had songs, recitations, dancing,
singing by the ward choir, led by Bro. John
Batty, and also by the Sunday School choir,
led by our Bishop, William A. Bringhurst, also
speeches, and we must not forget to mention
that Bro. Samuel Richards spent part of the
evening with us and made an excellent speech.
We had a bounteous supply of refreshments.
Toward the close Sister Klienman addressed us,
wishing us prosperity, and thanking us for the
love and respect that was shown her.  It was
an evening long to be remembered.  We re-
main, your sisters in the true and everlasting
covenant,
SELINDA D. BRINGHURST, Prest R.S.,
ELIZABETH W. LAMB, Sec.,
MARY LAMB, Ass't Sec.


"Miss E.B. Johnson of Washington has in the
Dec. number of the Magazine of Americam
History the first of a series of illustrated pa-
pers entitled "Historical Portraits," the first
being devoted to the Huntington Collection of
Americans."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A NEW YEAR’S REVERIE AND
			DREAM.

I sat by my hearth; in the coals’ glowing red
Strange pictures arose like a spell;
Now in beauty they glowed, now in vapors they fled,
	Figures strange, that no language could tell;
The room was close curtained, the fire shone bright,
	Tick, tick, flew the moments away—
I turned in my chair from the lamp’s mellow light.
	And sat watching the shadows at play.

Long I sat there half dozing and yet half awake—
	One, two, rang the solemn old clock,
And the voice of the wind seemed the moan of a lake
	When the storm throws its waves on the rock.
Then the shadows that played on the wall turned to
		trees,
	The moon through the curtain shone in,
And the sweet song of birds floated faint on the breeze,
	Like the breath of a vesper hymn.

Then like a forest tall masts rose to view,
	Flags flattered, of many far lands,
And the soft splashing waves brought bright treasures
		to strew
	At my feet, on the white shining sands—
And I watched once again, as in days that are past,
	The sunset illumine with gold
The sky overhead, and the waves rolling past
	Over gems, over depths dark and cold.

But a hand held my own, that was true, that was
		warm,
	And no omen of trouble was there,
As I looked in her face, like a saints’, while her form
	Seemed clothed in the radiant air.
'Twas a vision of truth, that the years have fulfilled.
	For I stand on eternity’s beach;
I could hear, I could sec, if the tumult were stilled,
	The voice and the hand that doth reach.
*		*		*		*		*		*
Then I rode through the odorous avenues where
	The rose and the orange tree twined;
O! all life was abloom!  for another was there,
	And his love and his smile they were mine,
And he leaned, as we rode 'neath the wide spreading
		tree,
	And gathered the bloom laden sprays
To wreathe into garlands.  O memory! these
	Were brightest of far away days.
*		*		*		*		*		*
Did the embers fall down! Did the wind Bhake the
		sash?
	For I started, as one from a dream;
And the vision was changed, and leaped like a flash
	The future, ’neath prophecy’s beam.
Lo, the old years had gone, and the new in their place
	Brought a bliss that the past never knew—
For the Mourner and Comforter met face to face
	And the promise lie gave them was true.

And I learned, as I gazed on the mystical throng,
	Of the truths in our earth lives concealed,
That we pass, seeing not; and I heard the sweet song
	To the soul of the faithful revealed.
Pass onward ye years—ye are bearing us there—
	To a blest immortality’s height;
To wake, weeping, no more, in our lonely despair,
	From the dreams of an earth-weary night.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
December 26, 1884.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	On Monday 31st, Horace wrote: “To-night,
about ten o’clock, we were routed from our
beds by the cry of, “All hands repair to the
center of the camp;” which was done, when the
men were sent back after their guns, etc., and
then Brother Kimball proceeded to tell them
the object of their coming together.  It appears
that a rumor that troops were on their way
there to arrest the Twelve had come to camp—
that they had crossed the river somewhere
down in the settlements, and were on their way
here, therefore it was thought necessary for
every man to be properly armed and equipped,
and that a guard should be kept up nights to
keep all spies from going to and from the
camp.  These things being attended to, and
every man told to arm himself to obey the
orders of the foreman of the division to which
he belonged, the meeting was dismissed."
     They had received this news through the
medium of Mr. Sarpee, who was living in the
village.
	“Tuesday, 22nd.  This morning, at ten
o’clock, the men in the camp were all requested
to meet at the Springs in the valley below our
camp.  President Young then addressed them
and told them the object of our coming to-
gether, which was to organize ourselves into
companies for self-defense.  A vote was taken,
whether we should retain the old officers of the
Nauvoo Legion as captains of companies, etc.,
or choose new ones.  The vote was unanimous
in favor of the former proposition. Brother
Kimball’s boys and myself attached ourselves
to the company of artillery under Captain
Jacobs.  A vote was finally taken whether we
should remove immediately to our winter quar-
ters, as affording us a better place for conveni-
ency and self-defense. It was decided in the
affirmative, and that we commence to remove
to-morrow—one division at a time, the breth-
ren assisting each other in so doing.  The com-
panies were dismissed into the hands of their
respective officers, with the caution to be on
the alert, and ready at a moment’s warning to
be called out by night and by day as occasion
may require.  The captains dismissed their com-
panies with the same admonition.”
	“Wednesday, 23rd.  Being misty to-day,
rather inauspicious for our removal: A num-
ber of the brethren with teams came to our
assistance, and we arrived at our winter
quarters about 1 o’clock p.m., which is three
miles from Cutler’s Park.  We are located on
the second shelf of the river bottoms, which is
laid out in the form of a city, five acres in each
block, consisting of twenty lots.  The city, as
laid out, occupies, or takes in, from 6 to 800
acres of ground.	*	*	*	*	* 
This evening Squire Wells and Wm. Cutler
arrived from Nauvoo.  They have been six
days coming from that place.  They came in
a buggy.  One object of their coming is to get
teams to send back for the poor brethren, who
are not able to come without assistance.”
	They brought considerable news, and next
morning came to our tent and remained for an
hour or more, telling the particulars of the
late battle between 100 of our brethren and
1000 of the mob who came to attack the city,
and were kept at bay by the little force, who
compelled them to retreat, with considerable
loss, as supposed, although the mob wonld not
acknowledge the loss of a man.  There were
three killed on the brethren’s side and three
wounded.  The action lasted an hour and
twenty minutes, and took place between Win-
chester street and Spuire Wells’ house—in the
neighborhood, where my father had built his
first house.  The place was then called Com-
merce.  The mob had six cannons, besides their
small arms; the brethren five cannons.  Presi-
dent Young, my father and a number of the
Twelve, and some others were present at our
tent to hear him relate the affair, after which
Dr. Richards read the articles of the capitula-
tion of the City of Nauvoo, which took place
on the 17th inst.
	The next day Horace wrote: “Council held
to-day near Brother Taylor’s tent. Squire
Wells related to the people the circumstances
that lately transpired at Nauvoo, and said that
there were a great many brethren in very indi-
gent circumstances, who would not be able to
come away without assistance.  Consequently
the council determined to raise teams and send
back for them—it was thought advisable, first,
to get all the teams they could of those who
had built houses on the other side of the river,
at Mount Pisgah and Garden Grove, because
they being, in a great measure, prepared for
the winter, could better spare their teams than
we who have not yet built a single house, ex-
cept the one that Brother Kimball brought
down from Cutler’s Park.”
	Squire Wells and Wm. Cutler started on the
28th.  On the first of October Horace men-
tions going with several of the boys haying,
and the same evening he played the violin at
a party held at his father’s tent, on the aniver-
sary of his little sister Maria’s birthday.
	On the 3rd he says: “Brother Lathrop and
another brother arrived here from Miller’s
camp; they had been stripped of nearly all
they possessed, and moved away from Bishop
Miller's, some distance, when they had con-
cluded to come down here, supposing it to be
only thirty miles—they traveled six days, and
arrived here at last, having nothing to eat dur-
ing that time,except a wild goose, a rabbit and a
turtle that they killed on their route.” He
speaks also of the band meeting that evening,
or part of them, and says, “I joined them and
played with them.  I am to play the instru-
ment (flute) formerly used by Andrew Cahoon,
who expects to start shortly for England;”
also of experiencing a very severe frost that
night, for the first time that season.  We had
had considerable rainy, windy and disagreeable
weather.  A few days after our removal the
wind was so severe that our tent and a nnmber
of others were blown to the ground.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Go into a printing office, and find whether
the women who set type are paid as much as
the men. The work is paid by the piece, so
much for setting up so many thousand ems of
type; and each type-setter has to correct his or
her mistakes gratis. Thus if one type-setter
can set faster and more accurately than
another, he will earn more, provided he and
the other type-setter are of the same sex. But
the man and the woman are not paid at the
same rate by the piece. He gets say 35 cents
per thousand ems, and she 25 cents per
thousand. She may be an experienced setter,
and he a boy just learning; she may have her-
self and a half a dozen young sisters to sup-
port, and he may be living at home with his
parents, and supporting nobody; but he is paid
at a higher rate by virtue of his sex. He
would feel wronged if it were otherwise.—Ex.
	In the last New Zealand Constitution provis-
ion is made for the appointment, as Cabinet
Ministers, of two Maoris, if the Prime Minis-
ter thinks fit to make use of their services, al-
lotting to each a salary of $2,000. The Legis-
lative Council, the upper Chamber of the Colo-
ny, whose members are appointed by the Crown
for life, must have two Maori members in its
total of forty-five. The law prescribes that of
the ninety-five who make up the House of Re-
presentatives four must be representatives of
Maori constituencies. These need not be
Maoris, and there have been instances of a
Maori constituency returning white representa-
tives, but almost invariably the Marois sent up
representatives of their own race. The Maoris
residing in other than purely native districts
enjoy the right to vote in common with the
white population, the qualification for them be-
ing a $125 freehold, held individually under
Crown title or enrollment on the ratepayer roll.
The number of Maoris on the register on one
or the other of these qualifications amounts to
about a thousand. In the native constituen-
cies no registration is needed—the right of
voting is accorded to every adult of the native
race residing in the district.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT Ofiice, Room No. 4, up stairs; Hooper and
Eldredge Block, Main Street, a few doors south of
Z. C. M. I. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.
every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, 1885


[Column 1]

WELCOME 1885!

	A Happy New Year to all our readers, patrons
and friends! The beginning of a year is always
fraught with sentimental feelings. We have
just bid farewell to the old year, and there is a
sort of sadness in the very fancy of parting, but
the new year brings anticipation and sublime
resolves, and the influence of the desire to do
better, to aim higher, to live nearer to God,
buoys one up and makes glad the dawn of the
the new year. The division of time is most
wisely arranged, and the effect upon the human
soul is inspirational. There is a time for all
things, said the preacher, and if men were wise
and judicious in the matter of time no doubt
there would be. It is mortals who fall so far
short, and not the great Dispenser of times and
seasons and the over-ruler of all things.
	It may seem to some of this people that the
new year has dawned darkly for the Saints, but
the old syaing, "It is always darkest just before
the dawn," will prove true in this instance, as it
has in hundreds of others in which the Latter-
day Saints were concerned; the clouds that now
obscure the horizon and darken the homes of
faithful followers of Jesus, will roll by, and the
sunshine of prosperity will lighten their pathway,
for God reigns, and He will be acknowledged in
the earth in the deliverance of His people from
bondage. Have the Saints any reason to
fear those who are keeping the commandments
given them to observe? No; but they have
every reason to believe there will be a blessing
in the bitter cup now poured out for them to
drink. And it may be that those who are so
anxious to bring trouble and sorrow upon an in-
offensive people, will drain the dregs of the bit-
ter potion which the Saints will only taste.
	It is well to remember in all trials,
		"That the sun shines out the brighter
		When the stormy tempest clears."
But however dark the hours may seem, this is
a time for great joy in the hearts of common hu-
manity, for there are many things all have to be
thankful for. When earthquakes and cyclones,
famine and war and dire distress in different
parts of the earth are so frequent, those who
are living in a land where peace, prosperity,
plenty and health abound, have certainly abun-
dant cause for rejoicing and being thankful for
those munificent gifts bestowed by a divine
Providence.
	"There is a bright future in store for the Saint
however much they may have to pass through
in the meantime, for the kingdom which Daniel
saw is commenced in the earth and all nations,
will yet see and acknowledge that the little
stonecut cut of the mountains will become a
mighty power in the midst of the earth. No
thinking person can look upon Utah to-day with
the natural resources it possesses, and the indus-

[Column 2]

try and thrift so creditably represented in these
valleys, without realizing, to some extent, that
in the near future there will be such growth
and development among the people in trade,
manufactures, art, science and literature, and in
everything that will make a country wealthy
and powerful, that Utah, through her sons and
daughters,will gain a name and place that must
be recognized even by her enemies. The youth
of Zion have the ability to accomplish great
things. They have the physical organization
which denotes strength, courage, firmness and
force; with these characteristics combined with
strength of intellect, and the mind and the
heart properly cultivated, and every faculty
carefully adjusted, by means of wise and ju-
dicious training, what may not be expected in
the next few years. Greece was not prouder of
her sons than "Mormon" parents are to day of 
their sons and daughters born in these mountain
vales and fast[---]. They have inhaled the
breath of freedom from their birth, and their
fathers and mothers have felt that.
		"The greatest glory of a free born people
		Is to transmit that freedom to their children."
	There are a class of people who have come
here on purpose to take from the original settlers
and rightful possessors, their dear bought rights,
to rob them of every semblance of freedom and
and after having sought to deprive the parents
of every vestige of liberty, prate of freedom to
their children, telling them to shake off the
shackles that bind them. In the words of the
glorious Milton,
		"They bawl for freedom in their senseless moods,
		And still revolt when truth would set them free,
		License they mean, when they cry liberty."
	Such are the men who call out so loudly from
the pulpit and the platform to the young "Mor-
mons," to declare themselves and break away
from the superstitions of their fathers; but they
cry in vain, for though they may influence here
and there one to renounce the faith for which
their parents have endured so much, the major-
ity will remain faithful and will attain to great-
ness, and eventually become a mighty nation,
and all eyes will be turned to Zion, for her fame
will have reached to the ends of the earth.
Therefore, especially for the youth of this peo-
ple, should every year dawn with bright hopes
and high resolves to make a record that shall be
worthy the noble ambition of men and women
who are striving for the highest prize that is in
store, and for a name that is imperishable and
an inheritance that is undefiled. They who
would possess these inestimable blessings have
no time to listen to these boasters of freedom;
let them howl, "Let the heathen rage and the
people imagine a vain thing," those who fear
God and keep His commandments have every-
thing to hope for and nothing to fear.


HOME AFFAIRS

	The Office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT has been
removed to the Hooper and Eldredge Block, Main
Street, just a few doors south of Z. C. M. I., up
stairs, in room No. 4.
	The merchants, coal-dealers and men in busi-
ness have been liberal to the poor during the
holiday time, and much has been distributed by
the Bishops and the Relief Society through the
city. The weather has been favorable for those
who have been short of fuel, and it is ardently
to be hoped that no one has suffered.  There is
certainly no need of any real suffering while the
granaries and barns are filled with grain, and
the cattle abound "upon a thousand hills."
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held as per appointment in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, on Friday, the
26th of Dec., Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.


The meeting was well attended considering the
season of the year and the inclemency of the
weather. Reports were heard from nearly all
the branches of the Relief Society, and much
valuable instruction was given, and many noble
sentiments expressed. The Primary Associa-
tions held their conference the next morning,
Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding, which was
well attended, and in the afternoon the Y. L.
M. I. A. held theirs, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze pre-
siding. Brief minutes of each of these meetings
will appear in our next issue.
	Primary meeting, held in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms, Nov. 13th, 1884. Mrs. Lydia
Ann Wells presiding. Bishop M. Atwood and
Counselors present, also Prest. Ellen C. Clawson,
Prest. Rachel R. Grant and Sister R. C. Atwood.
After the usual opening exercises the minutes
were read and accepted; then Pres. Wells excused
herself from giving the address she was appoint-
ed to give on account of the length of the pro-
gramme, and wishing to hear remarks from the
visitors. The programme was carried out as fol-
lows: Bernies Johnson, Recitation; Lillie Burt,
Song; Lottie D. Goforth, Recitation; May B.
Bythe, Select Reading; Lide Stromburg, Song;
Meta Peterson and Maude Andersen, Dialogue;
Annie Stromburg, Organ Solo; Malcolm Batler,
Select Reading; Bible Questions asked, and
answered by the children.
	Sister Clawson gave some excellent advice, also
Sister Atwood made some remarks calculated
to encourage, and was followed by the Bishop,
who spoke upon the order of organizing Primary
Associations, and gave fatherly advice. His re-
marks were excellent.
	Counselor N. M. Empy made some good re-
marks, after which the resignation of Miss Mary
Ann Hanks was presented and accepted, and a
vote of thanks tendered her for her faithful and
diligent labors in the Association for several
years past.
	The organization not having been entirely
complete since the resignation of Miss Georgie
Spencer, last spring, Mrs. Susan Stringam was
appointed as First Counselor to the President,
Miss Kate Wells as Second Counselor and Miss
Annie Thomas as as Assistant Counselor. These
sisters were elected by unamimous vote. Miss
Matilda Mortenson was appointed to the office
of Secretary and Miss Nellie Goddard as Assist-
ant Secretary. These nominations were also
sustained by vote. The officers were then set
apart by the Bishop and his Counselors, after
which the programme was read for the next
meeting. Singing, "Love at Home." Benedic-
tion by Counselor Francis Platte.


REVIEW OF BOOKS.

	We have received from the Juvenile Instruc-
tor office the pamphlet, "The Tennessee Mas-
sacre and its Causes, or the Utah conspiracy."
A lecture by Elder John Nicholson, delivered in
the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday, September
22nd, 1884, and stenographically reported by John
Irvine. For Sale at Juvenile Instructor Office,
price, 10 cts. It contains a complete narrative
of the tragedy, and of the attitude of our ene-
mies, the political ring in Utah, with extracts
from the Salt Lake Tribune, and some criminal
statistics, showing who are the law-breakers
here. Taken altogether the lecture is a very
able setting forth of things that have transpired
here recently, all of which, through the press
and the representations of men in office and the
anti-polygamy party generally, including
priests and parsons, have had their bearing upon
the people outside, and those that are unacquaint-
ed with their real life no doubt, by means of
these malicious statements, imagine the Mor-
mons to be something very dreadful; too wicked
to live on the earth.


Another pamphlet of 80 pages, published and
for sale at the Juvenile Instructor Office for 10
cts. per copy, is an adddress delivered in
the Twelfth Ward Assembly Hall, Salt Lake
City, October 16th, 1884, by Elder Charles W.
Penrose. It is entitled, "The Mountain Mea-
dows Massacre." The subject is fully discussed,
and important documents, some of them official
ones, bearing upon the matter, are published
and properly authenticated. It is a book that
ought to have a wide circulation, for the sub-
ject has been handled in the most clumsy man-
ner by many—and the blame of the whole
transaction attributed to the leaders of the
"Mormon" Church. The speaker has shown
plainly that there is nothing to substantiate
such a statement at all, and that Brigham
Young and his associates in office were complete-
ly vindicated by the testimony of John D Lee,
and the statements of reliable men, both Gen-
tiles as well as Mormons. Every body should
read the book for themselves, and scatter copies
of it abroad wherever they may have an oppor-
tunity.
	"Picture Album and Story Book," is a new
book for the children, issued from the Juvenile
Instructor Office. It contains thirty pictures,
very interesting ones, with the description on
the opposite page. It is a new idea, and a very
pretty one, and will certainly be a pleasure to
the little folks, who are always delighted with
pictures. Price, 25 cts.
	The magazine, "Life and Home," has taken
a new title. It is very well adapted for home
reading, and is a useful addition to our home
literature.
	The Academic Review, published in Provo by
the Polysophical Society of the Brigham Young
Academy contains much useful informa-
tion. It is a neat little pamphlet published
eight times during the academic year. It is
quite a pleasing enterprise, and very creditable
to the young people.
	We have received "Choice Literature," a
monthly magazine, published in New York. It
contains an assortment of reading matter in the
form of essays, sketches, biographies, descrip-
tive articles, etc., and seems to be very ably
edited.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

"A HAPPY NEW YEAR."

	To be happy let us make new resolves, and as
the old year is going out and the new one com-
ing in, let us do better in the future than we
have in the past. Forsake all evil and every-
thing that has a tendency to lead us from our
Heavenly Father. If we have not been true to
our covenants, to our neighbors, or to ourselves,
let us make retribution as far as lies in our pow-
er; let us become a delightsome people in the
eyes of the Lord, that He will pour out His
blessing upon us, and make Zion the joy of the
whole earth; that her people may be a holy peo-
ple, for Zion is the pure in heart; that upon all
her assemblies and dwelling places shall be
written, "Holiness to the Lord." And that a
pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night
shall be our protecting shield. "And it shall no
more be said, the Lord liveth that brought up
the Children of Israel out of the land of Egypt,
but the Lord liveth that brought up His people
from all parts whither He had scattered
them."
	The children of Ephraim had a mark set upon
them—they were to be known by their gray
hair and bald heads; his seed was mixed among
the Gentiles, and they were to be taken one of a
city and two of a family. Those are they of the
promised seed which the Gospel came to first;
they received the divine message, and are build-

[Column 2]

ing cities, towns, villages, houses and temples,
preparatory to the coming of our Savior.
	This is the work God has called the Latter-day
Saints to perform. And now, if the President
of the United States, governors, magistrates,
people, or individuals, will assist in this great
work they shall have their reward; for so said
our Savior: "If they give a disciple a drink of
cold water in my name, they shall have their re-
ward."
	The true and living God is a merciful being,
but He does all things in His own way. He
warns the inhabitants of the earth of coming
judgments, and has since the creation.
		God moves in a mysterious way
			His wonders to perform;
		He plants His footsteps in the sea,
			And rides upon the storm.
	But the way He has sent forth His proclama-
tions, and the obsecure individuals He has
chosen, mankind in general have become offend-
ed at, and have rejected his offers of mercy and
salvation, and by so doing they have been lost.
In the days of Noah they were swept away by
the flood, and as i[-] was the[--], so it shall be again;
The people on the earth now will not give heed
to His message: "Come out of her, my people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins and receive
not of her plagues." The world at large is with-
out faith in God, as the only way to obtain it is
through revelation, and this they deny. How
could He warn His children without He sent
His messengers to them? And if they have no
confidence in a communication from Him, how
can they be moved by His word?
	Now, if the people of Nineveh had not be-
lieved in revelation they would all have been
destroyed; but they believed that Jonah had
spoken the word of the Lord to them, and in
consequence of this they repented and put on
sackcloth and sat in ashes, even the king. "The
Savior reproved the Jews for their unbelief and
held up the people of Nineveh as an example
and said to them, they repented at the preaching
of Jonah and a greater one than he was in their
midst." Their unbelief caused their overthrow,
"For therein is the righteousness of God revealed
from faith to faith; as it is written, the just shall
live by faith." Romans, 1st chapter 17th verse
Daniel would have been destroyed had he not
believed in revelation. Hear what he said to
the king: "But there is a God in heaven that
revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the
king, Nebuchadnezzar, what shall be in the lat-
ter days." Daniel, 2nd chapter, 28th verse.
After going on with the interpretation he says,
44th verse, "And in the days of these kings
shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which
shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom
shall not be left to other people, but it shall
break in pieces and consume all other kingdoms,
and it shall stand for ever." This is definite
language given by revelation, "And the dream
is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure."
Clause 45th verse.
	All these things concern everyone, and as
each year advances the end draweth nigh. Oh,
well, those who administer the law need not
concern themselves. Yea, the call is to you,
"Come unto me all ye ends of the earth, and be
ye saved." Some say, if you believe in revela-
tion you add to John's book of revelation; we do
not add to his words, but we believe his words
will be fulfilled to the very letter, but if we did
not believe in revelation we would detract from
it, and our names be taken from the Book of
Life. "Blessed are they that do His command-
ments, that they may have right to the tree of
life, and may enter in through the gates into the
city." 22nd chapter, 14th verse. We will give
His own words to His disciples; "Go ye into all
the world, and preach the Gospel to every crea-
ture. He that believeth and is baptized shall

[Column 3]

be saved, but he that believeth not shall be
damned." "And these signs shall follow those
that believe," etc.
	Who has a right to change these command-
ments and make them read different, or say
these signs are no longer needed? We cannot
change the word of God without bringing con-
demnation upon us. Therefore the whole world
lieth in unbelief, and all are called upon to ac-
cept the truth as it is revealed in these last-
days. The kings and queens of the earth should
come up to Zion and bring their pleasant things
to beautify the sanctuary of the Lord of Hosts,
to make the place of His feet glorious.
	M. A. P.
Salt Lake City, Dec. 30, 1884.


A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dr. Ellia R. Ship was the recipient of a very
pleasant surprise party, on the occasion of the
expiration of the first term of her class in ob-
stetric, Saturday Dec. 20th. The lady expressed
herself as being completely surprised for once
in her life.
	The party was managed by the members of
the class. The time passed quickly and pleasant-
ly in social chat, songs, recitations, select read-
ing, essays, etc.
	During the evening a handsome album was
presented to Dr. Shipp, by one of the members,
in behalf of the class, to which she responded in
a few well chosen words of thanks. All then
adjourned to the dining room and partook of a
goodly array of vianda, spread upon the table
by those taking charge of that part of the pro-
gramme. The exercises closed by the reading
of the contents of a budget box, filled with origin-
al pieces, humorous, serious, and all ex-
pressive of the esteem in which the teacher is
held by the students.
	At twelve o'clock the party broke up, all ex-
pressing themselves satisfied with the success of
the undertaking, and each wishing the other a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
	CACIUS.


OUR COUNTRY'S WRONGS.

My country, O my country!
	My heart it bleeds far thee;
Thy patriots have departed,
	Thy down-fall now we see.

	Fair Columbia! Heaven born boon of free-
dom, where hast thou fled? To the land of
spirits to look down and weep over your country's
wrongs? Look within the prison walls of Salt
Lake City and behold one that was born a legal
heir to the Constitution which guarantees to
every man the sacred right to worship God ac-
cording to the dictates of his own conscience.
Bid not Rudgar Clawson stand up nobly before
the court and claim marriage to a second wife
a religious right, by quoting that clause in the
Constitution, "Congress shall pass no law pro-
hibiting any man from the free exercise of re-
ligion?"
	In the name of truth and reason who has
violated this law, Rudgar Clawson, or Congress
that has passed laws prohibiting free born
American Citizens from the free exercise of re-
ligion?
	The Constitution of the United States was
given by inspiration, preparatory to the coming
forth of the Kingdom of God. Methinks I see
the veteran fathers, who shed their blood to be-
queathe to us that sacred, heaven-born boon,
liberty, taking notes of the proceedings of the
courts that have sentenced God's servants to
prison without an appeal; but there is an appeal


higher than the Supreme Court of the United
States, where angels and patriots will set on the
jury, God Himself being the Supreme Judge.
He is the God of the ancient apostles, Paul and
Silas, that could break down their prison walls.
He is the God of Esther, the queen, who, when
all her tribe was to be slain, called a fast of a
three day's fasting and prayer, although it was
death, by the law, to appear in the Inner court
of the kingdom without permission, she said, at
the close of the fast, "If I die I die," and went
and stood in the inner court of the king; and
God moved upon the heart of the king to say
these words, 'What is thy request Queen Esther?
If it be half of the kingdom it shall be granted
thee." Her request was to save her people and
hang Haman instead of Mordecai.
	Now, let all the daughters of Zion do likewise:
remember those brethren who are in prison, and
their families; proclaim their innoconce, and
call upon angels to bear record on earth and in
heaven of their unjust imprisonment and the
suffering of their sorrowing, injured families; it
is worse than death. The cries of those inno-
cent women and children will ascend up to God
against those who have violated the Constitution
and brought this sorrow and despair upon the
innccont.	WILLMIRTH EAST.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	The Seventeenth Annual Washington Con-
vention of the National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation will be held in Lincoln Hall, Washington,
D. C, January 20, 21 and 22, 1885. Public ses-
sions will be held at 2 and 7:30 p.m. on each of
these days; and executive sessions, open only to
officers and members of the Association, will be
held daily at 10:30 a.m. The afternoon meetings
will be devoted to State and Committee Reports,
to Letters and Discussions. The evening sessions
will be occupied with formal addresses.	*	*
	The principal object of this Association from
its organization has been to secure to the women
of the several States and Territories nations
protection in the citizen's right to vote, through
a sixteenth Amendment to the National Con-
stitution.	*	*	*	*
	Besides the Washington Convention, it is pro-
posed to hold a meeting in New Orleans, Janu-
ary 6 and 7. This is the first time that the Na-
tional Society has convened in a Gulf City; the
meeting will therefore be peculiarly important,
and while we hope for the co-operation of women
in that section, we must depend upon the gener-
ous contribution of members of the Association
for the pecuniary means necessary to the suc-
cessful execution of the plan. All members
and friends are therefore requested to send to
our Treasurer contributions for this purpose at
the earliest date possible, that the officers may
know the amount they are warranted in expend-
ing upon the New Orleans meeting. Some of
the most noted speakers will address the Con-
vention.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice Prest. at Large,
	MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, Chairman Ex. Com.
	N. B—Dues and contributions should be sent
at once to the Treasurer, Mrs. Jane H. Spofford.
Letters to be read at the Convention, and re-
ports of officers who cannot be present, must be
sent as early as January 15th to Miss Susan B.
Anthony, at the same address. Riggs House,
Washington, D. C.


[Column 1]

COLLEGE EVILS.

	"Yes, colleges are good things, and there is
much common sense about them, as there should
be. Young men, when they go to college, take

[Column 2]

a little common sense with them and they leave
it there; they leave it there."
	Such was the remark of a crusty, but very
level-headed old gentleman, after listening to a
glowing account of what colleges in the United
States were doing for its young men. The word
colleges is here used in a sense that embraces
all educational institutions above local acade-
mies. The presumption would probably hold
if colleges, the world over, were embraced
largely as being subject to the witty and scath-
ing remark of the crusty old gent above alluded
to. There is no doubt that many brilliant men
speak—by eventful and useful careers after
they have entered fairly wild the active battle
of life—volumes in behalf of what a college
education will do for a young man if he has
but the will and the judgment to seize the
good such a course offers him, and the deter-
mination to resist the temptations so closely as-
sociated with the good, that it often requires
the best balanced head to decide where the one
terminates and the other begins; for one
thoroughly educated man a college turns out,
averaging them all through, there are a dozen
numbskulls ground through, and full as many
young men unsettled and uufitted for life by
lack of discipline, and by the acquisition of vices
which, not only corrupt and waste them bodily,
but which totally undermine that true and
abiding love for moral instincts, without which
it is absolutely impossible to lead a correct
life.
	In addition to these, though bad enough,
though less penicious than other evils, is the
tendency of many institutions to the develop-
ment of effeminate tastes, desires and trains of
thought—as against the vigorous, manly and
noble instincts which alone fit man for life in
a world where man is strong, hasty and domi-
neering. This latter tendency is greatly true
of West Point, paradoxical though it may
seem, where the course and the instruction, if
not calculated to inculcate moral ideas, beyond
what is considered the honor of soldiers, is cer-
tainly as free from a tendency to effeminacy as
possible.
	A hop was given one evening when I was
visiting that lovely spot. The cadet, or those
who were to graduate that coming season, were
in the greatest demand. It disgusted me to the
soul to observe the number of sweet-faced lov-
ing and lovable, fair formed, tender looking
and true girls who would hang upon the arm,
look anxiously in the face of, and listen to the
interminable twaddle of any number of puny,
insignificant little whipper snappers, because
they happened to be cadets. They could talk
of nothing and about nothing but themselves;
the air, the tone, the gesturre, implied plainer
than all words could possibly express: "To
imagine anything more glorious than to be a
cadet, or to think it possible there should be
anything superior to me, is the measure of ab-
surdity." And I began to think so too, when I
saw how universally these same fair girls seemed
to accept the tacit proposition as one of heaven's
own truths, and noticed to what extent the
matrons and dames having them in charge gave
whatever force they could to maintain the pre-
vailing sentiment, by smirking, bowing, simper-
ing over, and manifesting deference to a horde
of kids they should have soundly punished and
sent to bed. One young fellow, said to be un-
usually bright and to stand well in his class,
addressed himself twice in my hearing; first, to
a lovely looking girl, and then to a simpering
dame, the mother of the girl, in the following
vein:
	"Oh, yes, I stand well in my class. Yes,
some of the boys" (meaning them) "cannot be
at the hop to-night, as they are laid up in the
hospital. They were hurt in the riding school.
Haven’t you heard of our class? Oh, ours is
going to be a famous cavalry class! why we are
already distinguished; dear, yes. That branch

[Column 3]

of service—the cavalry—is rapidly increasing.
I belong to it! The life of a cadet is very en-
viable. No, indeed, I don't wonder at you ad-
miring it; we all do; all the boys. We have
glorious times! Of course it is hard to keep up,
you know, we have to be very intelligent, but
then we admire it, and that, of course, is
enought." And so he went on with this inces-
sant chirping, and both mother and daughter
manifested a degree of tact and intelligence in
the variations with which they were paralyzed
and surprised with ecstacies of delight at the
frankness of this ingenuous youth, that would
have done honor to a creditable and brain re-
fining pursuit.
	And this, I am informed, is the topic of con-
versation of every, or nearly every cadet. No
wonder young lieutenants are not noted for their
remarkable intellects and great conversational
powers. No wonder that mere association with
one of them is sufficient forever to pulverize
the heart and tender fancies of a blushing
maiden. Yet the young fellows are not all to
blame. These match-making mothers trot
about after the body soldiers, deifying them,
forcing upon them a choice among any number
of priceless girls just budding into tenderest and
sweetest womanhood, whose angel faces betray
unconscious innocence; until the young men
get the notion that there exists nothing in flesh
and blood, made up in the divine form of
woman, that is not a condescension for them to
gaze upon with favor. This is the unparalleled
essence of vanity, or if it exists anywhere in
a more powerful degree than in West Point,
prevent me, heaven, from ever coming in con-
tact with it. If the dignity and the enduring
credit of the American army has to depend
upon such specimens of humanity, then save us,
heaven, for we are lost.
	There are many and notable exceptions to
what is said, fine, strapping young men that
one cannot help admiring, and whose counten-
ances show a power to resist evil and to look
forward to a more glorious future than is with-
in the mental ken of the wildest "army mash-
er;" but compared with the whole, there are few;
and, judging from what I have seen and heard,
if a community should be forced into a posi-
tion requiring prayer to be delivered from this
specimen of "army officer," or the "army
worm," for one I should pray that the "worm"
be allowed to remain.
	WANDERING BOY.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

WEBER STAKE.

	Thursday morning, Dec. 11, 1884, the Re-
lief Society conference convened in the Ogden
Tabernacle for two day's meeting, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. There were present sever-
al Bishops, and Coun. Middleton of the Presi-
dency of that Stake.
	After singing "Come all ye sons of Zion," etc.,
prayer was offered by Elder A. Smurthwaite,
singing, "Let us pray, gladly pray," minutes
of previous conference were read by Miss Newey.
Prest. J. S. Richards was the first speaker; she
referred to the Stake organization of the Re-
lief Society in Weber County as one of the
last works performed by the late Brigham
Young, and said they had been blessed in all
their labors since that time; spoke of her own
feelings in attempting to perform what Prest.
Young had instructed her to do, and that she
felt it was her duty to do all that he had placed
upon her to the best of her ability, and that
strength and courage had been given her from
time to time to carry out his wishes. She
praised the sisters for the noble part they had
taken in coming to her aid, and spoke of the
union, which had been so gratifying, and the
co-operation of the Bishops and brethren in
every good work the sisters had undertaken.


[Column 1]

Sister Mary Bird of Lynne represented the Re-
lief Society of that ward, and also bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, Sister
M. Bingham of the ward in which she presided,
after which Sister E. B. Wells addressed the
conference.
	Bishop P. G. Taylor made some commenda-
tory remarks, endorsing what had been said by
the sisters, after which Sister Mary Douglas
reported West Weber Relief Society, and con-
ference adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing.
Benediction by Bishop McQuarrie.
	Afternoon session: After singing prayer
was offered by Elder W. R. R. Stowell. The
speakers in the afternoon were Counselor H. C.
Brown, Prest. M. Shirtliff, East Harrisville,
Prest. M. A. Ellis, Second Ward Ogden, E. B.
Wells of Salt Lake City, Prest. C. F. Middle-
ton, Bishop R. McQuarrie, Bishop S. Bingham,
and Sister Ann Odell.
	Prest. Richards made some quite eloquent
remarks in regard to the desire she had to help
on the Latter day work, and commended the
sisters' liberality in giving of their means, and
especially for the generous donations made to
the Logan Temple and to the Deseret Hos-
pital.
	Friday morning: Conference resumed its
session; after the usual exercises and a few words
from Prest. Richards, Sister Mary Hall,
Treasurer, reported the financial condition of
the Relief Society of the Stake. Brief ad-
dresses were then made by Elder Stowell, Sis-
ters B. W. Smith of Salt Lake City, Prest. S.
A. Herricks and Apostle F. D. Richards, and
he seemed inspired to speak in the most father-
ly way to the sisters who had assembled there
for instruction.
	The meeting in the afternoon was addressed
first by Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Prest. L.
R. Farr reported the Third Ward of Ogden;
Elder Wm. Butler made some remarks. Prest.
L. W. Shirtliff in his remarks spoke of his re-
cent visit to the east, and of visiting his mother's
grave in Nauvoo; alluded to the dilapidated
and ruinous condition of that once beautiful
city, and made some very excellent general re-
marks upon the society of the world, and
blessed the Relief Society.
	Apostle F. D. Richards spoke of the trials
the Saints were called upon to endure; said the
work was growing and the things now transpir-
ing are positive proof of it; thought there was
no occasion to fear the threats or menaces of
our enemies; exhorted all to prepare for the
promised coming of the Savior.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards made some very ap-
propriate remarks at the close of the confer-
ence; rejoiced in the testimonies that had been
borne during the two day's meetings, and prayed
for a blessing upon all.
     Singing, and then benediction pronounced by
Apostle Richards. Conference adjourned for
three months.

UTAH COUNTY.

	Minutes of the conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah County, held Nov. 28th, 1884,
Prest. Mary John presiding. Conference
opened by singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of former conference, etc.
	Sister John said: "It is with peculiar feelings
that I stand before you to-day. Hitherto our
beloved President, if not with us, was where I
could counsel with her in all affairs pertaining
to our society in this Stake of Zion, but now I
stand alone, as it were, and I ask an interest
in your prayers that I may be strengthened,
and perform my duties satisfactorily. I will
now give way for the presidents of the county
to give in their reports.
	This took up most of the time in the fore-
noon. The Resolutions of Respect to the mem-
ory of our beloved President, Margaret T.
Smoot, were read, and after singing and prayer
conference adjourned till 2 p.m.

[Column 2]

	Afternoon, conference resumed its session:
Quite a number of the brethren were present.
Opened by singing and prayer. Sister John
said, we will proceed to business.
	Prest. A. O. Smoot said he was pleased to
see so many of the sisters present to represent
the several branches of the Relief Society of
Utah County. Understood it was the purpose
to fill the vacancy occasioned by the demise of
President Margaret T. Smoot, and as Sister
John had been nominated to fill that vacancy
he would call a vote of the conference to that
effect. The motion was carried unanimously.
Bro. Smoot said the position was an important
one. It is unnecessary to eulogize the works
of the sisters they speak for themselves. Spoke
of the aid the sisters had been in helping on
the work on the Stake Tabernacle by their dona-
tions, etc.
	Sister John then chose Sister Rhoda Lyman
as her first Counselor and Sister Emily G.
Cluff as her second Counselor.
	Sister John said: "I feel this a great responsi-
bility, but I will endeavor to do the best I can,
for I realize that this is the work of God, and
with your faith and prayers I feel I shall suc-
ceed."
	Sister Lyman said: "I feel to respond to
every call that is made upon me, and I ask
your faith and prayers that I may succeed."
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said: "I am willing to
respond to every call, and with your help I
will do the best I can."
	Bro. John spoke of the nomination of Sister
Anna K. Smoot for Stake President of the
Primary Associations of Utah Co., and called
for a vote of the conference to that effect,
which was carried. Bro. John said this office
was a very important and responsible one,
and it needs just such women as Sister Anna
K. Smoot to preside over these associations;
faithful, energetic and true Latter-day Saints,
etc. 
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball regretted that she
could not be with us at our last meeting; was
at the bedside of our dear Sister Smoot. "She
has passed away; we miss her, and shall miss
her for years to come, and while we are passing
away, one by one, it reminds us very forcibly
that earth is not our home," etc.
	Bro. H.H. Cluff thanked the sisters for the
very able manner in which they had responded
to his call for help for the new Tabernacle."
	Bro. John endorsed all that had been done.
Spoke of Ma Smoot as a wise counselor and a
woman of wisdom and knowledge; one that
had been associated with the leading members
of this Church, and we shall miss her much.
	Sister John said she felt that we had had a
feast to-day, and prayed God to bless us all.
After singing conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Prest. Smoot.
	C. DANIELS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿ITEMS FROM CACHE COUNTY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The women of Cache Co. are up and doing.
On Friday, the 5th of December, our Relief
Society Stake President, E. Bensen, with her
First Counselor, Lucy Cardon, started out to
visit the settlements north of Logan that had
not been already visited this year. She stayed
one night with her son, at Trenton, made an
appointment for Sunday afternoon, then went
on and met with the Relief Society at Clark-
ston.
	On Friday our Primary Stake President,
Jane Molen, with her First Counselor, Adeline
Barber, two other ladies and James, the boy
emigrated two years ago by the Cache Co.
Primaries, as driver, started to fill appointments
also north of Logan, reaching Clarkston, where,
after partaking of a comfortable supper, all
were invited to attend a choir party, where we

[Column 2]

met a kindly welcome from Bishop Jardine
and others present. We were much gratified
to see the courtesy and good order there prac-
ticed. The nice boys, some six feet high and
some little fellows, while they danced with their
guests did not forget their own little sisters and
their grandmas, as well as their young ladies.
	On Saturday, at 10 a.m., in the large, com-
fortable Clarkston school house, with the choir
in attendance, the Relief Society held their
meeting, which was called to order by Presi-
dent Mary Griffin. The society of Clarkston,
Newton and Trenton were then represented,
and the reports of each were very favorable.
The President of Trenton was honorably re-
leased, and Catherine Ames appointed to fill
the vacancy. The congregation was then ad-
dressed by the visiting sisters, instructed in
many things, and all invited to attend the
Primary, which would meet at 2 p.m. A full
house was the result, and after hearing the re-
ports Sister Molen questioned the children on
many points—requested them always to answer
in concert, and gave some excellent instruction.
which was followed by the other sisters, each
speaking a few words of comfort, counsel and
exhortation.
	After this meeting Sister Benson returned to
Trenton to fill her appointment. Met there
C. O. Card and Counselors Mrs. Carrie Smith
and Miss Carlisle; they held meeting there con-
jointly, and the Primary company went to
Newton and were comfortably and pleasantly
entertained. They met the Stake President,
C. O. Card and company, at the Sabbath
School. Held a conjoint meeting there, and
much good instruction was given. Mothers
were instructed to be kind and good to their
children; boys and girls to interest themselves
in their pursuits, and live so that mother should
be their best friend and counselor; boys and
girls should live so that if father and mother
could see every action of their lives the blush
of shame would never rise to their cheek. A
good deal was said to the little ones about
prayer.
	The Primary party returned through Benson
and held a meeting at Hyde Park at 3 p.m. on
Monday afternoon. The house was filled—the
oldest grandmas and the youngest babies, all
the children and many of the sisters being
there. The exercises were exceedingly well
rendered; the children, without being bold, were
quiet and self-reliant; fully proving that the
Primary schools are doing a great work in pre-
paring the minds of the young for the Mutual
Improvement Associations.
	At Clarkston Sister Emma Pike related a
warning dream, that had greatly impressed
itself on her mind—that herself, E. S.
Crowther and the teamster were in immediate
danger of being overturned on a dug way. It
came true; and only by keeping our seats as we
had done in her dream, that we were saved
from a bad accident.
	I cannot conclude this little article without
mentioning our little "Picture Gallery." By
way of change the children of the 6th Ward
Primary were instructed to draw with pencil
each a picture. There was a great variety,
showing plainer than words the character of
the artists. Portraits of President Pike
and husband, her counselors, gorillas, monkeys,
roosters, cats, geometriccal lines and solids,
pretty rooms, fine clothes, etc., which were ex-
hibited to the children at Clarkston and at Bro.
Rigby's.
	Hoping you will find room for this little
sketch, I am,	Respectfully,
	E. S. CROWTHER.


"Mathilde Blind is about to publish in Lon-
don an Italian novel called "Tarantella." The
time of the story is 1845."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SISTERS' VISIT TO GRANTSVILLE.

	On Friday morning, Dec. 12, 1884, in com-
pany with Sisters M. I. Horne and E. S. Taylor,
we started for Grantsville, via. of the Utah
Western Railway, to attend the conference of
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations of Tooele Stake to be held at 
Grantsville. At the Mill crossing a carriage
and horses met us and we drove to Grantsville,
calling at Bishop Hunter's, where we were
joined by Sister Mary Ann Hunter, and pro-
ceeded to Elder Samuel Woolley's residence, a 
little outside of town. There we were most
hospitably welcomed and feasted upon the
good things the country affords. In the even-
ing the family gathered together in the large
and handsome parlor, and in singing and music,
with conversation upon various topics, the even-
ing passed pleasantly away. Elder S. Woolley
Jun, the Eldest son, who had recently re-
turned from a three years' mission to the Sand-
wich Islands, gave us some of his experience
there, and the little folks sang, among other
pieces, some very pretty songs composed in
honor of his return home, that had been set to
music [-]y Prof. Ratliffe of that place.
	Saturday morning the conference of the Re-
lief Society convened in the Grantsville meet
ing house, Mrs. M. A. Hunter presiding. There
were present Prest. H. S. Gowan and Counselor
Anderson of Tooele Stake, and other brethren.
Sister Jane Eastham gave a brief report of
the Society of Grantsville, and Sister Emily
S. Warburton of the Society of Tooele. The
meeting was addressed by Sisters Hunter,
Horne and Wells. In the afternoon the Pri-
mary conference convened. About one hun-
dred and fifty children were present, Sister
Sarah Hale presiding. The programme was a
very good one and responded to promptly.
Sister Louisa Hale, who presides over the Pri-
mary at Grantsville, seems to understand how
to deal with the little folks. On account of
the weather there were no children present and
no reports from other wards in the Stake. The
children were addressed by Sisters Taylor, Wells
and Horne. The singing was very good in-
deed, and the choice of selections both for sing-
ing and speaking were good. The answers to
Bible Questions were very correctly given.
	Saturday evening, at 7 o'clock, the Y. L. M.
I. A. conference was held. There was a numer-
ous attendance, and a great many young men
in the audience, Mrs. Ann Tate presiding.
Miss Ettie Hale, who has recently been chosen
to preside over the Y. L. of Grantsille, made.
a few remarks, also Sister Tate, and then Prest
Elmina Taylor made a stirring appeal to the
young people, followed by Sisters M. I. Horne
and E. B. Wells in the same strain.
	Sunday morning we had the pleasure of at-
tending the Sabbath School,which is under the
able direction and management of Supt. Wm.
Jeffries. The manuscript paper was one of 
the most pleasing features of the day. Some
of the exercises were deferred on account of
the visitors from Salt Lake being present, each
of whom addressed the School for a few
minutes.
	At 2 o'clock the conference convened again
as per adjournment on Saturday morning, and
after the sacrament was administered, Mrs. M.
A. Huuter made a few opening remarks, and
was followed by the visiting sisters. The sub-
jects treated upon were the duties pertaining to
the several organizations in which the sisters
were called to labor, the religious, political and
social questions of the day, the paying of
tithes, storing of wheat, building of Temples
and work to be done in them for the living and
the dead, the rearing of children, their disci-
pline and training, family government, etc.
Prest. Gowan and Counselor Anderson made
some remarks, encouraging the sisters in their
labors, and endorsing what had been said dur-

[Column 2]

ing conference. Conference adjourned for
three months to be held at Tooele.
	During our visit at Grantsville we were en-
tertained at the homes of Bro. Aroet Hale,
Bro. John Eastham, Bro. Alma Hale, Bro.
Wm. Young and at Bishop Hunter's. The
visit was a very agreeable one, and the people
were most hospitable and kind.
	Monday morning Bro. Earnest Hale con-
veyed our party to the station, Sister Hunter
accompanying us to the city.


ANNIVERSARY OF FIFTH WARD
PRIMARY.

	On Sunday evening, Nov. 23rd, the Fifth
Ward Primary Association celebrated their
second annual meeting since the re-organization.
A spacious platform had been prepared in the
meeting house, on which the little ones were
arranged, their bright, happy faces expressive
of the pleasure they felt on the occassion. The
programme was excellent, and the selections
well rendered.
	After the opening hymn by all the children,
Roy Cowan and Daisy Pettit welcomed the
audience in a charming little dialogue, which
was followed by a duet by Lizzie Palmer and
Emily Durrans; after this a recitation by Willie
Brimley; Dialogue by Alex and Archie Buch-
anan; Organ solo by Lizzie Brown; Recitation
by B. Ricketts; Duet by Lollie and Ella Mar-
croft; Essay by Lillie Pettit; Recitation by Roy
Cowan; Son[-], Emily Abbott; Dialogue. "Wait-
ing for Primary," by seven girls, which was
very interesting, not only from the principles
illustrated, but also from the excellency of its
delivery. Other exercises followed, all equally
well presented, and the programme closed with
the song, "Love at Home." President Clark
presided and the meeting house was filled with
a pleasant and attentive audience of parents
and friends.
	At the close of the exercises President Clark
called upon Elder Brown for a few remarks,
and he expressed himself as well pleased with
the order and with the efforts of the little ones.
	Dr. E; B. Ferguson then addressed the par-
ents on the importance and benefit of the Asso-
ciation to their children, and urged upon them
the necessity of their co-operation with the offi-
cers of the association in all their efforts for the
improvement and instruction of the children.
Benediction by Elder Page.


"The following patents have been granted to
women during the week ending Nov. 25, 1884:
	Sarah A. Beolt, Norfolk, Va., Combined
Folding Chair and Bath tub.
	Mary Bidwell, Springfield, Ohio, Hand Pro-
tector.
	Alice B. Bromwell, Washington, D. C., Blot-
ting Thimble or Pad.
	Isora Elder, San Francisco, Cal., Embroidery
Frame."


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at her residence near Junction, Piute Co., Utah,
Nov. 1st., 1884, about 4 p.m., Lucinda Sprague Bay, wife
of James Willard Bay, and daughter of Festus and Bar-
bara Sprague. She was born in Delaware Co., Porter
Township, Ohio. December 1st., 1826, she embraced the
Gospel there and immigrated to Utah in 1852; was mar-
ried to James Wiliard Bay in the spring of 1852 by Pres-
ident Orson Hyde at Kauesville, and in the fall received
the ordinances in the house of the Lord in Salt Lake
City and was sealed for time and eternity by President
Kimball.
	She moved to Southern Utah and lived in Dixie twen-
ty-one years. She taught school there for some time,
and was highly esteemed as a district and Sabbath
School teacher. She had the privilege of going to the
Temple at St. George and doing a good work for the
dead with her husband.	*	*	*	Moved to


Junction, Piute Co., Utah, where she lived until her
death.
	She leaves a husband, one son, one nephew and four
nieces in the family now at home, together with all the
Saints in the Junction Branch of the Kingston Ward in
Panguitch Stake, to mourn her loss. Peace to her and
her resting place forever.
		JAMES WILLARD BAY, Sen.
	We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved sister, Lu-
cinda Bay, and we condole with her family and friends
in their great loss; but while we mingle our tears with
theirs we would point with joy to the hope of a glorious
resurrection, which all true Latter-day Saints possess.
		SARAH S. SUDWEEKS.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.﻿
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a l[-]rger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS.
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

FAuerbach & Bro.
A Full, and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

