shown us by a friend la No. 2, Vol.1, published
July, 1831, and contains 20 pages.  The editorial
is well written and contains excellent advice to
the young ladies.  The other articles of prose
and poetry are mostly from the young girls of
that Stake, and are a great credit to the Asso-
ciations.  It is a very commendable effort on
the part of the young ladies in that locality, and
we sincerely hope their enterprise will succeed.
The WOMAN'S EXPONENT offers congratulations
and would be glad to exchange.
	“THE NEW ERA,” successor to “Our Herald,”
is now  published in Chicago, Elizabeth Boynton
Herbert, well known to our readers and to the
public generally as one of the representative
women of America, is the editor.  It is in square
magazine form and contains sixty-two pages, is
published monthly.  The articles are all from
the pens of able writers; and we think it one of
the very best womens’ papers of the present
time, when there are many that are good.
These journals and magazines in the hands of
thoughtful and intelligent women are doing a
vast amount of good, more than we can enumer-
ate. They reach all classes of society and are
sowing not only in good ground, but broadcast,
much precious seed that will spring into bud,
blossom and fruit in due time for the advance-
ment of the human family.


WHAT ARE WOMAN'S RIGHTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Having a few moments to spare I thought I
would jot down a few of my reflections upon the
reading of the minutes of the “Woman Suffrage
Convention, lately held in the City of Washing-
ton, D. C., and published in your issue of  Feb-
ruary 15, especially the following on page 150:
"Whereas the dogmas incorporated in religious
creeds derived from Judaism, teaching that wo-
man was an afterthought of creation, her sex a
misfortune, marriage a condition of subordina-
tion and maternity a curse."  And concluding
with the words, "that in true religion there is
neither male nor female, bond nor free, but all
are one."
     I am writing now not for the purpose of pro-
voking discussion with the estimable ladies of
the East who are so earnestly advocating and
working for the rights of their sex, but for the
women of Mormondom, who, above all the rest
of womankind, have need to understand correct-
ly the relation that man and woman, especially
husband and wife, sustain to each other; be-
cause their religion (which Mrs. Stanton after-
wards claimed had a debasing tendency) teaches
some principles which, if true, involve eternal
consequences, but if false, then are we most
grossly deceived.
     What are the facts?  Adam was the first man
and Eve the first woman;  no matter whether
she came in company with him or followed af-
ter.  We find the two together living in har-
mony and peace; we have no record of conten-
tion, jealousy, or distrust manifesting itself dur-
ing their entire residence in the Garden of Eden.
Although history is silent in regard to the time
they spent together in this happy state, yet it is
evident from records that some time did elapse,
also that they were familiar with the Almighty
and received visits from Him during that
period.
     But a change is wrought.  By whom?  By the
serpent.  First seriously affecting Eve, because
she yielded to his wiles, afterwards Adam, be-
cause he voluntarily partook; and through these
the entire creation involving consequences and
conditions that are beyond the power of argu-
ment to reason away or philosophy to disperse,
no matter how profound.
     The f[-]at of the Almighty (Jehovah) goes
forth--read the third chapter of Genesis from
the ninth to the nineteenth verses, inclusive.
Nearly six thousand years of our time has
elapsed since then, exhibiting humanity, in fact
all creation, in every possible phase and condi-
tion.  Tell me, has God's word as pertaining to
the earth, to the serpent, to Eve, to Adam,
failed in any one particular?  Does the serpent
crawl upon his belly; is there enmity between
him and man?  Does woman still bring forth
in sorrow?  Is the ground still cursed; and does the
thorn and thistle still grow spontaneously, in-
volving constant labor to keep in check?  Does
the sweat drop to-day from the brow of the hus-
bandman, and does man finally die, and woman
too?  All nature answers with one united voice,
"'Tis true."
     Now we come to one little clause contained in
the text: "Thy desire shall be to thy husband,
and he shall rule over thee."  Shall we patient-
ly submit to all the rest because we are unable
to alter and fight against, protest, ignore, and
finally defy the Almighty to pronounce these
words?  No.  We will accept of the penalty in
its entirety, for it is a penalty. We will submit
to the ordeal and thank God for the privilege,
because it is the road to life, immortality and
eternal glory.  But this rule of man, in what
does it consist?  Can its powers be defined?  Is
woman necessarily man's slave; is there left to
her no right to reason, no power of choice?


[Column 1]
﻿Because she was deceived by the serpent must
she be deprived of will power during her mortal
career? Mormonism inculcates no such princi-
ples, teaches no such doctrine.  If woman at-
tains to exaltation with man, it will be because
she merits in her own right that exaltation. If
she ever strives at a condition of glory it will be
because the elements necessary to such a condi-
tion dwell within herself.
   But can woman be advised, counseled and di-
rected by man, and yield thereto without sacri-
ficing in the least her womanhood?  Most cer-
tainly. As man can yield to his fellow man and
stlll retain his manhood.
   Can man attain to a fulness of exaltation
without woman?  No, verily.  For as the race
cannot be perpetuated upon earth without wo-
man, so the lives cannot be continued hereaf-
ter without her.  Then is she not necessary to
man, both here and hereafter?  Most truly.  As
woman would be utterly helpless without man
in accomplishing her destiny.
   Then instead of claiming"that in true religion
there is neither male nor female,” we assert
that, it is most essential that the sexes be pre-
served intact with their peculiar gifts, qualifica-
tions, endowments and rights, operating and la-
boring in their peculiar sphere to accomplish and
bring to pass the purposes of Jehovah in their
creation, and this labor should be entered upon
and continued harmoniously without jar or dis-
cord.  The man who is jealous of woman in the
exercise of all the powers that belong to her is
an object of pity; the woman who presumes to
perform the functions of man unsexes herself.
   But is woman man’s equal? This seems to be
the grand culminating point in all discussions
upon this subject.  Viewed from the woman’s
suffrage standpoint I would answer the ques-
tion, most certainly.  She should vote in com-
pany with man at every election untram-
melled and free, for if the sentiments of
Rev. Olympia Brown, as expressed in the Con-
vention, be true concerning man, then is woman
not only his equal but more than his peer.  But
from a Mormon standpoint I would answer the
question more fully.
   The fact of woman enjoying the right of fran-
chise in Utah for so many years past, and that,
too, a voluntary gift of our Legislature without
her asking, is a proof positive that we have no
fear of our wives and daughters, and we shall
fight most determinedly against any infringe-
ment in this regard  All who are acquainted
with Mormon customs know that from the first,
woman has had the right to vote in common
with men upon all public matters, and especial-
ly so in regard to the exercise of priestly author-
ity and rule, thus carrying out the will of the
Almighty that“all things shall be done by com-
mon consent.”
   But is man the head of the woman? Paul says
that he is, as Christ is the head of the Church.
There is no authority or office of the Priesthood
but man can receive of himself without the
woman, and exercise its powers and functions
independent of her.  Whereas, if woman ever
receives any degree of Priesthood it will be in
connection with and because of her relation to 
man. To use some familiar terms by way of il-
lustration: If a woman ever becomes a queen it
will be because of her relation to a king; if a
Priestess, because she is the wife of a Priest, he
having preceded her and received of himself his
authority, she following in possession first be-
cause of merit; second, because of right of in-
heritance by virtue of relationship to the man,
their union having been sanctified by the pow-
ers of heaven. Their increase inheriting all that
belongs to both father and mother.  Such a
union of man and woman perpetuating eternal
dominion in which is incorporated all the glory

[Column 2]
that is possible to conceive.  Child submitting
to parent, wife yielding to husband, man bow-
ing down to the Savior, and that Savior giving
up all to the Father, that “God may be all in
all.”  Each one while thus yielding, still retain-
ing their individual power and place unimpaired,
filled to a fulness according to their position and
calling, without one feeling of distrust or jeal-
ousy in regard to the other. Can man, woman
or child ask for more than this?
   While we sympathise, with the women of
Christendom in their earnest endeavors to ob-
tain their rights, and while we sense the wrongs
of which men are guilty and the terrible condi-
tion of the world viewed from every standpoint,
should we not be thankful for what we have re-
ceived of the true knowledge of God and the
principles of eternal life thst renders unneces-
sary any argument or contention in regard to
individual br sexual rights, for is not our calling
and election made sure?
						  J. E. TAYLOR,
   Salt Lake City, Feb. 22, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVE. 

	This is a little word of only four letters, yet
how potent, how powerful, and with it comes
our liberty or bondage. If we love right, we
are free; free in our souls, pure in our hearts, let
come what may, though oft through surround-
ing circumstances and worldly influence we are
swerved from the right, not having the moral
courage to resist evil, or know for ourselves the
sad results of weakness and hatred until too
late.
	Love, not fear, prompts the Latter-day Saints
to take upon them this title of honor. God so
loved the world that He gave His Son as a ran-
som; and in all His life and attributes we find
nothing but the purest love and the greatest self-
sacrifice for us. Can we be ashamed to own our
Lord? Never.
	History gives but few exceptions where man
who held power loved his fellow man better
than himself, even science must see her advo-
cates give their lives for the self-evident truths
she blesses mankind with; and when once cus-
tom sets her foot in a certain channel, woe to
those who divulge therefrom, whether it be
right or wrong. From Abraham to Washington,
divine ravelation has told the Saints of these
men and their mission, end no where in this
fair land are Columbus and Washington appre-
ciated and understood as here in Zion. The
legacy of freedom given us by our noble ances-
tors in this goodly land, we prize and mean to
maintain, here where the oppressed can find a
refuge, here where a nation has grown from in-
fancy to manhood in so short a time, we would
naturally expect liberty to live a life of vigor
for hundreds of years, but we find feeble old age
has come all too soon in some portions of the
land, and poor Idaho is evidently letting her
standard of liberty sink into an untimely grave.
	Is it for the love of their fellow men that citi-
zens of the United States are declared slaves in
Idaho? Let the world read and judge what men
love to do with the rights of their fellow men
when ones their souls are fettered with hate in-
stead of love for those who are walking in a bet-
ter and purer atmosphere than their own easy,
downward road. Behold how crooked can they
make the straight and just way of constitution-
al liberty bond.
	Because the Saints believed that God had
spoken from the heavens again and in His love
for His children had revealed the truth were
they branded and driven. Again comes the
voice of our Father that there is a higher and
better law. Will we obey it? Yes; the noble

[Column 2]
men and God-fearing women would honor the
source of their being, would honor the cause of
social regeneration, and be the noble pioneers of
a higher and holier life; for this are they ac-
cused of crime, yet will they contend to protect
virtue and love to bestow all the rights the fair
daughters of Eve are entitled to through their
obedience to the laws of God.
	It has become popular to hate the Mormons,
but do those who revile know what the Gospel
we have embraced is? We answer it in two or
three words—a consistent life. We love the
truth and control ourselves, for this are we as-
sailed on the right and on the left.
	The men that love to defile the daughters of 
Eve are unworthy the name of men, and no
man has the right to lay the weight of his
hand on a woman, "except in the marriage re-
lation." Would to God the women of the world
had the same protection that we, the Mormon
women, have: the blighted lives and sad hearts
that are seen by our Heavenly Father caused
by the lust and inconstancy of lustful Mormon-
hating men is enough to cause the very heavens
to weep.
	Where can we find pure love? In the homes
of the Latter-day Saints; there ir sits enthroned.
If sorrow and death visit such a household there
is comfort and relief at hand. A friend of mine
was called to part with his first wife. When
she was dying he said, "Mother, what do you
wish to say about the children?" With a look
of love and confidence she replied, "Anna will
do just as well by you and the children as I."
And there are thousands of such instances that
prove our confidence in and love for each other.
Is this love or lust?
	Another instance--In conversation with a 
brother who has thirty-six children, he said not
one ever gave him a saucy or unkind word; his 
descendants, all told, number over one hun-
dred. Lust kills the evidences of its crime, love
saves, cherishes and rears them to become noble
men and women, and claims the wives and
children as his own wealth for time and all eter-
nity.
	Over 4,200 lovely, bright, intelligent children
partake of the Lord's Supper every Sabbath, and
there are over 3,200 little ones under eight years
of age in their dear native Utah. And when we
look around among our noble boys and girls,
who can help exclaiming, surely the Lord is
with His people. Proud might any nation be
of such treasures. Is this the sign of decay, of
degredation, of disloyalty to our government?
Not to any right-minded, reasonable person. Our
principles are perfect, and we will continue to
love them and strive to live them,God being our
helper, protest the rights of others, envy no
one, be pure in our daily walk in life and leave-
the result in God's hands.
Zina D.H. Young


MIND IN MEDICINE.
	I have just laid down a small book bearing
the above title; and think it would be quite as
appropriate to call it medicine in mind. I have
read it through twice, and dipped into it fre-
quently besides; I felt from the first perusal it
was worthy a study. The author is metaphysi-
cal, and his thoughts flow so rapidly that he tel-
escopes his ideas; consequently the book must
be read closely to read it understandingly, that
the reader may take in his original and unique
assertions. Much truth is embodied within its
leaves, which, without close attention, we
should fail to realize.
	A deep thinking mind is exhibited through
its pages, and I have read parts over and over
again to make myself sure that I comprehend-
ed the author's meaning. I feel that it contains


much that will benefit its readers if reduced to
practice. To those who read that they may be
edified and instructed, such writers as the author
are public benefactors, and such should be the
motive-power of all readers.
	He vividly portrays the effect of imagination
with regard to ailments and disease upon an
over-sensitive and excitable nature, fear produc-
ing the disease so much dreaded; as prophecy,so
called, has often been known to be the cause of
its own fulfillment. The author evidently pos-
sesses one of the greatest gifts of God, viz. com-
mon sense! and his book should lie on the writ-
ing table of all, that it may be taken up in
spare moments, and its ideas will be found to
have a fructifying influence, more or less, on all
who study its contents to be instructed, it is de-
cidedly a book of reference, a wise monitor whom
the wise will appreciate.
	Even the strong and well balanced mind has
clouds flitting over it at times. The sun itself
has its spots,and the brightest day its little float-
ers ranging over its glorious concave, hence a
friend as “Mind in Medicine” is a friend in
need.
	I will give a brief extract or two from his
unique ideas: “Is sickness a sin? Yes, often
through some of our antecedents—‘some one has
blundered that line of Tennyson’s is true of all
aches and pains! Every saint by his or her
sanctity cleanses themselves and their off-
spring.” “A healthy body is a sign of a holy
life."
	“Mental medicine is not only sure, but often
wonderfully swift; a ray of light from a kind
countenance, a conviction that you are dear to
somebody, gives an impulse of courage from a
Christ like reassurring WILL—a word may be a
medicine, a letter, a piece of paper thrown into
the mall, a white-winged messenger,more beau-
tiful than doves, flying thousands of miles on
its errand of love, across the continent, on the
mighty ocean; but it reaches me, I touch it, and
I feel the warm current of life rushing through
my heart and veins—It is a cordial, but from no
bin or flask—it is a comforter, but not of silk or
elder-down or wool.

[Column 2]
were perfectly at ease in their very difficult
parts. Their singing, their acting and their
witticisms all merited the enthusiastic applause
they received from the audience. Mrs. Leviberg
as Lady Jane sustained the part with all the en-
thusiasm of a professional. Her voice is good
and thoroughly cultivated. Both Patience and
Lady Jane received quite a number of floral of-
ferings. Angela, Birdie Cummings, and Saphir,
Louise Wells, both looked and acted their parts
with becoming grace and dignity. The sex-
tette, in which Edna Russell, Louise Wells and
Lucy Young, and Messrs. Pyper, Crawford
and Barnes sang, was one of the gems of the
evening Fred Clawson created considerable
enthusiasm whenever he appeared, and added
to the humorous character of the play. The or-
chestra played exquisitely and was warmly ap-
plauded.
	Prof. Krouse has labored assiduously while
training the young people for Patience, and de-
serves great credit for the success of the per-
formance. Altogether it was quite a notable
event, quite as much so, if not more than Pina-
fore. The whole affair was very well arranged
and admirably managed.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PLEASED WITH PATIENCE AND ITS
PERFORMERS.

EDITOT DESERET NEWS:
     I went to see Patience last evening, and was
amply repaid, as was every body else, I am sure,
who saw it.  One feature of the performance
was yery noticeable, and indeed, very enjoyable
to me, as it must have been to every person of
age and experience, who had the pleasure of
witnessing it. namely, that sweet, that inno-
cent refined look of purity that filled the stage
from the beautiful Mrs. Leviberg to the charm-
ing little Miss Thatcher—a feature, I am sorry
to say, seldom adorns the stage of to-day.  This,
Mr. Editor, to such as I who have traveled and
known the world for many years now, proved a
treat never to be forgotten, and on this account
homes and that same country which should
have protected them.
     Mrs. Sessions continues: “3rd. Bro. Brig-
ham took dinner with us.  Next day went
back three miles to where Parley P. Pratt was
camped, his wife had a daughter born.  On
the 4th, Independence Day, the Indians rode
out in style, came to the camp and danced for
us.  It was a war dance, and they were paint-
ed after their fashion.  6th. Crossed the Mis-
souri River; we are here situated between the
mountains, in the valley, no road cut yet, but
the men are at work making one as fast as
they can.  Wednesday, 8, the team has gone
back to fetch up Bro, Call, Tuesday, 14.
Eliza Lyman was taken sick, I was sent for;
she has a son; also on the same day Sophia
Dame with a daughter,”
“Thursday, 16.  A meeting in the morning
and counsel given to all who are ready, to go
on to Grand Island for the winter, others to re-
main."
     On the 20th she writes: “Peregrine put some
projection boards bn to our new wagon.” This
may not seem much of an item to the readers,
but if they had traveled as the saints at that
time did, and felt the inconvenience of narrow,
close wagons where one scarcely seemed to
have air enough to breathe, they would realize
what a luxury six or eight inches more in
width would be for the inmates. “Thursday,
23, Orson Pratt, his wife and children came
over the river and took dinner with us.  Fri-
day, 24, I start for Grand Island, go nearly all
he way on foot, found gooseberries and choke-
cherries.  27, the men have gone to work on
the bridge,” and so they continued until it was
completed.
     On Thursday she says the girls gathered
uantitiesof wild grapes with which-Sister
Sessions made wine.  On the 31st she speaks
of being very lonely, she says, “We are here
almost alone, only three tents,Holman’s, Ever-
ett’s and ours; and she adds, “I want to see the
rest of the company so much that I am quite 
discontented."
     Sister Sessions and family returned to the
camp at Winter Quarters in September, she


ary she had a few friends to celebrate her
birthday, and the afternoon was spent in a very
happy manner in blessing her, etc.  This shows
how the saints could enjoy themselves even un-
der the most trying circumstances and difficul-
ties.  "Sister Eliza called in the evening to in-
vite me to a little party, and when I told her
it was my birthday and wished her to bless me,
she said if I would go to the party they all
would bless me.  After going and attending
one of the sisters who had a child born, I went
to the party and had a good time singing, pray-
ing and speaking in tongues; but before the
party broke up I was called away to attend Sis-
ter Morse and from there to Sister E. A. Whit-
ney's, who was not well.  Friday, 5th, I went
to see Sister Joanna Roundy, she said it was
the last time I would ever see her in this world.
I gave her a message to carry to my children
who had died in their infancy and childhood.
In the evening I went to the party of the 'Sil-
ver Greys,' Sister Eliza went with us.  Sister
Joanna Roundy died this evening.  Saturday,
6th, attended to my household work and made
a quantity of soap.  Sister Whitney sent for
me again, I went to wait upon her, she had a
son born at eleven o'clock p.m.'
	This son was the little boy that many of our
readers will remember, a little sufferer all the
days of his life, who lived to be nine years of
age and never walked. Sister Whitney sent for
me again, I went to wait upon her, she had a
son born at eleven o'clock p.m.'
	This son was the little boy that many of our
readers will remember, a little sufferer all the
days of his life, who lived to be nine years of
age and never walked. Sister Whitney called
him "a child of promise," in answer to her
prayers to have a son born in the fulness of the
new and everlasting covenant.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 
(Continued.)
	The same date Horace wrote, "This evening
Porter arrived, bringing Emmeline’s sisters and
brother,their mother having died on the way.”
	Emmeline, the present editor of the Ex-
ponent, was then the wife of Bishop Whitney,
and her liitle sisters and brother were received
and cared for, as were other members of his
family—being under the charge of Sister Em-
meline and Mother Whitney.
	“Saturday, the 21st.		*	*	This
evening Brothers Egan, Stephens and Gulley
came in from the army.  Brother Egan in-
formed me that they had been to Santa Fee,
and that most of the brethren in the army had
gone from there to California.  These brethren
came back for counsel.” The same day a
number of teams came in from St. Joseph with
goods.
	The next day, Sunday, Brother Woolley ar-
rived.  Meeting was held at the stand.  The
main subject, was the sending off of a lot of
men in the spring, also, a few families, and the
remainder to stay at Winter Quarters.  The
evening of the 24th Horace says: “Brothers
Kimball and Brigham met with two men
(mountaineers) from the Salt Lakes,where they
have been settled for sixteen years.  They
narrated their adventures and gave an account
of the climate, etc , which was quite interest-
ing.”
	The same day in speaking of the weather
he said, “There seems to be a particular dis-
position of Providence in our behalf, for al-
though we have,had several cold, frosty nights
the weather has been remarkably mild for win-
ter, and we have not, as yet, experienced the
first snow storm, as is usual in other coun-
tries." 
	The night of the 24th he speaks of experi-
encing the heaviest frost of the season.
	The next day he wrote: “Most of us, viz.,
Howard Egan, John Davenport, Dan Davis;
Jacob Frazier and myself engaged in cutting
and drawing wood from the bottom close by.
Brother Kimball cautioned the folks this even-
ing against using our wood lavishly, sitting up
late at night and keeping a fire burning, as, he
said, before the winter was out it would be
a very scarce article.” We had previously
learned that the Pottowatomie agent had for-
bid us to cut any more timber on the other
side of the river.  He wrote:
	Friday, the 27th.  This evening Brother E.
Benson got back from the eastern country,
where he has been on business.  I learned that
a brother who went with him, and who had
some pecuniary expectations from some of his
friends, was taken up for insanity, because he
belonged to the “Mormons,” and in order to
cheat him out of his property.”
	“Sunday, the 29th.		*	*	Meeting
was held at the stand, at which it was deter-
mined that every man should immediately turn
out and assist in making the race way, in
order that the mill may be finished speedily.
“Brother Kimball called his family together for
the purpose of giving them good instruc-
tion."
	The 1st of December there came quite a
change in the weather—the wind blowing
from the north.  That day Horace mentions
being at work with some of father’s boys, lay-
ing up the logs to Brother Wallace’s house.  A
day or two later they were engaged in putting
up another house for Sister Miller, how Sister
Finch, whose husband had died a short time
previous.
	On the 7th, Abigail Pond, a wife of Bishop
Whitney’s, died.  Two of her sisters had died
a day or two before.  They had lately arrived
from Nauvoo, and were still living in tents. 
Trading commenced at the store that day.
	“Wednesday, the 9th,” Horace wrote, “warm
day for the season.  This morning, early,
learned that during last night a party of'
Indians came from the other side of the river,
which they crossed on the ice, and attacked a
small party of the Omahaws, who are en-
camped near us, and severely, if not mortally
wounded two or three of their number, viz.,
“Big Head,” the chief of the nation, and his
squaw.  Mary, an Indian interpreter with the
Omahaws, says that it was the Iowas who com-
mitted the outrage.  The Omahaws being very
much frightened, to-day moved their encamp-
ment and pitched their tents near Brigham’s
house on Main Street.  The two invalids were
taken to his house to have their wounds dressed.
“Big Head” was shot through the head and
arm; his wife through the arm only, which is
considerably mutilated, and I understood that
it was the intention to have it amputated.
	On the evening ot the followirig Saturday
the Indians “had a great pow wow among them,
screeching and yelling in a horrible manner,
on account of their having just received the
intelligence that a large number of their war-
riors, who went on the hunting expedition a
short time since, had been killed off by the
Sioux.”
	Sunday, the 13th, being a fine day, meeting
was held at the stand.  Brother Luke Johnson
was present.  He had, just come on—had
buried his wife at St. Joseph.  There was 
quite a rejoicing among the old Kirtland
Saints, to see Bro. Luke Johnson among, them
again.  He stayed one night at father’s house.
His'sister, Marinda Hyde, who was living on
the river, came there with him.
	On the 14th Horace wrote, “Brigham, Heber,
E. Benson, Father Cahoon and Ira Eldredge
went down the river about eight miles to the
place where Sarpee used to trade, to make ar-
rangements for the building of houses for the
Omahaws; that being deemed a proper place
for them to settle themselves—it is so well
fortified by nature, that they can discern the
approach of an enemy at some distance.”
	“Sunday, the 20th,” he says, “meeting was
held at Bro. Kimball’s house. Bro. Joseph
Nobles, the Bishop of this ward, presiding, at
which arrangements were made to relieve the
poor, and for establishing a school, etc.”
	Friday, the 25th, was a most beautiful day,
and being Christmas, at evening we had a lit-
tle party at father’s, which, was very enjoyable
and passed off finely.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS

	ALMA WARD, MESA CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Owing to our isolated situation we see but
few communications from this part of the 
country in your valuable paper, hence the
liberty I take in penning a few lines to you,
hoping you will be kind enough to give them
space in your paper.
	We were organized May 31st, 1883, under
the direction of President McDonald, with
Anna Klienman, President; Henrietta Stand-
age and Laureta Staples, Counselors; Sarah
M. Mullens, Secretary; Sophronia A. Standage,
Assistant Secretary; Hannah M. Stewart,
Treasurer. We have thrity-five names en-
rolled, with an average attendance of nineteen.
We hold our meetings semi-monthly, and have
a very good time. The sisters are trying to do
all they can in helping to roll on this great
work; they are ever willing to lend a helping
hand to those that are in want or distress, and
have a desire to do all the good they can, but
owing to the disadvantages and pioneer life of
the people, we have been unable to do as much
as we would like to do. The sisters are trying
to live their religion and serve God. The EX-
PONENT is read in our meetings, with other 
Church works, striving to render them a source
of benefit and mutual improvement.
	Wishing for the success of the EXPONENT,
I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	S. A. S.

	HARRISVILLE. 
	Minutes of a Primary Conference, held at
the east school house, the Primary Association
of West Harrisville meeting with us, com-
mencing at 1 o'clock p.m., Prest. Mary E. 
Taylor presiding. Singing, "In our Lovely
Deseret." Prayer by Bro. L. J. Taylor. Sing-
ing. Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved.
	The President made the opening remarks.
and gave some very good instructions. She
was then followed by the children, with songs,
dialogues, recitations and select reading, which
was very interesting to those who were present
There was a goodly number of the parents
present, who seemed very much pleased with
the exercises of the Primary children. Prest.
Harriet Daybell felt pleased with the children
of the Association; thought they manifested 
great interest in their meetings.
	The speakers were Coun. Wm. Rawson, L.
J. Taylor, T. Brown. N. L. Shurtliff, Jane
Rawson, Lydia Martin, Lovina Hegstead; each
one made some very appropriate remarks, en-
couraging the children in well doing; thought
it a great privilege for the children in these
days to have a meeting where they can be 
taught the principles of the Gospel. It was
also remarked that we should be thankful for
our comfortable homes, when there are so many
out in the world without homes such as we
have. We should live prayerful, and pray for
each other; the Lord will hear your prayers
just as quick as He will your parent's. You
should honor your fathers and mothers and be
kind to every one. There were many other
good instructions given.
	The President said she had been well edified
in listening to the exercises, also the good in-


structions given by our brethren and sisters
that were present, and felt like thanking the
parents for coming out to see us. 
	Adjourned the joint meeting for three
months, to be held at the west school house
Singing, "Lord, dismiss us," etc.  Benediction
by K. D. Brown.  
	ANNIE E. SHURTLIFF, Secretary, 
	MARY ANN TAYLOR, Asst. Sec. 

	SALT LAKE CITY. 

	The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, February 7th, Coun. B. W. 
Smith presiding.  Opened with singing. 
"Arise, my soul, arise."  Prayer by Coun. E. 
Howard. Singing, "Mid scenes of confusion, 
and creature complaints."  Minutes of last
meeting were read and accepted; also minutes
of P. A. of 21st.  11th.  4th and 5th wards. 
Counselor Smith made opening remarks; said
we want to live near to God, and follow what
Prest. Taylor said—"If we get into a storm, 
round up our shoulders and face it the best 
we can, for it cannot last forever."
	Sister Lula Richards said we all know that
God can inspire us; we want to be obedient
and try and sustain our brethren in their hours
of trial;  said she knew that the prayers of the
Saints availed much; exhorted the sisters to 
teach their children to pray, for their innocent
prayers would do much for this people. 
	Sister Bird expressed her gratitude that she
lived in this day and was numbered among
the Saints, and her desire to be ever faithful 
to the cause of truth. 
	Sister Ann Odell of Ogden, spoke of her
joy in being associated with the sisters; alluded
to her having been President of a Primary As-
sociation for six years, and felt grateful for 
that experience; exhorted the sisters to be 
faithful to God's cause and He would protect 
us to the end. 
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson gave good advice
to mothers in regard to bringing up their
children, and advised them to be wise and
cautious and watchful of what they said, and
pray for our brethren. 
	Sister Lawson bore a faithful testimony and
expressed her gratitude for God's care over the
Saints: Sister Friel also bore her testimony. 
Sister Richards related an anecdote that would
be well to teach the children. 
	Coun. S. M. Kimball said, we are truly liv-
ing in perilous times, and while I feel that the
Lord "doeth all things well," we must fit our-
selves to meet whatever may come to try us. 
We will each be tested that we may prove our-
selves before God.  Made many other good re-
marks. 
	Coun. E. Howard spoke of the word of wis-
dom, and urged the sisters to observe it. 
Thought we should be wise in our conversa-
tion; gave very good instruction to the young
girls in regard to truth and virtue. 
	Sister Smith, Sister Jones and other sisters
spoke a short time, and meeting adjourned for
two weeks.  Singing, "The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning," etc.  Benediction by Sister
Julia Howe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE. 

EDITOR EXPONENT: 

	As it has been quite a length [-]f time since
there has been a word from Manti, I thought
I wou[-]d improve the present opportunity of 
writing you a few lines. 
	The Saints, generally, manifest increased de-
sires to go forward in the great and glorious
work in which we are engaged, notwithstand-
ing our enemies are on the alert trying to bring
to naught that which our Father has decreed


He will bring to pass in the day in which we
live.  I often think how true was the saying of
our Divine Master to His disciples, and also
how true it is in our day, that if we were of the
world the world would love us.  But history
repeats itself, and it is the same now as it has 
always been when the Lord has had a people
on the earth.
	I sometimes think that it cannot be that we 
are living in this great and glorious Republic
—the land I have loved so well, the home of
my ancestors for generations past, even to the
earliest settlement of New England.  When I
was a little girl my greates delight was to hear
my grandfathers tell tales of the Revolution,
for they were both engaged in that great strug-
gle for liberty for their land; they also told me
of the great rejoicing throughout the land
when the war was over, for they fondly hoped
to leave the pricelss boon, for which they had
endured so many privations, to their posterity;
but to-day, when I reflect upon the situation of
my country, I feel that we, as mothers and
grandmothers, should tell the story of our
wrongs to our children and granchildren; yes,
let us tell them of our troubles in Missouri and
the sorrows of Nauvoo—how we were forced to
to leave our homes and the beautiful temple
which we had reared under such difficulties, as
only those who were there can realize or under-
stand.  Our beloved Prophet and Patriarch
had been massacred, and that, too, under the
promise of protection of the Governor of
Illinois. 
	We know and realize that the special care of
our Father has been over His people, and we 
have faith in Him for the future, that the
beautiful Zion which the old prophets had so
much pleasure in contemplating will be built
in her beauty and glory, when the oppressors
shall cease to oppress.	R. W.
	Manti, Feb. 21st, 1885.


OLD FOLK'S PARTY AT BLOOMING-
TON.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking a few lines from this part of the
country would prove acceptable, I will give you
a short account of our annual old folk's party,
which was held on the 4th of February; in the
Bloomington schoolhouse. As is usual with
these parties, it proved a decided success. At
2 p.m. seventy-five or eighty persons sat down
to an excellent dinner prepared by members of
the Relief Society under the direct supervision
of our much respected bishop, Wm. Hulme,
and our beloved president, Sarah Greenhalgh.
We were honored on the occasion with the
presence of the Presidency of Stake, Wm. 
Budge and J. H. Hart, also the Stake Presi-
dent of Relief Society, J. P. Lindsay, Elizabeth 
Collins and L. M. Hart.
	The meeting was opened as usual by singing 
and prayer, then a roll was called of those who
had attained the age of fifty years and up-
wards. Two, I am grieved to say, have de-
parted this life since our last gathering. Min-
utes of previous meeting were then read and
accepted, after which we had a very interesting
programme, consisting of songs, speeches and
dancing, we also had the pleasure of listening
to most interesting and instructive remarks by
the brethren and sisters of Stake Presidency,
also from our veteran brethren and sisters. I
think I should be correct in saying not one left
the house but felt blessed and comforted by the
meeting.
	With best wishes for the success of our pa-
per, I beg leave to subscribe myself, your sis-
ter in the Gospel.
	E. C. PIGGOTT, Sec.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortmant of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

Home-Made Silks!

Home-Made Silk Dress Goods, Ottomans, Gros-
grains, Brocaded and Plain Satins and
Grenadines; also Handkerchiefs,
For Sale at MANUFACTURERS' PRICES, by
MRS. B. P. MUSSER,
Second House South of Silk Factory, Canyon Road:

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

