VOL. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1884.	NO. 11.


TO PATRIARCH L. D. YOUNG.
	ON HIS SEVENTY-SEVENTH BIRTHDAY.
				______

Another year’s short journey nearer heaven!
And this bright Sabbath you are seventy-seven.
	I know what most you prize
Of all the birthday gifts that may be given–
The love that speaks from honest lips and eyes.

In stately halls of grandeur and of splendor,
Fond, loving voices, ever true and tender,
The sweetest music make
On heart chords, oft so delicate and slender
That harsh, rough tones their fibres chill and break.

And in the lowly, modest, quiet dwelling,
Where love's bright springs are ever softly welling,
And often bubble o'er,
No other sounds so dear as these when telling
	Of joyous increase to their bounteous store.

Love hath no bounds, its increase is forever;
If pure new ties cannot the old ones sever,
But all together grow
Brighter and stronger each for each, and never
Will one its own true value sink below.

This subject is to me sweet and cheery,
I might go on, still on, and ne'er grow weary,
But time will not suffice;
In all your future days may nothing dreary
	Becloud the sunshine of the love you prize.

Another year’s short journey nearer heaven I
Count all together now, the seventy-seven,
A journey-long, but blest,
In which the Gospel light to thee is given,
And love of truth–of all goods gifts the best.

I offer nothing more than this small token,
Wherein of all best things I've briefly spoken;
But this I can foresee,
Thousands whom you have blest, a chain unbroken,
Of love links seal with gratitude to thee.
						LULA.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 19, 1884.


[Column 1]
	EPISTOLARY FRAGMENT

	I feel there is fine material in you, and there
fore my interest and sympathy is called out be-
cause, permit me to say, it will require wisdom
to properly lay it out for your own comfort
and exaltation in the Church and Kingdom of
God. Mormonism, so called, is so entirely dif-
ferent to any thing else we have met in our
former life, that we are apt to think we are in
a clear path, where soon we find we have to
walk cautiously or before we are the least
aware we are entangled in a mesh not easily to 
be disentangled. Pardon me, if you think my
words gratuitous, I have the best and most ap-
preciative feelings for you, but I am older than
you, both in age and in the Church, and I
simply give you portions of my experience and
that which I have found to answer my highest
ambition and expectation. All conquerors
have had to "stoop to conquer" in some way or
other; they have had tact, which is more than
talent; they have been close observers of their
surroundings, and deep thinkers; they have
walked cautiously, calmly, humbly, it is only
the great who can stoop, the opposite have no-
thing to stoop from, they have no platform;
people of large heart and brain have a natural
platform born with them--they are a constitu-
tion and an institution in themselves. Ponder
my words before you dissent or decide; then I
think you will realize truth in them to your
entire satisfaction.
    Let me tell you I read in you a character of
[Column 2]
no mean order--but for that very reason it will
have to be developed, slowly, cautiously, unless
some unforeseen event were to call you out. I
consider the way in which you have begun
your Mormon life in Utah is good, and you are
now sowing seed that will form a foundation
for a grand superstructure. Foundations are
always constructed out of rough, unpolished
materials, such as are powerful to endure and
bear up the superstructure. Therefore do not
be discouraged if you find these materials su-
perabundant in your present path of life; keep
your eye upon the grand edifice yet to be re-
vealed.
    Woman's sphere is extending and expand-
ing all over the world, even in obscure coun-
tries there is the same movement, but it must
needs be of slow growth because of its long
inertia and because of its mighty sequel. The
curse so heavily laid upon woman and so pas-
sively borne until a second nature has been
engendered and she believes it is to be--but
there has long been a class of women upon
whom the spirit of restoration has been work-
ing silently, unknown even to themselves in
the first movement, but nature and circum-
stances (generally severe ones) brought their
minds to a certain focus not before arrived at
by women, and they became almost impercep-
tibly leaders for their sisters in a more expan-
sive state of things; by their agency the yoke
became lighter--lighter, and now the move-
ment has become universal. Good, noble,
strong-minded men are assisting "strong-mind-
ed," but womanly women to gently but un-
sleepingly throw off the yoke of servile bondage
of long and dark ages, in which woman has
been but a "chattel" in her husband's house;
and an era of light, liberty and happiness is
dawning upon that half of God's creation
who have borne the yoke and the suffering
even to martyrdom--martyrdom of maternity
added to the list--all these long, dark centur-
ies, and she will awake one fine morning and
rise up an unfettered being, bound only by the
law of God and her own pure nature; those
awful words and their still more awful mean-
ing: "Thy desire shall be to thy husband and
hs shall rule over thee," will have been can-
celled, because the curse is fulfilled and the
judge opens the door and bids the captive go
free, and she walks forth a free, unfettered being
as in her primal advent in the garden of Eden
--she will then feel her dignified responsibility
and will lay aside the frivolity that has so often
disfigured her, and which has generally arisen
from the very feeling that somehow she was but
an outlaw in her Father's house, where He
had intended her to live as the free, unfettered
co-partner of her brother, man. In a great
measure she is to be her own agent in this re-
form movement, always seeking and having the
Spirit of her God to guide and direct her.
There are, and there have always been women
who have led out in this effort of restoration of
God's daughters to their primal position on
His earth--their names are famed in history's
page, though probably they understood not the
spirit then agitating their minds, but they were
loosening the bands setting "gates ajar," till in
our own era we joyfully note names that would
fill a catalogue--to numerous to mention,
and no need to name them--all leading minds
know them as household words, all these have
been helpers in the restoration of woman to
her primeval grandeur of character and posi-
tion. And now comes the Latter-day Saint men


A MORMON WOMAN’S VIEWS.
				_____

	My ideas upon plural marriage are all based
upon religion.  I only accept it as a revelation
in its most sacred phase.  Mormon women
accept plural marriage as a principle of faith,
as conscientiously as they accept baptism; and
many of them have had powerful and direct
testimonies from heaven in regard to its being
correct doctrine.
	To enter practically into this holy order of
matrimony it is absolutely essential to be de-
voted soul and body to the establishment of
the Church of God upon the earth.  Religion
must be dearer than all things else, and one
must be capable of exercising great faith in
God and live nearer to Him in the strictest
sense of the word, for it necessitates laying all
upon the altar to embrace it.  The life to come
must be ever kept in view; we do not live so
much for this little interval of time here, but
to attain to an existence which is everlasting,
where progression will be eternal, and where
there will be no limit, to increase, and the ex-
altation will be glorious beyond all, “For eye
hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor hath it en-
tered into the heart of man to conceive.”
	Such marriages for time and for all eternity,
with so much at stake are in very deed a sacra-
ment, as all marriages should be.  It is the
most holy and sacred relation that unites man
and woman together, and demands from each
the highest and truest form of love, that love
which is founded upon principle, not impulse,
for feelings must not be allowed to control the
actions of life, but principle must be the ruling
power.
	It is only those who are pure-minded and


whole-souled who will endure the responsibili-
ties, trials and temptations incident to this pe-
culiar order of marriage, because the actual
existing circumstances are such as to require
almost constant self-discipline and unselfish
consideration for the feelings of others. This,
however, will, if persevered in, eventually re-
sult in a higher spiritual development, for the
best emotions and affections will be brought in-
to constant exercise—patience, long-suffering,
gentleness, forbearance, meekness, and that
sweet charity which teaches us to do to others
as we would wish them to do unto us, and to
love our neighbor as our self.  We have been
taught that love is selfish, that it creates jeal-
ousy, but the highest and best form of love is
that which is capable of the greatest sacrifice
for the good of another. Women who coven-
ant to live in plural marriage must be deter-
mimed to respect each other’s rights and privil-
eges and not infringe in any degree upon each
other, and must teach all the children to ob-
serve the same principles, in order to preserve
order and harmony, which must exist in the
home and family, or the spirit of the Lord and
of peace could not abide in the habitation.
	There is one other great advantage to women
in this peculiar order of marriage beside the
higher spiritual elevation, and this is the
strength of character which is necessarily de-
veloped. When there are several wives, or even
two, we will say, women are left to depend
more upon their own judgment and to take
more fully the charge of their own home and
affairs; this brings into requisition many latent
powers in woman’s nature, which would, under
other circumstances, have lain dormant, and
she finds herself capable of being something
more than a plaything, or a hot-house plant—
she becomes in a great measure the head of her
own household and the intelligent companion
of her husband. She naturally feels a posi-
tive pride in rendering herself equal to the
position, and is consequently relf-reliant, dig-
nified in character, and capable of great moral
heroism.
	This sort of compulsory education makes
women better mothers and more efficient in
the training and governing of the children, in
which so many mothers are sadly deficient.
The first principle in the management of child-
ren is self discipline. It is utterly useless to
attempt to control others when one has not ac-
quired the habit of self-control,and it is through
the lack of this self-consciousness that so many
fail in family government.
	There, are many good reasons both in nature
and in Scripture that might be brought for-
ward to prove that the practice of plural mar-
riage is consistent, as well as right and proper.
A special command has been given, and there
are circumstances and conditions that required
this change. In the very beginning, at the
creation, the first commandment given by our
Father, was, “Be fruitful and multiply and re-
plenish the earth.” Those who are at all ac-
quainted with physiology know that man’s
capacity for increase is unlimited, while with
woman it is entirely different.
	Again, when God blessed Abraham he sim-
ply said to him, “Thy posterity shall be as the
sands upon the seashore,” which was the great-
est bles ing he could bestow. There are many
other p usages in the Bible that would help to
substant  te the doctrine of a plurality of
wives, ou ve find many people who will not
accept Bio e evidence, but prefer the living
oracles, and to them no better explanation
need be given than the existing state of society,
to show that some purifying element is needed.
Men and women of the world acquainted with
the statistics of large cities testify to the cor-
ruptions that abound in them, and talk of edu-
cation and moral suasion and Christian influ-
ences being brought to bear to remedy the pre-
vailing sins of the age. But the muddy and
corrupt stream flows on still, and the few re-
formers who are, as it were, agitating the
waters seem, powerless to change the nature of
the stream in its present course. But suppose
a small part of that large stream was turned
into another channel, and an effort made to
purify it, would it be so very difficult? Rea-
son tells us no! We can all comprehend this
sort of method, and this is the way in which
the Lord intends to purify a people here upon
the earth. He has marked  out a plan by
means of which, those who will come out from
Babylon and separate themselves and partake
not of her sins, may escape the plagues and
cleanse themselves from the evils that exist,
and are increasing in the world. God’s ways 
are not as man’s ways, and when He marks out
a plan, that is the only path to be pursued in
order to attain the desired object.
	The evils that are undermining the social
structure of modern society baffle the skill of
the learned and the eminent, and the wisest
savants of the age find no sure remedy, nor will
they accept the plan marked out by the Proph-
et of God any more than would the people in
Noah's day believe him, when he was sent to 
warn them; they  must therefore abide the con-
sequences of their unbelief.
    "Custom rules us all," is an old, but true
saying. Monogamy has been so extensively
practised that tbe change to plural marriage is
like tearing down an iron wall, which requires
skill and wisdom. Men and women rave about
polygamy, as it is termed, and its evils and so
on, and if there is one woman who happens to
be dissatisfied or in any way neglected or mis-
treated consider it a sufficient pretext to make
a law to prevent the practice, while hundreds
and thousands of women are every day suffer-
ing abuse, neglect, scorn, and going down into 
untimely graves through the excess and 
wickedness of men in the world, and  it is the cus-
tom of the country. How true it is that men
seek to "pull the mote out of" another's eye
when a beam is in their own.
	One argument often used against plurality
of wives is that there is nearly an equal num-
ber of each sex born. The answer might be
many more males die from various causes, the
labors they engage in, wars, life upon the sea,
etc. But again, thousands of men never do
and never will marry, while almost every
woman inclines to marriage; it is inherent in
her very nature, and having no opportunity
for marriage, we see  thousands of women
who cannot fulfill the primeval law of their
creation. There are, of course, many points
to be considered in this connection.
    There is no limit to this subject, but in con-
clusion we will repeat what we said in the be-
ginning; we accept it in its sacred phase as a 
divine revelation,and believe it to be the con-
dition that will raise a higher standard of
morals for society, and will ultimately result in
removing the curse pronounced upon woman in
the garden of Eden, knowing that God's ways
are not as man's ways, and that "He knoweth
best" what will redeem mankind from the evils
which they have been subjected to in the past.
						MORE ANON.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING.

	The daughters of the Dean of Westminster
are preparing a book upon the Abbey, which
will be ready during the present autumn.

	Two more French ladies have received the
diploma of bacheleures-es-lettres:  Mddles Hele-
na and Marie de Vacasseo.  Three others have 
received the title of bacheleures-es-sciences:
Mddles. Revella, Liegust and Havest.

	A statue to a woman has been unveiled re-
ently in New Orleans.  The first erected to a

[Column 2]
woman in the United States.  It is to Margar
et Honhgery, who devoted her immense wealth
to the care of orphan children.

	Reports of the recent summer Matriculation
Examination at the Melbourne University state
that twenty lady candidates passed from Mel-
bourne, seven from Ballarat and three from 
Landhurst.

	Signora Carla Serena died lately at Athens.
She was born in Venice and educated in Ger-
many.  She was a woman of great literary
ability as well as grandly benevolent.  Shortly
after commencing to write for the press she be-
gan to travel, visiting Scandinavia, Greece,
Constantinople, Russia, the Caspian Sea and
Persia.  In this latter place she spent a winter
and was once arrested as a spy and under a 
strong gaurd conducted to the frontier, not-
withstanding her letters of recommendation.
Her journeyings were so charmingly written
that they appear like romances, so says the
Gazette de Torino.
	The titles of her book published in Paris are
"From the Baltic to the Caspian," "A Europe-
an Lady in Persia," "Men and Things in Per-
sia," "Alone in the Steppes," and "Excursion
in Abhasia" (on the Black Sea).  She pos-
sessed great courage and fortitude as a travel-
er, and it is said that finding no photographs
representing the Caucasus, the scene of her
book, she bought a complete photographic ap-
paratus, packed it off by mail to Tiflis and
from thence on the back of a mule and traveled
herself again through the country, taking pho-
tographic sketches, with which she returned tri-
umphant to Paris.
	
	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, author of "Beyond
the Gates," has another new book just out,
"Dr. Zay"—this book is said to be the most 
fascinated one written by this celebrated au-
thoress and poet.  "Dr. Zay is a strong, sweet
womanly character."  "Women look upon her
as a tower of strength."

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has been selected by
the managers of the world's fair that is to be
opened in New Orleans in December, to pre-
side over the department of woman's work, and
has established her headquarters of the World's 
Exposition at New Orleans, at No. 5 Park 
Street, Room 10, Boston.  Mrs. Howe requests 
all connected with this work throughout the
country to communicate with her at once, and
also requests the press of the United States to
give this notice the fullest publicity, as the time
is very short.

	Women took out patents during the week
ending September 30, 1884, as follows:
	Emma G. Munn, Vassar, Mich., Heat- Indi-
cator for ovens.
	Mary M. Wagner, Baltimore, Md., Combined
bureau and bedstead; also combined folding 
bedstead and table.
	During the week ending Oct. 7, 1884, the 
following patents were granted to women:
	Nancy J. Langley, Boston, Improved Grid-
iron.
	Maria L. Mathews, Neward, N. J., Fruit
Press.
	Harriet W. Strong, Oakland, Cal., Device
for raising and lowering windows.—Ex.


The next annual meeting of the American
Woman Suffrage Association will be held in
Chicago, the third week in November.

	On the 4th of November the great national
question, who will be elected to the highest
office in the land, will be decided—and the
People’s Party in Utah will also decide an im-
portant matter by electing with an overwhelm-
ing majority Hon. John T. Caine to the 49th
Congress of the United States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿	HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

		[Concluded.]
*		*		*		*		*
And then ere many weeks had passed,
Again on Helen’s boy was laid
A wasting fever’s cruel power.
	O, just as keen the mother’s fears
As o’er the helpless child she prayed
	As though he knew her love and tears.

For in the mother’s heart there grew
For him, bereft of reason, more
Of watchful care and sympathy
	Than all the rest combined possessed;
Through the dark pall his spirit bore
	She loved him more than all the rest.

And, clinging to him, holding back
The life that blankly lingered here,
And pleading but to keep him still
	Within her loving care;
He awakened, and she turned to hear
	More than the answer to her prayer.

For e’en as fever’s blight had cast
His mind in gloom and silence long,
So the same strange and wond’rous power
	Consumed the fetters and restored
Freedom and light and reason strong,
	In the due season of the Lord.

“Mother,” he whispered—oh, her face
So lighted up with wond’ring joy
As she leaned o’er and took his hand;
	“Mother, have I been sick? Don’t go
Out of the room and leave your boy;
	It seems so strange here, I don’t know

Where I have been, or how I’m here.”
She searched his eyes, their look was bright,
He answered back her trembling kiss
	And raised his feeble arms as though
To clasp and keep her in his sight,
	Then fast her joyous tears did flow,

And kneeling by his couch’s side
She held him to her throbbing breast;
And, as they were alone with God–
	“Father, it is Thy power, I know,
For Thou hast heard my prayers and blessed
	My soul with joys that overflow.”

A step drew near; she raised her hand—
“Dear wife, may I not join you yet
And share the vigils of your love?”
	Then something in her face he saw,
And in the eyes his question met,
	That filled and thrilled his soul with awe.

And as their son looked up to him
The wond’rous miracle he learned
And knelt in gratitude with her.
	“Dear wife, it is thy soul’s reward—
Our dear child’s reason has returned
	To him by favor of the Lord.

“Mine eldest son, my firstborn hope! 
Through him the Lord thy spirit proved;
Thou didst not blame or vainly mourn,
	But bore in patience His decree,
And on the altar—faith unmoved—
	Brought down His blessing upon thee.

“For love thou gavest Virginia’s child
God hath restored to thee thine own,
Nor moved him from his birthright’s place.
	For this Thy mercy we renew
Onr covenants before Thy throne,
	While here on earth, Thy will to do.”

Like some sweet music, rapturous, new,
Virginia the glad tidings heard,
And hastening to Helen’s side
	Saw in the boy’s changed, gentle face,
A look that all her being stirred
	And made the room a ascred place.

Oh, happier than ever now
The blessed days and weeks went on,
For gratitude made blest content.
	Each felt the other’s soul to be
One which from God Himself had drawn
	Approval that all Saints might see.
*		*		*		*		*
Row above row the lights flashed out,
The music hushed, a pause, and then

[Column 2]
A prelude strangely sweet stole forth,
	Half dreamy waltz, then as some bird
High soaring over hill and glen
	Till in the clouds the last is heard.

And while the echoes scarce had died
The singer came; their greeting bore
Not welcome only, but their praise.
	Oh, grandly beautiful she stood,
And cadence, and expression wore
	A pathos that no heart withstood,

Virginia’s eyes grew large and dark,
Her tender face still paler grew,
And as the strange, sweet singer, rapt
	In harmonies all but divine,
Poured out her soul, one hearer knew
	A dying life inspired each line.

Virginia followed tone by tone,
She knew the weariness and woe; 
And when the wav’ring figure passed
	From sight she said: “Take me to her,
I knew her once, not long ago;”
	Her husband rose without demur.

Almost too late, for marble like
The earth worn singer fainting lay,
Alone, afar from home and love;
	Virginia stood beside her, then
Found strength above her fears to say:
	“Signora, do we meet again?”

A thrill passed o’er the weary face.
The lustrous eyes looked up to see
The gentle speaker. Radiant joy
	Illumed her face “Virginia—thou?
Virginia—never more leave me,
	For thou art all I cling to now.”

She sang no more. They brought her home,
And in the few fleet days they learned
The lovely wanderer’s hapless fate.
	The phantom love that lured her on
To faithlessness, neglect, had turned
	And hope and strength at last were gone.

“Teach me thy faith, Virginia, now 
What thou doth cherish I receive;
Teach me thy peace and hope so sure;
	My babe again? and linked with thee?
Reason and love thy words believe—
	I wait thee in eternity.”

So died Honora in her arms,
And soon the sacred work was done—
The ordinances for the dead;
	And unto him she loved she gave
The dear and lost, the gifted one
	Resting at last within the grave.

Oft through her sleep came holy dreams,
And waking hours their meaning brought,
And threw a light on sacred lines;
	And whether in that dearest place,
Her home, or where her footsteps sought
	The poor and sorrowing, her face

Grew sweeter, nobler, year by year.
Time wrote fresh truths on her soul’s page, 
Adding that royal mien which comes
	To those who teach, and lead, and bless.
Until more beautiful is age
	Than even youth’s own loveliness.

And while through daily scenes she passed. 
She listened for the “still small voice”.
And closer sought God’s mysteries.
	Counting no sacrifice as loss,
But in its offering to rejoice,
	As fires that burn away the dross.

Adown the waking hours of night
Grand intuitions softly came
Of earth’s and heaven’s futurity.
	And through long hours with prayer alone,
Around her swept the holy flame,
	And wond’rous glories there were shown.

No savant’s love so deep as this—
No gems so rich and joy so sweet—
And naught so poor as this vain life.
	Like one who but prepares to go,
Yet first each duty would complete,
	These lines my pen has striven to show.

And these are “Mormon women." Seek
Through every vale where Saints abide,

[Column 3]
Like faith and purity are there.
	Though waves of hate and death may roll,
They cannot quench God’s light, nor hide
	His pathway from each martyr’s soul.

And when these lines of mine are read,
How many there will be who’ll say,
"I did not think she knew my life!”
	For oh, this story is the fruit
Of one grand Tree whose strength to-day
	Finds in ten thousand homes its root.

“Bearing such love as theirs?” Ah, yes,
I meet and find it everywhere;
Dearer than life, more strong than death;
	I recognize it as the sign
Of that which Gods and angels share—
	A portion of the Love Divine.

And now, dear friend, if I have used
My truthful pen not all in vain'
And you would wish to further search
	Still other points we hold as well,
O may some abler pen make plain
	Their truth and beauty. So, farewell.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, 1882.


A PLEASANT GATHERING. 

Monday evening, Oct. 20th, the Y. L. M. I.
A. of the Eleventh Ward, held their annual 
meeting and gave a dinner in the Assembly
Rooms of that ward, Mrs. Mary Freeze presid-
ing. There were present the Presidency of this
Stake, Angus M. Cannon, Joseph E. Taylor
and C. W. Penrose; also Bishop McRae and
Counselor Robert Morris; Sisters Clara C. Can-
non, Maggie Y. Young, E. B. Wells, H. M.
Whitney, Nellie Colebrook and Martha H.
Tingey.
 There was a very fine programme after din-
ner. in which the young ladies who took part
did themselves great credit. The historical
sketch from the Bible by Miss Sampson being
especially good. Miss Tucket’s lecture on
health and Miss Ciclia Colam's essay were
well written and very appropriate. The 
singing by Miss Maggie Freeze was pleasing
and made an agreable variety, and the other
recitations and essays were a success. In fact
the whole programme was tastefully arranged,
and the manner of rendering merited praise,
as well as the promptness with which each one
responded.
 Remarks were made, suitable to the occasion,
by the sisters first, followed by the brethren.
It was a pleasant and social affair, and much
good instruction was given by the speakers,
calculated to encourage and promote the growth
of the association.


NOTES AND NEWS.
				______

	A woman suffrage convention will be held in
Lexington, Ky., Nov. 5 and 6, under the aus-
pices of Mrs. Mary B. Clay, of Whitehall, Ky.,
president of the American Woman Suffrage
Association.  Mrs. Gougar and Mrs. May
Wright Sewall,of Indiana, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Boynton Harbert, of Illinois, are among the
speakers.—Ex.
	Woman Suffrage is being discussed in the
Normal Institutes in Iowa.  Two Hundred
teachers in Des Moines, offer a discussion of
the question, decided in favor.  P of. Akers,
State Superintendent of Public Instruction,
said recently in a lecture, “The equal citizen-
ship of women is coming—coming rapidly—
and no man can stop it!”  The sentiment was
highly applauded.—Ex.
	“A monument in the shape of a simple obe-
lisk bearing the relief portraits of Dr. Martin
Luther and his Katie—“Dame Zolsdoerferin,”
as he was wont to call her—was recently erec-
ted on the site of the homestead in which she
passed the years of her widowhood.”


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
______________________________________________

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: [-]ne copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each s[-]uare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: pe[-] month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.	
EXPONENT Office, in brick building north of Z. C. M.
I., East Temple Street.  Business hours from 10 a. m. to
5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City Utah.
______________________________________________

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, 1884.


﻿THE LATEST SENSATION.
				______

	Salt Lake has certainly had a sensational
topic during the past few weeks in the Clawson
trial.  The principal persons and most of the
witnesses summoned were people so well known
and so highly respected that the feeling and
sympathy have been most intense in relation to
the matter.
	The daily papers have had plenty of items to
make their columns attractive, and the tele-
graph operators have had  a good supply of regu-
lar messages to transmit over the wires.
Judges, lawyers, prosecuting attorneys, mar
shalls and their deputies, have all been exces-
sively busy; indeed it was the general remark on
the street, when one met a friend, “Have you
been served with a subpoena?"
	The trial was fraught with the deepest inter-
est, not only to the immediate friends and per-
sonal acquaintances of the defendent, but to the
Latter-day Saints generally, and the anxiety
has not lessenad in regard to the result.
	The lawyers employed for the defendant
made some very able speeches, and if these are
read by the people generally they will get a
more correct idea of the true status of the rights
and privileges that are to be observed in all
cases, and of the justice to which every indi-
vidual person is entitled.  We should be glad
to publish the speeches of Lawyer Bennett and
the Hon. F. S. Richards, but our columns are
not sufficient, but we advise all the ladies who
have not read them to read them carefully.  Our
sisters should take care to inform themselves in
regard to public matters, the transactions of
courts, the empanneling of juries, and while
having the franchise know something of the
government, its executive and judicial power
and authority, and not be deceived as to the ex-
tent of power an officer holds.  As, for instance,
to believe contempt of court is felony and simi-
lar things.
	Rudger Clawson is a young man born and
raised in this community, exemplary in his
life and conduct, moral in every respect, not-
withstanding all the cruel and wicked asper-
sions cast upon him because he believes in
plural marriage, and has conscientiously ac-
cepted it practically.  He is a devoted Latter-
day Saint, and has been from his boyhood up.
He proved his valor for the truth when in
Georgia at the time Elder Standing was shot
down by the mob, and he no doubt accepts the
Savior’s words in their full meaning, “Fear not
him who can kill the body, but fear him who
can cast both soul and body into hell.”  God will
watch over his people continually, and will de-
liver them from the hands of the wicked and
ungodly, although some may have to suffer
from the oppression of their enemies, yet will
He make the wrath of man to praise him, even
as He hath said so it shall be.
	Rudger Clawson is one of those who would
rather die than prove unworthy the cause he
has espoused, or untrue to his integrity as a
Latter-day Saint.
	And, after all, what will be gained by his con-
viction?  What honor or glory will it be to any
man or to the Federal Courts of Utah Territory?
They know very well that he married Lydia
Spencer conscientiously, believing it to be a
solemn obligation and no doubt considering all
the consequences it might involve, yet bravely
trusting in divine power, and praying for infi-
nite wisdom to direct him aright.  There is no
doubt a time will come when men will find that
there are graver and more serious difficulties to
adjust than the family relations of the “Mor-
mons.”  But for the present they gracefully
submit to the powers that be, ever hoping and
anticipating the good time coming, when jus-
tice shall be meted out to all, and then “Mor-
mons” will have as many rights allowed them
as other citizens of this great commonwealth.


﻿NOVEMBER ELECTION.

	It may be the opinion of some that this elec-
tion is not an important one because they feel so
sure of the strength of the People's Party. But
has it not always been the case when large
masses of people have been confident of
winning that the minority have come in and
carried off some of the honors. Not that the
Liberals could have any particular power at
present, but it is most unbecoming in the Peo-,
ple’s Party, under the present circumstances, to
be found luke-warm. To be up and doing and
each one at his post with the watch word “be
ye always ready," should be the aim of the
People’s Party at this most momentous time.
Young men and women should consider it not
only a duty, but a pleasure to go to the polls
and vote, for it is for them and their interests,
more than for their father’s and mother’s, that
they should be valiant. It is well for them if
they have had the necessary instruction and
discipline. Some are too lackadaisical for their
own good, and forget that it is the duty of each
individual to represent him or herself by the
ballot. The candidate, John T. Caine, is a man
of whose life and character not even his bitter-
est opposers can say anything disparaging,
and the People’s Party may well be proud of
such a delegate. There is every reason why he
should have the largest number of votes it is
possible to poll. The young people who are now
called upon more particularly to take the greater
responsibility ought to be up and awake and
seek to maintain the rights of the people of
Utah, that the citizens, who are now disfran-
chised, laid the foundation of and made it easy
for them to build, upon. Let no opportunity pass
wherein you can show your integrity to the
People’s Party. It would be culpable indeed in
the young women as well as the young men if
they do not come out and vote on this grand oc-
casion. The privileges of this people are few
enough already, but by all means maintain those
few with dignity, and prove yourselves deserv-
ing of more by your diligence and vigilance in
every place where there is an opportunity. Let
the Utah delegate go to Congress with the as-
surance made doubly sure, by the enormous
number of votes cast for him, that he is not
only the choice of the People’s Party, but that
they are ready to accord him all honor, and
prove their confidence in him by their works as
well as words.


[Column 1]
			EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THERE will be a rally of the People's Party in
this city on Monday evening, Nov. 3rd, at 7
o'clock, in the theatre in this city.

[Column 2]
	SISTERS M. I. Horne and H. M. Whitney at-
tended the Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake, held at East Bountiful,
Oct. 27.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Eighth Ward had
an interesting time on Wednesday, the 29th. A
meeting and sociable to which many guests
were invited. These re-unions are calculated to
create a good feeling and promote harmony in
the work of improvement.
	We gratefully acknowledge a beautiful bou-
quet of choice late flowers, which came like a
sunbeam, from Mrs. Jane Holt of East Boun-
tiful; also some pretty, sweet-scented wild
flowers and gaily colored Autumn leaves, from
little Caroline Crocheron.
	THE semi-monthly meeting of the Senior Re-
trenchment Association was held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 18th, Coun.
S. M. Kimball presiding. The meeting was
well attended and the remarks and addresses by
the ladies were very interesting, so we are in-
formed, but as we were not able to attend and
have not seen the minutes, we cannot give a
proper report to our readers.
	Miss Mabel Sherman Crawford, who vis-
ited this city recently, spent a morning in our
office, and we had a most interesting interview.
She is an ardent advocate of woman's suffrage,
and is one of the leading women of the suffrage
party in England. She has landed estates in
Ireland, and gave us considerable information
upon the condition of the people in the Emer-
ald Isle. She is liberal and philanthropical in
her character and views, in a brilliant conversa-
tionalist and has traveled extensively.
	A MEETING of the People's Party was held at
Provo on the evening of Oct. 29th. The brass
band met the delegate and his party at the
depot and escorted them to the place of meeting,
where a large crowd were waiting. Opening re-
marks by Judge Dusenberry; John C Graham,
Chairman. Speeches by Hon. John T. Caine,
and James Sharp. The meeting was an en-
thusiastic one, and will, undoubtedly, be pro-
ductive of good, and induce many who are dila-
tory to turn out and vote at the coming election.
	"The Golden Gems of Life," or "Gathered
Jewels for the Home Circle," is the title of a
book now being canvassed for by Mrs. S. M.
White of this city. The book contaius 608
pages, is printed on tinted paper in large, clear
type and handsomely bound. the subjects are
such as recommend the book even before read-
ing it, and the essays, for such they seem to be,
are well written, simple in language and clear
in style, and adapted for home life. The sub-
jests first treated upon are Life, Home, Home
Circle, Father and Mother, Infancy Childhood,
Brother and Sister, Manhood, Womanhood, and
so on. It is decidedly a very good book, and one
from which much may be learned, and it ought
to have a wide circulation. The Editors are S. C.
Ferguson and E. H. Allen, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Morocco and gilt binding, $5.75; silver finish
cloth, $4.75; half morocco, $4.50; green cloth $3.75.
   Mrs. Emimy Pfeiffer, poet and author,
lately visited Salt Lake accompanied by her
husband. They remained about four days here,
seeing the places of interest. Mr. and Mrs.
Pfeiffer are both interested in woman's suffrage,
and the lady has written several articles as well
as poems upon the subject, that have attracted
some attention and been the subject of consider-
able comment in London society. Mrs Pfeiffer
writes for "The Spectator" and "Contemporary
Review." Her books have all gone through two
and some through three editions. The titles
are, "Gerard Monument," "Poems," "Quarter-
mass Grace," "Glan Alaeck," "Under the As-


pens,” “The Rhyme of the Lady of the Rock,”
a poem of two hundred.'and fifty pages—
“Sonnets and Songs.”  Mrs. Pfeiffer is much in-
terested in the subject of dress reform, enter-
taining the view that the, present style of dress
Is neither healthful nor graceful.  She was much
impressed with Sister Eliza R Snow Smith;
thought her a most remarkable character, and
expressed her admiration of the woman and her
wonderful work.


_____________________________________________________________________________________

								WOMEN'S EXPONENT.							

_____________________________________________________________________________________


A ROUSING MEETING AND STIRRING
				SPEECHES.

			COALVILLE, October 28, 1884.
	A large and attentive audience greeted Hon-
John T. Caine and party here last night, and
everybody was well entertained by the eloquent
addresses of the speakers. Every speaker was
the recipient of an unusual amount of applause
from the enthusiastic audience, which indicated
that they concurred with the speaker in the
ideas which were advanced, and the rebukes
administered upon the illiberal Liberals.
	John T. Caine delivered a most interesting ad-
dress, which gave evidence of diligent historic-
al research, and which was interspersed with
most profound logic. It showed how utterly un-
just it would be—if not unconstitutional—for
Congress to delegate the power of making the
laws for this Territory to a legislative commis-
sion; to abolish our Territorial form of govern-
ment and place our lives and our destinies in the
hands of a few grasping spoliators; to deprive
150,000 loyal American citizens of the right of
local self-government.  He cited authorities
from adjudged cases in the United States,and
quoted English history to support him in his
arguments. He ridiculed the remark made by
Ransford Smith, in Ogden, on Saturday last, to
the effect that he (Smith) would “excoriate”the
Democratic party for refusing to adopt a resolu-
tion offered by him last June in the Democratic
convention at Chicago, and particularly em-
phasized Smith’s proviso, '‘If I had time.” Mr.
Caine thought it would be really amusing to
witness Mr. Smith’s attempt to “excoriate”such
men as Benjaman F. Butler and Speaker Car-
lisle,and sympathised with him because he had
not the learning to support his pedantry nor the
bravery to support his egotism.
	Mr. Kenner mentioned how curious it was that
Ransford Smith, in his bombastic oration in
Ogden, had so carefully avoided the point at is-
sue—politics—but had been guilty of consider-
able plagiarism by quoting what could be found
in about five hundred law books, defining poly-
gamy and showing that there was little distinc-
tion between a principal and accessories to a
crime. He spoke of how the majority polled by
the People’s Party in each succeeding election
constantly increased notwithstanding the op-
position of the Liberals. He thought the Liber-
als had receded from point to point until there
was nothing left, but the name, and that was a
mi[-]nomer; and that ephemeral party would soon
pass "where the woodbine twineth.” He won-
dered if Mr. Smith would court like a woman,
for Smith said he would'do it “like a man,” and
wanted to know If Mr. Smith thought there
were nineteen women who would have him if
he did believe in polygamy.
	The addresses by the other gentlemen were
much shorter, as the lateness of the hour pre-
vented a very lengthy discussion of the matter
by all parties.
	Mr. Dusenberry explained how unjust the
Liberals were to accuse the people of Utah of
nullifying the laws simply because they deemed
it prudent to appeal from the decisions of some of
our mission judges in Utah.
	Mr. Sloan showed how  the diligence, and
hardihood of the Mormons had built up and de-
veloped Utah, and said it was all owing to their
peculiar religious system, which bound the peo-
ple together by ties of brotherly love.
	Mr. Sharp wondered how it was that Ransford
Smith admitted that he knew nothing of the
Mormon religion nor polygamy, but still pro-
ceeded to discuss both in a very scientific way.
	The audience was well pleased with the meet-
ing, and went home with a determination to
"wake up," as Judge Dusenberry said. The
Coalville brass band was present on the occasion
and played the “Swanee Ribbar” three times to
“ the attentive assembly.—EX.
						THUCYDIDES.


ADDRESS.

BY THE PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL CENTRAL
COMMITTEE.
TO THE PEOPLE OF UTAH TERRITORY:
	The election to be held Nov. 4th, 1884, for
Delegate to the Forty-ninth Congress, is one of
unusual importance and political significance to
the people of Utah.
	At no time since the organization of the Ter-
ritorial government has there existed stronger
reasons for an unequivocal manifestation of the
full strength and influence of the People's party.
The friends of free government find themselves
to-day, as in years past, opposed by an unscru-
pulous revolutionary faction composed, it is true,
of an insignificant minority of our population,
yet seeking by the establishment of a Legisla-
tive Commission to subvert and abolish the
forms of free government and wrest from the
people the last semblance of political liberty.
That faction whose only achievements in the
past has been to seek by misrepresentation and
slander to blight the fair face of Utah with a
pestilence worse than death, now has the un-
blushing effrontery to invoke your suffrages for
a candidate who stands upon a platform dedica-
ted to the proposition that you are unworthy the
boon of suffrage. A candidate who seeks by
the vote of his  fellow citizens to obtain power to
deprive them of the right to vote is certainly an
anomaly in American politics, and the idea is
peculiarly characteristic of the minority faction
in this Territory.
	The election of 1882 for Delegate to Congress
was rendered conspicuous by its being the first
under the operation of the Edmunds law; and
notwithstanding the disfranchisement of a
large portion of the People's party, the candi-
date of that party was elected by an almost un-
precedented majority and the opposing faction
nearly demoralized, as manifested by its recent
feeble effort at reorganization.
	We call your attention to the fact that the is-
sues are the same to-day as they were in 1882,
viz: the perpetuation of free government in the
hands of the majority as against the establish-
ment of the worst form of despotism in the
hands of the minority. The candidate of the 
People's party has been tried in the position and
has proved himself adequate to the discharge of
every duty and responsibility pertaining thereto;
he was unanimously nominated for re-election
by a regular convention of the People's Party; it
is therefore our duty to elect him by an increased
majority in proportion at least to the increase of
population since 1882, and at the same time ad-
minister again a terrible rebuke to the cham-
pions of despotism and the enemies of free gov-
ernment.
	By the People's Territorial Central Commit-
tee.

JOHN SHARP, Chairmen,
THEO MCKEAN, Secretary.
Salt Lake City, October 24, 1884.


SALT LAKE CITY HOSPITALS.

	MTS. B. SPURLOCK..

	“For whosoever shall do the will of my Father
which is in heaven the same is my brother and
sister and mother,” prompted me to seek out
those whose hearts were tender and true to suf-
fering humanity; that I might clasp hands with
them and whisper a word of comfort to those
whose keeping was entrusted to their care in
this city.
	First in course I came to St. Marks Hospital,
well governed methought, for “immediately”
was the watchword of the writer of that most
positive epistle that bears his name. Here we
found the kind, intelligent gentlewoman, Mrs.
Prout, in the keeping of the same, who has giv-
en direction and carried it forward for years.
Everywhere an atmosphere of comfort and
quiet and continuous attention is to be observed.
The inmates were cheered at my coming, and
I realized the truth of the wise man’s proverb,
“It is more blessed to go to the house of mourn-
ing than to a house of rejoicing.”
	Next I visited the “Hospital of the Holy
Cross.” This name, too, is talismanic, and no
misnomer, wide spreading gronnds beautifully
designed, and a magnificent building, delighting
the eye of the passer-by and cheering the in-
coming patients. Here “Sisters of the Sacred
Heart,” are moving up and down the commodi-
ous halls, in and out of the wards with noiseless
tread. Prayerfully I trow, administering to the
wants of others, in the name of the immaculate
Lamb of Calvary, who gave His life a ransom
for earth’s perishing millions. I thought the
ministry of theirs was God-like and these will
have an abundant entrance to the city that is
eternal.
	Third, and last in our course, came the “Des-
eret Hospital,” “A rock in a weary land,” a
Bethel on the plains beside the sea.
	Here we find the old Deseret University con-
verted into an “infirmary,” giving to its in-
mates large, airy rooms, well arranged and a de-
lightful ventilation. An air of home-like feel-
ing greets you on its very threshold; the kind-
-hearted, sweet-faced matron, “Sister Jones,” al-
ways greets you with a warm welcome. The
patients are in the main ladies, and among the
number are some that are aged, but their hearts
are young and tender with love's beautiful touch
of perennial spring, gladness and patient endur-
ance. Young mothers are there that must
needs come from afar to have medical skill not
possible at home; but the gentle, efficient care
that they there receive shortens the hours and
brings the loved ones at home near by, even
though the crib is rocked by other hands than
“mama's,” and hushed by other “lullabys” than
“Hush my babe.”
	This Hospital is under the medical advise-
ment of a young talented Miss M. P. Hughes,
M. D. She is a graduate of a three fold diplo-
matic inheritance; by dint of almost unpreced-
ented study and indefatigable energy. She
staggers not at the most difficult clinical or sur-
gical work of the Hospital. she has at this
time a case of the most intricate and complica-
ted hip joint disease, which she is handling with
marked ability and satisfaction. It is certainly
very complimentary for one of her years and
brevity of practice.
	Closing I will say of these homes for the af-
flicted: They have no holidays of “red tape,”
exhibit. I have been there in the morning early,
at noon time high, and at dusky eve; and have
ever found the same watchful vigilance and
tender care being evinced. Parting from one of
the present patients, just as we were taking our
departure she beckoned us back and said: “Oh
they are so kind to us here; we are treated just


like queens.” To those who keep away from
these homes of suffering, I would say you rob
God of your power to cheer and comfort others
and lose the—“inasmuch as you have done it
unto the least of these you have done it unto
me.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VICTORIA'S SPEECH.

	By foreign telegram we learn Parliament re-
assembled October 23rd,the Queen's speech open-
ing the session.

"MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN:

	I have brought you together to enable you to
further consider the great subject of representa-
tion of the people. I continue to maintain rela-
tions of amity with all foreign powers. Infor-
mation from Soudan includes painful uncertain-
ty, but the energy, courage and resources con-
spicuously displayed by General Gordon in the
successful defense of Khartoum deserves my
warm recognition- The advance of my troops
to Dongola has for its object the rescue and se-
curity of that gallant officer and of those who
have so faithfully co-operated with him. I am
using my best endeavors in Egypt to promote
the further improvement of affairs there. I
have given my support to the Egyptian govern-
ment in the difficult financial position in which
it was left through the failure of the recent con-
ference. I regret the occurrence of the Trans-
vasl difficulty, and am considering, with the
Cape government, means to secure the observ-
ance of the convention.

GENTLEMEN OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS:

	The operations in the Soudan render it neces-
sary to ask of you farther pecuniary provisions.

MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN

	The bill for the extension of the Parliamen-
tary franchise will be at once introduced.  May
the blessing of God attend your labors.


PATTY SESSIONS.
[Continued.]
Looking over the diary kept by Sister Ses-
sions of her journeyings from the State of
Maine all the way up to Missouri in 1837, I
found many interesting items, but to attempt to
give them here would occupy too much space,
but I noticed one or two things that transpired
in Missouri that I thought proper to mention.
She says that on the 7th of January, 1838,
Elder Lyman Wight and Father Morley
preached, and in the evening there was a bless-
ing meeting, and her husband, herself, Peregrine,
Julia and Slyvia, her children, received a pa-
triarchal blessing under the hands of Father
Morley. She writes again on the 4th of Feb-
ruary that she is 43 years old; says, “Father
Morley came down and held a blessing meeting
at Bro. Daniel’s last night, preaches here to-
day.”
	Sister Sessions carries her babe to the meet-
ing and has it blessed according to the order of
the Church. She writes, “I rejoice that I live
in a day when the gifts and blessings are res-
tored and ordinances attended to as in days of
old. 25 th. To-day we go to the city to hear
Joseph the Prophet preach. April 6th go to
the city to the anniversary meeting; 14th make
a visit to Joseph Smith; 21st Sylvia was mar-
ried to Windsor P. Lyon, Joseph Smith per-
formed the ceremony. David W. Patten was
here when Sylvia was married and preached,
while here, at Peregrine’s. The next day the
Prophet was there and a good time it was.
Last Sunday we went to hear Brigham
Young, it being the 29th day of April.”
	During all this time we find Sister Sessions
performing daily household duties and attend-
ing obstetrical cases regularly. Very frequently
one sees in her diary entries like this: “Rode
twelve miles last night, put Sister ---- to bed,
fine boy, etc. --rode six miles and put Sister ----
to bed with a pair of twins, difficult case, se-
vere labor, but the Lord blessed us and we got
through all right, patient safe, etc.” July 16
Sister Sessions says Peregrine started for the
East, a journey of about two thousand miles,
left us all well; the middle of August we all
were taken sick with fever and ague. Nov. 1
Far West surrendered and we were ordered by
the government to leave the State of Missouri;
29th of Nov. Peregrine returned home from
the East. February 15 we leave our home and
calculate to leave the State, get to Branch
Creek the first night in company with Bros.
Burnham, York, Pack, and all our families.
16, go to Tinney’s Grove; 17, get on to the 20
mile prairie; 18, get to Thomas’ tent; 19, get to
Henry Ashley’s, go into the house and get
some coverlets;  *  20, go through
Keatsville, tent at night; 21, go through Hunts-
ville, tent again; 22, go to Mr. Grimin’s,stay in
the house; 23rd go to Rayland’s, stay in a
house, it rains and we stay over Sunday, the
24th, find the folks very accomodating; 25th
go on and find very muddy roads, tent out;
26th still muddy, and we have to tent out, cold,
wet and inclement, no shelter but a tent, a sick
babe and no comforts. Trust in God and pray
for courage and endurance. 27th, roads very
bad, but we reach the banks of the river and
find many of our brethren and sisters encamped
on the bank that cannot get across. Have got
a very good place for tenting, but the wind
blows hard; it is cold and there is some snow
falling. There is no crossing with a ferry boat
now, the river is full of ice.”
	March 1st 2nd and 3rd, according to the
journal, continues much the same. She speaks
of visiting a sick child, and of the child dying.
She was sent for far and near in times of sick-
ness for advice and assistance.
	The 5th day the Saints began to cross over
to the other side. The 6th, ice almost out of
the river. The 7th, the wind blew fiercely,
making it difficult to cross. On the 8th
Windsor and Sylvia cross the river; Julia was
taken sick, bnt on the 9th Bro. and Sister Ses-
sions and family go over and stay all night at
Quincy. The 10th they go on, and Julia be-
ing very sick they are obliged to stop and have
the Elders administer to her. The days are
much the same, they move on a few miles at a
time, and meanwhile Sister Sessions takes the
ague, and both herself and her daughter Julia
are very ill.
	On the 14th they arrive at Carthage, find a
house to go into. About the first week in
April, after one or two more changes, they
move into a house of their own.
	On the 27th of June her son Peregrine
started east on a mission in company with Bro.
McArthur and Bro. Jackson. On the 2nd of
May, 1840, the family move to Nauvoo, and on
the 2nd of June Peregrine returns from his
mission. Bro. Sessions builds a house, and
in September of the same year they move in-
to it.
	The next event of importance Sister Sessions
has recorded in her diary is the death of her
little daughter, the babe she brought in her
arms from Missouri in the middle of winter.
She died with croup. This seems to have been
a heavy affliction for the fond mother, but she
prays for strength and grace, and she has left
in her diary these precious words, “The Lord
giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed be
the name of the Lord.” The little one was
three years, six months and one day old
	On the 11th of June, 1842, Bro. Sessions
started for the State of Maine with Bro. Pack.
She writes: “He left me alone, and I am very
lonesome.” That was Saturday, but the next
day she went to meeting and Orson Pratt

[Column 3]
preached in the morning and she was refreshed.
In the afternoon there was a temperance lecture
by a Mr. Miller, and G. Bishop and Wm.
Marks spoke. From this time she seems to
have been more busy than ever with her pro-
fession. She speaks of visits from Bro. Joseph
and Bro. Willard Richards, and on the 18th
she says Joseph spoke concerning Dr. Bennett
and cut him off the Church.
	On the 23rd Sister Sessions speaks of attend-
ing “theFemale Relief Society,and on the 24th,
went to see the Masons and hear an oration.
On the 25th, went to visit Mother Smith. 26th,
went to meeting and heard Brigham Young
preach in the morning and Bro. Cahoon in the
afternoon.” On the 4th of July she speaks of
the parade, and on the 7th she went to the Re-
lief Society again. Again on the 10th went
to meeting and Bro. Woodruff preached. On
the 23rd of July Sister Sessions writes in her
diary, “Mother Smith was here to visit me,”
and on the 24th went to the Relief Society and
signed a petition to send to the governor of the
state.” This was the first petition of the Relief
Society, and it was then quite an event in the
history of women.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			PANGUITCH.
Editor Exponent:
	The young ladies of this place held their an-
nual election on the 5th of the present month,
at which the following officers were sustained
for the ensuing year: Mrs. Elizabeth Sevy,
President; Sarah Houston and Alice Clark,
Counselors; Miss Eva Crosby, Secretary and
Treasurer; Miss Christie Henrie, Ass’t Sec.;
Miss Minnie Sevy, Corresponding Sec,
	A visit from some of the visiting sisters from
Salt Lake would be much appreciated.
			Respectfully Yours,
					MARY H. SEVY.

	PLEASANTON, NEW MEXICO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Because we live in an out of the way place
we do not wish to be forgotten by our brothers
and sisters in the northern country. We have
a very pretty place here. We have nice
farming land, where we can raise anything
that is planted; there is, also, a large, beauti-
ful stream of water running on the west side
of the valley, and on the ease side of the valley
is a large range of mountains, which are called
the Moggoblon.
	We have a Relief Society, which was organ-
ized in 1883, with its worthy President, Lu-
cretia Maxwell, and her Counselors, Jane Max-
well and Almeda McClellan. Our Relief So-
ciety consists of nineteen members. We also
have a Y. M. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tion.
	The only objection I have to this place is
that we are thrown tod much under the outside
influence; but if we will strive with the sincer-
ity of our hearts the blessings of the Lord will
be poured out upon us, and we need not walk
in darkness; we who have made covenants to
keep the commandments of God to the best of
our abilities need not go astray. I remain,
Your sister in the Gospel,
				LILLIAS S. MAXWELL.

		WASATCH STAKE.
Conference of the Relief Society of the
Wasatch Stake of Zion was held in Heber
City Hall, Sept. 28th, 1884. On the stand
were President Emma Brown and her Counsel-
ors; also several of the brethren.
	Our conference being held on the Sabbath
day we had a very large attendance. The
choir favored us with some of their sweetest


songs, which made our meeting a very enjoy-
able one. Prayer was offered by Bro. Hicksen.
Minutes of last conference were read and ap-
proved. Written reports were read, which
showed the Society financially in a very good
condition. The Presidents of the several wards
gave in very favorable reports. Sitsers Rich-
ards and Taylor were with us, which made our
meeting more than usually interesting.
	Sister Richards, in her quiet, loving way,
gave us the very best of counsel; to mothers
in particular, to see after their children, their
daughters, to know where they are and who
they are associating with.
	Sister Taylor said without the Spirit of God
she would be unable to say anything to benefit
her sisters. Said we should always attend our
meetings if possible; we would feel better, and
make better wives and better mothers. Never
allow our children to be taught by those who
are not of our faith. Said we should try and
improve ourselves that we may become good
financiers.
	Sister Brown spoke a short time, felt to thank
the sisters for coming to visit us, and hoped
the sisters would profit by the good counsel
they had received. Singing, “God moves in a
mysterious way,” etc. Benediction by Bro.
John Murdock.
	MARY BRONSON, Sec.

	PIMA, ARIZONA
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ladies’ Quarterly Conference of this
stake convened at Pima, October 3rd, at 10
a.m., President Willmirth East presiding.
Singing. Prayer by President C. Layton.
Singing. Minutes and reports read and ap-
proved. Verbal reports were then given by
the presidents of their respective wards. 
	President East then addressed the conference.
Some of the most important subjects treated
upon by her were punctuality to be observed
in the society; mothers to teach their children
to be honest and to attend to their prayers; en-
courage home industry in all its branches; that
we honor the principles of celestial marriage,
and discourage speaking lightly or holding in
derision that sacred principle. Said we live
in an eventful period, and that we should pre-
pare ourselves, for the trials that await us re-
quired us to be humble and prayerful. In-
structed the sisters to note the date of sub-
scribing for the EXYONENT, so as to be pre-
pared to renew the same when due, and to try
and encourage the circulation of the paper.
Spoke very encouragingly to the sisters on the
subject of storing grain.
	President Layton was the next speaker.—
Expressed his pleasure at meeting with the sis-
ters in a conference capacity; also in hearing
the reports of the different branches of Relief
Society in the several wards; asked us to be
kind to the poor and administer to their wants,
and comfort those who are called to mourn.
Invoked the blessings of God upon us.
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. Benediction by
Mary L. Ransom.
	2 p.m. After the usual opening exercises
the local officers were presented before the
conference and sustained. The time was then
devoted to the Y. L. and P. A. in hearing re-
ports, and instructing the young upon the
principles of their religion. Closing remarks
by a sister, who had lately come from Salt
Lake City, who said she had attended a great
many conferences, but had never heard more
important subjects treated upon than those in-
troduced by the presiding board during the
conference. Dwelt upon the subject of faith
as being one of the leading features of our re-
ligion.
	Conference adjourned to meet at St. David,
Friday, January 2nd, 1885: Benediction by
Patriarch McBride.
	LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.

	BY HELEN MAE WHITNEY.

	(Continued.) 
	The father of Zebedee Coltron died in our
camp on the night of the 31st, also another
man who had traveled with Dr. Patten.
	On the evening of September 1st Brother
Woodworth and family arrived; all sick. They
encamped outside ofthe square a little distance
from our tent. We had a temporary bedstead
prepared and took their daughter, Flora Gove,
into our tent, where I nursed her until she re-
covered her strength. Her husband was also
sick with fever; she had lain helpless for many
days, and her heavy raven locks were so matted
together that it took me hours to comb them
out. We had lived neighbors in Nauvoo, and
were old schoolmates. She was older than my-
self and was sealed to the Prophet Joseph as
his wife. This happened before I was aware of
the principle. A young man boarding at her
father’s, after the death of Joseph not a mem-
ber of the Church had sought her hand, in
time won her heart, and in a reckless moment
she was induced to accept his offer and they
eloped to Carthage, accompanied by a young
lady friend,and were there married by a Justice
of the Peace. Flora was never happy with
him as he hated the Mormons, and she felt
condemned for the rash step she had taken.
She made this confession to me while I was
nursing her, and said she desired to cling to
Joseph hereafter.
	They settled at the “Point,” and she paid me
a visit the following winter. She still expressed
herself as strong in the faith of the Gospel,
also her great desire to cleave to the Prophet.
I never saw her again as she died at that place,
leaving two or three children. Joseph Smith
gave her father the title of “Pagan Prophet.”
He came with his family to the Valley, where
he left them and went to California and never
returned. Her mother was a true saint and a
very gifted woman, well known and respected
by thousands of the saints in Utah. 
	I have given this little incident in the life of
Flora truthfully, and it ought to teach a lesson
to those who read it, for no Latter-day Saint
can find happiness in marriage with an unbe-
liever as soon as the illusion which bewildered
them wears off; they find no true companion-
ship, and remorse will come, though, alas, too
late to retrace their steps.
	On Monday the 31st Horace mentions Pres-
ident Young, H. C. Kimball, Bishop Whitney,
Fathers Cutler and Cahoon and several of the
High Council, some on horseback, others in
wagons, starting up the river to look out the
winter location. Tbey traveled 25 or 30 miles
the first day and encamped on the “Horn.”
The next morning they retraced their steps
toward the old Fort of Council Bluffs. Com-
ing to a creek they had to make a bridge, “af-
ter crossing which, instead of ascending the
ridge on the right hand, they kept on through
the bottom, which was covered with very high
grass, which soon grew so thick that they got
entangled in it and were forced to cut a pas-
sage in some places; it was so high, too, that
they could not see over it, although they stood
up on their horses. After pursuing this route
for some time in momentary danger of getting
“swamped,” they at length emerged from it
and went upon the bluff, which was so steep
that they had to dismount from their horses
and let them ascend by themselves.  
	They saw the “Fort” in the distance, apparent-
ly about six miles off—they soon came to an-
other brook or ravine, where they were again
obliged to build a sort of bridge—throwing in
stuff of different kinds that they might be en-
abled to cross. The sun was about an hour
high when they arrived at the “Fort," which
consisted of the ruins of a few old buildings

[Column 2]
the principal of which was the “Magazine”—
the walls were of stone, about eight feet high,
which had formerly been arched over with
brick, but had mostly fallen in—they went on
about a mile further and encamped for the
night at the head of a ravine. 
The next day they returned home but little
satisfied with the result of their journey.”
	On the same day Horace says, “A commit-
tee of three, viz.: Orson Pratt, J. M. Grant
and Brother Bird were sent to confer with the
Omahaws and the Otoes concerning our remain-
ing on the land here.”


LETTER FROM MRS. STANTON.

	TO THE WOMANS’S JOURNAL, BOSTON

	The right of self-government for one half
the American people is the-most momentous
and important question that this nation was
ever called on to consider;—a question so vital
and far-reaching in its consequences that the
life or death of all political parties, the success
or failure of all other issues, are as nothing
weighed in the balance with it. And for the
reason that not one single question affecting
the interests of humanity can ever be satisfac-
torily settled, until we have the united thought
of enlightened men and women in its read-
justment. We cannot bring order and har-
mony out of our present chaotic conditions un-
til the masculine and feminine elements are in
exact equillibrium. Thus far in the history of
the race, the masculine element has dominated,
giving us governments of force, religions of
terror, and social conditions of slavery. Our
work is to exalt the feminine element, to re-
store a normal womanhood, and by education,
higher development, and moral power, help to
mould the state, the church, and the home, on
sound principles of justice and equality.
	There is great fear expressed lest with en-
larged liberty woman will “unsex herself.”
That is exactly the difficulty under the pres-
ent restrictions. The mass of our women are
nothing but faint echoes of men, accepting un-
questioned their systems of government and
jurisprudence, the absurdities and dogmas of
of their different forms of religion, and all
their various theories of social life, according
to the latitude and longitude in which they
were born. Hence, in trying to build up a
normal type of womanhood, we are compelled
to overcome the prejudices of centuries, the
hostility of man to any invasion of his author-
ity, and, worst of all, the apathy and indiffer-
ence of woman herself. The majority of
women could not be more thoroughly “unsexed”
than they are to-day, moulded by the mascu-
line idea, and guided,by the masculine will.
The world still waits for a grand type of true
womanhood to be born.
	But while working faithfully to this end, we
must avail ourselves of every opportunity for
popular surface work, whenever, however, and
wherever it can be accomplished. For this
reason, political parties, in Presidential cam-
paigns, are of some service to us for purposes
of agitation. At such times there is a gen-
eral revival of the interests of the people in
questions outside the usual routine of their
daily lives, hence it is important for reformers
to wave their banners from the most conspicu-
ous point of view; to issue their protests, ap-
peals, and letters of acceptance, as they get a
circulation and hearing which cannot be se-
cured at any other time. Thus, wholly inde-
pendent of their intrinsic merits, they serve
the purpose of a widespread agitation of their
ideas of government.
	Some of us have been arraigned for advis-
ing the members of the National Association
to “stand by the Republican party.” Knowing
full well that all the parties and nominees alike


have other questions nearer their hearts than
woman suffrage, it matters not to us whether
it is protection, prohibition, finance, or labor,
so long as our question in not primal. Hence
our choice is the Republican party, as it has a
grand record in the past for noble deeds and
words, and in its ranks we find the largest
number of statesmen favorable to our move-
ment.  Then, too, we have a small craft an-
chored in their harbor, "with something to tie
to,” and fair promises of protection.  If we 
cannot trust the republican party, which has
a local habitation and a name, where shall we
look?  We cannot follow the independents, for
they have not told us what they believe, or
whither they are going.  The Prohibitionists
may prove a myth, as they always have done
when the time came for voting.  The constit-
uents of the working-men’s party make up
the rank and file of the large majorities that
have gone dead against woman suffrage in
every State where the proposition has been 
submitted. As to the Democratic party, it
has had no policy or leaders for a quarter of a
century, Now it would be folly for us.  with
our little craft (in the shape of a special com-
mittee, a 16th amendment, and a bundle of
petitions), to go forth on the great ocean of un-
certainty, to trust to Cleveland, Butler or St.
John to throw us a rope in time of danger.  if
any of them found their vessels too heavily
laden for a Presidential campaign, no doubt
woman suffrage would be the first part of the
cargo to be thrown overboard.
	Now we have had a narrow contracted little
state room for many years on the Republican
ship, with such men as Anthony, Sargent, Lap-
ham, Hoar, Blair, and later, Reed, Taylor,
McLoed and Bunne, to give us ever and anon
some crumbs of comfort.  Humiliating as our
position is, it is better than to be thrown over-
board to the fishes.  There is every reason to
suppose the Republicans will cling to us, aud
hold us in reserve, as the next best card to
play.  After having turned the negro into
every possible shape, made all the capital they
can out of him, the women, in the order of
Providence, must come next; and it is not the
interest of the Republicans to preserve our
lives until that hour comes.  If, in this gen-
eral disintegration of parties, a new one shall
arise with a solid woman suffrage plank in its
platform, it will be time enough for us, when
we see its battalions forming, to get ready to
march in its procession.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Moroni, Sept. 28, 1884, Christiana, beloved
wife of Neils Christensen.  Deceased was born July 10,
1833, in Denmark; baptized by Andrew Jensen Sept. 18,
1855; emigrated with her family to Utah in 1857.  She
was the mother of twelve children.
	She leaves a husband, eight children, an aged father
and numerous brothers and sisters, and eleven grand-
children, to mourn her loss.  She was an affectionate
wife, an indulgent mother; was faithful to the princi-
ples of the Gospel; was an efficient member of the Relief 
Society, holding the office of first counselor for sixteen
years.  She was a kind friend to the poor and a constant
visitor to the sick.
	Her remains were conveyed to the meeting house, the
Relief Society following in procession, where the funeral
services were held.  Several of the brethren made ap-
propriate remakrs, aided by the Spirit of God, comfort-
ing the bereaved family.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
Adopted by the Relief Society of Moroni:
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Chris-
tiana Christensen;
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father, by the
hand of death, to take from us our beloved sister, we
bow in humble submission to the divine will of the Al-
mighty God.  We realize in her death we have lost a
friendly adviser and wise counselor.


Resolved, That we treasure up her past efforts in
teaching us the principles of the Gospel,  and that we
emulate her worthy example.  
	Resolved, That a copy be spread upon our minutes, 
and one presented to the bereaved family. 
	JANE BAILEY, President, 
	MARY H. DRAPER, Secretary. 
	SARAH JOLLEY, 
	DEBORAH P. IRONS, 	Committee. 
	SUSAN CHRISTENSEN, 

	LINES BY SISTER JANE BAILEY. 

Not long ago she filled her place, 
	A counselor good and wise, 
But she has run her mortal race, 
	And lives beyond the skies. 

Sleep, O sleep, beloved sister, 
	Until the morning trumpet sounds; 
You'll awaken from your slumbers
	And receive a heavenly crown. 
LINES WRITTEN FOR THE CHILDREN OF THE DE-
	PARTED SISTER CHRISTENSEN OF MORONI, 
	BY ROSE ELLEN WHITE. 

Children, mourn not for your mother, 
	For her home is now with God, 
But strive to follow in her footsteps, 
	And hold fast the "iron rod." 

She has filled her earthly mission
	And is wanted up above
To continue in good labors
	Where there is but peace and love. 

Then bow to God and ask for comfort, 
	And that blessing you will gain; 
For your mother's in His keeping, 
	And is free from earthly pain. 

Children, mourn not for your mother, 
	Even though 'tis hard to part, 
For you'll meet again in heaven
	And joy be great within each heart.


RESOLUTIONS OP RESPECT.

	To the memory of Maria J., wife of Bishop J. E.
Booth, who depared this life October 7, 1884, in Provo
City:
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit, in His Al-
wise providence, tn call from our midst our beloved sis-
ter,!
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Fourth Ward
Relief Society, recognize in the death of our beloved and
honored President the great loss of an able and efficient
officer, a very devoted Saint and co-laborer in the cause
of truth.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with her bereaved husband and family in the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife and mother.
	Resolved, That we cherish her memory and regard her
virtues as ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be entered in the
Relief Society record; also that copies be presented  to 
the bereaved family and printed in the Territorial En-
quirer and WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	M. M. WATSON,
	D. M, MEECHAM,	Committee. 
	A. SMART, 	
Those who have lived and suffered
	Within the Gospel pale
Ne’er feel such hopeless pain for those
	Who drift behind the veil.
We loved Maria for her worth,  
	Her meek and gentle ways;
We loved her for her willingness
	To serve God all her days.
Sweet soul! too pure to longer dwell
	Beneath the chastening rod;	
Although we mourn, the whisper comes,
	“She’s gone to dwell with God.’


[first column]
	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[second column]
For Sale at this Office.
	BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,		25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c.		"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1		-	$1.00	"
		Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50		"

		HOME PRODUCTIONS.
	When the Ladies of Utah can procure an article of
merit which is made here in our midst is it not their
duty to at least give it a trial?
	Especially so when it costs no more than foreign
goods, and is guaranteed to give entire satisfactions.
	MESSES, SMITH, & CASE of Salt Lake City are now
							engaged in the manufacture
and introduction of the
	"Way Up" Baking Powder.
	As a guarantee of good faith they agree to refund
the money for every can sold which does not give
Complete Satisfaction.
	Ask your grocer for "WAY UP," and accept no
other. If you r groceryman does not have it tell him to
write to
					SMITH & CASE,
P.O. Box 504.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

		ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.
				Z.	C.	M.	I.
			SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
		IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
	DRY GOODS, NORIONS, GROCERIES,
		HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
			GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
					MENTS,
			CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
		PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
	CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
		GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
		We carry a larger and more complete
	Stock than any house in the west.
			H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
						in
	LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
		FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
			RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assortment of
			DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

FAuerbach & Bro.
		A Full and Complete Stock of
			MILLINERY.
		Spring and Summer Goods,
			AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
			CALL AND EXAMINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

To Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

