THE FAMILY DOCTOR SHOP.

Paste this up for reference in case of emergency.
	Nearly every person knows what to do in
case of injury, or sudden sickness, but it often
happens that under the excitement attending
such circumstances they become confused, and
forget all they know about it. The following
suggestions might be pasted up on the inside of
closet or bookcase door, where they could be
referred to promptly:
	Swallowing saliva relieves sour stomach.
	If children do not thrive on fresh milk, it
should be boiled.
	Hot, dry flannel, applied as hot as possible,
for neuralgia.


[Column 1]

	For nose-bleeding bathe the face and neck
with cold water.
	Tickling in the throat is best relieved by a
gargling of salt and water.
	Sprains and bruises call for an application of
the tincture of arnica.
	For bilious colic, soda and ginger in hot
water. It may be taken freely.
	If an artery is severed, tie a small cord or
handkerchief tightly about it.
	Pains in the side are most promptly relieved
by the application of mustard.
	For cold in the head nothing is better than
powdered borax snuffed up the nostrils.
	Nervous spasms are usually relieved by a
little salt taken into the mouth and allowed to
dissolve.
	Whooping-cough paroxysms are relieved by
breathing the fumes of turpentine or carbolic
acid.
	Broken limbs should be placed in natural
position and the patient kept quiet until the
surgeon arrives.
	Chlorate of potash dissolved in water is a
standard remedy for sore throat, particularly if
the throat feels raw.
	Hemorrhages of the lungs or stomach are
promptly checked by small doses of salt. The
patient should be kept as quiet as possible.
	For pains in the chest or stomach, as much
Dover's powder as will lie on a silver five-cent
piece.
	Sleeplessness caused by too much blood in
head may be overcome by applying a cloth of
cold water to the back of the neck.
	Sickness of the stomach is most promptly re-
lieved by drinking a teacupful of hot soda
water. If it brings the offending matter up,
all the better.
	Wind colic is promptly relieved by pepper-
mint essence taken in a little warm water.
For small children it may be sweetened. Par-
egoric is also good.
	For stomach cramps ginger ale, or a half-tea-
spoonful of the tincture of ginger in a half-glass
of water in which half a teaspoonful of soda
has been dissolved.
	A strong solution of bicarbonate of soda
(baking soda) taken freely is a reliable remedy
for diarrheal troubles, particularly those aris-
ing from acidity of the stomach.
	A teaspoonful of ground mustard in a cup of
warm water is a prompt and reliable emetic
and should be resorted to in case of poisoning
or cramps of the stomach from over-eating.
	Powdered resin is the best thing to stop
bleeding from cuts. After the powder is
sprinkled on, wrap the wound with a soft cotton
cloth. As soon as the wound begins to feel
feverish, keep the cloth wet with cold water.
	For burns, sweet oil and cotton are the stand-
ard remedies. If they are not at hand sprinkle
the burned part with flour, and wrap loosely
with a soft cloth. Don't remove the dressing
until the inflammation subsides, as it will break
the new skin that is forming.
	A strange antidote for poison by dew, poison-
oak, ivy, etc., is to take a handful of quicklime,
dissolve in water, let it stand half an hour, and
then paint the poisoned parts with it. Three
or four applications will never fail to cure the
most aggravated cases.
	Avoid purgatives and strong physics, as they
not only do no good, but are positively hurtful.
Pills may relieve for the time, but they seldom
cure. The pill-taker's latter end is always
worse than his first condition. Stomach bitters
are a snare, and only create a desire for stimu-
lants.
	Indigestion is the prolific cause of colics,
diaarrhoea, headaches, constipation and many
diseases of the bladder. Food that is not
digested becomes powerfully acid, causing irri-
tation and inflammation wherever it touches.
Many fevers are caused by it. Pepsin is the
best remedy, if taken immediatly after eating.

[Column 2]

If pepsin is not taken, the acidity should be
controlled by bicorbonate of soda or potash.
	Eat only such things as agree with you, and
not too much at a time. By heeding the warn-
ings of your stomach many doctor's bills, and
even undertaker's too, may be avoided. Shun
feasts and big feeds. Give children plenty of
milk and bread, Graham or oatmeal crackers,
and good ripe fruit. They will not only thrive
on this diet but keep healthy.
	In every house there should be a little nook
in which a few simple remedies are kept.
Among them should be extract of ginger,
Dover's powder, peppermint, chlorate of potash,
bicarbonate of soda, sweet oil, paregoric, cam-
phor, arnica, a bottle of pure whisky, cotton, old
muslin for bandages, some sticking-plaster, a
box of ground mustard and some ready-made
plasters. Always strike a light when you go to
get any of these in the dark, and be sure you
have the right one.
	An observance of these suggestions will pay
well for the trouble.—Sparta Herald.


