EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Annual Conference is near at hand, and
it will probably be one of the most interesting
and remarkable Conferences that has ever con-
vened. The important era of time in which we
are living will make an impression upon every-
thing connected with the Latter-day work.
There is no doubt but the people will make a
great effort to assemble from all parts of the
Territory.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, who has been for
the past six months in New York City attending
the medical and surgical clinics at Belle Vue
Hospital, and the Woman's Hospital of the State
of New York, is on her way home and is expected
to arrive about Apr. 1. She will commence a class
in Midwifery Apr. 17th. The course of instruc-
tion will be practical and thorough and those
desiring to join the class will please send their
names to the Exponent Office as soon as pos-
sible in order that books may be procured in
time. Tuition $30.00 Books $12.00.
	Henry W. Longfellow, the poet, departed
this life on Friday evening March 24th, his com-
plaint was inflammation of the bowels. His
name and fame are widely know both in America
and Europe. His funeral was held at his resid-
ence in Cambridge on the 27th, and was at-
tended by many of the literati. The services
were conducted by his brother the Rev. Samuel
Longfellow. Memorial services were held in
Harvard College the same evening. This great-
est of American poets was born in Portland,
Maine, Feb. 27, 1807. As a boy he distinguished
himself in literary pursuits and at fourteen en-
tered Bowdoin college and graduated with honor
in 1825. Fifty years after in l875—a grand reun.
ion of the old professors and classmates was held
at Bowdoin college and Longfellow was the poet
laureate of the occasion, the poem entitled
Morituri Salutamus was pathetic and artistic.
Evangeline, Hyperion, Hiawatha, The Golden
Legend, and The Spanish Student are among
the most popular of his writings. He lived just
three quarters of a century, but his works are
immortalized as are those of every true poet.
	ON Friday March the 17, was the Fortieth

[Column 2]

Anniversary of the organization of the Relief So-
ciety in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith,
it was also the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Elizabeth H. Goddard of this city, and the
two anniversaries were kept at Sister G's. house
in an appropriate manner. The invited guests
assembled at three o'clock p. m. and at four
o’clock sat down to a bounteous repast. Bishop
M. Attwood prouounced the blessing. The only
gentlemen present were Bishop Attwood and
Bro. G. Goddard, but there were twenty or more
representative ladies. After supper all assembled
in the parlor and the question was asked, how
many were there in the room who were present
in Nauvoo at the first organization, when it was
found there were only two, Sisters Sarah M.
Kimball and Bathsheba W. Smith. Several
others there had been members of the Society
but not present at the organization. Sisters
Kimball and Smith related some incidents re-
lative to the subject, and Sister Phebe Woodruff
gave a chapter from her experience, Sister M. I.
Horne also spoke of the many trying scenes
through which she had passed with the Saints.
Sister Kimball read from the diary of Joseph
Smith his views concerning the Relief Society,
its object and the manner in which the meetings
should be conducted.
	The evening was spent in intelligent conver-
sation upon the principles and practise of the re-
ligion of the Latter-day Saints and all felt the
day had been a pleasant one. During the even-
ing Bro. Goddard, and others sang some favorite
hymns. Sister Goddard may well be satisfied
with the day, for although it was stormy with-
out, which hindered Sister Eliza R. S. Smith
and others from attending, yet the occasion was
an exceedingly pleasant one, and we wish Sister
Goddard not only many happy returns of the
day but joy and happiness here, and eternal hap-
piness hereafter with those she loves in the man-
sions of glory.


