PRIMARIES IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	March 7th 1882 a meeting was held in the
Tabernacle to organize the Primary Associa-
tions for the Stake. Sister Julia H. Ivins was
sustained and set apart as President; with Sis-
ters Mary G. Whitehead and Annie C. Wood-
bury as Counselors; Annie M. W. Romney as
Secretary; and E. P. Bently as Treasurer;
were also set apart by the brethren. Sisters
E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. Young,
were present and gave much eloquent as well
useful instruction.
	During the spring and summer all schools
and meetings were suspended on account of the
prevalence of diptheria. In the early fall Pres.
Ivins once more commenced the work which
has since grown in interest, benefit, and mutual
pleasure. In the winter Sisters Ellen S. Claw-
son and Aurelia S. Rogers met with the Prim-
aries of this and adjoining towns and seemed
equally as well pleased to meet with the mem-
bers as we were to see them.
	The Secretary A. M. W. Romney having
moved to Arizona and consequently resigned
Pres. Ivins appointed Susa Young Gates as
Stake Sec'y.
	Our President is a live, active General over
her little army of youthful saints, and labors
in the dual capacity of Ward Pres., and Stake
Pres., verily; cheerfulness and energy are
goodly possessions, and the consequence is, our
Associations seem to grow more interesting as
time passes on. Joint monthly meetings have
been called by the Pres. at which oftentimes
the Officers and some members of the Wards 5
miles off walk over to attend.
	A Stake Fair is in contemplation for the
near future and if energetic efforts will make
it a success the Pres. and her able Counselors
are sure to succeed. Our Conference has just
closed.
	On Saturday the 18th the Primary Conference
was held. It was the best attended of any of
the Woman’s Conferences. Numbers of repres-
entatives were present from other wards and a
most enjoyable time was experienced.
	The Primary of this Stake, I will conclude
by saying is in a most excellent condition
throughout.
		Your sister &c.
