IN ANSWER TO SOME FACTS.

	As the invitation is general to reply to Mrs.
Scott, I will give a few of my views in regard
to the peculiar order of marriage believed in
and practised by our people.
	The "Mormon" women do not look at it as
the "Gentile" women do; they sincerely be-
lieve it to be revealed from God, for the salva-
tion and exaltation of the human family. It
is the foundation for health and purity. A
man marries several wives—pure, virtuous wo-
men, they understand it to be a sacred and
holy order. That husband keeps himself free
from such vices as prevail in the world—he
would no more associate himself with the vile,
than he would enter a den of poisonous vipers,
for he looks upon adultery as one of the great-
est sins a man can commit. The wives love
and respect the husband, and know him to be
a man of God, and they have confidence in his
chastity and honor, and they are happy in each
other's love. The children are born pure, and
are healthy and strong physically, It is the
pride of a "Mormon" wife to have a large fam-
ily of bright, intelligent children, and she de-
votes her time and attention to teaching her
little ones, in their earliest youth, the princi-
ples of virtue, truth, honesty and industry;
she considers this her highest mission upon
earth, and she takes delight and finds happi-
ness in the pleasing task.
	I wish every honest man and woman in the
world could visit one Sabbath School out of
the hundreds that are established in this Ter-
ritory, where these beautiful, blooming, happy,
contented children congregate on Sunday
morning to be instructed and to partake of the
Sacrament. They could not help saying in
their hearts at least, Where are the evils which
are the result of the practice of the order of
plural marriage?		SUSAN TERRY.


AN important installment of "woman's
rights" has been conceded in Switzerland, where
the law making both sexes of full legal age at
twenty-one came into force with the new year.
In many cantons the age of majority for men
was hitherto been as high as twent-six; and,
as women were altogether denied majority, no
matter how old they were, the number of
"wards" was very great. The duty of guar-
dianship in most cases devolved on the com-
munes, which have now been relieve of much
thankless labor; and for the future Swiss wo-
men, at home and abroad, whether unmarried,
married, or windows, will be civilly emancipated
on their twenty-first birthdays. In the town
of Saint Gall alone, fortunes to the amount of
upwards of ten millions of francs were trans-
ferred to women, formerly in wardship. under
the new law, on New Year's day.


