REPORTS.

	DEAR SISTER WELLS: The Conference of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion, was
held in the Ogden Tabernacle on March the
9th. Thought you would perhaps like to know
a little of what was done and said on that day.
We missed the presence of Sister Snow and
yourself very much, but although you were
both absent you were not forgotten, and had
the love, faith and prayers of all the brethren
and sisters at this time. I will try and tell
you a little, becanse you know it would be dif-
ficult in a short letter to begin to tell of the
many great and glorious principles that the
Saints of the Most High, have to talk of. The
subjects being various, and many, and as a
general thing they do not while speaking in a
meeting of this kind confine their thoughts to
one particular subject. The Conference was
conducted by President Jane S. Richards, com-
menced by singing, prayer by Bishop Joseph
M. Harris. Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted, also the reports, 17 in num-
ber.
	President Richards addressed the congrega-
tion, spoke of the duty of Saints, thought what-
soever was a duty, whether great or small.
should also be a pleasure to be performed by
us as a people. Thought it would be wise to
meet oftener together, by so doing we would
enjoy the Spirit of the Lord to a still greater
extent than we now do, and that we would be
more united; to be a great and good people we
must have the spirit of love and unity in our
midst, for we know not how many may be the
trials and temptations we may have to endure
for our religion. Spoke of the blessing that
even trials sometimes were to us; also of the
little things of life. Prayed the Lord to bless
and sustain us all in doing good. Counselor
Hattie Brown. Desired to respond to every
call made of her,thought that in doing our duty
we would find great pleasure. Spoke of ignor-
ance, felt that no true Saint could be ignorant,
having so many good books to read, and hear,
ing so many great and noble thoughts from
some of the best and noblest of men. Thought
we should pray for one another, and through
faith build each other up, and not pull down.
Counselor Sarah J. Herrick, was pleased to see
so many in attendance, from throughout the
County, it being very stormy weather,it showed
that they were alive to their duties, and God
would bless and pour his Holy Spirit upon
them, that they would better realize the bless-
ings and goodness of a loving Father to them.
	Brother Joseph Harris, felt to praise the
Lord for his goodness to the Saints; knew the
span of life on this side the vale was short, and
life's journey full of trials and temptations, still
we have very many pleasures; it is a pleasure
to be surrounded by friends, by those whom

[Column 2]

we love, and are co-workers with us. We feel
comforted even in sorrow, and can look up and
praise and sing to God, thought that like the
three Nephites of old, a great deal of our sor-
row, shoud be for the wicked of the world, felt
the Saints took pleasure in pushing forward in
all things pertaining to the kingdom of God; in
sunshine or rain, and those having the Spirit of
God dwelling in their hearts were indeed happy;
they can tell the Spirit of the Lord from other
spirits; it will whisper peace, and joy to their
souls, and take away hatred, strife, malice,
and all evil from their hearts; their whole de-
sire being to do good. Said that if we followed
the Spirit of the Lord, all would be well with
us, that it would lead us in good paths. He
dwelt at some length upon the stage of life, do-
ing good, etc.
	The meeting adjourned, with singing and
benediction. The afternoon meeting com-
menced as usual, with singing and prayer.
The Presidents of the various societies reported
verbally, all being in a prosperous condition,
the members all feeling to rejoice in the bless-
ings they received through the goodness of
God.
	Bishop Robert McQuarie, felt interested in
the Relief Society, knew the work to be im-
mense, and of great value; it was not the work
of the world, but the work of God; and that
those who tried in any way to overthrow it, are
measuring arms with the Almighty, and they
would find sooner or later, that there is a fear-
full odds against them; for this work will con-
tinue to roll until it fills the whole earth, and
that our enemies will only do what the Lord
will let them; they would like to bring us into
bondage, but they will not be able to do it for
the Lord is on our side. Thought the Saints
in majority were growing nearer to God every
day, there are some drones in our midst, you
will find them everywhere for there are many
with no religion in them. He spoke upon
many subjects of interest to us as a people.
The Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang, "We thank thee O God for a Prophet."
Benediction by Brother Peter Later.
