PIPSEY PAPERS.—No 19.

	I have been trying for some time to take my
kinitting (my pen rather) and spend a little
time with Mrs. Scott.
	She wishes to know something of our lives,
and of the manners and habits of the people of
Utah. Some of our sisters have answered her
very ably, and I can fully endorse what they
have said but the subject is inexhaustible, and


[Column 1]
the lady wishes to know something of our man-
ners and habits as well as our theories concern-
ing marriage, so I will try to enlighten her so
far as I can. Each man who marries two or
more wives, manages his family affairs accord-
ing to the best of his judgment and the disposi-
tions of those with whom he is associated, just
as men do that have but one wife. Some men
think they can can manage the wife or wives
and some allow them to manage themselves.
Some families are very agreeable and study each
other's welfare and happiness, while others, I
am sorry to say, are not quite so harmonious in
their relation with each other. As far as my
observation extends that is generally the case
where there is but one wife. That does not by
any means condemn marriage,which we believe
to be a sacred and holy institution, and pecu-
liarly adapted to the welfare and happiness of
mankind.
	Our sons as well as our daughters are taught
to esteem their virtue, above any price and hold
most sacred the marriage covenants. The
sacred rites of our Church enjoin virtue and
purity, and those who transgress are held ac-
countable to God in a greater degree than those
who sin in ignorance.
	Some men provide for their families separ-
ately and each wife is head of her own house-
hold affairs. It places upon her greater re-
sponsibilites in training her children, and mul-
plies her cares, as the father must divide his
time and cannot always be at either home. It
teaches a woman self-reliance and necessitates
her to live nearer to God.
	Of "Mormon" women, I believe they will yet
take the lead among the women of the world,
as they have taken the lead in the franchise,
their discipline and practical education fitting
them to do so.
	Some wives prefer living in one home where
they can enjoy more of the company of the
husband, and have their families more immedi-
ately under his control.
	I have a neighbor who many years ago en-
tered into the practise of the order of plural
marriage. His first wife had no children, and
when he proposed marrying another, she exacted
the promise that the first child that was born
should he given to her. A promise which was
faithfully kept, for in due time a son was born
which she claimed and raised as her own. He
married a third wife who was also blessed with
children. After a few years both of the young
mothers died, leaving the first wife with eight
children to raise. I met her one day sobbing
ready to break her heart. "Oh sister T," said
she, "Emma is dead, and what shall I do? I
have often prayed for children but did not ex-
pect my prayers answered in this manner. I
said, "do the best you can and God will help
you." And He has blessed her. The children
have grown up around her and are respected
men and women. Some are married and have
families, and her feelings are as kindly towards
them as if they were her own. How much
happier the couple are than if they had gone
down to a childless old age.
	It is common for men whose wives have no
children to marry again, and who shall say it
is wrong. Who shall say that a man should go
down to a childless old age and have no one to
perpetuate his name, or mourn for him when
he is gone, because his first choice fails to fill
his expectations. There are many circum-
stances transpire wherein any unprejudiced per-
son could not fail to see that plural marriage
is a blessing. We connot deny that it is often
a trial. Some feel it in one way and some in
another; but God says He will have a tried
people. He says also that they shall he tried
in all things; and they shall be as gold seven
times refined in the furnace. If we are God's
chosen people our garments must be washed
white in the blood of the Lamb. I wonder
sometimes if people realize what that means.

[Column 2]
And I sometimes wonder when I see people
passing through trials and adversities, humble
and contrite, holding fast to the faith, if those
men or women are those whose garments should
be "washed white" and they should be brought
up through much tribulation.
	God certainly wishes his children to be hap-
py, and those who rely on Him and his prom-
ises will find their greatest happiness in keep-
ing his commandments, for He has said, "Come
unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden,
for my yoke is easy and my burden is light."
	From what we learn from those who come
among us, our sisters in the East do not find
matrimony a "bed of roses." They are, many
of them, suspicious of their husbands, and men
fear to trust their wives, thus making marriage
a thing to he shunned as bringing responsibili-
ties and heart-burnings they are not willing to
encounter.
	The nation is spending its wrath on a few in-
significant people away off in the mountains,
where we had thought to get out of everybody's
way, and worship God according to the dictates
of our own consciences. But should we re-
main obscure and unknown? We should not
be what we profess; a power that shall be
known and acknowledged throughout the
world. It is written that God will make the
wrath of man to praise Him; and while the
heads of the nation are puzzling their brains as
to how they are to solve the "Mormon problem,"
we are sitting quietly at home, and making our-
selves happy in attending to our own business.
	As I sat in meeting yesterday listening to the
statistical reports of this stake, for the past three
months, I noticed that there were several more
boys than girls born during the time, also that
there were a number of men less than women
who had died. I could but reflect that God
was quite capable of disposing of the vexatious
question through natural principles. I heard
a probate judge say a few years ago in speaking
of unhappiness, in plural marriage, that he was
led to suppose there was more unhappiness
among those who were not in it, from the fact
that he gave five divorces to one given by Pre-
sident Brigham Young. I believe we can truly
say that we enjoy a large share of happiness. It
does not consist in any given condition of life.
Our "Gentile" sisters are unhappy in bearing
children, while we are most unhappy in not
bearing them; believing that to be woman's
highest mission on the earth. Many women
who are left widows in youth are only induced
to marry again by their desire to raise families;
and very few marry single men, as they prefer
a small portion of the society of a husband
they can truly honor, to the society of such
single men as would be likely to marry women
of their age and position.
	Every women who is married according to
the celestial law, being united with her husband
for eternity, and it is not usual for men believ-
ing in the Gospel to marry the wives of men
who are dead until they have already chosen a
wife for themselves, to be their's through all
eternity. For we believe in marriage as ex-
plained in the Bible, and take such examples
as Ruth and Boaz, for instance, in such cases.
We do not believe that a woman should spend
her life alone because her husband has gone be-
hind the veil, but should marry and raise a
family for her honor and for his also. The
afternoon is well spent and I will bid Mrs. Scott
good evening, hoping our gossip may prove sat-
isfactofy and we shall hear from her again. I
can assure her if she would call and see us she
would not be at all frightened, for we are
friendly people and abhor immorality above all
things.							MARY.


