QUESTIONS ANSWERED. 
As questions have been asked for us to an- 
swer with all plainness and truthfulness, I for
one, like Paul, take pleasure in answering to
the truth. We are not of the world; if we
were the world would love us; but we are hated
for the Gospel’s sake. Now, we believe in rev-
elation, which the world deny. God has said
unto us He will restore all things as at the be-
ginning. He gave commandment then to mul-
tiply and replenish the earth; He has said in
this age, “Raise up unto me a righteous seed;
but first, enter into my covenant, which is the
covenant of marriage”—which ceremony only
can be performed by His servants holding the
Melchizedek Priesthood, which was taken from
the earth when those who held it were slain.
They held the keys to administer in sacred
things. John the Revelator, being banished
on the Isle of Patmos, saw what would take
place in our day, when the Everlasting Gospel
would be preached to every nation, tongue, and
people, “Saying, give glory to God, for the
hour of his judgment has come.”
Now, it behooves all people to repent of
their sins, and receive the Gospel and be saved,
for the Scripture says, “He that believeth and
is baptized shall be saved; he that believeth
not shall be damned.” (St, Mark, xv, 16.)
" Now, this same John has come and commit-
ted this Priesthood to men on the earth, to ad-
minister again in sacred ordinances. The
angel came with the Everlasting Gospel, hav-
ing all the gifts and blessing accruing there-
unto. I can bear witness to these things; I
have heard the gift of tongues, the interpreta-
tion given, have seen the sick restored to health
by the gift of healing, the evil spirit cast out
by prayer and the gift of faith, and I do know
for myself that these things are true, for they
have been shown to me by the Holy Spirit.
We are told to read the Scriptures, and learn
these things for ourselves. I had a testimony
before I ever heard a Latter-day Saint preach
that the same Gospel that the Apostles taught
would be restored to the earth again. I found
that I was quite familiar with Bible doctrine,
and by the power of the priesthood I have
been enabled to understand more fully. I
was no stranger to that which had been taught
me in the spirit world before I took this mortal
body. Now I expect to obtain an immortal one,
if I am faithful to the end.
My sisters, we who have entered into this
holy order of marriage see eye to eye as I do, 
for the Lord says, “Except ye are one ye are
not mine.” What I have written my sisters
in the faith, believe as I do. Therefore, what
I have set forth is the mind of all. And in
no principle of the Gospel do we differ, one
person in the Church can represent the prin-
ciples of the whole body. With the world this
is called one-man power, but with us we call it
unity of faith. To us the angel has brought
glad tidings of great joy, which shall be to all
people Heavenly Father, let us be in posses-
sion of this thy heavenly message, which is the
greatest boon to mortals! It giveth peace  of


mind that the world knoweth not of. Man
can only take liberty of conscience, our rights
as fellow citizens; we are still the citizens of
God’s Kingdom, and our thoughts are as free
as the morning sun that shines in its glory.
	Mary Ann M. Pratt. 
March 16,1882.


