ELDER STAKE.

	Dear Brothers and Sisters, I feel as though I
would not be doing my duty if I should neglect
writing to you, after the great good you have
accomplished, in sending for the poor Saints
that are not able to help themselves. The little
boys and girls in England, don't have such nice
homes as you have. I have been traveling
among the people of England for over a year,
and I've often felt as though I could sit down
and weep, when I see little boys and girls that
cannot get enough to eat, and sometimes their
mothers will go without anything to eat, so they
can have something to give their little children.
I've sat down at a table to eat after walking
twenty miles, and I would look at the little
children I could see that they were hungry; then
I would eat but a few bites and tell the children
to eat the rest. It would do me more good to
see them eat, than for me to eat a dozen sup-
pers. You little boys and girls have plenty,
and if I should call and see some of you, you
could give me something to eat and not suf-
fer for it. One day as I was walking through
the village, and thinking of the poor saints, I
wondered, what I could do that I might get en-
ough money, to send out a little girl from Eng-
land, and something said to me write to the
President of the Primary Association, and see
if she cannot get all the little boys and girls, to
donate a few cents a week till they get enough
to send for a little girl. I then wrote to the
President and in about six weeks received an
answer, saying she thought they would be able
to send for a little girl or two, by the last com-
pany that left Liverpool.
	Dear boys and girls you don't know how
pleased I was to sec the little girl leave Eng-
land, and go to the land that the Lord had pro-
vided for His people to flee to, in order that
they might be protected from the judgments
that are coming upon those that will not serve
Him and keep His commandments. The
mother of the little girl that you sent for wish-
es to be remembered to you all, and she feels
that the Lord has blessed her in opening the
hearts of the Primary Associations in helping
her child from this land. Dear brothers and
sisters you are now engaged in something that
will prove a blessing to you on the earth as
well as hereafter, for by sending for the girl
you have been the means of bringing another
into the Church so you see you are missionaries.
I’ve walked over four thousand miles in the past
year. I have found many kind friends some
that are not of us, but they are honest-hearted,
when I've been delivering the word of God to
the people, I've had them shut the door in my
face, and say they didn’t want anything to do
with the Mormons. While I am writing a
sister comes in and tells me her husband has
been scolding her for attending meetings here on
Sunday. He watches her like a cat watching
a mouse, lest she should see some of the Eld-


ers. It is not because we are such bad men
but because we are teaching the word of the
Lord. I hope the Lord will bless you in the
good work in which you are engaged in obeying
the counsel which is given and the Lord will
bless you in all you undertake to do in righte-
ousness. Love to all that are engaged in the
building up of God’s kingdom.
	I remain your brother in the Gospel.
