		NEW YORK MAR. 14 1862.

	EDITOR EXPONENT—The suspense is over and
both Houses of Congress have declared their de-
termination to put down Mormonism, even if it be
at the expense of a violated Constitution—Pract-
ically they have said that Mormons have no
rights that Governments are bound to respect—
Their motive is not to promote virtue, purity,
good order, morality and religion. If these were
their desires, they would find quite enough work
nearer home—work that would tax all their leg-
islative power to accomplish. The agitation is
not made by the people. Most of them know
but little about the Mormons, and trouble them-
selves far less about either their social or religi-
ous pecularities. The politicians and the clergy
are the prime movers in the matter. The former,
because they know that a fearful social and fi-
nancial crisis is near at hand, and they desire to
divert the attention of the people from the irre-
pressible conflict between Capital—Monopoly
and Labor, which will very soon produce a panic
more serious than any that have preceded it, and
therefore they cry "Mormonism Polygamy—
Down with Mormonism." The clergy join in
the cry with might and main for almost the
same reason. Like Demetrius and the silver
smiths of Ephesus, their craft is in danger.
The triumph of Mormonism, which is the tri-
umph of the Gospel of the new and everlasting
covenant, is the death blow to Sectarian Christ-
ianity.
	The hireling priests of modern Babylon who
preach for hire and divine for money are in every
respect like the Pharisees of old, they "have
taken away the key of knowledge" and have
neither entered in themselves nor permitted
others to enter in who would. And if an in-
dividual or newspaper, more independent than
the rest, dares to utter one word in behalf of
justice and fair play, Constitutional and religious
liberty, the cry of "Mormon sympathizer!!
Polygamist!" Is immediately raised to intimid-
ate them into silence. One incident will serve
to show how ignorant the masses of the people
are. A prominent society lady in New York
said to me a few weeks ago that she had always
supposed that the Mormons were a tribe of
Indians who had given the Government a great
deal of trouble by killing and massacring white
people who traveled that way. When I showed
her the views of our city, and gave her the art-
icles of faith and a newspaper to read, she was
amazed. I could relate many incidents of this
character which I have met with during my
stay here. I should have been very pleased,
could I have commanded the time, to have been
a more regular correspondent, but my medical
and surgical work has been so continuous and
absorbing, that I have not had a moment to spare
for any thing outside of it. Though New York
abounds with opportunities of culture in every
department of art and science, and under other
circumstances I should have deeply appreciated
them. I determined that nothing should inter-
fere with my entire devotion to the course of
study I had marked out for myself before com
ing here. I feel gratefully to acknowledge the
hand of God in opening up my way and enabling
me to accomplish even more than I had ever
anticipated. During the first three months my
time was almost entirely occupied at Belle Vue
Hospital, attending the clinical lectures, and in
Dispensary work in the out door department
where I made a special study of diseases of the
Nose, Throat, Lungs and Heart, examining and
treating from forty to fifty patients every week.
The knowledge and experience that I have
gained in this department alone would more
than repay me for my visit. The remaining

[Column 2]
three months I have spent in the Woman's
Hospital of the State of New York studying the
Diseases of Women, under the most eminent
gynecologists of the present day.
	In this department I have had large oppor-
tunities for practical work, as well as clinical
instructions under Drs. Emmet, Gaillard,
Thomas, See and Bozeman, men who have no
superiors among the professional talent of this
country, and who have attained a worldwide
reputation for surgical skill and pathological
reseach in gynecological medicine, And now
that my work is done and I am about to turn
my face homeward I feel as if for the first time
I dared to give vent to my feelings and indulge
in a desperate home longing. The thought of
returning to Zion, of reunion and association
with the people of God and enjoyment of the
blessings and ordinances of the Lord's House
fills my heart with joy.
	My association with the people of the world
made me feel more than ever thankful that I
am a Latter-day Saint, and I pray to be kept
humble and faithful unto the end. May the
Lord bless Zion and comfort His people, over
rule all things for the good of His Church and
kingdom, until He comes whose right it is to
reign. Love to all from yours truly.
