MORMONS.

	One conversant with the facts cannot help
feeling astonished at the sensational stories told
of family life among the Mormons. There are
the bugbears that have frightened the people of
the United States into compelling the rulers of
the land to deal with the people of Utah as out-
laws and felons. But why should not Congress
pause until disinterested men and women could
have been sent to make a correct and fair inves-
tigation in the premises. What necessity was
there for the desperate hurry, unless it was that
there was a fear of facts coming to light that
would preclude the need of special legislation?
No other Territory of the Republic of America is
so favorably situated at the present time as
Utah, or as it was previous to the passage of the
Edmund's bill. The very fact that these com-
plainers have stirred up such fountains of
bitterness having enriched themselves
here and established their various forms
of religion disproves what they say of the Mor-
mon people. They see this little band of exiles
driven without mercy into the barren wilderness
growing rich, and as they imagine powerful, and
in the envy of their hearts, they cannot endure
it, but want to have another trial to see if there
is any power in the "Mormon" priesthood.
They cannot bear to see this hated and despised
class lift up their heads and grow independent.
They have sought in vain, with a few exceptions,
to decoy the children of the Saints. And they are
grown discouraged in offering the old-time worn
thread-bare stories like the Spaulding romance
and others of even a more sensational character.
	There is nothing so calculated to arouse the
most intense emotions of the heart of a "Mor-
mon," as the oft-repeated assertion in the news-
papers of the country that "there are no homes
in Utah." In no place under the shining sun is
home held more sacred, or domestic ties more
binding, and the proportion of happy homes
where love reigns supreme is indeed very large.
To attempt the destruction of these home-sanc-
tuaries where virtue is nourished and protected,
and honesty, truth and uprightness inculcated,
and spread desolation and misery broadcast is the
prospective work of the reconstructors in enforc-
ing the Edmund's bill. To be instrumental in
seeking to tear asunder those who have entered
into holy covenants with each other, to rend the
heart-strings of the loving and devoted, to make
shipwreck of human happiness, with all the at-
tendant consequences of this terrible state of
affairs, no one need envy these agents of the
government, the five commissioners. One in-
terested heart and soul in the matter, cannot
help seriously and intensely pondering as to the
outcome of such exceptional proceedings, by a
government professing protection for all men
irrespective of religion. That the principle of
plural marriage among the Latter-day Saints is
practised most positivly from strong religious

[Column 2]
convictions must be well known to all who are
acquainted with the individual character and
home life of this people. Were it not so such
sacrifices could not have been willingly made, as
have been absolutely necessary in the establish-
ment of this new departure in social ethics. It
is not the most pleasant thing to be "hated of all
men" and have "your name cast out as evil."
The passage of the Edmund's bill will be sure to
provoke and involve other difficult questions
which will sap the very foundation of the struc-
ture on which justice is enthroned (if it has not
already been done) and the people who have
clamored and urged upon Congress this crusade
agains the "Mormons," will yet have to suffer
from the effects of this very precendent, they
have been the means of establishing. The
"Mormons" are not going to be the only sufferers
from the adoption of such radical laws. The sec-
tarian priests who have been loudest in denounc-
ing the "Mormons" from the pulpit and to the
government may tremble for fear of the retribu-
tion which is sure to follow upon their devoted
heads, now that the government has commenced
legislating against one form of religion.
	This is only the beginning but what shall the
end be? Who can tell? The Latter-day Saints
can endure oppression from the hands of their
enemies even unto death if need be, but Zion will
be established in the tops of the mountains, and
the Lord in his own due time will make bare his
arm in defense of this people!


[Column 1]

