	BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Since Adam and Eve first wended their way,
From beautiful Eden, so "they say,"
Strange things will happen on an April day,
All sorts of pranks she is sure to play.
Dame nature is busy, stirring about,
Bringing glad beauty from dark things out,
And cleaning her house from ceiling to floor
Spreading new carpets from shore to shore;

In curious corners and cosy nooks,
She plants her statues, places her books;
Vast troops of servants; she calls to their work,
None can escape her, none dare shirk,
Winter's traces she is [-]ain to repair,
Weaving new garments for those left baare;
How charming she looks in her tucked-up sleeves,
Actively turning over the leaves.

Replacing the old ones so brown and s[-]re,
With fresh and beautiful, shining clear.
And out of the dark brown withering sod,
With a touch of her divining rod,
She brings forth gay colors, and rich perfumes,
Art never dreamed of, with all her looms;
And then she has orchestra, placed around,
There's scarcely a grove, but they are found,

Melodious singing!  both sweet and clear,
Room too fro all, who will go and hear;
Just the grandest concerts!  free as the air,
And no dress circles, or charges there!
Sumptuous banquets both rich and rare,
Her ready hand-maidens oft prepare,
There's no time for them to loiter in bed,
With hosts of open mouths to be fed!

Nightly fountains playing all over the world
Sunbeams to scatter, banners unfurl,
Vast chambers to drape with the glorious blue!
Staunch temperance movement, through and through,
There's no end of flocks, swarms, droves and herds,
April calls forth with merely a word,
Bashful maiden, March let out of school,
None dare call her but one day, a fool!
Strange pranks she plays on that day I am told,
Many are bought, but more have been sold.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
But once on a time, while making a raid,
'Twixt tears and smiles an off'ring she laid;
Unclothed and nameless, mysterious elf,
Winning capricious as April herself,
Sweet love cared for the waif, cherished and blessed,
Nourished the gift with tender caress;
And brought out its name, from radiant light,
Clear as the morning star sparklingly bright,
Since then in making her annual round,
Whether with cmiles, or in cold chilly frowns,
Here, she is greeted, and feted the same,
As tho' fool, were ne'er attached to her name.


