SISTERS—OF WHOM SHALL WE BUY.

	There is more in this question than a casual
observer might think.
	The politicial, civil and social rights of the en-
tire people are threatened; that there is a deep laid
scheme to rob us of all these no careful observer
will deny. Polygamy is the ostensible bone of
contention, the attack is (seemingly) made up-
on this institution alone. Because of this, our
fathers, husbands, brothers, sons, as well as our-
selves (who have entered into these relations) are
to be disfranchised, denied not only the right of
office but even the right to cast our vote for those
who might be our choice for office.
	The people who came here first and took the
initiative in determining the question (for it was
a question) of inhabiting this mountainous region
and demonstrated not only the possibility but
the practicability of such inhabiting; the Sires,
Matrons, and their children who are to-day re-
warded with comfortable homes, beautiful gard-
ens and orchards, fields yielding plentifully and
surrounded with the comforts of life generally;
after a period of nearly thirty-five years of exper-
ment, toil, hardship, privation, want and more
than once, threatened famine have become the
envy of hungry cormorants, who love to feed
upon that which is already provided: these are
politic withal; "we will do nothing," they say,
but what the law allows, justifies and warrants.
We offer you women and children of these wicked
polygamists protection under the law, freedom
from matrimonial covenants entered into under
Mormon administration, for these are unlawful.
We will place you upon a higher plane than that
you now occupy; you shall become like unto us.
Leave the practices of barbaric ages and accept


of the advanced civilization of the nineteenth
Century.
	Finding the Statute book wanting in some par-
ticulars for the accomplishment of this laudable
object we have obtained Special Legislation to
enable us to carry out our pure intentions toward
you and trust you will readily acquiesce; failing
in which we shall be compelled to execute the
law by inflicting the penalties which it provides,
by means of this special legislation.
	Who are these that thus coax and threaten in
one breath; to what society do they belong?
We would like to know them. Oh! these are
Ministers of the gospel, of the meek and lowly
Jesus, and Federal officials, appointed by the
government sent as the servants of the people to
watch over their interests and see that their
rights are held sacred; members of the legal pro-
fession whose only aim should be right and justice
Merchants—stop! I have seen the highest of-
ficial of a State pledge his own honor and the
faith of his state to protect the life of the Prophet
of God, (Joseph Smith) I have seen that honor
sacrificed, that faith broken and foul murder fol-
low. I have seen the luminaries of the law drag
in the mire their high attainments in trying to
tear truth from its foundations and to stamp up-
on innocence the foulest crimes. I have seen
the learned divine rave and foam at the mouth
when defeated in fair argument by the unlearned
Elder, and have heard said divine advocate all
sorts of wicked and unlawful things to be vis-
ited upon his successful antagonist: but the Mer-
chant—you surely must be mistaken, for it would
be against his own interest to make common
cause with these you have named and others.
Let me assure you then, I am not mistaken, for
in this special legislation I have named while the
Merchants may not have been as clamorous as
the rest, they have stood idly by and when asked
to sign a petition to have investigation made of
these most false, foul and corrupt charges against
the people of Utah; before such special legisla-
tion was enacted, have almost universally
refused and thus stand upon the same platform
as our avowed enemies.
	That they have sought our trade 'tis true,
have tried to suit our taste and fancy is also true;
but this was to their pecuniary advantage for
have we not paid our money for all they have
let us have? Yes; to the tune of millions, and
more promptly perhaps than the same number
of people of any other class would have done in
all Christendom, for is not Mormon honesty in
paying debts proverbial? Then we owe them no-
thing; absolutely nothing: for if an equitable
balance were declared it would show the odds in
their favor as their enlarged show rooms and
mammoth stores testify,as well as their generally
improved financial condition.
	They have now drawn the dividing line we
did not do it. Had we been left alone we might
still have bought of them and they sold to us;
those who have already grown rich upon Mor-
mon patronage might have become richer and
others might have followed in their wake. But
now—"Of whom shall we buy?" Let every
mother and daughter in Israel answer this ques-
tion for herself. More than a Century ago wo-
man made common cause against her oppres-
sers: let the daughters of these noble women (of
whom Utah can boast a very large share) follow
their example in at least one particular, "To not
give succor to the Enemy',' The line has been
drawn; they having defined it, let us respect the
mark they have made.
	"Of whom shall we buy?" Hereafter only of
him or her who we know to be our friend, the
friend also of right, truth, justice and of God.
