THE REASON WHY.

	In the glorious day in which we live, we s
the intellect of man and woman unfolding li


a flower, to bring us nearer to "Him who rules
on high." Science takes her votaries by the
hand and says, "Behold the wonders that have
existed since the world was, yet have they been
hidden for ages, and mortality has lived and
died, and never known that these things were,
till in this the last, the eleventh hour, they are
revealed to man." Yet weak, erring man
takes all the glory to himself, and tells us he
has done all this. Yes! by faith and research,
application and experiments, great and won-
derful things have been made known to those
who live in this day. The wonders of elec-
tricity, of steam, of the spectrum, of the dis-
tance of worlds, and existence of new metals
and gases in worlds, that it takes hundreds of
years for the light to reach this little second-
rate world of ours. All these things come like
an avalanche to overthrow old theories. We
wonder, we ponder, we accept them. But the
immortality of the soul, our condition before
we were mortal beings, and our future exis-
tence, all those great and important subjects
that one would naturally suppose would receive
the most attention from the intelligent portion
of humanity, are based upon the false reason-
ing of weak men.
	Who made your spirit, mighty man? With
all your knowledge can you stay the hand of
death and live for ever? Can you do aught
but learn and utilize the great forces which
you have no power to create? Ah! no; you
are but the creatures of your Father's bounty,
and are subject to the fixed laws which He has
made.
	Is it strange that God should give a plan by
which His children may be saved? And be-
cause He does not choose the worldly wise to
be His instruments to make it known to the
world, is it not a greater proof of His power?
	That God, our Eternal Father, has given
this plan, and is willing for all to believe, and
be saved, I do know and testify; that the time
has come for a people to prepare themselves for
the coming of Him who was slain by the un-
believing Jews, that the way might be prepared
for us to progress here and hereafter; that this
message is sent to all, to those who sit in high
places and low. And because those great fun-
damental truths are not believed by all, men
rise up and say, "You shall be slain if you
persist in such heresies; you must be as we are;
right or wrong;" when they know not the
truth as we know it. "You must lie to your
own consciences and turn traitor to your God,"
that God whom we have already sworn to serve
and obey. To all such I say, Never!
	Truth is truth, and when assailed it only
shines forth with greater brilliancy. What!
give up, for fear of men, that which God has
stamped upon my soul as an everlasting truth?
How dare they ask it. I do not ask any one
to believe as I do, unless that person be con-
vinced of the truth; none can say truthfully
that the Gospel was forced upon them. Yet
would I rejoice it every honest heart could en-
joy and know the blessings of the Everlasting
Gospel.				ZINA Y. WILLIAMS.


