CONTINUED.

	The anxiety expressed in my parents' letters
concerning their children's going to school,
brings up a subject much harped upon by out-
siders, who have always declared that "Mor-
mons" were opposed to education. This of
course has no foundation, except in their own
disordered brain, which is fed by the distorted
tales of people who have no higher ambition
than to invent and magnify falsehoods against
the latter-day Saints. Thousands can testify
that wherever our lot has been cast, almost the
first building put up has been the school house.
In the little town of Far West the Saints had
a large and commodious one, far superior to
the ones built by the Gentiles in my native
town, and in Kirtland, Ohio, where I was
taught my earliest lessons. The first thing my
parents thought of wherever we stopped was to
send us to school. While at Winter Quarters 
in the Omaha nation, we had one taught be
Sister Emmeline Whitney, who is now Emme-
line Wells, editor of the EXPONENT.  *     *
	During my school days we were moving
about from place to place, and being subjectd
to cinstant interruptions, it made out early
studies less salutary. It was no easy matter
for a child to all at once settle down to dry
books; and schools and books were not then
what they are now, for little children had to
study out of the same that the elder ones did;
and when we consider the thousand and one
adverse circumstances with which we as a peo-
ple have had to contend for so many years to
be able to retain even an existence upon the
earth, we feel satisfied that we are deserving of
the praise and eulogies of our nation, which
 ant other community would have received; but
instead of our just dues;we have been subjected
to  the impositions of a set of lawless land-
sharks, who are too lazy to work, and therefore
wish to rob the "Mormons," although they
know them to be an honest and industrious
people out of their hard earnings, and the
meanness to which they have stooped to accom-
plish this would make even Satan blush.
	If the outside world wished to inform them-
selves of the truth they could do so, if they
would put aside their prejudice when they visit
our beautiful cities and homes, they could
learn the truth concerning us and our faith and
practices; and if they were honest they would
never again accuse us of being a low, ignorant
or benighted people.
	If the Mormon emigration had consisted of
the wretchedly deformed and idiotic beings
which they have been represented, there must
be a charm, or something very peculiar in our
religion and organizations to have accomplished
so great and wonderful a transfiguration; for
we have seen nothing to warrant such stuff.
But among those who are gathered here are
some of the brightest and most skilled mechan-
ics and workmen-- if they were not, how could
we have managed to have these fine houses
built and such beautiful farms and cities in
these mountains, independent of our enlight-
ened Christian neighbors?
	The following is true and quite apropos to
the subject:
	"Some suppose that every learned man is an
educated man; no such thing; that man is
educated who knows himself, and takes accu-
rate common-sense views of men and things
around him. Some very learned men are the
greatest fools in the world; the reason is-- they
are not educated men. Learning is only the
means, not the end; its value consists in giving
the means of acquiring that, the use of which,
properly managed, gives tone or direction to
the mind.”
 If not among the most wealthy and learned
of the earth, we have ar least our share of in-
tellect and talents, of which the world can not
rob us; and the wonderful experience of this
people has served to develop and bring them
into use. We all know that the most unprom-
ising have often, by patient study and perse-
verance, become the brightest; and we also
know that what has been accomplished in these
mountains no other people, with all their
boasted wisdom and learning, ever dreamed of
doing until the "Mormons" had shown them how.
Our enemies are well aware of these facts, and
the-only way of hiding them from the world is
to continue throwing dust in theireyes.
To be continued.


