IN MEMORIAM.

	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of another Veteran in Israel Sister Jane
Tuckett who departed this life March 10th 1882,
after an illness of one week, at the residence of
her son in the 11th Ward, Salt Lake City, at the
advanced age of 80 years 9 months and 7 days.
	Deceased was born in East Grinstead, Sussex,
England, July 3rd 1795. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in London May, 1818. Emigrated to America
in the ship Berlin in 1819, passing through New
Orleans, remained in St. Louis five years.
Crossed the plains in Moses Thurston's company
in 1855 and became one of the pioneer settlers in
Spanish Fork, also St. George, Utah where she
buried her only daughter. She was a woman of
remarkable energy and retained all her faculties
to the last moment, conversing freely of her exit
to the life beyond as one would speak of an ex-
pected pleasure trip, consigning various articles
to the care of her friends as tokens of remem-
brance.
	Death had lost all its terrors and she earnestly
desired to enjoy the rest promised to the obedient
and faithful; she had finished her useful career,
was satisfied with life and counseled her children
to live the religion revealed through the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and prepare themselves to receive
a fulness in the celestial kingdom of God. She
only clung to life until she could see two absent
sons who had been summoned to her side, only
one of whom arrived in time to see her pass
away without a struggle. Her life was devoted
to ministering to the sick and needy and many
will have cause to remember her kindness with
deep gratitude' She was the mother of seven
children, and leaves four sons, thirty-one grand-
children, five great grand-children and a wide
circle of friends. She died as she had lived, a
true Latter-day Saint, with the assurance of a
glorious resurrection. Her funeral was largely
attended in the 11th, Ward meeting house
March 10th, when the remains of a good woman
a most devoted mother and true friend were
quietly laid to rest to await the resurrection of
the just.
	"Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
		Their wearied bodies dawn—
	Who leave the frail and mortal clay
		To seek a fadeless crown."
