WATCH AND PRAY.

	"He that thinketh he standeth let him take heed
lest he fall." 
	The above Scriptural quotation is as applica-
ble to us in this day as it was to those who
lived in the day when it was spoken.  It was
given as a warning to the Saints, that they
might realize how liable humanity is to fall
from grace, and the necessity of calling upon 
God in mighty prayer, and fasting if need be, 
to preserve them in that straight and narrow
path which leads to life everlasting, for indeed
"straight is the gate and narrow is the way
that leadeth to the lives, and few there be that
find it; because wide is the gate and broad is
the road that leadeth to destruction, and many
there be who go in thereat."  The choice is
before us, my sisters; which road will we
choose?  
	I say, we who assemble together to worship
God are determined to walk the narrow way;
but we cannot do this without a struggle. We
must battle with the tempter, and our spirits
must wage a warfare with the evils of the flesh, 
until we have gained the mastery over all the
sins which flesh is heir to, which are many.
And we can never feel secure unless we know
we are environed round about, and also within, 
by the Spirit of God; for in that alone is saftey. 
We are apt to become careless, forget ourselves,
and say or do something that will grieve the
Holy Spirit from us; then we are left to our-
selves, subject to the buffetings of Satan--and
he does buffet us severely sometimes.  The
Lord suffers him to do this, so that we may
know how to appreciate His sweet, peaceful
Spirit when we are permitted once more to
enjoy it.
	But we must be very humble and prayerful
in order to secure that Spirit, for it is one of
the blessings that does not descend, like rain, 
on the just and unjust.  It is only those who
have truly repented of all their sins, and are
striving diligently to purify themselves from
all evil, who are entitled to that peace which
can only be enjoyed through a perfect submis-
sion of their will to the will of God.  We can
put no confidence in our own strength or abil-
ity to resist evil and temptation, for without
Divine aid we are like a reed in the wind, 
bending and quivering before ever blast of
the tempest; are sometimes in great danger of
being broken and shattered to pieces.  But oh, 
how strong are we when keeping the command-
ments of God.  In His strength, we can bid
defiance to the armies of Satan, for we then
are impervious to every shaft that may be sent
by the enemy of righteousness; they will re-
bound from us, leaving us pure and unscathed,
and with greater power to resist again.  But
we must be wary and continually on the watch-
tower, spying out all the movements of the
enemy; for if we lay off our armor and go to
sleep, even for a moment, he may and probably
will attack us in an unexpected quarter, which
we, perchance, thought was well fortified; then
we will be compelled to rally all our strongest
forces, fight and struggle, calling upon God--
who might not be so swift to hear as He would
were we blameless--for help to rout the ene-
my when if we had kept a faithful guard
round about, all that sorrow and perplexity
might have been spared us, and that energy
have been reserved for a better, nobler pur-
pose.  
	We should be warned by the example of the
many mighty ones who have fallen, after hav-
ing labored for years in the service of God. 
There have been many instances in our own
day, as well as anciently.  Men who have had
the heavens opened to them, beheld the heav-
enly beings and the glory awaiting the righ-
teous, they have listened to the whisperings of
the adversary, and have been overcome by his
power.  The mighty prophet, David, a man
after God's own heart, who walked blameless
before Him for many years, at last yielded to 
the tempter, and committed two of the great-
est crimes known to humanity, for which he
now lies in hell, and cannot be delivered until
the justice of God is satisfied, even until he has
paid the uttermost farthing.  He must have
neglected to call upon his Father in heaven, 
and became careless pertaining to righteous-
ness, or Satan never could have gained such
power over him.  Man cannot fall from a state
of purity and holiness to a state of corruption
and wickedness in an hour, nor a day; the des-
cent must be  gradual, as was the ascent. Still
we know that when once begun the descent is
very rapid, adn it takes but a short time to
span the distance between happiness and
misery. 
	"Angels have fallen!"  Be this thy mon-
itor, to check the first faint glow of confidence
in human wisdom and in human strength.
	O my sisters, when we consider these things
should we not tremble and draw nearer to God, 
pleading with all the strength of our beings
that He will preserve us by his mighty power, 
from taking the first false step.  But if, per-
chance, we should; in an unguarded moment, 
depart from serving Him fully, let us turn
from our error, and strive with humility, with
fasting and prayer, to be re-established once
more in his favor; for He is merciful, and will
listen to our first repentant cry.  But oh, let
us be careful and not trespass too far upon his
mercy, lest his Spirit ahould become so injured
that it will cease to strive with us, when awful
indeed would be our state.  That fate will
never be ours, if we attend faithfully to our
prayers and meetings; in them is perfect saftey. 
Satan well knows this, hence the reason he so
often tempts us to neglect these duties.  We
can always be sure by what spirit we are
prompted, for all that enticeth to do good is of
God, so says the Prophet Alma, in the Book of
Mormon.  The Good Spirit will ever prompt
us to be prayerful, to attend all our meetings, 
where we can receive strength and encourage-
ment to live the lives of Saints, to prepare
ourselves to meet the great events which are
near at our doors, and at last be worthy of a 
crown among the good and noble of all ages. 
							MARY A. F. 
	Y. L. M. I. A. 11th Ward.


