Convention of the Woman's National Committee for Law Enforcement By President Louise Y. Robison
Washington, D. C., at Easter time, when cherry and magnolia blossoms are in their glory, the air fragrant with springing grass and budding tree— could there be a lovelier setting for a Convention? Fortunate indeed were the delegates from thirty-eight states, who were permitted to attend the Convention of the Woman's National Committee for Law Enforcement, April 12-14, 1933. The President, Mrs. Henry W. Peabody, was an inspiration—gracious, spiritual, efficient. The women who represented many affiliated organizations were most earnest in the support of the Constitution of the United States and the protection of the home and the children of our nation. Executive sessions of the Convention were held in the beautiful Sun Room, Hotel Washington; the General Assemblies were in the Hall of Nations, in the same building. It is difficult to select any outstanding feature of the Convention. Every moment was full of interest. Stirring addresses and earnest appeals for citizens to uphold the Constitution, including the Eighteenth Amendment, were made by United States Senator Arthur Capper, from Kansas, and Senator Morris Sheppard, from Texas. Talks and reports were made by women representing such organizations as the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, Federation of Women's Clubs, National Woman's Democratic Law Enforcement League, National Council Federated Church Women, the Women's Christian Temperance Union, and many others, each pledging themselves and their organizations to support the Volstead Act and the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Women were urged to use their franchise, not to form a new political party, not merely to vote on election day, but in each voting district to organize, and have women at the primaries with a list of men and women for office, who would represent the interests of the whole group —men, women and thirty million children. Mrs. Joy Elmer Morgan, wife of the head of the National Association for Education by Radio, declared that "at least 1,000,000 students now in school would not be there, if liquor had been allowed to mortgage their parents' salary." Women in some localities had pledged themselves not to patronize any grocery store where beer was sold. Telegrams of appreciation were sent from the Convention to many prominent officials, including Governor Eugene Talmadge of Georgia, for the stand they had taken in preventing return of beer. Senator Capper declared the new Beer Bill breaks the Constitution. On the third and closing day of the Convention—Good Friday—the women met in the early morning for prayer. It was the anniversary of the assassination of President Lincoln by a drink-crazed man. The morning was perfect. At ten-thirty
CONVENTION FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT 359
the women gathered at the Lincoln Memorial. On the steps of this impressive monument, overlooking the beautiful City of Washington, a "Petition to the Government for Redress of Grievances" was read by Mrs. A. Haines Lippincott, and approved by the hundreds of people present. Copies of the petition were sent to the President of the United States, and to both Houses of Congress. The spirit of this group of women found expression in the words of the late Calvin Coolidge: "Laws must be justified by something more than the will of the majority. They must rest on the eternal foundations of righteousness."