12 Her Christmas Gift By Katharine C. McKay T was dusk when Amy Tremaine /brought in the last load of wood for the big porch box. Large flakes of snow were beginning to fall, softly, just as they had last evening and Amy sighed as she thought of the paths to be made on the morrow. No need to worry about that tonight, though, the evening ahead of her was her own. Her chores were all done, the cows milked and fed, fresh hay down for the horse, pigs and chickens cared for and enough wood in the porch box to last at least a day—nothing to do till tomorrow. Amy shook the snow from her old felt hat and mackinaw and hung them on the nails reserved for that purpose. Her heavy overshoes she placed carefully beneath them. The warm fragrant air that greeted her as she opened the kitchen door reminded her of the cake in the oven. She hurried to the stove and flung open the oven door quickly, "My land, I forgot all about it—. Well thank goodness it isn't burned." She carried it to the table pleased with its rich brownness and delicious aroma. "Imagine making a cake that size for me. 'Well anyway," and Amy smiled to herself as she said it, "It'll probably do me for this Christmas and the next so I won't need to make a cake for a year." She filled the stove with wood, pushed her soup kettle to the front of the stove and then pumped up and lit the gasoline light, strained the milk and carried two foaming pans to the cold little pantry. She hesitated a moment over a cloth for her table—this old blue print one or a fresh linen one for tonight? The decision was for the linen one. Why shouldn't she celebrate once a year and that on Christmas eve? She brought a lovely cloth, redolent with cedar, from the chest in her room and selected from her plants the gayest of them all, a flaming red geranium for the centerpiece. One knife, one fork, one spoon, a plate marked her place. The fire was burning briskly, the soup bubbling -merrily and the kitchen filled with warmth and comfort. Amy drew an old rocker to the stove —"Just a minute," she coaxed herself, "The rest will make my appetite better." Selecting the January edition of her favorite magazine she sank down in the soft old cushions. How tired she was. She hadn't realized it until now. The paths, of course —shoveling through two feet of snow was a bit hard on a woman of fifty. She'd get Henry Steele or some other little boy to help her tomorrow. With a sigh she lay back in her chair and closed her eyes. Was 638 it because she was so tired that she felt so terribly lonely? "I'm celebrating tonight," she told her hard old self, whimsically, "'so T'll weep if I want to and I'll fairly revel in feeling sorry for myself. It's a treat you never allow me. To begin with —I'm terribly, miserably lonely— there isn't a person closer than a half mile—oh I know I have a home, better than a good many and a good enough living and I ought to be contented, but I'm not. I want someone of my own—my very own. Oh," Amy's eyes filled with tears, "If I could just have a baby, a warm, snug, soft little baby to cuddle in my arms." "It would be funny," she thought, "If it wasn't so pathetic—I was the only one of our bunch that really wanted a baby— wanted one enough to admit it, that is. The girls called me Victorian, said it 'was indecent to think about such things let alone talk about them—that nobody had families now-a-days. But I declared I would have a baby anyway and 'was going to accept the first chance I had. Here I am, grumbling along all alone and every one of them has a home filled with children. Every one of their homes will be filled with Christmas packages tonight, and rows of empty inviting stockings, shimmering, glimmering trees, merry laughter. I could go to any of them, yes, but they wouldn't be mine. I want something of my own—oh why couldn't I have just one baby? It was all I ever ere wanted." MY Tremaine's life had never been very happy except with such joy as one can get for service. Faithfully she had served and well and now that she was needed no longer she was left alone. First there had been her Mother —that sweet hard working little RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE soul, who had wakened one morning, when Amy was still a girl and wondered why there was no light. She wondered ail day and tried and hoped and prayed to see and when night came had surrendered to the inevitable and Amy's care. How devoted the girl had been. Never once did she allow a thought of herself to interfere with the care of her mother. Volume after volume she read to her. Every day when the weather permitted, she led her on long walks cautioning her about uneven paths, explaining the beauty of the scene, chattering gaily about everything and nothing to keep her mother happy and contented. Every one remarked about Amy's devotion—everyone thought it noble, wonderful in this day of thoughtless children, but no one offered to help make her burden lighter. Perhaps she might have married —she was pretty enough, sweet, attractive, charming when she wished to be but she resolutely put all thought of marriage aside and offered nothing but discouragement to those who sought her thinking always of her dear, blind little mother. In Amy's thirtieth year Mrs. Tremaine died and Amy, released from long, strenuous service, blossomed out into beautiful womanhood— gayer, brighter, fairer now than she had ever been. She was wooed by every eligible male in the countryside and at last gave her consent to one, Theodore Worley, a good man, good looking, clean, substantial. He would give Amy a fine home. Everyone in the little town was glad for Amy and she was supremely happy. (ee winter Jed Tremaine, who had made love to every girl he had ever met, yet had never married, nearly died with inflammatory rheu- HER CHRISTMAS GIFT matism. By April he was better but still 'bed-ridden so Amy postponed her marriage until fall. All during the summer she nursed Jed faithfully. His strength returned very slowly. Sometimes in bad weather his body, bent and cramped, ached so terribly that every effort he made to straighten even a finger brought forth a tortured cry. Amy did all the work of the little farm. Her soft white hands became rough and coarse, her hair she slicked close to her head and pushed up under an old hat of Jed's, her pretty clothes were put aside for overalls. What little time she could spare in the house she gave to Jed. When Theodore Worley came she released him from his promise. "I couldn't leave for another six months, anyway," she said, "And I can't hold you that long." He vowed she could and that he would wait forever for her but the next spring he married someone in town. Jed never got entirely well. Some days he tried to be of use outside but always after any particular exertion he spent the following day or days in bed. So eventually the entire care of the farm and of Jed came into Amy's capable hands. Sometimes when Jed 'was particularly trying or the work seemed more than she could manage she was on the point of giving it all up, of selling the little farm and moving into town. Living would be of the most frugal nature, no milk, no eggs or even comforts for Jed but at least she would be near someone. Then always she became ashamed of herself. 'Was she a weakling that she could not care for a small farm and a brother? There was another reason, too, why Amy clung to the old farm, another reason why life seemed to hold promise of something brighter. 639 HE fall before Jed was so sick, the "Poplars," the name the townsfolk had given the estate next to Amy's farm, was undergoing a complete renovation. The shambling, old fashioned house was being remodeled and modernized for the new residents. For twenty years the house had stood empty, the windows boarded, the gates leading to the drive, barred. Rank undergrowth covered the yard. Gardeners, plumbers, builders, came from the city. The little village was agog with the greatest excitement it had ever known. But Amy, her mind on something far more pleasant, had paid no heed to the comings and goings of her nearest neighbors. Not until Theodore Worley returned to the city and Jed's demands and complaints drove her nearly frantic did she turn to her neighbors and neighborhood gossip for solace. One day she saw a car come up the drive with David Worthen, the last of a famous old family, and a frail, doll-like little lady beside him whom gossip said was his new wife, coming here to regain health and strength. That was the only time Amy ever saw her. After a time there were nurses from the city, then doctors, then news that the Worthen's had been blessed with a baby boy. An evening sometime later Mr. Worthen himself brought a little parcel to Amy's back door. "I hate to trouble you, Miss Tremaine," he said, "But I'd appreciate it very much if you would care for my little David tonight. His mother is very, very ill. His nurse was taken with a severe cold and had to leave for town this morning. No other help can be spared now. A new nurse will come out on the. Morning train." 640 Would she care for him? She almost snatched the bundle from the man's arms. All night she sat _ rocking the baby, crooning softly and when in the morning the grief stricken father came for him she could hardly bear to give him up. She saw him occasionally after that always closely guarded by nurses. Mr. Worthen had decided to keep the house open just for the boy, coming out himself when business permitted.. When David Worthen was four he escaped the vigilant guard of his nurse one day and climbed through ' the fence to the Tremaine's barnyard. It was one of Jed's good days and he was puttering around the chickens and pigs trying to do something worth while. The baby, out of his element was fascinated by all he saw. Amy fotind him hanging to the chicken wire shouting in glee at the antics of the fowls. She took him in the house, washed his hands, and producing a cookie jar let him reach in and take one himself. "I'm always going to have a few cookies in there for you, David," she told him, "So if you do happen to come over you won't be disappointed." It happened just as Amy hoped it would. David eluded his nurse at every turn and made for the Tremaine's pantry and cookie jar until that conscientious woman was nearly beside herself. She made haste to report to Mr. Worthen but he only laughed. Said. "He'll never come to harm over there."