"Verse of Our Day" Gordon and King By Lais V. Hales pleasing book entitled "Verse Of Our Day" appeared off the press. It contained some three hundred and fifty poems representing the work of one hundred and thirty-four modern poets, both American and British. It was compiled by two women, both conducting classes in literature in New York City. They earnestly desired that through their teaching their students should develop a permanent interest in poetry. Having had trouble in linking such poems as Gray's "Elegy" and Goldsmith's "Deserted Village" with the student's experience they decided to bring the student in contact first with the poetry of his own day—to make him realize that there were "living authors." So they assigned as a term problem the compilation of an anthology of modern poetry to be selected both from magazines and books. "Verse Of Our Day" had its inspiration in this student anthology.. Out of many anthologies "Verse Of Our Day" stands out for its grouping method, its great variety, and the general excellence of the poetry included within its covers. The poems of Nature, Love and Friendship, the Sea, etc., are grouped together making comparison easily possible to either student or casual reader. The poetry reflects the tastes and interests of the adolescent. Many are of lyric quality for youth is essentially lyric. There are, however, many of contemplative mood which gives the book variety and universal appeal. As poetry A FEW days ago a rather small rather than poets has been the main aim of the compilers of "Verse Of Our Day" there are many poems of occasional poets. The aim has been to cultivate a taste for good poetry wherever we may find it, by known or unknown writers. Te is no better way to open the door of the child's mind to the beauty of the world around him than through the study of poetry. Poetry gathers the beautiful into words. The child instinctively loves poetry and it depends on the teachers and parents as to whether that love is blighted or developed. William Blake once said: "JT will give you the end of a golden string, Only wind it into a ball, It will lead you in at heaven's gate Built in Jerusalem's Wall." Whether the child will wind that golden string all through life will depend upon the way it is presented to him. All children should have access to a good anthology in which he may browse at his will. We have received more comfort, inspiration, intellectual and emotional experience, through poetry than any other literary form. Certain it is that poetry has a place in the life of every human being. Thomas Carlyle wrote—"We are all poets when we read a poem well." Just as truly we are poets when we respond to the beauty, rhythm, or thought of good poetry. Wee rise to the heights of the poet as we read: VERSE OF Red Geraniums "Life did not bring me silken gowns, Nor jewels for my hair, Nor sight of gabled, foreign towns In distant countries fair, But I can glimpse, beyond my pane, a green and friendly hill, And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill. "The brambled cares of every day, The tiny humdrum things, May bind 'my feet when they would stray, But still my heart has wings While red geraniums are bloomed against my window-glass, And low above my green-sweet hill the 'gypsy wind-clouds pass. "And if my dreamings ne'er come true The brightest and the best, But leave me lone my journey through T'll set my heart at rest, And thank thee, God, for home-sweet things, a green and friendly hill, And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill." —Martha Haskell Clark. We feel through this short poem the personality of its author; her love of beauty, her beautiful soul, her thankful attitude for "homesweet things." If her life is to be passed alone she will thank God that she has been allowed, "A green and friendly hill, "And red geraniums aflame upon my window-sill." We are not only touched and inspired by the poetry but also by the thought expressed. About good poetry there is something universal. We have all some vain regrets, some cheated desire. As we read this poem we rise to the noble, sacrificial attitude of its author. Ww eee is poetry? Poetry is old, so old that we have no history of poetry. It is so old that no man knows how and why the first poems came. We have old poems, some so old no man knows how far they go back in OUR DAY 661 time. Nobody knows who wrote them or whether they were first spoken centuries before they were written down to meet our eyes in books. What is poetry? Much has been written in an effort to explain what it is. Walt Whitman says— "The poet is the answerer" but what is the answerer. Another poet has said poetry is "emotion remembered in tranquility." As yet we have no adequate definition of poetry. What is poetry for any given individua: depends on that individual and what his personality responds to as poetry. What is poetry for one person is not for another. Because, as the leaves of the forest, no two of us are alike, we should have access to much poetry by many authors. Anthologies of poetry offer us just this. Because they are colored by the personalities of the compilers we should read from a number. We cannot measure the good derived from reading poetry. \We watched a child of tender years enjoy Lowry Nelson's three beautiful lines: "The silver river; Robbed of summer volume, Tries in vain to spread its pebbled ~ nest." We were almost awed by the look upon the face of that child. Not long ago we watched a silver-haired lady wrapped in the beauties of AS IN A ROSE-JAR "As in a rose-jar filled with petals sweet Blown long ago in some old garden place Mayhap, where you and I, a little space Drank deep of love and knew that love was fleet; Or leaves once gathered from a. Lost retreat By one who never will again retrace silent footsteps—one whose gentle ace Was fairer than the roses at her feet; 662 "So deep within the vase of memory I keep my dust of roses fresh and dear As in the days before I knew the smart Of time and death. Nor aught can take from me The haunting fragrance that still lingers here— As in a rose-jar, so within my heart." One of the best ways to interest people in the great poetry of the past is through the poetry of the present. "Verse Of Our Day" will do much for those who think poetry is difficult or dry. They will find here a poetry which touches so RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE closely their own thoughts and feelings that they are comforted and inspired. Life always looks grander, braver, fuller of worth-while things to the man or woman who reads. The poet sees, creates, and sings. After reading— "More soft than press of baby lips They fleck the russet willow-slips Before the bluebirds hither wing— These first, faint footfalls of Spring." how much more one sees in the pussy-willows. Thus poetry enriches our lives in a thousand ways.