[Against the Breath by C. Cameron Johns]

Against the Breath C. Cameron Johns Though silence clarions for a spoken word To fill its depths, The heart is hesitant in giving Broken phrases that the lips rehearsed; Once...
Words came as quickly As the flow of hill-sped nvers; Now they are dissolved Like mists caught in the sun. The soul draws closer to its own candle As if to hoard its warmth Against the breath Blowing through the halls of loneliness. 213 WV extend a cordial invitation to our i, Dw Sn PREEN DS to visit our beautiful new stove. Salt Lake Knit 54
South Main Salt Lake City
PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES
Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. Thee,, Deseret News Press 40
Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah You Women are Needed In time of emergency, qualified mature women are in demand for essential office work. Attractive pay schedules prevail, and much of this work can be done in addition to regular employment, or other duties. Inquire about refresher courses in: beginning and * Typewriting * Office Machines * Bookkeeping * Shorthand * General Office Work Both Day and Evening School Increase your market value and income with training at the L. D. S. Business College, where you're given personal attention and counsel and job placement opportunities. You're Cordially Welcome at I, iy) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70
North Main Salt Lake City Dee ee eee ee ee - Send for Yours en ere eR wires PORTER-WALTON CO. 550 So. 6th East © Salt Lake City, Utah Mountain grown ROSES SHRUBS TREES FLOWER and VEGETABLE SEEDS 
She Shall Have Music (Continued from page 157) at Parley. She realized now it was his little imperfections that made him lovable. Behind Parley's dickering and conniving, she saw 4. Quality of warmth, a lovingness that had been lying fallow. Ann wanted to tell him these things, how wonderful she thought he was, for new love had opened up like a water lily in her heart. But the words couldn't leap the lump in her throat. Parley's arms encircled her then, and holding her tightly and leaning over gently, he placed his lips on her pink flushed ear. Each word was laid out alone, like an important jewel, as he whispered "She Shall have... Music." Visiting Seachers Eva J. Lillywhite You have learned that wealth and knowledge Do not compensate, on earth, For the heartthrobs that are needed By the humble souls of worth. You have learned that fate and error Meet at crossroads of despair; And you hasten, full of mercy, With your balm of faith and prayer. Could you know your worth of service, As the angels do above, You would feel: true satisfaction In your realm of faith and love. NEwW===HNoOmMe DELUXE SEWING MACHINE DOES EVERYTHING! @ ZIGZAGS @ HEMSTITCHES @ BUTTONHOLES AUTOMATICALLY @ TUCKS ALL 14 @ RUFFLES FEATURES: — oo @ QUILTS $180.90 @ BINDS @ SEWS LACE (Zigzagger, Hemsticher, OTHER MODELS @ lel aaa and Buttonholer included) $69.95 - e ed UNDER and UP Why Pay More?; i HERE'S A MACHINE YOU CAN AFFORD UNDER PRESENT CREDIT RESTRICTIONS GUARANTEED FOR 20 YEARS MADE IN AMERICA SINCE 1860
Made to solve all your family sewing problems! Examination and trial by ward and stake Relief Societies also invited. SEE THE DEALER IN YOUR COMMUNITY JACKSON DISTRIBUTING CO. 
From Thame Lillian Swenson Feltman, wife of Lynn Merrill Feltman, and mother of three sons, was educated in the schools of Logan, Utah, and has been interested in writing since early childhood. She has written.
Many short stories and _ several novels.
Some of her work has achieved publication, and her story "The Sewing Kit Speaks,' marks her first appearance in The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs.
Feltman is very much interested in genealogical research, and finds much pleasure in research and record keeping. The Magazine is better and better each year. I am always so proud of it.
Many of my friends in the writers' club are delighted to see it, and I loan them copies quite often. I loved Alice Morrey Bailey's poem "Lot's Wife" (first prize poem, January 1951). It impressed me very much. Mrs.
Bailey is a very gifted: person. —Beatrice K. Ekman, Portland, Oregon I love the writings of Anna Prince Redd. I knew her when I was a girl living in Monticello, Utah. She has always been an inspiration to me.
Every story, poem, and article which she writes for the Magazine. Incidentally, Mary Ann Baker, who wrote the words for the song "Master, The Tempest Is _ Raging," was my great-grandmother. She wrote the words to this song while on the high seas on her voyage from London to America, with her three children, one of whom was my grandmother Fannie Godfrey DeFrieze Jarvis. —Millie E. J. 'Titus, Tucson, Arizona I was very happy to place in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, since I have tried to do so many times before. I enjoy the good company of former winners, and with the moving poems of Julia Nelson and Ruth Chadwick who placed with me (January 1951). The literary quality and the fine religious tone of the Magazine make me proud that it is an organ of my Church, and I am always proud to have my work appear within its pages. —Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah  I look forward to. I desire to thank you for publishing my poem "Things to Remember" in the August (1950) issue of our Magazine. It is not often that I get up the courage to try, but I do love the Magazine so much. We have felt in our home that you have made The Relief Society Magazine very beautiful and most interesting. My husband always reads it through, and seems to like it best of all the magazines we subscribe to. He was a little disappointed that there was no Christmas story to read aloud this time. I think that if... Our sisters would read the articles in The Relief Society Magazine they might find great help and comfort in so doing. —Eleanor W. Schow, Brigham City, Utah Today I received the January issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I like Mrs. Bailey's poem "Lot's Wife" (first prize poem) exceptionally well. It is unique. —Grace Ingles Frost, Provo, Utah I have just been rereading my December issue of the Magazine, and I am truly looking forward to the January issue. I have been, enjoying this Magazine for almost two years now, thanks to a precious little lady at Riverton, Utah, Gladys Butterfield. May our Eternal Father shower his richest blessings on her and on the people who put out the Magazine, and on the organization behind the Magazine, and on the Church. I read my Magazines through and through. Then I reread many of the articles and pass the Magazines around to my neighbors. —Mrs. Shelby. Echols, Glenwood, Arkansas When you notice our Magazine subscriptions you will see what a lot of good it did me to come to conference. We have Arlington, Chevy Chase, and Washington Wards with over 100 per cent, and most of the rest over seventy-five per cent. We made charts such as I saw demonstrated in the Magazine meetIng.,; = Knudson, Arlington, Virginia Your "College grade" courses in education, offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00