[For the Strength of the Hills — Chapter 2 by Mabel Harmer]

Strength of the Hills | —— Synopsis: Camilla Fenton, an orphan who lives with an aunt in Santa Monica, California, arrives at the railroad station near Crandall, Idaho, where she is employed as the new schoolteacher. Stanley Rodgers, a farmer, takes her in his jeep to the home of Mrs. Whipple, a widow who takes boarders.
Camilla finds out that Stanley is unmarried and that he is going out with Marcia Ellertson. At a dance, Stan dances with her. |: HE first week of school passed somehow, much to Camilla's surprise. 'Twenty-five students in four different grades, she decided, was something only a paragon should be required to cope with, and she readily admitted to herself that she was far from being a paragon—as far as schogieesouing was concerned, anyway. At any rate I have today aud tomorrow in which to catch my breath, she thought gratefully as she ate breakfast on Saturday morning. By noon she had not only caught her breath but had become thoroughly bored even with reading and letter writing. "Tll go sketching," she announced, with sudden inspiration. "Tt would be a shame to waste this lovely day indoors." She dug out paper and crayons, put on a woolen suit and Oxfords, and started out for the foothills, where the yellow aspens were interspersed with clumps of crimson scrub oak and maple. - There was absolutely no reason, she told herself, why she shouldn't go by way of the Rodgers farm. The  it could road there was as good as any, probably better. The view from the hill would also be as good, or better than any.
There were men working out in the fields when she passed, but at such a distance she couldn't tell one from another. Her boredom of the morning vanished, and she felt happy all through. The contrast of the © purple sage and yellow aspens was fascinating, and she sketched with the most genuine pleasure she had felt in months. It is absurd, she told herself, to spend all of one's life in the same place.
Maybe next year I'll go to Alaska or Canada, well, Puget Sound, anyway. Her pleasant daydreaming was interrupted by a faint rustle, and she looked up to see a grayish brown animal watching her from a short distance away. For a moment she sat paralyzed with fright. She supposed it was a coyote—it just couldn't be a wolf—and people said that coyotes weren't dangerous. But probably tell that she was scared to death and would come right at her. She knew that the proper thing to do would be to stand her ground and act defiant, but she couldn't.
Picking up her things, she fled down the hillside as fast as she could go, not even looking behind to see if the beast was following her.
Even when she had reached the edge of. The Rodgers farm she couldn't slow down, although she FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS was so weak from fright that she all but dropped in the road. She had another fright when Stan popped up from behind a clump of bushes and called, "What's your hurry, lady?
Going to catch a train?" "No," she replied, her fright melting away, "but I'd like to, at the moment. I went up on the hill to sketch, and I was surrounded by wild beasts." "You don't say!" he drawled. "How many and what species?" "Only one, that I actually saw," she admitted. "But I'm sure that he had a whole pack right behind him." "Cougar?" he asked. She was tempted to let it 20 at that, but, after a moment's pause, confessed, '""No, it was a coyote, I think, although it might have been a wolf." "There aren't any wolves around here," he scoffed, "and I didn't think that a big girl like you would be afraid of a coyote. All you'd have to do is throw one rock and he'd hightail it for the peaks so fast you couldn't see him for dust." "Well, I didn't happen to know that, so I did the hightailing instead." He grinned tolerantly and offered, "Wait until I get the jeep and I'll run you down." She accepted his offer gratefully, for the hills were much farther away than they had looked, and the run had tired her considerably.
When they stopped in front of Mrs. Whipple's house he produced a pair of apples from somewhere and handed her one, which she sat munching with a curious sense of 193 elation. At the moment she could think of no pastime more desirable than sitting in a jeep and.
Eating apples. "Would you like to go to a barn dance tonight?" he asked, throwing his core across the road. "A real barn dance! Oh, I'd love it!' she exclaimed, her eyes glowing.: "Okay. Ill pick you up about eight—if I can get the chores done by then. And listen," he cautioned, "don't let on to anyone else that you ran away from a poor little old coyote." HE laughed as he helped her out and ran up the path to the house. A barn dance! It would be lots of fun.
What should she wear? A cotton print, probably. She had a very nice paisley print with a wide skirt. | She put away her drawing materials and brought out the dress to give it a pressing. She really would have liked to check with Mrs.
Whipple to be sure that it was appropriate, but her landlady had gone into town, as the next place was known, and had left supper out on the table. ) It won't matter anyway, she thought.
People wear prints everywhere now. I can't go wrong. She tied a yellow ribbon around her auburn curls and waited impatiently for Stan to come. "The chores!'' She grumbled as the clock hands moved around to eighty-thirty. "What a country.
Even a Saturday night date has to wait on the chores." He came whistling up the walk and made no apologies when she opened the door. Instead, he 194 handed her a white kitten and said amiably, ""Here's something to take the place of your beau back home." "Thanks very much," she said. "It won't be quite the same, but it will help." She held it up to her cheek as she added, "It really is sweet. I had a kitten once long before, before—" she stopped. It was hard to explain Aunt Lillian, who believed in so few of the things that Camilla herself believed in. She set the kitten on the floor and asked, "Do I look all right? I mean—the other girls will be wearing dresses, won't they?" "To a barn dance? You're all tight. You look good enough to eat." | "That should be good enough," she smiled. A few minutes later when: they arrived at the dance she saw that her outfit was definitely not all right. She was the only girl there not wearing a pair of levis, and she was very much afraid they would think she was acting "high hat." She was almost sure that there was a noticeable coolness towards her, although she couldn't determine whether it was due to her clothes or the fact that she had taken Stan away from a local girl. She did her very best to be friendly with everyone and had a good time in spite of the undercurrent of disapproval. It was impossible not to have a good time with Stan, she decided. | The thought crossed her mind that perhaps it was just because she was away from home that he seemed so fascinating and that it might be different in her familiar background.
Then she remembered _ buy.  that Boyd had seemed uninteresting for the very same reason and that she had hoped to make up her mind by going away.
What kind of a mugwump was she, anyway, she asked herself? Did she have to get her friends against a particular background to know what kind of feelings she had towards them? She had no answer. All she knew was that she enjoyed every minute of the time she spent with Stan. "THE first real snowstorm of the winter came early in December and she donned the galoshes that Mrs.
Whipple had warned her to She hadn't dreamed that the © mere matter of keeping warm could be such a problem. At Mrs. Whipple's the only heat came from the kitchen range and a heatrola in the front room, while at school there was only a stove in the middle of the room that roasted one side while the other practically froze. She was sitting at her desk one Friday afternoon correcting papers when she happened to glance up and see little Aline Wakely still in her seat. "Why didn't you go in the school bus?" she asked., "Daddy said that he might come into town and that if he did he would pick me up." "Oh, dear, you shouldn't have waited," said Camilla, very much disturbed. "I'm ready to go home now, and I can't leave you here. I suppose that I had best walk down the road with you until we meet him." | They put on their wraps and hurried out. As they started down the road Camilla called to one of the FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS school children, "Will you please go over and tell Mrs.
Whipple that ''m walking home with Aline Wakely. I'll get back as soon as I can." She was hopeful that she wouldn't have to go any great distance, for Mr.
Wakely surely was on the way. She noticed the clouds were getting very dark and the wind was beginning to rise. It might even storm before she got back, she worried. Be awfully lucky if it didn't. She really shouldn't have let herself in for this, she reasoned, now that it was too late to turn back. She should have insisted that the child come home with her. She had just about given up hope now that Mr.
Wakely would meet them. If he had been coming into town, he would have come long before this.
They tramped along, the wind whipping against them, and at last Aline said, ""That's our house over there." "Then I'll stand here and watch until you reach the door," said Camilla. "In that way [PIl know that you are getting home ll right." 'There was no need, she told herself, to struggle through any more of that snow than she had to.
Aline left, and Camilla waited impatiently, thumping her cold feet one against the other to try to work up the circulation.
When the child had reached the house and disappeared inside, she turned to go back down the road. The snowflakes were beginning to fall now, and the wind was rising. She would have to hurry or she might be in for a serious time. In fact, she'd | 195
She couldn't get caught in a storm out here. It was all of a mile to the house—maybe more. It certainly seemed like more. In a few minutes the storm broke in earnest, and she couldn't even see the farmhouses along the way, otherwise she would have turned into one of them and phoned for help or asked someone to take her on home. THE wind had risen now so that the snow stung her face and drifted about her feet. Why hadn't someone warned her, she thought bitterly, what a terrible thing a blizzard could be? But then, who would ever have supposed that she would take off into one by herself? Oh, to be back in California where, in spite of earthquakes or floods, you could always see where you were going! At this very moment her aunt might be sitting out on the patio enjoying the sunshine.
Boyd might be driving along the ocean front, without a coat, and with the top of his convertible rolled down, while she was stumbling along in a blinding snowstorm.
Once she fell and had to force herself to get back on her feet again. She had a feeling that if it happened once more she wouldn't be able to get up. She was so weary from struggling against the wind and drifting snow that she could hardly push one foot in front of the other. I can't possibly drag myself all the way back, she thought. I might just as well give up now. But she found that she couldn't give up—that she had to fight on as long as she had an ounce of energy left.
Another gust of snow-laden wind hit her with such force that 196 she cried out and thought that she must have been imagining when she heard Stan's voice call, "Camilla!_ Where are you?" "Here! Here!" she cried, sinking down into the snow, now that she no longer had to rely on her own efforts. The next minute his arms were around her, and he was helping her into the jeep. "What in the world were you thinking of to go out in this storm?" he scolded as he wrapped blankets around her. "I never saw anyone so crazy. You're scared of a coyote, but you tackle a blizzard." The scolding was too much for Camilla, on top of everything else, and she started to cry. "I'm sorry, honey," he said, taking her in his arms. "It's just because I was nearly crazy cole When Mrs.
Whipple phoned that you had gone to take that kid home in this storm I was scared to death."  He tucked the blankets more closely around her and started up the jeep.
Camilla sat in a daze. I can't be in love, she thought. I can't be tingling with joy at the thought of spending my life in a place like this. It must be that I'm only halfconscious. But, in spite of her bewildered questioning, the fact remained that nothing in her whole life before had ever stirred her as his words had done., They were at the house in a few | minutes, where Mrs.
Whipple was waiting anxiously with hot water bottles, hot broth, and everything else that she had been able to lay her hands on.
Stan stayed just long enough to see that she was going to be all right, but before he left he took her hand for a moment and whispered, "T told you that we always keep the red-headed ones." | (To be continued) Jo a Fountain Dana Benson I stood and watched a fountain playing in the square, A shining jet of silver bursting through the air.
Here was a living, leaping thing, a laughing spray - Of singing water gleaming in the sunless day. I wished poetic thoughts could come like this to me, A freshly springing fountain flowing strong and free To force the inward joy that nothing could suppress— In spite of fogs that come and dim real happiness.
Play on, gay fountain, let the world go roaring by And fling your message like a challenge to the sky.
Lift up your argent voice above the busy town, And let your misty joys bring sorrows tumbling down. Soup INlakes the Ileal Sara Mills A French politician once urged that before a woman be allowed to marry she should first learn how to make soup.
That was nearly two hundred years ago, and no law came from his efforts. But today there are still men who wish he had succeeded.
Good soup nourishes not only the body but the heart of man. It can soothe him when he is worried and bolster his courage when the day is dark and the world is gray.
Soup is necessary in summer as well as in winter. It can be an appetizer to a meal or the meal itself. The woman who serves an inspired soup is forgiven if the roast is burned or the pie crust soggy.: For purposes of brevity, we may discuss three kinds of soup: (1) thin clear soups to stimulate the appetite—consomme, bouillon, broth; (2) hearty soups—thick vegetable soups, chowders, pepper pot, and minestrone; (3) cream soups, thin or light. All meat soups have stock for a base.
Master the art of stock making, and you are well on the way. Fresh, uncooked meat, aided by cracked bones, is the best source. The bones are important because they provide nourishment and flavor. The jelly-like content of cold stock will tell you if you have enough of the bone substance. Of all the soup meats, the shin is the most popular. The neck takes longer cooking, but its soup has more flavor and strength. A veal knuckle is a good choice to go with the shin or neck. You may instead use chicken or turkey bones, or the bones of wild game birds if you are lucky enough to have them. Now for the cooking technique.
Soup meat should always be put to cook in cold water and allowed to simmer slowly until the meat is tender. You may even allow the cold water to stand over the meat for an hour before cooking. 'The cooking stock should never be boiled fast. If more water is needed, add it boiling to retain the flavor. And underline this last, please: If you want brown stock, sear the meat and bones in their own fat before cooking.
When the stock is made, you have your base. For a light or hearty soup. Remember, the stock can be stored in the refrigerator for several days.
Stock kept over a day is best sealed with its own fat, to be removed before reheating.
CLEAR BEEF SOUP
For each one and one-half pounds of beef, use one pound of bone and one quart of cold water, and about one-half teaspoon of salt for each quart of water. Wash the meat and bones in cold water and place in a soup kettle. Add cold water and salt. Bring to a gradual boil and let boil gently for a few minutes while the scum is carefully removed. When the scum is gone add the following vegetables (amounts are for each two quarts of water used): scraped carrot cut in several pieces small white turnip pared and quartered large onion, peeled and studded with 2 whole cloves thin slice of garlic piece of parsnip the size of a walnut, pared and cut in several pieces 1
Stalk of celery cut into inch pieces ep  198,, - -  bay leaf dozen sprigs of fresh parsley sprig of thyme leek 8 peppercorns, gently crushed (Tie bay leaf, parsley, thyme, and leek together with white thread) ae ae ee) Bring the stock and vegetables to a boil and let simmer until the meat is tender. To serve, strain the hot soup, season to taste, and serve. If you wish a clear consomme, let cool and remove the cake of fat. If you wish a vegetable soup, add vegetables finely cut to the hot stock, and let boil gently until the vegetables are just tender. You may also add tomatoes, solid or juice, and any or a number of the soup pastes or rice, and cook until done.
Serve with a handful of finely chopped parsley on top and grated Parmesan cheese, along with oven-toasted, buttered French bread. MINESTRONE Minestrone is to me the soup of soups. I waited years for a certain wandering gentleman who promised that he would someday come to our home to make minestrone for us. The recipe that follows is my version of his method.
Minestrone should use only young and tender vegetables. It must be thick with them, and don't serve it unless you have freshly grated Parmesan cheese..
Bring two quarts of the beef stock made by the above recipe to a boil and add: several strips of salt pork (about % Ib.) lc.
Cooked chick peas lc.
Fresh kidney beans (cooked dried ones may be substituted ) 2 stalks celery, scraped and cut fine 1 C. Mew peas 1% c.
Shredded cabbage lc.
Shredded spinach (chard for second choice). ¥% c.
Diced carrots | 2 or 3 peeled fresh tomatoes chopped (juice to taste may be substituted ) " ¢.
Uncooked white rice salt, pepper, a sprig of sage 1 ~ ¢.
Sliced potatoes may be used.
Simmer until the vegetables are tender, taste for seasoning, and add enough hot stock to thin the soup to your liking. 4 ONION SOUP FROM BROWN STOCK This is a soup for soup lovers and is served as an appetizer. For each four persons to be served, use one pound of lean chuck or boiling meat (cut into inch cubes).
Brown the cubes in beef fat, add five cups cold water, bring to a boil, add the salt, and. Let simmer until the meat is tender. For each four persons use: good sized red onions - _ butter 1 level tbsp. Flour: salt and pepper Peel and slice onions and brown in butter until the onions are a delicate brown and tender. Add flour and stir until the flour has been absorbed and lightly browned. To the boiling stock add the onions and boil gently for thirty-five minutes.
Season to taste with salt and pepper. — To serve, pour the soup into a large oven-proof serving dish, top with slices of buttered toast on which have been placed slices of Swiss or Parmesan cheese.
Slide the dish into the oven and leave until the cheese is melted.
Serve at once in the same dish. Anniversary Alms _ Mildred R.
Stutz married fifteen years and had five children. It isn't easy to save money for such things as anniversary gifts, with tonsilectomies and haircuts and new shoes to worry about. But Melissa had done it. She had saved twenty dollars!
Twenty dollars shaved off the grocery bill, from tinting and mending the upstairs curtains, and from giving herself a home permanent. Dan was to have a sports coat. For fifteen years Melissa had seen Dan attend every high-school football game of the season looking overdressed and uncomfortable in his business suit. 'This year things would be different. Dan would have a smart, brand new sports coat.
Melissa spoke to herself as she went about her kitchen, "There's ~ a sale on at Mercers, I'll go there and—no, I won't either. [Il go to Taylors. 'Their things are just a little nicer than Mercers'. I'll buy Dan a coat he can really be proud of.
After the children have their lunch and go back to school, ll take little Davey and we'll go shopping. How would you like that, Davey?" she asked, turning to her three-year-old son who had entered the kitchen and was standing quietly beside the screened door. For a moment he returned her smile and then guiltily followed her eyes to his muddy shoes. "Oh, David," Melissa moaned, "you've been playing in the water again, and I've told you over and over to stay out of it." She knelt Mss and Dan had been them less than two weeks. On the floor and examined the little shoes, and David, having received his punishment, promptly started pulling bobby pins from his mother's hair. "Just look at your shoes," Melissa continued, "the soles are completely worn through, and you've worn David, I ought to spank you for this."
Melissa arose, returned the bobby pins to her hair, and Davey scampered out of doors, the scolding forgotten.
Melissa continued to herself as she went about the kitchen, "Maybe, if I can get Dan a coat for sixteen dollars, Pll have enough left to buy David a pair of shoes. I hate to do it, but he can't go barefoot and. The budget is already stretched to the bursting point." She finished the dishes thoughtfully and then, smiling to herself, said optimistically, "Well, Pll go to the sale at Mercers. 'They have good merchandise, too." HE finished her kitchen work and started lunch, 'then she sudsed out her hose and Bonnie's white sweater so David could wear it that afternoon to go uptown. She was hanging it to dry when the telephone rang. She glanced anxiously at lunch simmering on the stove and hurried to answer. "Hello—oh, hello, Edith. No, I'm not busy. How are you anyway? I haven't seen you since our last meeting."
Melissa listened for a moment and a smile crept across her face. "Edith, that's wonderful," she exclaimed, "I'm so happy for  200 you! It will be so much company for you with Jim gone so much and the older ones in school.
Believe me, I enjoy Davey no end. How are you feeling?"
Melissa glanced toward the kitchen. It was wonderful, of course, but lunch was beginning to scorch. "Look, Edie," she cut in, "why don't you drop in some afternoon and we'll have a real visit?... Oh, yes, the Children's Hospital fund. I'll pay you next time I see you," she promised vague- --ly "Oh, I don't blame you for wanting to wind everything up, but Edith, you mean that I'm the only one who hasn't paid? I'm so sorty. How much did we decide to donate?
Five dollars? [ll stop in this afternoon and pay you. Bye."
Back in the kitchen she rescued lunch from a fiery doom and proceeded to set the table. The dickens with the money! ELISSA murmured again to herself as she went about her kitchen, "Twenty dollars, minus four for shoes, and five for the hospital leaves...
Eleven dollars for Dan's sport coat. I can't even look at one for that price." She finished setting the table thoughtfully and then, smiling triumphantly, decided, "I know what Pil do. Ill go to a secondhand store! You can buy anything for a song at one of those places. It's a beautiful idea and Dan can still have his sports coat!" The front door closed quietly, and Melissa's fourteen-year-old daughter, Helen, came in. She was a tall; thin girl, immature for her age and very sensitive.
Melissa had lengthened her skirt by adding a  tuffle at the bottom, but nothing could be done about her coat, which stopped far above her knees, and whose cuffs failed to cover her bony wrists. "Hello, Helen, you're a little early, aren't you?" greeted Melissa. "Hello, Mother." The girl stood awkwardly for a moment as if summoning courage for a plunge. "Mother," she began again and then, taking a deep breath, continued, "Mother, can't I.
Possibly have a new coat?"
Melissa cringed inwardly. "Darling, you know I'd get you a new coat today if I had the money." ~ "But, Mother, couldn't you borrow from the grocery money or something? 'There's a sale at Mercers Ada got one for only twelve | and a 'half and.. Oh, Mon, it's just awful to be gawky."
Melissa refused to meet the | pleading look in her daughter's eyes. "Helen," she said firmly, "you're not gawky. You're a very lovely little girl, As for the coat, Dear, I'll definitely get one for you before Christmas. Maybe, if all goes well, you can have it before _ Thanksgiving. But nght now, I just don't have the money. You understand don't you, Darling?" "Yes, Mother, I guess so." 'The child turned away, and Melissa knew she was hiding tears. Her thin little shoulders slumped in defeat, and the ugly old coat strained across them.
Melissa braced herself. GHE thought, what fun would Dan have wearing a new sports coat when his daughter was eating her heart out?
Weakly she started ANNIVERSARY ALMS to speak, "Helen," then paused and said decisively, "Helen, come here. I have an idea. I've got eleven dollars. I've saved it for an anniversary gift for your father. But we'll take this eleven dollars and borrow a dollar and a half from the grocery money, and we'll go to Mercers after school and buy you a new coat!"
Tears of joy rose in Helen's eyes and ran down her thin little cheeks. "Oh, Mother, I couldn't take your money.... I just couldn't! There's a darling gray coat there's a blue one I like, too. Oh, 201
Mom, you're so swell! I know we can get a beautiful coat for twelve fifty." "Tm sure we can, too, Dear," smiled Melissa. Melissa said to herself, as she cleared away the lunch dishes, "I know what I'll do. [Il make him a cake. It will be a chocolate cake with nuts on top. I'll get some ice cream and invite the Bradys and Cromwells in for the evening. Dan seemed to thoroughly enjoy himself last year. But next year Dan will definitely get his sports coat," said Melissa. O-<iP-2—