[She Shall Have Music — Third Prize Story by Frances Carter Yost]

Shall Have Music Frances Carter Yost HE warm golden sunlight poured over the valley like butter and honey. The leaves of the climbing vine outside the window turned listlessly. As Ann Marley watched Parley working in the nearby field, time seemed to dissolve with the sound of his mower. For three days now Ann _ had wanted to tell Parley about the spinet piano the Warrens had for sale, but every time he was around words congealed in her throat. If it had been a new washer, or a sewing machine, or even a deep freeze, practical Parley would understand the need. He would even get busy doing some dickering to see that she had it. But a piano, to Parley, would be considered a toy, something to play with.
Parley wouldn't want to pay his hard-earned money for a piano.
Parley didn't know either about the inward music in Ann's soul, the deep desire which had somehow spun itself, through the years, into a hard ball of dissatisfaction., Then from nowhere and everywhere the memory came. It surged into Ann's mind like a wave breaking on a beach and washed away the view of vine and scented hay fields. Ann fought against the memory, for the recollections were distasteful Ann was twelve years of age, twelve, with its problems and _ perenough to play for church. FRANCES CARTER YOST plexities, and a deep urge for music. "Daddy do you s'pose we could buy a piano? Oh, it doesn't have to be a brand new one," Ann added quickly, "just an upright that has keys and will sound the right notes." Jacob Coles looked over his newspaper at his youngest daughter, a thin, gangling, skimmed-milk slip of a girl. "What do you want with a piano?" Ann's father inquired. His older daughters hadn't pestered him about such things. Ann seemed to be different. "T want one to play, Daddy. If 'had a piano here at home to practice on I could learn to play well I just  154 know I could, Daddy!" Ann pleaded her case with her eyes water-logged, and her hands tight clasped. "How do you know play?" Jacob Coles hadn't taken the time to get acquainted with this daughter before. It was hard at this late date. He found himself wishing she would go about her play, so he could return to his newspaper.
What was she saying? "Oh, I can play, Daddy. I can! I play on the church piano every day the doors are open." Ann Dlurted out her secret and immediately regretted it. "And who gave you permission to enter the church?" Jacob Coles snatched at an opportunity to be done with the piano subject. His long, narrow eyes were surprisingly green, like blades of grass. "Why Why no one," Ann stammered. "But nobody would care. I just play the piano. I don't hurt anything." Ann made an impulsive gesture with her hands. "Don't raise your voice, Ann." Jacob Coles modulated his own voice and turned the corners of his mouth into a somewhat uncertain smile. "Who taught you to play, Ann?" }: "Nobody, Daddy. I just pick tunes out by ear. I know they aren't exactly right," Ann added, hopefully, "'though they do sound good. If I had a piano I could take some lessons." Ann regretted this last statement. She hadn't meant to approach the subject of lessons until she had safely acquired a piano. "TI couldn't give you advantages your older sisters didn't have, Ann," Mr.
Coles said, fairness and firmyou can  ness being his policy. "And remember, no going into the church again except for services." Mr.
Coles resumed his reading. Ann knew her interview was over. She had humbled herself, had revealed her secrets—her innermost desires.
Even the daily rendezvous at the church must stop. She had gambled everything she had on a chance of getting a piano in her home, but she had failed to convince her father. Ann never mentioned the piano, or music lessons to anyone from that day forward. She hadn't gone to the church to play the piano, for. 'Jacob Coles' family: followed his wishes to the letter. Ann _ had grown up, had moved about in the whirlpool of life, with the desire for music burning in her being. * OK KK és] must talk to Parley about the Warren piano right today," Ann said aloud, though no one was within earshot.
Else will buy it first." She opened the screen door and started walking toward the hay field. Now the logical time to bring up an important subject with Parley was when he was rested and well-fed, and sitting in his chair with his slippers on and his evening paper in his hands. Saw again, in her mind's eye, her father's long, slit green eyes as they peered at her over a newspaper.
That approach hadn't worked out then, and she wouldn't risk it now. She decided to try the hay field this time, and hurried faster toward the moving mowing machine. As Parley mowed the fresh green hay, the scented clover sprayed the "If I don't someone - But Ann © SHE SHALL HAVE MUSIC air with sweet perfume. Ann watched him riding the mower around and around the field, cutting wide swaths.
Usually he reminded Ann of a Roman in a twowheel chariot when he worked on the tractor. 'Today, however, her mind tugged at the spinet piano which the Warrens had for sale. She started to run through the cut hay, then stopped, for she didn't want to appear like a house afire. She must be calm and collected with her approach. She musn't fumble now as she had done so many years ago. As she neared the mower, Parley stopped the tractor and wiped the sweat from his brow with the-back of his glove and jumped off into the shade of the tractor. "I made some punch," Ann said, pouring out a glass, "and some cookies." "Good girl," Parley said, with a grin. "Let's sit here in the tractor shade and eat some together. The hay is clean and cool." Parley Marley was a handsome fellow, even with the dirt of the day upon him. He had a lean, brown face under thick waves of dark, unruly hair. He had won his callouses as an honest hard-working farmer, and enjoyed the fruits of his labor. He drove a good bargain in selling his product, and was known for his ability to get the better of a deal in all tradings. Within Ann's soul, timidity fought a battle with desire. To approach the subject of the piano was now or never.
Parley noted a bright pink flush on her cheeks, and her lips trembled.
When she spoke, however, it was with her usual calmness. Ly into his brown ones. 155 "Parley, the Warrens have their spinet piano for sale. I I want to buy it." Ann had laid her problem out in one sentence. She realized she should have been more conniving, but it was good to have worded her desire, as if she had dispelled a large gas balloon from around her heart. "A spinet piano!
Good grief, Girl!
What are you thinking of?"
Parley whistled. 'Then he smiled at Ann as if she were joking. "T mean it, Parley, I want to buy it." Ann's blue eyes looked directNow the subject was out, she had to see it through. "We can manage. I'll skimp and save, honest I will."
Parley pointed to the sky getting black behind the deep blue of the afternoon. "See those clouds, Ann. I've got to get this hay down and baled before the rain breaks."
With one leap Parley straddled his tractor seat, and started the motor. Ann called above the tractor's hum: "What about the piano?"
Parley merely waved as he started mowing again. Ann picked up the empty pitcher, the glasses, and the cookie plate.
Again she had gambled everything on her inward desire for music.
Again she had failed. She found herself balancing her father's answer—'"I couldn't give you advantages the older girls didn't have," with that of Parley's, "Good grief, Girl, a spinet piano!
What are you thinking of?" The scales balanced. * OK KOK NN had fried chicken, hot rolls, and sliced tomato salad arranged attractively on the table when Parley entered the cheery breakfast 156 nook after his shower that evening. He was dressed in a tan sports shirt and gabardine slacks. He hadn't said he had a Farm Bureau meeting, and it wasn't ball practice ~ night., "Going places?" Ann questioned as they finished eating. "Yeah, yeah. I have to see a fellow. I'm dickering on some machinery," Parley said, wiping his mouth with his napkin. "Machinery?" Ann almost bit the word. Why, Parley had the latest and best machinery for his farming. Was machinery always more important than a piano? Was it wrong, Ann asked herself, to invest in inner qualities, the heart, the mind, the spirit? Yet to bring up the subject of the Warren piano again would be useless.
Parley folded his napkin carefully, pushed in his chair, and went over to the back of Ann's chair and tipped her chin up. "Good supper..
Good girl. Now excuse me, honey. I gotta hurry, but I'll be back soon.' He kissed her on both cheeks and was gone. "More machinery," Ann sobbed, "more machinery." her vision that she didn't see the car drive away. Ann was in the living room embroidering some dish towels for the Relief Society bazaar, when the car slid to the curb.
Parley unfolded himself as he got out of the car, and walked up to the house. He wasn't whistling, which meant one thing, he hadn't been successful. He dropped into his favorite easy chair, not even bothering to take off his sports jacket. But he didn't pick up the evening paper as usual. He just sat, chewing on the end of a Tears so veiled — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 195] match, a trait he always had when he figured and dickered.
After a long silence, Ann said: "Did you buy?" She kept her eyes glued on her sewing. "Buy what?"
Parley questioned back. He had thrown one leg over the arm of the chair, but still chewed on the match and mentally tabulated and figured. "Why the machinery you went to see about," Ann answered. Her outward placid disposition was a triumph of mind over matter.
There was a long silence. "Ann," Parley spoke at length, his voice almost inaudible, "is a piano worth two fifty?" "Piano!" 'The word lifted Ann's soul, and sent it off into space again. "Yeah, a piano like that spinet of Warten's, " Parley said in a wry way of his, still chewing on the match and making mental tabulations. "Oh, Parley!» Ann dropped her sewing and came over and put her arms around his neck. "You're a dear." "Wait a minute!"
Parley chewed his match and stopped to recon- © noiter. "I didn't say I bought a piano. I merely stated that they wanted two hundred and fifty dollars for it." "Then you turned that grand offer down? Oh, Parley, that was a wonderful buy," Ann reasoned unreasonably. Her arms fell limp from his neck with disappointment and hung at her sides. "What else could I do? 'They wouldn't dicker, Baby."" It was not so much a question of money with Parley, as a question of values. "They wouldn't even knock off ten bucks.
What was I to do?" SHE SHALL HAVE MUSIC NN felt the tears streak down her face. She turned to run to her bedroom before.
Parley saw that her emotions were out of control, but it was too late.
Parley was out of the chair and was at her heels. She felt his arms, like bands of steel about her.
Parley was behind her walking her to the large dressing mirror.
Panic made her rigid in his arms.
Parley stood her in front of the mirror and jokingly said: "See how pretty you are when you cry!" His arms held her firmly, she could not escape.
Since she could not break the bands of his grip, there was but one way to avoid her reflection in the mirror, drop her eyes. 'Through the veil of moisture Ann saw Parley's checkbook lying open on the vanity.
There it was in black and white, the stub of a check which was made out to Mark Warren, for two hundred fifty dollars.
Parley still held Ann's hands firmly. She bent her face and wiped the tears on her sleeve, then looked G 157 at Parley's reflection in the mirror. His smile was different now, not teasing, not blundering, but touching the corners of his mouth and gently. "But, Parley, I don't understand. You said the Warrens were asking — two fifty. That's what you paid!" Ann was baffled. "Well, I made Warren come through with delivery at that price."
Parley smiled.
Parley had.
Capitulated without losing his pride.
Everything was wonderful. It seemed to Ann the world had never been so beautiful. She could take lessons now. She would make up for every wasted moment since she was twelve. It was never too late to begin a life's dream. She would still learn to be an accompanist for the church. | It had been a queer day, like a patchwork quilt, with light and dark places. Ann blinked the last tears from their ducts and smiled (Continued on page 214) G #4 FRANCES CARTER YOST Frances Carter Yost, Bancroft, Idaho, daughter of Leo T. And Caroline Webb Carter, is the wife of a rancher, Glenn F. Yost, and the mother of four children. Mrs.
Yost collaborated in writing and compiling Bancroft's Book of Remembrance, published in January 1949.
Proceeds from the sale of this book are being used for Bancroft's new Latter-day Saint chapel. Her book of poetry, Brim With Joy, was published in 1950, and is receiving praiseworthy recognition. At present, Mrs.
Yost writes a column for two weekly papers, the Soda Springs Sun, and the Grace Herald, and she is correspondent for The Deseret News (Salt Lake City), and the Idaho State Journal.
Three of Mrs. Yost's stories have been published in The Relief Society Magazine: "Filleth the Hungry Soul" (May 19
September 1946); and "Prelude to Christmas" (December 1946). This is her first appearance as a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Active in Church work, Mrs. Yost is now the president of the Bancroft Consolidated Primary, which includes five wards. 46); "There Is Still Life' She Prophet Yoseph Smith TESTIMONY OF SISTER M. ISABELLA HORNE* (Found in the papers of Martha Horne Tingey, daughter of M. Isabella Horne, and submitted to the Magazine by Bertha K. Tingey) HAYING been requested by the late apostle, Abraham Owen Woodruff, some months prior to his death, to leave my personal testimony to my children concerning the life, character, labors, and mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith ... I cheerfully comply, as follows:
I first met the Prophet Joseph Smith in the fall of 1837, at my home in the town of Scarborough, Canada West.
When I first shook hands with him I was thrilled through and through and I knew that he was a Prophet of God, and that testimony has never left me, but is still strong within me, and has been a monitor to me, so that I can now bear a faithful testimony to the divinity of the mission of that great man of God.
During the three days series of meetings held in a new barn which my husband had built, the Prophet made his home with us. The use of this barn became a necessity because the Methodists, who were bitterly opposed to us, refused to let their churches to the Prophet and saints.
As an example of Brother Joseph's humility, as well as his respect for authority,
I mention the following: As soon as he reached Toronto, Canada, he inquired who the presiding officer was. On learning that it was the late President John Taylor, the Prophet said, "Send for him, as I desire to hold a meeting with the people." When
President Taylor arrived, Brother Joseph said, "Brother Taylor, I am the Prophet
Joseph. I want you to call a meeting, as I would like to talk to the saints."
While in Canada he visited all the branches of the Church, and gave the saints instructions on the organization and order of the Priesthood, respect for proper authority, corrected some of the mis-translations of the Bible, and took pleasure in answering questions pertaining to the gospel and the organization of the Church. Brother and Sister Taylor, my husband, and I enjoyed the privilege of accompanying the Prophet on these visits.
During the year following the Prophet's visit to Canada, my husband and I removed to the United States, and finally settled in Quincy, Illinois.
*Sister M. Isabella (Mary I.) Home, a prominent pioneer leader in Relief Society activities, was born in Kent, England, in 1818, the daughter of Stephen and Mary Ann
Hales. The family moved to Canada in 1832, and in 1836 Isabella married Joseph
Home. That same year she became acquainted with the missionaries Orson and Parley Pratt and soon thereafter joined the Church. The Home family later made their home in Nauvoo, Illinois, and were close friends of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
In Utah, Sister Home served for many years as general treasurer of Relief Society and was a member of the executive board of the Deseret Hospital Association, which was organizd in 1882. For thirty years she was president of the Senior Retrenchment Association. She also served as president of the Woman's Co-operative Mercantile and Manufacturing Association, established to encourage manufacturing in the mountain valleys and to give women an opportunity to use their sewing skills. She was counselor to Sister Zina D. H. Young in the Silk Association of pioneer days, and was outstanding for her leadership in the suffrage movement. Sister Home died in 1906. Many of the descendants of her fifteen children are now active and outstanding social and religious leaders.
Page 158

THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH
159
PIONEER RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERS
Many of these women were friends and associates of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and some of them officiated in Relief Society work.
Front row, seated,, left to right: Phebe C. Woodruff, wife of President Wilford
Woodruff, and an active organizer of pioneer Relief Societies; Mary I. Home,
Relief Society general board member from 1888 to 1905; Eliza R. Snow, poet and leader of women, present at the first meeting of Relief Society in 1842 and appointed secretary at that time; general president of Relief Society from 1866 to 1887; Zina
D. H. Young, general president from 1888 to 1901; Marinda N. Hyde, wife of the apostle Orson Hyde, and prominent leader of Latter-day Saint women, admitted to membership at the first meeting of Relief Society.
Back row, standing, left to right: Romania B. Pratt (Penrose), physician, educator, and member of the general board from 1888 to 1921; Bathsheba W. Smith, present at the first meeting of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, and general president from 1901 to 1910; Elizabeth Howard, prominent leader of early Relief Societies, member of the executive board of the Deseret Hospital Association, and general board member 1892 to 1893; Jane S. Richards, wife of the apostle,
Franklin D. Richards, and member of the general board 1888 to 1910; Emmeline B.
Wells, poet and editor of the Woman's Exponent, and general president from
1910 to 1921.
In compliance with a revelation from the Lord commanding him to lay our grievances before the judges, governors, and even the President of the United States, the Prophet Joseph, in company with a number of the brethren, came to Quincy, and the Prophet laid the condition of the affairs of the Church before Governor Carlin.
On his return from his visit to Governor Carlin, the Prophet sent the brethren ahead on their return t rip, telling them he would follow later. When he reached
Lima, where they intended to remain over night, he found officers of the law awaiting him. They arrested him and brought him back to Quincy. This was Friday evening.
About noon the next day the Prophet came to our house and said, "Sister Home, the Spirit always draws me to your home." "Brother Joseph," I said, "you are always welcome. But how is it you are here when I thought you were almost home?" "Haven't

160
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— MARCH 1951 you heard that I have been in court all morning?" he asked. I replied that I had not.
"Well I have," he said. "I told the officers that I would be forthcoming at any hour in the morning they might name, if they would let me go, so here I am. What am I to do? They won't let me have my trial in Nauvoo, but are going to take me to Walla Walla. I thought I should be at home by this time where my wife would look after my clothing, as it is in need of attention." "I will wash your clothing," I answered. "Indeed, Sister Home, you do not look able to do it." I insisted, and he finally consented, as I told him my Saturday's work was all done. I prepared his clothing that afternoon, so that he was ready for his journey in the morning.
Sister Cleveland, who had heard of the Prophet's arrest, came to see him, and met him at the door'just as he was leaving. As she shook hands with him, she began speaking in tongues. Brother Joseph listened until she had finished, then turned to us and said, "You need have no fears for me, as Sister Cleveland says, I shall have my trial and be acquitted." He was acquitted, and was received with great honors on his arrival at his home.
The last time I shook hands with the Prophet was at the Mansion House, on an occasion when I had called to see part of the family.
I testify that Joseph Smith was the greatest Prophet that ever lived on this earth, the Savior, only, excepted. There was a personal magnetism about him which drew all people who became acquainted with him, to him.
I feel greatly honored when I realize that I have had the privilege of personally entertaining this great man, of ministering to his temporal wants, of shaking hands with him, and listening to his voice. I heard him relate his first vision when the Father and Son appeared to him: also his receiving the Gold Plates from the Angel Moroni.
This recital was given in compliance with a special request of a few particular friends in the home of Sister Walton, whose house was ever open to the saints. While he was relating the circumstances, the Prophet's countenance lighted up, and so wonderful a power accompanied his words that everybody who heard them felt his influence and power, and none could doubt the truth of his narration. I know that he was true to his trust, and that the principles that he advanced and taught are true. k/L LKobtn s CA eer
Grace Sayre
Here upon the window sill,
Singing in the rain,
An early robin pours his heart
Out to her again.
She who looks upon the spring,
From a rocking chair,
Knows he comes to cheer her, with A jubilant refrain.
And to make her doubly glad
He will wed and nest
Where her square of windowpane
Frames a bit of the west.
Robin, with his cheerful song,
With his red-gold breast,
Here he'll sing his happy tune
Joyfully expressed.

Willard Luce
THE BLUE MOUNTAINS, SAN JUAN COUNTY, UTAH
Kjlfter LOeep VU inter
^Catherine F. Laisen
Spring will come like a thunderclap,
After winter's still, white cold;
Trees will burgeon suddenly,
And the robin's song be bold.
Spring will strike across the land
With full impact of surprise,
Breaking the breath-held iron spell —
Green astounding snow-blind eyes.
Spring will be a trumpet call
Clear and challenging, a sound
To mark the swell and surge of life
Teeming up from underground.
Page 161

The Sewing Kit Speaks
Lillian S. Feltman
I'M not a very big person. And I'm really not important at all.
Mostly I just sit in my own little spot back on the shelf, and usually no one notices me. I'm not a bit fancy. On the outside I'm a warm brown wood, and on the inside I'm green velvet. Trudy's father and mother planned me from start to finish when Trudy was a sweet little girl with yellow curls and big blue eyes and chubby dimples and smiles. Trudy was just eight years old then, and I was waiting for her on Christmas morning when she came down the wide stairs in her woolly pajamas, brushing the sleep from her eyes, to see what Santa had left for her under the Christmas tree.
Trudy gave a little inarticulate series of "ohs" and * ahs" and picked me up. She looked at herself in the little mirror that's glued on the inside of my lid. I guess I must have looked very interesting that morning with my imposing array of spools of different colored threads, manysized buttons, neat pin-cushion, a package of needles, and another of pins, blunt scissors, and a measuring tape. There was a card of snapfasteners, some scraps of d ress trimming and material, and some hooks and eyes for Trudy's family's wardrobe.

Throughout the years Trudy and I were together many hours each day. And we had such fun watching her dolls' various articles of clothing take shape and grow under Trudy's nimble fingers. Trudy loved her family very dearly, and every scrap of material her mother gave to her was used to make them beautiful. And it made me happy, too—to think that I could help her a tiny bit. I always felt so warm and cozy holding the lovely pieces of cloth close to me as I watched Trudy at her work with other bits of silk or lace or calico or woolen.

I remember when Trudy graduated from high school, and how she cut off a too-long end of her sash and tucked the piece in under my lid. I was very proud of Trudy that day, I can tell you.

And then I wakened one afternoon from my nap to hear Trudy say, "Mother, do you think it's too soon to marry him next month?"

And Mrs. March, Trudy's mother, said lightly, "Why, no, dear, not if that's when you and he want to be married."

And not long afterward I began to get glimpses of white satin, now and then, as the day of the wedding drew near.

Trudy was very happy those days, always humming gaily to herself. Once, when she picked me up to carry me out onto the porch to do some sewing, she hugged me close in her arms and said, "Oh, I love him so!"

My, how'd have thought I was "him," the way she squeezed me! I wasn't in on the wedding reception because I was back on my shelf. How I wished Trudy would forget and leave me in an inconspicuous spot; but Trudy is a very tidy girl, so of course that was wishing for too much. Finally I went to live in Joe's and Trudy's house, such a dear little dream house tucked away under the maples that grew tall and stalwart, as if to guard it from the outside world.

ONE day a button from Joe's shirt came in to keep me company. And not long after, there was one from his coat, and then another off his vest. I guessed Trudy must be awfully busy not to put them back in their proper places.

Then I learned that Trudy had met some new friends, and just knowing them took up so much of her time that there wasn't much left for other things. And one night I heard Joe say, "If you'd spend more time at home and less running around with that crowd, you wouldn't be so rushed all the time and could get around to these things that need to be done."

And Trudy snapped — really snapped—at Joe. "Don't you criticize my friends. You're always so busy and I have to have something to do!"

"I have to keep busy to get ahead," said Joe. "And if you could see straight you'd see there was plenty to do here at home—if you'd run things right."

"Oh!" gasped Trudy. "I think you're horrid!"

Trudy slammed the door then, so I didn't get to hear any more, but I wondered what had become of Trudy's good nature. It wasn't like her to shout at Joe in that fashion.

The buttons kept coming in—one or two at a time—and occasionally one was taken out, but not very often. I began to wonder how clothes could hang on when so many buttons were off. One of the shining, beautiful buttons from Trudy's wedding gown came too, and I loved having it there among all the rest. But when it stayed and stayed I fretted and worried about it. Though I loved having it, it should have been with me for only a short while. It belonged back on the white satin gown, and being off so long made it look like neglect on Trudy's part. And that didn't look good to me.

ONE night Trudy carried me into the living room after supper. I wondered where Joe was. Trudy looked a bit unhappy. She tried humming a tune as she started some embroidery work, but it didn't go so well. Trudy's heart wasn't in it. Presently the doorbell rang and some of Trudy's new friends greeted her noisily.

"All alone again?" one of the girls said in mock disbelief. "Well, nobody can tell me Joe needs to work late that many nights!"

"He'd rather work than do anything else," Trudy explained ruefully.

"Well," someone else chimed in, "we're not going to stand by and let you wear yourself out just sitting at home, waiting for him! Grab your coat and let's go! We're on our way out to the Sapphire Club. You should see it. It's really something!"