[Spring House Cleaning by Caroline Eyring Miner]

Spring House Cleaning Caroline Eyring Miner 7s wind is doing a good job of house cleaning these March days. She is whipping the old dead branches from the trees, blowing the molded leaves into little piles wherever there is some object to catch and hold them. She is drying up the little puddles of muddy water, dusting off the ivy and evergreens after the long winter. We need a spring house cleaning, too. We need to pull out the dead wood of prejudice and self-complacency. We need to gather the scattered leaves of frivolity, selfishness, vanity, insincerity, and self-pity, and burn them. We need to dry up the little puddles of gossip, faultfinding, backbiting. We need to keep verdant the desire in our hearts to grow, and keep growing, as the evergreens do. We need to brighten _ the kind helpfulness that is our better nature. Spring house cleaning is a tedious and painful process sometimes, but it is nevertheless very necessary. Warren Lee FLOWERING CHERRY, UTAH STATE CAPITOL GROUNDS Page 176

Flower Arrangements for Springtime
Doiothy J. Roberts
LIKE music, flowers speak a universal language. They tell of refinement, gentleness, and love of beauty; of festivity, of tribute in joy or sorrow. A life is given or one is taken away, and the eloquence of flowers received, is understood, interpreted in the language of the heart. From their throats come the message of solace, the voice of peace, or the song of spring.
Enhanced by harmonious containers and settings, flowers can bring distinction to the plainest surroundings. Let each woman try her hand at more original and gratifying arrangements, of the growing things at her command.
She will develop her personality and delight her family and friends.
CONTAINERS
Plain containers are best for general use.
Ornate vases are hard to harmonize with various flowers and backgrounds.
Pale, pastel colors, dull greens, blues, and ivories, whites, and browns are good. Use a shallow, oblong bowl for low arrangements, and an urn and a taller bowl or square type container for taller designs.
Wide-mouthed containers are more convenient than narrow-necked ones. But don't be content with only these conventional containers. Have a daring eye, open for anything to fill your need, as plates, platters, vegetable dishes, tureens, bowls, compotes, goblets, chocolate pots, odd bottles, sprinkling cans, or brass, copper, silver, pewter, and wood articles, weathered pieces of wood or tree stumps.
Some containers may be painted with oil or water-mixed paints.
Willard Luce
FLOWER HOLDERS
The best for all purposes are the heavy lead-base, needle-point holders in various sizes. Impale the flower stems firmly on the sharp needle points. Use for all shallow containers. Hide them well with petals, blossoms, foliage, pebbles, or rocks.
FLORAL CLAY
Clay must be kept dry until the arrangement is completed. Put a piece on the bottom of the needle holder, then press firmly to the bottom of the container. This will hold heavy arrangements from falling. Use also on top of the needles to keep small stems in place.
Page 177

178
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— MARCH 1951
W. Atlee Burpee
ARRANGEMENT OF ALLDOUBLE PETUNIAS (AMERICA)
WIRE IN VASES
A strip of chicken wire about two inches wide, crumpled up into tall vases or the necks of narrow-necked jars will hold flowers in place.
ROCKS AND PEBBLES
Dark, weathered and pitted rocks are useful and ornamental in weighting down a flower holder. Pebbles serve a like purpose.
FLORIST WIRE
Use to twine around stems and flowers or through stems to shape them. You will need a heavy and a light gauge.
ELASTIC BANDS, RAFFIA,
AND STRING
Tie small flowers, as pansies and violets, into bunches before arranging.
DISCS
Circles of plywood, painted to harmonize, and used as a background, will dramatize and add interest to some arrangements, if you do not have copper, brass, silver, or other colored plates on hand.
FIGURINES
Colorful or graceful figurines used in the proper place will enhance many arrangements. They should be used only after thought and planning, and placed inside or outside the container. Ducks would be appropriate in or beside low dishes where the water shows. Birds go with boughs or many flower types. Human figures should be used in scale, so neither the figure nor the arrangement dwarfs the other. Line or color in the figurine may be repeated in the arangement.

FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS FOR SPRINGTIME
179
FOLIAGE
Develop an open mind toward foliage to use with flowers or alone. Unrelated leaves often lend new grace to a flower.
Borrow from weeds, shrubs, ferns, grasses, or potted plants. Combine ivy, trailing to the tablecloth, with stiff flowers. Try all-green arrangements, or one of variegated greens, vegetables not excluded.
Remember, Salina said in So Big, "Cabbages are beautiful!" Many leaves can be brightened to a rich sheen with cotton dipped in oil. The delicate young green of boughs "forced" into early bloom is delightful.
FLOWERS
What a panorama of color and form bursts upon the mind at the word. For the first breath of spring, go outdoors in February or March and prune off a few boughs from any flowering shrub or tree and "force" them into bloom a month early by bringing them into the house and putting them in deep water. They will burst into delicate bloom in a week or two, more or less, and will last as long or longer than those matured in the garden. Their stems, along with all woody stems, should be pounded with a hammer, from the ends up about two to five inches; not enough to break, but just to bruise them. This allows for more absorption of water. Try this on pussy willows, Forsythia, flowering quince, and almond, bridal wreath, apple, currant, pear, jasmine, alder, and honeysuckle.
The twigs of plants which bear only leaves are beautiful, too, the horse chestnut, beech, birch, oak, mountain ash, maple, and barberry. Then soon the early spring flowers, hyacinths, pansies, daffodils,