[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: A Mother]
They were still talking about Paul's escape. "Father," he piped, "isn't it a good thing mother wears so many skirts?" oa Letter from Mlother My Dear CHILDREN: With the warmth of summer around us, we feel a new and altogether delightful atmosphere everywhere. How are your roses coming along? Did you transplant the white roses in the back to the front garden?
Just to walk through a rose garden gives me a lift for the day. You know, dears, I had a really good idea yesterday, at least I believe it is.
Most people, I find, don't always want great things—they want little things. 'They like to have someone thoughtful enough of their comfort to move over pleasantly in a public place so that their well-being is considered. A smile and a pleasant word bring instant response.
Almost anywhere. The other day when I stopped my car by a Stop sign, a young man with a sort of flashy car waited longer than was needful just so I could have a clear crossing. He smiled as though it had been his mother who was at the wheel of my car. As I passed him I couldn't resist calling, "You'll spoil me!"
That set me thinking. We should all spoil each other more.
Spoil the other person by giving him something he wants and is not expecting—some kindness and consideration that will warm his heart and make his day happier and fuller.
That young man in the car, with his pleasant courtesy, persuaded me that I had probably been wrong about the 'udeness of drivers. I just didn't consider them as people. Now I wanted to do something nice for other drivers. I wanted to pass the word along that courtesy is not dead, but is very much alive and worthwhile. At school, when I was small, we used to play the simple little game of, "Pass It On." Why shouldn't we pass on our idea of thinking up ways of spoiling people? If our neighbor feels that we have infringed on her privacy and annoyed her by playing the radio or television too loud at night, let us not resent it. Let us play our music softer.
