[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Tennyson]

eee a Literature of England Lesson 33—The Maturing Tennyson (1809-1892) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 593-654) For Tuesday, October 20, 1953
Objective: To relate Tennyson's early poetry to the growing man living in a com plex neti of conflict and change. [' seems imperative to begin a ' study of Victorian literature with Teeny sei He was the most popular poet in England for almost fifty years and he most nearly gave expression to the thought and feeling of his contemporaries. In an age when the prestige of organized religion was on the wane, Tennyson deliberately and sincerely prepared himself to become poetprophet to the English people. By thus giving the Victorians what they wanted, Tennyson was overwhelmingly lionized by his age; he received a constant stream of gifts, while curiosity seekers at his estate used any subterfuge to hear his musical voice or procure an autograph. A devout pilgrimage of nobility, high society, and the dominant minds came to his parlor, there to hear the master himself read from his writings, particularly from his favorite, "Maud." And what the Victorians most desperately wanted, with doubt so painful and belief so hard to maintain, was a representative voice proclaiming certainty and acceptably compromising the devastating con- _ flicts of the times. In his maturity that voice was Tennyson's. But before he could "arrive," he himself 486 had much growing and changing, doubting and affirming to do. And like many Englishmen, 'Tennyson spent his life attempting to resolve various conflicts which arose during his youth, with varying degrees - of success.
Events of Tennyson's Life _ The skeleton events of his life can be presented in a paragraph (see text, pp. 593-596).
Born in 1809, 'Tennyson was reared in the country in a literary, ministerial home. He wrote his first poetry at five. He failed to graduate from Cambridge, but was deeply influenced by The Apostles, a group of student intellectuals, particularly by his dearest friend Arthur Hallam, whose premature death in 1833 was the great wound in Tennyson's entire life. In 1832, Tennyson ventured to share his inmost self with the world by publishing his poems. To this aspiring, sensitive youth the result was staggering. The reviewers pounced fiercely upon his poems for their feeble thought and over-rich mood, while t
he reading public not only scorned his affected style, they began laughing at him!
Tennyson was brokenhearted, and published LESSON DEPARTMENT nothing for ten years. Not long afterward he thought he could detect that his eyes were failing. In 1837 he and the family for which he was now responsible were turned out of Somersby Rectory where he was born. At about the same time he became engaged to Emily Sellwood, but being a poor man and an unsuccessful poet, he could not think of marriage. Apparently, in desperation, he sold all his worldly goods and invested all his money, along with some funds from his family, in a Patent Decorative Carving Company, which left 'Tennyson destitute when it failed. For six months he was so ill that his family despaired of his life.
Both financially and emot