[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: Drudgery]

Page 45/7 O-—D EDITORIAL oe 
VOL. 40 JULY 1953
Vork— lot Drudgery HE regularly scheduled Relief Society program, as recommended by the general board, pro vides that a work meeting be held one day of each month throughout the year. It is unfortunate that with so many people the word work is synonymous with the word drudgery.
Words are peculiarly elastic things.
They are charged with a variety of meanings.
Often a word that may originally have had a special meaning may have that meaning modified and even changed by popular usage. In requiring that man should work to earn his daily bread God surely did not intend to impose a curse of drudgery upon him.
Work is a blessing, not only because of the material things procured through it, but because of its wholesome effect upon the mind and body of the worker. But this effect comes only when the work is really enjoyed; and when the worker feels he is accomplishing something worthwhile or that he is contributing something to human welfare. One Relief Society president has suggested that we change the name of "Work Meeting" to "Fun Meeting," as she felt the word "work" suggested something unpleasant to the sisters.
This president, perhaps, was not thinking of the vision and wisdom of our Relief Society leaders of the past when they planned Page 458 for and set aside one day out of each month as "Work Meeting." Relief Society was instituted to bring relief and solace to the members of the Church, especially the sisters, and its beginning was in the sewing of clothing for the men working on the Nauvoo Temple. The highest achievements and the most satisfying joys come through work. To make, to create, to produce something necessary or beautiful, lifts the spirit and brings a feeling of joy.
Work meeting should be a joy and a pleasure because we are doing good to ourselves and also helping others. If the work of each day is well defined and well planned, it is not drudgery.
Work becomes drudgery when we cease to plan for it, or to make it attractive or pleasant. Also, tastes and.
Evaluations differ with different people.
What is play to one is arduous work to another. Toa certain type of woman a party might be "a hard day's work."
Pleasure to one may be the thrill of doing a piece of creative work, while to another it may be the peaceful satisfaction that accompanies an act of compassionate service. The other day a Relief Society ward president made this announcement in a sacrament meeting: "The sisters of this ward have been so loyal during the past Relief Society EDITORIAL season that we are going to reward them. We are not going to hold any work meetings during the coming summer months."
Such an attitude shows a lack of understanding of the purpose and the opportunities of the day, and deprives our 459 sisters of the real joy and value of work meeting—a meeting which, if conducted as it should be, will provide an opportunity for our sisters to serve, to create, and to develop sisterhood. —V. N. S. Wotes.
10 THE FIELD Program for the llovember Fast Sunday &vening Mleeting HE special program for November will be mailed to Relief Society stake presidents on August ist. We urge stake presidents to distribute these programs to the wards immediately upon receipt of them. The following songs have been selected for use in the program. "One World," by Geoffrey O'Hara, arranged by Harry R. Wilson, No. 106, SSA, 20C per copy. "T Will Thank Thee, O Lord," by Frank L. Moir, SSA, No. 8942, 15¢ per copy. If these songs are not available at your local music store, they may be ordered from one of the following: Daynes Music Company, 45-47
South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Beesley Music Company, 70
South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Glen Brothers Music Company, 74