[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Special for I]
Special for Redheads | Part I ' Hazel K. Todd HROUGH her blue, ruffled T kitchen curtains, Marian could see the medieval army of nine-year-olds, their grotesque wooden swords flourishing in the air as they lined up for combat. And although she could have walked out the door and saluted the proud leader in a few short steps, yet she knew, with discouraging assurance, she would still be a million miles from reaching him. "Ready, charge!" shouted Rusty, the knight in command, with his bucket head pointing into the air, and a lock of his red hair waving in the summer breeze through a hole in the helmet. Her eyes followed while the army swooped down with vigorous onslaught onto the unsuspecting clothesline poles. She watched the scramble of arms and legs and bucket heads segregate into separate boys. "Good work, Sir Knight," said Rusty, the head gallant, standing in their center, his board shield held in a stately manner before him. "And now we will get the knights on the drawbridge.
Mount your steeds, men!" She saw them straddle their willow horses leaning against the garage and march away to the new battle, her heart following after the competent leader.
Being a stepmother could be so satisfying if only Rusty would accept her as the others had done. If only she could think of the way to break down the hard wall he had built up against her. Her gaze wandered down along the row of trees that led to the meadow and the swamp she. Had heard Robbie mention. She thought of the dozens of ways she had tried to reach Rusty. 'There was the time when she had bought him the new belt with the shining silver buckle. He had given it to his friend Beany.
There was the time she had gone to his room at night. She had sat on the bedclothes and tried to talk to him, but he had covered up his head and stiffened out like something made of steel.
Then there was the time "Moth-er." The word clung in her ears as it had done from the first time she had heard it. She turned to the small figure beside her. It was Robbie, a little boy, short for his four years. He was standing before her with his big eyes and his cat Blinky. "Moth-er, may I have a drink?" "Of course, darling!" she said, reaching for the glass. And then she sat on the chair and pulled him onto her lap, forgetting for the moment the one she could not hold. He kissed her lightly on the cheek, stroked the cat's silky hair, and then he slid from her knees and went chasing after some new interest. And Marian, too, went chasing in her mind after all the things in the recent past that had made her life so different. From Robbie, with his fairy kisses and his "Moth-er," to Rusty, with his stubborn red Page 443 444 hair, his scowl and himself that he kept always out of her reach; to Patty and her sweet girlishness, always trying so hard to help; and to Bob her husband.
With thoughts of Bob there came flooding over her a warmth that sang in her like spring sunshine. EETING Bob had been such a sweet surprise.
Years before she had folded the scraps of a broken romance away in a corner of her memory and told herself that that part of her was dead. But one day Bob had walked into the shop where she sold toys, having been sent in by a mutual friend.
From the moment she had looked into his suntanned face she had suspicioned that something could go awry.
With her well-planned spinsterhood. "T want a scooter," he said, "for a red-headed boy. Jack Rhodes told me you would help me select one." She had found herself thinking of the man's handsome red _ hair, instead of the scooter. "Something extra strong," she remembered his saying, "for a tough red-headed boy with too much energy." And then she had come to herself. "Oh," she had said, "'something special for redheads!" And they.
Both laughed together, and it had been such fun.
Marian didn't recall when Bob had first told her about his chil- ~ dren, whose mother was dead. But one by one she had met them through incidents he had mentioned. 'There was Patty, who was eleven now, a shy girl who longed for the companionship of a mother; Rusty nine, who had red hair and  so much energy that he needed a special scooter; and Robbie, four, who couldn't remember his mother.
Robbie had a cat Blinky that he loved very much. And there was a housekeeper, Mrs. Sharp, who kept the house and the children very clean, in a very business-like way.
Marian had made a special place in her heart for each of the children by the time Bob asked her to marry him. 'They had been walking after the rain along a street that was lined with lilac bushes. Suddenly, he had stopped at a spot where the late sun shone through the wet leaves onto his sunbrown face.
Marian had looked at his wet hair that burned in the sunlight so that it set her heart on fire, at his smile that twisted her heart, and at his blue eyes that were full of his love. She had taken the folded scraps from the past and cast them away, and given him her heart as clean of the past sorrows as the washed leaves of the lilac bushes. She had had no_ stepmother qualms at meeting Bob's children. She had even waited with excitement the day he was to take her to his home to meet his family.
When the car had stopped before the white house with its wide lawn and the neat picket fence, and the trees that led to the meadow beyond, she had felt that it was everything she had ever wanted in a home. Bob had been excited, too, like a boy who wanted to show something that was his and of which he was very proud. But when the car stopped, he had suddenly become very sober. He had laid his hand on her arm. "Marian, if Rusty SPECIAL FOR REDHEADS acts, stubborn —and —well, don't let him change your mind." MARIAN had laughed. She had seen throngs of redheaded boys. Who loved scooters. "Of course,' she had assured him, "I will not be discouraged. Don't you know I have special ways for redheads?" And even after their first meeting she had not been discouraged. In her thoughts she relived her first visit. She stood again before the door that Bob was opening for her. Bob opened the door and she entered with joyous expectation.
Patty was sitting at the piano, and she stood up and made a sedate little curtsy. Bob gave the girl a quick wink so that Marian knew they had planned it together. And in her heart she clasped the child's hand, knowing that with her there was nothing to fear. And then in the picture before her she saw Rusty sitting sullenly in the corner, with his red hair and a black frown. But before she had time to think further Robbie came from his seat in the big chair, with his big eyes and his cat. He walked falteringly, and he held the cat tightly in his arms. "Do you like cats?" he asked earnestly when he was several steps from her. "Mrs.
Sharp doesn't like Blinky," - Patty hastened to explain. "She says there are cat hairs all over everything."
Marian felt Bob's eyes upon her, while before her she looked into the other pair of eyes, the large dark eyes of a child asking for assurance. 445 "Why, I love cats," she said happily, going to Robbie and stroking the cat's soft back. "When I was a little girl I had a cat almost like Blinky." Robbie's big eyes looked joyously up into hers. "Could he sing?" he asked with great awe. "Oh, wonderfully!"
Marian said, and then before she knew it they were sitting in the rocker together with Blinky purring softly. Bob cleared his throat. "Aren't you going to say hello?" he asked the boy in the corner. But Rusty had no such thought. Instead, he pursed his lips and scraped his foot along the carpet.
Marian looked at Bob and saw the flush rise in his cheeks. He looked at her imploringly, as if he were afraid she might run away.
