[Vol40 | July 1953 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Article | Title: Thousands Make $50 and More With This Famous Chilton Plan! Think of it!... There are $$$ and $$$ of CASH PROFIT waiting for you in these wonderful boxes of beautiful Chilton Greeting Cards. It's a GUARANTEED profit, too you must make money just | Author: showing these cards to friends and neighbors, or you may return the cards. Each year thousands of men and women are making new friends and asssuring themselves of extra money through the famous Chilton ''friendship plan.'' The moment you see these beautiful, colorful cards you'll understand why people are so eager to buy them. There are cards for every occasion Christmas cards, birthday cards, anniversary, get-well, friendship, congratulation cards. Not just ordinary cards but cards so handsome they'll be remembered and treasured through the years! Your own good sense will tell you there must be literally hundreds of folks right in your neighborhood who'll thank you for introducing them to these cards. That's why we want to send you these three introductory boxes now to prove what a warm, friendly, human experience it is to show Chilton cards! You'll earn $10, $20, $50 and more, quickly and easily. You need no experience; as a new member of the "Chilton Family" you get our money-making guides which explain everything. FREE TRIAL OFFER —YOUR PROFITS GUARANTEED To get you started, we make this amazing offer of all 3 boxes of famous Chilton Greeting Cards for just $1.00 — an offer that may never be made again! Send no money, pay nothing when your sample boxes arrive. Just examine these cards and show them to your friends and neighbors. Unless they bring you immediate orders for many more boxes as an active Chilton Dealer, just return the cards and owe nothing. Or, if you prefer, keep them for your own use at the wholesale price. You don't risk a penny! But this offer is limited so mail the coupon today! C o]
Thousands Make $50 and More With This Famous Chilton Plan! Think of it!... There are $$$ and $$$ of CASH PROFIT waiting for you in these wonderful boxes of beautiful Chilton Greeting Cards. It's a GUARANTEED profit, too you must make money just by showing these cards to friends and neighbors, or you may return the cards. Each year thousands of men and women are making new friends and asssuring themselves of extra money through the famous Chilton ''friendship plan.'' The moment you see these beautiful, colorful cards you'll understand why people are so eager to buy them. There are cards for every occasion Christmas cards, birthday cards, anniversary, get-well, friendship, congratulation cards. Not just ordinary cards but cards so handsome they'll be remembered and treasured through the years! Your own good sense will tell you there must be literally hundreds of folks right in your neighborhood who'll thank you for introducing them to these cards. That's why we want to send you these three introductory boxes now to prove what a warm, friendly, human experience it is to show Chilton cards! You'll earn $10, $20, $50 and more, quickly and easily. You need no experience; as a new member of the "Chilton Family" you get our money-making guides which explain everything. FREE TRIAL OFFER —YOUR PROFITS GUARANTEED To get you started, we make this amazing offer of all 3 boxes of famous Chilton Greeting Cards for just $1.00 — an offer that may never be made again! Send no money, pay nothing when your sample boxes arrive. Just examine these cards and show them to your friends and neighbors. Unless they bring you immediate orders for many more boxes as an active Chilton Dealer, just return the cards and owe nothing. Or, if you prefer, keep them for your own use at the wholesale price. You don't risk a penny! But this offer is limited so mail the coupon today! C o 120