School Lunches Ethel Melville, University of Utah Foods Children Should Have and Lunch Basket Suggestions. If children are to be strong and healthy and do good work in school, they must be properly fed. Too many of them are eating unwholesome food at noon and thereby depriving their bodies of the nourishment necessary for energy and growth. Luncheon for school children, from the standpoint of health, is no more important than any other meal of the day, but it is more difficult to keep up to the standard of wholesomeness and cleanliness. Growing children have special needs in the way of food. Even when they always eat at home, it is no easy matter to see that they are properly fed, and when they eat the mid-day meal at school, the difficulty is far greater. This is not because wholesomeness and cleanliness are more important in this meal than in any other, but because they are harder to secure. In order that children may be strong and well, their food must first provide the materials for building and repairing the body; it must furnish energy or fuel for the work of the muscles; and it must serve to regulate the intricate chemical changes on which health and growth depend. Vegetables and fruits are particularly valuable as sources of the necessary mineral matters and vitamines, the lack of which may lead to under-development and to such diseases as rickets and scurvy. Many vegetables and fruits also tend to prevent constipation. Cereals may be depended upon for a large part of the fuel that every active child needs. Sugar also has a useful, place in the child's diet as a fuel and as a flavoring. For a child eight to ten years old an allowance of two ounces (four level tablespoon fulls) of sugar a day to be used in cooking or eaten in other ways is not too much. The point to remember about sugar and sweets in a child's diet is that they should be served chiefly at the end of the meal. If eaten between meals or at the beginning of a meal they take away the appetite for more important foods. Milk is regarded as a necessity in the diet of every normal child, because it supplies, in an easily digestible form, the necessary tissue-building material, and is a good combination of vitamines, lime, and protein. A quart of milk a day, served partly as a beverage and partly in other ways, is not too much for a child. Wherever possible the child should be permitted to carry 
 a small bottle of milk to school to drink at recess. He will like this, especially if he can drink it with a straw. This will not take away his appetite for regular meals and it will tide him over until dinner time. Eggs are a good supplement to milk, in that they supply iron, in which milk is lacking, In the light of present knowledge of the requirements of the human body in childhood, one of the worst diets that could be devised would be made up chiefly of bread and sweets, There is likely to be no danger, however, if the child has each day at least a pint and a half of milk?a quart is better?a potato, an orange, some green vegetable, and an ounce of butter. If the children can come home at noon, conditions may be much more favorable for a wholesome lunch. There is no reason why the ordinary family dinner cannot be so prepared that it is entirely suitable for school children. The usual first course of meat and vegetables, if simply cooked and not highly seasoned, contains nothing, except the meat, that cannot be given to children, and for them, milk or eggs can be easily substituted for meat. Suitable desserts are fruit, fresh or cooked, with cake, custards and custard puddings, gelatine dishes, cereal puddings, simple ice cream, water ices, junket and blanc-mange. If the time for the noon meal is limited, it should be served promptly and in such a way that there are no delays. If this is done, an otherwise hurried meal may be changed into one at which there is plenty of time for eating and for attention to good table manners. The meat, for instance, may be sliced before it is brought to the table, and the desserts may be served in cups or individual portions. The basket lunch must usually be prepared at a time when the housekeeper is very busy. In places where there are shops near the school, therefore, children are sometimes given money with which to buy food at noon. They like this, of course, for it is a pleasure to make their own selections and they are glad to be relieved of carrying baskets. If they could choose wisely, there would be no objection to this plan. However, it is found that the money is often spent for dirty or otherwise unwholesome foods. "Hot dogs," cakes, and candy; or, at best, only starchy foods are likely to make up the bill-of-fare, and thus the good effects of careful feeding at home are likely to be overcome. It is much better in this case that the children should bring their lunches from home. The basket lunch is harder to plan and also to prepare than the lunch at home. It is not easy to keep food clean and attractive when it must be packed and carried in a lunch box. There are many foods that cannot be included in it, either because they are not good cold or because they cannot be conveniently packed 
 Hard-cooked egg yolks, which, unlike hard-cooked whites, are not '. Considered difficult to digest, make good filling for sandwiches. Sandwiches made from whole-wheat bread, lettuce, and egg yolks, seasoned with lemon juice and salt are palatable and rich in iron: and vitamines. At all times the children's lunches should include as much fresh fruit as possible. During the spring and summer apricots, cherries, strawberries, peaches, pears, and plums are as a rule easily obtained. When these are not on the market, oranges, figs, dates, apples, and dried fruits can usually be purchased. Slices of canned pineapple may also be wrapped in paraffin paper with the lunch. The following bills of fare for basket lunches may help in deciding what is satisfactory. Many others equally good will suggest themselves:; 1. Crisp roll, hollowed out and filled with chopped meat or fish, moistened and seasoned, or mixed with salad dressing; apricots, or a mixture of sliced fruits; cake. 2. Lettuce or celery sandwiches; cup custard; berries. 3. Cottage-cheese sandwiches, or a pot of cream cheese with bread and butter sandwiches; peanut sandwiches; fruit; cake. 4. Hard-cooked eggs; baking powder biscuits; celery or radishes; brown sugar or maple sugar sandwiches. 5. Bottle of milk; thin corn bread and butter; dates; apple. 6. Thermos bottle of hot soup; raisin or nut bread with butter; cheese; orange; jelly roll.: 7. Baked bean and lettuce sandwiches; apple sauce; sweet chocolate. 8.. Sandwiches with sliced tender meat for filling;- baked apple; cookies. 9, Slices of meat loaf or bean loaf; sandwiches; stewed fruit; small frosted cake. THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY CATALOGUE ? A copy of the catalogue of the Brigham Young University for the year 1924-1925 has reached our office. It indicates expansion in the courses of the institution and an increase in the quality and number of the faculty. Since the catalogue came from the press announcement has been made of an appropriation by the Church of $125,000 for the erection of a library building. This building will furnish the needed room for the; expansion of the library, and free other space necessary for class room expansion; so that there is indication of growth in the institution, from a number of very important angles. Etiquette Etiquette is a subject that has always been of interest to women. Recently Vogue has published a series of articles on Etiquette, we are including article twenty-three as it is a summing up of the series. When the writing of these essays was first considered, it seemed almost impossible that anything could be found to say on the subject of etiquette which had not already been said, rightly or wrongly. Some books on the subject were appearing, or about to appear. Some had been for a time on the market. Some were vague; some too particular; and these must have made life extremely complicated for simple people, by picturing the most natural happenings and suggesting the most appalling mistakes in connection with them. Certain advertisements showed men and women engaged in the usual actions of every-day life and attached the most sinister consequences to almost all of them, till the timid might have hesitated to appear in public. Now, all these terrifying examples are unnecessary. The essential of good public behavior is not to call too much attention to anything one does, but otherwise to conduct one's self as ordinary polite manners dictate. Here, then, is one of the uses of the newer