LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth week in. November) PROBLEMS OF BEHAVIOR Any group of individuals living together measure each other's conduct by the accepted standard of the group. If an individual violates the standard, he suffers some sort of punishment. If the breach is a minor one, the penalty imposed on him may be merely a vaguely expressed disapproval or it may be a definite social ostracism. If his offense is a grave one, violating standards that have been crystallized and written on the statutes, his penalty is likely to be the disagreeable one of court action, fines or imprisonment, and the attending unpleasant publicity. It is not the purpose of this discussion to study the various standards of conduct, nor the statutes and methods by which the courts and penal institutions operate to punish offenders. The subject for consideration is that of conduct itself?of the elements that control behavior and the factors that lead to anti-social GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER ? 489 feel that his own desires conflict too much with social customs, he will develop an unhealthy attitude towards society and its demands. If he is shielded and protected too long and too carefully by his parents, he may be incapable of meeting his own moral issues if he suddenly confronts a crisis. He may, because of _too much attention and pampering, develop an emotion instability that will influence his behavior unfavorably. He may, if too severely rebuffed when he makes innocent errors, become afraid of consequences if he speaks or acts, and so he may become a quiet, withdrawn type of person who later will have difficulty adjusting in any group. Conduct, too, is influenced by health, and by the physical and emotional make-up of the individual. Tt is as difficult to analyze the characteristics of Persons who seem not to be able to rise above their failures as it is to define the traits that make for success, While the understanding of conduct is stil] ?mperfect, it is significant that sociologists and psychologists and welfare foundations, etc., are becoming increasingly more interested in the study of individual and social causes of human successes and failures. QUESTIONS AND PropLems 1, What are some of the things a normal home would teach a child under six? 2. How should a child first be taught that he should not take things that belong to others? 3. Name the ways that a child learns that lying is not - socially approved. 4. What dangers are there in being too severe with a child at his first social errors? 5. What dangers in being too lenient?