Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Star Valley Stake. The Etna Relief Society of Star Valley stake has twentythree members enrolled. The people in the community are sO scattered that only eight members are able to walk to Relief Society meetings. The majority have to drive from three to seven miles. Unless the roads are very bad during storm periods, or during extreme rush seasons on the farms, there are seldom less than fifteen women in regular attendance. During the past three years, eighty-three quilts have been made by this branch. Quilt-making is quite necessary, since the winters are cold and long, and by cooperation, everybody is bnefited. When necessary, the branch assists with family sewing, darning stockings, mending, making layettes, etc. Help is given to all who are in need, and the members frequently take luncheon and spend the day visiting and cheering members who are unable to attend meetings. When a member of the organization moves from the ward she is remembered with a little farewell party. In the past two years this branch has been entertained by its nearest neighbor ward, the Freedom ward, and has entertained the Freedom ward in return. At each of these parties a lovely meeting with a good program, delicious luncheon, and a good time have been enjoyed by all. The attendance at these parties has come close to one hundred. ? The accompanying picture was taken last August when 
 different towns in southern Idaho, for the examination of children, to be. Conducted by the state and the welfare deparment of Boise this year. Summit Stake. Great effort is being made in Summit stake to do proper follow-up work with the children who have been examined in the clinics. It is felt that examinations are very important, but the follow-up work is equally important. Nebo Stake. The Nebo stake Relief Society board recently entertained all the officers of the stake in honor of the Nebo stake presidency. A hot chicken supper was served at 6:30 p. M. To one hundred fifty invited guests, when the honored guests were toasted by members of the various stake boards. A splendid program was rendered during the repast. Following supper, the floor was cleared for dancing, and members of the Spanish Fork Third ward entertained with a Colonial quadrille in costume, after which a George Washington game was played, and the remainder of the evening spent in dancing. Cottonwood Stake. On the. Last Tuesday of May, the Mill Creek ward Relief Society of the Cottonwood stake held a farewell party in honor of first counselor, Mary B. Cornwall, who has moved from the stake. An excellent program was given by members of the - Society and the guest was presented with a quilt, and an autograph album containing sentiments from all the eighty-odd members. Over seventy women were then seated at one long, flowerdecked table, and ice cream, cake and punch were served. Mrs. Cornwall has lived in the Mill Creek ward for thirtyone years, and has been one of the presidency of the Relief Society for fifteen years. Alpine Stake. Due to the resignation of Mrs. Sina N. Chipman from the Alpine stake Relief Society presidency, of which she has beeri a member for the last thirteen years, and for ten previous years a member of the stake board, about two hundred and eighty Relief Society members of the stake met in a social in her honor Tuesday, April 15, 1924, at 2 p.m. In the Alpine stake tabernacle. A splendid program was rendered. Tributes and toasts in honor of her efficient, faithful labors were given. Expressions of regret on Mrs. Chipman's release and words of love and good feeling toward her were heard on all sides. A beautiful silver NOTES FROM THE FIELD.  475 basket filled with carnations and evergreens was presented by the stake as a token of love and appreciation. At the close of the program, dainty refreshments were served. Liberty Stake. The homebound visitors of Liberty stake Relief Societies, under the direction of the stake board, visit all the "'shut-ins" regularly each month. It is their purpose to bring joy and comfort to those whom they visit. These workers also hold a meeting, with a program of music and readings, at the County Infirmary and at the Sarah Daft Home, once a month. Parowan Stake. In looking over the minutes of the Cedar West ward Relief Society meeting, 'we find the meeting most excellently conducted. Panguitch Siake. From letters and reports we learn of a very interesting joint meeting held recently in Panguitch, with members of the Relief Society, Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association in attendance. The Relief Society stake board meetings in this stake are very constructive and helpful. Pocatello Stake. On the fifth Tuesdays of two months during the year, the Pocatello stake has held teachers' conventions. Talks and demonstrations on teachers' work were given and each ward furnished with teachers' visiting cards. The teachers have pledged themselves to help enforce the laws. Great good has resulted from these special meetings. The organizations of this stake are following up the child welfare work, and are having the children that need medical attention attended to. REORGANIZATIONS South Sevier Stake. On March 30, the South Sevier stake was reorganized. Mrs. Matilda B. Ross, who has presided over the Relief Society of this stake since its organization, was honorably released, and Mrs. Nina Hansen was chosen president, with Mrs. Ada N. Anderson and Mrs. Annetta Christensen counselors, ad Mrs. Marie P. Larsen, secretary-treasurer. Snowflake Stake. The Snowflake stake Relief Society was reorganized April 27, 1924. Mrs, Nellie M. Smith, whose health has been failing, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 477 will be known as the Grant stake. Mrs. Harrington, who has beer. In ill health for a year, and who resigned some time ago, was honorably released with sincere regrets. The new officers of the Graniie stake Relief Society 'are: Mrs. Emmaretta G. Brown, president; Mrs. Elizabeth Allen and Mrs. Anna C. Kimball counselors; Mrs. Ellen F. Shepherd retained as secretary-treasurer. The officers appointed for the new Grant stake are as follows: Mrs. May B. Silver, president; Mrs. Blanche W. Daynes and Mrs. Lenore Fisher, counselors; Mrs. Marie H. Tanner, secretary-treasurer.