Cheerfulness Coral J. Black All Nature's efforts tend to Cheerfulness; To smooth the rough, to glorify the plain, To hide defects, and to the beauteous give More beauty. To this end her master skill Places before our eyes delightful scenes Of peace and joy, which banish sickly gloom. The open fire with bright flames leaping high; The pictured scenes that in the red coals glow; The braided wheels upon the sanded floor; The saucy wild rose peeping o'er the sill; The jean hound, slumbering on his outstretched paws Old Tabby on the softest cushion curled; The yeliow bowls, of milk and wiheaien bread; The rosy lips; the curly, tousled head; The lowing cows; the loudly clamoring geese; The covert glance of maid; the bashful swain; The fragrant breath of spring; the glis'ning rain The hovering sky of gray; the hills close wrapt In misty curtains of the great god Storm; The radiant Heavens, bright with countless gems; The silver crescent gilding dusky peaks; The seam-scarred clift, o'er laid with velvet moss; The broken wall, by tender vine caressed; The sable pine; the: foaming mountain stream; The waves uncurling on the sandy beach; The cloak of Friendship, flashing many a pearl; Yea more of love than mortal lips can tell, Invites the sad and melancholy heart To nobler aims, to brighter views of life, To unalloyed, unhindered Cheerfulness. Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Thedlopy and Testimony THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (CONTINUED) The First Parable?The Friend at Midnight. Luke 11:5-8. "And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves; for a friend of mine in his journey is come 'to me, and I have nothing to set before him? And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will-rise and give him as many as he needeth." The Setting: A place of retirement; an hour of prayer; a request on the part of the disciples to be taught to pray. The Savior teaches them ~ the Lord's prayer. The major purpose of this parable is not teach- | ing men how to pray, but to teach them to persist in prayer. The parable is supplemented with the divine declaration: "Ask and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall find; knock. And it shall be opened unto you." And this admonition is supplemented by the promise, "For every one that asketh receiveth; ? and he that seeketh findth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened." This promise is followed 'by a vividly illustrative statement of the certainty of the Spirit of the Lord being sent to those who fervently pray for it. The parable shows the importance of praying for others; the friend at midnight persisted in his petition not for himself but for a friend, and he prevailed in the name of friendship. He could go without bread himself, but he could not let his midnight friend go to bed hungry. He would accept no excuses; he pushed his unselfishness to a point where it overcame the selfishness of his neighbor. The manner in which the Savior commended the persistency of the man's request for the three loaves of bread for a hungry guest, points to the consistency of the saying: "As the Lord loveth a cheerful giver; so He loveth an earnest untiring asker." In this parable there is no comparison, for there is no room for a comparison between the Lord and the reluctant