CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	GERMANY claims to have made enameled
ware in the 13th century; be that as it
may, it has attained considerable reputation
in Ceramics. It is difficult to determine


[Column 1]
which is the superior work, Sevres or Dres-
den. In flowers, birds, insects, animals
and figures the Dresden is superior. In
colors, especially rose and blue, the Sevres
excels. The price of Sevres is much
greater than Dresden, however.
	France stands among the first in the
manufacture of porcelain. In 1698 soft
porcelains were made in France, and from
that time on many factories were establish-
ed until 1756 when the famous Sevres
works were established and owned by
Louis V., and he issued a decree forbidding
any person making painted or gilded porce-
lain. Thus for a long time only royalty
could buy Sevres. The most eminent
artists were employed and their marks were
placed upon the ware they decorated. The
pictures of the great Masters, Raphael,
Vandyke and Titian were copied by them.
	The most celebrated service ever made
there was executed in 1778 for the Empress
of Russia, Catharine II., consisting of 740
pieces and costing $200,000.
	The characteristic color of Sevres is deep
dark blue. The cost of the ware depends
upon the work as well as the breakage,
which often required the molding and bak-
ing of several pieces before a perfect one
was finished.
	We come now to cultivated England our
friend and our foe. The ancient pot-
ters of England were numerous, the art
having been used by the various tribes who
possessed and governed the British Isles at
different periods—Celtic, Roman, British.
Saxon and Norman potters abound in
tombs and barrows. The Celtic are chiefly
funeral urns, domestic vessels, cups, bowls
and lamps. It has been supposed they
were made by women. Norman potters
show but small advance and for a long
time after the Norman conquest there was
little improvement. Tiles were made and
many churches were paved with them in
the 13th and 14th century; many of them
are still preserved.
	Drinking cups of lead glazed ware with
two or four handles were made and they
were often large enough to satisfy the de-
sires of three or four persons seated around,
then each one of them could lift it by his
own handle and drink from his side of the
rim. In the 17th century the English pot-
ters began to produce a ware resembling
Delft to take the place of pewter, and the
arms, mottoes and names of the owners were
painted upon them in blue. There is one
in the Kensington Museum marked Anne
Chapman 1660, one with the motto “Be
merry and wise.”—1660.—The only
color used was blue, and one master work-
man who was given to fiddling and rhym-
ing when his men would ask for instruc-
tions would sing,
		“Tip it with blue
		And then it will do.” 
	Pottery was also used as mortuary tablets
in some of the old English church-yards in
the early part of the 18th century.
	Today it is said that the English potters 
not only rival all the continental factories
in every department, but surpass them.
Certainly some of their wares are very
beautiful. When the old ladies of
England were ridiculed for their devotion
to old china, their critics little knew of the
latent force resting in a cabinet containing
a few old teapots and cups and saucers.
These old pieces of china stimulated the
desire to reproduce them, and thus an in-
dustry grew up which gave employment to

[Column 2]
hundreds of workmen. But for the collec
tors of England, we and they, might have
gone on a century longer eating from cheap
Delft or pewter.
	In the first half of the 18th century
Josiah Wedgewood the first student of art
among English potters introduced many
improvements, Many factories were al-
ready established with fine productions,
but always expensive; but the Wedgewood
remained moderately so. Chelsea, Derby,
Worcester made at this time occasional
wares, mostly the best continental pottery,
but these were exceptional. The public
taste was not up to the highest order in
the early part of this century.
	When public museums began to show
the people of England what Ceramic art
had done in ancient and modern times, and
when the old collections in private hands,
for which the women of England had been
ridiculed, were exhibited a new era began
in English Ceramic art. Until today it
claims in this, as in everything else, to sur-
pass the world; which of course is a mat-
ter of question.
	This piece of Wedgewood I have here is a
fac simile of the famous Portland vase as near
as pottery and glass can be made
	The Portland vase is a work of the 2nd, or
3rd century. It is a beautiful cinerary urn of
transparent dark blue glass formed of two
strata and cut in cameo style. It was
found the middle of the 16th century in a
marble sarcophagus near Rome. It was
deposited in the Barberini palace Rome,
hence it is often called the Barberini vase.
It was afterwards purchased by the Duchess
of Portland for $6000. It admits of no
classification as it stands alone of its
kind. The Duchess loaned it to the British
museum where a drunken medical student
smashed it with a stone. The pieces were
so skillfully put together that much of its
beauty still remains. It still remains in
the British museum. The first copies made
by Wedgewood sold for $130 apiece.
	Holland has become noted from the
ware made in Delft which just now seems
to be in such demand that the factories can-
not fill their orders which show what a fad
can accomplish. It also makes a porcelain
which closely resembles the French ware,
but at much less price. A story is told
that a Delft manufacturer had four daughters
about to marry four Ceramic painters of
pottery on the same day. His workmen
made four violins of pottery and at the
marriage feast the four grooms played on
the four violins, while others played upon
various other instruments that were made
of the same material. The violins were
preserved in the family.
	America abounds in Delft ware. Our
Dutch ancestors on Long Island ornamented 
their chimneys with delft tiles on which
scriptural subjects were painted. English
potters produce the ware now.
	Sweden did not manufacture faience
until the 18th century, and has never
attained any eminence.
	Denmark has some potteries at Kiel
which are celebrated for their delicate
molding and painting of wares, but her
most celebrated are the Copenhagen ware.
	Russia borrowed the art of making ware
from Holland, Peter the Great having
brought potters from Delft. Today they
make some beautiful wares, and their ex-
hibit at the World’s Fair was excellent.
	Austria is chiefly noted for its Vienna
ware.

[Column 3]
	Switzerland seems to have devoted her
talents to enameled ware, to making stoves.
	From mounds in North and South
America there has been taken many speci-
mens of soft pottery, but no date. Every-
thing prior to the discovery of the western
continent is buried in obscurity. The
specimens found, however, show close
resemblance to European fabric. After
the settlement of America by Europeans
coarse pottery was made here, but our
ancestors used pewter and wooden dishes.
	Pottery was not common in America until
the middle of the 18th century, and few of
revolutionary times had ever seen porce-
lain. Tea was not used in Europe until
the middle of the 17th century, and teapots
and teacups and saucers were not made in
Europe until the latter part of the 17th
century. So consequently when the people
of Mass. gave their great tea-party in Boston
harbor, porcelain was conspicuous by its
absence.
	Before the end of the 18th century many
potteries were established. In 1770 China
works were established in Philiadelpia a few
specimens of which are preserved. In 1847
a factory was established in Bennington,
Vt. In 1848 another factory was establish-
ed, but the glazing cracked and the body
blistered. After many failures it was found
they had a man in their employ who was
paid by English parties to make failures.
He was discharged and the porcelain no
longer cracked. From that time to this
potteries have increased until now there are
nearly one thousand potteries in the United
States turning out all kinds of ware, from
terra cotta to porcelain. I will speak brief-
ly on a few and show what beautiful ware
America attained to under the greatest
difficulty. 
						S. L. M. 
                   (Continued.)


