FERENCE.

	GENERAL meeting at the Assembly Hall
Oct. 3, 1896, at 7.30 p. m., Sister Zina D.
H. Young presiding. On the stand were
Sisters Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, E. B. Wells, Dr. R. B. Pratt, Mary
Pitchforth, Ann C. Woodbury, Temperance
Hinckley and Annie T. Hyde. Meeting
opened with singing “O, my Father,”

[Column 2]
prayer by Sister Ann C. Woodbury, sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.” The first speaker was Sister
Mary Pitchforth, President of the Relief
Society of Juab Stake; she expressed her-
self as feeling we had much to be thank
ful for as a society, and felt that in their
Stake they had been greatly blessed tem-
porally and spiritually; a few years ago they
had one small meeting house but the land
on which it was built was very valuable
and they had sold it for $3000 and after-
wards built two new respectable houses,
one for each ward in Nephi with every con-
venience for meeting and storing things
which they had on hand, and the rooms
were provided with suitable furniture,
chairs, rockers etc., they also have a tene-
ment house of two nice adobe rooms; these
things are done by faith and works com-
bined. The Relief Society in all places
should have something of its own; spoke
of the good time the sisters had in 1847,
when Sister Eliza R. Snow would meet
with them from house to house in the Old
Fort.
	Sister Annie J. Wixom, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, repre-
sented the work there in place of the presi-
dent who was not well enough to attend.
She stated that when the Stake Tabernacle
in Brigham City was burned, each ward
society agreed to give ten dollars and save
their Sunday eggs as a donation; however
the poor with them had always been the
first consideration, the sisters in that county
were interested in the silk industry, they
are anxious to make the business more re-
munerative than it is. “Like others in our
place we are preparing for the great privi-
lege of voting. I have never heard instruc-
tion given to men about preparing to vote.”
Sister Wixom made other excellent re-
marks on woman’s work and duties.
	Sister Lydia Rich, President of the R.
S. of Morgan Stake testified to the union in
their Stake; they visited all around twice a 
year, she felt thankful that the Relief Soci-
ety had been such a blessing to her and to
all, thought all were improving and doing
a good work looking after the poor and the
aged and gathering up wheat; she often
wondered why the aged seemed so near to
her, felt blest in all her labors, asked the
Lord to care for us all.
	Sister L. M. Hart, Counselor R. S. of
Bear Lake Stake was proud to be associated
with the noble work of the Relief Society,
they had twenty-three branches to visit and
go by teams, the sisters attend meetings
regularly; thought we should all inform
ourselves upon the principles of the Gospel
and understand them, that they might give
a reason for the hope and faith within us.
	Sister Minerva Mc’Carroll from R. S.
San Juan Stake, Colorado, spoke briefly of
the work of the Society there, they had six
branches all in good working order and
united perfectly.
	Sister Priscilla Worthington of Cassia
Stake, represented the R. S. in the absence
of Sister Louisa Haight, the President, they
had six hundred miles to travel by team to
visit the branches. Sister Worthington
made an excellent financial report, very
gratifying, and also spoke well of the spir-
itual labors of the sisters.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde Counselor in the
R. S. Salt Lake Stake, represented the
work in the absence of President Horne,
who was very sick at the time, she spoke 
feelingly of the great work Sister Horne


[Column 1]
had accomplished in the Society, manifest-
ed the utmost interest in the industries es-
tablished in our midst, was pleased to hear
Sister Kimball speak of a building, intended
to do all in her power to promote the move-
ment.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, President R. S.
Weber Stake had been much edified in
hearing the reports, was pleased to hear
Sister Pitchforth’s remarks about the meet-
ing houses and tenements, felt if we could
only get some donation from each Stake of
Zion we could build a place of our own
thought we should not feel poor, we have
not had cyclones, and the high winds we
had were only a taste of what the world is
having; we have plenty of opportunities to
do good, we need to ask our Father in
heaven what our duty is from time to time;
the Lord blesses us in this work, and how
much better can we do, is for each of us to
answer; we don’t know any of us how
soon we may need help ourselves, thought
we should be very charitable and tender to
the sick and the sorrowing. The Bishops
sent for her and her Counselors when they
needed their assistance, and she always
tried to respond and do all she could
whether in organizing, or in administering
to the sick, or caring for the dead. She
felt she would like to get a little Temple
work done, but the living also must be
cared for, did not know whether she had
done the best she could but was trying to,
thought we often had impressions for our
good.
	Sister B. W. Smith felt happy and had
enjoyed the day, we should not be ashamed
of this work but take delight in it, she
liked to see her sisters old and young, love
was necessary to all, and for the dead, we
love them more as we labor for them; the
way we can gain the affections of our friends
and our children is by an increase of love; 
giving among the poor and receiving their
blessings, brings a blessing to us, they have
the greatest promises and we should re-
member them and in that we get the same
blessing; she loved to associate with good
and faithful people, and had enjoyed great
advantages in that respect; was very well
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and his
father and mother and brothers and sisters,
she saw Brother Joseph the first day the
ordinance was performed for the dead, saw
him go down into the water the first time.
She had ministered much in Temples and
thought that was why she felt so much
interest in the work for the dead; she
realized also the blessings of patriarchs,
she had been much impressed by the bless-
ing of Patriarch Father Smith, and advised
the young people to get their patriarchal
blessings. Sister Smith also made some
remarks about the Kindergarten the teach-
ing given the little ones, especially upon
honesty, truth and virtue.
	Sister Zina referred to her visit to Poca-
tello and commended the labors of the
President there, Sister Regina Pond, and
the labors of the sisters they were so
united; they have a fine hall owned by
the sisters with every convenience for meet-
ing and taking care of articles used in their
work; also furnishing and stove and dishes
for picnics or entertainments all in order; 
she was there on the first of August, and it
was the 60th anniversary of her baptism in
the State of New York. Sister Zina spoke
earnestly of the silk industry and of the
EXPONENT, said “ You may call them my
hobbies if you will, ” said too if we would

[Column 2]
live within our means and would study
economy we would be blest and would not
need to complain, she had seen times when
she had got on her knees to ask the Lord
for something to eat, we did not know
much about hard times now. Sister Zina
then spoke a few words very impressively
in tongues; the interpretation was given by
Sister Elizabeth Marriott of Weber Stake.
Sister Jane Holt, Counselor in the R. S.
of Davis Stake made a brief report in the
absence of the President, Sister Susan Grant
who was absent in the North, having been
called to her daughter Sister Vilate Muir
who was sick, and had since been called
away behind the vail, it was a very sad
death, she had left a number of little child-
ren. Sister Holt spoke highly of Sister
Grant’s faithful labors and of the union
among the sisters in their labors of love,
also made special mention of the saving of
of wheat. Congregation sang “The Spirit
of God; the Conference was adjourned un-
til April, 1897, closing prayer by Sister E.
B. Wells.
