EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE sisters will we trust read the arti-
cles containing information of the National
Council of Women, as it is the organiza-
tion to which the Relief Society and Y. L.
M. A. are connected, and in which Zina D.
H. Young and Elmina S. Taylor are Vice-
Presidents by virtue of their office as Presi-
dents of these two great Associations, and
they are consulted in all matters pertain-
ing to the National Society as a whole. It
is well for all our Relief Society and also
the Young Ladies’ to make themselves
familiar with the workings of the Council
as it is a powerful organized body of wo-
men of great attainments and influence, and
cannot fail to accomplish much in the ad-
vancement of the world and the better-
ment of society.
	TWO celebrated women visited Utah dur-
ing the election time with a view of writ-
ing up the woman’s side of the election.
Mrs. Black well known as (Annie Laurie)
in San Francisco and New York papers;
and Virginia V. Douge, who was sent here
by the National Republican Committee.
We hope we shall see the published account
given by them of the recent election, as we
think we know something of the subject
from the inside view. Both these ladies
are accomplished and talented women, and
will doubtless handle the subject in a mas-
terly way. Miss Douge has lived much in
Spanish American countries, and has writ-
ten considerably upon subjects relating to
these countries, has also published some
books; does artistic work of various kinds;
is somewhat familiar with the silk industry
in Utah, having been connected with the
Committee of Judges at the World’s Fair.
Miss Douge lectured in Logan before the
students of the Agricultural College of
Logan by invitation, during her stay in
Utah of only a few days.
	THE notice of the demise of Sister Rachel
Tanner published was taken from the
Deseret Evening News, and though com-
plete in itself and historical also, yet we
wish to add a word or two in honor of this
veteran saint who has passed away. Our
readers will remember we published the
sixtieth wedding anniversary party held
at her daughter’s, Sister E. S. Richards
in this city last June 30th. Sister Tanner
was looking very frail at that time, yet her
death being so near was not then thought
of. Sister Tanner had at the time of her


demise more than one hundred descendants
and only a few days before she passed away
she remarked that of all the numerous
children and grand-children she had never
had an unkind word. This is a remarka-
ble testimony and shows beyond a doubt in
what high esteem she was held by her
family. This record of itself is an en-
comuim upon her life any mother in Israel
might be proud of, in a day when there is
so much indifference to superiors and lack
of reverence for the aged.


[Column 1]
