A KENSINGTON TEA.

	MRS. JAMES SHARP gave a delightful
Kensington party on Friday, November 20,
at the handsome family residence on South
Temple. The parlors, library and dining-
room were beautifully decorated with
flowers “in season and out of season;” vio-
lets from the Pacific Coast, carnations, chry-
santhemums of various shades, scarlet geran-
iums, while the faint oder of heliotrope
mingled with the sweet fragrance of the
larger blossoms. The tables were beauti-
ful in snow white damask with fine hand-
painted china, and the repast was dainty
enough for the most fastidious taste, and
was gracefully served by members of the
household which made it all the more
tempting to the guests if that were possible.
The part of the enjoyment most highly in-
teresting was the music given by Miss
Celie Sharp whose exquisite rendering of
difficult music is well-known and on this
occasion was highly appreciated by lovers
of the divine art. Miss Sharp gave im-
promptu Chopin 2nd and 12th Rhapsodies,
Lizt, Tannhauser and others. Conversa-
tion was general and of course interesting
when thirty women or more assembled
principally to enjoy a social afternoon. It
was scarcely an old fashioned tea party,
because there were too many modern lux-
uries and more new fashioned costumes.
	The guests present were Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emma
Woodruff, Sarah Jane Cannon, Charlotte
F. Richards, Susan H. Smith, Susanna
Spencer, Sophia Sharp, Mary A. Freeze,
Chloe Eldridge, Martha T. Cannon, Maggie
Sharp, Sarah Dinwoodey, Mary Schettler,
Carlie Y. Cannon, Maria Y. Dougall,
Phebe Y. Beatie, Camilla Cobb, Martha B.
Winder and Mrs. T. G. Webber, Mrs. S.
P. Teasdel, Mrs. Willard Young, Mrs.
Lafayette Holbrook, Mrs. John Sharp, Mrs.
H. M. Wells, Mrs. Legrande Young, Mrs.
O.W. Beebee, Mrs. James Saville, Mrs.
Ben Eldridge, Mrs. James Hay, and the
writer, Mr. and Mrs. Sharp are to be con-
gratulated on the fine talent as well as the
excellent taste displayed in the family in
music and art, not only have they accom-
plished daughters in music etc., but two
sons who have natural gifts in drawing and
sculpture.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CON-
