HELEN MAR KIMBALL WHITNEY.
	So—by small slow footsteps,
		By the daily cross,
	By the heart’s unspoken yearnings,
		By its grief and loss;
	So—He brings them home to rest
	With the victors, crowned and blest.
	So—by scattered ruins, 
		By sweet links unbound,
	By fair blossoms all unheeded, 
		Trampled on the ground;
	So—He brings them home to Him,
	Where no cloud their joy can dim.
	Perhaps no woman in Israel now living
knew Sister Helen better than the writer,
her past history, her inner life. I knew her
in her youthful pride and brilliancy when
it was often said of her, “She was the
handsomest girl in Nauvoo.” She was
beautiful with the dignity of a queen. I
saw her in the Temple when she plighted
her marriage vows to Horace K. Whitney
(eldest son of Bishop Newel K. Whitney,)
on that day she seemed to have attained the
realization of her ambitious hopes and
dreams! A few days after we left Nauvoo,
crossed the Misissippi river on the ice and
began that wearisome journey over the un-
broken prairies of Iowa; not a very propi-
tious wedding trip. But I am not going to
give you her history, only a few remarks
on her eventful life. She had been almost
idolized by her father, as nearly so as such
a man as the Apostle Heber C. Kimball
could do consistently. When the pioneers
were called to search out a resting place
for the Saints, Helen’s husband and father
were both among the men chosen.
	Those were the days of sickness, sorrow,
privation, hardship and death, such as tried
men’s souls and women’s likewise. Helen’s
first babe a beautiful little girl was born
and died.
	The pioneers returned in safety and there
was great rejoicing when we heard of the
beautiful vale in the West in the fastnesses
of the Rocky mountains.
	The following spring we started across
the plains, when about half way hither a
fine son was born to Helen, and there was
joy over the advent of this little one even
though the way was toilsome and travel
could not be delayed; five days afterwards
he was laid in a lonely grave by the way-
side. It would be impossible to tell the
grief and anguish of the young mother at
this second bereavement. All that faith and
works combined could do was done by lov-
ing relatives and friends. Reason tottered
and only the almost superhuman faith of
her father prevailed.
“And if sometimes commingled with life’s wine
	We find the wormwood, and rebel and shrink,
Be sure a wiser hand than yours or mine
	Pours out this potion for our lips to drink.”

[Column 2]
And if through patient toil we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest 
Where we shall clearly know and understand,
	I think that we shall say, “God knew the
		best.”
	The life of Sister H. M. Whitney
abounds with thriling events, and volumes
might be written of her history, which is in
fact a history of the Church, so closely has
she been connected with its founders and
leading men and women. Intimately
associated with Joseph Smith when a child
and from that time until his martyrdom,
and also with Brigham Young who lived in
Heber C. Kimball’s family after the death
of his first wife in the State of New York,
and journeyed with Heber’s family to Kirt-
land, taking with him his two little mother-
less girls Elizabeth, and Vilate, who were
like sisters to Helen; and Sister Kimball
was indeed like a mother. Looking back
over these events brings to mind many
things of which Helen often talked. The
Gospel was her all, she cared for little else and
being of a particularly spiritual nature she
loved to bear testimony of things she knew
so well.
	After our arrival in the valley early in
Oct. 1848, Horace settled on the lot facing
City Creek where the family lived until
recently. It was there Helen’s children
were born that are living now,and there too
several of them died. One very beautiful
daughter, Vilate, named for Vilate Kimball
others when babes, and one beautiful little
girl the youngest, Phebe. Through all the
trying scenes Helen has been called to pass
she maintained perfect integrity to the truth
of the Gospel and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith; she accepted practically
every principle of the Gospel and was will-
ing to make sacrifices for the establishment
of the same.
	Naturally Helen had literary and refined
tastes but in writing she inclined to the
heroic and prophetic, inheriting from her
illustrious father the gift of prophecy. Her
delicate health was a great hindrance to
her in writing; many times during the
last few years she would have published
her thoughts and views on the burning
questions of the day if she had had the
physical strength; but she has gone now
where she can doubtless give expression to
her feelings without thinking and without
bodily pain. And so one by one the com-
panions of our youth, the friends we have
known in adversity as well as in prosperity
leave us, but by and by we shall all meet
over there if we are so fortunate as to
“Fight the good fight and hold out to. the
end.”
	The early reminiscences that Helen wrote
for the EXPONENT a few years back con-
tained much Church history and were well
worth preserving; her two books “Plural
Marriage as taught by Joseph the Prophet”
and “Why we Practice Plural Marriage,”
are for sale at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor, and are (so far as the writer
knows) the only books of the kind publish-
ed by a Mormon woman. They have gone
to many countries, and these alone should
make Helen Whitney famous.
	As a mother Sister Whitney was exem-
plary, she taught her children faith and the
efficacy of prayer, and she set them a living
example worthy of imitation. As a wife
she was loving, devoted, loyal, true and
constant. Duty was always first whether


[Column 1]
as wife or mother; her devotion to her par-
ents was as exceptional as their love for
her, for certainly with all Helen’s trials and
sacrifices she was greatly blessed in being
favored with the love of parents, husband,
children and friends, and in being shielded
by them from every care and perplexity pos-
sible.
	In friendship no truer woman ever lived
than Helen; she was constancy itself; and
possessed that sweet charity for the weak,
the erring and unfortunate that partakes of
the sublime. All in all she was a grand
and magnificent woman. Of this dear and
departed one the writer can truthfully say,
                     “Thou art the friend
To whom the shadows of long years extend.”
	Helen Mar Kimball was born in Mendon,
Monroe County, New York, August 22,
1828, and was married to Horace K. Whit-
ney in Nauvoo, Illinois, February 3, 1846;
died in Salt Lake City, November 15, 1896,
aged 68 years, 2 months and 26 days. 
	She was the mother of eleven children,
only five of whom survive her, six others
having passed away. What a happy
reunion there must be, and what rejoicing
there when the meeting takes place, far
exceeding in intensity the sorrow of those
left behind.
	Sister Whitney’s funeral services were
held in the 18th Ward chapel where her
son Orson F. Whitney has been Bishop for
a number of years, and where his mother
always attended service when she was able
and has borne many testimonies of the
Gospel. The pure white casket contain-
ing her mortal body was borne by her brothers
and sons in law from the hearse to the chapel;
over the casket was a coverlet of flowers beau-
tiful and pure, emblems of her own sweet
life. Other floral gifts from the children,
relatives and friends were numerous and
very lovely; indeed the fragrance filled the
house.
	The services were conducted by the
Bishop’s Counselor, Robert Patrick, and the
speakers were, after Patriarch Jos. C.
Kingsbury an old and esteemed friend of
the family, Apostles H. J. Grant and John
Henry Smith, President Angus M. Cannon
and President Jos. F. Smith, each one
testifying of her virtue, her integrity and
her fidelity to the Gospel. The music was
furnished by H. G. Whitney and the
Eighteenth ward choir and was very sweet.
Opened with singing “I need Thee every
hour;” prayer by Elder John Nicholson;
singing “Unveil thy bosom faithful
tomb;” at an interval during the services
Miss Bessie Edmonds sang exquisitely the
beautiful solo “The Bright Beyond,” by
special request of the deceased. The entire
service was a remarkably impressive one,
many divine truths concerning life and the
resurrection were dwelt upon and clearly
substantiated by the written words as con-
tained in the Bible and the Book of Mor-
mon. The spirit of the Lord in rich
abundance seemed to rest upon all who
addressed the congregation. Closing prayer
was by Elder C. W. Penrose. Sister Whit-
ney was buried beside her husband, near
other members of the family.
	The music at the grave was particularly
sweet “Rest on the hillside rest,” sung by
a quartette by special request; and so
Helen has gone to rest, that rest on the
other shore for which she longed when
racked with intense pain from which she felt
no earthly power could give relief.
	The grave was dedicated by Counselor

[Column 2]
Wm. Barton of the 18th ward Bishopric,
and when all was finished the coverlet of
sweet flowers was thrown over the mound,
and tearfully the long procession of mourn-
ers turned homewards. May the Lord
comfort them all and especially the child-
ren and grandchildren, and give them
peace, strength and courage to abide in the
faith, and fight the good fight as valiantly
as their sainted mother has done. 
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”
—Psalm CXXVII. v. 2.


