LADIES’ SEMI-MOMTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Meeting held in the
14th ward Assembly hall Oct. 31, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Opened
by singing “Come, come ye Saints;”
prayer by Counselor E. Webb; continued
by singing “O, ye mountains high.”
President M. I. Horne thanked the sisters
for their faith and prayers, felt they had
weight with her Heavenly Father in restor-
ing her to health, gave good counsel to the
sisters to rise and bear their testimonies, for
all would be strengthened thereby. Spoke
at some length on the discernment of
spirits and urged the sisters to be watchful
and prayerful. “Find fault with none but
ourselves; we have no right to judge
another. Attach our faith to no person or
we might be overcome; trust to the Lord
and all will be well with us.”
	Sister Margaret Brown made a few happy
and encouraging remarks concerning the
Gospel and the lives of the Saints.
	Counselor E. Webb referred to Sister
Kimball speaking on the subject of Faith,
and spoke at some length in that respect,
and also of prayer and the work for the
dead, and urged the sisters to attend to this
part of our religion.
	Sister Frances Smith spoke of the work
in the Temple aad how she enjoyed herself
therein, and prayed for Sister Horne and all
faithful sisters.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul spoke of Temple
work and wished she was better so that she
could work still more in that holy house;
also spoke at some length on the subject of
speaking ill of each other.
	Sister Louisa Stevenson spoke also on
Temple work for the dead, also alluded to
being healed by the administration of her
young son.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said as regards
Saints, “By their works ye should know
them.” Urged the sisters to cultivate
Faith and spoke of the revelation in the
Doctrine and Covenants on this subject.
Felt that she could prophesy that Sister
Horne would live for many, many years yet.
Made other encouraging remarks.
	Sister Davis spoke of the faith of her
brother who is on a mission, and how well
he had been received where he was.
	Sister Jane James felt to bear her testi-

[Column 2]
mony and rejoiced that she had beheld the
Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and wished she could go into the
Temple; but she felt to wait in patience on
her Heavenly Father. Prayed to be faith-
ful unto the end and alluded to the time she
embraced the Gospel, and how she rejoiced
even until today in the same.
	Sister Julia Samson spoke of the privileges
of the Saints both in Sunday school and
meetings. Felt thankful for all the bless-
ing she had received at her Heavenly
Father’s hands, and bore her testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Jones bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. Wondered where the
sisters were who used to come to these
meetings. “Surely they have not stepped
aside! I pray for all our sisters in the
name of Jesus.”
	Sister Waterfall spoke of the pleasure it
gave her to be able to come to meeting
again, and told of a vision she had when
she was ill. One whom she saw said “We
are watching you;” also bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Mary Silver encouraged the sisters
to be faithful and true.
	Sister Sarah Goss spoke of the healing of
her little daughter by the faith of herself
and of others, and also of the healing of
her little son and Sister Jones’ mother.
Said she had many blessings by being here
and thanked her Heavenly Father that she
had heard and received the Gospel.
	President M. I. Horne made closing re-
marks; thought she would like us to con-
tinue the subject of Faith next meeting.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Closed by singing “ ’Mid scenes of con-
fusion.” Benediction by L. D. Alder.
	LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
Hall, Saturday, November 14th 1896, Pres.
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “For the
strength of the hills;” prayer by Coun-
selor Elizabeth Webb; singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” The minutes of
the previous meeting were read and approv-
ed. President Horne felt truly thankful
to meet her sisters today, and wished the
sisters to continue speaking on the subject
of Faith for it was Faith that prompted us
to do everything that is good; faith that
brought us the desires of our hearts. “The
humble and the faithful ones are the ones
that will reap the blessings. We have no
time to criticise the actions of the author-
ties.” If they did wrong or were led
astray the Lord would remove them; urged
the sisters to be guarded in their speeches
and prayed God to bless us.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson spoke of her
gratitude in having the privilege of meeting
with the sisters and said it was twelve
weeks since she had enjoyed this treat; re-
ferred to her husband’s illness and said that
through faith and the administration of the
Elders he had recovered. Felt to rejoice in
this. Spoke very earnestly on faith and
prayed we might have a time of rejoicing
here together.
	Sister Waterfall made some excellent re-
marks on Faith, and told how the Lord
had opened up her way before her in a very
remarkable manner. Prayed the Lord to
bless us all. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder though not feeling
well, felt to bear her testimony; urged
the sisters to cultivate the Spirit of God


[Column 1]
and guard against losing it.; felt that fault
finding was the first thing towards it.
Prayed that our faith might increase and
that we might always be in possession of
the Spirit of God.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said it was many years
since she had spoken in this building, and
spoke on faith, bringing up passages of
scripture to explain the meaning and told
of the inspiration she enjoyed one morning
on arising, and which she was compelled
to write. Made some very excellent and
encouraging remarks, and bore a faithful
testimony. Testified that the Spirit of
God was in this room, and prayed the
Lord to bless us all and increase our faith.
	Sister Julia Samson felt she must bear
her testimony. Said her heart was ready
to burst with joy to think we were number-
ed with the Church of the “First Born,”
and felt she could shout. Urged the sisters
to be united and have faith; for we must
cultivate it. Bore a strong testimony.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was pleased
to meet with her sisters, said she had been
deprived of this privilege for some time;
also spoke upon faith. Felt it was faith
that sustained us in our trials; in our
prayers we should always say “Not my
will O, God be done, but Thine.” Her
remarks on faith were beautiful. Prayed
that we might have faith that we could
know there was a God who watched over
us and heard us at all times.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball made some ex-
cellent remarks on faith, and spoke of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and felt that it was
not sustained as it should be. It was a
very excellent little paper and was a wo-
man’s paper and should be sustained by the
women of Utah at least. Urged the sisters
to do better in the future, and refered to the
remarks of Sister Alder on the resurrection,
she also had heard Joseph Smith say that
when the keys of the resurrection were
given it would be so simple that we would
wonder we had not seen it before. Prayed
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Jane James bore a faithful testi-
mony and said she had been terribly afflict-
ed in her head, and she took her consecrated
oil and anointed herself and she was heal-
ed. Felt that that was faith, and praised
the Lord for her blessings.
	Sister Barrow told how she had anointed
her children with oil and blessed them, and
they recovered; also spoke of the gift of
wisdom and discernment; said she had
always been blest with faith. Pra[-]ed
the Lord to help us to overcome evil and
have our faith increased. Testified God
heard and answered prayers when He was
sought in faith. The speaker finished by
speaking in tongues, which was interpreted
by Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul felt there had never
been a greater flow of the Spirit in this
building than now. Told how she had
been blest by going to the Temple. Spoke
on faith, and felt there was a great day at
hand. Prayed we might be able to endure.
	President Horne made closing remarks.
Felt we had had a feast of fat things. Sis-
ter Horne spoke of the EXPONENT; said
there was no paper that had done the good
and allayed the prejudice that that little
paper had done. The price of it was very
low, and in the reach of all. Urged the
sisters to do all they could in this direction,
and speak of it in their Relief Society meet-
ings; also spoke of the Woman’s Store
and the competent help in there now, and

[Column 2]
hoped the sisters would patronize them.
Felt these were temporal things to speak
of, but we had to mix the temporal with
the spiritual. Urged the sisters to induce
and persuade more of the sisters to come to
these meetings; she felt they were becom-
ing better all the time.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing Dox-
ology, benediction by Sister J. C. Howe.
