THE COMING MEETING IN BOSTON.
	THE Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women will be held
this year in Boston the 2, 3, and 4 of Dec.,
in the hall of the Y. M. C. A.
	The meetings of the National Council, as
such, occur triennially in Washington.
The last in 1895, covered a period of two
weeks including three sessions a day. At
these triennials each national society com-
posing the Council finds opportunity to
present its work before representatives of
all the other societies, thus coming in touch
with much larger audiences than it could
otherwise reach. The wide range of topics
and the ability with which they are pre-
sented give a significance and value to these
conferences which should be very helpful in
practical lines of work.
	The Executive Board is composed of the
President and one representative from each
organization in the Council. The annual
meeting of such a Board means more than
simply the transaction of its own business.
This coming session in Boston, while pri-
marily the annual meeting of the Board,
will include three public gatherings of
great interest. At these meetings promi-
nent women from all over the country will
be present, and the occasion will be a
notable one.
	Of the three meetings of the Council this


[Column 
year one will be given to the consideration 
of the work of the organizations composing
the Council; another will be devoted to the
work of the standing Committees. Repre-
sentative workers from all o ganizations
will thus be heard from in regard to the
lines of work unitedly attempted by the
Council. The third or final session will be
given to the consideration of the general
subjects which are under the charge of
heads of departments. Among these sub-
jects will be Religion, Philanthropy, Educa-
tion, Moral Reform, Social Economics and
others
	All members of organizations whether
associated with the Council or not, and all
other persons interested are cordially invited
to be present.
SOME OP THE PEOPLE TO BE PRESENT.
	The Countess of Aberdeen cannot return
from British Columbia in time for the forth-
coming Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women which will be
held in the Y. M. C. A. hall, Boston, Dec.
2, 3, 4. But the International Council will
be ably represented by Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, First Vice-President at large and
former President of the National Council of
the United States. The Woman's Council
of Canada will be represented by its Corres-
ponding Secretary, Mrs. Willoughby
Cummings, and also by Mrs. Archibald,
President of the Halifax Local Council.
	Miss Frances E. Willard, the first Presi-
dent of the National Council is expected to 
add the exceeding interest of her presence
and her words to this occasion.
	Among other well known women whose
faces and voices will be welcomed, will be
the Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, the Vice-
President of the Council, and so widely
known as an able and scholarly orator.
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, former
Corresponding Secretary of the Council,
whose name is a synonym for honest, solid,
practical work, will represent her own
special department in the present Council,
that which relates directly to the welfare of
the Home.
	Mrs. J. Ellen Foster is also expected to
be present at these sessions, and her speak-
ing everywhere is characterized by earnest-
ness that captures the attention and by
logic that convinces the mind.
	The National Woman's Republican
Association of which Mrs. Foster is
President, will also be represented by its
able and charming Secretary, Mrs. Emily
Chace.
	The Woman's Relief Corps will be repre-
sented by its National President, Mrs.
Agnes Hitt, and by Miss Kate Brownlee
Sherwood, Chairman of the Committee on
Patriotic Instruction, who will speak on the
subject of Higher Citizenship.
	Many other women of prominence will
attend these meetings and present topics of
interest and value.
PAST MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
	The National Council of Women will
hold its annual Executive Board meeting
the 2, 3, and 4, of December in the Y. M.
C. A. Hall in Boston.
	Meetings of the National Council always
mean something of more than ordinary
interest. The coming annual session will
include one or more noteworthy meetings.
	Among previous meetings and con-
ferences under the auspices of the Council,
one naturally adverts to the World's Con-

[Column 2]
gress of Representative Women in Chicago
at the time of the Columbian Exposition.
This gathering of prominent women from 
many different countries served as a grand
introduction to the series of World's Con-
gresses. Its sessions lasted seven days and
its program contained the names of more
than three hundred speakers the majority of
whom were women of national reputation
in their special fields of work. This assem-
blage of women including members from
the National Council of England, France,
Germany, Italy and other countries, was
brought together by invitation of the
National Council of the United States.
	At the first triennial meeting of the
Council in Washington in 1891, seven
organizations composed it. The session at
this time was of a week's duration, thirty-
eight associations reported through frater-
nal delegates, and the International Coun-
cil was represented by its American officers.
	During the exposition in Atlanta in 1895,
the Council held a conference which lasted
six days as part of the Congress of Women.
	Among the subjects brought before these
meetings were the Red Cross movement,
practical philanthropy, Florence Crittenden
mission, the education of the future, wo-
man's position in the industrial world, wo-
man's work as minister and missionary,
woman's place in the government, social
economics and many others of equal interest
and importance.
	The notable meeting in New York City
of a year ago—the Pioneer Reunion held on
the date of Elizabeth Cady Stanton's eigh-
tieth birthday—was likewise under the
auspices of the National Council. This
unique gathering brought together for the
recognition of the younger generation the
large number of the white-haired pioneers
in women's work along the lines; education-
al, philanthropic, reformatory, and many
others. The largest opera house in New
York was filled with the guests. Greetings
came from distinguished people all over the
world. A volume including the account
and full significance of the gathering would
prove most interesting reading to a new
generation.
THE COUNCIL IDEA. WHAT IS IT?
	What does the National Council of Wo-
men mean? What does it stand for? What
is its underlying idea?
	This idea is first, that a Council is not
composed of individuals, but of societies;
second, that a Council does not seek to com-
bine people of one mind, but it seeks to
unite societies with different aims, objects
and methods. Thus the National Council
is approximately, and will become more and
more a republic of ideas.
	The Council grew out of a birthday cele-
bration. This was the fortieth anniversary
of “the first organized demand for equal
educational, professional and political rights
for women.” The central idea was that of
freedom for the body, mind and soul of wo-
men. Included within this were all the
other ideas represented by the fifty-one
national societies which this first gathering
brought together.
	The Council idea is to bring together all
 the best thought and hope for the world.
For its education, its philanthropy, its tem-
perance, its industries, its professions, its
legal conditions, its political conditions, its
moral education. Finally, the Council
would organize and unify all these as the
truest method for strengthening and de-
veloping each one.

[Column 3]
	The Council idea is to give “greater
unity of thought and sympathy of purpose”
to woman's work, and has been characterized
as the “climax in the organization of the mor-
al forces of society by women.” Again it
stands for the broadest mutual respect and 
sympathy, and for the peace which “makes
for righteouness.”
	The Council was organized by women
having the sincere belief that the best good
of their homes and of the nation would be
advanced by their own greater unity of
thought, sympathy and purpose, and that
an organized movement of women would
best conserve the highest good of the fam-
ily and state.
ADVANTAGES TO ORGANIZATIONS.
	The organizations which have banded
themselves together to form the National
Council of Women recognize that by means
of the Council Conference they secure for
their special lines of work, a larger hearing
than they can ever command for their
separate meetings.
	Certain special lines of work have been
prosecuted through standing Committees of
the Council, such as—equal pay for equal
work; divorce reform; improved dress;
patriotic instruction; and these can
be infinitely better furthered by such an
aggregation of organizations than by separ-
ate associations of women, each organized
for a special object.
	The existence of a National Council of
Women in any country must also by its
successful prosecution of various lines of
work militate against the multiplication of
the organizations which would otherwise
spring up to cope with these problems.
	No one doubts that the individual wo-
man is broadened and her life enriched by
becoming a member of an organization for
personal culture or altruistic effort. It is
equally true that members of each organiza-
tion of the National Council “find inspira-
tion, breadth and release from limitation,”
through the respect they learn to feel for
the work of women from whose opinions
they may differ radically, yet for the
nobility of whose efforts for the uplifting
of humanity they feel a deep sympathy.
	The advantage that the Council gives
its constituents are seen by a glance at the
following summary of its object.
	To make better known to the general
public the magnitude and variety of wo-
man's work for humanity.
	To avoid the multiplication of organiza-
tions each with some one special object.
	To bring together women of all lines of
work.
	To give the united influence of all these
women to such general kinds of work as
can be heartily agreed upon by all.
	The present occasion though only one of
the regular annual meetings of the Execu-
tive Board, will be attended by many not-
able women from all over the country, and
its public meetings will be of great interest.
	Public meetings will be held Thursday
and Friday mornings, December the 3rd
and 4th, and Friday evening December 4th.
One and one third rates will be given on all
railroads, if the attendance numbers one
hundred. Procure certificates at place
where ticket is bought. Hotels will give
reduced rates.
	MISS ELIZABETH UPHAM YATES, of
Maine, will give her lecture on “China
and the Chinese,” with costume in Town
Hall, Belmont, Mass.


