LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

			FLORENCE Italy,
					Dec. 5, l895.
	Breakfast at eight, as we wish to see as
much of this delightful Tuscan City as pos-
sible, we take early drives in the immediate
vicinity, they are of extreme beauty and we
cannot spare the time when the Galleries
are to be visited. We drive over the Viale
dei Colli, the hilly road leading to the height
of San Miniato from Piazzale Michael
Angelo, where stands his famous statue of
David, we had glorious views of the city
and the valley of the Arno, our manager
pointing out all places of interest and giv-
ing us bits of history. We took a different
route back and paused near the Church San
Miniato, Mr. Mc V. pointed out the Church
S. Niccolo before which the citizens assem-
bled in 1529 to swear to defend Florence.
It was in the belfry of this church that
Michael Angelo concealed himself after the
city, was betrayed to the imperialists, till
Clement VII. had promised to pardon him
the fortification he had constructed. We
drove past a villa of the Medici, now a

[Column 2]
girls' school and the Tarre del Gallo, used
by Galileo as an observatory, and the Villa
where he lived and was visited by Milton
in 1638. We did not go on to La Certosa,
a large Carthusian Monastery built in the
14th century; the prospect is beautiful of
the Vol d’ Emo, they have some fine monu-
ments by Donatello in a chapel dedicated
to the Acciajuolo family. The Monks
make Chartreuse wine; we drank of it.
Hare says Certosa of the Val d’ Emo has a
beautiful position with lovely views and the
convent crowning a cypress-covered hill is
very picturesque. The Certosa was found-
ed in 1341 by Nicolo Acciajuoli, Grand
Seneschal to Queen Joanna of Naples, and
its fortifications were especially granted by
the Republic. The principal church is
decorated with frescoes, marbles and pietra-
dura. There is a beautiful Gothic Church
of 1300; the architecture is attributed to
Orcagna; it contains good Florentine stain-
ed glass; a picture of St. Francis receiv-
ing the Stigmata, by Cigoli; a crucifixion
by Giotto, and a picture by Fra. Angelico.
In another chapel is a Madonna and Child
with Saints, by Perugino, of which I have
a photograph.
	We drove through the via Maggio,
saw the tablet on the wall of Caso Guidi
inscribed to the memory of the English
poetess who lived there so many years and
died there in 1861, Elizabeth Barrett
Browning. On the right of this turning to-
wards the river, at the corner of the via
Marsigli, is the house where. Bernardo
Buoutalenti lived and whither Tasso rode
from Ferrara, to thank him for having con-
tributed to the success of his “Aminta,”
by the scenery he had painted for it. Mr.
Mc V. gave us the story; although we had
read of it, it seemed new and interesting.
	We now drove to the Church Santa
Croce, the Westminister Abbey of Italy
here are buried Galileo and Michael Angelo.
In 1514 Santa Croce became celebrated for
a religious revival under Fra Francisco de
Montepulciano. Over the interior of the
West door is a statue of St. Louis of Tou-
louse by Donatello, not a good work but
the Sculptor said it was good enough for
a man who had been so foolish as to ex-
change a Kingdom for a Monastery. The
rose window is from a design of Lorengo
Ghiberti; below it is a tablet with the
monogram of our Savior.
	The Church is almost surrounded with
monuments of the great men of Italy. Rus-
kin says of some of them, “See those huge
tombs on your right hand and left with
their alternate gable and round tops, and
the paltriest of all possible sculpture, trying
to be grand by bigness, and pathetic by ex-
pense.”
	These immense churches are full of
chapels the Cappella Medici contains the
best church art. There is a magnificent
altar piece by Giotto, “The Coronation of
the Virgin, and in the choir the walls have
frescoes by Agnolo Gaddi; on the left “The
History of the True Cross.” Outside the
church on the South is an arcade ornament-
ed in frescoes by pupils of Taddeo Gaddi it
looks down upon a cloister which ends in
the Chapel of the Pazzi, one of the best
works of Brunelleschi. The dome outside
and the friezes within are ornamented, with
Della Robbia work. In the cupola are the
Twelve Apostles and the Four Evangelists.
The Chapel was used as a chapter-house
and in it four thousand Monks listened to
the regulations issued by Pius V. for the
establishment of the inquisition in Florence.

[Column 3]
	Next to the Church St. Lorenzo ‘which
contains the magnificent Mosaleum of the
Medici’s. The church was due to the mu-
nificence of the Christian Matron Guiliana,
who vowed if she should give birth to a
son to erect a church in honor of Saint
Lorenzo. “Lergusson” says “No church
can be freer from bad taste than this one;
there is no false construction nor anything
to offend. Where it fails is in the want of
sufficient solidity and mass in the supporting
pillars and the pier-arches with reference to
the load they have to bear.” The same
thought was in my mind ere Mr. Mc V.
told us of Lergusson. In front of the high
altar a porphyry slab covers the remains of
Cosimo Medici, in the “New Sacristy,”
are the tombs of the Medici adorned with
M. Angelo’s “Day and Night,” “Morning
and Evening.” Ruskin says “Four in-
effable types not of darkness nor of day—not
of morning nor evening; but of the depart-
ure and the resurrection; the twilight and
the dawn of the souls of men.”
	Strozzi wrote of the figure of night:
	“Carved by an angel in this marble white,
	Sweetly reposing, lo, the Goddess Night.
	Calmly she sleeps, and so must living be;
	Awake her gently; she will speak to thee.”
To which Michael Angelo replied:
“Grateful is sleep, whilst wrong and shame sur-
	vive, 
More grateful still is senseless stone to live,
Gladly both sight and hearing I forgo;
Oh, then, awake me not. Hush, whisper low!”
				[Translated by Wright]
	I at first glance thought them ugly; as I
recall them now, think them beautiful;
his works grow upon you; his genius
has never been contested; all place him in
the first rank as painter, sculptor and archi-
tect. ’Tis said beauties and excellences of
all kinds are to be found in his works; he
sought to obtain the sublime in Art.
							KIM.


CHEYENNE, Wyo. Nov. 6.- For the first
time in history a woman will vote as a
member of the electoral college for a Presi-
dent of the United States. This woman is
Mrs. Sarah Malloy of this city. She was
requested to run on the Republican ticket
and accepted. The honor was thrust upon
her. Mrs. Malloy is a native of Ohio. She
was born in College Centre, near Columbus.
Her father was a soldier in the civil war,
and was retired because of incapacity due to
wounds received on the field of battle.
Mrs. Malloy has lived in Wyoming since
1870. She is in full sympathy with the
woman suffrage, which has been in vogue
in Wyoming ever since she settled in it.
She has served as a delegate to Republican
county conventions, and has always done
her duty. She never misses voting on
election day. While Mrs. Malloy takes
extreme interest in politics, she is a good
housewife and a kind mother. She has four
children, the eldest a civil engineer 18 years
old. Mr. Malloy is superintendent of the
Union Pacific Railroad from Cheyenne to
Ogden, a stretch of 500 miles. Many of his
Democratic friends in the service of the
road voted for the wife of their superior
officer. Mrs. Malloy is being congratulat-
ed for the unique distinction thrust upon
her. She will cast her electoral vote for
Major McKinley.


