REVIEW OF THE YEAR ENDING OCT. 31, 1896.
	THE past year has been one of unflagging
interest and most gratifying progress.
	We have held our meetings on the last
day of every month, with occasional bi-
monthly meetings for the transaction of
business. We do not limit our member-
ship and our members have increased
steadily, and we find by consulting our
roll many brilliant women added to our
number.
	Our object is to encourage young writers,
our president being an adept in bringing
out latent talent; and we find that every
well-directed effort brings its own reward.
	Our work has been nearly all original.
Biographical sketches, original sentiments
and poems, and impromptu speeches. We
have been addressed by many renowned
speakers both of national reputation and
local fame; among the former are the
Misses Chase of Boston; Dr. Sarah J.
Elliott, a friend and champion of Clara Bar-
ton; Laura M. Johns, the W. S A. organ-
izer and speaker; and the beautiful and
talented Elizabeth Upham Yates; and to
others though perhaps not so world famous
but to us none the less dear, have we listen-
ed, Pres. Zina D. H. Young, our Pres. E.
B. Wells, Emma J. McVicker, one of the
Board of Regents of the University of
Utah; Mrs. Emily S. Richards, member
of the Board of the Agricultural College of
Logan; Dr. E. B. Fergusen, a noted

[Column 2]
lecturer and public speaker; Isabel Cameron
Brown, wife of U. S. Senator Arthur
Brown; Mrs. Martha B. Jennings, Presi-
dent of the Utah Federation of Woman’s
Clubs, and many others.
	Our subjects for discussion have been,
historical, scientific, poetical and political;
we have debated the double money stand-
ard, single tax question and Parliamentary
Law. 
	We elect officers once a year. No officer
is permitted, according to our Constitution,
to hold an office more than two years; so
a greater number has the opportunity for
the experience. It has been our good
pleasure to entertain a number of notable
personages, and we have likewise been the
recipient of most pleasant entertainment by
the Ladies Literary Club, and several of
our own members.
	We encourage sociability, feeling that it
fosters love and unity which in turn is the
true secret of strength. We as an organ-
ization have great respect for the general
press; we consider it the friend of practice
and reason, the best exponent of virtue,
and a potent subduer of vice. Think of the
condition of the world before printing was
invented. One writer has said:  “From
that hour the brain and not the arm, the
thinker and not the soldier, books and not
kings were to rule the world; weapons
forged in the mind keen-edged and brighter
than the sunbeam were to supplant the
sword and the battle ax.”
                           E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.


