RACHEL W. S. TANNER.
	SISTER RACHEL WINTER SMITH TANNER died
 at her home in South Cottonwood on Saturday,
Nov. 7th, 1896, aged 78 years and a little over six
months. She was the daughter of William and
Jane Calkin Smith and was born at Bolton War-
ren county, New York, May 1, 1818. When she
was but 13 years of age she embraced the Gospel
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter day Saints. On the 30th of June 1836
she was married to Elder Nathan Tanner who
was then laboring in the ministry and has been a
well know figure in Church history for many
years. She removed with her husband and
parents to Kirtland in the fall of the
same year, where her first child a daughter, was
born. She afterwards went with her husband to
Far West, Missouri, where she shared in the terri-
ble persecutions endured by the Saints such as
burning and pillaging their houses and driving the
Saints therefrom, while her husband was under
guard in the town. Sister Tanner and her sister
were alone at her home about a mile and a half
distant with her only child, an infant daughter,
lying at the point of death. Not knowing what
hour she might be forced to flee, homeless and
friendless, she with her own brave hands dug its
little grave beneath the floor and sat the night
out with her precious babe wrapped in its mantle
prepared to consign its little form to mother earth
should it breathe its last before she was forced to
flee. Through her unbounded love, tender and
affectionate care and fervent faith and prayers,
the babe lived and grew to womanhood; and al-
though she died at the early age of thirty-five had
over forty descendents, the children and grand-
children of Elder James S. Brown of this city.
With her husband Sister Tanner left Far West in
the exodus of the Saints, and moved to a place
called New Liberty in Adams county, Illinois,
where they remained for a couple of years when
they removed to near Montrose just across the
river from Nauvoo. Here they remained till
driven from Nauvoo. From Nauvoo they went
to Winter Quarters where they tarried a year,
and in 1848 they came to Utah and settled at
South Cottonwood. Sister Tanner has been be-
loved by all her acquaintances as well as by her
family for her kind and affectionate disposition as
well as for her devotion to the principles of the
everlasting Gospel. She was fully prepared for
her decease which she met with the same calm-
ness and fortitude that distinguished her through
life. She and her husband, Elder Nathan Tanner
were just previous to her departure among the
oldest if they were not the very oldest living
members of the Church. Her daughter Mrs.
Emily S. Richards is well known in Utah, as is
her son Nathan Tanner of Ogden. She called
her children to her bedside and with a clear
mind and full faith in her glorious future disposed
of her earthly effects, and gave directions as to
her funeral. It was numerously attended in the
South Cottonwood meeting house, where the
services were conducted by Bishop J. S. Rawlins,
who bore a splendid testimony to the worth of the
deceased. Impressive addresses were delivered
by Elders F. D. Richards, F. M. Lyman and F. S.
Richards, and President Joseph F. Smith preached
a funeral discourse of great feeling, power and
light, In which principles pertaining to futurity
were clearly portrayed, and the life and character
of the departed were eulogized in appropriate
language. After benediction by Elder John T.
Caine the remains were followed by a large pro-
cession of carriages to the Salt Lake cemetery.
	Thus this faithful pioneer has gone to join the
goodly company of the blest who have preceded
her, to enjoy the sweet rest of the just and pre-
pare for the glorious resurrection morn, when
those who are in Christ shall come forth to in-
herit the reward that is prepared for them. The
memory of the pure in heart is blessed!
								[COM.


