PETITION FOR POLYGAMY.
	
	The following petition has been prepared
and signed by a large number of ladies in
Lowell, Massachusetts, to be presented to
the Legislature of that State. The petition
has already appeared in a number of lead-
ing Eastern journals, the first to give it
place being the New York Graphic, from
which it was clipped into the Chicago Times
and other papers:
				Lowell, April—,1873.
To the Honorable the Senate and House of
		Representatives of the Commonwealth
		of Massachusetts:
	The undersigned, citizens of the State,
respectfully set forth the grievances under
which they suffer as women who are not
permitted to vote, hold any and all offices,
and engage in the occupations opened to
men, and are otherwise restricted in the
opportunity of earning a living, and here-
with beg your permission to suggest a
remedy for these evils, upon which they
pray your honorable body to act.
	The law which now governs society says,
practically, that women should be married,
should engage in work at their own homes,
and should look to their husbands for sup-
port. On the other hand, the census shows
that it is impossible to carry out this un-
written but recognized law, for the reason
that there is a large excess of women in the
commonwealth, and many of the men of
lawful age are idle, vicious, incompetent, or
otherwise unfit to be heads of households.
Yet your petitioners hold that the matter
is not without remedy. Prejudice and cus-
tom has decided in favor of restricting the
husband to a single wife, yet without justice
and authority, as we believe. In the Book
which lies at the foundation of all law recog-
nized in this country, there is no injunction
against a plurality of wives, while there are
many examples therein recorded in its
favor. Men’s wives appear to have in-
creased in number in proportion with their
flocks and riches. Such a rule even now
holds in the land from which the Christian
nations received their religion.
	Your petitioners have no desire to inter-
fere with the regulations of any existing
[new column]
household, but simply to present their claims
to the marriage state for your respectful
consideration. They deem it their privilege
and their duty to suggest the marriage of a
man to more than one wife, in cases where
the first wife does not object, and where it
is made evident that the man is able to sup-
port the burden laid upon his resources.
They are aware that it takes years to remove
prejudices, and that those who take a second
or third place in the household may be looked
upon with disfavor; but confident that their
proposed action will ultimately do away
with much of the social evil which afflicts
and distresses all communities, they are
willing to be the first to engage in this work
of reform. Society which now insists that
woman shall be married and look to her
husband for support, will, after mature
reflection, counteract this effort to carry out
the law practically.
	It is far from the design of your peti-
tioners to ask legislation in behalf of free
love or any loosening of the marriage bond.
We ask that the marriage of the second wife
shall be made as permanent and binding
as that of the first, and that all the children
of the household shall have equal honor.
And in asking this, we believe we have
taken a long stop toward doing away with
foundling asylums, preventing ante-natal
murders, and lessening the vagabond child
population of our large cities.
	For the reasons enumerated your peti-
tioners respectfully ask the passage of a law
permitting plural marriages in the cases
above enumerated, and under such other
conditions as to your judgment may seem
wise and proper.
	And your petitioners will ever pray, etc.


[For the Exponent.
