EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Mormon question—How many
wives has he?
	The Pope still lingers in feeble health,
not expected long to survive.
	A Rhode Island man is under arrest for
the horrible crime of kicking his wife to
death. Was this worse than brute worthy
to have a wife!
	Mark Twain declares he would go
hungry two days rather than eat an old
personal friend. Such friendship should
be appreciated!
	The Tower of Babel style, is the name we
propose fora kind of head-dress now in vogue.
It rises toward heaven, but its owners will
never climb there by it.
	Fears of a general Indian war over the
west are widely felt, and may possibly be
realized if the cry for the extermination of
the aborigines continues and is sustained by
the country.
	Where women have the right to vote in
school districts, schools increase and grog-
geries decrease. The moral is obvious. Let
there be more schools and fewer dens of in-
temperance.
	The motto of the Good Templar girls of
Salem, New Jersey, is worth recording in
golden letters, and being hung up for gen-
eral admiration and adoption. It is: “The
lips that touch wine shall never touch
mine.”
	Official dishonesty has come to be
looked upon, in this country, as a rather
commendable kind of “smartness,” and as a
consequence, the public have frequent op-
portunities of applauding and rewarding
public robbers.
	A bridge gave way at a baptism at Dix-
on, near the Illinois State line, and precipi-
tating a crowd of people into the river, over
fifty of whom were drowned or killed, is
one of the latest horrors reported; and “no-
body to blame,” as usual.
	Two police captains of New York have
been represented to Mayor Havemeyer as
having pecuniary interests in gambling estab-
lishments. They will probably be promoted
to judgeships or be sent as Governors to
some of the Territories.
	A Marriageable young lady in Iowa
was lately locked in her room by her
father, but her lover got her out by a writ
of habeas corpus, and married her. That’s
what comes of understanding “business.”
More young men should go to studying law.
	Historians and novelists of this country,
will find their stores of foundation matter
for the present period largely increased
from the incidents recorded of the fierce and
bloody “war” with the Modocs. But small,
indeed, are the gains in such instances,
compared with the losses.
	The late claims of the women of Massa-
chusetts, and their petition to the Senate
and House of Representatives of the com-
monwealth of that State, to have plurality
of wives recognized and legalized, in order
that the surplus women may be provided
with homes and husbands, as it is every
woman’s right to be, shows that in this as
well as other matters, the intelligent and
[new column]
thoughtful women of the day, are, without
violating any order or law, superceding
the sterner sex.
	Robert B. Rosevelt holds the ladies
responsible for a drag on legislation on great
days, when they crowd the galleries of
Congress and “certain members air their
rhetoric just to let the ladies see what they
can do;” and he thinks this should be
remedied by the ladies visiting the halls of
Congress more frequently; a remedy which
many ladies would consider a good one.
	Civil war is actually raging in Louisiana,
as a consequence of there being two govern-
ments in the State, one supported by the
United States government, the other by the
majority of the people of the State. Armed
bands of men, supplied with artillery, are
in the field, and bloody contests are of
almost daily occurrence. Is this the begin-
ing of another tribulation?
	A writer from Paris describes a meet-
ing of French women, where she says a mob
was at the entrance, and as a woman rose to
speak, a chair was hurled at her; and as
another woman rose, chairs were hurled
over the heads of the audience. We have
read of the extraordinary politeness of the
“Messieurs,” but was scarcely aware of its
consistency being so similar to that of Chris-
tian purity.”
	It has been proved, by scientific re-
searches, that the perfume of flowers over-
comes noxious vapors that are often in the
atmosphere, especially the exhalations from
marshy grounds or decomposing animal
matter. In other words, they are healthful,
and add to life as well as minister to the
enjoyment of the senses. Plant flowers,
then, for their beauty; and perfume flowers
for their fragrance; and you will increase
the general health as a result.
	Great men are dropping off suddenly.
Chief Justice Chase, a truly great man, a
“pillar in the State of solid form,” a just
judge, a wise statesman, and a firm upholder
of the Constitution of our country, died in
New York last week; and his funeral ser-
vices were performed in Washington on
Monday, 12th inst. He will long be re-
membered as one of the most conservative
men in the government, at a time when the
centralizing tendencies of the age were
rapidly stripping the American people of
their sovereign rights reserved by them in
the Constitution. John Stuart Mill, the
eminent English political economist and
advocate of woman’s rights, also died last
week at Avignon, France; having left be-
hind him, in his works, a memory that will
be enduring.
	It has been discovered that chalk can be
used as fuel, by placing it in a grate with
alternate layers of coal. If, as some people
imagine, the coal supply of the globe is
rapidly becoming exhausted, some substitute
must be found, but the quantity of chalk in
the world, so far as known, would not meet
the demand for a great length of time. In
burning coal the inhabitants of the earth
now are using up the “preserved sunbeams”
of past ages, the heat then poured upon
vegetation yielding warmth and becoming
useful now, as that vegetation, in the shape
of coal, is returned to the elements by being
[new column]
consumed by fire. But people need not
worry themselves over the prospect of the
world’s being thrown back into barbarism
because of the failure of the supply of fuel;
the same beneficent Hand that formed the
coal beds from the flora of prehistoric ages,
can furnish another supply should this be-
come exhausted.
	One of the saddest things we have seen
recorded for a long time was the case of a
boy fifteen years of age, arrested and impris-
oned in New York the other day, on the
charge of being drunk, yet who had not
taken liquor. On an investigation of the case
it was discovered that before the boy was
born his father had been a habitual but
secret drunkard, and when the fact was
made known to the wife it almost deprived
her of reason. Her child was born, and
grow up bearing all the outward appearances
of being a drunkard though rigidly temper-
ate. He has the air, the manners, the look,
and the reeling gait of one intoxicated, and
when excited stammers, and speaks in
broken words, like a drunken man. Thus
his life has been blasted and his earthly ex-
istence cursed by his father’s sin. It should
be added, however, that the father, when
he learned how terribly the news of his
degradation affected his wife, made and
kept a resolution of reform, became an
altered and temperate man, and is now the
father of a family of bright, intelligent
children—all but the fated first-born.


