R. S. REPORTS.
	Report from Provo: The sisters in the
4th Ward Relief Society are faithful in the
discharge of their duties, and many of them
impart of their substance until I almost
think the receiver fares better than the
giver. Our meetings are not so well
attended as I could wish but the “faithful
few” seem to possess a good spirit and enjoy
our communion together. I believe the
Relief Societies have had a great influence
in uniting the hearts of the sisters and of
doing away, in some degree, with that ex-
clusiveness which has been too much in the
midst of the Saints. We have invested in
Co-operative institutions where we have a
small but perpetual benefit in dividends;
but in consequence of the many poor in our
Ward we have not been able as yet to build
a house but hope to do so in time.
		Repectfully yours,
		  Ruia A. Holden, President.

	The following is a brief synopsis of the
minutes of the 57th meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation of Salt Lake City, held May 10th,
1873, at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms.
	After singing and prayer, minutes of the
previous meeting were read and accepted;
minutes of meetings held in the 9th, 10 and
11th Wards were also read. The spirit of
the meeting was to impress upon the minds
of the sisters the importance of each one
seeking diligently to carry out the com-
mandments of the Lord, as given in words
of counsel and instruction by President
Brigham Young. They were admonished
to take interest in saving their paper rags
and jointly assisting in commencing and
maturing the plan suggested by President
Young, of making their own books. The
Exponent was also spoken of, and the
sisters were urged to renew their subscrip-
tions—those who had taken the first volume
—and those who had never subscribed for
[new column]
it, were advised and solicited to do so.
The subject of writing was introduced, and
the fact illustrated that practice and cultiva-
tion in composition would prove that true
talent and genius existed with many of the
daughters of Zion.  Sympathy and appro-
bation were expressed in relation to the
course being pursued by the women of
Lowell, Massachussets.  Faith and prayer
were spoken of as safe guards against
temptation and sin, and requisite auxiliaries
in accomplishing whatever was undertaken.
The speakers were President Mrs. Mary I.
Horne, Mrs. W. East, Counselors Mrs. B.
W. Smith, E. Howard and S. M. Kimball,
Mrs. Nancy Kennedy, Mrs. Leaver and Mrs.
Eleanor J. Pratt.
	“Medicine” was chosen as a subject for
the next meeting. Meeting adjourned; dis-
missed by singing and prayer.
			Maggie M. Groo, Secretary.
				 
	From the 12th Ward, Salt Lake City,
May 8, 1873:
	The 12th Ward Relief Society was organ-
ized April 29th, 1868, with Mrs. Priscilla
Staines, President, Mrs. Amanda Smith and
Mrs. Ruth Sayers Counselors. On April 7th,
1870, Mrs. Sayers was obliged to resign, on
account of ill health, and Mrs. Emily P.
Young was chosen to fill her place. The
Society is in a flourishing condition, although
but few in comparison attend our meetings.
The teachers are faithful in visiting on
their various blocks, instructing the sisters
and gathering their offerings; and we are
happy to state that the people of the Ward
have responded liberally to whatever call
has been made.  In looking over the books
I see that the disbursements for the poor and
other charitable purposes were for 1868, in
merchandise, $184:98; for 1869, $354:45; for
1870, $232:82; for 1871, $370:05; and for
1872, $399:25; with a balance on hand of
$105:55; making in all of cash and merchan-
dise, $1,647:10.  At a meeting held in the
Ward school house, May 1st, 1873, Counselor Mrs.
Amanda Smith made a motion that we drop the
word “Female” from the name of our Society, in
accordance with the views of our beloved Sister,
Miss E. R. Snow. Also that a report of the finan-
cial state of our Society be made out and forwarded
to the Exponent for publication; both of which
were carried unanimously. Our meetings are held
the first Thursday of every month at 2. p. m.
		   Mrs. Priscilla Staines, Pres.
			" Amanda Smith, }	Counselors.
			" Emily P. Young, }
			" H. A. Hardy, Secretary.
			" Sophia L. Hardy, Treasurer.

	 We are favored with the following from Spring
City, Sanpete County: Our Society was organized
May 10th, 1868, with Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde,President;
Mrs. Elizabeth Allred, first Counselor, Mrs. Ann
Larson, second Counselor, Mrs. Philindia Benson,
Secretary and Mrs. Mary Ann Frantzen, Treasurer.
Having suffered by Indian depredations, as well as
by being sorely scourged by the ravages of grass-
hoppers, and being a small settlement, we have not
accomplished as much as some others under more
favorable circumstances. We have at present $125
in the co-operative store; in the treasury $70;
some grain and other articles; besides a goodly
portion of building material towards building a
house. We have donated to the poor at home,
emigration and other public calls, during the last
year, $182:27. This is not a full account of all
that has been done, for some accounts have been
lost in changing Secretaries.  The word “Female,”
has been withdrawn from the name of the Society
by unanimous vote.
	Our President, Mrs. Hyde, is a faithful Saint,
striving to her utmost to carry out all the duties
which devolve upon her.
	We have suffered severely from the spotted
[new column]
fever; quite a number have died from its effects,
some twenty within the last six months.
	Wishing success to the Exponent,
		Respectfully,
 				Mrs. P. Benson, Secretary.

	This comes from Bountiful, May 2d, 1873:
Having been rather dilatory in forwarding
a report of this Branch of the Relief Society,
we will now endeavor to be as brief as pos-
sible. The Society was organized in 1868,
by Bishop Stoker and his Counselors, as
follows: Elizabeth H. Barlow, President,
Lucinda Sessions and Mary Jane Crosby,
Counselors; Mary Carter Secretary and Cor-
delia Carter, Treasurer. During the five
years the Society has been organized we
have received in cash $564:19; in merchan-
dise, $1,318:09 1/2. Disbursed to the poor
in cash $322:90; in goods, $1,025:07 1/2; have
helped the P. E. Fund; have shares in the
Co-operative store and design building a
hall for the benefit of the Society, which we
have already commenced. We feel it a
satisfaction to know that we can be co-
workers together with and lighten the care
of our brethren, in helping to roll forth the
kingdom of God; and that it is woman’s por-
tion to be full of charity, seek out the
oppressed, the poor, the widow and the
orphan, imparting to them of her substance
—and binding up the broken heart. We
have a great interest in the Exponent—
		Through which we rejoice to hear,
		From our sisters far and near;
		Stimulating ev’ry heart.
		To press on and bear a part.	
	Elizabeth H. Barlow, President.
	Mary Carter, Secretary.

	From Marriottsville, near Ogden: The
Relief Society of Lynn and Marriottsville
was organized April 21st, 1870. Since that
time it has disbursed to the poor of the two
settlements, $103;30; to the Emigration
Fund, $100; has also assisted in building the
Ladies’ Store in Ogden City, donated to the
Marriottsville Sunday School, has at present
two shares (ten dollars) in the Ladies’ Store
and $30 in the Treasury. On the 21st and
22d ult., we celebrated the anniversary of
our organization; held meetings both days,
well attended and favored with the pres-
ence and kind, cheering instructions of
our brethren; after which, we concluded
the little season of social enjoyment with a
"party" at  which good order and harmony
prevailed. We had previously voted unan-
imously to adopt the change of name for the
Society, omitting the word "Female." We
admire and highly appreciate the “Woman’s
Exponent” and design doing all we can in
sustaining that and every good cause.
			Ann Bickington, President:
			Lydia Gates, } 
			Nancy Tracy } Counselors:
			C. Parry, Secretary;


Agnes Goulding, for a number of years
matron of the home for discharged female
prisoners at Dedham, has been appointed
matron of the Clark Institution for deaf
mutes, at Northampton, and enters upon her
duties in June.	
	Carrie N. Forsythe, of Chicago, daughter
of Charles S. Forsythe of Illinois, deceased,
has brought suit in the Circuit Court,
against the National Life Insurance Company
of Chicago, placing her damages at $6,000.
From the bill filed it appears that the
deceased was insured in the “Commercial
League” of the company, which guaranteed
an indemnity of $4,000 at least, but although
proof of death has been duly submitted and
the funds demanded, the company has
refused to pay over the same.


