WOMAN'S. EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
WORKING MEN AND WORKING WO-
			   MEN.
			    ——
— "O! Oh!” says Madam Grundy, “the
idea of our girls setting themselves up to be
some great big “I’s,” and attempting to be-
come ‘business women!' It's perfectly
absurd—it is awful!”
	Why, auntie, has not a woman the same
right to be a business individual that a man
has? She was created like him to live upon
the earth; like him she must eat and drink
and be provided with a habitation wherein
to dwell, and material wherewith she may
be clothed. Is it less honorable in her
to take proper measures to obtain, fairly
and justly, the little essentials of life, or even
luxuries, if she desires them, than to be
dependent on man, or apparently so, for
whatever her fancy or reason may require?
“Ah, but,” says madam, “she amply pays
for all she gets,if she stays at home and
attends to her household affairs with pro-
priety. There is no necessity for a woman
ever to leave the house to find employment;
there is always abundance of work to be
done in every family.” There you are
quite right, Mrs. G., and further, no girl
should be brought up without a knowledge
of house-keeping and cookery. But all this
does not prove that no woman should learn
and practice any suitable trade, art or pro-
fession. In our common schools, girls as
well as boys are required to study mathe-
matics and other branches which are but
little benefit to them, if all they are to be
allowed to think of is preparing meals and
keeping the house in order. But it is their
lawful and just privilege to progress in
knowledge and worth in every form, prac-
tically as well as mentally; and, as men do,
make choice among whatever legitimate
courses present themselves, of the one most
acceptable for gaining—not alone a liveli-
hood—but influence and recognized utility
in society as well.
	“Yes,” argues the old lady, “but it is so
out of place, so improper, for women to be
associated with men in business transactions,
as they inevitably must be, in order to
become acquainted with and successfully
carry on any of the employments which
have been so long controlled by men; such
as clerking, working in printing establish-
ments, etc.” Is it, then, to be considered a
disparagement to either, for men and women
to be in the society of each other? Yet
men who are habitually associated with
women of refined natures, are themselves
superior to other men. They lose their
rude, declamatory and pedantic ways, and
become more chivalric, courtly and elegant
in mind and heart, as in manner and address.
The woman, too, who becomes accustomed
to the society of educated, honorable men,
so that she is at ease and enjoys freedom of
thought and speech in such associations,
becomes also superior to her sex in general,
and to her former self. Her better senses
are awakened; she finds, by continued
conversation with the enlightened of
the opposite sex, that she possesses high
and noble faculties which brighten into
richness and glowing worth under the
influence of intellectual competition; and
grace and dignity take the place of frivolity
and timidity, without changing in the
smallest degree the delicate, chaste, and
gentle peculiarities of her woman's nature.
Did not the Eternal and Allwise Creator,
say it was not good for man to be alone, and
therefore made for him a help mate in the
form of woman?   Wherefore, then, should
there be so great a distinction placed be-
[new column]
tween man. and woman, since they were
created for each other?
	The cause of working men .and working
women being embarrassed and awkward in
the society of the opposite sex, is simply
force of habit. The rich man’s sons and
daughters, who give much of their time
to pleasure and amusement, are continually
brought in contact with companions of both
sexes. Hence, their superior grace and
seeming intellectual powers. The children
of laborers are less-connected and gain less
self-confidence; and then it is thought that
they are less gifted and naturally more
sluggish in mind. But they must not seek
to break the barrier which restrains them—
O no! it is “absurd” for a working woman to
undertake to establish for herself any thing
but the “humdrum” drudge life Madam
Grundy has been, pleased to mark out for
her. If she attempts to advance in the
scale of practical education any higher than
to have an understanding of how to knit and
sew, or scrub and cook, she is growing
“strong minded,” and that is “awful,”
	But after all, work must be done; and in
reality, a woman who will and must work,
has as just a right to work by the side of a
man, as another who will not work and
is able to live without it, has to walk, ride,
dance or sit on the sofa beside one.  Men
and women were not made to dwell separate,
but in the society of each other.	G.


