WOMAN PRINTERS.
			 ——
The following from the New York Sun
of a late date, commends itself to all inter-
ested in woman’s work.  The point made
relative to women not being employed on
morning papers, shows the necessity for
women making work for themselves “at
case,” in which they would notbe compelled
to be out at unseasonable hours, nor be sub-
jected to a task which tests the strength of
the strongest men:
  “The subjoined communication not only
relates to a subject of abiding interest, but
it indicates that its author is in some dis-
tress:
  'To the Editor of the Sun.
  Sir: Will not the editor of the Sun give
employment to a few working women as
compositors, who desire to earn their daily
bread honestly, or some of the advocates of
working women who are continually preach-
ing but never practice what they preach?
Are we to starve because we have the mis-
fortune to be women?
  Please insert this, and possibly some one
of those publishing papers and advocating
the working women’s cause may give us
employment.
						Compositors.’
New York, April 26.
  We cheerfully make room for the fore-
going letter, and earnestly commend it to the
attention of all whom it concerns; but it is
impossible for us to give employment to its
authors.  The compositors of a morning
newspaper must of necessity be men.   All
the labor is performed in the night, and
extends to a late hour after midnight.
Women are not robust enough to bear this
sort of work; nor would it be convenint for
them to be going home so very early in
the morning.
  Our correspondent writes in an unjust
spirit. Those who advocate the cause of the
working women are under no obligation to
give them employment, unless it happens
to be profitable to do so.  The relations of
business and labor are not relations of senti-
ment or charity, and if a man thinks it
desirable that women should have a greater
variety of occupations he does not thereby
become bound to hire any number of women
as laborers when he has no labor for them-
to perform.  If there are any advocates of
women’s rights who contend for more than
justice toward women, those advocates are
mistaken.   All that society is bound to
afford any of its members is a fair and equal
chance in the battle of life; and. this is true 
of women as it is of men.”


There has lately died, at Florence, a lady
well known in the world of letters, though
more remarkable for the warmth of attach-
ment she inspired in men and women of
acknowledged genius, than for the fame of
her own intellectual gifts. Miss Isa Blagden,
the authoress of “Agnes Tremorne,” “The
Cost of a secret,” “The Crown of a Life;”
and many brilliant papers in “Fraser,” the
“Cornhill,” and “All the Year Round,” was
linked to Mr. Browning and his illustrious
wife by the ties of the closest friendship. She
nursed the poetess in her final illness, and
performed the same loving office for Theo-
dosia Trollope, to whose memory, as to that
of Mrs. Browning, grateful Florence has
erected a commemorative tablet. It may
be added that her charitable presence
gladdened the last moments of many obscure
sufferers, in the fair city where she lived
and died, and where she will long be
remembered as a conspicuous and honored
figure.


