			A HAPPY MEDIUM.

	It happened to be my fortune, a few, days
since, to listen to an animated conversation
between two young persons of opposite sex,
in which the natural advantages of man and
woman were contrasted.  The subject was
practically introduced by a couple of uncon-
cerned pedestrians, a man and a woman,
passing along, and pausing to rest; the man
very leisurly seating himself upon a low
fence, while etiquette forbade his com-
panion to do otherwise, than stand. The
young man remarked the advantages, in
such a case, which a gentleman possesses
over a lady. The young woman observed
that such advantages had been created
merely by foolish tradition; that nature and
common sense had had nothing to do with
it She considered that a woman appeared
quite as respectable in any position of ease
and comfort as a man did; it was an un-
generous and unjust age which had recog-
nized such inequality, and any action which
would be improper or ungraceful in a
woman was also improper and undignified
in a man. The gentleman politely remon-
strated, saying that woman was naturally
more refined and chaste, in manner as
in disposition, than man could be; it was,
therefore, less becoming in her to throw off
that desirable attribute of which she had
inherited a double portion; entitling her to
superior respect and consideration, than it
was in man not to cultivate more assiduously
a quality which he had received in less
abundance. Yet, the lady argued, admit-
ting that in a measure her companion’s views
were correct, if independence in thought
and action could be applauded as praise-
worthy in man, why should not woman
seek to assimilate, in, as, much as man
was the acknowledged superior? It was
the brave, proud spirit of self-reliance and
self-discipline which woman found in man
to reverence and bow to.  Why should she
not strive to obtain the same, that her
powers might be no longer inferior, but
equal with man’s? The gentleman allowed
that she should, so far as she might do so
without laying aside that matchless, primi-
tive grace so peculiar to herself—that
clinging, confiding trust and gentleness
which, of all her attractions, was most ad-
mirable in the eyes of man, and rendered
her most endearing and sacred to him in all
respects. But man, he said, should also
cultivate, as much as possible—without
divesting his nature of the smallest noble
and manly characteristic—that patient, lov-
ing tenderness so largely possessed by
woman, that he might be enabled the more
readily to sympathize with her feelings and
enter into her anticipations and desires.
With this the lady agreed, saying, that in
the Lord, and in nature, the man was not
without the woman nor the woman without
the man; and if, while woman seeks to
overcome her whimsical vanities and be
more wise but not less womanly, man would,
endeavor to dispense with his prejudices
and become more charitable, all would, by
and by, work together in blissful conformity,
having reached a happy medium.
	Here the conversation dropped, but the
subject might be treated upon much more
fully, and is a good one for some of the
fastidious young gentlemen, and also ladies
of the day to reflect upon.
								L. L.


﻿There are forty-two ladies in the literary
departmentof the University at Ann Arbor;
medical department, thirty-seven; law de-
partment, four; total, eighty-three.


