HOME AFFAIRS. 
	
	Two more interesting letters from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in the present
number of the Exponent.
	The latest heard from the Palestine party,
Mr. F. Little and Miss Little had reached Lon-
don, on their way home; While President
Smith and the rest were en route to Vienna,
where they expected to arrive in time for the
opening of the World’s Fair, on May 1st.
	The present number closes the first volume
and the first year of the Exponent. The sup-
port which it has received during the past year
has been very encouraging, and its friends hope
that, during the year which will be entered upon
with the next issue, that support will be con-
tinued and increased.
	The Semi-weekly and express line, which
has but a short time been established and in
running order, between St. Charles, Bear Lake
Valley and Evanston, on the U. P. R. R., is with-
out doubt, a source of much satisfaction to the
inhabitants of that portion of country, which
has been so often and so long, comparatively
isolated.
	Where are all the girls and women whose
business it is to go to service in families? Can
it be that they are all finding homes of their
own to keep, either by marrying or by becom-
ing possessed of fortunes which enable them to
live like the “gentle folks?”  There are more
calls for female help in families than people
who are not supposed to have an acquaintance
with everybody’s business might imagine.
	Several communications, have been re-
ceived, which we are obliged to hold over for
want of space to insert them.  It is gratifying
that so many of the intelligent women of Utah
find pleasure in contributing to the Exponent
and filling its columns with useful and agree-
able reading matter; but the paper is too dim-
inutive for their wants, and once more we
solicit all its friends to assist us in the increase
of its circulation that means may be obtained
sufficient for an enlargement to be made.
	Pleasure Excursions and “May walks”
have been given to the young folks of some of
the schools and different associations, during
sunny days,within the last fortnight; and gen-
eral satisfaction seems to be the result with
both the children and adult participants. The
present month is the most favorable season for
[new column]
such times of recreation and enjoyment, as the
excessive heat of the sun, when Summer is here,
will render outdoor exercise less delightful.
	The kind of small-pox which has raged to
some extent for a considerable length of time,
in this city, seems to have been of a fatal
nature in most instances where it has appeared.
It has been the occasion of much regret and
sympathy, among others, to the friends of the
family of Brother James Bourne, three mem-
bers of which—his wife and two children—were
carried off by it within two weeks. There are
no accounts of the disease being extended at
present, and the excitement which it caused
has subsided; but caution should still be re-
garded as necessary, for prevention is much
better than cure.
	The two days’ Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held in the
new Tabernacle on the 3rd and 4th inst., accord-
ing to adjournment at the close of the April
Conference, was another occasion of beneficial
enjoyment for those Saints who were enabled
to attend. Among other interesting matters,
on Saturday, the 3rd, were presented the bonds
of the trustee-in-trust and assistant trustees of
the Church in place of President Brigham
Young, resigned. The bonds, properly signed
and delivered, were read; first that of President
George A Smith, trustee-in-trust, for $25,000,
with W. H. Hooper and H. S. Eldredge as
sureties. Each of the bonds for the assistant
trustees-in-trust were for $10,000, the principals
and sureties being as follows: John Sharp,
principal; William Jennings and John Sharp,
junr., sureties. Joseph W. Young, principal;
Robert Gardner and Daniel D. McCarthy,
sureties. John L. Smith, principal; Jesse W.
Fox and Robert L. Campbell, sureties. Le
Grand Young, principal; Joseph Young, and
Joseph A. Young, sureties. Joseph F. Smith,
principal; L. W. Hardy and Angus M. Cannon,
sureties. John Van Cott, principal; A. C.
Pyper and David McKenzie, sureties. E. F.
Sheets, principal; W. H. Hooper and Edward
Hunter sureties. Moses Thatcher, principal;
B. Young, junr. and Thomas W. Ellerbeck,
sureties. Amos Milton Musser, principal; J.
C. Little and B. Young, junr., sureties. James
P. Freeze, principal; Horace S. Eldredge, and
Lewis S. Hills, sureties. F. A. Mitchell, prin-
cipal; Joseph Woodmansee and H. W. Naisbitt,
sureties. Thomas Taylor, principal; John R.
Winder and John C. Cutler, sureties.


The greatest natural bridge in the world
is the Natural Bridge over Cedar Creek, in
Virginia. It extends across a chasm eighty
feet in width and two hundred and fifty
feet in depth, at the bottom of which the
creek flows.
	In an Illinois coal mine, recently, while
the workmen were “running a fault,” they
came upon a tree, supposed to be black
walnut, imbedded in the bed of coal, five
hundred yards below the surface, and from
two hundred to two hundred and fifty feet
from the mouth of the drift.
	Boston keeps within the city limits 2,000
cows. Milk for the city also comes from
other parts of the State, and even from
Maine and New Hampshire. There are
about 600 wholesale and 4,000 retail
dealers. Nearly 13,000 cans of milk, con-
taining in all about 97,000 quarts, are de-
livered daily.
	The ladies of the Woman’s Foreign
Missionary Society of Philadelphia in June
last undertook to raise $10,000 to buy Wood-
stock—a home and school for missionaries’
children in North India.  They have
accomplished their task, having raised the
sum needed.


[For	the	Exponent.
