REFORM IN DRESS.
			 ——
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
   As an advocate for every principle ad- 
vocated for the good of mankind (and woman
kind,) I wish to say a word upon the already
well worn subject of woman’s dress. While
watching the toilet making of a young lady,
whose dressing room I was invited into, not
long since, I could not withhold the excla-
mation, “How can our Father be so merci-
ful! Why are we allowed to live at all,
when we tamper and trifle with the laws of
nature as we do?”  Yet the young lady
asserted, as nearly all fashionable ladies
will, that the prodigious roll which she
fastened upon her head was not heavy, and
that her corsets were not at all tight; and
as we walked down the street, it was
not the high heels and close fit of her boots
that made it painful for her to walk, she
never was able to walk with any comfort in
her life!
	I have reflected, that the very plainest
and neatest costumes worn by American
ladies at the present day, might be much
improved in comfort and convenience with-
out detracting from their appearance. If
half the weight of clothing that is now
generally worn, suspended from the hips
instead of the shoulders as it should be,
could be dispensed with, that would cer-
tainly be a great relief.   And, again; I do
not know of a style of dress in which a
woman can appear respectable on the street
if the wind is blowing.  We nearly all wear
skirts which are so broad and long that they
flap and switch about if we happen out
in a storm, and are not half as becoming or
convenient as more closely fitting garments
would be.   And these common suits are
quite as great a hinderance in working as in
walking.   Around the kitchen stove or
grate, particularly in very busy seasons,
such as washing-day, fruit drying and pre-
serving time, making soap, etc., everything
is in the way, and a woman’s dress, if she
isn’t all the while on the look out for it, is.
catching up every particle of grease and
dirt.
	I wish that some of our sensible leading
ladies, and some of our dressmakers would
take it in hands, and appoint a committee, if
necessary, to establish some- more suitable
and pleasing costumes for the kitchen and
the street than we have at present.
