CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
			    ——
	Damascus, Syria, March 17, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
 In my last I left you at Nazareth.  Our
encampment was near a Greek Church, and
the next day being Sunday, soon after sun-
rise, I strolled in the direction, and seeing
the people gathering, went in where a large
congregation appeared devoutly worshiping.
Unlike the Roman, the Greek Catholics
perform their services in the language un-
derstood by the people, in modern Greek,
and the difference in effect is strikingly
visible in the countenances of the congrega-
tion. After listening some time to services,
to me unintelligible—witnessing the usual
ceremonies of kissing the picture of Jesus
and his mother—sprinkling with “Holy
water” and kneeling and bowing before the
cross; and seeing no one but myself in
foreign costume, lest my presence should
be intrusive, I withdrew, feeling thankful
to God for the gifts and ordinances of the
Everlasting Gospel—particularly that of
baptism for the dead.
  In my preceding letter I mentioned the
dirty streets and dreary houses of this city;
and while in the church, I noticed, as I
have frequently done, what seems to be
general characteristic, i. e., the appearance
of personal cleanliness being in contrast
with the intolerably negligent and uncom-
fortable looking houses the people occupy;
this with both Turks and Arabs, but
particularly the latter. I have, in a great
many instances, seen men dressed in white
from the waist to the ancle; and women from
the top of the head to the feet (and it was
really white) come out of the most untidy
and forbidding appearing dwellings; huts
made of mud with a small opening for
entrance, and entirely without windows—
groups of women in white seat themselves
on the ground, which they do as readily as
[new column]
﻿we do on chairs and sofas, and yet look as
clean as though the soil of earth was not
adhesive.
  But a spectacle of a different kind was pre-
sented before me while at Nazareth.  A
short distance from our encampment, were
a large company of Armenians on pilgrim-
age to Jerusalem, some of them partially
tented—others grouped in squads under the
precarious shelter of projecting rocks at the
foot of a ledge that lined the mountain side.
  They were forty days from Armenia;
their appearance was deplorable. Prompted
both by sympathy and curiosity, I walked
into their midst and the closer view in-
creased my heart ache for poor degraded
humanity! Old, middle aged, and young,
down to the little infant, miserably clad,
and truly the personification of filth. The
sight was a sad picture, for the expression of
their faces corresponded with their outward
condition. Their cooking utensils were few
and simple, and what I saw of their food,
seemed less comfortable and sufficient than
their clothing. But, whatever might have
been the difference in circumstances and
motives, these poor Armenians held one
object in common with us—we were coming
from—they were going to Jerusalem.
  Monday morning, the 10th of March, we
left Nazareth, passing over the hills and
plains of Galilee; saw many of the wander-
ing Arabs, or Bedouins, who live in movable
habitations, and change from place to place,
as suits convenience, for grazing and agri-
cultural purposes. Many of them have large
herds of sheep, goats and cattle; cultivate
the ground to some extent; and raise wheat,
barley, beans, and sometimes other vege-
tables. Their houses, or rather tents, are
constructed of flags made into long plats,
similar to rush window blinds, but of a much
coarser and stronger texture, and sufficiently
wide for the height of the building. These
are set upright in a square form or other-
wise to suit the taste or convenience of the
occupants, and covered with a very coarse
kind of haircloth which is said to be imper-
vious to water. These tents can be taken
down at pleasure and rolled in packages for
transit. Sometimes large villages are built
in this manner; we passed through one,
quite extensive, with some of these build-
ings in course of erection. I noticed several
large ones that were connected together in
line, making a long row, in front of which
were several large soup kettles, and the
apartments seemed to be filled with occupants
—every appearance indicated a community
style of living. I was quite amused with a
churning operation. The cream or milk,
whichever it might be, was confined in a
goat skin which was placed on a rudely
constructed swing, out of doors, and a 
woman was keeping it in motion, back and
forth. These Arabs are apparently of a
lower grade, and are much less cleanly in
appearance than those who live in mud
huts. In going by rail from Alexandria to
Cairo, we found the country dotted with
mud towns and villages. We passed
through one of very small extent, said to
contain twenty thousand inhabitants. It is
very surprising to see how compactly these
people are stowed in their small houses, and
how closely the houses are huddled together.
  I now leave you on the beautiful Sea of
Galilee—a place of more than ordinary in-
terest in Bible history.
					    Eliza R. Snow.


BEYROUT, March 24, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:-
	Aside from the deep interest with which
sacred history clothes the Sea of Galilee, it
is beautiful.  We camped within the walls of
[new column]
﻿Tiberias, a small town, situated on the sea
shore, As I walked along the edge of the 
water, a young daughter of Judah came—
filled a large earthen jar with sea-water—
placed it on her head, according to the
usual custom, and started home. Prompted
by her gracious and friendly greeting, I
followed, and by signs (How much bother
that confounding at Babel has occasioned!)
made her understand that I wished to
accompany her home. She seemed pleased,
and on entering, set her jug down in the
front room, and leading the way into the
second and only remaining one—which was
parlor, sitting and sleeping room, as I under-
stood by being shown where the mats for
lodging were deposited—she introduced me
to an elderly woman who received me very
cordially. The room was very small and
neatly spread with rush or flag rugs over
the earth floor. The two Jewesses motioned
for me to follow them through a small open-
ing—the only one except the door—into a
little garden containing a few “potatoes,”
one or two low trees, a few shrubs, mint,
etc. I had some pretty wild flowers in my
hand, which the young lady threw down
very significantly, at the same time plucking
and presenting me green branches from the
most flourishing shrub in the yard—to this,
although destitute of fruit and flowers, they
seemed to attach a great deal of consequence.
The garden, or yard, had no egress but the
one through which we entered, consequently
we crawled back into the house, when the
young Jewess took me across the street into
another house where we found a neatly
dressed Jewess, with but one room, and I
think at least one-third of that was appro-
priated to donkeys, their portion being
defined by a narrow ditch, which served as
a trough, in which they were feeding. She
was tending an infant, and rising, saluted
me politely and urged me to occupy her
stool which was the only seat present. The
floor was hard, smooth ground, destitute of
carpet or rug—an iron tripod about five
inches high was standing over a fire in the
lady’s portion of the room, on which some-
thing was boiling; and, although whatever
smoke existed, must have circulated through
the room, it was not perceptible. Despite
all of the peculiarities, there was an order
and an air of neatness in this house that
really surprised me. I give these descrip-
tions as samples—these houses appearing to
be about the average type. The population
of Tiberias is mostly Jews, and it has the
distinguishing honor of being the cleanest
town in Palestine.
  The next day President Smith, Professor
Carrington, brother Jennings and two
American gentlemen traveling with us,
wishing to enjoy a boat-ride on the sea, were
rowed across to the mouth of the Jordan,
supposed to have been near the locality of
Chorazin and Bethsaida, while the rest of
the party preferred riding on horseback to
the place of destination, occupying two
hours along the sea side. We passed the
ruins of Magdala, said to be the place where
Mary Magdalene formerly lived, and pre-
ceded the boaters nearly four hours. In
the mean time, Miss Little and myself took
a sea-side walk in search of shells for our
friends at home; but after promenading the
shore and scrutinizing the water’s edge for a
long distance, pronounced it a failure—
selected a few pebbles and returned to camp,
tired, if not fatigued..
	Of the Sea of Galilee, I shall probably say
more hereafter. At this point the snow-
crowned Mount Hermon is in plain sight,
the spur of which we traveled over on the
14th after encamping at Banias, the ancient


﻿Caesarea Phillipi the preceding night.  We
ascended to the height of five thousand feet,
over the roughest passes and trails imagin-
able—sometimes over rocks, apparently as
smooth as glass, and the greatest wonder
was, that our animals kept in standing posi-
tion. But they are trained to rocky, difficult
passes—they know but little of roads; this I
learned after leaving Damascus, from which
place to Beyrout is a splendid macadamized
road, on which between these two points,
the “Diligence” for passengers, and a mail
coach run daily. Until on this road, I had
not discovered that my horse was skittish,
but here—feeling out of its latitude, it was
afraid of everything, and although I had to
be all the time on the watch, I was much
amused; the rest of the animals manifested
in a greater or less degree the same strange-
ness of feeling.
  Before we reached Damascus, for a long
distance the way was lined on each side
with fields of grape- vines, apparently well
cultivated.   We rode through the city and
camped on an open square washed by the
beautiful river Albano; and the next morn-
ing I expressed my willingness to admit the
statement that Damascus keeps forty thou-
sand dogs—their noise in proof.
  Here as has been customary with the
party whenever consistent we had the Sac-
rament administered on Sunday.   Monday
we accompanied President Smith on a visit
to the sub-American Consul, N. Meshaka, a
native Assyrian, who spoke English toler-
ably.  He received us with marked kind-
ness—asked President Smith many questions
concerning our people—politics, religion, etc.
—spent an hour or more in earnest conver-
sation, and expressed himself much gratified
with the call which he returned in the
evening.   Before we left, an attendant
served to each a tiny cup of coffee contain-
ing about half a gill, which, as a national
token of friendship, courtesy prompted us
to accept.
					Eliza R. Snow.


