PETITION FOR POLYGAMY.

	In this issue of the Exponent will be found
a petition purporting to be got up in Lowell,
Massachusetts, asking the Legislature of that
State to enact a law authorizing and legalizing,
under certain conditions, plural marriages.
From other newspaper sources we gather that
many of the signers of this petition are married
women, who, like Emily Faithful, see the con-
dition in which women are placed, and are
prepared to brave public prejudice in their
behalf. But apart from the reasons advanced
therein why such a proposition should receive
legislative sanction, there are still others
which might be most strongly urged. Evil
courses are so common among young men, es-
pecially in large cities, that men of pure and
blameless lives are largely in the minority.
These young men are “sowing their wild oats”
—sowing a harvest that is to produce a crop of
evils, diseases, shattered constitutions, ruind
fortunes, blighted reputations. And when they
have lived lives of intemperance and ludness
for years, then they seek fair, young, pure, vir-
gin forms for their wives; they desire youth,
and purity to minister to their vitiated senses,
and propose to increase the number of diseased,
sickly inhabitants of the earth by their union
with chaste and guileless maidens. They do
not seek wives among those whom they have
dragged down to destruction; they could not
think of associating themselves permanently
with women whose lives have been at all like
their own; but having destroyed virtue, per-
haps at the outset, having rioted with vice and
become tired of ministering to gross sensuality,
they again seek spotless virtue to ally to their
licentious, depraved lives! Are such men fit
to become the husbands of pure women, the
fathers of children borne by pure women? Yet
society, as it exists in most places in Christen-
dom, gives millions of women no choice but
to marry such men or remain single. They
must crush out, or bury beyond human sight,


every holy aspiration, for wifehood and mater-
nity, or accept the hand and share the life of
men who have been steeped in vice until they
are saturated with it. We say must do so; for,
supposing the sexes to be equal at marriage-
able age, the minority of really pure men is
confessedly so great, that no alternative is left
to the majority of women but that we have
mentioned.
	Were the Legislature of Massachusets to act
upon, this petition no one would be compelled
to adopt plural marriage; but it would leave
those free to legally enter into such marital
bonds who desired to do so; and the result
would be an improvement in the morals of
society such as few imagine. It is not alone
that it would close many avenues by which the
“social evil” is now supplied; but when young
men would discover that purity in men was at
a premium among pure women, and that mascu-
line corruption and licentiousness were not con-
doned and overlooked, as at present, the very
instincts of their natures would prompt them
to cultivate a purity now as rare as it is com-
mendable when found.
	Has Massachusetts virtue enough to favorably
receive the proposition?


