HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
			    ——
  Poultry Keeping for Women.—There
are many women who, especially within
the last half-dozen years, while the price of
eggs has been so high, make money much
faster by tending poultry than by sewing.
It is an occupation especially suited to
women, because it involves patience and
constant details rather than strength.  Then,
again, the hardest thing for many men to
learn, in handling either poultry or bees, is
gentleness. How many times we have seen
boys, and men with no more sense than boys,
jerk hens roughly from their nests, enter
the poultry houses abruptly and frighten
the occupants till they rush into the furthest
corner, and keep the poultry community in
constant agitation and distress.   But all
domestic animals appreciate the manners of
female attendants, when they are fortunate
enough to be cared for by them. Now there
are women gardeners and florists who, by
commendable industry and business quali-
ties, have risen to eminence in these callings,
and while one of the most successful bee-
keepers in the world is a woman, we hope
to see others give poultry more attention
than it has hitherto received.   Aside from
profit, the keeping of fine poultry for fancy,
is elegant pastime, very popular with Eng-
lish ladies, and we see no reason why the
fashion should not be adopted in this
country.—Ex.
  Lemon Cheesecakes.—Simmer together
In a sauce-pan a pound of loaf-sugar, four
eggs, the juice of two lemons, and the rind
[new column]
cut very small. When the materials have
become of the consistence of honey, pour
into a jar and preserve for use.
  Lemon and Suet Pudding.—Take some
suet and cut it small, currants, sugar, grated
lemon-peel, ground ginger, eggs, and bread-
crumbs; mix them into a paste, roll them
into balls, tie up in a buttered cloth, and boil
them for twenty minutes.
  Sugar Biscuits.—Mix two pounds of
flour and the same quantities of powdered
sugar and good butter with nutmeg, cloves,
and mace. Make them into paste with some
milk or cream.  Roll into a thin layer, cut
into squares, prick them with holes, and
bake them on tin plates.
  Vienna Cream.—The whites of two
eggs, two ounces of red currant jelly, two
ounces of raspberry jelly, one ounce of sifted
loaf-sugar; put all into a bowl, and beat
until it rises into a thin froth; serve in a
glass dish or custard cups. Though of quite
a dark shade of red when beginning to whip
it, it becomes paler and paler as the froth
rises, and when finished is a very pale
shade of pink.    Apricot jelly can be used
also.
  Head Cheese.—Boil in somewhat salted
water the ears, skin, feet and a proportion
of the sides of the hog, till the meat drops
off or the flesh is quite soft. - Take out and
chop, not so fine as for sausage; season with
pepper, salt, cloves and herbs; mix well to-
gether, and put in a pot or vessel with a
weight on it. When needed, it can be cut
in slices and eaten cold.
  Removal of Ink Spots.—When of long
standing, it is difficult to get them out,
since the iron has become thoroughly per-
oxidized, and must be reduced. The follow-
ing recipe will be found worthy of trial:
Water, one pint; hydrochloric acid, seven
pennyweights.  Moisten the spot with this
solution thoroughly until the color disap-
pears, and rinse with water.
  Felon on the Finger.—Many persons
are liable to extreme suffering from felons.
These afflictions not unfrequontly oc-
casion permanent crippling of the mem-
bers affected. The following simple pre-
scription is recommended as a cure for the
distressing ailment: Take common rock
salt, such as is used for salting down beef or
pork; dry it in an oven; then pound it fine,
and mix it with spirits of turpentine in
equal parts; put it in a rag and wrap it
round the parts affected, and, as it gets dry,
put on more, and in twenty-four hours we
are cured—the felon will be dead. It will
do no harm to try it.
  Cancers are prevented from breaking
out and are scattered by the application of
Winter Green oil.
  To cleanse Closets, butteries, or other
rooms from foul smells, burn coffee, which
is also a disinfectant of contagious disease.
  A pretty window ornament is easily
made by placing in the interstices of a wet
sponge, grains of wheat, rye, peas or any
similar plant, and hanging it-up in the
window, where the plants will very soon
begin to spray out, and after a little
time you have a beautiful green, growing
ball suspended by a cord or ribband from
the top of your window frame.


﻿SEVERAL mercantile gentlemen of this
city, admiring the qualities of Miss Mary A.
Keyes as displayed in saving several of her
comrades at the late fire in Hanover Street,
have subscribed to give her a full mercan-
tile education.  This is equally creditable
to both parties.  “The tools to those who
can use them.”—“Woman’s Journal, Bos-
ton.


