VoL. XVI SEPTEMBER, 1929 No. 9 EDITORIAL Honorary Degrees for Women Not a great while ago women were made happy because President Glen Frank drew to the University of Wisconsin three well-known and well-beloved women in the realm of art. These women were Maude Adams, Minnie Madden Fisk and Zona Gale. There in the presence of the Commencement Convocation they each received the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Utahns were particularly interested in this event on Maude Adams' account, for they have always believed that she has earned any honor that might be conferred upon her. Now Smith College does itself proud by conferring on Mrs. Calvin Coolidge the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. We are using the presentation speech made by President Glen Frank in conferring the degrees on these three notable women. They are of such high literary quality that we feel sure that our readers will be interested in their inclusion. President Frank addressing Miss Adams said: Miss Adams: No one thought you would come to us, because no one thought you existed in flesh and blood; you were to us the discarnate spirit of immortal youth, dwelling in a fascinatingly impossible world of Celtic fancy with "hills which emit white birds and unwoundable pigs, thistle-stalks and fuzz-balls  which take the appearance of armies, witches who shoot heroes through a hole in a leaf, dogs that turn men to ashes by their breath, or produce out of their mouths quantities of gold and silver, harps that spring to their owners and kill nine men on the way, shields that roar to each other and are answered by the Three Waves of Ireland." Certainly you had no right to walk into this stadium on mere human feet; you should at least have flown to us on the wings of fantasy. Because by the winsome witchery of your personality ani the creative contagion of your spirit you have, as Peter Pan, brought the lilt and laughter of youth to a world that must battle with age from the hour of birth, and, as Chanticleer, your lyric call has left eternal sunrise in the hearts of your hearers, I am happy to confer upon you the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Mrs. Fiske: As Miss Adams has brought us escape from the sordid and searing realities of our existence by carrying us into Barrie's and Rostland's world of imagination and fancy, you, like a priestess and prophetess, have brought us insight into the realities of our existence by carrying us into the world of Ibsen and those other social prophets who have made the theater at once clinic and confessional. Because you have guarded the sacred flame of quality in a theater threatened by quantity production, because you have dared to lead the crowd where others were content to follow it, I am happy to confer upon you the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Mrs. Breese: Because, as Zona Gale, you have given Wisconsin her place in the sun of letters; because subtlety and strength of mind, capacity for clairvoyant insight. Into the depths of the human spirit, richness and range of social sympathy, delicacy and determination of convictions, and artistic creativeness that refuses to crystallize into a formula have combined to make you a distinguished daughter of this University; because the ministry of your mind to this generation has achieved that union of mysticism and rationalism towards which valid religion and valid education alike move, I am happy to confer upon you the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Oberlin College and the University of Michigan, two colleges whose doors opened early to the gentler sex, should be looking about for worthy women on whom they may confer honorary degrees. We feel sure faculties will continue to cast about for outstanding individuals on whom by honoring, they can honor themselves. In their search they will not forget women. There are today a goodly number of women in the United States who would honor any institution by carrying the degree of that institution, and their number will steadily increase as time goes on. EDITORIAL 475 The Social Workers Conference The members of the General Board of the Relief Society and others who attended the National Conference of Social Work in San Francisco have returned in a very enthusiastic state of mind. They feel that the convention put over a program highly satisfactory and beneficial to social workers throughout the nation. Most of them seem to be deeply impressed with the message on the New Morality by Dr. Miriam Van Waters, the new president of the National Conference of Social Work. It was a message to the effect that no one may rightly be charged with committing crime until his inheritance, environment and particularly his own individual personality is understood. When we do understand these things we find "that the criminals of today are children who have failed to grow up because of the bad handling of parents. When we understand their actual life histories we see that evil wears the face of a frightened child. * * * The new morality is not merely a process of negation and suppression but it is the natural flowering of a vital human spirit. * * * It is not to terrorize man but to vitalize him." Another problem presented to the organization related to health. It had to do with medical treatment for the masses. It was stated that the poor received the best medical treatment free of charge as do the wealthy who can afford the best. The people who really suffer for proper medical care are of the middle class who cannot meet the physician's fee. It is a matter of gratification that so many members of the General Board were able to attend the conference. President Louise Y. Robison was there as a representative of the Traveler's Aid Society, and made an address before the Traveler's Aid section of the Conference. Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine represented the General Board of the Relief Society. Mrs. Marcia K. Howells, who is a member of the General Board, was also present at the session. From the office force of social workers, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, Miss Lydia Alder, Miss Helen Midgley and Miss Margaret Davis were in attendance. Presidents of the following stake Relief Society organizations were at the conference: Cache, Ensign, Granite, Grant, Liberty, Logan, Pioneer, Salt Lake, San Francisco, Utah; and Bear River, Pocatello, and Wasatch Stakes were represented by stake workers. Such a representation is important to Relief Society workers for it is the only way they can understand and follow the forward movements in social work. In a later issue the Magazine will publish an article on the work of the conference written by a member of the General Board who was in attendance.  Ruth The 'Ruth of the Old Testament symbolizes fidelity to family life. Wordsworth speaks of his Ruth as "a slighted child." Whatever may have been the fate of the Ruths of past days, they are decidedly to the fore at the present time. So much so that it brings to mind once more Shakespeare's far-famed question, what's in a name? A rose by any other name would smell as sweet. We are not inclined to quarrel with Shakespeare's philosophy, yet we do recognize that Ruths in the United States seem to be playing decidedly in luck. There are, in our country, today, many women of force who might go to Congress and represent their districts with efficiency and dignity. But the Ruths seem to be in the public mind, consequently we have the very singular and amusing result of adding three new women to the House of Representatives last year, all of whom bear the name of Ruth. Nor has it stopped there. It was inevitable that a woman should be President of the National Education Association this year. Two women ran for the position but the candidate from Nebraska, Miss Ruth Pyrtle, principal of Bancroft School, Lincoln, Nebraska, was the successful candidate. At least for a period of a year or two leadership has not only extended to women but we have assuredly fallen into Ruth's hands.