BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Concluded.)

	Tuesday the 26th, rather cold and cloudy 
weather. We arose early this morning and
[-]ot started at sunrise. Proceeding 9 miles

[Column 2]

we forded a large tributary of the "Loop Fork,"
about eight rods in width, ascending a hill we
now passed the old Pawnee village, opposite
our old fording place. Going a mile further
we passed a missionary station, consisting
of five or six buildings, that had been built
since we were here before.
	It was now entirely deserted, the Sioux hav-
ing paid it a visit about the last of June when
they tore down the fences enclosing the houses,
demolished the doors, stove in the heads of
flour barrels, and scattered their contents on
the ground and destroyed other property in
divers ways.	*	*	After leaving this
behind we went on a mile further and en-
camped at 2 p.m. near the Old Missionary
station where we encamped on our journey out
having come thirteen miles to-day. In an ad-
jacent cornfield we put our horses where we
gleaned considerable corn that had not been
gathered. Some of the brethren also got
quite a quantity to eat; near the field there was
quite a large patch of oats, which our Ameri-
can horses devoured quite greedily, though the
Indian horses did not care so much about it.
To-day Brother Kimball let me have his
Prince horse to work before my wagon in the
place of John Buchanan's."
	The rest of the journey they found nothing
but cottonwood for their horses to feed upon
and in some places a scarcity of that.
	Friday evening near their camp ground
they found a "liberty pole" raised by P. P.
Pratt, and John Taylor on this journey out.
	Saturday the 30th, after traveling 12 miles
they came to the "Elk Horn River," which
they forded, and "after proceeding a mile
down the stream they encamped at 2 p.m. on
its banks in a large grove of cottonwood hav-
ing come about 13 miles that day. "This
steam was very high so that we were
obliged to elevate our wagon beds before cross-
ing it. Immediately after we were encamped
the brethren were called together in the centre
of the ring, where President Young said that
he wished to know who wanted to go ahead
to Winter Quarters to-night, and if there were
any such to arise; none, however, did. An ex-
pression was then taken whether we should
all remain in a body, horsemen and all, and
go into town together or otherwise; which re-
sulted in the affirmation. President Young
and Brother Kimball then spoke briefly, stat-
ing that they were satisfied with the conduct
of the Pioneers during the journey of the past
season, and soon after we were dismissed with
the injunction to provide plenty of cottonwood
for our horses during the night.
	They arrived home early the evening follow-
ing, Sunday, October 31st. When within a
mile or so of Winter Quarters "a halt was
called, the company was drawn up in order,
and addressed by President Young who then
dismissed the pioneer camp with his blessing."
Many of the brethren and sisters went out to
meet them. They drove into town in order
and the streets were lined with men, women
and children to welcome them "home again."
	When we saw them safe back our joy was
equal to our sorrows. We could doubly real-
ize why the Lord had so moved upon us to fast
and pray, uniting our faith as one in their be-
half, as well as for ourselves during their ab-
sence; and that it had been nothing less than
miraculous that so many were preserved to
meet again, saying nothing of the prosperity
which had attended us. Many of our people
had previously turned their attention to the
manufacturing of various articles, such as
willow baskets, washboards, half bushels, etc.
which they sold to help themselves to a living
and preparing for their journey the coming
spring.
	No picture of despair had been visible, nor
were there any doubts entertained of the ac-
complishment of the journey laying before us,


and the building up of Zion in the valleys of
the Rocky Mountains. The hand of God had
been visible in every trial and to those who
sought Him He was ever near.
	I will now say to my kind friends and all
who have taken an interest in the historical
sketches which I have gathered up that the
changes which have come to me since I began
this pleasant duty, the increase of care and
responsibilities thrown upon me through the
death of my husband, with various duties
which require my attention, I must resign this
one at least at the present, as I find it difficult
to devote the amount of time and thought
which it requires and attend to the tasks in-
cumbent upon me. But I do so with the hope
that it will be taken up by some one of our
sisters who has more time at her command, as
well as ability to do it justice. There are many
unwritten incidents which could be related
with profit, and prove interesting reading to
those who pioneered across the barren, track-
less wastes of the Great American Desert to
these once lone and dreary vales of the Rocky
Mountains, as well as scores who are not of
that number and even many strangers would
enjoy reading of those early scenes among the
"Mormons." Had I not received this assur-
ance from different quarters in these valleys as
well as from outsiders, accompanied with urg-
ent requests to continue these sketches, I should
have long since yielded to private feelings and
discontinued them. I mention this as a stimu-
lus to prompt others to write and give to the
world the benefit of their travels and experi-
ence with this people, who are so grossly mis-
understood and misjudged by the world gener-
ally. For every one of us have a mission upon
this earth, and it is only the willing hands and
hearts, and those who will sacrifice self to the
good of others that will gain an everlasting
triumph, and be crowned to reign throughout
the glorious eternities to come.
	As a closing testimony that a supreme power
preserved this people though they seemed for-
saken and driven out into the wilderness, I
extract one or two paragraphs from a letter
addressed by the Presidency at Winter Quar-
ters to "Elder Hyde, Pratt and Taylor" then
on a mission to England. The following lit-
tle incident occurred in Lee County, Iowa,
while the Saints were encamped, and many
laying sick and destitute on the shore of the
Mississippi in the month of September 1846,
and seemingly starvation staring them in the
face. Flocks of quails "lit upon their wagons
and on their beds, and upon their empty
tables, and the ground within their reach,
which the Saints caught with their hands un-
til they were satisfied and their breakfast and
dinner was full."
	"Not only the Saints saw this but the world.
A steam boat was passing during part of the
time, within six rods and the passengers mar-
veled at the sight, others in the camp, not of us,
wondered also. The occurrence continued
through the day and followed the camp when
they started from the river."
	Tell this to the nations of the earth! tell it to
the kings and nobles and the great ones!! tell
ye this to those who believe that God who fed 
the children of Israel in the wilderness in the
days of Moses, that they may know that there
is a God in these last days and that His peo-
ple are as dear to him now as they were in
those days, and that he will feed them, when
the power of the oppressor is unbearable, and
he is acknowledged God of the whole earth,
and every tongue confesses that Jesus is the
Christ."


