SOME SALIENT POINTS.

	There are some very grave points atissue in the
"Mormon question," that it would be well for
Congress and the public generally, and in fact all
those who are uninformed upon this popular
theme to carefully consider ere they pronounce
judgment, lest, peradventure, they needlessly dis-
tress the innocent, and thereby bring condemna-
tion upon themselves, for they must be aware of
the Savior's words, "What measure ye mete it
shall be measured unto you again."
	First, consider the peculiarly trying circumstan-
ces under which this people left the borders of
civilization and migrated to the Rocky Mountain
region, a journey unparelleled in this age of the
world.  The perils, hardships, sickness and death
which marked the way, of which the most thrill-
ing narratives that ever touched the human heart
might be written.
	Second, the trials and difficulties endured by
the people, including women and children in the
early days of the settlement of these valleys,when
scarcity of food and clothing, combined with the
dangers to be encountered among Indians and
wild beasts made every day eventful in the history
of the people and the country.
	The incidents pertaining to the journeyings and
the sojournings of this people from the time they
left their homes in Nauvoo, until Salt Lake City
was founded and the desert lands subdued and
made fruitful, can never be written as they trans-
pired, and the bearing they have had upon the
hearts of the people it is impossible to tell.
	Third, the generation born and reared amidst
these peculiar conditions, which have stamped
themselves indelibly upon the character of the
children now grown to manhood and womanhood,
is another potent factor in the "Mormon" question,
and it may truthfully be said of them as of the
early New Englanders, "A new order of man-
hood appeared shaped by the dangers and diffi-
culties of the time." Certain it is that children
were born, and it is very awkward, at least at this
late date, to declare they had no right to be born, 
and having been born, and with characteristics as
strong and marked as the mountains that over-
shadow the valleys they love so well, with the re-
ligious elements of their natures so fully developed
and inheriting the settled convictions of the parents,
whose self-sacrifice is now an acknowledged fact,
are they not entitled to life, liberty and the bless-
ings of this free government? Are usurpers and
adventurers to take away their place and rights
of inheritance, socially and politically? Are they
to be disfranchised because of the religious senti-
ments of their parents, which has descended to
them as a right of dower and has become en-
grafted into their very lives?
	Fourth, what of the wives and mothers, who,
having obeyed the most sacred impulses of their
nature, the yearning for maternity, have entered
into conjugal relations, implicitly believing that
Congress could not legislate against a marriage
solemnized by a religious ceremony; and after
having spent all the best years of their lives in 

[Column 2]

domestic happiness with the father of their child-
ren, are, by the special laws made for "Mor-
mons," debarred of every privilege, of association
with the husband, except a bare support.
These women love their husbands as truly and as
loyally as any other women,and we say it fearlessly,
they are honorable, upright and God-fearing, judge
them ye who dare.
	But this is not all, there are young women (who
have our tenderest sympathy) the mothers of small
children, who have not passed through all the
stages of persecution that some older ones have
done, whose lives are only just begun, as it were,
who have entered into solemn and eternal coven-
ants, and whose hearts are bound up in the hus-
band's affection and devotion, even though others
have equal rights with themselves; these ties are
being severed with impunity by the cruel law made
to punish "Mormons;" these young and beautiful
women, these honored wives and devoted mothers,
are given no legal, no moral, no social status in
the discussions upon these questions. What will
be the condition of these heart-broken, suffering,
defenceless women? The husband is either in
prison, or he has left the country to avoid imprison-
ment, or he is under indictment, or in anticipation
of it, and is totally unable to give such attention
to his family as is positively necessary and morally
binding upon him, because of "the law." The
mother must care for and train the children ex-
clusively, while her own heart is being tortured
and her most tender feelings outraged, what will
be the consequences of such conditions upon
these young mothers and their offspring? And
who is to be accountable?
	One of the great writers of our time has said,
"All but felons have their legal rights;" these
people are not felons, and moreover, in the face
of all the world we affirm that a plural wife is not
a polygamist; and yet upon the wife does the
penalty of the Edmunds law fall heaviest.
	Can the Congress of the United States afford
to push these extreme and harsh measures, until
they have had every phase of this question ex-
amined thoroughly by honest, competent and un-
prejudiced persons?
	We appeal to the mothers in this fair land of free-
dom and religious liberty, who want good laws
and self-protection for their own sons and daugh-
ters whom they love so tenderly, to remember that
"Mormon" mothers have hearts as tender and true
as their own,and we ask them to pause ere they pro-
nounce judgment upon men and women who, for 
a religious principle they hold to be divine, have en-
tered into sacred and holy covenants,that are bind-
ing upon them for time and all eternity.
	Is there not sin enough in the world already,
without ruthlessly entering into the sacred sanctu-
ary of happy homes and breaking human hearts,
rending asunder that which God has joined to-
gether, the indissoluble ties of marital companion-
ship?
	These are a few plain statements, not embel-
lished, and they come from one who knows where-
of she speaks, one who loves the land of her
birth, and would not have its record soiled with
such outrages upon women and children as are
now being perpetrated upon those who are power-
less in the hands of wicked and unjust men, who
think all measures justifiable because their vic-
tims are "Mormons."
	Fathers and mothers,husband and wives, states-
men and philanthropists, as you expect justice at
that tribunal where we must all one day stand
upon our own merits, to be judged of the deeds
done in the body, mark well how you deal with
this oppressed and persecuted people, and espe-
cially with the young and inexperienced, and re-
member, it is for the practice of their religious
convictions that they are now arraigned and
brought before the courts—convictions as firm as
those which caused our forefathers to leave home
and native land, and seek shelter and refuge in an
unknown and unexplored wilderness.


