SOME THEATRICAL NOTES.

	We left the house about 9.30 a.m , the time
advertised for forming the procession, and
walked down to Van Ness Avenue—the finest
avenue, I think, in the city; it is so very wide
and has most beautiful residences.	*	*
The procession was very long, and much the
same from beginning to end, but withal quite
interesting. It was headed by the soldiers
from Presidio; I could not help noticing how
poorly drilled they seemed to be; their lines
were dreadfully uneven, and their behavior
anything but soldier-like. They laughed and
talked and turned around to look at the spec-
tators, and carried their guns in different ways,
and in all were much behind the company at
Fort Douglas when undergoing simple dress-
parade, and then compared with the German
forces, as I have seen them drill in Munich
and other cities, they seemed to lack every
thing belonging to the military. I wondered
if the veterans were not displeased with them,
and felt that with such disorderly soldiers the
Union would have a poor show for gaining

[Column 2]

victories, and I also thought, more than ever,
that Europeans were justified in ridiculing the
American army as they do. This is really not
exaggeration; I was astonished to see so little
order among the troops.
	The different banners carried by the de-
partments of the G. A. R. were very beautiful
and artistic, and each brought to mind some
thrilling event of the war. The march of the
veterans was quite touching, and they were
greeted with cheers, hats raised and handker-
chiefs waved as they passed along. Gen.
Logan was cheered more than any one else,
which surely must have been a great mistake,
that is if Col. Jones was among them; but you
see, as the "Salt Lake Herald" stated, he did
not wear a badge with his name on, and I al-
most fear the Californians were as ignorant as
the Utah people, but for fear he might take it
hard if he were not greeted joyously, Belle
and I waved our 'kerchiefs and smiled inces-
santly; I hope he saw us, for we can smile if we
do belong to the much-hated "Mormons," and
we smile whenever we think of poor Col. Jones,
who was treated so meanly by our citizens.
	There were very few colored men in the pro-
cession, but those few received loud and hearty
cheering, but the most interesting part of the
procession were the lines of aged men tenderly
and carefully carrying the old, faded and
tattered flags, that had done their service in
the war, and are now held among the greatest
treasures of the Union. The music was fine,
and all in all I believe it was a grand success,
though the city decorations are not so fine as
many expected they would be.
	Monday evening we all went to the Palace
to hear the band play and catch a glimpse of
the "Great Logan," in neither were we success-
ful, for the Gen. drove out of the court as
we walked in, and the band followed, but we
made a pleasant call on Mrs. Eldredge, and
had quite a nice time watching the great
throng of "fashionable women and brave men,"
to quote Gov. West, the fashionable must here
be substituted for beautiful—promenade the
splendidly lighted corridors.
	We saw Modjeska at the Baldwin in
"Mary Stuart;" she is, as ever, the most grace-
ful and perfect actress of her day.  Her voice
is soft and full, her accent slightly broken, her
costumes most exquisite, and above all, her
subject and fine elocution renders her the most
fascinating and charming "Mary Stuart" I
have ever seen, even though her face may not
be as beautiful as the most fair queen of Scot-
land.
	Last night we were all at the Bush Street
Theatre to see Margaret Mather's Juliet.
Most of the parts were very poorly sustained,
but Miss Mather was really very fine, though
nothing to compare with Adelaide Neilson.
		ANNIE.
	Annie U. [---]


[Column 1]
﻿REASONING ON MRS. NEWNAN'S
