		IN MEMORIAM. 

	DIED, at Georgetown, Idaho, August 1st, 1886, 
while on a visit to her sister, Mrs. Fretwell, of
congestive chills, Mrs. Rhoda M. Carrington of
Salt Lake City, in the sixty-second year of her
age. 
	"In my Father's house are many mansions, were it not 
so, I would have told you." 
	"And He will wipe away the tears, for there is no sorrow
there." 
	Sister Carrington has been a faithful and active 
member of the Relief Society of the 17th Ward 

[Column 2]
from its organization, nearly nineteen years ago. 
She was one of the Board of Appraisers and a
Counselor to Mrs. Julia Pack, President of the
Visiting Committee. All these duties she faith-
fully discharged to the day of her death. 
	She was always thoughtful of and generous to
the poor, and gave freely of her means. Her
counsel was, "Let us look diligently after the poor
that their cries may not ascend against us." She
has borne many faithful testimonies of the truth
of the Gospel, and was desirous to be humble and
faithful to the end of her life. 
	Her death was unexpected to many, but we, 
with whom she was associated, could see how fast
she falled, and many times she has wept and asked
us to pray for her, for her trouble seemed more
than she could bear. As her friends, we assured
her that the Lord still loved her, and would over-
rule all her sorrows and troubles for her good. 
And in her death we feel that Father has been
merciful to her, in that He has taken her from this
weary world to a higher and better one. 
	She was the mother of fifteen children, nine of
whom have preceded her to the spirit world, 
three sons and three daughters remaining to 
mourn her loss. Often, in speaking of the
treasures she had laid away, she has said, "Thank
the Lord I have nine saved; I am sure of
those."
	In fancy I can see her with her nine darlings
around her, some of them babies all go glad that
mother has come to them at last, and can imagine
her joy now, in the labor to care for them, and
after a while to see them attain the full stature of
manhood and womanhood, one of the glorious
works of the millenium. What joy can be greater
than hers to-day? What reward more glorious
than that to which she is entitled? 
	A faithful wife, a fond mother, a true friend, 
what more can be said of a daughter of Eve? 
Yet her loving heart will yearn after those loved 
ones she has left here, and her happiness will be
complete only when they shall be re-united with
her.
	O then, each one knowing the love she bore
you, live so that the love of God will fill your
hearts, and that each setting sun you can think of
some kind word spoken, or some good deed done. 
May her children all live that not one jewel shall
be lost from her crown of motherhood; so that
she can thank God that all her treasures are
saved. 
	She was kind to her friends in affliction. She
came to me when that dreaded disease, nearly al-
ways fatal, took my baby from me, the first one
lost from the home nest. I always think of her 
kindness and cheerful words, though to me all 
was darkness and night. Her last acts were those
of love, nursing her friends, and standing by them, 
while the destroyer, blighted their hopes and
robbed them of a darling. 
	Her funeral was held at the family residence,
August 5th, 1886. Apostle J. H. Smith bore an 
excellent testimony to her faithfulness and worth, 
as also did Bishops Kesler and Tingey. The
choir rendered, "Rest on the hillside." A large
number of friends followed her remains to their 
last rest. Bro. Rodney Badger dedicated the
spot, and we left all that was mortal of Sister
Carrington to await the resurrection of the just. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER. 
Salt Lake City, Aug. 11, 1886.


[Column 1]

