		 HERBERT J. FOULGER, Sec.

	Many of our fellow prisoners and associates,
outside of the marriage relation, are suffering for
crimes of different shades, from the stealing of a
calf to that of the terrible crime of murdering
their fellow man. Some of these, and even the
last mentioned, who have been convicted of the
hightest crimes known to man, have shown that
they still possess some good and redeeming quali-
ties; one and all have exhibited kindness and re-
spect towards myself and the brethren. In some
cases, at least, their punishment seems severe and
cruel in the extreme. I listen now and then to a
few of their unhappy tales, which awaken feelings
of interest, sorrow and sympathy. One, a man of
some thirty years of age, while wandering in the
mountains, and in distress for food, killed a calf,
for which he was arrested, convicted and sen-
tenced to seven years imprisonment. An Indian
boy poisoned a man for having murdered his
father, and although he declares himself justified
in committing the act, the poor fellow is now serv-


ing sentence of perpetual life-imprisonment. A
young man has been sentenced for five years in
the Penitentiary for stealing a colt which he de-
clares was his own property.
	Now and then some scenes occur within these
gloomy precincts which, to say the least, are
rather sad and painful to witness. They general-
ly happen at the first interview between the hus-
band, wife and children. On first seeing the fond
husband and father issuing from his prison through
the ponderous iron grated door, his head closely
shaven, attired in convict garb, then and there
too often are heard the sighs of pain and anguish,
and bitter tears are seen coursing down the
cheeks of the grief-stricken wife and sorrowing
children.
	An incident is told that, the father on retiring
into the prison, at the close of an interview with
his family, while passing through the door, his
child cried out in a pleading voice, "Oh, papa!
come back, come with us, do come home with ma,
now, wont you pa?"
	Another instance: A little boy and his mother
standing upon the walls of our prison yard, while
looking down into the enclosure; suddenly the
little fellow espied his father, and spreading out
his little arms, cried out in the most beseeching
tones, "Oh, pa, come up here, O do come to me!"
It is quite easy to imagine and appreciate in such 
cases, the feelings of parents, by anybody not de-
void of sensibility.
	It is not uncommon,to see women come upon
the walls, stand a few moments gazing down upon 
the imprisoned inmates, then quickly depart with 
eyes overflowing with tears. One woman when 
looking from the walls, and first seeing her hus-
band dressed like a convict, fainted away, and had 
to be cared for by the Warden. Too many simi-
lar scenes, which occur here, could be told, but 
the above is sufficient to illustrate this class of 
prison experience. 
	While taking my accustomed exercise around
over the hard, beaten gravel path, lying along side
my prison walls, nine rounds of which are equal 
to a mile, I am not unfrequently reminded of the 
caged animals I have noticed in a menagerie, ever
tramping to and fro around the iron bars and 
wooden cage. However, there are some interest-
ing points in this enclosure, from which we secure 
fine views of the mountain summits, some clothed 
in their lively and beautiful vesture of charming 
green, while others are seen mantled and glisten-
ing in the sun's sparkling light of the pure, the 
white, the beautiful snow. As we gaze with 
rapturous delight upon the lovely scene, so grand 
and picturesque, we forget for the moment that 
we are convicts, torn from our families; our sacred 
liberties and divine rights wrenched from us by 
the fierce, unrelenting hand of cruel oppression.
But as we turn from this lovely and enchanting 
scene, we are quickly reminded of our situation,
as our eyes rest upon the dark and sombre walls, 
by which we are environed, and gaze upon the
iron bars of our prison, and away aloft we notice 
our Guards upon the watch towers, or treading to 
and fro upon the walls, armed with loaded guns,
while at the same time our ears are saluted with 
the heavy and clanging sounds of the ball and 
chain dragging wearily along the gravelly ground;
and then again when we notice ourselves dressed 
as convicts, we are brought to a full sense of our 
strange and peculiar condition. And yet, we feel 
that we are innocent of crime; that our motives 
have been pure, and consciences clear, and that 
during many long and weary years we have sacri-
ficed the enjoyment of love and happy homes, of 
loving wives and children, often jeopardizing our 
lives in order to engage in awakening people sit-
ting in darkness, from their sleep of death, and 
point them to the way of life, to our Father God, 
to the fountain of intelligence, to everlasting 
peace and exaltation. And notwithstanding we 
have been thrust into prison by the will and sanc-

[Column 2]
tion of the people in whose interests we have 
made many of these sacrifices, suffered these de-
privations, yet our intentions are still to labor for 
their good, and we feel that we cannot do it more 
successfully in any other way than we are now do-
ing, therefore we accept this class of Gospel 
labor, resignedly and cheerfully, knowing that the 
eyes of the world, of angels, the eyes of God,and 
the heavenly host are upon us; and the attention 
of the wicked, Lucifer and his host of evil spirits 
likewise are directed toward us, and they fear and 
tremble in view of the results from the maintain-
ance of our integrity, devotion and fixed resolu-
tion to honor our God, our holy religion, and 
priesthood, notwithstanding the forbidding pros-
pect of life long imprisonment. 
	Says the Prophet Isiah, "How beautiful upon 
the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth 
good tidings; that publisheth peace; that bringeth 
good tidings of good; that publisheth salvation; 
that saith unto Zion, thy God reigneth." And I 
will add: How beautiful to contemplate our 
Elders of Israel, in the Penitentiary of Utah; in 
the prison at Boise, Detroit and Michigan; 
though suffering a lingering martyrdom, yet smil-
ing in their sufferings, and rejoicing that they are 
accounted worthy to be thus persecuted, as were 
the ancient Saints for religious belief, for the love 
of God and testimony of Jesus. 
	There is one important sentiment entertained 
by our brethren here, regarding which, I believe 
there are no exceptions; I often hear it expressed,
viz., "That our confinement, as it regards our-
selves personally, we care not a fig; it is only our
families—their anxieties, and the inconveniences 
they suffer, that we care for, and which gives us 
uneasiness."
	I certainly feel proud of my noble associates;
High Priests, Seventies, of their devotion and 
heroism; willing martyrs for the glory of God; 
and I pray earnestly that I may be strengthened 
in heart and mind to accomplish my share of this 
peculiar Gospel labor, magnify my Apostolic 
Priesthood, and fail in no particular of doing 
whatever is required for promoting and sustaining 
the purposes of our Heavenly Father, in the in-
terest of His Church and people. 
