SWERED AND REFUTED,

As made by Mrs. Newman to the Senate Commit-
	tee of the United States, to procure means for
	anti-Mormon women, who are not of us, but
	have withdrawn from the Church of Jesus
	Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

	I am a plural wife of the late Honorable Orson
Pratt, and know the situation and affairs of my
family better than women abroad, having been
connected with the family alluded to since the
year 1845. I became acquainted with Mr. and
Mrs. Pratt in Nauvoo, and she gave me many
pressing invitations to visit her, and talked to me
freely on the principle of plural marriage, and it
seemed to be in full accord with her feelings that
I should accept Mr. Pratt as a husband. I be-
lieved the principle to be of divine origin, and in
its saving folds I enlisted for time and all eternity,
and if I am faithful to my husband and to my
covenants I shall go into his presence, and that
of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all the holy
throng; of this I have no doubt.
	From the time Mr. Pratt took other wives, Mrs.
Pratt, the first, never knew want. The people
were driven out of Nauvoo in 1846; his other
wives lived with Mrs. Pratt and waited on her
through the journey to Winter Quarters, and
while there she was supplied with a barrel of
sugar, fine flour, hams and other necessaries, and
had her own carriage to ride there in. In 1847
Mr. Pratt came with the pioneers to this valley.
In 1848 Mr. and Mrs. Pratt went to England, and

[Column 2]

she took her children with her, and while there
her children were sent to a high school, and her
son Orson studied music, and is now a teacher
and professor. While there Mr. Pratt made con-
siderable means selling his publications. They
returned in three years to Salt Lake.
	Mr. Pratt was not worth $150,000, as Mrs.
Newman stated before the Senate Committee,
when he come to Utah, nor the twentieth part of
that amount. He had purchased everything to
make Mrs. Pratt and family comfortable—a piano
for Orson Jr. to play on, Brussels carpet, china
ware and furniture to correspond, and hired help
to wait on her hand and foot.
	When Johnson's army came here, and the
Church moved south, she said she loathed the
things she had around her, so plentiful had this
"fiend of a husband" provided for this "woman
of rare exceptional type," and this informer of
falsehoods about her husband, who was ever kind
and indulgent, only too much so, was her trouble. 
Mrs. Pratt always had his means to control, and
I should think a blush of shame would mantle her
cheeks, when she sees such romantic stuff in pub-
lic print as this Mrs. Newman hashed up to men
at the head of the nation—to Senators. I would
much rather "transfer a little yeast for flour" than
such adominable trash as Joseph Cook of Boston
receives on the Mormon question. As for this
Industrial Home, true Latter-day Saints have no
need of it; our time is all occupied; we do not
receive our support from our too much Christian
interferers. We positively will not accept proffered
aid at the hands of avowed enemies to God's law
and to His kingdom, that He has declared with
His own voice, He will set up and usher in the
fulness of times in this last dispensation. We
have a knowledge of these things, and no power
on earth can turn us aside. As for Mrs. Pratt
wanting to tear out the bricks out of the walls,
his other wives never lived in a brick house, and
she would have had to walk one mile to tear out
adobies from the walls of some of his other
wives' houses, and also thirty-five miles into the
country, as some of his family lived there on a
farm, and not many years after we came here, Mr.
and Mrs. Pratt moved south some 400 miles, to
St. George, with her family alone. Mr. Pratt was
devoted to the Gospel which he had embraced;
he went on a great many missions. He crossed
the sea sixteen times to carry the message of life
and salvation to other nations, and was faithful in
good works to the end of his days, as his writings
now show and testify of, and will give the lie to
his "fiendish actions;" he was also temperate in
all things, and a man of unselfish motives.
	It seems to displease our opposers that we vote
unitedly. When our candidate is a good man we
cast our vote for him. We are well acquainted
with his daily life, and if this man possess the
Spirit of the Lord, it makes him still the better.
Our motto is, "In God we put our trust." "United
we stand, divided we fall."
	We will just suppose a case. Suppose we try
to get into Mrs. N's peck measure; we would
stand head and body above it; we can't crouch in-
to so small a compass. And now if the world's 
people and the Christian women of the Methodist
Church have appropriation money to give to
women like Mrs. Pratt, who has several thousand 
dollars out at interest for her support, and leave
their own starving poor to suffer—mothers in their
own cities, towns and villiages under the influence
of liquor, starving children clinging to their torn
skirts, young girls, once fair and innocent, ruined
by unprincipled men, that gloat over their down-
fall, while they can move in fashionabale society.
among these very charitable ladies in the east—
why do so, but don't credit it to the relief of the
"dependent wives of the polygamists in Utah," for
none such will respond. Your state of society
we repudiate. We hold dear the virtue of our 
sons and daughters. The mothers of this com-


munity teach their sons that if they destroy the
character and fair name of the female sex they are
the greatest transgressors, and they lose their
good name and standing in the society of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Why? Because man should be
woman's protector, and not her seducer. We are
now so surrounded by Gentile influence and out-
siders that we are afraid to trust our daughters
outside of home, or our children on the streets,
for now they often get insulted by men that are
not taught to walk in virtue's paths; now we have
to bar our doors against thieves. For many
years after we settled here we had no fear of the
seducer or thief. We left our doors and windows
open and walked through the streets in perfect
safety. No one was idle; all found employment.
To bring a barren waste into as high a state of
cultivation as our defamers find it, cost years of
toil and hard labor to its first settlers. Now men
and women with dilated eyes are ready to take
our hard earned blessings and appropriate it to
themselves. If there are persons who want to
leave Utah let their friends east fix them up a
home there among their own class. I should
think these wise Senators would wonder why
these righteous (?) people want so much to gather
to Utah and get our hard earned means into their
fingers. If they told the truth about us they
would not be so anxious to come here and live;
but they know where to feather their own nests.
They think by throwing dust into the eyes of
those who make the laws, that they will give them,
the minority, the full control of all moneys, and
they can persecute the majority to their soul's
hated content. "May not the Christian men and
women, may not the Federal officers be trusted
with $100,000?" For what? To sink this Territory
into debt, to live in their luxury and ease, to get
the power in their own hands, to tax the whole
people to support Gentile institutions, that the
people would not patronize. Could these hungey,
greedy creatures go into any other community
than Utah's people and be so barefaced? No;
they would not dare do as they do here. If we
were as mean as they say we are, we then could
not come up to their standard for meanness; we
do not try to rob them of their rights. It they
do not like us, will they please to stay the other
side of the great mountains and let us alone. The
government could well afford to give us Utah, for
we have earned it, and this people, they will find,
will be as "loyal" as any of her subjects. They
might afford to treat us as well as they do the
Indians, as long as they think we are not
fit to live among white folks. Let all these
fault finders have a place away from Utah. There
is plenty of barren waste country between Utah
and California. This is the view I take of the
"Mormon" question, and this is a good way to
solve it; let us alone to mind our own business.
We got along all right before they came here; we
made roads and bridges and improved the Terri-
tory without their help, and before railroads, min-
ing operations and moneyed men came here, and
if this raiding business was put an end to the
Territory would progress and build up much faster
and would be freer from crime. The law as it is
construed gives license to bad men and lets the
guilty go free.
