ANNUAL REUNION.

	The meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
19th Ward was held at the ward meeting
house on Tuesday, July 20th, 1886. At six
p.m. a bounteous repast was served to all the
members and invited guests, in the wing of
the building. Three long tables were hand-
somely set and adorned with fragrant flowers.
All the delicacies of the season were there in
profusion, and the happy faces of the young
people added the greatest attraction to the oc-
casion. Meeting commenced about a quarter
to eight, and the large hall was well filled with
young people. On the stand, the President,
Mrs. Mary E. Irvine and her Counselors,
Bishop Watson, Elders Bywater and Fliesh-
man, and Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. B. Wells,
M. A. Freeze and Nellie Colebrook, Miss
Louie Wells, Mrs. Mc.Murrin and Mrs. Royal
B. Young, also Mrs. Ann Player, Counselor in
the Relief Society of that ward. A very ex-
cellent programme was rendered. The read-
ing of a manuscript paper was included, en-
titled, "The Progressive Journal." One article
in the paper was a correspondence between
Miss Emma Brown and Miss Ella Nebaker,
upon the subject of plural marriage. It con-
tained some strong points, and showed the
serious thought of the girls on the subject. A
biographical sketch of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith was given verbally by Miss May Ridges,
which was very well done, and made a pleas-
ing variety. The singing by the girls was
another interesting feature of the evening's


exercises. Several of the sisters made suitable
and instructive remarks, encouraging the girls
to persevere, and urging them to be true to
principle and pure in thought, word and deed.
Bishop Watson spoke very feelingly, and in a 
spirit of kindliness gave the girls such advice
as a tender father would give to his own
daughters.
	Prest. Irvine made a few closing remarks,
manifesting the utmost interest in the spiritual
advancement of her precious charge. She is
well qualified to preside, and has succeeded in
gaining the love and esteem of the members of 
the association, and can therefore exercise a
greater influence for good. An excellent
spirit prevailed throughout the meeting.


