	UTAH STAKE. 

	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, June 25th, 1886,
Prest. Mary John presiding, assisted by her
Counselors, Emily G. Cluff and Marilla M.
Daniels. Conference opened with the usual
exercises. Minutes of former conference read
and approved. 
	Prest. Mary John felt pleased to meet again 
in a conference capacity under so favorable
circumstances. Exhorted the sisters to a faith-
fulness of their duties, and to cultivate the
spirit of the Lord continually to enable them
to discharge every duty placed upon them. 
	The presidents of the different branches of
the Relief Society of Utah County gave 
verbal reports of the several branches over
which they presided. 
	Sister Hyde gave an encouraging report of
the Sanpete Stake Relief Society. 
	Sister Rachel Grant said, "We are passing
through many trials; let us cultivate the Spirit
of the Lord to enable us to pass through these
trials. Make it a study to put from us all
that is displeasing in the sight of our Heaven-
ly Father." She had been blessed in striving
to perform her duties. "Let us respond to the
calls made upon us, however weak we may
feel. Seek to have charity towards one
another." Bore a strong testimony to the
truth of celestial marriage, etc. 
	Sister E. B. Wells, the next speaker, had
seen considerable of the ways of the world. 
Spoke of the sad condition existing therein, 
and of the degeneration in its midst. Had an
interview with Miss Cleveland; explained the
principles of our faith to her; spoke at length
of the principle of plural marriage. "We 
are a blest people, an independent people in
many ways." Referred to the manufacturing
of our own silk, and thereby carrying out the
counsels that have been given, etc, Confer-
ence adjourned till 2 p.m.


Afternoon session opened with the usual
exercises. A written report of the treasurer
of the silk association was read. This organiza-
tion has been a very active one; the late Presi-
dent, Mrs. H. A. Beebe (now deceased) was an
untiring laborer in this interest. At present
the association has no president, but the sisters
are anxious to continue their efforts in silk
culture. Sister Agnes Douglas, of Payson,
made some appropriate remarks on the subject.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, who had recently
returned from the Sandwich Islands
gave an interesting account of her trip, and of
the manner in which meetings were conducted
among the natives, and other matters connected
with their life on the Islands.
	Remarks were made by Sister B. J. Sim-
mons of Payson, which were good and instruc-
tive, and by Sister E. B. Wells. Father
Graves also made remarks in the silk interests.
	Prest, Mary John felt we had had a good
time. "The Spirit of the Lord has been with
us." Desired that an interest be taken in re-
gard to silk raising. "I pray that the blessing
of the Lord may rest upon us. There are
bright days ahead for the Latter-day Saints."
After singing, "Lord, dismiss us with Thy
blessing," conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Anna K. Smoot.
		JANE P. JONES, Sec. pro tem.


