	BEAR LAKE STAKE. 

	Minutes of the Sixteenth Semi-annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Bear
Lake Stake, held in St. Charles, July 17th and
18th, 1886, Prest. Julia P. Lindsay presiding. 
Saturday, 10 a.m. Singing, "Improve the
shining moments." Prayer by Elder Wm. M.
Allred. Singing, "Marching Homeward." 
Roll called for Stake officers and presidents of
Relief Society. 
	Prest. Lindsay was very happy to meet with
the sisters in conference, and to see so many
present; also felt thankful for the good health 
of the people, and for our favorable surround-
ings. The Presidents of the different branches
of the Relief Society, who were present, each
reported her respective society.
	Coun. Elizabeth Collings said, "This is the
place to give and receive instructions." Was
sorry to find so many presidents absent. "If 
they cannot attend they should send some one,
or a written report." Advised all to refrain
from speaking evil of their neighbors, and
avoid everything of an unbecoming nature
that would lower us in the sight of God. 
	Prest. Annie Laker said, "We enjoy great
privileges, and can do much good if we are 
willing. Each one should attend to the work
asigned her. We must labor diligently if we
desire the blessings in store for the faithful. 
Mothers need the assistance of the Almighty in
rearing their children in His fear." 
	The statistical and financial report was read
by the Secretary, after which Prest. Lindsay
spoke at some length on the duties of presi-
dents of R. S. Was pleased to learn that the
sisters had stored so much grain. "We should
work unitedly for the advancement of God's 
work. Let us learn our duties and then de-
vote our energies to the performance of
them." Choir sang, "Beautiful Day." Bene-
diction by Elder B. H. Allred.
	Sunday, July 18th, 1886, 2 p.m., Prest. J. 
P. Lindsay presiding. Choir sang, "To Thee, 
O God, do we approach," etc. Prayer by
Elder Wm. M. Allred. Singing, "If human 
kindness meets return," etc. The sacrament
was administered, after which Prest. Lindsay

[Column 3]
said she was pleased to behold so many cheer-
ful faces, they were so near and dear to her. 
"It is quite a task for those sisters who are ad-
vanced in years to take upon themselves the
public duties and responsibilities that have
fallen to their lot, but God can strengthen us
for all our duties and aid us by His mighty
power. The presidents of R. S. are requested
by Prest. Budge to use their influence in get-
ting what means they can to assist in build-
ing the Stake Tabernacle." 
	Sister Nancy E. Pugmire said, "It is our
duty to attend our meetings, that we may be
instructed in our various duties. Purity and
virtue will bring happiness." Spoke of Solo-
mon and his testimony, after having enjoyed
the riches of this world; he said, "All is vanity
and vexation of spirit." 
	Mrs. Dr. Gray who came recommended by
Prest. Budge, was introduced to the audience. 
	Coun. L. M. Hart spoke of our responsibili-
ties as Latter-day Saints. "We should be 
kind and charitable to each other. Try to
live to enjoy the Spirit of God. We should 
not procrastinate our duties, but rather per-
form them to-day." 
	Bishop J. A. Hunt was gratified with the
conference. "One object of the R. S. is to be
a help to the bishops. The sisters should pay
their tithing and use their influence with the
brethren to pay theirs, then they can claim the
blessings promised to tithe-payers." 
	Prest. Lindsay thanked the Bishop and all
who had assisted in making the house so com-
fortable; also the choir for their sweet music. 
Recommended Dr. Gray. 
	Conference adjourned for six months. Choir
sang, "Rejoice, rejoice in the Lord." Benedic-
tion by Bishop J. A. Hunt. 
	ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec., 
	NANCY HUNT, Ass't Sec. 

