			MARTHA NICHOLS

Of the New York Relief corps, who expressed herself in
	terms of deep sorrow at the prospect of there being
	within the sound of her voice "some woman patiently 
awaiting deliverance from her bondage."

There cometh a cry from the daughters of Utah,
	From women whose sorrows now stand at your door;
So kindly you've offered your loving protection,
	Oh, give them their rights and they'll ask nothing more.

The right to be honored as wives and as mothers,
	The right to protection in honor and truth;
The right they would crave as a boon above others,
	The right to the husbands and homes of their youth.

Then lest you should break down the bulwarks of freedom,
	And scatter the ashes on liberty's shrine,
Oh, give to the people what God has decreed them,
	The right of obedience to law that's divine.

Will you give them a right to a representation,
	The right to a voice where their cause may be heard,
The right of redress from the head of the nation—
	Award them the justice of one loving word?

They have spoken in love, they have spoken in patience,
	They have spoken in words that were tender and true;
They have spoken in actions of silent endurance,
	In love and esteem they are speaking to you.

Is your spirit oppressed with the chains of their bondage?
	Then into your heart they would earnestly plead;
Their husbands are wronged and their substance is squan-
		dered,
	Oh, say, will your voice for their woes intercede?

There are mothers we know, who are loving and tender,
	And wives whose devotion is loyal and true;
If woman should ask for a voice to defend her,
	We ask if that voice would be centered in you?

There are women whose hearts would resist the oppressor,
	Would sacrifice much for the objects they love;
To your sympathy seeking from wrongs to redress her,
	With kindest intentions your loyalty prove.

And give to the women, the "downtrod" of Zion,
	The right to stand forth in their honor and worth,
The husbands they love, and the sons they rely on,
	These gifts they would prize as the highest on earth.

