MISCELLANEOUS.

	The highest exercise of charity is charity to
the uncharitable.—John S. Buckminster.
	Faith is the root of all good works; a root
that produces nothing is dead—Bishop Wil-
son.
	I know no such thing as genius; genius is
nothing but labor and diligence.—W. Hogarth.
	Life and blessing will attend the man who
observes the Sabbath.  The Sabbath of rest is
a continued lesson to him to turn his eye from
all created objects, and look to that heavenly
rest into which God is entered, and which is
promised to man.—J. Milner.
	God loves to see His creatures happy; our
lawful delight is His: they know not God that
think to please Him with making themselves
miserable. The idolators thought it a fit
service for Baal to cut and lance themselves;
never any holy man looked for thanks from
the true God by wronging himself.—R. Hall.
	Children hunger perpetually for new ideas.
They will learn with pleasure from the lips of
parents what they deem it drudgery to study
in books; and, even if they have the misfortune
to be deprived of many educational advantages,
they will grow up intelligent if they enjoy in
childhood the privilege of listening daily to
the conversation of intelligent people. A
silent home is a dull place for young people—
a place from which they will escape if they can.
How much useful information, on the other
hand, is often given in pleasant conversation,
and what unconscious, but excellent mental
training is lively, social argument!—Ex.
	In the presence of a great sorrow, all petty
troubles disappear; but we are too ready to
take some cherished misery to our bosom, and
to pet it there. Very often it is the child of
our fancy; and forgetful of the many means of
happiness which lie within our reach, we in-
dulge this spoiled child of ours until it mas-
ters us. We shut the door against cheerful-
ness and surround ourselves with gloom. The
habit gives a coloring to our life. We grow
querulous, moody and unsympathetic. Our
conversation becomes full of regrets. We are
harsh in our judgment of others. We are un-
sociable, and think everybody else is so. We
make our breast a store house of pain, which
we inflict upon ourselves as well as others.
This disposition is encouraged by selfishness;
indeed, it is, for the most part selfishness un-
mingled without any admixture of sympathy
or consideration for the feelings of those about
us.—Smiles.


﻿The last Legislature of Washington Terri-
tory passed one act that has the approval of
all humane and decent people, viz.: requiring
that an insane woman en route to the asylum
must be accompanied by a woman attendant.
—New Northwest.


