EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reading Mrs. Newman's petition, my
heart is filled with indignation at the falsehood
and injustice of her accusations. Many of her
statements are so ludicrous that I scarcely
know whether to laugh or get angry. Taken
as a whole it is hardly worth our notice, but
when we reflect that the world is ever ready to
believe, without reflection, the many wild and

[Column 2]
unreasonable things said of us, no matter how
absurd or ridiculous they may appear, I feel
that we ought not to pass it by in silence.
   Her position in regard to Brigham Young
is somewhat anomalous as is that taken
throughout, and when I undertake to define
her statements I find myself at a loss to gather
her meaning.
   I had always supposed that suffrage was
conferred on woman at the instigation of non-
Mormons. They said the women of Utah
were slaves; give them the suffrage and they
would soon throw off their shackles. But men
had confidence in the true and loyal hearts
that had stood by them in weal and woe. They
knew that woman would not be false to the
instincts of her nature, and sell the rights and
liberties of her friends and protectors. And
for what? For less than a mess of pottage.
	These men whom we sustain are our fathers,
our husbands and our sons. We stood side by
side with them in the struggle for subsistence,
when this Territory was a barren, desert wilder-
ness, when the howling wolves and the half
starved Indian tribes, who scarce bore the sem-
blance of humanity, were the only creatures
that could subsist in this barren and forbidding
region.
	We stood by them in a boasted land of free-
dom, while fiends in human shape murdered 
and plundered and sent us forth beneath the
chilling frosts of winter and the burning suns
of summer, homeless, friendless, hungry and
weary, battling with the necessities of hu-
manity, and bearing the scorn of the world.
And then because our natural intelligence
prompts us to follow the first law of nature, 
which is self-preservation, she taunts us with 
being slaves. If we are slaves, let us serve the
masters we love and who love us; bondage on 
such terms is tolerable.
	What does she offer us in exchange for our
chains?  She would brand us as harlots and
our children bastards, and then offer us the
poor, pitiful pity of the world. We know it,
and have felt it; God help us, we want it no
more! Brigham Young was not governor of
Utah when the suffrage was conferred on
woman, neither was he when the railroad
came here. She says truly that railroads are
great civilizers. The snort of the engine is the
bugle note of progress. We looked upon it as
such, and rejoiced that the highway of com-
merce was open at our doors. We rejoiced,
too, that people of intelligence could come
among us and see for themselves that we were
misrepresented and traduced. The spirit of
progress and the cultivation of the arts and
sciences would give the rising generation the
opportunities their intelligence demanded.
	When they built the highway across the
continent they found us a simple, a virtuous
and a progressive people, laboring to convert
this mountain region into homes, and making 
it attractive by the hum of industry and the
spirit of contentment. Driven from the con-
fines of civilization, we made [--] OASIS in the
desert, encouraged agriculture and manufac-
tures, made it possible for people to pass over
the highway to the land of gold. What was
there to encourage the settlement of these
valleys? What was there to sustain us in the
battle with hunger, privation and despair?
Faith in the God of Israel alone could do it.
A mining population would have starved; a
gold excitement would have ruined the county.
It takes wealth to open mines, and that we did


[Column 1]
not have. Our leaders were wise enough to
see and understand it, and bade us toil on, for
the soil alone could yield us support. In unity
was our strength, our hope, our safety, and by
unity we have accomplished one of the great-
est achievements of the nineteenth century,
and made it possible for the nation to build a 
road across the continent.
	Wherever a colony planted its footsteps and
erected a few huts to shelter them from the
inclemency of the seasons, there their feeble
efforts have been put forth to foster education,
and some man or woman possessing a knowl-
edge of books or a faculty for imparting in-
struction was employed to teach the children
the rudiments of education in the winter,
while the older boys labored in the field during
the summer months, yet the younger ones
were in school. One of the first requirements
of every settlement, after a few houses were
built for family use, was to build a house,
primitive it might be, but still it was a house,
where the children were iustructed through
the week in such branches of education as their
circumstances required, or could obtain, and on
Sunday it was used to instruct the Elders and
the people in the principles of the Gospel, and
to encourage them in the hope that God had
not yet forsaken them.
	Yes, strange though it may seem, to speak
of the mercies of a risen Redeemer, and rejoice
in the love that could lay down His life to
bring us back to the fold of God. We were 
called the offscouring of the world and the 
scum of creation, but such a conglomerate
could never have subsisted here. Intelligence
and heroism guided by an overruling Provi-
dence alone could make it possible to colonize
and cultivate these valleys.
	"The bugle note of progress sounded by the
snort of the engine," brought also the fester-
ing corruption of civilization, the rottenness
that is striking at the nation's core. The
damning argies of intemperance and debauch-
ery are condoned as the "common weakness of
humanity," and we are powerless to prevent it.
Must we stand by and see our sons led to ruin,
our daughters disgraced,cast aside and forsaken,
when some fairer fond one claims the fancy of
their seducers.  We are taunted as slaves, be-
cause we join heart and hand to protect our-
selves from the spoiler.
	The ballot in the hands of American citizens!
Are we not American citizens, and who should
hold the ballot if not those whose highest in-
terests are in the welfare of the country. She
quotes the act conferring suffrage on woman,
which reads:
	"Every woman of the age of twenty-one
years, who has resided in this Territory six
months next preceeding any general or special
election, born or naturalized in the United
States, or who is the wife, widow or daughter of
a native born or naturalized citizen of the
United States, shall be entitled to vote at any
election in this Territory." She says the
woman or girl that is not the wife, widow or
daughter of somebody is "anomolous." It
does not follow that every woman or girl is the
wife, widow or daughter of a native born or 
naturalized citizen.
	Under the law, as will be seen, women who
had not been six months in the Territory
could not vote or be registered. Every voter
must be registered. In order to register a 
woman must take oath that she is a native
born or naturalized citizen, over twenty-one
years;of age also that she has resided six months 
in the precinct in which she wishes to vote, and
no person can vote whose name is not on the
register list. If the proper requirements were
not complied with the election would be con-
tested.
	In the face of this she makes the assertion
that in two weeks preceding the first election
after the Edmunds law, two thousand aliens,
most of whom had habitually voted, their

[Column 2]
wives and children, as well, were naturalized
in the two district courts of Ogden and Salt
Lake City. She says, "The trains freighted
with recruits for Zion, which arrived a day or
two preceding elections were met at the depot
by Church officials. The emigrants were taken
to tithing headquarters." I believe that is a 
common custom, as they must be taken some-
where until homes are found for them. But
she further says, "Women and girls were then
and there selected by aspirants for sealing
orders, taken to the endowment house and the
marriage ceremony performed. On the morrow
these wives of "native born or naturalized
citizens," wholly ignorant of our language or
laws, or the significance of the franchise, with
the odor of the emigrant ship still upon their
clothing, were full fledged voters, and deposited
their ballots in full conformity with the statu-
tory requirements."
	In face of the law which she has quoted
this seems a strange statement, and, to put it
mildly, there must be a mistake somewhere. I
cannot reconcile my mind to such contradic-
tory assertions, especially as the Edmunds law
reads that a woman must not live with a man
who cohabits with more than one woman, and
the Commission adds, "in the marriage rela-
tion."
	This would seem to complicate things still
more. She says, "In case of a doubtful elec-
tion at a given point, re-enforcements were dis-
patched there from the new colony." Query;
Were they kept six months in the weak pre-
cinct previous to the election and properly
registered there. This would cause consider-
able inconvenience, and if their names were
not on the register the judges of election, who
are many of them non-Mormons, would be
obliged to refuse their vote, or the election 
would be contested.
	She quotes from Mrs. Stenhouse, whose
statements, she says, "are as reliable as truth
itself:" "I have often seen," says Mrs. Sten-
house, "one solitary man driving into the city
a whole wagon load of women of all ages
and sizes. They were going to the polls, and
their vote would be one." That is all right if
it is the right one, but that depends on who is
to be pleased. I wonder if the solitary man
was afraid of so many women. She further
says, "Many have voted two or three times."
There must have been something wrong in the
register, and as registrars were almost univer-
sally non-Mormons we cannot think that "men
christened their mules, conferring upon them
the names of men, and made them vote too."
While I would not for the world dispute the
lady's word, I cannot but think that the mules
must have had most excellent training. It
reflects, too, small credit on the judges and
clerks that they should not know mules from
men. Just imagine his muleship walking up
to the table and handing--no posting. Will
the good lady be kind enough to tell us just
how a mule would deposit his ballot, and if 
any of those present were endangered by his
heels?
	"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and
unrefuted by the Mormon Church, that the
genealogies of the dead, the unborn and the
deceased had been represented at the ballot
box."
	The Mormon Church can afford to let peo-
ple use their own common sense sometimes in
regard to what they believe. Why did she
not say that the dead themselves came there
to vote. The Mormon Church would not have
 disputed it. It is well known by all who vote
 that persons must hand in their own ballots,
and give their names.
	If Mrs. Newman had ever voted she would
not be so extravagant on the subject. She re-
flects no great honor on the heads of the nation,

[Column 3]
when she presents them with such a conglomer-
ate of ignorance and misrepresentation.
	My article is already so long I must pass
over many things I would like to say, but
hope they will be taken up aud discussed by
some abler pen than mine.
