EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A number of the officers and members of 
the Relief Society and also the Young Ladies'
Association met at the residence of Sister
Mary A. Smart, to show our respect to her in
the shape of a surprise party, on Friday, July
9th.  While she was visiting at her step son's,
J. Z. Smart, the people gathered at her house
in her absence, and had the tables spread with
a sumptuous dinner.  When all was in readi-
ness she was sent for.  When she entered the
house she was completely overcome to see so 
many present, and she could not find words to 
express the gratitude and joy she felt on the
occasion.  There were present in all ninety
persons, and after all had partaken of a bounte-
ous repast, the afternoon was pleasantly spent.
There was a programme gotten up for the oc-
casion by the young ladies.  An address com-
posed was read by the Assistant Secretary,
S. A. Forbush, showing the esteem in which
Sister Smart is held by her sisters for her dili-
gence in her office as Secretary of the Relief
Society of this ward; after which Prest. Rich-
ards and Coun. Ann Griffiths and others con-
gratulated her, made many suitable remarks,
and presented her with numerous presents,
and also $17 in cash, in behalf of the two as-
sociations, Sister Smart being a live member of
the Y. L. A.
	Sister Smart expressed her gratitude to all
present for the good will and esteem shown her
to-day by the sisters and some of the brethren,
which she very much appreciated; felt that
she had had the prayers and confidence of the
Saints all through the sickness in her family,
five of her children being prostrated with the
typhoid fever.  She felt to acknowledge that
the hand of the Lord had been over them for
good, for had she been called upon to part
with some of them in the absence of her hus-
band, who is in exile, she felt the trial would
have been severe.  Felt grateful for the honor
and respect shown her, and made many other
excellent remarks, after which the time was
taken up with songs, recitations and remarks
from several of the teachers of the R. S. and
others present.  After spending several hours
very pleasantly, all returned to their homes,
feeling it would be a day long to be remem-
bered.
	S. A. FORBUSH, Ass't Secretary.


Patents have been granted to women, during
the week ending July 13, 1886, as follows:
     Mary E. Cole, Letts, Iowa, Sash-fastener.
     Sophia M. Fein, Cincinnatti, O., Doormat.
     Lizzie Hopkinson, Frankfort, Ind., Com-
bined embroidery-frame, easel, work-table and
desk.
     Lavenia D. Jones, Lafayette, Ind., Steam-
cooking utensil.
     Maria R. McClintock, Abbyville, Va., Coin-
holder.
     Katy Rumetsch, San Francisco, Cal., Key-
hole guard.
     Ellen D. Starr, Chittenango, N. Y, Ap-
pliance for setting writing copies.
     Isabella Yonart, Troy, O., Pastry board.


