EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	In reading the petition of Mrs. Angie F.
Newman, lately presented to the Honorable
Senate and House of Representatives in Con-
gress assembled, I was much struck with the
inaccuracy and falsehoods of which it is com-
posed; and it is a matter of astonishment to me
that a lady with the opportunities and intelli-
gence of Mrs. Newman should know so little
of  a subject upon which she professes herself
to be posted. Being myself one of the two
thousand who assembled in mass meeting to
protest against the invasion of our dearest and 
most sacred rights—I felt that it was eminently
proper that we should meet and protest; and 
whenever an effort is being made to rob us of 
that which is dearer than life—our liberty—
we will ever be found emphatically protesting
against such injustice.
	Mrs. Newman says, "Having a definite per-
sonal knowledge"—I am glad she added "of 
the Gentile sentiment touching this question"—
because had she made these assertions of herself
it would have been something worse than igno-
rance.
	Mrs. Newman claims to be a close observer
of the effect of female suffrage in Utah, yet
she admits that Gentile women rarely vote,
and it is from them she obtains her informa-
tion. Strange that they should affect to des-
pise the right of FRANCHISE, when so many
noble women are laboring so hard to attain it.
And because they do not choose to make use
of the ballot, when they have it to right their
wrongs, if they have any, is that any reason
why our rights should be taken away? Sup-
posing a party of men should refuse or neglect
to vote because some one else had the privilege,
would it be of any use for them to ask for 
legislation to take away the rights of others
who made a better use of it? I think not.
They would only be laughed at for their pains,
if not considered fit subjects for a lunatic
asylum, especially if they were found guilty of 
such consumnate nonsense as is to be found in
the petition of Mrs. Angie F. Newman grave-

[Column 2]
ly presented by Mr. Edmunds to the Honor-
able Senate and House of Representatives.
We are at the defiance of the world to prove
that the genealogies of the dead, the unborn
and the deceased have ever been represented
at the ballot box. It is simply too absurd for
people with good sense to pay any attention to.
We should much like to know,if any one can tell
us, when these women voted two or three times,
to which Mrs. Stenhouse refers and Mrs. New-
man quotes, that the solitary man was driving
in the wagon, and what their names were, man,
women, wagon and all. Creatures of the im-
aginatiou.
	I also am a close observer of the effect of
woman suffrage in Utah, and I positively affirm
that I have never known an instance of the
kind to take place; we have no occasion to re-
sort to trickery, we have always been the peo-
ple. Then those mules she speaks of, when
were they christened, and who performed the
ceremony? We do not believe in christening.
It must have been a curious sight to see them
vote; I wonder how they managed it. I have
 read of Balaam's ass speaking with a man's 
voice, but to see an educated mule vote would
be enough to consign the ass to the oblivion he
deserves. Surely the great law makers of our
beloved country are too wise to attach any im-
portance to such BOSH! Having exercised the
right of franchise for the last fifteen years, I
am in a situation to speak from personal knowl-
edge; I have voted for whom I pleased, and no
one has ever interfered with my rights in this
matter. It is a well known fact that the ballot
in Utah is secret, and there is no way to pre-
vent anyone voting as she chooses. Who ever
asserts the contrary makes a statement that is
not true. Dear to the heart of the women of
Utah is the right of suffrage, a right they will
ever use for the good of man and for the ele-
vation of our sister woman. Let Mrs. New-
man get all the appropriations from Congress
she can; let her spend her money where she
will; nobody will dispute her right to do so,
but let her learn to practice the grace of
charity, and respect the rights of others, for
she must know for "all these things she will be
brought to judgement."
