THREAD?
	CERTAINLY, one of the very commonest
of necessities of human invention, as well
as one of the two oldest, since our mother
Eve must have used some sort of thread to
sew the strings on her fig leaf apron. Of
all the different kinds of thread, none ap-
peal more strongly to our imagination and
interest than the “Thread of Destiny.”—
The ancient Romans and Greeks imagined
a grave maiden called Clotho, spun from
her distaff the destiny of man, and as she
spun, one of her sisters, Lachesis, worked
out the events wh[-]ch were in store, and
Atrops, the other sister, cut the thread at
the point when death was to occur. There
are many curious stories and legends about
thread among them the one of “A St.
Thomas Thread.” The tale is that St.
Thomas planted Christianity in China and
then returned to Malabar; here he saw a
huge timber floating on the sea near the
coast, the King endeavoring with a force
of men and elephants to haul it ashore, but
it would not stir. St. Thomas desired
leave to build a church with it, and his re-
quest being granted he dragged it easily
ashore with a piece of pack thread.
	You remember the story of the Greek
maiden Arachire, who was so vain of her
skill with the needle and thread that she
defied Minerva to contest and so excited the
ire of the goddess that she changed her into
a spider, that she and her posterity might
spin thread forever.
	The first thread of which we have any
record, was that from which the first piece
of manufactured cloth was produced on the
surface of this Terrestial globe by an ingen-
ious artisan of “Nodville,” and whose
name (as his Holiness Pope Alexander
tells us) was Arkite Ghiden Glselen; it
was akin to what we call matting and was
produced of thread made of leaf stems and
fibers. The next obvious improvement in
thread was the twisting of the peel of rush-
es into fine strings, by which means supe-
rior textures were produced, but this was
not till after the death of Methuselah.
Threads from the first were used to weave
matting on a flexible sort of cloth, where-
with our ancestors covered their nakedness
and consequently after the first discovery
numerous experiments were made with the
fibres of different plants, among them,
hemp and flax, to produce as fine filaments
as possible; and I can’t help thinking that
the first idea of spinning with the distaff
was taken from the much abused little
spider, and no doubt exists in my mind, as
to Eve having taken lessons in sewing
from the deft little tailor bird. Gilroy says,
“We are creditably informed, that the de-
cendants of our first parents obtained the
knowledge of spinning flax into thread, by
supernatural agency.”
	Thread of gold, silver, silk, flax, wood
and cotton were known to the ancients, as
far back as we have any authentic history.
In the Bible we have constant allusions to
embroidery and raiment of fine needle work
and the embroidery of Pomegrantes of
purple and blue and scarlet, around the

[Column 2]
hem thereof, of the High Priests robe.
The Grecian ladies were celebrated in very
early times for their skill in embroidery and
needlework, necessitating certainly the use
of various threads. On the Tombs and
Sarcophagi of the Egyptians are depicted
on the outer tunics and robes of State, edg-
ings of crotchet in gold, silver and divers
colors of thread. The Romans were fami-
liar with gold thread work, and even, as
the discovery of gold needles in the Scan-
dinavian Tumuli can testify, the love of
ornamentation by thread work was known
to exist among less civilized nations of
antiquity. The custom of knightly families
to send out their daughters to the castles of
their Suzerian Lords, to be taught the art
of spinning and embroidery was common in
Europe and continued until the middle of
the 18th Century.
	In the Public Record Office, Eng., there
is a charge of 8 shillings for the silk thread
bought for embroidery work for Margaret,
daughter of Edward 1st, and another entry
for 4 oz. of gold thread.
	The manufacture of thread is a branch of
trade so intimately connected with that of
all ordinary textile fabrics, that you must
pardon me if I lose at any time the thread
of my discourse, and encroach on topics
nearly allied to my own.
	The manufacture of cotton thread is the
outstanding feature of the industries of
Paisley, and is carried forward on a great
scale at Glasgow. From Paisley alone,
there is probably sent out a greater weight
and length of sewing thread, than from all
the other factories of Great Britain com-
bined.
	The manufacture of cotton thread thro’
the universal introduction of sewing ma-
chines, which generally carry double
threads, has greatly increased within the
last 30 or 40 years. The process of thread
making is chiefly carried on by Twisters,
who secure the spun cotton from the fac-
tories; and it is considered in our time an al-
together separate business from that of
spinning. The manufacture of sewing
cotton is, therefore, generally understood
as confined to the twisting or doubling of
yarn previously obtained from the spinner.
When the yarn is received it is tested by
being reeled from the cops (or spindles) and
having a certain length of hank weighed;
this is called sizing. The next process
is winding it on bobbins 2 or 3 ply, as re-
quired; these bobbins are taken to the
twisting frame and twisted, first 2 ply, then
this is doubled or trebled for 4 or 6 cord,
as required. Each yarn has it own twist,
that is, the number of twists it gets per inch.
When finished the thread is taken from the
twisting frames, and according to the size so
much is wound upon a large bobbin, from
which it is reeled into hanks for bleaching
and dying. After bleaching, it is given
out in bundles to the hank winders, who
wind it on large bobbins, and in turn is
hauded to the spooler who fills the spool
with a certain length of thread, 100 200
300 yds. and upwards, the thread passing
through a gas flame on its way from
machine to spool, to remove the hanging


