[Column 1]
gan to tell the story. Complaints reached
the principal and the matter had to be look-
ed into.
	The principal was a rather severe man
though a perfect gentleman and he had
noted the change in his assistant before any
one had complained but he had attributed
it to home sickness brought on by the ap-
proach of vacation, though he was deeply
interested in keeping up the good standard
the school had made, but now it became his
duty to speak to Miss Hartwell quite
plainly of the seeming neglect and the poor
work her pupils were doing.
	All girls like Ellen Hartwell, beautiful,
vain, ambitious and selfish, also possess a
great deal of pride and hauteur and to be
censured for lack of interest in her work
just at this most anxious time was beyond
endurance.
	“Miss Hartwell,” her superior
said, “I am very sorry that I have to
speak to you on this subject but the parents
of your pupils are not at all satisfied with
the work their children are doing; they
claim you have no order in the school room,
and the children take no interest whatever
in their work and are not progressing at all.
I should not have noticed these complaints
just at this time had I not myself discover-
ed something wrong in your school room,
and unless there is a radical change before
the end of the summer the trustees will
certainly supply your place with a more
efficient teacher.”
	What a speech for a conscience strick-
en, anxious girl to hear! At first
she blushed scarlet, then turned death-
ly white as though she should faint,
then a great lump rose in her throat and
she knew she was about to cry, but the
thought of such a humiliation caused her
to muster all her pride to her assistance
and after a few moments painful silence
during which time she swallowed the lump
in her throat, brushed the tears from her
eyes and tried to call back some color to
her face, she slowly and quietly asked:
	“How long, Mr. Barton have I seemed to
give such poor satisfaction?”
	“I have heard no complaint nor seen any-
thing wrong with your school work, Miss
Hartwell, until recently, within the last
two weeks perhaps.”
	“Thank you,” was all she said and
turning slowly she was leaving the room
without either explanation or promise,
when the principal called her back, for
though he had noticed her fondness for
society and pretty extravagances, and had
wondered sometimes if she only had herself
to think of, he had always admired her
punctuality and conscientious school work,
for to her credit Ellen had striven to earn
her money by good, faithful work. She
had said it is such a pleasure to have means
and be able to enjoy it, and her fault had
been she had enjoyed too freely.
	“Miss Hartwell you must consider this
moment well and take no rash step; I
presume you have to earn your living or
else you would not be away from home
teaching, and remember should you be
dismissed from the public school for incom-
petentcy or lack of interest it would be very
hard for you to get another situation. A
past record is always required before engag-
ing a teacher and I would strongly advise
you to lose no time in disproving any state-
ment made against you, by more earnest,
diligent work than you have ever done be-
fore. Give up for the present at least,

[Column 2]
some of the amusements and pastimes in
which you indulge, associate more with
children, call on their parents and be more
particular about their deportment and study
while in school. I do not wish to infer so
much neglect of these duties, but this is
a most serious matter with you, and I
would like to see you look at it in that way;
conquer your pride and submit humbly to
the duty of a teacher.”
	She could stand no more; at first she
broke out in disgust. How she hated those
tattling quarreling children who had to be
humored and coaxed and persuaded this
way and that, and still more how she hated
those abominable parents, who could scarce-
ly endure their own children’s voice for the
short afternoon but expected a teacher to
take a whole room full of them and love
them and adore them and put up with all
their impudence and ignorance and be per-
fectly delighted to have the chance; call on
them! indeed she would do no such thing;
and those horrible trustees always did make
her blood turn cold and her heart stop
beating, even when she saw them ap-
proaching for they were always looking for
flaws and trying to show their own supe-
rior knowledge. She hated the sight of
them all, the trustees, the parents, the
children, the school rooms, the books; it
was all a perfect nightmare. Having
relieved herself thus far by this unwise,
hysterical speech she burst into a flood of
tears; she knew she had done a very fool-
ish thing and all her beauty, wit and pride
would have to be humbled now to the very
dust if she hoped for any favor from Mr.
Barton or had any desire to retain her posi-
tion, and this she certainly did hope, for
what in the world would she do if she lost
it and how in the world could she ever face
her darling parents and her home friends
or indeed her new made city friends either;
oh why was she so weak and foolish! As
her weeping grew less noticeable Mr. Bar-
ton said “I am extremely sorry Miss
Hartwell you look upon your position in so
light a manner and though I am perfectly
aware of the trials of teaching I can scarce-
ly sympathize with your feelings; you
should never have chosen such a profession
if you did not love it. A teacher must en-
joy his work or he can never make a suc-
cess of it. My dinner will be waiting and
if you have sufficiently recovered I think
we had better close this painful interview.”
	There was no help for it now she had to
go, even had she ever so many confessions
to make she could’nt keep a man any long-
er when he said his dinner was waiting, oh
how she hated the thought of eating but
trust a man to turn all sentiment, all pity
everything aside if the thought of dinner
enter his head and for once she was wise
enough to be quiet and withdraw. With
a quiet good evening, they separated, he to
his home and a well prepared dinner, with
a mind filled with the idea he had been
most thoughtful and careful of her feelings,
and yet perfectly just to her; and she—it
would be difficult to tell the state her mind
was in; she knew he had been just, and
she foolish and yet she blamed him, that
he did not consider her circumstances.
Poor unreasonable soul, how could he do
that when he did not know them. As she
became calmer, with her walk home in the
open air, she began to consider this fact
and also the real seriousness of her position
and began to study some way out of her
dilemma. If this school trouble had not

[Column 3]
happened she might have asked for a small
advance of her wages but now of course
that was wholly out of the question, per-
haps her position too was gone. Oh, what
could she do! borrow she would not, even
if some girl friend would be willing, it
would place her in such a peculiar light
with them; after all she had only spent
her own money, and goodness knows, she
had worked hard enough for it. She would
have to write home that she could not come
and send them a few trifles and then, when
the summer vacation came she would have
something nice to bring them. Her posi-
tion she determined to keep, no matter
what it cost her pride she would write to
Mr. Barton a note, apologize and tell him
about her anxiety, her loss of sleep and the
whole truth, and promise to do differently;
thus she condoled with herself and planned
as she walked along and her thoughts
grew more hopeful, her heart grew lighter
so by the time she had reached her board-
ing house all traces of her secret disturbance
had disappeared, only she was a trifle pale.
	“Why are you so late Miss Nellie? A
messenger boy has been here with a note
for you, and he has waited a very long
time for an answer.”
	The note was an invitation to an opera
that evening and she had so wanted to go,
but could she accept under the circum-
stance, she hastily ascended to her room,
examined her wardrobe and saw she must
certainly have new gloves, oh well she
might as well begin now to make her
sacrifices. She had on that homeward
walk seen all to plainly how much had
been sacrificed for her and though no ac-
count had been kept, she fully realized that
her debt was a great one and would take
her a very long time to repay. So she 
wrote a very short note declining the invita-
tion, making the excuse that she was
suffering from head ache which was indeed
true and heart ache as well, for she was
greatly touched. Before going again down
stairs she wrote a very courteous note to
Mr. Barton, in which she confessed her ex-
travagance and how she had over-strained
her nerves trying to write her story, in fact
she told him her whole story, as an excuse
for her poor school work and closed with a
neat, little apology to him for her behavior
that afternoon. The landlady’s boy was
dispatched with the note and it reached
Mr. Barton just as he had finished a very
satisfactory dinner finding him in the
best of spirits. A very fortunate time for
Miss Hartwell. If ever one wants a favor
from a man, try to ask it at such a time, it
will go down awfully well with a good
dinner. Mr. Barton’s wife was a very
kind hearted, motherly woman and though
she had scarcely liked this pretty assistant
of her husband’s, thinking her rather frivo-
lous, still this simple note, laying bare the
girl’s follies, desires, failures and hopes
touched the tender chords of her kind heart
and won her over completely. She insisted
on her husband taking her over to see Miss
Hartwell that very night and talk over her
affairs. Ellen was a little surprised, not to
say annoyed when Mr. and Mrs. Barton
sent up their cards and desired a few mo-
ments conversation with her, she had hoped 
after her note and her own battle with her-
self to have a quiet evening and not to
think of the ordeal she had passed, but she
went into the sitting room quite prepared
for a lecture or two on morality, selfishness
and frivolity or some such subject, with


