AMONG THE PINES.

	Up among the pines in the Coeur d’
Alenes is a good place to rusticate if one is
weary and needs repose; “the forest
primeval” is brought to mind forcibly in
that land of woods and solitude. Journey-
ing through the mountains in the beautiful
Autumn months when the bright colors
begin to show wherever the frost has
touched the leaves, and the great pines
that never change but are ever green sigh
and moan in the soft breeze of September,
one cannot help growing sentimental, how-
ever practical one may otherwise be. It is
certainly a beautiful country as far as scen-
ery can make it picturesque, and there are
many romantic incidents to help one’s fer-
tile imagination if one hears the tales of the
miners, the mountaineers and the “old
stagers.”
	The mountains of pine and balsam
beautiful as they are, do not form the only
attraction by any means, the outside is not
the most desirable except to the poet or
enthusiast, it is the shining metal that runs
in veins or is deposited in little pockets far
below the outer surface that appears so
desirous to the eye of the traveler; deep in the
recesses of these vast fastnesses the precious
ore lies buried that is only obtained by
patient toil of the pick, the shovel, and the
brawn and sinew of man. All through
these grand old hills one sees here and
there, the sure signs of the miner seeking
the hidden treasure of which men are so
greedy in this day and age, and which
treasure has been brought to the surface,
and to the mint and the market, by those
hardy sons of toil; some have amassed for-
tunes there, and many more have sunk
their all, little or much, as the case might
be in these holes in the hills. Nevertheless
it is a wonderful country and has a strange
history, very much of it yet unwritten.
There is much in it delightful and also
pathetic, much that is rude and wild and
“uncanny” perchance, but if one were in-
clined to the weird and sensational there is
the material with which to weave fiction if
one had sufficient originality of style suit-
able to the theme. Indeed it is tempting
to one given to a vivid imagination to
undertake the task. A man like Rudyard
Kipling with his genius and power, going
into that locality might add vast riches to
his stock in trade, by visiting the Coeur d’
Alenes and seeing and hearing the variety

[Column 2]
of incidents, experiences and explorations
that have transpired, and wrought their
effects upon the country, its people and its
conditions.
	The grand old woods, the clear running
water, the lovely lakes—all these are
picturesque and charming, and together
with the mining and the people engaged in
the occupation of delving for the “raw
material,” or putting up machinery or
other necessaries, and bringing supplies of
all kinds to keep the whole in motion, the
peculiar methods resorted to for amuse-
ment and recreation while all is crude and
hard and as it were desolate, isolated from
all great cities of commerce and manufac-
tures, few resources and little time to spend
upon culture of mind or manners, methods
and habits of civilization, lonely, yet long-
ing for some change of excitement, catch-
ing at the first new thing that comes when
some new arrival makes an appearance,
these old-time, early miners, one can
scarcely call them settlers, present a phase
of character even a type entirely different
to the men who have since come among
them. They have queer notions of their
own, a bond of fellowship, if one may be
allowed the expression, strong and endur-
ing; many of these miners have ended their
lives in their lonely log cabin in the hills
and are buried under the pines, and the
sighing and moaning of these kings of the
forest are the only requiem chanted over
their graves. Sad to think that no one
mourns, or it may be having waited for
tidings when none came, have lost all heart
while the poor wanderer far from his home
and loved ones dies neglected and alone.


