REBECCA M. WILLIAMS.
	SISTER REBECCA MANNING WILLIAMS was
born in Norwich, Norfork, England, April 22,
1858, and emigrated to Utah in her thirteenth
year in company with her mother and brother
Henry. Settled first in the Nineteenth ward in
this city and afterwards moved into the Four-
teenth and finally settled in the Twentieth,
where she met with and was married to, Joseph
S. Williams in 1876. Their’s was one of the very
few ideal marriages for they became not only
“one flesh” but one spirit, seeing eye to eye in all
the important things of life. She was emphatic-
ally a “help meet for him” to whom the Lord had
given her.
	The young couple moved their home in the
eastern part of the ward so that when the divi-
sion was made they were found to be in the 21st
ward where she preserved the even tenor of her
life until Saturday, Sep. 12th, when she died sud-
denly after only a few hours illness.
	She was remarkable for the gravity and nobil-
ty of her character; life with her was “real,” it
was earnest, it was a means to the end which she
never lost sight of, hence she improved the time
to the benefit, as far as possible, of her fellow
beings even at a personal sacrifice. The writer
recalls having seen her more than once, a young
mother with a babe on her lap leading the sing-
ing for the Young Ladies Association and taking
the minutes, for she was their secretary, and so
efficiently did she discharge her duty that the
Association thought they could not possibly de-
spense with her services; but as her family in-
creased in number she retired into the home cir-
cle and devoted herself exclusively to that great-
est and most sacred of all woman’s duties, the
raising of her children; still for some time she
continued a member of the ward choir.
	She was the mother of ten children, five boys
and five girls, seven of whom survive her. Her
eldest son Joseph is appointed to go on a mission-
shortly, and her last earthly duty was the prepar-

[Column 2]
ation for his departure. We earnestly pray that
the memory of her will ever remain green in his
heart, a talisman against all temptation. We also
pray the Healer of all wounded hearts will make
the husband, children and relatives His especial
care.
								CON.
DIeD—In Salt Lake City, September 4th, 1896,
at 6 a. m , after a severe and lingering illness,
Alice Daniels Weinel. Alice Daniels was born
January 16th, 1823, at Manchester Eng. She was
the daughter of Ephriam Daniels and Elizabeth
Salthouse. Having been baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints early
in the year 1841, in the same year she emigrated
to America. Landing in New Orleans she pro-
ceeded directly to Nauvoo, at that time the
gathering place of the followers of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	One can well imagine that faith and fortitude
were required to enable a young girl unacquaint-
ed with the ways of the world, having scarcely
been outside her native town, to leave home and
friends and travel on sea and land to cast her lot
with a despised and persecuted people; but she
had received a testimony of the truth of the Gos-
pel she had embraced, and went forth undaunted
and fearless.
	After remaining at Nauvoo for a season she
went to Quincy where she obtained employment
at her trade as a milliner. Here she became ac-
quainted with her husband, the late John Weinel,
to whom she was married in the year 1842.
	After the death of the Prophet they removed to
Mt. Pisgah, Iowa, and in the year 1849 followed
the Pioneers to Salt Lake Valley and soon after
located in the 14th Ward Salt Lake City, where
they have since resided.
	In the year 1860 the writer of this brief
sketch first became acquainted with Sister
Weinel, and from that time till her death was an
intimate friend. Many pleasant and profitable
hours have been spent in her company, listening
to her reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph, and
of the suffering and experiences of the Saints,
their exodus from Nauvoo and their early trials
and privations in this new and forbidding
country. Through all these trying times she was
staunch to her religion for she knew it was of
God, lived its principles and endeavored to ex-
emplify them in her daily life.
	Sister Weinel was a woman of great strength of
character intellectual and refined. She never
had the honor to be a mother and for many years
this was a very severe trial to her. Brother and
Sister Weinel entered into the order of plural
marriage in the early days in the valley, and for
all the sacrifices she had made in accepting this
principle, she was amply rewarded by the devoted
attention and nursing bestowed by the sister
wife during her long sickness which covered a
period of nearly five years.
	Thus one by one those who personally knew
the Prophet Joseph are passing to the other side,
but they leave with us their earnest testimony
that he was a man of God, and their faith in the
ultimate triumph of the glorious work he was
sent to establish. May her friends who remain
be as staunch and true as was our departed sister,
that they may be privileged to renew their friend-
ship with her and all loved ones gone before.
								E. S. T.


