LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	WE now crossed over the river,
passing the home of Horace and had a view
of the cascades and falls, and of the plain
and hills and Rome, the Dome of St. Peter
above everything else, and the sun was just
over it so the effect was fine; then to Ha-
drian’s Villa, it covered a square mile, dates
from the later years of this far-traveled
Emperor. ’Tis said when he saw in any
country anything splendid he returned and
added one like it to this Palace; it was a
marvel of architecture and landscape
gardening. From the 16th Century to the
present day the ruins furnished works of
art, including many of the principal
treasures of the Vatican, and the ruins still
retain traces of mosaic and beautiful colored
marble, inlaying one marble with another,
and glass molded in ornamental relief,
while some of the magnificent grounds re-
main as they were. From here he could
look at Rome and the magnificent land-
scape he used to drive out in his chariot
with his slaves running at the horses heads,
and if one fell dead they passed on. He
built the Villa, paying his workmen with
the lash if they fainted under their burdens.
Do you wonder God buried it all? We
came home just at sunset when he went
down in a bank of gold; soon purple clouds
fringed the gold; it made me think of the
New Jerusalem where the walls are all
jasper and gold, and as the beautiful scene
receded from my view, I felt regret that the
day was ended. At night as the moon was
just right, I drove to the Colosseum and
Forum; there were no ugly shadows, the
Arches, Colosseum and Palaces were intox-
catingly, divinely beautiful. The driver
said “Ladies you don’t know how beauti-
ful Rome is until you see it by moonlight.”
	Tuesday, 26. Taking a last look at the
obelisk brought from Egypt and set up in
honor of Apollo by Augustus, then a drive
on the Pincian Hill, adorned with rostral
columns, statues, marble bas-reliefs, inter-
spersed with cypresses and pines.
	A winding road lined with memosas and
other flowering shrubs leads to the upper
platform now laid out in public drives and
gardens, but till twenty years ago a desert-
ed waste where the ghost of Nero was be-
lieved to wander in the middle ages. The
Eternal City is seen spread at our feet and
beyond it the wide spreading Campagna,
till a silver line marks the sea melting into
the horizon beyond Ostia. Then the Arch-
es which record important historical events;
Arch of Titus, the destruction of Jerusalem
the Jews loathe it; ’tis said to this day
no Jew has passed through it; Arch of
Septimius Severus, the victory over the
Parthians; that of Constantine, the end of
the tyrannical reign of Maxentius.
	The rest of the day was devoted to shop-
ping and packing trunks.

[Column 2]
	Wednesday, Nov. 27. Left at an early
hour for Naples 161 miles southeast from
Rome. Upon leaving the station we took
a regretful look at the enormous Dome of
St. Peter then made ourselves comfortable
for the day. As we traveled along I re-
marked to our guide, “We would call
those mountains, hills in America, what do
you call mountains?” these are 8,000 ft.
high; they did not seem so. The Appen-
nines traverse Italy in its whole length
from north to south dividing it nearly
equally; their highest point is Mount Car-
no, 9,521 feet above sea level; they are not
peaked but smooth and undulating their
bare rocks appearing only at their highest
point. The vegetation covers them up to
3,000 ft., on the lower belts the olive, palm,
citron and orange grow, which we saw on
the tops of some old mountains. We pass-
ed Caserta not far from Naples, noted for
its royal palaces built in 1752 by Charles
III, an immense pile with extensive gardens
called the Versailles of Naples. Excepting
a few Monastaries nothing of special interest
until the volcano of Vesuvius; it was
night and the view unsurpassed. A few
moments brought us to Naples the "City
of Sirens.”
	Arriving at Hotel Royal des Etrangers,
my bedroom was beautifully situated, the
evening was warm, I stood at the open
window and looked out upon the quay; the
beautiful Bay and beyond to the Promon-
tory then to the street below where soldiers
were marching, listening to their music,
thought it delightful to be here. The
city has a magnificent situation, rising like
an amphitheatre from the shore.
	On the west is the Castle of St. Elmo
once of immense strength, which covers
the hill of St. Erosmo. On the seaside are
the fortresses of Castle Nuovo often com-
pared to the Tower of London, and adorned
with a triumphal arch in honor of Alfonso
of Aragon, 1442. The Castle dell Ovo
with its traditions about Virgil probably
built by Norman Wm. I. 1150.
	The city is divided into the old and the
new town by the ridge extending from the
palace of Capodimonte to the sea, dividing
the city into a double crescent. Many of
the streets are crooked, narrow and steep;
the principal Via Roma (formerly Toledo)
winds along the curving shore of the Bay
and is the fashionable promenade of the
city and commands fine views; the lower
part of the street showed us the habits and
life of the lower classes. Some pictures
were striking and unlike anything I ever
saw except Indian scenes in early days.
The beggars annoy one so persistently and
seem happy; along the shore the fishermen
sell you the sea-horse for luck, and one
told me he would eat a devil fish for a sue,
a hidous looking fish they seem fond of.
I replied nothing would induce me to look
at him and he seemed to understand. Of
the large theatres we saw none, the Prof.
told us the San Carlo was the largest and
most elegant. The National Museum is one
of the most interesting and largest in the
world and contains many treasures from
Pompeii and the best bronzes found at Her-
culaneum. The aquarium is most inter-
esting containing a complete collection of
sea fishes. The church domes glitter with
gilded and colored tiles, the Cathedral San
Gennaro contains the priceless treasures of
the Saints and the small phials said to con-
tain the blood of St. Gennaro, which is be-
lieved to liquify twice every year. Naples


