RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE regular quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society convened
in the Assembly Hall, September 19, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Meeting
opened by singing "We thank Thee O,
God for a prophet;" prayer by Julia Howe;
continued by singing "Glorious things of
Thee are spoken." Roll called, minutes of
morning session of the previous conference
read and approved. Statistical and finan-
cial reports read, 26 wards having reported
and 24 not reported. The names of those
wards failing to report were read. 
	President Horne said the failure
of these wards to send in their reports makes one
sorry and angry, for the Salt Lake Stake is
looked upon as a pattern. "It is due to
me and all those that labor with me, to be
able to give a full representation of our
labors at the Stake Conference. I hope


this will be remembered the next, time re-
ports are due. We should now be think-
ing of the poor during the coming winter.
We have been taught what is required of
us, shall we not now be faithful? I hope I
shall not have to complain again about the
reports, I want all those who have not
sent them in, to send them in at once, so
that our report will be better for the Gener-
al Conference.” Prayed the spirit of the
Lord to rest upon the sisters, that they
might have wisdom to guide them in the
performance of all their duties.
The 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 17, 18, and 19 wards gave verbal
reports of a very encouraging nature.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock p.
m. by singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Bishop Allen.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Meeting commenced by singing “ Where
the voice of friendship’s heard;” prayer
by Sister Webb; continued by singing
“Do what is right.” Minutes of previous
afternoon session read and approved.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was pleased to
be at this conference. “We should observe
every law that will bring us back into the
presence of our Father. Greet each other
kindly, leave our sorrows behind and en-
courage each other to perform every duty
which comes before us in life as true
women.
	Rachel Grant said “I meditate great a deal
as I cannot hear. We have trials that we
may be benefited. President Young once
said if we never have another, we have had
enough to take us straight into the Celes-
tial kingdom, we should prepare ourselves
for the great things which await the faith-
ful.”
	Counselor Jane S. Richards said through
the blessing of the Lord  we are here today.
This Society was organized by inspiration.
There is much for us to learn, we all want
to do that which we came here to do from
our patriarchal blessings we learn that our
work was planned before we came here, in
these meetings we receive the spiritual food
we need, and receive strength from our
Father. We have been told the day would
come when we would try each other more
than we had ever been tried—therefore “do
good to each other and be comforted.”
	Counselor Annie Hyde made some inter-
esting remarks.
	President Zina D. H. Young said our
Prophet organized this Society according
to the Holy Priesthood, and it is worth our
while to come together to testify of these
things. “ How I wish these benches were
full! I feel that the daughters of Zion are
holy in the sight of the Lord, and pray that
He will bless you all.”
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore her
testimony as did a number of sisters.
	Reports were received from the 21st,
22nd, 23rd, wards, Center ward and Can-
non ward.
	Sister Emily S. Richards made a few re-
marks. President Horne again reminded the
sisters to bring their reports, and felt to
bless all who were present. Meeting closed
by singing “ ’Mid scenes of confusion.”
Benediction by President Zina D. H.
Young.
		L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


