[Column 1]
perhaps a condescending forgiveness. She
felt equal to anything, for a listless, dulness
had come over her and she was resigned to
suffer anything. To her surprise, Mrs.
Barton met her at the door, put her arms
gently around her and kissed her tenderly
on the forehead. She had never met the
girl before but her heart had gone out to
her and she was one of those few women,
who can love and protect and aid another
woman when the mind is distressed, with-
out words, simply by the tender touch of
sympathy.
	“My dear girl,” she said “we want you
to come home with us and spend this last
week before your vacation, Mr. Barton in-
tended mentioning it before, but men are
so forgetful.”
	Now to tell the truth, Mr. Barton had no
idea what his wife had intended to do, and
he was as much surprised as Nelly at the
invitation, but he saw in an instant how
such an arrangement would benefit her, she
would save a week’s board and as the guest
of her principal would probably stand in a
better light concerning her school work.
She was herself too surprised by the invita-
tion to notice how slow Mr. Barton was to
second it, nor could she at first see any ad-
vantage it might bring her. In fact in her
present state of mind she felt she must de-
cline, but Mrs. Barton refused to take
no, for an answer and was so cordial and
motherly with it all, that Nelly finally con-
sented. The week was very busy for Ellen
Hartwell; she kept her promise and work-
ed incessantly to regain favor with the
school children, their parents and the board.
In that she succeeded admirably al-
though at times it seemed that the noise of
the school room would drive her wild, still
she did not complain or show her annoy-
ance, and her past neglect was soon for-
gotten. On the fifteenth of December, she
received a note from the newspaper and her
hand trembled so with fear and hope com-
bined that she could not open it. Mrs.
Barton knew the secret about the story and
had never doubted that Ellen Hartwell
would get the prize, so with a steady hand
and much assurance she opened the envel-
ope and discovered a check for ten dollars
and the brief notice, “Miss Ellen Hartwell,
your story signed Nelly received second
prize, and will be published after the holi-
days.’’ After all what did she expect, she
was disappointed yet she had hardly dared
to hope this much, at any rate her trip
home could now be taken and though she
could not do as much for them as she had
hoped, and knew her parents expected, still
with Mrs. Barton’s good judgment and keen
bargaining she was able to do considerable
and take home very useful and pretty pre-
sents. The baby’s sled she had set her
heart on and that was the only toy she
bought, other gifts were useful. Her
friends in the city she was forced to slight,
though they remembered her very prettily.
Had it not been for Mrs. Barton’s protec-
tion she might have been tempted to do
less for her loved ones and more for her
newer friends, but that good lady was the
friend in need, Oh, would that all foolish
girls, when their moment of trial comes,
might fall into such kind and wise care as
Ellen Hartwell did. Her little visit home
was most happy and though her sisters
thought she had been rather lavish on her-
self and done little for them, still they were
very proud of her and were extremely
sorry when she had to return to the city.
The father it was, who saw that his

[Column 2]
daughter had indulged herself and forgot-
ten the great sacrifices that had been made
for her, and he looked with sorrow upon
his girls at home as he realized the partial-
ity that had been shown the oldest girl.
The night before Ellen’s return he took
occasion to tell her of his disappointment.
He talked plainly and firmly, yet not un-
kindly of how the mother and the other
girls had worked and toiled on the farm
with scarcely the comforts of life, while
she had had no burdens and had wanted
nothing. The mother protested for she
was so proud of her oldest daughter, that
she was willing to make any sacrifice but
the father saw the wrong to the others and
to Nelly as well for it had tended to make
her more selfish. She acknowledged, to
her father the right of his censure and re-
warded him by a confession of her trials
just before coming home and told them
then, for the first time about her story.
She had learned a hard lesson but she be-
lieved a good one, and she was fully deter-
mined to deny herself and save and help
her family hereafter. This she did accom-
plish in different ways, her salary she was
able to save almost entirely for them, for
her first success with literary work prompt-
ed her to continue it and she was able to
make a little money that way, enough at
any rate for the “extras” she allowed her-
self; they were not so many now as
formerly. She never ceased to be grateful
to Mrs. Barton. Had it not been for her she
could never have gone home that winter
and it was more the sight of the denials
and sacrifices of her family than the talk
she had that determined her course of
saving and care. She fulfilled after all the
expectations of her family and became a
most successful teacher and a writer of no
mean ability.
