[Column 1]
has a number of squares but they are not
beautiful although decorated with obelisks
and fountains, they looked well trodden,
there was no sign “Keep off the grass.”
The Royal Palace at the extremity of the
Via Roma is home like, the young Prince
resides there; it contains old paintings and
many beautiful things, the Royal entrance
is magnificent, the ballroom is handsome;
leading from it on each side are a series of
beautiful rooms where the dancers sit or
promenade. The effect is like that of the
President’s room in the Capital at
Washington, D. C., looking into the mir-
rors the room each side is reflected a score
of times, a most beautiful sight; the theatre
is pretty but does not compare with those
of the Bourbon Princes. The double Balcony
was a dream of delight, with exquisite
views of the Bay and Vesuvius.
	Thursday Nov. 28. A fair day and calm
sea, we determined to visit the wonderful
Blue Grotto or “Grotto of the Nymphs,”
as should the sea be rough it would be im-
possible to enter there. Capri is an island
of Italy in the Mediterranean at the entrance
of the Bay of Naples, and twenty miles
south of the City of Naples.
	We started early and going aboard a
beautiful yacht steamed away to the Island,
the water beautifully calm and blue, the
views superb, the fiery crest of Vesuvius
a striking contrast. Arriving at Capri the
boats were waiting to take us into the
Grotto, two in a boat. As we neared the
entrance the men shouted to us to lie down,
Miss L. was in my boat, we could not sit
up as the opening was not high enough and
is only visible at low tide; the spectacle
was most beautiful. The chamber is 175
ft. by 100 and is 41 ft. high, illuminated
only from the entrance and by the reflection
from the bottom 60 ft. below; the walls ol
the cave, the boats and people were an in-
describably beautiful blue, the water like a
“Lambent sheet of blue flame,” the oars
looked like they were spangled with jewels,
the boys that dive, look when they come
to the surface, as if incased in blue armor.
	Returning to the yacht we now proceeded
to the picturesque village on the Island
where we were to lunch, then drive.
’Twas here Tiberius passed the last ten
years of his life, where he built twelve vil-
las the remains of which are still to be seen,
and the rock “II Salto” from which it is
said the tyrant used to throw his victims.
As we landed the natives urged us to ride
their donkeys up the steep incline to our
hotel on the edge of a hill with remarka-
ble views of the sea and Isles. The lunch
was served on the veranda surrounded with
orange, lemon and cition trees; the natives
sold us beautiful coral. After lunch we
drove about the Island. There were mar-
velous views of villas, garden, and castles
and the imposing volcano which we seem
never to lose sight of. Returning to the
yacht we resumed our voyage to Sorrento
where we were to remain the night. Arriv-
ing at Grand Hotel Victoria situated on the
very margin of the Cliffs we entered what
seemed like a tunnel where the porters were
waiting for us with the information, “The
lilt was out of repair;” so we walked up
this steep incline, entered the gardens and
passed into the hotel. The proprietor met
us and we were shown to our rooms, our
baggage soon followed and we dressed for
Table d' Hote at 7 o’clock.
	This part of Italy has a world-wide repu-
tation for beauty of scene and charm

[Column 2]
of climate. My window commands views
of the Bay and hills. I walked out upon
the terrace, the air was warm and filled
with perfume, the moonlight dazzling, and
down the Cliffs is the swish of the blue
waters; the scene was just heavenly. At
dinner there were other Americans who
came via Gibraltar, will remain two weeks.
The dinner was extremely fine, at dessert,
the waiter passed me something wrapped in
grape leaves “A specialite” of Sorrento,
they were dried grapes of delicious flavor
another “Indian fruit,” which is found to
be cactus fruit. I had eaten the fruit of
the cactus, this was sweeter.
	After dinner we went into the ballroom
where the natives danced and sang for us
dressed in their gorgeous costumes; they
were very graceful. Among the dances by
men and women was the Tarentalla and 
the Zingarella, very beautiful. Their
voices too were fine and they finished the
entertainment with “God save the Queen”
for the English guests, and “Yankee
Doodle” for the Americans; we all rose to
our feet while they sang. The evening
passed delightfully.
						KIM.


