[Column 1]
fibre and render it smooth. The largest
portion of thread made is sold on spools;
after the spools are filled they are labelled
on each end arranged in dozens and grosses,
papered and stringed and finished for the
market. The principal qualities used are
3-4 and 6 cord. A large quantity of
thread is now polished and is known to the
trade as glace; crochet and embroidery
cottons and linens are manufactured by a
somewhat similar process. The spools are
made of birch and ash obtained chiefly from
the Highlands of Scotland. Clarks O. N
T. Jno. Clark Jr., Mile End and J. P. Coats
best six cord come from Scotland, tho’ the
Scotch spindles are only as 1, to 25 of the
English, and their power looms as 1 to 14.
In Great Britain in 1819—the quantity of
cotton thread or yams produced by spinning
was 98,566,200 lb, consumed at home—
80,480,790 lb, exported—18,085,410 lb.
In 1876—57 years later 1,131,056,000 lb
were produced---232,150,000 lb were ex-
ported-- 898,906,000 consumed at home.
The value of capital invested is at least,
£87,000,000 or $435,000,000 which figures
are for Great Britain alone.
	Up to 1791 America possessed no manu-
facture of thread except for domestic pro-
duction and family use, but a cotton mill
was erected that year in the State of Rhode
Island. Today it has become an impor-
tant industry, but the product now exceeds
the demand for home consumption, and
under the influence of protection the very
means we adopt to shut out all other man-
ufactures from our markets, must and does
have the effect of shutting out our own from
the markets of the world.
	But let us leave dry statistics for more
pleasant knowledge. Most of our embroid-
ery cottons, linens and silks come from
France and a few from the Continental
countries. Threads of such gossamer fine-
ness they rival the marvelous filaments
spun by the spiders on our rose bushes,
used for making the finest Brussels lace, is
spun by hand, from flax, in an under-
ground room, as contact with the dry air
causes the thread to break. The spinners
of this “airy tissue” must do the work in
dark rooms where but a single ray of light,
from a narrow aperture is admitted and the
room is so arranged that the faint gleam
falls directly on the work; by the most in-
tense attention, and eye discipline of the
severest kind, they accomplish their pain-
fully difficult task. This fine thread is
worth its weight and more in gold, ranging
in price from $800, $1,500 to $2,500
a pound. A pound is sufficient to manu-
facture lace worth $3,500. No wonder
such workers lose their eyesight in a few
years, or that such fabulous prices must be
paid for such thistle down tissues.
	The finest thread used in this country is
3 cord, used for point lace, 1 sample cotton,
1, linen embroidery cotton loose twist
comes 4 cord, linen 2 cord, hosiery cotton
2 cord, Paris lisle 2 and 3 cord, machine
sewing silk 3 cord, knitting silk 2 cord,
embroidery silk 2 and 3 cord.
	It remained for our generation, so far as
known, to spin the exceeding fine threads
of  glass, so flexible as to supply material for
dress goods, ribbons, ties etc., and table
cloths and napkins. And, so we see,
thread of some sort is the foundation of
modesty, (as we understand it) comfort,
cleanliness, convenience and fashion of the
people of our day. From the coarsest
twine to the finest cobweb thread we are

[Column 2]
indebted to plant life, as even Solomon in
all his glory of purple and fine linen was in-
debted to the humble little lily of the field,
the blue flax blossom!!

	Hoping that the yarn I have spun, may
weave in with the warf and woof woven by
others, without marring the finished web,
I will close like the wearied seamstress, by
cutting off the thread!!!
M. C. WOODS.
