WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	THERE never has been a time when
greater wisdom was needed in the exercise
of the franchise than the present, not only
in our own State but throughout the entire
Republic of the United States. In three of
these states women now have equal suf-
frage and are privileged to vote on all sub-
jects even for presidential electors, and
every woman should vote her conscientious
convictions, because of the great responsi-
bility which the subject involves. Women
who have looked forward and anticipated
taking part in governmental matters have
argued that woman’s influence in politics
would be for the betterment of the con-
ditions of society public and private, and
now that this great privilege has been ac-
corded them, it behooves every individual
woman to stand for the right and know for
herself, all that it is possible to comprehend
of the affairs in which she is called to take
part. All the questions before the people
in this campaign seem to be of vital im-
portance and prove beyond a doubt that the
nation is bordering upon some great change,
which ever party comes into power, all the
forces of activity in the great common-
wealth are keenly alive to the practical and
economic side of the great questions, and
other matters and influences must bide
until these are adjusted, so the great leaders
of both parties are saying. And therefore
the small part women can take in political
affairs is looked upon as insignificant ex-
cept in so far as swelling the number of
voters on one side or the other.
	In consequence of this very feeling per-
haps women have not been as energetic in
coming forward as they might otherwise
have been; they have not taken the pains to

[Column 2]
go into the Primaries as it was their duty
to do and vote there, many of them think-
ing it unnecessary and others afraid of being
taxed with boldness or a lack of womanly
modesty; but when great issues are at
stake such as seem imminent at the present
time one must consider the well being of
the community and the best interest of the
people, more than ill-natured remarks or
sarcasm, or even their own private feelings
in the matter. Men may argue that the
only question now, or the paramount one is
the financial question and women know so 
little of it in a public sense banks and 
banking or capital and labor that their
participation except in casting their bal-
lots is of small consequence, but women
should exercise all their powers for the pro-
motion of peace and tranquillity, and exert
to the utmost a moral and uplifting influ-
ence, looking towards a hopeful outcome of
the problems that seem now so difficult of
a peaceful solution. Instead of love pre-
vailing, or any sort of “unity in diversity”
of opinions or views, dissension and ill-feel-
ing seem much more prevalent. In a great
measure this may be modified by women,
who though somewhat diverse in their
ideas of right and wrong, are naturally-
peacemakers; and certainly this sort of ele-
ment is needed now, the old maxim or tru-
ism of “pouring oil on the troubled
waters,” is certainly essential in the pre-
sent state of political affairs. It is always
commendable and never unwomanly to be
valiant in a good cause, and here is the
opportunity; and it may require a great deal
of moral courage. Do not be misled with 
fear of blame, remember strong and vivid
qualities are always recognized and claim
admiration when the struggle is over, even
by one's opponents. Men claim that wo-
men are too emotional to be of any practical
use in politics, but after all are men always
controlled by parliamentary usages? His-
tory does not so record their acts. One of
our great historians says, “A nation with
whom sentiment is nothing, is on the way
to became no nation at all.” Women may
possibly furnish the sentiment in politics,
and let us hope it will be patriotic senti-
ment at all events. And in face of every-
thing however dark the hour may be, ex-
ercise that faith in God and His promises,
that will sustain the drooping spirits of
those around and inspire them with confi-
dence.
	Women have been given the franchise in
this hour of need undoubtedly for a wise
purpose. The spirit that wrought upon
the great women of the nineteenth century,
to urge the claim of equal suffrage was just
as much from the Almighty, as that which
inspired Washington or Columbus. It was
in the interest of the great cause of freedom
and liberty of conscience; and no power
is ever given to the children of men
without responsibility, therefore in confer-
ing upon women the right of suffrage,
there is a corresponding responsibility,
and women will not be altogether excused
(any more than men) if this duty is not
faithfully and conscientiously fulfilled.
	Would that it were possible to con-
vince by any force of reasoning those
who are so indifferent to the public weal,
and even to the conditions that prevail
around them in their own locality. How
anxious tender mothers are that their
children should grow up pure, how can
they when the whole atmosphere outside
their own homes is filled with impure and


unwholesome germs? No woman’s child
is safe until all are safe! And yet wo-
men sit contentedly down and say, what
need have I to care, my husband repre-
sents me, or my son, or my father. Yet
remember if you go wrong, if your son,
or daughter, or sister is led away, no
one can represent either of them; that
punishment must be met in person. The
law does not permit one’s husband,
father, brother or son to become responsi-
ble for any wrong committed by wife,
daughter, sister or mother.
	The women of Utah have been given
the franchise at an opportune time, they
should see to it that the opportunity is
not thrown away. Those world-famous
words of Nelson at Trafalgar, have been
echoed round the world since that day,
“England expects every man to do his
duty.” At the present time it seems ap-
parent that Utah expects every woman to
do her duty, as well as every man. And
that duty as it appears to the writer, is
not only to cast her ballot but to use her
power of speech whether it be silver or
golden in the direction of “peace and
goodwill,” and the promotion of harmony
instead of friction and a spirit of conten-
tion. These are days of unrest among the
children of men and a power of control, or
strength of self-control is always helpful
in every trying hour, and under all cir-
cumstances. The women of the Latter-
day Saints who have passed through such
trying ordeals, who have been taught such
lessons of humility and self-sacrifice by
the very force of circumstances, above all
women in the world, should be able to
act wisely in the present crisis of affairs
in the new state. And if they are not
recognized as the peers of men, should
show by their fidelity and faith, their
loyalty and love for the principles of
justice and equality that shine so conspicu-
ously in all times of great undertakings or
of telling events, and eventually cannot
fail of recognition. It is incumbent upon
the women of this people to stand by the
right in weal or woe. The future of
which so much has been prophesied de-
mands that there be no failure in the
moral and spiritual courage of the wo-
men of today. “Dare to do right, Dare
to be true,” and trust in God for the re-
sult.


