SIXTIETH WEDDING ANNIVER-
SARY.

	[REFLECTIONS on the sixtieth wedding
anniversary of Patriarch Daniel Tyler and
wife, by their daughter Alice M. Tyler
Tanner.]
	My dear Parents, Relatives and Friends:
Sixty years ago today a young man and
maiden started on a voyage down the
stream of life together. They were then
in the bloom of youth, and life was bright
before them. They had one grand lofty
aim in view, and pressed forward hand in
hand determined to win the reward
promised to those who falter not.
	Together they have shared their joys and
sorrows and when demons have attacked
their little boat and declared they should
not win the prize, they pressed boldly for-
ward and left far behind those who sought
their destruction.
	Again we see them when the young
man was called to fight for his country’s
cause and leave his dear companion’s side.
She took the oars and guided the little ves-
sel safely on its course until the flag of our
country was planted on this dear soil of
ours, where once the rule of Mexican au-
thority had been.
	Again we see them side by side and as
the years go swiftly by, other forms and
faces are welcomed by them on their little
vessel. Three generations now claim a
share in their love and none are repelled,
but a blessing is ever on the lips of this
dear couple who are now feeble and grey,
not only for their own little crew, but for
the many others who seek their blessings
and counsel.


MRS. JOHN MUNROE, of Elbridge, N.
Y., seventy-five years of age, made a quan-
tity of maple syrup with her own hands
from the trees that grew in her yard. She
then invited her friends to come to her
house and partake of it. By this unique
“Suffrage Sociable” she cleared ten dollars
for the Organization Fund.
	MISS CLARA BARTON, has arrived in
New York. She declines to talk much
to interviewers, but is preparing a detailed


report of her work for the National Red
Cross Society and the Relief Committee.
It will be awaited with much interest.
Miss Barton declares, however, that the
Armenians were starving, and that they
must be helped. “The problem which
will confront the civilized world next win-
ter,” Miss Barton said, “is whether it
will permit these poor people to starve to
death. It is one that demands an im-
mediate answer. The world has a respon-
sibility on its hands.”
	MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL attended
the Peace Congress at Buda Pesth last
month.


