ELLEN HARTWELL

	“THERE it is finished and the work is
done if only they accept it even for second;”
thus spoke a young woman as she sealed-
up a neatly arranged package with accom-
panying letter for the mail. Ellen Hartwell
had been teaching her first half year in the
public school and as the holidays approach-
ed and she anticipated a visit to her country
home, she began to realize how much she
would need to purchase the gifts she would
be expected to bring and how little she had
saved from her salary for that purpose.
Poor Ellen, when the salary of forty dollars a
month was offered her, both to herself and
family it seemed a small fortune, for she
had been raised in a country town where
money was a rare commodity and the people
could barter and exchange their different
articles and live quite comfortably if not
luxuriously without a sight of it for months
together, and Ellen had always seemed ex-
ceptionally bright, the parents had made
many sacrifices that she might receive a
good education. Other children it is true,
had to attend to many of the home duties
to give her sufficient time to study and
were deprived in various ways. “But never

[Column 2]
mind dears,” the gentle, mother would say,
“Ellen will pay it all back some day. She
will come home and teach you and help
you along just as we help her now.” Poor,
proud, expectant mother, how many of
your kind are in the world today sacrificing
the whole family that one ambitious, selfish
child may have her desires.
	’Tis true, at heart, Ellen meant well; she
knew the whole family had gone without
necessary things that she might live in the
city and attend the university for the four
years normal course, but one year of teach-
ing she believed would pay it all back, she
did not dream of the many expenses the
city life would bring her for she loved
society, she loved music and she always
had adored nice clothes, besides it was quite
necessary for her to have them on else peo-
ple would guy her and say she was
countryfied and that she could never endure,
not that she was ashamed of having come
from the country, oh no indeed, but she
wanted folks to think if a country girl she
had just as good taste and manners as the
city-bred. So she reasoned and so she ex-
cused herself for her many extravagances
of theatre, and concert tickets, bon bons,
light gloves, fine shoes, dainty waists, her
perfect fitting winter jacket, her feathered
and be-ribboned hat, her perfumes and
flowers and all the trifles which go to com-
pose the paraphernalia of a pretty girl’s
wardrobe. She knew she was pretty and
she loved attention and though she was
rather poor she was somewhat sought after
by girls who had fine homes and plenty of
means, for her society was pleasant and
she always had many admirers. But the
last few days Ellen’s conscience had been
troubling her a good deal; she had received
a letter from her mother with a few hints of
what they father expected her to bring,
and her purse would by no means supply
them. Though vain and thoughtless she
might have been, the last few nights, as
soon as her school work was over she had
been calling to her aid all the intellectual
and literary ability she possessed in order
to write a story in competition f[-]r the prize
of fifteen dollars that a daily paper had of-
fered. The story was at last finished and
the girl co[-]pletely exhausted with hard
work and loss of sleep had now for two
weeks to sit on the anxious seat, for she
would not know before then, what the re-
sult would be. Her fears and hopes were
equally balanced, so much so t[-]at she
dreaded the announcement of the successful
story almost or quite as much as she longed
for it, and at any rate her journey home
would have to be postponed a few days for
she could never face the family without
some remembrance and she had very little
means, scarcely enough to buy her ticket
home. In the begining of the winter she
had promised herself that her mother should
have a fine warm shawl, her two sisters each a
pretty new dress with materials to make
them up, her three brothers, two of them a
pair of skates and the baby, dear, chubby
little Tom a sled, and her dear hard working
father a new overcoat; and now her
one cry was, oh if I only had been careful!
During the school hours the day seemed to
drag and how dreadfully nervous the buzz-
ing lips and scuffling feet of the school
children made her; would the day never end?
how close the school-room felt and how
disagreeable the children were. It was
quite evident Miss Hartwell was not so in-
terested in the children, and their work be-


