[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: A. | Author: Berrett]
[A. Theodore Tuttle Appointed to the First Council of Seventy William E. Berrett]

e. It was a breathtaking sight, and Carol's artist-soul was hushed in reverent awe. After awhile, when the moon was sailing high above the valley, Tony turned the car homeward. Carol was still held in the spell of what she had just witnessed, and Tony seemed to understand her mood. He drove back in silence. But as he bade her goodnight, he said gently, "This is just a beginning, Carol. I have many other beautiful sights to show you. We'll enjoy them together, you and [!"' ONY was as good as his word. He was forever planning something special, something to amuse and delight Carol. 'There were boating and fishing on the lake; there were horseback excursions into the mountains; there were picnics along the wooded river bank; and there were gay trips into the village for Church, or for a show. They did not often go alone together. Nearly always there were the children and frequently Fred and Dolly, and sometimes Mrs. Trent. For it was summertime, a time for family picnics, and it would have been unthinkable to ride away and leave the others sitting at home. 304 But somehow, in spite of the jolly crowd around them, 'Tony managed always to make it seem that the adventure was planned for her, alone, and that she and Tony were enjoying it in a togetherness that no companions could invade. Carol was conscious of this effect and felt that she should be proud and happy that Tony was making such an effort to captivate her. But for some obstinate, yet scarcely realized reason, Carol was not quite captivated. It was as if Tony was host at a perpetual picnic. You can't build a permanent relationship on a holiday base — you can't judge what life is like from a picnic, she told herself. Maybe, if Tony would just forget about me and go home and tend to his sister's ranch, and give me a chance to look at this thing objectively, it might be different! But he can't! She admitted ruefully. He is too young, too eager! And she remembered what Brent Gibson had said about a young man's ardor. The next time Tony came to round them all up for a picnic, Carol said firmly, "Come here, Tony. I want to show you something." She led him to the end of the porch and pointed off across the valley to the Grand Teton. "Look at the light on my favorite mountain! [I've never seen it quite like it is today, and I want to try to get that effect down while it's there. So I'm not going on any picnic today. I'm going to stay here and "But the kids!" Tony expostulated. ""They've planned on this!" His sister spoke up. "There's no RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 need to disappoint the children, Tony." "Pm not going to take them without Carol!" Tony said petulantly. "I wasn't thinking of that, but Fred has to see a man over at the Diamond G Ranch, and I was going with him. We can take the station wagon and the children, and have - our picnic out at Brooks Lake — they've never been there. They'll enjoy it, I'm sure." "Well, I guess I might as well g0 home and do some work, then," Tony's grumbling was softened by his cheerful voice. "If Carol would rather paint than have a picnic with me) "You know it's my life, Tony!" "But I've been trying so hard to change your life!