[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
[The West German Mission Preston R. Nibley]

But I suppose I have been selfish — never giving you a moment to yourself. Listen, sis," he turned to Dolly, "if you and Fred will take the children, I'll get back to the ranch and see if Luke can frnd something for me to boss." "We'll take the children, Tony." AROL was aware that Dolly had made the decision without even consulting Fred. Even Elizabeth wouldn't have done that, but it was none of Carol's affair. Dolly called to the children, "Get your things, children! Your father will be here any minute now." Becky, the quiet one, the one who painted a picture for Carol's room, came and stood hesitatingly beside her aunt. Carol bent and put an arm about the child. "What is it, Becky?" "Could I stay with you, Aunt Carol? Maybe I could paint the mountain, too." "Of course, darling. Id love to ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN have you with me. Come along, Pll fix you up a little easel and we'll take your little camp stool — you and I, honey, are going to have ourselves a real day of it!" An hour later, Carol and Becky were sitting side by side, facing the Grand Teton, both silent and intent on their work. Sometimes Carol cast an eye on the little girl's work, but she offered no suggestions. Not at this time, when the child was actually creating. Later, she'd have to give Becky some instruction — she seemed to have talent. And Carol looked with new fondness and appreciation at this child who was so often almost lost between her older sister and the adorable 'Trudy. They were so intent on their work, the two of them, that they did not hear someone approaching. It was only when a shadow fell across Carol's easel that she looked u a involuntary cry of happiness escaped her. "Brent!" Instinctively she rose, and he came close, taking her shoulders between his hands as he did in the office when he wanted to stress some instructions. "Hello, Carol! Yes, I decided to take your advice and come up here for my vacation." 'Then he went on soberly, "I might as well tell the whole truth. I got to thinking that I was a mighty poor sort to leave the field to that handsome youngster, without even a struggle!" Carol felt a wild desire to laugh and clap her hands. Instead she said, "Well, I'd about decided that you didn't care much if you did lose your chief artist." "But now you see that I do care. 395 And I'm here to fight for her." His voice was light, but his eyes were serious. Then he turned to Becky, smiling down at the child's splashed painting. "But I see that even up here, you have competition." "This is Becky, Elizabeth's third — and a budding artist as you've seen. Becky, this is Mr. Gibson." "Uncle Brent to you, honey," he said, and squinted at her work. Becky watched him, waiting for his verdict. "Will you give me a job when I am as big as Aunt Carol?" she asked. "If you want it, I certainly will. But maybe we won't have to wait that long. How much are you asking for that portrait of the Grand Teton?" Becky's eyes flew wide. "Would you buy it?" she gasped. "I'd like to, if it's for sale. Ill frame it and hang it in my office where I can look at it every day and think of Miss Becky Trent, the artist. Would you consider five dollars?"