[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Barnett]
Vesta Wright Barnett, author of the work meeting discussions, follows. ESTA Wright Barnett, author of the discussions recommended for work meeting, "Managing a Home," was born in Lincoln, Idaho, the sixth child in a family of eight, born to Moses J. And Sarah Stanger Wright. Her father died when she was twelve, and she went to Salt Lake and lived with her sister and brother-in-law, the Ebenezer J. Kirkhams, to attend the L. D. S. High School. She attended Ricks College for two years and then the Brigham Young University from which she received the B. S. And M. Ed. Degrees. She also did graduate work in home economics at the University of California in Los Angeles. She taught in Iona and Lincoln, Idaho, and Nephi, NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS Utah. In 1935 she went to Wyoming as a home demonstration agent for the Extension Service of the University of Wyoming, serving in Lincoln and Uinta counties. Sister Barnett is the wife of Owen L. Barnett, professor of Educational Administration at the Bngham Young University. He had four children at the time of their marriage: Wilmer L., Maurice, Maunel Williams, and Arlene Riley. The voungest daughter, Arlene, was eight vears old at the time of their marriage. Thev have had two daughters, Barbara fifteen. And May twelve, students at Bngham Young High School. At the present time Sister Barnett is chairman of the Department of Economics and Management in the College of Family Livi ing at the B. Y. U. She teaches classes in Home Management and Famulv Finance. Always active in the Church. She has worked in all the auxiliary organizations. She served as president of the Palmyra Stake Primary for many vears, and has served in the Stake Y. W ALTA. Presidency i Palmyra and Utah Stakes. And on the Relief Society Stake Board in the Palmyta Stake. She has taught classes in Pnmary, Sunday School, M. I. A, and Relief Society. At the present time she is president of the University Ward Y. W. M. DA. In Utah Stake. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see: Eider Rov W. Doxey.