[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: In | Author: Fox]
[In Memoriam — Ruth May Fox]

Have wider side underneath. Stitch close to edge of binding. One stitching catches top and bottom. 5. Hemmed Felled Seam—Used as a finish for light-weight fabrics, such as Page 387 :388 PINKED SEAM PINKED AND STITCHED SEAM DAA AAA OVERCAST SEAM TURNED AND STITCHED SEAM nainsook, batiste, and organdie. This is very good to finish seams at waistlines, yokes, and tops of ruffles. One edge of the seam is trimmed narrow. 'The other edge is turned down and folded over to meet the line of stitching. Hem down by hand. In addition to the above basic seam finishes, mention should be made of two special purpose seams which are extensively used where a stronger, more durable, method is needed. Such garments as children's clothes, undergarments, and active sportswear are subjected to added strains in wearing and constant laundering. For these a plain seam is usually not adequate. The following two seams will serve many useful purposes: 1. French Seam—A seam within a seam, especiall adapted for long straight RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 BOUND SEAM FLAT FELLED SEAM FRENCH SEAM OUteoRePergeinesa po ame HEMMED FELLED SEAM seams on sheer or light-weight fabrics that need frequent Jaunderings, such as lingerie, baby clothes, and girls' dresses. First, make a plain seam on the right side, with wrong sides together, taking less than 14 of the seam allowance. 'Trim raw edges evenly. Press well and turn, bringing right sides of material together. Crease on the line of previous stitching. Press and stitch again beyond the raw encased edges. The more sheer the fabric being used, the narrower the seam should be. 2. Flat Felled Seam—A strong tailored seam for play and sport clothes, men's shirts and pajamas, and women's tailored blouses. Pin or baste seam from the right side YOU CAN SEW — IV. SEAMS AND SEAM FINISHES 389 and stitch. Press to one side. Trim away underneath to within % inch or the same line. Turn other edge under % inch and pin flat so that raw edge is covered. Stitch. Take care to have the two rows of stitching always an even distance apart.