[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 40 | Category: Fiction | Title: Elizabeth's Children — Chapter 6 | Author: Olive W. Burt]
Elizabeth's Children
Olive W. Burt

CHAPTER 6

Synopsis: Carol Wilson, an artist on the staff of a magazine edited by Brent Gibson, went to a ranch in Wyoming to attend the funeral of her sister Elizabeth. She felt a deep sympathy for the motherless children, and later, after her return to her work, she decided to return to the children. However, she found them well cared for. Fred, Carol's brother-in-law, had become interested in a kindly neighbor, Dolly Graham, and Dolly's brother Tony declared his love for Carol. Brent Gibson telephoned, asking Carol to return to the city to make the illustrations for a serial story. After this work was completed, Carol went back to Wyoming for a vacation.

66 H, how good it is to be () back!" Carol cried ecstatically, throwing her arms wide and lifting her face to the serene majesty of the Tetons.

Tony Muuir's bright, clear young laughter rang out happily. "This is where you belong, Carol. 'Those who love the mountains should never leave them."

"Oh, I don't know, Tony!' Carol expostulated. "I love my city, too. I come here and am renewed, but if I lived here always, then where would I go for that renewal?"

"You wouldn't need it, then, believe me!" 'Tony assured her.

Carol felt argumentative. "The ideal life — for me at any rate — would be to live both places." A sudden light broke across her face. "That's it, Tony! I never thought it out before — never even planned to say it. It just came — but it's just right."

"I don't agree," Tony said doggedly. "You let me manage your days for awhile — really show you these mountains as I know them. You'll never want to leave — you'll never want to let those pretty little feet touch hot city pavement again."

He manipulated the big convertible deftly into Fred's yard, and the children came whooping. "Aunt Carol! Aunt Carol!"

The little girls flung their arms about her and held up their faces for kisses. Steve stood back a little, but his face was bight with happiness. Carol felt the warmth of their love. She gathered them close. 'Are you glad to see me?" she whispered.

"Oh, ves, Aunt Carol! We've got so many things to show you!"

They went across the porch and into the big living room, a close little knot, laughing gaily. Dolly Graham was waiting in the open door, smiling a welcome.

"Fred had to go down to the lower field, Carol. Something happened to one of the horses. But he'll be back soon."

Carol smiled. "It's so good to be here!" She crossed to Mrs. Trent and bent over the invalid. "You look wonderful, Mrs. Trent, and Tony tells me you're much better."

"Tam, Carol. Since Dolly's been here I've seemed to pick up wonderfully. Oh, I can't get about yet, but I don't suffer so much."

"That's what happiness does! And you are happier now, aren't you?"

Page 39]

392

"T think we all are," Mrs. Trent said, and sent a grateful smile toward Dolly Graham.

€€CCOME, Aunt Carol," Kathy tugged at her aunt's arm. "Let me show you! We've fixed up the guest room special."

"Let me show! Let me show!" Trudy shouted, scrambling ahead.

"Of course! And you, too, Becky. And Steve!" Carol laughed. "All of you come and show me. I'll bet each one can find something special."

They went gaily up the stairs and into the narrow room Carol remembered so well. But it was different now. 'The small dormer window at the end, by which she had crouched to get a peek at her beloved mountains, was gone. Now the whole end of the room was one big window, framing the Grand Teton and its satellites. She caught her hand to her heart and a little cry of delight escaped her lips.

"Do you like it, Carol?" Tony Muir had come upstairs behind them, and now he stood looking over Carol's shoulder at the magnificent view.;

"T love it! Oh, Tony!" She put her arm around Kathy, standing beside her, and gave the little girl a quick squeeze. "Kathy, darling! It's wonderful! And you did it for me?"

Kathy turned a shining face up to her aunt's. "Tony told Daddy to do it. 'Tony said you ought to have a good view of the mountains and not just a little peek at them out of that old window."

Carol turned to the man. "You and your sister think of the loveliest things!"

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958

Tony grinned. "I think so, too," he said complacently, and then chuckled.

"Roses on your bedspread, Aunt Carol," 'Trudy chanted.

"Yes, darling. Lovely!"

"T painted the picture, Aunt Carol," Becky announced proudly.

"But I painted the chair!" Steve - bragged.

"It's all perfect — absolutely perfect!' Carol cried.

"Tony said if everything was just right, you might stay a long, long, time,' Kathy volunteered.

Carol's smile was tremulous. How had she ever doubted their deep and abiding love for her? But welcome as she was, loved as she was, she was a guest in this house and could not stay a long, long time.

"We'll see, darling. I'll stay as long as I possibly can."

Carol didn't have to wait for Fred's return to know how things had progressed between him and Dolly Graham. She didn't need to see how his look softened whenever his eyes fell on the woman. She didn't have to hear how his voice grew tender when he spoke to her. No, before Fred came back to the house, Carol knew. For Dolly Graham was right at home in Fred's house; she knew where everything was; and Mrs. Cartwright came to her for orders. Even Mrs.