[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Accidents | Author: Done]
[Accidents The Greatest Threat to Our Children Alan K. Done]
<yiccidents:  cJhe   (greatest  cJhreat  to   \:yur   (^hi/dren 
Ahn  K.  Done,  M.D. 
Department  of  Pediatrics,  Uni\crsity  of  Utah  College  of  Medicine 
Pre]5ared  for  the  Salt  Lake  Safety  Council 
MORE  chiJcheu  die  horn  acci- 
dents than  from  the  six  most 
deadly  diseases  combined! 
And  year  by  year  tlie  accident  threat 
becomes  greater,  relatively  speaking, 
because  the  death  rate  from  disease 
is  diminishing  three  times  as  rapidly 
as  the  death  rate  from  accidents.  In 
the  United  States  this  year,  over 
10,000  children  will  die,  and  40,000 
to  50,000  will  be  permanently  crip- 
pled by  accidents. 
Parents  can't  be  expected  to  fore- 
see all  of  the  numerous  and  some- 
times subtle  dangers  which  threaten 
children.  Nothing  short  of  continu- 
al watching  or  complete  immobiliza- 
tion will  insure  absolutely  that  a 
child  will  not  have  an  accident;  and, 
obviously,  neither  is  desirable.  A 
child  should  be  allowed  to  de\'elop 
as  a  self-sufficient  individual,  and 
certainly  cannot  do  this  without 
suffering  a  few  bumps  and  bruises 
(both  physically  and  mentally) 
along  the  way. 
The  most  logical  approach  to  the 
problem  is  through  ( 1 )  an  under- 
standing of  the  child  himself,  and 
why  he  is  accident  prone,  and  ( 2 )  a 
knowledge  of  the  types  of  accidents 
which  pose  the  greatest  threat  to 
the  child,  and  the  ways  in  which 
these  accidents  occur. 
The  Child  and  His  Ways 
A  fear  of  (or  respect  for)  any- 
thing, with  the  possible  exception 
of  loud  noises,  comes  about  through 
Page  380 
experience  and  learning,  and  this 
takes  time.  In  other  words,  a  child 
is  not  born  with  the  instinctive 
knowledge  that  fire  wall  burn,  auto- 
mobiles will  crush,  or  ^^'ater  will 
drown  him.  On  top  of  this,  he  has 
an  insatiable  curiosity  which  insures 
that  he  will  taste  everything  within 
reach,  climb  into  or  upon  every  ac- 
cessible structure,  and  will  reach  in- 
to every  closet,  cupboard,  or  piece 
of  machinery  available. 
Obviously,  the  degree  to  which 
the  \'ery  young  child  can  be  taught 
to  protect  himseli  is  quite  limited. 
Not  that  attempts  to  teach  him 
should  not  be  made.  On  the  con- 
trary, when  the  child  reaches  the 
age  of  five  or  six  and  is  away  at 
school  most  of  the  time,  he  will  be 
dependent  for  protection  almost 
entirely  upon  what  we  have  been 
able  to  teach  him  about  safety. 
Before  the  child  is  old  enough 
to  learn,  he  must  be  protected,  utter- 
ly and  completely  protected.  Some 
measures  which  can  be  taken  to 
provide  this  protection  will  be 
enumerated  as  we  consider  accidents 
of  different  types.  As  the  child  be- 
comes old  enough  to  understand, 
an  occasional  well-timed  "no-no" 
or  tap  on  the  hand  (or  seat)  may 
properly  be  used  to  begin  his  educa- 
tion in  self-preservation.  It  must  be 
remembered,  however,  that  the 
young  child  is  incapable  of  under- 
standing the  implication  of,  or  rea- 
sons for,  such  eautionings.  Conse- 
quently, if  there  are  too  many  of

ACCIDENTS:  THE  GREATEST  THREAT  TO  OUR  CHILDREN 
381 
them,  lie  simph  l)eeoincs  eonfused 
and  little  will  lia\e  been  gained. 
Now,  a  final  snggestion  before  dis- 
cussing the  aecidents  thenisehes: 
Don't  rob  yonr  ehild  of  the  educa- 
tional \alue  of  his  minor  misad\"en- 
turcs  and  injuries.  The  ehild  best 
learns  by  experience,  but  if  he  is 
rewarded  after  ha\ing  a  nnnor  acci- 
dent, the  educational  \  alue  is  largely 
lost.  Let  him  associate  hot  things 
with  the  painful  sensation  of  burn- 
ing, not  with  cookies  or  kisses. 
The  most  common,  serious  acci- 
dents of  children  include  motor  ^-e- 
hidc  accidents,  hUs,  poisonings, 
burns,  drowmngs,  and  injuries  with 
sharp  objects.  Let  us  no\\-  consider 
the  \\'ays  in  \\hich  these  aecidents 
most  commonly  occur  so  that  we 
may  ha\e  additional  ammunition 
with  which  to  fight  the  battle  of 
child  safety. 
Automobile  vs.  Child 
Automobiles  kill  more  children 
each  year  than  any  other  single 
cause.  The  problem  of  automobile 
safety  is  too  broad  to  coyer  here  m 
its  entirety,  but  let  us  consider  those 
aspects  of  the  problem  which  apply 
specificalh;  and  directly  to  the  child. 
A  large  number  of  deaths  and  in- 
juries to  children  result  from  their 
falling  or  being  thrown  either  inside 
the  car  or  to  the  outside  through 
an  accidentally  opened  door.  A  child 
standing  on  the  back  seat  may  be 
thrown  to  the  floor,  or  one  seated 
next  to  the  dri\er  may  be  thrown 
against  the  dashboard  or  windshield 
in  the  eyent  of  a  sudden  stop  or 
collision.  Most  conyentional  car 
doors  can  be  opened,  e\'en  when 
'locked/'  simply  by  manipulation  of 
the  handle.     Special  locks  can  be 
obtained  which  can  be  opened  from 
the  dri\'er's  seat  or  safety  catches 
can  be  installed  in  the  rain  gutter 
abo\'e  the  door.  In  lieu  of  safety 
locks,  it  is  possible  simply  to  remoye 
the  inside  handles  of  the  rear  doors 
so  that  they  must  be  opened  from 
the  outside.  Ob\'iously  seat-belts 
would  be  extremely  desirable  for  the 
child  who  is  old  enough  to  use 
them. 
Many  children  are  killed  eyery 
3^ear  by  automobiles  backing  from 
dri\'eways.  Eyen  though  one  may 
look  about  to  determine  that  the 
way  is  clear,  the  few  minutes  it 
takes  to  get  into  the  car  and  start  it 
mo\ing  is  more  than  ample  for  a 
small  child  to  sneak  behind  the  car 
unseen.  It  is  far  safer  to  know 
where  the  child  is  than  to  think  )0u 
know  where  he  isnt. 
It  is  worth  remembering  that 
eyeryone  is  not  going  to  be  as  con- 
cerned about  your  children  as  you. 
A  neighbor,  dcli\er\  man,  or  yisitor 
may  not  think  to  look  about  before 
driying  away.  The  child  playing 
behind,  under,  on  or  in  front  of  his
