[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Father]
[The Prophet Joseph Smith's Tribute to His Father]

Finish the seam edges according to the following instructions, using the method best suited to the fabric: 1. Pinked Seam—Good for fabrics which do not fray easily. Trim a plain seam with pinking shears, being careful just to nick the edge in order to preserve the full seam allowance. On heavy fabrics which have some tendency to fray, pink and then machine stitch close to the pinked edge. 2. Overcast Seam—Stronger than the pinked seam; useful for finishing all kinds of edges, especially when fabrics are too heavy for other finish. Zig-zag sewing machine stitching over the edge makes a fine, firm finish. When done by hand, trim the edge and finish with slanting stitches over the cut edges about % inch apart. Seams at armhole and waistline are overcast together. 3. Turned and Stitched Seam—A very serviceable and durable seam for light or medium-weight materials that fray. 'Turn under the raw edge of seams '%-inch and stitch evenly close to the fold. 4. Bound Seam—Recommended for unlined coats, jackets, or robes. Press a fold slightly to one side of the center of rayon seam tape and baste over raw edges of seams.

his father, Albert M. Tuttle, a sheep rancher, cattle buyer, and high priest in the Church. Two things stand out concerning this period of his youth: he seemed always to have believed in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and he seemed always to have been establishing goals to be reached — rungs on the ladder already being built. Successively, his achievements are chronicled by honors which came to him, president of the seminary at Manti, president of the high school student body, president of the freshman class in Snow College, district president in the Northern States Mission, president of Delta Phi, returned missionary fraternity at Brigham Young University, outstanding senior in the division of religion 1943, seminary teacher, institute director, supervisor of semiPage 363 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 a y 3 \ TUTTLE AND HIS FAMILY ELDER A. THEODORE Front row, left to right: Marne Whitaker Tuttle; Clarissa Marne; Jonathan Whitaker; Elder Tuttle. Back row, left to right: Diane; Robert Theodore; David Merrill. Naries and institutes for the Church, and now one of the Seven Presidents of the First Quorum of Seventy. NE must not suppose that such a ladder could be clintbed alone. On July 26, 1943, he induced a companion to make the climb with him, and Marne Whitaker, from Flensburg, Washington, a Brigham Young University student, enters the picture. Like all men who achieve, he needed a bit of a push by his good wife and five fine children for those higher rungs. And it took a bit of the fire and carnage on Iwo Jima, and leadership of the Latterday Saint Marines in the Fifth Marine Division to toughen the fiber and test the soul. It was in those war-torn years that the faith of a mother, the courage of a wife, and the habits of a lifetime weighted the scales toward nghteousness. In those days he must have remembered and felt the influence of the Priesthood Quorums, the Sunday Schools, the Mutual Improvement Association, the sacrament meetings, and yes, the Relief Society — for he recalls the years when his mother was stake Relief Society president and the secretary lived six miles away, so the burden of the immediate secretarial work fell on young 'I'ed, the high school student, who says, "It seems to me that I must have typed the slogan 'Members old, members new — 100,000 by 42,' at least 100,000 times." Yes, President Tuttle, leader extraordinary, is a product of the Church of Jesus Christ. She Mlagic