Guide Lessons LESSON I. Genealogy and Testimony (Required.) First Week in April. SALVATION FOR THE DEAD, A VICARIOUS WORK. TEXT: "History of the Testament. Church," Vol. VI;  Obadiah, Old AIM: "Only through the symbolic labors of the living may the dead enter into the Church through the doors of Subsequent. "to receiving his first revelation on the principle of salvation for the dead, the Prophet Joseph Smith revealed the vital fact to the people that the hope of the dead lay in the labors of the living, no matter how earnestly the spirits in prison might desire baptism and the ordinances pertaining to the priesthood. It would be impossible for them to obtain those keys and blessings except through the vicarious labor of living descendants or friends. All religious forms are symbolic in their character, so are all civil forms. The shaking of hands, the taking of an oath of office, the execution of any deed of trust or any civic process, all are conducted in symbols. The very words in which this is written are put in groups or symbols (or letters of a symbolic alphabet) which express the thought of the writer to be grasped by the reader who glances over these symbols. So, too, are all forms of religion presented to our minds in the shape of symbols. Marriage, baptism, confirmation, the Lord's Supper, and all the ordinances of the temple, are symbolic from first to last. Like the Savior's parables, they convey to the mind, through their symbols, a thought which may not be expressed except through symbols. Symbols belong to this earth, for we see as through a glass darkened, until we come to see as we are seen and know as we are known. In the Celestial Kingdom it may be that • no symbols will be necessary, but they are sometimes on this earth and in the intermediate state which is called Paradise and where the waiting spirits are in "prison." They are prevented from advancing and developing for lack of the keys and powers which would permit them to advance. These spirits which have once tabernacled in the flesh must needs receive the symbols which pertain to the gospel plan upon the earth on which they once lived. Realizing this, the Prophet Joseph Smith put into active operation the principle of baptism for the dead. That his mind dwelt heavily on this principle and the mission of Elijah is evidenced by the following extracts from the "History of the Church," Vol VI, page 251: "Now for Elijah. The spirit, power, and the calling of Elijah is, that ye have power to hold the keys of the revelation, ordinances, oracles, powers and endowments of the fulness of the Melchizedek Priesthood and of the kingdom of God upon the earth: and to receive, obtain, and perform all the ordinances belonging to the kingdom of God. even unto the turning of the hearts of the fathers unto the children, and the hearts of the children unto the fathers, even those who are in heaven. "Malachi says. T will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: and he shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.' "Now. what I am after is the knowledge of God. and I take my own course to obtain it. What are we to understand by this in the last days? "In the days of Noah. God destroyed the world by a flood, and he has promised to destroy it by fire in the last days: but before it should take place, Elijah should first come and turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, etc. "Now comes the point. What is this office and work of Elijah? It is one of the greatest and most important subjects that God has revealed. He should send Elijah to seal the children to the fathers, and the fathers to the children. "Now. was this merely confined to the living, to settle difficulties with families on earth? By no means. It was a far greater work. Elijah! what would you do if you were here? Would you confine your work to the living alone? No;  I would refer you to the Scriptures, where the subject is manifest: that is, without us. they could not be made perfect, nor we without them;  the fathers without the children, nor the children without the fathers. "I wish you to understand this subject, for it is important; and if you will receive it, this is the spirit of Elijah, that we redeem our dead, and connect ourselves with our fathers which are in heaven, and seal up our dead to come forth in the first resurrection;  and here we want the power of Elijah to seal those who dwell on the earth to those who dwell in 
 heaven. This is the power of Elijah and the keys of the kingdom of Jehovah. dwells “Let in heavenus suppose should a reveal case. himself Suppose to the great Cutler Father God here, who by the opening of the heavens, and tell him, *I offer up a decree that whatsoever you seal on earth with your decree, I will seal it in heaven.' You have the power then;  can it be taken off? No. Then what you seal on earth, by the keys of Elijah, is sealed in heaven;  and this is the power of Elijah, and this is the difference between the spirit and power of Elias and Elijah;  for while the spirit of Elias is a forerunner, the power of Elijah is sufficient to make our calling and election sure;  and the same doctrine, where we are exhorted to go on to perfection, not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of laying on of hands, resurrection of the dead, etc. "We cannot be perfect without the fathers, etc. We must have revelation from them, and we can see that the doctrine of revelation far transcends the doctrine of no revelation;  for one truth revealed from heaven is worth all the sectarian notions in existence." "Again: The doctrine or sealing power of Elijah is as follows: If you have power to seal on earth and in heaven, then we should be wise. The first thing you do, go and seal on earth your sons and daughters unto yourself, and yourself unto your fathers in eternal glory. * * * will walk through the gate of heaven and claim what I seal, and those that follow me and my counsel." The Patriarch Hyrum Smith delivered the following significant address on this subject, on the 8th of April, 1844: " I never knew a proclamation to be understood at once. President Brigham Young wished to draw the attention of the brethren, first, to build the temple and get your washings and anointings, and endowments;  after that, to build up branches through the nations. We must do all we can to build up the temple, and after that to build churches. The gathering will continue here until the temple is so far finished that the elders can get their endowments;  and after that the gathering will be from the nations to North and South America, the symbols of the wings. The gathering from the old countries will always be to headquarters, and I have no doubt this conference will do a great deal of good." Again the prophet gave even more light upon the subject, on May 9, 1844: "My text is on the resurrection of the dead, which you will find in the 14th chapter of John — 'In my Father's house are many mansions.' It should be, 'In my Father's kingdom are many kingdoms,' in order that ye may be heirs of God and joint heirs with me. I do not behave the Methodist doctrine of sending honest men and noble minded men to hell, along with the murderer and the adulterer. They may hurl all their hell and fiery billows upon me, for they will roll off me as fast as they come on. But I have an order of things to save the poor fellows at any rate, and get them saved;  for I will send men to preach to them in prison and save them if I can. "There are other and there mansions for for mansions those who those obey come a celestial short of law, the law, every man in his own order. There is baptism, etc., for those to exercise who are alive and baptism for the dead who die without the knowledge of the gospel. "I am going on in my progress for eternal life. It is not only necessary that you should be baptized for your dead, but you will have to go through all the ordinances for them, the same as you have gone through to save yourselves. There will be 144,000 saviors on Mount Zion, and with them an innumerable host that no man can number. Oh, I beseech you to go forward, go forward and make your calling and your election sure;  and if any man preach any other gospel than that which I have preached, he shall be cursed;  and some of you who now hear me shall see it, and know that I testify the truth concerning them. In regard to the law of the Priesthood there should be a place where all nations shall come up from time to time to receive their endowments, and the Lord has said this shall be the place for baptisms for the dead. Every man that has been baptized and belongs to the kingdom has a right to be baptized for those who have gone before;  and as soon as the law of the gospel is obeyed here by their friends who act as proxy for the dead, the Lord has administrators there to set them free. A man may act as proxy for his own relatives;  the ordinances of the gospel which were laid out before the foundations of the world have thus been fulfilled by them, and we may be baptized for those whom we have much friendship for;  but it must first be revealed to the man of God, lest we should run too far. 'As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive' ;  all shall be raised from the dead. The Lamb of God hath brought to pass the resurrection, so that all shall rise from the dead. "God Almighty, himself, dwells in eternal fire;  flesh and blood cannot go there, for all corruption is devoured by the fire. 'Our God is a consuming fire.' When our flesh is quickened by the Spirit, there will be no blood in this tabernacle. Some dwell in higher glory than others." This principle occupied the last closing thoughts of the 
 Prophet, as is shown by these extracts, for the last discourse quoted occurred only a month before his own martyrdom. QUESTIONS. 1. What do you understand by vicarious work? 2. Who was the great exemplar of vicarious salvation? 3. 21.) What was the prophecy of Obadiah? (Obadiah, verse 4. Describe the nature of symbols. 5. What are letters of the alphabet? 6. Who arranged our present alphabet? 7. What symbols can you suggest as pertaining to daily life? (b) What to civil life? 8. How do symbols enter into a marriage ceremony? 9. What is the form of baptism and how is it symbolic? 10. Why must a living person perform the symbolic ordinances for a dead person? 11. What do you know of the claim of the Reaganites condition for cerning the Prophet's dead? attitude on temple work and Salvant: The practical work for our genealogical class this month is the study and practice of genealogical correspondence. We suggest that each member write at least one genealogical letter during the month, and that the class practice on a model letter to secure required genealogical information of the Society.