BY AVONDALE.

	There were great expectations in the family
of the Lindsays, their daughter Mary was of
age, and it had been determined that she
should be married, and that to the man of her
choice. Her father, Joseph Lindsay, had mar-
ried to a lady of considerable culture, and of
some wealth, on the 5th of August, 1760, Miss
Augustina Smith, who was connected with one
of the first city families, had signed the con-
tract of marriage at the church of All Hal-
lows Staining, Mark Lane, in the city of Lon-
don. 
	The bridegroom carried on the business of a
surgeon and apothecary, in Bermondsey, on 
the Surrey side of the Thames, at London, and
he was generally called "Apothecary Lind-
sey," on account of his vocation. It was also
generally known that he was a Scotchman,
chiefly by his name and the traditions respect-
ing his forefathers, who from the general re-
port of the good people of Bermondsey, had
been remarkable for deeds of blood in the re-
mote ages, qualities which have distin-
guished the ancestors of other families besides
those of "Apothecary Lindsay."
	Now, Miss Mary, as before stated, was about
to be married, but in those days, as now, there
was truth in the adage, "the course of true
love never runs smooth," the lover, a promising,
young man died. This event had a tendency
to cast a shadow over the future of Mary Lind-
say, who had already contracted a habit ap-
proaching to that of melancholy; her three
brothers had died when she was young, they
were buried in the New Bermondsey church
yard, where their tiny graves were constantly
decorated with flowers and evergreens by the
fair hands of their lonely sister. Mary was a
beautiful girl and affectionate ss beautiful. In
after years she would tell of her sorrows at los-
ing her "pretty little brothers," and although
her young lover was not mentioned, and she
had ceased to weep, her lips trembled with
emotion. 
	Poor Mary Lindsay! It was well for you
that you were the patient, gentle being that
you were; in your experience the truth of the
sentiment was verified that:

[Column 2]

	"God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb."
	It was a misfortune that "Apothecary Lind-
sey" had been brought into contact with city
men, wealthy citizens of London, and had seen
the advantages monied men possessed over
small tradesmen like himself, and he had si-
lently resolved to have his daughter married
to a wealthy city merchant. It is true, reasoned
the apothecary, that a clerk in holy orders
would be a good match, provided he had an
adequate income, but what would be the use of
the small dowry I can give with my girl to a 
poor curate, to assist in bringing up a family.
Now, this sum, although small, amounting to
only a few thousand pounds, added to the busi-
ness of a thriving city merchant, would do
something, and my beloved daughter would
have all the advantages of wealth and social
consideration in the highest city circles.
	Mr. William Unipod was just the man to
marry his daughter, he was a merchant of the
city of London, carrying on the business of a 
grocer, in Coleman Street, he had branch
houses at Waltham Abbey, Essex, at Edmon-
ton, Middlesex, and at other country places.
His wagons were constantly in motion convey-
ing goods to his various establishments.
Then, again, he was a member of the Dyers
Company, one of the "worshipful" city guilds,
dating from a great antiquity. It is true Mr.
Unipod was a widower, but his family was not
large, two sons and a daughter; but then there
was ample wealth, country residences for Mary
to dwell in whenever she chose to visit the
"other establishments," and it would be so de-
lightful to visit the dear Lindsays who were in 
the Church at Waltham Abbey and Edmon-
ton. As to Mary Lindsay, she was scarcely
consulted and cared little about the arrange-
ments that had been made, her heart had been 
given to another; her affections were in the
grave.
	To be Continued.


