HAIL, THE GLAD NEW YEAR.

	FOR  all those whose paths lie in pleasant
places, the new year beams with light and glad-
ness. For the wretched, the sorrowing and the
unfortunate, it has no charms, but awakens
sadness. In this world there are times and sea-
sons set apart as it were for special rejoicing,
which help to fill to the brim the cup of human
happiness. One of these is the opening of the
New Year. When one casts away for the time
being, all the unhappy past, forgets all strifes
and differences, makes new resolves before hea-
ven and mankind, and revels as it were in the
luxury of a new phase of life. It is, as if a
new era were unfolding, in which all good were
possible and all evil banished. And, indeed,
it is apparently buried out of sight; and with un-
daunted courage one looks bravely forward to
the auspicious future, which fancy clothes in
rosy light, with only neutral shading, and re-
vels in the glorious days to come, which rise in
vision full of a peaceful calm. Without these sea-
sons of respite, these days of active restfulness,
life would indeed be naked and incomplete.
There are days that make recompense for years,
and hours so burdened with joy that the con-
sciousness of their rich fulness of enjoyment,out-
balances life's multiplicity of woes. Men and
women are like children at the beginning of
the new year; it is humanity's great holiday, in
which all join of every caste and creed. What
shall the new year be? Will it bring joy and
sunshine to the home and heart? How many
silently ponder and inwardly determine to make
greater efforts for those they love. Each new
year presents as it were a new book on which to
inscribe one's record. The first page, in many
instances is like the bright new book, filled with
good intentions, high resolves and buoyant as-
pirations, which hold out hopeful promise. By
and by one hindrance after another comes in
the way, and blots and blurs; and irregularities
in the precious record mar the beauty of the
pages; leaf after leaf is thus destroyed, until dis-
couraged and despondent, weary with repeated
failure,the spirits flag and carelessness and chron-
ic indifference usurp the place of the noble am-
bition to improve and excel.
	A new era is unfolding. This is no fable, no
idle tale; changes are taking place all around,
which mark the time as one of peculiar signifi-
cance. The world feels it perceptibly. Their
wise men like those of old, put their construc-
tions upon it, counsel together and decide the
planets are in conjunction, that is one cause, it
affects the earth, great sickness like scourges
will sweep over portions of the earth, and many
will fall victims to the powerful influences; these
are some of their conclusions. Like the unbe-
lievers in the days of Noah, they will not receive
the word of the Lord from his prophets, but find

[Column 2]

out a way of escape through the discoveries of
men of science. God works upon natural principles,
and what to men is marvelous, is no miracle
with Him, but He reveals himself to whomso-
ever He will. The Prophet Joseph and the pro-
phets of ancient days proclaimed the destruc-
tions that would come, when wickedness should
increase, and the earth become fully ripe in cor-
ruption. Is it not coming to pass all around
day by day? Who has eyes to see and sees it not,
or ears to hear and understands not? Over and
over again the predictions of the raging of
the elements and wars and rumors of
wars, earthquakes in divers places, thunderings,
lightnings, and winds have been prophesied of.
Have they not begun? When was there ever
such a record of shipwrecks and disasters by sea
and land? And yet men will reason and at-
tribute it to nature, acknowledging not God in
His own works, in whom is all intelligence.
Jesus preached faith—and Paul said faith is the
evidence of things not seen. "Without faith no
man can see God," says the Scripture; but with-
out faith no man acknowleges God.
	Is there anything important to do in the days
now dawning through the new year just born?
Undoubtedly there is. For all who have chosen
the path of duty—the morning of light and intel-
ligence has been ushered in, and this is only
another link in the great chain of destiny which
binds the eternal ages in one solid whole. The
work of salvation for the living and the dead
in its sublimity and grandeur rises up to view,
and the eternities beyond beckon onward, on-
ward all, who will listen to the promptings of
the Spirit of God, whose voice is in the whirl-
wind, and the echo in the caverns of the earth.
The gospel must be preached to all nations, kin-
dreds, tongues, and people; Zion must be re-
deemed, and the waste places made glad. Are
not these things being fulfilled in part? Where
are the helpers; those who are willing to submit
to the law of God, walking in the path of duty
and trusting in his divine assistance. Is there
work for all in the Gospel field? Even so. It
lies all around on every hand. Each day brings
sacrifices, temptations, and besetments, that
one may draw nearer to God for guidance. There
is safety in keeping God's commandments and
walking in his ordinances blameless. Stand not
idle, the field is ripe and the laborers are few.
How true this saying of the Savior, and how es-
pecially applicable to the Latter-day Saints at
the present time. How few seem to realize the
necessity of increased diligence and faithfulness,
and the injunction of the Savior, "Love ye one
another." This law of love is what will bind
the Saints stronger than bands of iron. The con-
necting of families, through the chain of the
holy priesthood, cementing hearts as well as
hands; verily the hearts of the children are be-
ing turned to the fathers, and the fathers to the
children. Let us hope that in this new year
many who now sit in darkness may be brought
into the glorious light of the gospel, and let each
one who has covenanted to serve God, strive to
make a bright and clean record of good deeds
faithfully performed; one which the angels will
rejoice to record in the archives of heaven.


