H. H.  EDENBORONGH, Sec'y.

  The annual  meeting  of  the  R. S.  Grass
Valley Ward was held in the Grove August the
3rd, 1880, Pres.Margereth Anderson, presiding.
There were  present,  of the  presidency  of the
Stake,  Brothers  A.  K.  Thurber.  W.  Seeg-
miller also  of the presiding  ladies of  the R. S.
of the Stake  Pres.,  E.  Bean  and  T.  Thurber
also of P.A., Pres. L. Heppler and  Lucy Bell,
and others of the leading  brethren  and sisters
of the Stake.  After the usual exercises of sing-
ing and prayer the annual  report was read by
the Sec'y., as follows:
 Statistical: Teachers,  11;  members,  61;
officers  and  members,  79;  meetings  held 24;
average attendance, 42:  WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
13. Financial:  On  hand  at  our  last annual
report, property  $55.  19  cents;  wheat,  21
bushels 28lbs., receipts  for  the  year, property,
$57. 57cts., made by labor, 53. 50c.  total $111.
07  cents.  Disbursed:  Manti  temple,  $16,55;
missionaries $1.50; home-industry 5.70; build-
ings. $13.80; poor and sick. 15.46; books and
stationary 4.15, total, 57.16; in  treasury pro-
perty $109.09; wheat 35 bushels 27 lbs.
  Sister E.  Bean  addressed  the  congregation
in  her  usual  instructive  and  pleasant way,
spoke of the duties resting upon the mothers in
the raising of their children and being one with

[Column 3]
our husbands and the necessity of every woman
having a testimony for herself.  Sister T. Thur-
ber  encouraged  home-industry  and  exhorted
the young to improve their  time in usefulness.
Bro. George Bean  gave a very  interesting ac-
count of the celebration of the 24th of July in
S. L. City; and spoke of the necessity of our be-
ing united  in  these  trying  times.  Sister L. 
Heppler spoke of the  mothers  needing  the
Spirit of God, to enable us to raise our children
in a right and acceptable way before God, said
we should teach  our boys  to  honor their call-
ings in the  priesthood.  She  loved to see our
HOMES  ornamented  with our own  handiwork
and thought  the  Lord  was  pleased with our
home-industry. Bro, A.  K.  Thurber  made
some  interesting and encouraging remarks,
said the sisters held the  priesthood  in  connec-
tion with their  husbands, and  had a right to
lay hands on  the  sick  and  bless  them in  the
name  of Jesus.  He thought the sisters kept a
better account of their business than the breth-
ren.
   An organization  of the  Burrville Relief So-
ciety was then effected by  their  own request.
Meeting was  adjourned  with  singing.  Ben-
ediction by Bishop J. H. Wright.
 After partaking  of a hearty dinner  in  the
grove we  enjoyed  ourselves in a  social party
there being a good floor in  the  bowery which
place was neatly ornamented with the home-in-
dustry  of the R. S., and Y. L. M. I. A., and the
Primary Associations of the Ward.  The  Spirit
of God was with  us  and  peace  and  harmony
prevailed and  all seemed to  enjoy  themselves
both young and old, and said it could not have
been better in the older settlements.
  We all feel  to thank our  Heavenly  Father
for the many blessings we enjoy, we also realize
that the EXPONENT is a valuable paper and is
a great help and  guide  to  us  in  our  diffesent
associations, and we wish it success that it may
be enlarged,and may grow and prosper and do
great good in Zion.
		    MARGERETH ANDERSON, Pres.
