EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE introduce in this number a new story by
Avondale, which we think will prove exceeding-
ly interesting to our readers. "Pen Sketch of an
Illustrious Woman" is necessarily delayed
again. "Jesse Burns" will be continued in
our next- Be sure and read "Life Incidents"
in this issue.

	GEORGE ELIOT: Thursday, Dec. 23d, the
telegrams announced the death of the world-
renowned authoress, George Eliot, who died
suddenly in London, of congestive chill. Ma-
rian Evans, was her real name, she was the
daughter of an English clergyman, born in
Warwickshire, in 1820. No doubt she receiv-
ed a careful and thorough education in her
youth; however in her womanhood she pro-
duced some of the most powerful writings that
ever emanated from the brain of man or wo-
man. Men and critics alike pronounced her
famous. Her novels are not merely romance,
but contain true philosophy and a depth of
thought which characterize her as a sound rea-
soner and a woman of great strength of intel-
lect. As a writer of fiction she has carried off
the palm in the nineteenth century. For years
she has contributed to the Cornhil[-], and Black-
wood magazines, and for some years occupied
the position of joint editor to the Westminster.
This fact alone shows in what estimation her
talents as a writer were held. We know com-
paratively little of her private life, but through
her writings we believe she possessed an innate
purity of character, and we know that she en-
joyed the highest and grandest in-
tellectual gifts and capacities, and the
most extensive culture. We learned to love
her through her books, which touched the finest
feelings of the hnman soul and grasped as it
were the mysteries of the unknown which lie
shrouded in the heart of hearts. Famous
among her novels are Middle march, The Mill
on the Floss, Clerical Life, Daniel Drronda
and others equally good but perhaps the best
is Romola which was published when very
little was known of the author and it was un-
iversally believed was written by a man. We


regret her loss to the world of letters, and feel
as if a near dear and loving friend had gone
beyond. She was a woman of whom the world
may justly be proud.


