		ENGLAND

  We are favored  with  the  following  extract
from a letter recently received  by Sec'y. S. M.
Kimball from  Elder  T.  C.  Griggs, Islington,
London.   Our Conferance was held  last  Sun-
day  and  I  gathered  some  items  relative to
Relief Society work in this Conference. Prest.
S. Roskelly who  is very active in the  interest
of all that pertains to  the  advancement  of the
interest of the Kingdom of God, laid before the
ladies certain items of information and encour-
agement contained in your note which I assure
you were very acceptable.  From the reports pre-
sented to Pres. Roskelly  I  cull the following.
  There are three branches of the Relief Society
in this  Conference  to wit.  The  White Chapel
with a membership of ten ladies who have since
March 4th, 1879 to Sept. 29th, 1880, made 291
visits, collected in the same length of time £ 6,

[Column 2]
13, 9, all of which  they  have  distributed,  and
since their  organization  March 4th, 1879 they
have assisted thirty three (33)  persons  to  emi-
grate.  The  present  officers  are:  Pres., and
Treas, Elizabeth  Young,  First  Coun. Susan
Whitpin Second Coun. Susan Waterfall, Sec'y.
Eliza Farnes.
 The North London R. S. Branch was organ-
ized Feb. 1875, since which time to Sept. 30th,
1880, they have collected £29. 15, 8 1/4, and dis-
tributed £28. 15,0 leaving them with a balance
on hand of £1,0,8 1/4.  They have a membership
of  ten  ladies  energetic  and  liberal  affording
very acceptable  support  to the  branch  organ-
ization in many ways.  The present officers are:
Pres. Avis Cross. First Coun.  Frances Cornell,
Second  Coun.  Mrs.  Frankland  Sec.  Lovina
Cross, Treasurer  Angie Cross.
 The Lambeth  R.  S.  Branch  having  also a
membership of ten  ladies  was  organized Jan.
9th, 1877.  They are diligent in the good work
of  alleviating  the poor and  afflicted and com-
forting those that mourn:  They  have to Sept.
30th,  1880  collected  and  disbursed [pound sign]4,3,7 1/4
Their officers are Pres. Mrs. Beeching 1st. Coun.
Emily Ryan,  2nd, Coun. Emma  Brown, Sec.
Nellie Armitage, Treas. Jane Hills.
 These Societies  have many  difficulties to en-
counter,  the  members  are  scattered  over a
radius of some 12 to 15 miles in their enormous
city of more than  4,000,000,  inhabitants,  and
while they have their  own  burdens, cares  and
privations  to endure,yet withal find  time and
means to carry on the Society  work and  thus
comfort  and  bless  their  fellow beings.- God
bless them is my desire continually- I send as
an item of interest  the first minutes recorded
in the White-chapel Society branch record.
   Wednesday evening March 4th, 1874. This
branch was organized by Pres, R. T. Burton of 
the London Conference, assisted by the branch
Pres. Peter Romereil  and others of the Priest-
hood.  The nominations were carried by all the
members present  at the meeting.
  Elder Romerell  encouraged  the  sisters to
faithfully carry out the  duties  connected  with
the Society and a great amount  of good  would
be the  result.  Elder  R.  T.  Burton  followed
with good instructions  and  an  interesting  ac-
count of the Relief Society in his ward at home
in Zion.  The  teachers  received  by donations
the amount of six shillings and sixpence at the
close of the meeting.  Adjourned to next Wed-
nesday evening.  Benediction  by  Elder  R.  T.
Burton.
