		    MARY JENSEN, Sec'y.

  The Relief  Society  Conference,  Salt  Lake
Stake, commenced in  the  Council  House, Fri-
day, Dec. 17, 1880, Mrs. M. Isabella  Horne  pre-
siding.  On the stand were  Mrs. Horne's Coun-
selors Mrs.  E.  S. Taylor  and S. M. Heywood,
also Mrs. S. M. Kimball,  Secretary Central or-
ganization R. S., Mrs. E. Howard, Stake  Secre-
tary R. S. and Mrs. B. W. Smith,  Treasurer R.
S., and Mrs. E. B.  Wells  editor  WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.  Meeting opened by stnging "Let Zion
in her beauty rise,"  prayer by  Mrs. E. Howard,
singing "Amid  scenes of confusion," etc.  Min-
utes of former conference were  read and accept-
ed.  Reports from most of the wards in the city
and the settlements in the country.
 Prest.Horne gave instructions about reports, and
said it was necessary  to  have  semi  annual re-
ports, to hand to the brethren  at the April and
October Conferences.  These  could be made out
for the Relief Society Conferences held in March
and September, which could then be prepared in
time  by  the  Stake  Secretary  to  hand to
the Secretary  of  the  first  presiding board.
  Mrs. Lucy B.  Young, who had  just returned
from a visit to the Eastern  States, occupied  the
remainder of the forenoon in giving an account
of her journey. She left Salt Lake City,July 21,
1880: previous to leaving her home in St. George.
President McAllister blest  her, and she had felt
the spirit and  power  of  his  blessing  rest upon
her during her  absence  from  the  valley.  She
visited her relatives and friends in various parts
of the State of New  York, all  of  whom received
her kindly, and  were  desirous of having her  re-
main longer.  She also visited Niagara Falls and
other  places  of  public  resort, and  spent  some-
time in New York City, Buffalo,  Rochester, Sy-
racuse, and other noted places.  Her  experience
in the world led  her  to  believe  that women of
ability, possessing  intelligence  and  a correct
knowledge of  the  principles  of  the  Ever-
lasting  Gospel,  might  do  much  in  re-
moving  the  prejudice  against  our  peo-
ple, were  they  sent out to travel  and lecture.
When it was known that  Mrs. Young was from
Utah, and was a plural wife  of President Brig-


[Column 1]
ham Young, everyone was curious to learn
something of the "Mormon" experience; in con-
versation she found that the most absurd ideas
prevail concerning this people. She was glad to
be among the Saints once more, and wished to
get home to St. George as soon as possible.
	Congregation sang "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah." Prayer by Mrs. E.
B. Wells.
	Afternoon meeting: Opened by singing "Re-
deemer of Israel;" prayer by Mrs. Rachel R.
Grant; sang "We thank thee, O God, for a pro-
phet." Mrs. M. I. Horne, treasurer for the cen-
tral board of Relief Society, read her report. Al-
most every branch in the Salt Lake Stake had
contributed to the celebration on the 24th of
July last. Sister Horne then made some perti-
nent remarks upon present duties and referred to
the prophet Isaiah's saying, "Arouse yourselves,
O ye women of Zion, who are at ease."
	Counselor E. S. Taylor was the next
speaker, she alluded to her recent visit in the
East, and the opportunities she had of testifying
to the truth, and that, according to the promise
made her previous to going away, she had not
been confounded, but had always a word in due
season for every one who had inquired of her
concerning the Latter-day Saints, or their prin-
ciples. Mrs. E. B. Wells occupied a few minutes;
referred to the condition of the young people in
Zion, and the necessity of spiritual as well as
moral culture. Urged the sisters to assist in de-
veloping the better qualities of mind and heart
in the children and also to encourage habits of
industry and economy.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke upon the necessity
of studying to know the duties relating to the
positions occupied by the sisters. Thought each
one should try, and said none were to blame for
not understanding except those who did not try.
She often thought of one of Sister Eliza's re-
marks that people thought poetry flowed
through her, without any effort on her part,
but it was not so, she had to study and study
hard. The Lord gives the ability, but leaves
to us the labor and improvement. When she
was appointed secretary she had thought at
first, it only required her to take the minutes of
the meetings when Sister Eliza presided—now
she could see a great field opened before her view,
in which she was called to labor. She was au-
thorized to keep records of important events,
and that being authoritative, she thought they
would be recorded above,and felt anxious to have
them correct. Said to the sisters honor your
position and it will honor you. Sister Howard
wished the Secretaries to procure blanks, that all
the reports might be uniform in detail, to light-
en and simplify the labor of making up an aggre-
gate report for the Stake. Spoke of her pleasant
visit to the Ladies Conference at Grantsville and
said they were favored with the presence of
Apostle Lyman and President H. J. Grant.
The brass band at that place had honored
the sisters by a serenade on the Saturday after-
noon of the Conference. Sisters Rachel R.
Grant, Maria Carrington and Phebe Woodruff
each made suitable and edifying remarks, Sister
Woodruff relating some of the incidents of her
visit with President Woodruff to Sanpete and
Juab counties, where she had the opportunity of
addressing the Relief Society Conference of San-
pete Stake. At Nephi, President Teasdale had
given out an appointment for her; she went
alone in a snow storm, and found the meeting-
house filled with brethren and sisters. The Lord
certainly blest her with a rich abundance of His
Spirit.
	President M. I. Horne closed with appropriate
remarks, urging the sisters to put into practice
the good principles which had been spoken of.
Sung "Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.
Prayer by S. M. Kimball. Conference adjourn-
ed to the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday
morning, Dec. 18.
	On Saturday morning the Primary Conference
was held, Counselor Camilla Cobb presiding.
	Children sang from their Primary Hymn
Books "Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion." Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne, singing
again "We thank thee O God for a prophet."
Minutes of previous Conference read and ac-
cepted. A few written and some verbal reports
were given. Counselor Miss Annie Davis read
a letter from the President, Mrs. Ellen C. S.
Clawson, advising the children who had work-
ing meetings to make warm comforters
instead of quilts to donate to the Temple. Also
notified them that it was her intention to get up
a fair to which all the different associations in
the Stake would be expected to contribute of the
work of the members. All sorts of fancy and
useful articles, etc., made by both boys and

[Column 2]
girls. Notices would be given in due time in re-
gard to its being held. Mrs. Cobb made some
excellent remarks adapted to the capacity of the
children, for which she possesses a very happy
faculty. Mrs. Horne made closing remarks and
proposed holding the fair in September, as that
would bring it near the semi-annual Conference
and give sufficient time to make it a success.
Sung "Praise God from whom." Benediction by
Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	Afternoon meeting: Conference Y. L. M. I. A.
Dec. 18th, 1880, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding.
Sung, "Now Let us rejoice," prayer by Mrs. S.
M. Heywood, sung, "Come all ye sons of God,"
Minutes of previous conference omitted. Re-
ports from a very few of the wards were read.
The presidents of branch associations were
called upon to report verbally. The 7th, 10th,
11th, 15th, 17th, 19th and Sugar House Wards
were ably represented. Mrs. Hannah T. King
made some happy remarks, in which she spoke
of her having been recently called to occupy the
position of president Y. L. M I. A., in the 17th
Ward. Said it was a dfflcult matter to become
familiarized with new associates; she had sought
the Lord in prayer that he would turn the hearts
of the young ladies towards her. She believed
in a law which was in reality order, rather than
law. She was not an accomplished speaker and
felt it was a high and responsible position to fill,
to preside over and win the hearts of the young
ladies. She meant to keep very close to her
file leaders.
	President Freeze, in the course of her re-
marks observed that the editing of manuscript
papers was a great source of improvement,that it
called out talent which would otherwise never
have been known. She had heard articles read
in the Associations that were excellent. Let us
not shrink from speaking. There is nothing that
can so educate us as the promptings of the spirit
of God.
	Counselor ,Louie Felt said: I know the time
has come to study our religion and put away
light reading. We want to inform ourselves
and become intelligent, that we may be able to
dispense light and knowledge to those who are in
darkness.
	Counselor Clara Conrad, in her remarks, said
she wanted to live so that her influence would
do good, even though she spoke not a word.
Thought mothers should counsel their daughters
to attend their meetings, their everyday duties,
and especially secret prayer.
	President E. S. Taylor called upon the sisters
to make it a special subject of prayer that all ob-
stacles in the way of the progress of these asso-
ciations be removed. Exhorted the young la-
dies to renewed diligence, and made reference to
the prophecies concerning the great events
which are near at hand. Young ladies prepare
yourselves with Bible arguments, and be able to
give a reason for the hope that is within you;
and also strive for intellectual attainments, that
you may have a blending of spiritual and intel-
lectual intelligence. Let every president seek
to the Lord that she may know what to do.
	Counselor Mattie Horne, advised the observ-
ance of the Word of Wisdom, thought that by
observing of commandments we could obtain
blessings. Counseled the young ladies not to
marry outside the Church; said the royal heirs
of God should not marry outside his kingdom.
	President Horne made some appropriate clo-
sing remarks, expressing her deep interest in
the labors of the young ladies, and her great de-
sire for their advancement. Romania B. Pratt,
M. D., was elected Treasurer, Y. L. M. I. A.,
Salt Lake Stake, and each Branch Association
was requested to contribute fifty cents per an-
num, to defray incidental expenses. The Con-
ference was adjourned until March, 1881. A vote
was taken, and it was decided to hold the regu-
lar semi-monthly meeting on New Year's Day.
Sung Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. E. B.
Wells.

