WOMAN'S WORK IN ST. GEORGE.

	We are at present enjoying, for the first
time for some years, a visit from our honored
and beloved sisters, E. R. Snow and Zina D.
Young, of your city, who have been for a few
weeks past in our midst, busily engaged in do-
ing good, benefitting both the living and dead
—laboring in the Temple for the latter, and
meeting with and instructing the former. They
have met with and organized into Primary
Associations the children of each of the four
wards of St. George. This is certainly a step
in the right direction, as those who have the
interest of the young at heart cannot but real-
ize and acknowledge, and these estimable sis-
ters, with their kind, pleasant ways, excellent
instructions, stories and anecdotes, told to the
children in such a simple and telling manner,
will be long remembered for good by the chil-
dren of Southern Utah, and I trust the in-
structions thus received will sink deep into
their hearts, making a lasting impression, that
it may spring up and bear good fruit in the 
years to come.
	Sisters Eliza and Zina certainly have the
spirit of their office and calling upon them, as
all must feel who come under the sound of
their voices, and I think their visit is truly ap-
preciated by many of the sisters. They met
with them in their regular monthly, joint
meeting on Fast day, and effected a Stake or-
ganization for the Primaries, with the follow-
ing named sisters as officers: Julia H. Ivins,
President; Mary Whitehead and Annie Wood-
bury, Counselors; Annie M. Romney, Secre-
tary, and Elizabeth P. Bentley, Treasurer. I
think they have made a very wise selection, as
these ladies are women of experience, ability
and enterprise (three great requisites for these
important positions), and who, moreover, have


considerable influence with the little folks. I
feel confident that under their able management,
together with the officers in the different wards,
that these meetings will prove of incalculable
benefit to both parents and children.
	Sisters Snow and Young met with the young
ladies yesterday, in their Quarterly Conference;
there was a good attendance, and all listened
with pleasure and gratitude to the good in-
structions which were imparted. The Relief
Societies meet in Conference to-day, when an-
other good time is anticipated.
	Sisters Eliza and Zina have not spent any
idle time, as they have visited the settlements
of Hebron, Fort Hamblin, Pinto, Pine Valley,
Santa Clara and Washington in the short time
they have been in this Stake. I believe the
sisters all join in a hearty "God bless them,"
and long may they live to do good.
	KATE.


