COMING AND GOING.
	"So is Christmas coming," observed an in-
credulous person last July, in a vague sort of 
way, as though the reality of the expression was
very questionable. Nevertheless, Christmas has
come and gone once more, and now the bright
glad face of another New Year comes upon us.
	Yes, bright, and glad and happy is the wel-
come face of the year 1881; new now, but soon,
so very soon to be counted old; and then, almost
before we can think, with the past! It is a glad
and welcome time, for many reasons. The be-
ginning of the new year is the blessed time
when all strife and malice, all envyings, bicker-ings and jealousy should be laid aside. When
every one should determine to do more good and
less harm in the coming twelve months than in 
the year just closed. It is a time when all hearts
should overflow with gratitude to the Great
Giver of all good for the kindly care and bless-
ings He has bestowed upon His creatures during
the past year. 
	Especially should the Latter-day Saints sound
praises to the Lord this day for the providential
hand which has been over them. Has He not
wrought out for them a wonderful salvation in 
not permitting their enemies to gain power over
them, notwithstanding the various attempts
which have been made to bring about their
overthrow? Has He not poured out blessings of 
plenty upon His people in all necessary things?
And has He not touched the hearts of those who
have more than sufficient for themselves, so that
they have divided with their less fortunate
neighbors in a manner that is calculated to call
forth a continuance of his mercies? As a people,
surely we have great cause to rejoice in renewed
faith and trust and good determinations. And
who can not recall to mind nameless evidences
of individual blessings received from on high?
	There may be, nay, there are hearts who
mourn even at this blessed time. For each day
must be a time for sorrowing with some of
earth's inhabitants. Let us extend to all such,
appropriate greetings, heartfelt sympathies;
and like true children of our Father, mourn with
those who mourn, as well as rejoice with those
who rejoice.
	When an opportunity for doing good presents
itself, seize it quickly, let it not pass; for time
moves more and more rapidly as year after year
goes by. We shall have little enough time to 
make ready for the things which are coming
upon us. Let us be watchful and prayerful, and 
not be taken unawares. 				LULA.


[Column 1]

