MUSINGS.

	As I sit at home to-day, musing and listen-
ing to the prattle of the children, and hear
their expectations of Christmas, Santa Claus
and well filled stockings, and behold each
bright, happy face, it brings vividly to my
mind the days of my childhood, with other
Christmas times spent in the society of dear
parents and brothers and sisters at home.
	I say, God bless the happy children! let
them enjoy the pure and innocent pleasure of
this blessed holiday; and may God give each
mother wisdom to guide the steps of each little
child by that Holy Spirit which will keep
them in the path of truth, honesty and virtue,
from this happy Christmas on through every
stage of life, that they may become honorable
men and women and live to fulfil the measure
of their creation. Let faith grow and increase
in them with the growth of their bodies, so
they will be able to withstand all disease and
temptation that they may come in contact with
as they journey on through life.
	My mind still opens to the great importance
of parents reading and understanding the laws
of salvation given to us as Latter-day Saints,
to guide our every day life, so they may not go
on blind leading the blind, as it were, but
rather educate themselves, so that light may
fill their minds and shine forth in their homes,
that their children may see as they see and
imitate their good examples. What father
and mother do is perfection in the eyes of chil-
dren.
	As I still muse on, I see children less happy
than those close around me. Children who do
not enjoy the many comforts of home and love
of kind parents; some who are hungry and
scantily clothed, and I notice the eager and
wistful look on their faces as they gaze on the
many beautiful things, which money can pur-
chase to gladden the hearts of children on this
blessed Christmas. When I behold this con-
trast it makes me sad, for I would like to see
all happy together. I would say to all who
have comfortable homes and enjoy plenty, let
us not forget the poor on this coming Christ-
mas; rather let each one go, basket in hand
and help to gladden the hearts and homes of
those who are less fortunate, and not forget to
thank God, the Giver of all good, for the
peace and plenty we enjoy in this our blessed
Mountain Home.
	Oh, the merry, merry Christmas!
		How the children's voices ring;
	Oh, the merry, merry Christmas,
		Says the echo answering
			D. E. DUDLEY.
Clifton, Dec. 20, 1880.


Four things  belong  to  a  judge:  to hear
cautiously, to answer wisely,to consider soberly,
and to decide impartially.-Socrates.[---]


