OF THE REPUBLIC.

	The various organizations of women are re-
quested to issue circulars to their auxiliaries all
over the country, asking that henceforth the
day of our National Independence be celebrated
in a fitting manner by the daughters of the
Pilgrims. Let the women in every school dis-
trict from Maine to Texas, from the Atlantic
to the Pacific, unite in this new departure.
Select at once the woman in your school dis-
trict or town who can best write and speak, fo[-]
the orator of the day, that she may have th[-]
intervening months for thorough preparation.
and thus honor herself and the occasion.. We
have listened to the rehearsal of man's achieve-
ments, and built statues to his memory for
one long century, now let us sing the praises of
the Pilgrim Mothers, and garner from the
leaves of the past, the glowing words and gen-
erous deeds of their daughters. Let us bring
to this "Harvest Home" for the first time in
our history an adequate record of woman's
work. With the Declaration of Independence
in one hand and the 16th Amendment to our
Constitution in the other, let the women of this
nation simultaneously declare their equal in-
terests and their equal rights in the great ex-
periment of a government by the people. As
under the genius of our free institutions the
rights of women are at last being recognized,
her thoughts should be lifted from a narrow
family selfishness into the high and holy chan-
nels of patriotism. On the threshold of the
second century of our national life, let woman
celebrate one watch-night of the republic, one
ante-natal hour of holy musings, councils, aspira-
tions set to the music of a peaceful chorus, with-
out the uncivilized clangor of booming cannon
that has hitherto distinguished the world's great
festivals. With soft music in shady groves let
the voice of woman now be heard, and let her
sons in silence learn her will.
	Let the 4th of July, 1881, usher in a new
day of peace and liberty to all.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON,
	ELIZABETH BOYNTON HARBERT;
	PHEBE W. COUSINS,
	MAY WRIGHT THOMPSON,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
	MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE.
	N. B.—As the above idea emanated from
the brain of Elizabeth Boynton Harbert, and
was first proposed by her in the Woman's Con-
gress just held in Boston, and as she occupies a
central position in the country, let all com-
munications on the subject be addressed to Mrs.
E. B. Harbert, Editor "Woman's Kingdom,"
care Iwter-Oceaa, Chicago, Ill.
	All editors friendly to this proposition are
respectfully requested to give place to the
above announcement in their columns.—N. C.
and B. B.


