MEDITATIONS!
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
		  “The old year’s gone
		  And the new year’s come.”
	A  happy new year to all our readers; yes a
happy new year to all!  And especially to the
poor, the sick and the afflicted; may the new
year open upon them with a brighter, warmer
phase; Father of mercies and God of all, com-
fort;   "the earth is thine and the fullness there-
of,” wilt thou not turn and overturn affairs, in
the revolving year, that a portion of prosperity
may fall on them; that health may be restored
to the sick, prosperity to those long  struggling
with adverse circumstances, poverty and adver-
sity; peace and happiness, or resignation  to the
mourner, and the bereaved.  Send down thy
light and thy truth into every heart that is
honest and desiring to possess it, that each may
be warmed, invigorated, and fertilized by the
invigorating, life-giving power, and principles
of the same; may health and peace, and the
comforts of life be in  the dwellings of the
righteous in the habitations of the Saints of
Latter-days.
	The car of Time rolls on with noiseless ve-
locity, so that we cease to realize it.  We hail
a New Year, we welcome it, into our hearts, and 
into our homes; life appears to take on a  new
phase, our hopes run high; we build, we plant,
we sow we reap, we eat, drink and are  merry.
We marry and are given in marriage,  we take
journeys, we speculate, we get gain, and in a
short time we awake to the fact that the  year
is old! is  passing away, and  behold another
takes its place; and so the sum of life runs up to

[next column]
its awful "Total." It is a time for serious re-
flection, for calling in our thoughts, for looking
over the ledger of daily life, for reviewing the
past, for new resolutions, for improvement, for
looking forward for what is ahead of us,  even
to the grand finale, when “man goeth to his long
home and the mourners go about the streets.”
	These thoughts need not make us sad; it is
only wisdom to familiarize the mind with the
inevitable, in whatever  shape or form it comes,
or is to come. If prosperity, we need some
preparation for it, that we may bear the re-
sponsibility it must bring with it, in a becom-
ing manner; for such have a stewardship to be
accounted for; yes, indeed, one that will surely
be required of them!  If it is poverty and
privation, affliction by sickness or bereave-
ment, for that too we need to be prepared, for
it is a severe school, and we need faith and
resignation, and submission—all are needed,
yet, though under a cloud, let us remember the
sun is still shining  behind  it.  One, who was a
tried being from infancy to the grave, "wrote
that sublime hymn “God moves in a mysteri-
ous way,” and told us, “The clouds ye so much
dread, are big with mercy." How sublime,
how sweet is confidence in God!  Ever let us
try to realize that He is our Father, that
though some of His lessons are very hard to
learn, yet, when learned they advance us to
the “high school,” intended for us, that these
rudimental lessons make us stronger, self-reli-
ant, more capable of endurance, and qualify us
for still higher “forms;” and enable us to walk
“alone with our God.” It is grand to reach
that point when “nothing can touch us far-
ther.” Must we die to attain that desideratum?
Yes, we must die to all diseased feeling, and
lay on the shelf some of our most beautiful,
most cherished feelings, which is as well, for
what can we do with them?—and go forward
in the path of life, common-sense, matter-of-
fact, business-of-life people. With such a tem-
perament not much can touch us!
 In reviewing the past year, I realize the
blessings of the Lord have been over  His peo-
ple, and his blessings descend on the just and
on the unjust.  The catalogue “the world”
exhibits amid these blessings is fearful; war-
fare, anarchy, rebellion, India deluged with the
blood of brave  European soldiers.  Verily
kingdoms are bought dear when they cost such
a price; besides widow’s groans and orphan’s
tears; and next railway horrors of which the
Tay bridge was the climax;earthquakes causing
whole cities to totter, volcanoes throwing out
rivers of burning lava,long and broad,desolat-
ing the country for miles, fires depopulating
whole districts, with their desolating conse-
quences to the inhabitants, and loss  of life;
plagues sweeping off a rising generation in a
few short months.  We, too, have not escaped
here—we have seen our infant population cut
down by a fearful scourge,  nearly whole fami-
lies, and in some cases all taken, and left the
hearth, of home desolate  indeed!  All this
makes a fearful  catalogue; but alas! the half is
not told.  Has there been no balance sheet to
this dark  page of a  year’s history? Yes—bles-
sings without number. The light of heaven still
shines upon us in all its vivifying glory; the sil-
ver moon on still marshals over the azure sphere
in her benign splendor, the stars shine out in
all their twinkling, panting, breathing voices,
saying, here we are, worship us  not, but  wor-
ship Him who placed  us as lamps in the blue,
ether, for, your benefit.  Peace  and plenty
have reigned in our hemisphere, the  peace of
God  has  been with us, and had bound up the
bruised  and broken hearts of the bereaved.
Do we ponder on these things?  Do we lay
them to heart and endeavor to show forth our
gratitude to the Great Giver by walking  con-
sistently  before Him and before  our fellow
creatures?
						 	Dec. 31,1880.
	Here as I write, my  mind  runs back in its
reflections to other days and  other years, when
I ever made a  point of spending  the last honr
of the old year alone, and devoted it  to reflec-
tion;and made such—palpable in notes to each
of the members of my beloved family; thus em-
ployed, I witnessed the departure of the old
year, and the advent of the new; such for years
was my custom, and I find the old habit fitting
close upon me at this present  sitting.  Times 
have changed, I am alone, quite alone - all are 
away. Even at this remote distance of time,
and distance of earthly space; and the mighty
Atlantic rolling between all the  past, I shut
my eyes—I listen and I can hear those thrill-
ing chimes of bells—still can I call up the-
time, the hour, the association of feelings and
ideas with all the vividness of actual presence;
memory, that wonderful gift, is awake, she
opens her cells, long closed, and from them is- 
sue the spirits of that day, and hour, and the
time of old. We hear their voices, the voices
of the young and happy; they come  in our
dreams, but “they are pale in the tomb, in the
winter house," we have bent the red eye over
them, their voices remain in our ears, but we
shall see them no more on earth. These were
ministering spirits of our own flesh and blood,
and made at that time the starlight of our life,
but they, like the year that is past, they too
have passed into eternity, they are with the
blessed of all ages, in the habitation of the just,
made perfect, and with God, the Great Father
of the universal family.
	Hush! Imagination  is busy with me!  I hear
those lovely bells, they have all been raised
ready for the advent peal, and now they ring
out with at first a firing salute, and then float
off into the most joyous music, that at  this still
hour speaks trumpet-tongued to the souls of the
listeners, and each interprets  their language to
the whisperings of their own souls.  It is a 
moment of deep, intense excitement-felt but
never spoken.  The year is  past; it is 1881.  
	Again we say  happy new year to all our,
readers—yes, to the whole human family! May
the enlightening influence of the Spirit of God
move upon this terrestrial planet.  Let us say
with one of old, “Let us fall into the hands, of
God,” but save us from the hands of ourene-
mies.


SUNDAY, Nov. 20, 1880, memorial services
were held in Brooklyn, N. Y. Sermon by 
John W. Chadwick, for Lucretia Mott and
Lydia Maria Child; giving a synopsis of their
life and works, and paying a grateful tribute to
their honored memory.
	SISTERS Eliza and Zina are still in South-
ern Utah, traveling in the settlements, holding
meetings, and organizing the children, etc.
To-day they go to Leeds, from there up the
river as far as Rockport, visiting towns and
settlements upon the way. They had intended
visiting Kanarra and Harmony, but the roads
are so damaged by the storms they will not be
able to do so at present. Had not decided about
returning home.


