HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE show windows have made an elaborate
display this year during the holidays. All the
varieties of children's toys and everything suit-
able and desirable for Christmas and New Year's
gifts could be obtained at reasonable prices. One

[Column 2]

might easily imagine the genius of fairy land
had paid Salt Lake a visit. The little folks have
certainly had an abundant supply this time.
	BIBLE ALMANAC, by J. H. Heman, prepared
for 1881, is a neat little work of 24 pages, price 15 
cents, printed at the Deseret News office. It is
a purely home production, and on that account
should be encouraged. It contains a passage
of Scripture for every day in the year, suitably
selected, besides many others easy for reference.
The preface is short and expressive, and it also
contains several well written essays, and the
usual amount of data concerning the sun, moon, 
eclipses, etc.
	THE HOME Dramatic Club have received
much applause and considerable praise for the
admirable acting in the play of "Pique," which
was selected for the holidays. The piece is par-
ticularly pleasing in all its appointments and
has been very attractive, and drawn good
houses four times in succession. It has been re-
marked by those who have seen the best actors 
in Europe and America that certain parts could
not be played better by experienced actors. Miss
Lottie Claridge as "Raitch" was a complete suc-
cess, also Hebe Wells as "Dymple," and J. D. 
Spencer as "Gill," Miss Nellie Colebrook as 
"Mable Renfrew" looked perfectly the fash-
ionable New York belle, and her hasty marriage 
and being ushered into a Puritanical, New
England home was true to the life. O.F. Whit-
ney as "Matthew Standish" the head of the
household was exceedingly natural. In fact all
did well and deserve due praise and encourage-
ment from the patrons of the drama. 
	WE are glad to announce to our little friends of 
the Primary Associations, that the Tune Book
to accompany the Children's Primary Hymn
Book, is printed and ready for distribution. It 
has been compiled by Sister Eliza R. Snow, who
has collected a number of familiar tunes and ar-
ranged them to appropriate hymns, while others
have had tunes written expressly for them. 
Our little friends will be glad to have a tune
book of their own, and we hope they will learn
the tunes, so that their primray meetings will
be full of joy and singing, for "out of the mouth of 
babes and sucklings, Thou hast perfected praise. 
The Tune Book is the same size as the Sunday
School Tune Book, is bound in cloth, with hand-
some vignette, contains 40 pages of music and
59 tunes. The price will be 40 cents each, and
copies can be purchased at the offices of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Deseret News and Juve-
nile Instructor. Orders from the country will
please remit five cents per copy for postage.
	E. B. F.
	SUNDAY, Dec. 26, was the 80th anniversary of
the birth of Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney, one
of the most illustrious women connected with
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
whose life has been as free from blemish as the
life of any woman who has lived in any age or
time. Several of the sisters called upon her at
the house of her daughter, in the 17th Ward,
where she has been residing for some time, un-
able to leave her room, though she is now free
from suffering, but weak and feeble in body.
The sisters held a meeting in her room which
was presided over by Sister Presendia L. Kim-
ball. "Mother Whitney" is not well enough to
go anywhere to a meeting, and as she enjoys a
spiritual feast more than any other, it seemed to
be in keeping to celebrate her birthday in this
way. Each one present expressed themselves
in a few words of blessing, and many reminis-
ences were recalled by those who had been long
associated with her. She was bright and cheer-
ful and a heavenly spirit and peaceful influence
was over all. Her son-in-law, Elder Isaac
Groo; came in and read the poem addressed to

[Column 3]

her, which we publish, it conveys a very true
and beautiful idea of her estimable life and
character.

