ANNIVERSARY GATHERING.

	Thursday, December 23d ult. was the anniver-
sary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
one of the grandest, noblest men, who ever lived.
It was celebrated in the 16th Ward Assembly
Rooms, with a gathering of many of his old
friends and members of his family, and others
who revere his memory, as the leader of the 
last dispensation. A sumptuous supper was
given at the former residence of Bro. Shadrach
roundy (now deceased), a tried and staunch


friend of the Prophet. The following named
persons sat at the table: President John Taylor,
President Joseph F. Smith, Apostle Wilford
Woodruff, Patriarch John Smith, President
Elias Smith, Father Zera Cole, Bishops Fredrick
Kesler and Jared Roundy, President L. John
Nuttall, Elders Joseph C. Kingsbury, H. K. 
Whitney, Lorin Walker and Wilford Woodruff,
Jr. Ladies: Vienna Jacques, Phoebe Woodruff,
Patty Sessions, Presendia L. Kimball, Mercy
R. Thompson, Bathsheba W. Smith, Jane B. 
Taylor, Mary Ann Taylor, Emmeline B. Wells,
Helen M. Whitney, Mary C. Whitney, Sylvia
Lyon, J. S. Higby, Helen M. Smith, Sarah E. 
Smith, Mary J. Thompson, Eliza Kingsbury,
Emma J. Smith, Jane Kesler, Elizabeth Nut-
tall, Diana Reid, Lucy Smith, Elizabeth Davis,
Rosina Peck and Beulah Woodruff. 
	The party in the meeting-house commenced
at 7 o'clock. The hall was prettily decorated
for the occasion; the portrait of the Prophet
Joseph was hung above the speaker's 
stand. The assembly was called to order
by Bishop Kesler, and the choir sang,
"The morning breaks the shadows flee;" prayer.
was offered by Elder J. C. Kingsbury. Choir
sung, "Mortals awake with angels join," Sister
Presendia then made some pleasing remarks in 
which she referred to the Prophet having taught
her the principle of plural marriage. Joseph
Parry then read the Prophet's "Address to the
Green Mountain Boys." By special request
President John Taylor sang "The Seer," his 
voice ringing out clear and melodious. It brought
back to many present, tender recollections of the
past. This hymn was composed by President
Taylor and was often sung by him in days gone
by, and also by Elder John Kay, who was one
of the sweetest singers in all Israel. Mrs. E.
Davis next read "Two chapters of the Life of
President Joseph Smith," written in blank
verse, by Sister Eliza, Zion's renowned poetess.
Then came a grand march, dancing, etc., etc.
President Taylor made a brief, but feeling ad-
dress. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson read a poem com-
posed by Sister Eliza, and addressed to President
Taylor. President Woodruff made a short
speech, and Mrs. Davis read "The Prophet's 
Address to the Nauvoo Legion." President Jos.
F. Smith made a few appropriate remarks. Mrs. 
Davis brought in the birthday cake, she had pre-
pared, it was handsomely ornamented, and around
one of the pyramids, the words, "Joseph Smith, 
the Prophet, born Dec. 23, 1805." Before mid-
night, prayer was offered by Elder Mosiah
Hancock, and the company dispersed. The
party was an exceedingly happy and pleasant
one. Many old veterans were there and partici-
pated in the enjoyment. The committee may
congratulate themselves on its complete success.


