OBITUARY. 

DIED in the 21st Ward, in Salt Lake City, of
pneumonia, Dr. William Ferguson, aged 79
years, 8 months and 16 days. 
   Dr. Ferguson was born at Dochfour House,
near Inverness, Scotland, March 11th, 1801. He
was educated at the University of Edinburgh,
where he took both the theological and medical
course, with a view of devoting his life to mis-
sionary work in India. Domestic afflictions
having prevented the consummation of this pur-
pose, he accepted the charge of a Congregational
Church in Oxfordshire, England. At the time
of the Anti-Corn-Law agitation, he threw him-
self heart and soul into the work of the League, 
and was the principal writer in the Anti-Bread-
Tax Circular published by the League. The re-
peal of the Corn Laws being accomplished, he
devoted himself to philanthropic efforts on behalf
of the down-trodden English peasantry, and was
so successful in ameliorating the condition of
thousands of them, that he was on more than
one occasion sent for by a committee of the
House of Commons, and a public testimonial was
presented to him as an acknowledgment of his
services to humanity. In 1860 he emigrated to 
America, and during the civil war edited a dem-
ocratic paper in Ohio with energy and fearless-
ness, in the face of mob rule and violence. In 1875
he embraced the gospel of the new and everlast-
ing covenant in Illinois through the preaching of


Elder John Morgan, and immediately emigrated
with his family to Utah, was baptized by Elder
A. F. MacDonald at St. George, and worked on
the Temple during his residence there. He re-
moved to Provo, and then to Salt Lake City,
where he resided until his decease. During the
last two years his mental faculties were much
impaired by old age and affliction, but he depart-
ed in the faith of the Gospel, and in peace with
all mankind.—[COM.

	DIED in Evanston, Wyoming, Nov. 12th, 1880,
of consumption, Mrs. Sarah Elliott Wade,
daughter of David and Margery Quick Elliott,
born at Ithaca, Tomkins County, New York, on
October 23d, 1826; she was the mother of thir-
teen children, nine of whom were living at the
time of her death, one having been killed on the
railroad since her death. She joined the Church
when very young, and shared in the persecu-
tions of the Saints in the early rise of the
Church; was personally acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph. At one time when Joseph
[-]mith was being tarred and feathered by a mob,
[-]child of hers was lying dead and she was
[-]bilged to keep it in her trunk unable to bury it
on account of the terrible persecutions of the
Saints at that time. She was a faithful member
of the Relief Society of this Ward, and held the
office of treasurer up to the time of her demise,
and died in the hope of a glorious resurrection
with the just. May she rest in peace.
	Miss S. MAUD BURTON,
	Sec. Relief Society, Evanston.

	DIED at Clifton, Oneida County, Idaho, Octo-
ber 11th, Lucinda Vanlooen, of old age. Deceased
was born at Loraine, Jefferson County, N. Y.,
August 12th, 1813; was baptized in Upper Cana-
da in 1833, and gathered with the Saints to
Kirtland, Ohio, in 1834, from thence to Illinois,
and emigrated to Utah in 1852. She died as she
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint. She
leaves a husband, eight children, and a large
circle of friends to mourn her loss. She was a
member of our Relief Society.	D. E. D.

	Died at Clifton, Oneida Co., Idaho, June 13,
of congestive chills, Margaret Williams. De-
ceased leaves a husband, eight children and a
host of friends, who have cause to remember her
as a faithful wife, a devoted mother, a good
neighbor and a true Latter-day Saint. She was
a member of our Relief Society, and had served
faithfully as secretary for several years, and set
an example worthy of imitation. She has pass-
ed from death unto life eternal.	D. E. D.


