Emma Joyce Udall
By Levi S. Udall
FIFTEEN minutes prior to the ushering in of the New Year, 1929, Emma Joyce Udall, beloved wife of Joseph Udall, died at the family residence in Eagar, Arizona, following an attack of influenza contracted Christmas Day. She had been in poor health for a number of years and was troubled with a weak heart.
THIS good mother was sixty-six years of age, having been born September 26, 1862, at Centerville, Utah, the daughter of Henry and Ellen Jackson Goldsbrough. The family shortly thereafter moved to Nephi, Utah, where Emma received her early education, and spent her girlhood days. After completing the courses of study given in the Nephi schools, she went to the Brigham Young Academy at Provo which was then in charge of that great educator, Dr. Karl G. Maeser.
ON February 2, 1882, at the age of 19 years, she was married to Joseph Udall in the Endowment House in Salt Lake City, and for two years the happy couple made their home in Nephi, where their eldest child Ellen was born. In 1884 this young couple, with one hundred other families, responded to a call from the leaders of the Church to go to Arizona and assist in colonizing that section of the country. They endured the hardships of a seven-hundred-mile trip, which was made with teams and wagons, and lasted about three months. This long, tedious pilgrimage followed the now famous route across Lee's Ferry on the Big Colorado, which was used by all the early "Mormon" pioneers going to Arizona.
ST. JOHNS was reached in August, 1884, and it became the home of Joseph Udall and family for six or seven years. There they built a good brick house and engaged in farming. In 1890 the family moved to Eagar, where they have since taken a prominent part in the development of that community.
MRS. UDALL was a strong character, a woman of honor and principle?brave and fearless. She was ever responsive to the calls made upon her by her Church, she having served for six or seven years as the first Stake Secretary of the M. I. A., following the organization of the St. Johns Stake in July, 1887. After going to Eagar she served as the first organist of that ward, for nearly ten years until succeeded by her daughter Nellie. She was a counselor in the ward Relief Society for several years, and subsequently for a period of sixteen years presided over that wonderful, charitable organization. During her regime a ward Relief Society hall was erected, and a beautiful ward chapel constructed to which, under her direction, several thousand dollars were contributed. Ever a friend to the needy, an unusual amount of charity work was done. She assuredly lived up to the aims of the organization in assisting the needy regardless of color or creed and gave unsparingly of her time and means both in public and private life.
SHE was ever helpful to and encouraged her husband in performing his Church duties. In 1898 he was called to fill a two-year mission in England and this loyal wife displayed her executive ability and business acumen by successfully looking after their varied enterprises during his long absence, as well as being both mother and father to their six small children; and upon his return, for twenty-three years, she loyally assisted her husband during the period he presided as bishop of the Eagar Ward.
IN civil life Mrs. Udall found time outside her family and Church duties to serve for many years as the first lady postmistress at Eagar; in addition to this she acted as the local registrar of vital statistics, and for three years served successfully as County Fair Commissioner, putting on exhibits at the State Fair which brought considerable credit to herself and Apache County. She was a member of the State Child Welfare Board for several years, and also acted, until the time of her death, as local chairman of the National Better Homes Association.
THIS good woman was the mother of ten children, eight of whom survive her, and it was the privilege of her husband and her living children, four boys and four girls, to be present at her bedside at and prior to the time of her death. She is also survived by three sisters and one brother living in Utah. Twenty-three grandchildren survive of a total of twenty-eight that have been born.
A BEAUTIFUL funeral service was held. Special and beautiful musical numbers were rendered and the floral offerings were many and lovely. The various speakers commented on the untiring energy always displayed by the deceased; her loyalty to family and friends, her artistic talent and love of nature and everything good and beautiful, the wonderful flowers she had each year carefully cultivated and her skill as a gardener and horticulturist; her devotion to her family and service rendered to her husband in being his "eyes" as his eyesight has been poor, due to an accident in his early married life; her loving care of the motherless grandchildren, three of whom have been reared by her as tenderly as their own mother could have done. Her friends left behind are legion and to her husband and children she is a divine gift.