Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth
Because my mother was Stake President of the Relief Society the General Board members were apt to stay at our house during the conferences. I liked these times, a little perhaps for the fried chicken and ice cream and the lessened discipline, but more for the presence of the ladies themselves. Most of them were a little stout with pleasant, quick voices and their skirts rustled beautifully, and the information they gave of the outside world was stimulating and exciting to my rural ears.
One of the Board members I remember best of all. She was Mrs. Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth. While I held her in as much awe as I did the others, yet I was more at ease in her presence. Not so long ago, my mother had told me, Mrs. Farnsworth had lived in the neighboring town of Beaver. In fact I had often seen the tall, red brick house, facing the town square, where the Murdocks still lived, and I had dear friends who spoke of "Aunt Julia" as familiarly as I did of my aunts. Too, her father had been a man whose name we held in honor, and I had heard interesting stories of how Mrs. Farnsworth lived in a huge house in Salt Lake?a city I might visit some day if I were very good.
A good many years passed before I was to see Mrs. Farnsworth again. When I saw her, her beautiful dark hair had lost its color, but her brown eyes were warmer and brighter against their silver background. She was as erect, as gracious, and as great a lady as I had remembered her and it is not often that a child's conception ever finds such realization. About her in the sunlit living room in Struval Park were numbers of new books, histories and biographies, which she was reading. There were her diaries, too, uniform volumes in which she wrote every day. I asked rather tremulously if I might see inside one, but she closed the book and told me with almost a blush that she sometimes misspelled words.
Julia Murdock Farnsworth, born in the bleakness of a Utah County winter (though there was only Fort Provo then), was the only daughter of John R. Murdock, and from her mother, Almira Lott, and her father she acquired an intense patriotism and love of family. Her mother's people had been the Clapps, who had come to the new world in 1630 with no less a person than John Winthrop, and Captain Clapp had been the Keeper of the King's Keys at Boston port for twenty-five years. Her father was of old Vermont stock and had been influenced to join the Church by the brilliant Parley P. Pratt. John R. had been one of the youngest boys to join the Mormon Battalion. When he left San Diego in 1847 he carried on his back a half bucket of wheat?worth more than its weight many times in gold. He was a tall, handsome man, with keen blue eyes and dark brown hair, and when he rode one of his fine horses, ladies who had seen something of the world were apt to sigh and say that he looked like one of the Virginia cavaliers of colonial days.
But John R. had little time for cavalier pursuits. He crossed the plains all of thirteen times and once he set forth alone to carry a personal message from Brigham Young to Colonel Kane. Another time he had to leave young Julia at Christmas time to guide a party of emigrants through the deep snow into Salt Lake. A girl could carry her head high with a father like that!
Julia's girlhood was far different from that of the average young woman's of Utah. Her mother was not robust and upon the only daughter fell the responsibility of the older woman. The father, whose position made it imperative that he do a great deal of entertaining, was also a man of social tendencies and magnetic personality. When Julia was twelve, he moved to Beaver, near Fort Cameron, and the great of the army, the State, and the Church, were entertained at the Murdock home. At one time Julia was hostess to that glamorous person, General Phil Sheridan. Winter times she often went to Salt Lake with her father, who was a member of the territorial legislature. It was on one of these occasions that she danced several times with Ensign Evans, who was later to be Rear Admiral of the United States navy. The salmon colored poplin that she wore that night was long a treasured gown, and it is doubtful if another girl at the dance could vie with her dark beauty and vivacious charm.
Just a stone's throw from the Murdock house was another tall home of somber hue and in it lived young Philo T. Farnsworth. He had been Julia's best friend since she was twelve years old. "We always intended to marry," she said, "and as soon as we were able, we did. There was never any one else for either of us." Julia taught school in Beaver for a year or two until her young man had established himself strongly enough to take a wife, and few people have been happier with each other than they were during the whole of their married life. Marriage only heightened her colorful activities. Her husband was also a member of the legislature, and while they were still young, he left Beaver to manage the Horn Silver mine?a household word then in Utah. Since that day, Mr. Farnsworth's connection with the mines of the West is a part of Utah's history. MOTHERS OF OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS -_ might have chosen to have spent her days in social entertainment, for her husband's position, her home, her grace, and charm uniquely fitted her for such a life. But she was too intellectual a woman and her love of religion was too strong. The Julia who had gone by team to Salt Lake in the dead of winter that she might receive her endowments at the time of her marriage was never allowed to change into a woman who viewed life as a light matter. It was during her younger days that the fight for woman's suffrage was the hottest. She followed with interest the careers of Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Shaw, and the Carey sisters, and gave much of her time and resources to the cause. NE of her favorite diversions was writing historical events for the Woman's Exponent. Her last article, if memory serves me right, was called "Patriotic Phases of the Mormon Battalion." She assisted in the present organization of the Mormon Battalion, and is a charter member of the Daughters 361 of the Pioneers. But more than anything she enjoyed her work with the Relief Society. Julia had been a secretary of that organization when she was fifteen, and she was to spend many years traveling about the towns of the intermountain region. Automobiles were almost unheard of in the early days of her Board service. OW, she has retired from active work, but her life is still full and rich. Old friends and relatives are always welcome at her home, and she keeps in touch with the activities of her children and nieces and nephews. Her children and friends are scattered, but she writes to them with the ease and regularity of more quiet days. Her diary, too, she still keeps, and when she will allow it to be read, it will be among the interesting and valuable Utah documents. Her interest in reading?poetry, fiction, and history, has not dimmed. She has a storehouse of rich memories and years ahead made pleasant by the interest she has cultivated throughout her busy years.