Bathsheba Blackburn Grundy
IT is a pleasant summer afternoon and a plump, serene woman, scarcely looking her three-score and thirteen years because of her black hair only faintly streaked with grey and her bright grey eyes, is rocking in an easy chair and talking to her daughter. Already the afternoon shadows are purpling the walls of Mt. Timpanogos, as the older woman glances from them to her daughter, who is writing in a church record.
"MY chief interest?" Mrs. Bathsheba Blackburn Grundy pauses in her rocking, "Why, religion, of course. What else could it be?" And she turned again to the darkening shadows.
AND truly it was. Religion was early a ruling power in her life?not the narrow religion of her day that read the scriptures on Sunday afternoon in the dim light of drawn shades, but that religion of Christ's which is to visit the fatherless in their affliction and to keep one's self unspotted from the world.
NATURALLY, religious thoughts were early fostered in her. Had not her father made the ox team journey of 1849? And her mother, Mary Lane, had been left an orphan at fourteen, on the Plains, by the ravaging cholera. It was this same Mary who two or three years later made the everlasting covenant with Elias H. Blackburn, even then an ardent young man displaying the powers that were to make Patriarch Blackburn revered throughout the Church.
SCARCELY was their honeymoon over when he was called to colonize Provo on a clear little river fringed with willows and Indian tepees. But the thoughts of the first home remained with him, and one day he and Mary made the two days journey to visit old friends in Salt Lake, George A. Smith and his good wife, Bathsheba. The journey proved too strenuous for young Mary, and that night she gave birth to a premature girl who must needs be christened Bathsheba, "because she was born in my home."
YET the frail child grew into a sturdy girl in whom piety was engendered young. When she was but two years old she was sitting on the hearth watching the bright tongues of flame leap about a black kettle of steaming water for the evening meal. Without warning the rod that held the kettle collapsed without warning, and the scalding water fell over the helpless child. All the medical aid which the pioneer community could afford was summoned, but Bathsheba continued to writhe in agony. As a last resort the girl was taken to Grandmother Goff, who used her homemade salve and called in the elders. Within a few days the child played about the cabin?unscarred.
NOT much later her father was called by Brigham Young to fulfill a mission in England. Then followed periods when Bathsheba had nothing to eat save bread, and very little of that. But they must rely on Providence, and one night a young man in some way connected with the family brought rice, all the rice the family could eat. The little girl lived happily for days in memory of that sumptuous meal.
SOON after Elias Blackburn's return from England his old spirit of pioneering flamed. This time he moved his family to Minersville, a journey of many days in a covered wagon with Bathsheba and her brothers and sisters starting ahead, barefooted.
IN Minersville troubles were only beginning. Bathsheba, still barefoot, ran through the brush, gathering bits of wool, which she was later to wash, card, spin, and make into a dress for winter. Then there is another eating story that is a classic in its way?the story of a pregnant mother who stooped to grand larceny in order that she might not starve.
FATHER BLACKBURN had garnered a few potatoes for seed purposes and buried them deep in the ground beneath layers of earth, straw and sticks. One night when he was gone, Mary, not so fresh and buoyant now, kept Bathsheba awake after the other children had gone to bed. Mary gave the girl some kind of spade and told her to dig until she found the potatoes. In the light of the dying embers the mother ate two roasted potatoes and the girl one. "I'm starving to death, and there aren't enough for the children," Mary had whispered when her girl had looked wide-eyed at the prizes. Years later, Mother Grundy told her children, "That potato was the best thing I ever ate."
DUTIES naturally developed early, and at sixteen or seventeen she was married, on December 9, 1872, to one Clayton Grundy in the Endowment House at Salt Lake by Daniel H. Wells. She made her vows in a white lawn dress of which she was inordinately proud. Her trousseau consisted of a bed, two pillows, and some quilts.
FROM then on the girl was lost in the pioneer woman. With the increasing duties of her household, she assumed new Church responsibilities. She was first vice-president of that greatly discussed experiment, the Retrenchment Society; then ward president of the Relief Society until Clayton decided that Loa, over in Wayne County, was a better place in which to try his fortune.
IT was here in Loa that she was to spend the most pleasant years of her life and really to find herself. The first position Loa offered her was that of ward teacher, but in a decade or so, after serving as president of the Y. L. M. I. A., she was asked to head the stake Relief Society. This position she kept for twenty-one years?until May, 1926, less than two years before her death. So zealously and faithfully had she worked that she became, not merely the most loved woman of her town, but she received also the distinction of being declared the best stake president in the whole of Zion.
THERE was not a baby born in Loa, nor a sick child, nor a death bed where her soothing hands and serene presence did not minister. "When we would waken in the morning and call her," her daughter said, "we would go wild with joy if we found her home." Day after day, when the burden was too heavy for her children, she would carry food and clothing to the dark homes of suffering, often waiting for the cover of darkness lest the town should know to whom charity was being measured.
YET even as she worked for her people, she found time for her family and herself. It was a common occurrence to see her at midnight, mending and cleaning clothes so that the children could go decently clad to school and church. Of all the Church magazines, the Era was her favorite; she never neglected the reading of it. Printed sermons held a special joy for her. After she died, her daughter found great bundles of them, mostly clipped from the Deseret News; and there was one placed in a letter to be sent to a son in distant Canada.
NEITHER did she neglect the temporal side. She liked good books, being especially fond of the drama. Movies failed to interest her, but she could always be tempted from home by a play she thought worthy. As a girl she liked to dance and attend parties?a social desire that never left her. She was willing at any time to help in the ward organizations. It was her recreation, her avocation, to do this; almost to the last she attended the Loa socials.
BETTER times had come to the Grundy family; and, luckily, the bleakness of pioneer years had not killed her love for the beautiful. We can see her now?a plump, matronly woman with kind gray eyes and energetic walk?going about her civic and church duties in a neat, black silk dress, with a fine lace collar, gold brooch, and watch. In her wardrobe always were a "dressy hat," a pair of smooth kid gloves, and fine black shoes. She believed women should keep not only their minds but their bodies attractive.
IN keeping with the cheerful tenor of her life were her last days. Death held no fears; it was the great adventure for which she had lived her seventy-three years. During her illness in September, 1928, just a few months after her husband's death, she discussed the matter calmly with her children. "You are none of you to weep, neither are you to harbor sad feelings," she told them. And when the children of the town came to bring her flowers, she smiled and told them goodbye as if she were going on to the next town. The hymns she chose for her funeral were like her days: "Come, Come, Ye Saints," "Come, Let Us Anew Our Journey Pursue," and "I'll Go Where You Want Me To Go, Dear Lord." On that bright September day when she died, one of the finest women of the old order passed on. Relying on faith, she had lived all her life without rest. She believed implicitly in the doctrines of the Church and the teaching of its leaders. She often said that she strove for the happy medium in all things; but in the hearts of the people with whom she lived there was no medium?for she had reached the heights.