Notes from the Field
Minidoka Stake:
IT is with a feeling of sincere sorrow that we must record the death of one of our very able stake secretaries. This sad information was conveyed during the last month in the tidings of the death of Sister Lavinia Berlin, for many years secretary of the Minidoka stake Relief Society. Sister Berlin was a woman of rare ability, full of the true Relief Society spirit; she was ever valiant in her devotion to that cause, and in addition to this she was public spirited along all lines and took an active part in the community's educational and social advancement. In addition to her Church and her public service, she was the mother of a family, and made in this respect her very valuable contribution to the Church and the state. The General Board of Relief Society wishes to extend to the stake in which she resided, and to her family in particular, most sincere condolence in the passing of this beloved woman.
San Francisco Stake:
SOME interesting tidings were received in the office from the San Francisco stake Relief Society. The sisters of the Dimond ward in this stake write us most delightfully of the visit of Mrs. Joaquin Miller, who was the guest at the literary class of the Relief Society in this enterprising little ward. The class leader, Mrs. Maude Robinson, visited Mrs. Miller at her home, which is in the Dimond ward of Oakland. Mrs. Robinson had wished to have a more intimate knowledge of the life of the Western poet, Joaquin Miller. Mrs. Miller was very much pleased to know that the Latter-day Saint women were studying the poems of her husband, and upon the invitation of Mrs. Robinson, she came to the meeting on Tuesday in March, and gave a talk on Joaquin Miller. Among other things which she read were "Columbus," "The Passing of Tennyson," "Twilight at the Heights," "Juanita," and others. Before reading the poems she explained the conditions and the circumstances which had prompted the author to write the poems which were read. Mrs. Miller spoke of her husband as having a most merciful and charitable spirit, feeling this great compassion for everyone. He loved nature and he loved God, and endeavored to live close to both.
MRS. MILLER is a very highly cultured woman, very cheerful and reads with a feeling of so much appreciation of the spirit of the work that she greatly impresses her audience. She was eighty years and one day old on the Tuesday she appeared before the Relief Society. The secretary of the Dimond ward writes: "We were very happy to have Mrs. Miller with us. She told us so many things about her husband's home life. She was very greatly surprised to hear particulars of the Relief Society, that it had been organized so long, and that there were so many women enrolled." This was certainly a delightful experience for the sisters of this enterprising ward in the San Francisco stake, and is an indication of the way the work of the Relief Society is spreading and winning recognition from the most highly cultured people.
California Mission:
THERE is much interest shown relative to the educational program of the Relief Society. An interesting letter came from Hayden, Arizona, in which it seems great interest is manifest. The meeting held on the anniversary of Relief Society was very successful. Two talks were given on the historic material of the Relief Society. One talk was on the history of the organization of the Relief Society, and the other on its aims and accomplishments. These talks were given at the sacrament meeting on Sunday, March 16, 1930, and reached a very wide group of people. On Tuesday the regular anniversary program was carried out and a delightful hour spent.
St. Joseph Stake:
THE St. Joseph stake held its annual class leaders' convention in the Fall of 1929 at the Thatcher Church House. It was an all day session beginning at 10:30 a. m., with community singing. In response to the roll call which followed, there were 9 stake officers present, 20 class leaders, 107 visiting teachers, 49 members and other officers, bringing the total to 185 interested in the group. In the work which followed in the various class departments, the brethren were greatly interested. The first department, visiting teachers' topic, the subject Tithing, discussed by Brother Spencer Kimball; the theology lesson, subject The Book of Mormon, was given by President Harry L. Payne; the literature lesson, The Life of Karl G. Maeser, was given by Brother Monroe H. Clark; the social service lesson, taken from The Child: His Nature and His Needs, was given by Brother Wesley Taylor. This is a very fine innovation to make, as it gives the sisters an opportunity of getting the viewpoint of the brethren on the very important work which is the subject matter of Relief Society study. A delightful complimentary luncheon by the stake board was served at 12:30. At the one o'clock session the opening musical number was "For the Strength of the Hills." The afternoon session was more in the nature of a real community meeting, and the flower show and art exhibition held in connection with the county fair was the subject for much congratulation. During the afternoon, President Harvey L. Taylor gave a very delightful lecture on "Home and Family Life." The subject was handled in an educational and inspirational manner, and was most suggestive to the Relief Society workers assembled.
Tooele Stake:
ON February 13th, the new Tooele stake Relief Society entertained at a social for Sister Maggie W. Anderson, retiring stake president, who has served in a Relief Society stake capacity for 25 years. Her counselor, Sister Mary A. Barrus, was also a guest. They were each presented with a beautiful brooch as a token of appreciation. At the Union Meeting in March, after the class work had been conducted, the wards of the stake arranged for a very delightful testimonial for the retiring sisters. An excellent program was rendered and the two ladies, with Sister Mary E. Halladay, who still retains her position as counselor to the new president, were made the recipients of a lovely handbag, after which refreshments were served to those present. These two delightful entertainments were very successful.
Taylor Stake:
THE Social Service Class Leader from the Taylor stake writes: "For several reasons it is practically impossible for many of our mothers with young children to attend our Tuesday afternoon meetings. We felt badly about this, inasmuch as we realized that the young mothers were missing the information that would help them greatly in rearing their children. Consequently we decided to organize an evening class, calling it a 'Mothers' Extension Class.' In this we would review the text book The Child: His Nature and His Needs, and other material helpful along the same lines. These classes have been organized in five of our six wards, and wherever the work has been accomplished in the classes the attendance has been large and enthusiastic. We have also been greatly interested in health work among the children. We haven't easy access to baby specialists, so we have encouraged the mothers to seek the information available in many of our current publications, and to endeavor as far as possible to put the fine suggestions that are made into practice. We have been very successful in this and feel that much good has been accomplished among the children. We are trying to do some practical things through our Social Service Department.
South Davis Stake
ON Saturday, June 7th, was held the season's closing Union meeting of the South Davis Stake Relief Societies. The auditorium of the Bountiful chapel was well filled. The eight wards were each represented by nearly one hundred per cent. The invitation to the General Board was accepted by President Robison and Sisters Baxter and Irvine. Sister Layton of North Davis and her counselors and Sister Laura Hansen of Granite Stake were also present.
AT the close of a delightful address by President Robison, Sister Effie P. Eldredge said that it was due to an earnest plea made by Sister Robison to the societies five years ago that a campaign for beautifying their gardens was inaugurated in the stake. In a gracious speech of love and appreciation for her inspiring counsel, the stake president then presented Sister Robison with a lovely basket of delphiniums and daisies.
ANOTHER interesting feature of the meeting was the roll call of ward teachers by Counselor Clara S. Rose. She asked all those who had ever been ward teachers to stand. Practically every woman arose. Those who had served less than five years were then asked to be seated. This was continued, until at the call for forty-five years, only one dear, little sister was on her feet. She, Sister Mary Frances Cook, has served continuously for forty-six years as a Relief Society Ward Teacher. Sister Mary Christensen has served for forty-five years, and Sister Susan Page, for forty-two years. Sister Polly Grant and twelve other sisters who were unable to be present at the meeting have served for over forty years. Sister Baxter gave a splendid discourse on the work of the Relief Society ward teacher. Sister Irvine spoke briefly on value of labor. At the close of the meeting the folding doors into the amusement hall were opened and a magnificent flower show. The surprising and beautiful picture was made more enchanting by strains of music. An orchestra on the flower-banked stage played continuously during the remainder of the afternoon. Stake President Robinson and his counselor, Brother Clark, joined the group at this time. Punch and cakes were served to all who could leave off gazing at the flowers long enough to partake. Each ward had a large table for its display. There were six first and six second prizes offered. The judges, Messrs. Bert, Reading and Gregory felt that one bunch of poppies deserved special recognition. They personally gave an extra prize to that bouquet. Awarding prizes in a floral contest is as difficult as it is delightful. One could not but feel that the judges were entitled to sympathy as well as envy in their task. Each ward received at least one of the thirteen prizes. North Farmington, the smallest ward in the stake, received the award for the most artistic display. Only experts could have reached a decision on this question. To the laity all were bewilderingly gorgeous and charming. The decision of the judges was accepted by all in the true "Relief Society Spirit," with the utmost friendliness and good will.
THE flower show was an excellent object lesson in effort, showing the results of labor, the development of artistic taste, and co-operation. The exhibit was made more perfect by the generosity of the Miller and Lund Floral companies, who decorated the stage and hall lavishly, and to the orchestra. The orchestra, sponsored by Professor Whitman, its president, was conducted by Mr. Cecil Carr, with Mrs. Dorothy M. Mitchell as accompanist.
THE visitors soon discovered how utterly inadequate is the average vocabulary to express one's emotions at such a time. Meeting of old friends, sweet strains of music, all the flowers of one's fondest dreams, partaking of the spirit of the Lord in association with fellow workers combined to make this afternoon one of unforgettable pleasure to all.
South Sanpete Stake
The Sterling Ward Relief Society has won many compliments by successfully presenting for the stake the "Bible Mothers' Pageant." The beautiful scenes were enhanced by the accompaniment of appropriate music and songs. The three Relief Society women (shown in the picture with their granddaughters) who have been members of the Sterling Ward for more than fifty-two years, appeared in the opening scene of the pageant, dressed in white.
Three women who have been members of Sterling Relief Society over 52 years (First scene of the pageant).