[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Then and Clark]

Then—and Now! Sadie Ollerton Clark AST June my husband, David, our youngest son, and I took a brief vacation from the coastal plains of Texas. We had a happy reunion with friends in Utah, picked up Reid, another son who had just finished a school term at the State university, and turned the green Chevrolet south to Arizona, over the Grand Canyon bridge. We had planned on one more cool evening before we faced the heat of the Salt River Valley, and thought it would be a treat to the boys to stay overnight on the north rim of the canyon. But after an afternoon of climbing and sightseeing, both boys declared they would rather go on. It would be cooler to ride through the desert at night, they said, and we could sleep comfortably at Flagstaff. "Flagstaff is such a long way," I protested. "It will take us all night to get there." "It is just a four or five-hour drive," declared our eldest. "We can be there before midnight." Knowing from past experience he could outargue me, and also that he was generally right, I found my place in the back seat of the car. We drove through the beautiful meadows of the Kaibab just as the sun was shedding its last rays. On one side of the road we could see deer and cattle grazing together, and on the other, a stately stag posing on a cliff, as if for a picture. Then, as my husband took my hand, I knew that he, as well as I, was seeing this scene twice—now, and as it looked twenty-four years ago when he Page 754 brought me, his bride, to this lovely spot for our honeymoon. The mountains and pastures looked just the same. The deer and cattle together could have been an identical picture. But on that turn of the road where one white-tailed doe bounded lightly into the forest we remembered a band of twenty-five bucks. We had surprised dozens of the delicate little creatures who had given us startled glances and darted away. Either not so many deer, I thought, or they keep hidden better. And I looked in vain for the whitetailed, black squirrels which I remembered were formerly everywhere. The moon was coming up as we left the great forest and _ started down the historic hill to the desert. Twenty-four years ago we would not have dared cross it at such an hour. Then, we had looked down upon the same scenes—the interminable range of low, red mountains so symbolic of this country, with the only landmark in all those endless desert miles a low rock house at the foot of the hill. My thoughts traveled backward.... Leigh and I started down that rocky trail which (nearly a quarter of a century ago) served for a road, we saw a car near the rock house and two men, probably a quarter of a mile away, climbing toward us. As they came closer they hailed us, and we looked to our water supply, for we thought they would surely need a drink. But as THEN—AND NOW We approached them they waved a small canteen at us and swore mildly. "Wouldn't you know it—just a couple of kids! Where on earth are you heading for?" "Flagstaff, and on to Phoenix." "Flagstaff!" One of them sat weakly on the tunning board while the other cried, "Take a fool's advice and turn back. You will never make it." They told us their story. They had been stuck in the sand, time after time, and had dug themselves out with their bare and blistered hands. They had been four days crossing the desert, and when they reached the rock house they had had to abandon their car because their gasoline supply was exhausted. We talked to them a few minutes, but assured them we were going on. They refused our offer of water and continued their climb, shaking their heads, while we jolted down over the sharp rocks of the old wagon road. This was not the first time we had been discouraged. The day before, a few miles out of Kanab, we had partially broken a spring. The Owner of a combined livery stable and garage sold us a used one, but when we told him we intended to cross Lee's Ferry he was surprised. "Why didn't you go by way of California?" he asked. "You'll never make it this way." We explained that we had intended going another route. In fact we had been in Yellowstone Park the previous week, and before we dared start for the Pacific Coast we had telegraphed for advice on getting into Arizona from California. Our answer had been to avoid California 755 as Arizona had a quarantine against California cars in June of 1924 because of a raging epidemic of hoof and mouth disease. Cars had been held up at the bridges for weeks, and there was no relief in sight, so we had decided to try Lee's Ferry. Our adviser was still pessimistic. He said we would get stuck in the sand, that he had taken a party to the Ferry just a few days before, and that he charged fifty dollars for the trip, but after these people had seen the road they had given him one hundred dollars. But we couldn't afford even fifty dollars. It had taken practically every cent we had to spare to buy that spring for the car. We weren't afraid, but we hated to appear too self-confident, so we left him, saying we would go on to the canyon and decide what to do then. There was no hotel at the north rim in 1924, so we camped out. The business of the canyon seemed to be centered in a big, log store and post office. Just after dark we walked toward it. Coming through the windows we heard strange and unearthly sounds of music, accompanied by weird shrieks and wails. Curiously, and a little frightened, we pushed Our way into the big room and watched a man engaged in one of the favorite pastimes of the day— working the dial of a home-built radio and trying to find every station he could reach. It was my first encounter with a radio! LEIGH talked to some of the men gathered there. When they learned we were planning to go across Lee's Ferry they looked at us in amazement. I don't recall that they actually told us not to try to 756 go, but one after another started telling some pretty tall stories, or so they sounded to me. I can picture one of the men now, long and lean, wearing high-heeled boots and Stetson hat and faded overalls. He waved his hand toward the great chasm and pointed out some dim and flickering lights from the blackness beyond. "See those lights?" he said. "Well, last summer an old party come here late in the afternoon—him and his wife in a big Packard limousine with a Negro chauffeur. 'They turned up their noses at our accommodations here, but decided to spend the night in one of the cabins. When it was dark enough to see the lights, the man asked where they were coming from, and I told him they were from E] 'Tovar, the big hotel on the south rim. "How far is it across?' he says. "*Thirteen miles,' I says. "He turned to his wife and said, 'Let's go over for dinner and stay there.' "Well, we all thought he was joking, so we all chipped in and said, "Yes, why don't you? It's an easy drive, only thirteen miles,' and so on. We couldn't understand how ignorant a feller could be about distances out here. But when we saw they were actually taking us serious and were putting their bags in the car we changed our tune. We told him he couldn't drive to the other side that night. It was 135 miles of no roads at all and he couldn't carry enough gas in that big Packard to get him over there. "Well, this old guy had taken us serious at first, and now for a while he thought we were joking. When he found out we meant it, he got 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948

 stubborn and accused us of trying to make them stay in this wild place. We finally persuaded him to fill his tank and take five gallons of gas extra. "But this old boy, he had an awful time. He made it to the Ferry all night, but the next day he ran out of gas. There wasn't a chance of anyone coming along that road who could help him, so he left his wife and the colored man and started to walk. He walked all day, lost in those hot, dry hills, but finally found an Indian camp, and bought some kerosene. It took him all the next day to get back to the car, and another day to get to the Little Colorado, to a filling station. They had tun out of water and were nearly dead when they finally reached El Tovar. He said all he wanted to do was to get out of this forsaken country and he would never come back. He had enough of western scenery to last him all the rest of his life!"' All the men laughed and several recalled the circumstances. Others had more stories to tell, but Leigh and I said nothing. The next morning we took a last look at the magnificent gorge and started back through the Kaibab. At Jacob's Lake, Leigh stopped the car and asked, "Which way?" I answered, "Don't be silly. We've got to get home." "Hail, oh, hail to Arizona!" sang my husband as we drove through the wonderful Kaibab Forest to the top of the hill. "Jumping off place," I called it. It was there we had met the two men. We were soon on the desert, trying to follow a poor semblance of a road. It was never too clearly defined. Sometimes we just drove south, but sooner or later we found the trail. The year 1924 was unusually dry, and there wasn't a green plant anywhere. Off in the distance, not far from the rock house, we saw a herd of wild buffalo. They looked weak and disheartened from lack of food and water. We wondered if they would be alive by August.
WE were stuck in the sand several times, but Leigh had had foresight enough to bring a shovel. We would put brush under the wheel, dig a little, and the famous pulling power of the old 1917 Dodge would get us out of that hole. Late in the afternoon we knew we were nearing the river, as we could see signs of green, which could be cottonwood trees. Just before we reached the Ferry we came onto a most interesting scene. In one sand area were hundreds of balanced rocks and peculiar formations. Delightedly, we took pictures. Then on a sandstone cliff we saw a carved date—1879.
"Grandfather Noble came over this road about that date, when he moved his family to Arizona," said Leigh.
The ruggedness of the country, the silence and absence of any life made me wonder if we were the first humans to travel this road since!
But at the Ferry we were received casually enough. The man who collected our dollar said he ferried a car across every few days, and saw no hardships ahead. It was a thrill to put the car on the historic, old Ferry. I tried to ask questions about the history of the place, but our pilot didn't seem anxious to talk,
although he did tell us that a few years before the cable broke and the boat got out of control. I wondered if the passengers had been asking too many questions at the time.
The green cottonwoods and willow trees gave a grateful shade to the hot country. We saw snatches of gardens and fruit trees, but the ferryman's business was to get us across the river, which he did, with dispatch. We climbed "Lee's Backbone," the rocky hill on the south side of the river, about sunset. Leigh recalled his mother's stories about crossing this road as a young girl. Her father had been sent by the Church as a bishop to a small Arizona town, and they had traveled these wearisome desert miles by team and wagon. It took them a month, and one of the nightmare spots of the trip had been the climb up "Lee's Backbone.
We blessed the Dodge for its comparative speed and endurance, and drove on about ten miles, congratulating ourselves on making the terrible journey with so little trouble. Then, as it was beginning to get dark, we made our camp.
In those days there were few road maps, and for some reason, probably because the people who had tried to frighten us had nearly always emphasized the danger of the north side of the Ferry, we thought we were practically to Flagstaff. Because the air was heavily loaded, Leigh threw away our big can of water, and we lay there in that wilderness, listening to the coyotes howling and promised ourselves we would sleep in a hotel the next night.
I suppose it was because we thought we would surely get somewhere soon that made the next day so long. It seemed almost endless. The rocks of the "jumping-off place" hill had cut into our tires and we had to stop and patch one every hour or so. The road wasn't so bad, but it didn't seem to lead any place. Once we came upon some fresh wagon tracks, and followed them twenty miles, only to find that they turned around and came back over the same ruts. Forty miles lost! We put a few rocks in the road to discourage the next traveler from making our mistake, and went on. But our water supply was running low and we bitterly regretted leaving the big can behind.
Late that afternoon we reached the "Little Colorado" trading post. The river was dry, but the store was open. A woman waited on us, and expressed no surprise at seeing us. She allowed us only one canteen of water for ourselves and the car. We decided to drive on, no matter how long it took us, when we heard the now tragically familiar sound of another blowout. In disgust, Leigh pulled off the road. "I can't fix another one tonight," he said wearily. "We will just camp here and go on in the morning.
We put up the cot. There was only a swallow or two of water left in the canteen, and we laughingly made a ceremony of drinking it. Then we lay down to the most fantastic dreams. They were all about water. We were swimming in it, sailing on it, but when we reached for a drink it was gone.
We were awakened from this uneasy slumber by the sound of a car passing us, and we thought we heard
someone laugh. We sat up in bed and looked about us. It was barely light, but Leigh recognized the place. We had made our bed in a triangle of grass which marked a junction of three roads—one west to Flagstaff, one east to Albuquerque, and the northern one we had traveled!
I had fallen asleep as my tall son drove swiftly across the same old desert on well-paved roads, and I was awakened by a display of neon signs and flashing lights.
"This is the junction," Reid said. "It will be in Flagstaff in a few minutes."
"The junction!" I cried. "I remember this place. And I'm thirsty!"
Then I smiled, a little embarrassed, even after all these years.
"If there had been a few lights twenty-four years ago we wouldn't have been caught in such a predicament," I explained, mostly to myself. "But what time is it?"
It was just four hours since we had left Jacob's Lake.
"It's too short a time even to realize where we've been," I said.
"Would you rather have it the way it was before?" jibed my youngest.
Would I? Well, I'll have to admit I appreciate all the comfort I can get when I travel these days. But take twenty-four years from my age and give me the same boyish companion, and I would still be thrilled to face the unknown. For if you never get off the paved highway, and can make a month's journey in four hours, where is the excitement, or the fun, or the adventure?