[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Theology The Apostolic Colton]
LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
cJheoiog^—Thc  Life  and  Ministry  of  the  Savior 
Lesson  13— ''The  Apostolic  Mission  and  Events  Related  Thereto" 
Elder  Don  B.  Colton 
(Reference:  Jesus  the  Christ,  Chapter  21,  by  Elder  James  E.  Talmage) 
For  Tuesday,  February  1,  1949 
Objective:  To  show  how  those  who  put  their  trust  in  the  Lord  gain  spiritual  power 
and  knowledge. 
Note:  All  quotations  which  are  not  followed  by  references  are  taken  from  the  text 
Jesus  the  Chiist. 
pOLLOWING  the  events  de- 
scribed in  our  last  lesson,  Jesus 
returned  for  a  brief  visit  to  Naza- 
reth. The  people  there  had  rejected 
him  once  but  he  was  willing  to  give 
them  another  chance.  He  is  always 
merciful  and  willing  to  forgive.  He 
went  to  the  synagogue  and  they 
were  astonished  at  the  marvelous 
work  he  had  done.  However,  the 
people  were  looking  for  a  Messiah 
and  rejected  him  a  second  time. 
Tliey  said  he  was  the  ".  .  .  son  of 
Mary,  the  brother  of  James  and 
Joses,  and  Juda  and  Simon."  His 
relatives  were  plain  folk.  ''And  they 
were  offended  at  him."  At  Nazareth, 
Jesus  did  not  accomplish  any  great 
work  because  of  lack  of  faith  among 
the  people. 
The  Twelve  Charged  and  Sent 
The  work  of  the  ministry  needed 
expanding.  Jesus  sent  forth  his 
apostles  on  separate  missions  to 
preach  the  gospel.  They  had  been 
students  under  the  Master  for  many 
months;  now  they  were  to  leave  him 
and  commence  the  work  that  ulti- 
Page  770 
mately  took  them  into  all  parts  of 
the  known  world.  At  first  they  were 
to  go  only  to  "the  lost  sheep  of  the 
house  of  Israel."  These  were  to  be 
given  the  first  chance.  Tliis  was  only 
a  temporary  restriction.  Later  they 
were  to  go  among  all  nations.  Always 
they  were  to  preach,  ''the  kingdom 
of  heaven  is  at  hand."  They  were 
given  the  Priesthood  and  told  to 
"Heal  the  sick,  cleanse  the  lepers, 
raise  the  dead,  cast  out  devils:  free- 
ly ye  have  received,  freely  give" 
(Matt.  10:8).  They  were  to  rely 
upon  divine  aid  for  all  their  needs. 
They  were  not  to  take  money  and 
were  not  even  to  take  thought  of 
their  lives.  ^ 
Therefore  I  say  unto  you,  Take  no 
thought  for  your  life,  what  ye  shall  eat, 
or  what  ye  shall  drink;  nor  yet  for  your 
body,  what  ye  shall  put  on.  Is  not  the  life 
more  than  meat,  and  the  body  than  rai- 
ment? (Matt.  6:25). 
All  these  things  were  to  be  pro- 
vided if  they  would  have  faith.  They 
were  told: 
But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these  things 
shall  be  added  unto  you  (Matt.  6:33).