[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Hearts Evelyn Fjeldsted]
BRAVE  HEARTS 
Evelyn  Fjeldsted 
The  hopefulness  and  cheerfulness 
Of  brave   hearts   everywhere — resolved 
To  carry  on  against  great  odds, 
Result,  at  length,  in  problems  solved.

And  What  of  the  Promise? 
Counselor  Marianne  C.  Sharp 
(Address  delivered  at  the  morning  session  of  the  Annual  General  Relief  Society 
Conference,  September  30,  1948) 
SISTER  Spafford  has  asked  me,  in    one    year    was    an    undertaking 
as  chairman  of  the  Rehef  So-  which    to    some    seemed   well-nigh 
ciety  Building  Fund  Commit-  impossible  and  to  others  not  even 
tee,  to  give  a  report  on  the  Building  advisable.    But  the  program  had  the 
Fund.  full  approval  of  the  First  Presidency, 
You  sisters  who  are  here  today,  and  right  after  the  October  confer- 
representing  the  more  than  111,000  ence  the  funds  began  slowly  to  come 
Relief  Society  members  throughout  in. 
the  world,  have  come  rejoicing  to  To  reach  the  true  objective  it  was 
commemorate  the  conclusion  of  the  not  only  necessary  that  the  money 
fund-raising  program  to  erect  a  Re-  be  raised,  but  it  was  essential  that 
lief  Society  Building.  the  giving  be  done  in  a  spirit  of 
Just  a  year  ago  lacking  two  days,  love    so    that    blessings    might    be 
the  Relief  Society  sisters  assembled  poured  out  upon  the  sisters.  From 
at  the  1947  annual  general  Relief  the    expressions    which    have    ac- 
Society   conference   voted   to   raise  companied  the  remittances,  it  seems 
a  vast  sum  of  money  for  the  purpose  certain  that  the  sisters  throughout 
of  erecting  a  Relief  Society  build-  the  world  have  earned  the  blessings 
ing.     You  will  recall  that  the  plan  of  the  Lord  and  that  they  have  been 
provided  that  all  Relief  Society  stake  bound  together  in  closer  bonds  of 
boards  donate  one  half  of  their  stake  sisterhood.    As  one  sister  wrote  who 
board  funds  on  hand  as  of  December  lived  far  away  from  any  organized 
1946,  and  that  every  stake,  in  addi-  Relief  Society:    "In  my  heart  the 
tion,  be  responsible  for  $5  for  every  quota  would  never  be  complete  if 
enrolled  member  as  of  December  my  share  was  missing."    There  have 
1946.     Provision  was  also  made  to  been    numberless    Memorial    Gifts 
have  Relief  Society  members  and  made  to  honor  dear,  faithful  Relief 
friends  donate  Special  and  Memorial  Society  workers  of  both  the  past  and 
Gifts,  as  they  might  desire,  and  the  present.    Recently  the  Florida  Stake 
missions  of  the  Church,  except  the  Relief  Society  expressed  the  spirit 
European  missions,  were  invited  to  of  the  Memorial  Gifts  when  they 
take  part  in  the  financing  program  wrote: 
according  to  quotas  to  be  set  by  their  ^,  .                 •     .     u          v  j 
J.-         -n   T  r    c-     •   ,           '    ■  Ihis    money    is    to    be    applied    as    a 
respective     Relief    Society    mission  Memorial  offering  to  honor  our  beloved 
presidents  in  consultation  with  the  leaders,    Brother    and    Sister    Charles    A. 
mission   presidents.      It  was   hoped  Callis.     It  is  a  pleasure  for  us  to  do  this 
that  these  amounts,  when  added  to-  ^^  we  feel  that  our  roll  could  never  be 
gether,    would    make    up    a    grand  complete  without  its  being  headed  by  the 
?  ,  1     r  c                      T-  i£          -n-  names   or   two   of  our  leaders  who   have 
total  Ot  Jj)500,ooo  or  halt  a  million.  gi^en  of  themselves  so  unselfishly  to  the