"For THE Rights OF THE Women OF Zion AND THF Rights OF THE WOMEN oF ALL Nations.” TRIALS AND HAPPINESS When all is beautiful, and bright and fair, And tranquil flows the pleasant stream of life; We may forget its sorrow, toil or care, Perchance e'en bitterness, and pain, and strife. Some precious lessons, trials may have taught; We may be purer, wiser and more just. Some beauty in our souls may have been wrought. Through faith in God, obedience, and trust, — Emmeline B. Wells THE HOME or CHILDHOOD. A few pictures, a little pains taken to make
the furniture look bright and new, and above everything else rooms kept neat and tidy.
Plenty of sunshine and fresh air makes a house wholesome and the inmates better
natured. Let the children enjoy the parlor as well as the grown people. Never shut
the children out from any place because it is too good for them; they will be more
refined and cultured if they are taught how to handle things that are valuable and
pretty, than if they are always denied the pleasure. Childhood's hours pass quickly
enough, and the cares and perplexities of life bring about many changes in one's feelings
and circumstances, therefore it seems wise and prudent to fortify our children by a
generous supply of good nature, and help them to cultivate all the higher and holier
attributes of the mind. — ^Aunt Em.
IS MEMORY IMMORTAL?
Is memory immortal? Aye, ever and e'er;
All that life hath e'er known, or forgotten, is here
Plainly writ in the book of the soul, where we read
Of the heart's every hope, of the past’s every deed O.F. Whitney y
ONEIDA STAKE: The Relief Society of the Oneida Stake held their annual
conference at Franklin, Sept. 9, 1888, Prest. Elizabeth Fox presiding. Sister Richards
felt to exhort us to lay aside all pride, "and train the minds of our children; not spend
so much time in adorning their body, but adorn their minds with truth and virtue and
they will bless you in your old age; cherish charity, and learn forgiveness to all men and
the Lord will forgive whom he will. It is the duty of the Relief Society to administer
to the needs of the poor." — Annie Hatch, Sec.
MISCELLANEOUS: Thought engenders thought. Place one idea on paper, another
will follow it, and still another, until you have written a page. You cannot fathom
your mind. There is a well of thought there which has no bottom. The more you
draw from it, the more clear and fruitful will it be. If you neglect to think for yourself
and use other people's thoughts, giving them utterance only, you will never know
what you are capable of. At first your ideas may come out in lumps, homely and shapeless;
but no matter; time and perseverance will arrange and polish them. Learn to think
and you will learn to write; the more you think, the better you will express your ideas.
— Exchange  Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon THANKSGIVING Day inevitably turns our thoughts backward to the sturdy character of our Pilgrim Fathers. They are literally the forefathers of many Latter-day Saint men and women, as was remarked by a noted genealogist visiting in Salt Lake City some years ago. The Rich family, who have contributed much to the strength of the Church, are descendants of the Captain Rich who owned and piloted the Mayflower on the voyage when it carried the first Pilgrims to American shores. THE Olympic Games indicate that Fanny Blankers-Koen, thirty, a Dutch mother and housewife, is the world's greatest woman athlete. She easily won four first places in the games: the eighty-meter women's hurdles, in which she established a new world record of eleven and two-tenths seconds; the 100-meter and 200-meter women's sprints; and the anchor in the 400- meter women's relay. She already holds the world record for the women's broad jump, for which she could not compete this time as it was held at the same time as one of the events in which she was contending.