[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: The Practice of Madsen]

The Practice of Consonants for Better Singing Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board He who knows how to breathe and how to pronounce, knows well how to sing (Pacchiarotti). THERE are various approaches to the improvement of word resonance and clarity in speech and song. One of these is to quickly leave the consonant and sustain the vowel. This should be practiced with the following syllables: may, may, may, etc. Me, me, me; my, my, my; mah, mah, mah; mo, mo, mo, moo, moo, moo. After practicing these alone combine them, as for example: me, may, mah; my, may, me; mah, mo, moo; me, may, mo; me, may, my, mah, mo, moo, etc. When moderate facility has been gained in singing the above exercises replace the M with the consonants: B, P, N, L, D, T, W, etc. The L is particularly useful in effecting tongue flexibility. After sufficient technique has been acquired in vowel and consonant articulation, definite words should be used to apply this skill. With this objective in view, the following list of words should be practiced both in speaking and in singing: May, Bay, Pay Maun, Dawn, Pawn Mayme, Name, Lame My, By, Lie Mate, Bate, Date Might, Bite, Night Mah, Bah, Paw Mile, Dial, Tile Mall, Doll, Ball Mow, Bow, Doe Mote, Dote, Note Mole, Toll, Dole Me, Be, Lea Meet, Beet, Neat Meal, Deal, Peel Moo, Boo, Too Moon, Boon, Doon Mood, Food, Wooed These groups of three words should be increased to include others—words commencing and ending with different consonants, sustaining the vowels longer and longer. Practice all syllables and words first on one particular pitch, then on different pitches, scale and chordwise. Sing the exercises in the easy range of the voice and according to definite rhythmical patterns. When three syllables are sung the triplet group may be employed to good advantage and practiced sequentially up and down the scale. When syllables and words beginning with a single consonant have been learned, attention should be turned to the study of double consonants preceding a vowel, such as the following: Blay, Blee, Blah, Blow, Bloo Flay, Flee, Flaw, etc. Play, Plee, Plah, etc. Dray, Dree, Drah, etc. (The R is slightly trilled with the tip of the tongue.) The articulation of consonants, single or double, should be short and distinct, the sustained vowel being the tone. Clear, flexible speech is a prerequisite to beautiful singing. [Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting. ] Page 769 : DEPARTMENT Theology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 13—"The Apostolic Mission and Events Related Thereto" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 21, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, February 1, 1949 Objective: To show how those who put their trust in the Lord gain spiritual power and knowledge. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. FOLLOWING the events described in our last lesson, Jesus returned for a brief visit to Nazateth. The people there had rejected him once but he was willing to give them another chance. He is always merciful and willing to forgive. He went to the synagogue and they were astonished at the marvelous work he had done. However, the people were looking for a Messiah and rejected him a second time. They said he was the "... Son of Mary, the brother of James and Joses, and Juda and Simon." His relatives were plain folk. "And they were offended at him." At Nazareth, Jesus did not accomplish any great work because of lack of faith among the people. The Twelve Charged and Sent The work of the ministry needed expanding. Jesus sent forth his apostles on separate missions to preach the gospel. They had been students under the Master for many months; now they were to leave him and commence the work that Page 770 ultimately took them into all parts of the known world. At first they were to go only to "the lost sheep of the house of Israel." These were to be given the first chance. This was only a temporary restriction. Later they were to go among all nations. Always they were to preach, "the kingdom of heaven is at hand." 'They were given the Priesthood and told to "Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give" (Matt. 10:8). They were to rely upon divine aid for all their needs. They were not to take money and were not even to take thought of their lives.? Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment? (Matt. 6:25). All these things were to be provided if they would have faith. They were told: But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you (Matt. 6:33).