[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Earlier Driggs]
of t his course— the appreciation
of o ur literature— there are also
inspirational outcomes to be gained
from even a hurried perusal of this
remarkable book.
One is impressed first of all with
the author's mastery of the Bible.
His keen analysis of the Scriptures
marks him as a theologian of high
attainment. His portrayal of their
truths in relation to the restored gospel
is o f compelling and convincing
character. Added to all this the author's
skill to tell a story, to write
clear, straight-to-the-mark composition,
to create rhythmic sentences,
and to lift his message into the concrete
with apt words, give literary
quality of high order to his work.
His prose is poetic; it lends itself to
expressive oral reading. Just a few
sentences and paragraphs will serve
here for illustration:
One of the greatest obstacles in the way
of the spread of truth is the tide of pub-
He opinion {The Voice of Warning,
"American Preface," XII).
Opinion and guess-work in the things of
God are worse than useless; facts, well
demonstrated, can alone be of service to
mankind {Ibid., XVI).
During this thousand years Satan will
be bound, and have no power to tempt
the children of men. And the earth itself
will be delivered from the curse which
came by reason of the Fall. The rough
places will become smooth, the barren
desert fruitful; the mountains levelled; the
valleys exalted; the thorn and thistle shall
no more be found, but all the earth shall
yield her increase and abundance to constitute any kingdom in heaven or on earth; namely, first, a king; secondly, commissioned officers duly qualified to execute his ordinances and laws; thirdly, a code of laws by which the subjects are governed, and fourthly, subjects who are governed.... In this respect the kingdom of God is like all other kingdoms, whenever we find officers duly commissioned and qualified by the Lord Jesus, together with his ordinances and laws existing in purity, unmixed with any precepts or commandments of men, there the kingdom of God exists, and there His power is manifest, and his blessings are enjoyed as in days of old (Ibid., "The Kingdom of God," pp. 74:75): The Book of Mormon has perhaps been less understood, and more misrepresented, by the world at large than any other publication which has ever appeared (Ibid., "Origin of the American Indians," page 104). B ye hard-hearted, ye ungodly children of men; your eyes will very soon behold him who was crucified for your sins; then shall ye see that the resurrection of the dead is a reality, something tangible, and that eternity is not a land of shades, nor a world of phantoms, as some suppose (Ibid., "The Resurrection and Restoration," page 166). From this beginning, for which the author gives to God the honor for whatever is praiseworthy in it, and pays tribute also to Joseph Smith for his inspiration and invaluable contributions, our evangelistic literature has continually been enriched through like service from others. Through pen and press we are still getting many worthy contributions to forward the spread of the restored gospel to the ends of the earth. Studies and Activities 1. What is implied by the term evangelistic literature? Cite examples of such literature used to help missionaries today. 2. Compare the various means available today in spreading the gospel with those at the time of Peter and Paul; and also with those when. Our Church was in its beginnings. 3. What accounts for the striking success of the earlier missionaries, despite limitations, in carrying the restored gospel to our nation and the world? 4. For the teacher: Assign to two members of the class the reading aloud expressively of the following excerpts from The Voice of Warning: a. Prophecy concerning the Savior: "Prophecy Already Fulfilled," chapter 1, beginning page 24 with words "We will now proceed to show"—and ending page 25 with words "from the earth." b. As to the Book of Mormon: "Origin of the American Indian," beginning page 65 with words, "The Book of Mormon has"—and ending page 66 with "Book of Mormon really is." Note not only the thought of these selections but the literary qualities of the language—clarity, movement, rhythm, word choice. 5. Be prepared, if time permits, to give other brief excerpts from writings of other early-day missionaries of special merit in proclaiming the gospel, or brief stories of the heroic carrying of the message to the world. See the biographies suggested or other like books for such words or incidents. References Autobiography and Voice of Warning by Parley P. Pratt. These for amplifying story of first missionary work, and beginnings of evangelistic literature for the promotion of this great service. A good history of the Church such as Essentials of Church History, by Joseph Fielding Smith; or Comprehensive History of the Church, by B. H. Roberts, will be of help not only in connection with this lesson, but of others in the course. Biographies such as Brigham Young, the Man and His Work, by Preston Nibley, Wilford Woodruff, by Matthias F. Cowley, and like works on our early leaders will also be helpful for human background in these studies. 

 —NOVEMBER 1948
