[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS. | Author: Unknown]

	INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.
	A YOUNG married man at Rockland, Me.,
became jealous of his wife at an entertain-
ment, and told her on reaching home that
he intended to commit suicide, and was told
to go ahead.  He accordingly procured a
rope, and making due preparation, swung
himself off, calculating, however, that he
would be cut down in season to save his life,
the alarm was given, and the neighbors
hastened to the rescue, but before a knife
could be found to cut him down, the luck-
less wight was black in the face and near-
ly dead.  He is getting over the consequen-
ces, and think's it dosen't pay to run so
much risk for the pleasure of frightening
his better half.
	A FLORIDA man has several "Indian
mounds" upon his land, one of which he
recently opened, and found that it contain-
ed skeletons of men, some of which were
nine feet in length, and from their peculiar
shaped faces he judged that they must have
belonged to a race beyond the memory of
man. He also found arrows of peculiar con-
struction, tipped with some metal resem-

[Column 2]
bling nichel, besides other treasures that he
is not disposed to reveal just yet.  The Pa-
latka Herald says: "There was an old tra-
dition among the Seminoles that Florida
had been inhabited by a civilized or semi-
civilized race, and that they were mostly
artisans, although great in war, and they
had amassed great treasures which were al-
ways buried with them."
	A CORRESPONDENT of the Concord Moni-
tor says that a physcian in that city who
was attending a sick musician during con-
valescence suggested to the latter that it
would be agreeable to hear a little music
during his visits.  The musician fell in with
the suggestion and frequently regaled the
doctor with the concord of sweet sounds.
Time sped rapidly away, and the day ar-
rived for presentation of that little bill for
medical attendance, which amounted to
about $100.  The bill was presented, but the
physician was surprised and disgusted by the
presentation of the following counter charg-
es, which he was ultimately compelled to al-
low: For playing "Oft in the Stilly night,"
six variations, $10; "Sweet Home," three
variations, $5; "German Waltz," one varia-
tion, $2; "Yankee Doodle," six variations,
$10; "Last Rose of Summer," six variations,
$10; solo, "Arkansas Traveler," six varia-
tions, $10; solo, six burlesque variations on
"Pop Goes the Weasel," $10; "Sweet Al-
len," .50; "New Century Hornpipe," .50;
"New Country Hornpipe," .50; "Fisher's
Hornpipe," .50. Total $59.
	IN the business street of an enterprising
village, not many miles from here, an obsti-
nate horse stopped, the other day, contrary
to the driver's wishes and despite sundry
desperate demonstrations on his part. The
society with the long name did not appear,
but a hackney-coachman with a barrel hoop,
a butcher's boy clutching a piece of board,
a stable-keeper with a tremendous whip,
and three burly hostlers armed with smaller
whips, gave the poor animal what Paddy
gave the drum.  But he wouldn't budge an
inch. Then they twisted his tail, fastened
a string around one of his legs, put dirt in
his mouth, stuck a stick in his ear, and a
numerous sidewalk committee, with the
usual officiousness, suggested a hot iron,
sawing his mouth with a rope and various
other ways of diverting the attention of a
balky horse—all without avail. The lean
charger was warranted to stand—and he
did stand a vast amount of pounding, kick-
ing and jerking. At the end of a half hour,
profanity, and cruelty, were below par, and
the matter wore a serious aspect, when a
good-natured Irish woman made her way
through the crowd with a pailfull of swill,
which she held to the mouth of the much
abused creature, with a kindly "Be after
takin' a bite of that, me honey?"  The 
horse sniffed wonderingly at the offal, and 
in the next moment was trotting down town
at a fearful rate. Only another infallible
means of starting a balky horse—that's all.


A LITTLE American lad who had just
commenced reading the papers, asked his
father if the word "Hon." prefixed to the 
name of a member of Congress meant "hon-
est."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
