

NUMBER 5 MAY, 1920 I Latter-day APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Saints Garments Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 20c extra on each garment to Canada or Mexico.  These Approved Temple Garments are Knitted and made right here in  our own UTAH KACTORY to your special order and measurements. Lowest  prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw it in the "Relief Society Magazine."  Look for the APPROVED LABEL. In sacrament No. ' 11 Light weight cotton $2.25  20, cotton bleached $2.50 Medium weight cotton 2.75  22 light weight cotton bleached;  2.75  Heavy weight cotton 3.25   24 Heavy weight cotton bleached 3.75  I 50 Extra white double, bleached mere 5.00  10 Medium weight wool mixture 5.0O f  16 Heavy 'weight wool 6.00  18 Extra heavy wool 7.00 Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than  64-in., or 44-in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c  I extra per suit, we make any size desired.  I Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of  shoulder down to inside of ankle. Orders for less than two garments not  accepted. i  Infant Shirts — Silkaline and Lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age.  MODEL KNITTING Franklyn Christiansen, Manager WORKS I657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 1 I Phone Hy. The way the demand for  Columbia Is Grafonolas opening up I there is a likelihood of a short age in January. DON'T LET HIM CRY I The Columbia Little folks aren't made to shed I Grafonola is a tears. Try a whopping big slice of I real treat. ROIAL The bread that made BREAD  Tell us to send a Columbia Grafonola to your home for a mother quit baking I DAYS' FREE TRIAL.  spread with butter or jelly, and see how quick the sun shines S110.20 again. Royal Bread is the alli $10 down $10 a month  food loaf, every whit pure and wholesome. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE THAN THE STATE OPUTAM-  A REAL self filling Pen,  "MAMMA I guaranteed to satisfy.  I Ask about it.  — make a big pan of Doughnuts I Write about it.  — let the kiddies eat them, and I then ask them if good cooking I can be accomplished with "The Jeweler" 64 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah I Extra Fine TABLE AND PRESERVING N. J. Duller, Proprietor I SUGAR I Manufactured by the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company  State CAFETERIA I READ I AND SODA FOUNTAIN "LoveBy and O. F. the Whitney Light"   $1.25 at the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION  BOOK STORE  Phone Was. 2444 121 Main St. I The Book Store of Salt Lake City 44 East on South Temple Street Globe Optical Company  SALT LAKE'S Established LEADING 25 Years OPTICIANS Louis A. James Manager  11 EAST 2im1 south (Walker Bank Bid*.) SALT LAKE CITY Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS May, 1920 Page 

Suffrage Won by the Mothers of the United States 251
Flowers of Earth and Heaven 276
Beyond Arsareth 277
My Little Span 282
The Official Round Table 283
On the Watch Tower 290
Editorial 291
Guide Lessons 295

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main St.
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 6 Main St.
GLOBE OPTICAL CO., 11 East 2d South
KEELEY'S ICE CREAM, Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, 64 Main St.
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson
ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City
S. S. DICKINSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City
STATE CAFETERIA, 121 Main St.
SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East on South Temple
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City 

WE MOTHERS OF MEN. L. Lulu Greene Richards. For May, 1920. Where do we stand, we mothers" of men? Kisses and flowers on lip and brow! As babes we carried them first and then Led them as often they lead us now. Carry and lead we as younger ones. As elders follow our true, brave sons. From babe to manhood, how quickly past! A flower, a kiss, and the day is gone. Tender emotions — how rich, how vast Thy realm, oh love, from its eve till dawn! And a long, bright day approaches when Joy shall be full for mothers of men! THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VII May. 1920 No. 5 Suffrage Won b} the Mothers of the United States Susa Young Gates. This month we are presenting to our readers quite a comprehensive, yet brief, sketch of the rise and progress of the great suffrage movement, both in this Church and in the United States of America. It is a proud thought for the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to realize that the Prophet Joseph Smith, in organizing the Church in 1830, gave to the women without struggle or request the religious franchises which they have held ever since. The whole story of the struggle made by the women of the United States under the magnificent leadership and organizing ability of Susan B. Anthony has been written. Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton was the first leader. But it was Miss Anthony's creative powers which really focused the forces for civic reform throughout the country during her long and consecrated life. Following her came her own brilliant pupil and associate. Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, who, like Mrs. Stanton, possessed no creative gifts nor organizing powers, but whose eloquent wit and devotion supplied leadership forces which the cause required. Closely associated with these women must be named the lovely, gracious and able secretary, Rachel Foster Avery, the brilliant and forceful organizer, Mrs. May Wright Sewell, and that other close friend and co-worker of Miss Anthony, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, the most magnetic, logical, just and fearless of all women writers and historians on the woman question. Mrs. Harper has written fully the sufferings, struggles, sacrifices, and final triumphs of the suffrage movement. During the life-time of Dr. Anna Howard Shaw and. SUSAN B. ANTHONY DR. ANNA HOWARD SHAW MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS. 253 indeed, during the closing years of Miss Anthony's life, there came to the suffrage movement that other peerless organizer, orator and statesman, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. She combines within herself many of the gifts of her predecessors, with an added poise and tact, which makes her universally revered. It would be impossible in this article to give anything like a complete history of the movement, but we have culled and abridged the brief history written by Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, of the National Suffrage Movement, and also the four suffrage chapters written for the Relief Society by the General Historian, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, which will later be published in the history itself. IDA HUSTED HARPER "June 4, 1919, will forever be Independence Day for American women as July 4 is for the nation. On this day the Senate of the United States, by a vote of two more than two-thirds, adopted the resolution to submit to the State Legislatures an amendment to the National Constitution, which, ratified by three-fourths of them, would give the complete suffrage to women. It had passed the House of Representatives May 21. As soon as the Senate voted, the resolution was signed by the Speaker of the House, and the following day the Vice-president, as president of the Senate, affixed his signature. The gold pen was presented to the National American Woman Suffrage Association for its archives in 254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE recognition of its fifty years of continuous effort for this amendment. "Before this federal amendment could become effective it had to be ratified by the Legislatures of thirty-six States, three-fourths of the whole number. The large majority of them meet biennially, in the uneven years, and had adjourned before June 4, but a few were still in session, and of these, Illinois, Wisconsin and Michigan ratified it within six days of its submission, and Pennsylvania and Massachusetts a little later. "Governors Alfred E. Smith, of New York, and Henry Allen, of Kansas, were the first to call special sessions, followed by Governors W. L. Harding, of Iowa;  Frederick D. Gardner, of Missouri;  Charles H. Brough, of Arkansas;  Samuel R. McKelvie, of Nebraska;  Thomas E. Campbell, of Arizona;  Oliver L. Shoup, of Colorado;  James P. Goodrich, of Indiana;  Samuel V. Stewart, of Montana;  Peter Norbeck, of South Dakota;  Simon Bamberger, of Utah;  Robert D. Carey, of Wyoming;  Wm. B. Stephens, of California. A special session of the Texas Legislature had already been called." The final achievement of the suffrage victory was acclaimed at Chicago, February 12 to 28, in a great convention presided over magnificently by Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. This date was Utah's own jubilee date, as our suffrage bill was signed on Feb. 12, 1870. A resume of the conference was given in our last number, so that we will not repeat it here. It is significant, however, that Mrs. Susa Young Gates represented in herself the earliest pioneer voter present in Chicago, she having married at sixteen and cast her vote in 1872. The next pioneer voter present was Dr. Hebard, of Wyoming, who voted in 1882. Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler represented the second generation of voters, her mother having voted in 1870;  while Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith represented the third and fourth generation of voters, her great grandmother and two grandmothers having voted in 1870. The three Utah women who will receive the gold honor pins are: Dr. Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, and Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Mrs. Kesler and Mrs. Smith and others received honor badges and certificates. It was interesting to know that Mrs. Whitney Smith represented through her great grandmother, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, the first counsellor of the Relief Society organized in Nauvoo, in 1842. Mrs. Kesler as the grand niece of the Prophet Joseph Smith and grand-daughter of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and the daughter of President Joseph F. Smith, was a wonderfully SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 255 historical representative;  while Mrs. Gates represented President Brigham Young, who followed the Prophet in his ministry. What does the future hold for the women of the state, nation and of the world? That question lies peacefully on the closed eyes of the future, while women go quietly on keeping pace with circumstance and opportunity. BRIEF HISTORY OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE. (Written by Ida Husted Harper, and published, April, 1919, National Woman Suffrage Publishing Co., Inc., 171 Madison Avenue, New York.) As America was the first country in which was made the experiment of a representative government by men, it is natural that it should be the first in which women asked a representation. The very first woman to make this demand, so far as known, was Mistress Margaret Brent, of Maryland, in 1647. She was heir of Lord Calvert, the brother of Lord Baltimore, and executor of the estates of both in the colony, and as representation in the legislature was based on property, she demanded "place and voice" — two votes — in that body. Her petition was hotly debated for several hours and finally denied. The precedent was then established which legislatures have been following ever since when women have petitioned for "place and voice." The colonial records of Massachusetts show that women property holders vote under the Old Providence Charter from 1691 to 1780 for all elective officers. When a constitution was adopted they were excluded from a vote for governor and legislature, but retained it for other officials. Under the close restrictions not one-fourth of the men could vote. In March, 1776, Mrs. Abigail Adams wrote to her husband, John Adams, in the Continental Congress: *T long to hear that you have declared an independency, and, by the way, in the new code of laws which I suppose it will be necessary for you to make, I desire you would remember the ladies and be more generous and favorable to them than were your ancestors. Do not put such unlimited power into the hands of husbands. Remember, all men would be tyrants if they could. If particular care and attention are not paid to the ladies, we are determined to foment a rebellion, and will not hold ourselves bound to obey any laws in which we have no voice or representation." As Mrs. Adams used the plural "we," she undoubtedly spoke also for Mrs. Mercy Otis Warren. Mrs. Hannah Lee Corbin and other women of 256 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE influence closely associated with the leading men of the Revolution. In 1778, Mrs. Corbin, sister of Richard Henry Lee, of Virginia, presented her own petition for the right to vote. The Continental Congress left the suffrage to be dealt with by the states in their constitutions, and New Jersey was the only one which conferred it on women, its constitution giving the franchise to "all inhabitants worth $250, etc." In 1790 a revision of the election law used the words "he or she," thus emphasizing the inclusion of women in the electorate. Enough women voted to gain the enmity of politicians, and in 1807 the legislature passed an arbitrary act limiting the suffrage to "white male citizens." This was clearly a usurpation of authority, as the constitution could be legally changed only by action of the voters. In 1826 Frances Wright, a young Scotchwoman of beauty, education and wealth, came to the United States to carry out ideas similar to those put into practice by Robert Dale Owen in his colony at New Harmony, Indiana. In 1836 Ernestine L. Rose, daughter of a rabbi in Poland, banished from her native country because of her progressive ideas, came to this one. While these individual efforts were being made the great anti-slavery question was growing more momentous. In 1826 Sarah and Angelina Grimke, of South Carolina, emancipated their slaves, came north and by their impassioned speeches aroused public sentiment. Garrison soon entered the contest, and the American Anti-slavery Society was formed. From the beginning women were prominently identified with this movement, and the names of Lucretia Mott, Lydia Maria Child, Maria Weston Chapman, Abby Kelly, Abby Hopper Gibbons and many others soon became widely known. The whole question of human rights was thoroughly canvassed and women then began to recognize their own and to take part in the business meetings and putting into effect her resolution made in London, until 1848. opposition that in 1830 it was rent in twain on this point. The question of woman's right to take public part in this movement was carried to the World's Anti-slavery Convention in London, in June, 1840, which refused to recognize the women delegates from the United States, who included Lucretia Mott and Mrs. Wendell Phillips. It was at this time that Mrs. Mott and Mrs. Stanton, a bride, decided that on their return to the United States they would organize a movement especially for the rights of women. Mrs. Stanton had been prevented by family cares from SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 257 putting into effect her resolution made in London, until 1848. In July of that year, Lucretia Mott and her sister, Martha C. Wright, of Auburn, New York, were attending the Yearly Meeting of Friends in Western New York, at Waterloo, where Mrs. Stanton joined them in the home of Mrs. Mary Ann McClintock, and here they decided to carry out the long cherished idea. One Sunday morning the four prepared their declaration and resolution, and sent a call, which they did not dare sign, to the county papers for a two-days' convention to be held in the Wesleyan chapel, at Senaca Falls, Mrs. Stanton's home, "to discuss the social, civil and religious condition and rights of woman." On the 19th and 20th of July the church was filled with people curious and interested to know what the meeting was for. James Mott presided and addresses were made by the four callers of the convention, by Frederick Douglass and several men prominent in the locality. The declaration and resolutions were discussed, the latter adopted and the former signed by one hundred men and women, some of whom withdrew their names when "the storm of ridicule began to break." This declaration stated the whole case for women as comprehensively as it ever has been stated since;  the resolutions comprised practically every demand that ever afterwards was made for women, and taken together they formed a remarkable document. Miss Anthony first met Mrs. Stanton in 1851 and from that time organized work for woman's rights began to take shape in New York. The first conventions were principally in the interest of temperance, but in these the rights of women at once took the lead. In 1852 a bona fide woman's rights convention, with delegates present from eight states, and Canada, was held in Syracuse. It brought to the front the wonderful galaxy of women whose names were henceforth connected with this movement and here began its fiftyfour years leadership by Miss Anthony. From that time until the present, with the interim of the Civil war, the work has actively continued in this state. In May, 1850, during an anti-slavery convention in Boston, a few women in attendance decided to call a convention to discuss exclusively the rights of women, and the time and place were fixed for October 23 and 24 in Worcester. The arrangements were made principally by Lucy Stone and Mrs. Paulina Wright Davis, and from the holding of this convention the woman's rights movement may be said to have assumed a national aspect. Nine states were represented by speakers and among these were Garrison, Phillips, Pillsburg, Foster, 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Burleigh, Douglass, Channing, Mrs. Mott, Mrs. Rose, Abby Kelly, Lucy Stone, Antoinette Brown, Dr. Harriet K. Hunt, and many more of note, and letters were read from Emerson, Alcott, Whittier, Gerrit, Smith, Joshua R. Giddings, Mrs. Swissheim, Elizur Wright, Mrs. Stanton and others. Mrs. Davis presided. A national committee was formed, under whose management conventions were held annually in various cities, while the question was always thereafter a leading one in Massachusetts. An Equal Rights Association had been formed to promote the interests of both negroes and white women, but in 1860 the latter were forced to recognize the necessity for a separate organization if they were not to be entirely sacrificed. At the close of a meeting of this Equal Rights Association in New York, women who had come from nineteen states to attend it, met at the Woman's Bureau in East Twenty-third street, May 15, 1869, and formed a National Woman Suffrage Association, whose object should be to secure a sixteenth amendment to the National Constitution which would enfranchise women. Mrs. Stanton was made president and Miss Anthony was put on the executive committee. In 1892, Mrs. Stanton resigned her office because of advancing age;  Miss Anthony was elected president, and the Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, vice-president. Miss Anthony resigned in 1900 at the age of 80, and Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt was elected. In 1904 she could not serve longer and Miss Shaw was made president. In 1915 she resigned and Mrs. Catt was re-elected. Until 1895 the work of the National American Association was conducted principally from the home of Miss Anthony in Rochester, New York. That year Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, who was corresponding secretary for twenty-one years, shared the burden by opening office headquarters in her home at Philadelphia. In 1900 regular headquarters were opened in New York City under the supervision of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, chairman of the national organization committee. In 1903 they were removed to Warren, Ohio, and placed in charge of Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, national treasurer. In 1909 headquarters on a large scale were established in New York City, with offices for the president, corresponding secretary, chairman of the press committee, and an office staff of eight or ten workers. In March, 1917, the Leslie Bureau of Suffrage Education was established in New York with the large bequest of Mrs. Frank Leslie to Mrs. Chapman Catt for the promotion of woman suffrage, and it works in co-operation with the national SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 259 association. In the two organizations is a force of about forty trained workers, in addition to the president, corresponding secretary, treasurer, one auditor and chairman, of the press committee. A weekly magazine, "The Woman Citizen," was commenced in June under the auspices of the Leslie commission, founded in 1870. taking over "The Woman's Journal," of Boston, In December, 1912, the congressional committee of the national association, opened headquarters in Washington and began active campaign for its original object — an amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The association is a federation of state suffrage organizations. It is affiliated with the International Alliance, in which twenty-seven countries are officially represented. In 1914 the National Woman Suffrage Publishing Co., Inc., was formed and took charge of the literature department. In five years it has published 50,000,000 pieces of literature 18,000,000;  during the New York campaign in 1917. Suffrage in Utah. When the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized the Prophet Joseph Smith freely and voluntarily admitted women to complete religious citizenship from the very first. They voted side by side with their husbands and fathers on all questions pertaining to the choice of officers of the Church, and policies to be adopted. This was a tremendous concession in the year 1830 when no women and few men voted in any church body. Starting with this advantage which was founded upon the doctrine of "common consent," as revealed to the Prophet in June, 1830, (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 26) the women labored side by side with their husbands and fathers in making history, building homes and towns, and accompanied them in their mobbings and drivings, locating finally on the bank of the Mississippi at Nauvoo, in 1840. Here in 1842, March 17, the great and original organization, the Relief Society, was formed, in which women were given at the outset the privilege of choosing their own officers, form of government, and shaping their own policies. After the martyrdom of the Prophet, Brigham Young led the people to the Rocky Mountains and continued the conduct of the civil and religious affairs of the people as had been done by the Prophet himself. Before congress conferred a territorial form of govern- MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL MRS. EMMBLINE B. WELLS MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 261 ment upon the pioneer community of Utah, in 1852, women held the elective franchise as well as the religious vote in the new territory, between the years 1847-52. Bancroft's "History of Utah," refers to this communal form of government practiced in our earliest settlement, in the following language: "During this period men and women voted by ballot in matters relating to government. Women had already voted in religious meetings by the uplifted hand, but this is probably the first instance in the United States where woman suffrage was permitted. Utah at that time, however, was not a part of the United States, and before its admission as a territory the government privilege was withdrawn," by the United States government is an interesting fact that men themselves in any country have never had universal suffrage, so far as is known, until the middle of the last century, and that only in the United States of America. All suffrage privileges for them down the ages have been circumscribed by the accident of birth, by prowess, by property qualifications, or by mental acquirements. The "free" English, French and Swiss voter is still hedged about by these more or less confining requirements. Chancellor James Kent of New York (1763-1847), author of "Kent's Commentaries," in a constitutional convention held in 1821 in New York, declared that he 'would not "bow down before the idol of universal suffrage." meaning male suffrage;  "the theory," he said, "that had been regarded with terror by the wise men of every age," and whenever tried had "brought corruption, injustice, violence and tyranny." If universal suffrage were adopted, he declared, "posterity would deplore in sackcloth and ashes, the delusion of the day. "It was not until between 1840 and 1850 that universal suffrage among the white males came to be accepted even in these free United States of ours. Women are sometimes deceived with the thought that all men. at all times, have exercised the full civil and religious franchise, while, as a matter of fact, in very few of the churches today, certainly not in the established orthodox ones, do men have complete religious rights, much less do they hold the priesthood;  while never, so far as history records, have they exercised universal civil suffrage such as is prevalent in the United States today. The agitation for woman suffrage which began as related at the close of this article with the Woman's Rights Convention at Senaca Falls, New York, in 1848, gathered volume and force after the Civil war. through the efforts of those pioneers, Lucretia Mott. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. 262 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Anthony, Abbey Rielly Foster, Sarah Grimke, Maria Child, and Lucy Stone, for equal rights for white women, for black men and black women. This agitation finally brought about the granting of woman suffrage to the women of Wyoming by the Territorial Legislature in the fall of 1869. President Brigham Young was very much impressed with this liberal and just action of Wyoming. Calling into council the leading men of the legislature. President George H. Smith, Abram O. Smoot, George Q. Cannon, and William Maughn, he suggested the advisability of granting the right of suffrage to the women of Utah, committing the responsibility of the whole measure to Abram O. Smoot. The bill for woman suffrage was introduced into the Legislature by George Q. Cannon on February 9, 1870, but was fathered by A. O. Smoot, chairman of the committee of the whole, with George Q. Cannon, Willard Maughn and Lorenzo Snow as members. Naturally the bill met with no opposition from the husbands and sons of women who had sat side by side for forty years, voting with uplifted hands, on civil and religious matters. The bill was sent to Acting-Governor Mann for his signature. The legislature thought full suffrage had been granted, but a non-"Mormon" governor later refused to let women hold office as the Suffrage Act referred only to the voting privilege. As an illuminating evidence of the attitude of Utah's foremost women on this momentous question note the speeches delivered at a meeting of the Relief Society, as found in the "Deseret News." "Minutes of the Female Relief Society, February 19, 1870, seven days after the passage of the bill and two days before the municipal election. — Most of the wards of the city were represented. Miss E. R. Snow was elected president, and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, secretary. "Meeting opened with singing;  prayer by Mrs. Harriet Cook Young. "Miss Eliza R. Snow arose and said: 'To encourage the sisters in good works, she would read an account of our indignation meeting, as it appeared in the "Sacramento Union; " which account she thought a very fair one.' She also stated that an expression of gratitude was due Acting-Governor Mann for signing the document granting woman suffrage in Utah, for we could not have had the right without his sanction, and said that Wyoming had passed a bill of this kind over its Governor's head, but we could not have done this. SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 263 "The following names were unanimously selected to be a committee for said purpose: Eliza R. Snow, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M. Kimball. M. T. Smoot, H. C. Young, N. D. Young, Phebe Woodruff, M. I. Home, M. N. Hyde, Elizabeth Cannon, Rachel Grant, Amanda Smith, Amelia F. Young and President H. Kimball. "Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, that staunch patriot, suffrage orator and organizer, said 'she had waited patiently a long time, and now that we were granted the right of suffrage, she would openly declare herself a woman's rights woman, and called upon those who would do so to back her up, whereupon many manifested their approval. She said her experience in life had been different from that of many. She had moved in all grades of society;  had been both rich and poor;  had always seen much good and intelligence in women. The interests of man and woman cannot be separated;  for the man is not without the woman nor the woman without the man in the Lord. She spoke of the foolish custom which deprived the mother of having control over her sons at a certain age;  said she saw the foreshadowing of a brighter day in this respect in the future. She said she had entertained ideas that appeared wild, which she thought would yet be considered woman's rights;  spoke of the remarks made by Brother Rockwood, lately, that women would have as much prejudice to overcome, in occupying certain positions as men would in granting them, and concluded by declaring that woman was the helpmate of man in every department of life.' " The captain of Utah's woman-host, Eliza R. Snow, was foremost in all this labor as in every other during her period of public activity;  let she turned over the active direction of this suffrage movement to that champion of equal rights, Sarah M. Kimball. For many years Mrs. Kimball was the "Mormon" suffrage standard bearer. It would be less than justice if it were not here recorded that her active brain, her unselfish devotion to the work of God and her magnificent organizing powers, bore rich fruit during this vital period (1868-1893) in the history of woman's development in the Church. Following her in the leadership of the suffrage forces was that other indomitable pioneer. President Emmeline B. Wells. patriot, Mrs. Then Emilyin S. later years who Richards, came ably that conducted no less suffrage splendid affairs in this state in the later years. After the letter of gratitude to Acting-Governor Mann was received he courteously replied to it, expressing a confident hope that "the ladies of Utah would so exercise the 264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE right conferred as to approve the wisdom of the Legislature." Nine days later, February 21, occurred the first municipal election in Salt Lake City. The first woman to vote that day, and consequently the first in Utah and in the United States to exercise the elective franchise, was Miss Seraph Young, daughter of B. H. Young, Esq., and grand-niece to President Brigham Young, herself a beautiful, refined and cultured young woman. Wyoming passed the suffrage measure November 9,1869, but had no election till the fall of 1870. Utah women voted twice be SERAPH YOUNG Wyoming women voted at all. We "her sisters " November. vowed again in September, and then in No This political period was notable also for the organization of an independent political party, the Liberals — Non- "Mormon" — as opposed to the People's Party — "Mormon." Acting at once, upon the new rights accorded to women, the People's Party committee contained then, and afterwards, the names of two or more women. M. Isabella Home, Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, and later, Emily S. Richards, all had places in the governing state committee of that political party. Following this, suffrage became a vital topic in Relief Society meetings, in social gatherings and around the fireside. The women of Utah were, encouraged not only to attend their primaries religiously, but were enjoined to form civil government classes, to institute mock trials, and to study parliamentary law. They received their best training, however, in the actual participation in civic affairs. Persuaded that the franchise was a duty as well as a privilege, the women voters left their homes and cradles for the political primary and for local and county conventions. The inspiration of the Lord rested on Brigham Young and taught him breadth of sympathy on this question as on all others. He encouraged young women to enter any and all forms of public life where their circumstances and conditions were favorable. He often said that women were far better suited for merchandising, for county clerks, for school teachers, and other offices than were men. He had such perfect confidence in the poise and prudence of the women whose minds were lit up by the spirit of the Gospel that he would gladly have seen them enter every field of endeavor where nature and circumstances permitted. He always maintained SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 265 that all women's and children's diseases should be treated solely by women physicians and women nurses, and encouraged our pioneer woman physician, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, and those who followed her, to go east and take full medical courses. He encouraged the placing of women upon school boards and maintained that every public institution should contain on its board of officers at least two women whose quick insight and intuitive sympathy would protect the interests of all women and children who were beneficiaries of such institutions. He placed women upon the boards of the schools which bear his name. He constantly urged his own daughters to study the principles of government and to cast their votes with independence and wisdom. With the acquisition of the franchise, the civic and social activities of women blossomed rapidly into faithfulness and widened with every opportunity. The pressure of "Gentile" opposition to woman suffrage, both local and nation, grew fiercer as time passed on. Finally, in 1882, United States' Senator George F. Edmunds, of Vermont, focused the national opposition by securing the passage of a bill which disfranchised those living in the plural marriage relations and defined polygamous living as "unlawful cohabitation." The bill was "railroaded" through Congress between the 16th of February and the 14th of March, becoming law on the 22nd of March. Not only were men and women who were polygamists disfranchised, but a whole system of prosecution and persecution was inaugurated. The women of Utah were loyally sustained at that juncture by the leading suffrage women throughout the nation. In the midst of the court proceedings, Belva A. Lockwood telegraphed from Washington to Emmeline B. Wells at Salt Lake City: "Stand by your guns. Allow no encroachment upon your liberties. No mandamus here." The "Woman's Journal," of Boston, edited by Lucy Stone, denounced in scathing terms the "bold attempt to disfranchise citizens who have exercised the right to vote for years." The "Journal" declared that such an attempt would never have been made "if these citizens had not been 'Mormons'." The crusade which followed is both painful to remember and difficult to describe. For five years a reign of terror was inaugurated and none knew when or where peace or safety would obtain. Through the storm women went quietly to the polls and manifested their freedom of choice by voting as they always had done, for the best men for office. In 1887 a new law was devised by the United States Sen- 266 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ator Edmunds, assisted by John Randolph Tucker, of Virginia. More severe in its attacks and in its pressure upon plural marriage the law also disincorporated the Church and escheated its property. All the persons convicted of polygamy or unlawful cohabitation were disfranchised and illegitimate or polygamous children, with certain exceptions, were disinherited;  and finally woman suffrage was abolished in Utah, the act becoming a law March 3, 1887. Thus was taken away violently by the Congress of the United States that which was given freely by the Legislature of Utah. However, seventeen years of voting, of study and reflection on public questions, of officeholding, and of much private and public discussion concerning civic equal rights, educated the women of Utah as nothing else could possibly have done. Among the civic institutions which were early appropriated by the Utah women was the time-honored custom of calling mass meetings and offering resolutions or protests in this or that interest. The number of women throughout the Church who had become excellent speakers, good reasoners and intelligent writers, through labors in the Relief Society, did not lessen, but decidedly increased as civic opportunity permitted them expression in new directions. Mass meetings for good and various causes were held not only in Salt Lake City, but all over the territory, especially when Congress threatened inimical suffrage legislation. Later, between 1887 and 1895, when the question of statehood came to the front, mass meetings and suffrage meetings were held all over the territory. Several state constitutional conventions had been held through the years, women being delegates to these during their voting period;  petitions had been forwarded to Congress and efforts put forth to secure statehood. The petitions had always been refused, on the flimsy ground of lack of population, although other states had been admitted that had far fewer inhabitants;  and sometimes the opposition was a political one, the Democrats fearing Utah would go in as a Republican state, the Republicans asserting that Democrats would rule the new state. The real reasons would not be hard to give. In the spring of 1882 a constitutional convention was held and four women were elected to this convention: Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, from Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Susa Young Gates from St. George, who was, however, unable to attend. The three women who were there took an active part in framing the constitution, and their presence was a decided benefit and SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 267 SO acknowledged by every member of the convention. The women were well versed in parliamentary law and its usage. and what speeches they made were delivered without heat or rancor. The National Woman's Suffrage Association had become a strong factor in woman's development during the 70's. Appreciating the value of alliging themselves with these progressive and intelligent national leaders. Miss Eliza R. Snow arranged with President Young to send delegates to the National Suffrage convention at Washington in January. 1879. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, accompanied by Mrs. Zina Young Williams-Card, only daughter of Aunt Zina D. H. Young, went down to Washington and received from Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss Susan B. Anthony a cordial welcome. These Utahns were voting women and as such were received as befitted their royal acquisition. Both Utah women addressed the convention, attended congressional committee meetings, called upon the President of the United States and presented the case of the "Mormon" women to the Lady of the White House. Mrs. Hayes. From this time "Mormon" women regularly attended the National Suffrage conventions and took part in their deliberation. The high-minded leaders of the suffrage association befriended their "Mormon" associates and accorded them the respect which the characters and attainments of the Utah delegates deserved. Religious questions were not discussed, for the National Suffrage Association early took the stand that there was no religious nor political test which could apply to human fundamental rights. ]Miss Susan B. Anthony maintained a long friendship with a number of "Mormon" women. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Emily S. Richards. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie. were especially dear to this great-hearted and high-principled woman. Mrs. Stanton and ]Miss Anthony visited Salt Lake City in June. 1871. Mrs. Stanton was then president and Miss Anthony vice-president of the National Woman Suffrage Association. In January a public call was made, signed by the most influential women of Salt Lake City, for another mass meeting in the assembly hall to organize a territorial suffrage association. This meeting was held January 10, 1889, with Mrs. Emily S. Richards as chairman of the meeting and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder as secretary protect. The officers elected were: 2«8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President, Mrs. Margaret N. Caine, wife of Congressman John T. Caine;  vice-presidents, Lydia D. Alder, Nellie R. Webber, Priscilla J. Riter;  secretary, Cornelia Home Clayton;  corresponding secretary, Charlotte I. Cobb Kirby;  treasurer, Margie Dwyer;  executive committee, Maria Y. Dougall, Nettie Y. Easton, Ann E. Groesbeck, Phebe Y. Beatie and Jennie Rowe;  vice-presidents, Emily S. Richards, Ann D. Groesbeck and Caroline E. Dye;  recording secretary, Rachel Edwards;  corresponding secretary, Julia C. Taylor;  treasurer, Margie Dyer;  executive committee, Cornelia Home Clayton, Margaret Mitchell, Nellie Little, Teresa Hills and May Booth Talmage. Following this meeting Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Froiseth were appointed state organizers by the national association. Mrs. Richards had to work alone, however, as Mrs. Froiseth, a non-"Mormon," would not, or did not, take part in the work of organizing. Within a few months fourteen auxiliary suffrage societies were formed by Mrs. Richards. Civil government classes were organized and now had enthusiastic success. April 11, immediately following the annual April conference a general meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, in Salt Lake City, with Mrs. Alder, vice president, in the chair. Eloquent addresses were made by Bishop O. F. Whitney, the Hon. C. W. Penrose, the Hon. George Q. Cannon, Dr. Martha P. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. Ida Snow Gibbs and Mrs. Nellie R. Webber. At the annual meeting held in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City in 1890, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball — that dauntless suffrage leader — was again elected president of the Utah branch with Mrs. E. B. Wells, vice president. She continued in office till 1893 when, at the annual suffrage convention, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells succeeded her in that office with Mrs. F. S. Richards as vice-president and state organizer. Crowded and enthusiastic meetings followed in all the larger cities and towns of Utah, held usually under the auspices of the Relief Society, called together by Mrs. Emily S. Richards. Much preliminary work looking to statehood was now undertaken by both men and women. Amnesty finally was granted the male polygamists, permitting them to vote at elections in the territory. The petition for this amnesty was signed by the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, December 19, 1891, and indorsed by Governor Thomas and Chief Justice Zane. President Harrison issued a proclamation of pardon on SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 269 January 4, 1893. On the 6th of September, 1893, the bill named the Enabling Act was presented to Congress by Delegate Rawlins and approved by President Cleveland, July 16, 1894. The bill authorized the holding of a state constitutional convention to be composed of 107 Utah delegates and these met in March, 1895, in Salt Lake City, to form the fundamental law of the proposed state. The constitutional convention met March 4, 1895, and while women were not eligible for a seat in that convention they were represented nobly by the vast majority of men in the convention who were determined to see justice done the women of the new state. The leaders in this enterprise were President John Henry Smith, Bishop Orson F. Whitney, Hon. Franklin S. Richards and Heber M. Wells, later the governor of the new state. President John Henry Smith's breadth and fairness, his love of fair play and justice were never more in evidence. Bishop Whitney's gifts of eloquence and persuasiveness were equal to his opponents, while he had the supreme advantage of standing firm upon the rock of justice and truth. The scholarly and careful arguments of Hon. Franklin S. Richards carried weight and were like direct missies which sped to the mark with every shot, while nothing escaped the keen wit and instant apperceptions of Governor Heber M. Wells. The committee of the whole who first argued the question were: Hon. J. F. Chidester, chairman;  A. S. Anderson, Joseph E. Robinson, Parley Christensen, Peter Lowe, James D. Murdock, Chester Call, Andreas Engberg, A. H. Raleigh, William Howard, F. A. Hammond, S. R. Thurman. In addition to this committee those who sustained the women and pleaded their causes were: Messrs. F. S. Richards, O. F. Whitney, David Evans, George M. Cannon, John E. Murdock, Richard Hart, Anthony W. Ivins, Edward Snow, Messrs. Robinson, Allen, Miller, Farr, Preston, Karl G. Maeser and Heber M. Wells. There were others, but these were foremost. The convention was in session sixty-six days and woman suffrage was royally triumphant. Just after the adjournment of the convention. Miss Susan B. Anthony herself and Dr. Anna Howard Shaw visited Utah, arriving on May 12. They proceeded at once to hold a suffrage conference. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells presided and the conference met in the hall where the constitutional convention had adjourned a few days before. Governor Caleb W. West introduced Miss Anthony and Dr. Shaw who both made eloquent addresses. Welcoming speeches were made by President Zina D. H. Young, general president of the Relief 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Mary Isabella Home and others. A reception in honor of the distinguished guests was given by Hon. Franklin S. Richards and his wife, hundreds of state officials and military officers from the post attending. The suffrage convention lasted two days and Utah welcomed these two great women with open arms. It is understood, of course, that after Congress passes an enabling act permitting the assembling of a constitutional convention, that convention prepares a constitution which must be submitted to the voters of the whole territory for their approval, and after that it is submitted to the President of the United States for his approval and signature. The convention of March held over for sixty days, finally passing the suffrage clause with the whole constitution which was then submitted at the fall election to the vote of the people. It was then sent for ratification by President Cleveland. The Republican party placed three women upon the ticket: Mrs. Lillie Pardee for the Senate, Mrs. Emmen B. Wells for the House of Representatives, and Mrs. Emma McVicker for the Superintendent of Public Instruction;  but it was finally decided that there was a legal question involved in the use of the women's names which might imperil the success of the Republican vote. Therefore, the women consented, very reluctantly, to the withdrawal of their names. It is interesting to know that the constitution was adopted by a large majority28,618 ayes and 2,687 nos. President Cleveland signed the constitution January 4, 1896, and again full suffrage was conferred upon the women of Utah. Mrs. Lillie Pardee was elected clerk of the Senate and had the distinction of being the first woman who signed the credentials of a United States senator. On the Board of Regents of the State University, Mrs. Emma J. McVickers served from 1898 to 1905, Mrs. Rebecca E. Little from 1897 to 1907, Mrs. Antoinette B. Kinney from 1905 to 1907, and Mrs. Belle Anderson Gemmell from 1911 to 1915. Mrs. Little was instrumental in the establishment of the Domestic Science Department in 1903 and Mrs. McVickers in the establishment of the Kindergarten in 1900. The first legislature, 1896, passed "An act for the establishment of sericulture" (raising of silk worms). Women had worked energetically to secure this measure, and it was appropriate that five of them, three Republicans and two Democrats, should be appointed as a silk commission. Zina D. H. Young, Isabella E. Bennett, Margaret A. Caine, Ann C. Woodbury and Mary A. Cazier, were chosen. Each was required to give a thousand-dollar bond. A later legislature appropri- SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 271 ated $1,000 per annum to pay the secretary. Very great activity was manifested in this line for many years. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young being the leader of the movement, ably assisted by Mrs. Margaret E. Caine. Since that time, however, this has been repealed and sericulture has declined and now is almost forgotten in this state. To go back a few years, and thus to bring our chronological story up to date, the November, 1900, election was fraught with great interest to the women, as state officials were to be elected as well as the legislature and they were anxious that there should be some women's names on the ticket for both the House and the Senate, and that a woman should be nominated for Superintendent of Public Instruction by both parties. For this office the Republican and the Democratic women presented as candidates, Mrs. Emma J. McMicker and Miss Ada Faust, but both conventions gave the nomination to men. Meantime Dr. John R. Park, the superintendent, died suddenly and Governor Wells appointed Mrs. McVicker as his successor for the unfinished term. !Mrs. J. Ellen Foster, of Washington, D. C, was sent to Utah by the Republican National Committee, and with Mrs. F. Boynton and others, made a spirited and successful campaign. Only one woman was nominated for a state office in 1900. Mrs. Elizabeth Cohen for the legislature, and she was defeated with the rest of the Democratic ticket. Later she came into active and valuable service. At the close of the legislature in 1896 the Republican State Central Committee was reorganized;  with Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball as a member and ]Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells as vice chairman. Miss Julia Farnsworth, secretary. The Democratic party was also liberal toward women and the feeling prevailed that at the next election women would be placed in various state and county offices. There were many women delegates in the county and also in the state conventions of both parties in 1896, and a number of women were nominated. It was a Democratic victory and the women on that ticket were elected — Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon to the Senate; Eartha Le Barthe and Sarah A. Anderson to the House;  Margaret A. Caine, auditor of Salt Lake county;  Ellen Jakeman, treasurer Utah county;  Delilah K. Olson, recorder Millard county;  Fannie Grahl(Republican), recorder Box Elder county, and possibly some others. Dr. Cannon was therefore the first woman state senator in the United States. In the legislature of 1896, Dr. Cannon championed the measure bv which a State Board of Health was created and 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was appointed by the governor as one of its first members. She had part in the defeat of the strong lobby that sought to abolish the existing State Board of Public Examiners, which prevents incompetents from practicing medicine. She introduced a bill compelling the state to educate the deaf, mute and blind;  another requiring seats for women employees;  what was known as the Medical Bill, by which all the sanitary measures of the state are regulated and put in operation;  and another providing for the erection of a hospital for the State School of the Deaf, Dumb and Blind, carrying with it the necessary appropriation. All the bills introduced or championed by Dr. Cannon became laws. She served on the Committees of Public Health, Apportionment, Fish and Game, Banks and Banking, Education, Labor, etc. At the close of the second two years' term the Senate presented her with a handsome silver-mounted album containing the autographs of all the senators and employees. She had drawn what is known as the long term, and at its close she was chosen to present a handsome gavel to the president of the Senate in behalf of the members. Dr. Cannon is the mother of a talented family. As chairman of the Committee on Statistics she was the author of Utah's Vital Statistics law which, at its time of passage, was considered the eighth best in the United States. Since then it has been the pattern for many such laws in other states. Senator Cannon sat on the following committees: Apportionment, Public Institutions, Railroads, Ways and Means, Education, Judiciary, and Public Health, of which she was chairman. She secured the passage of a bill authorizing the teaching of the effects of narcotics in the schools and also a Health Bill on the repression of nuisances and contagious diseases. The legislature which met in January, 1897, had not only Mrs. Martha Hughes Cannon of Salt Lake City as senator, but also two members of the House, Mrs. Sarah E. Anderson of Ogden and Mrs. Euritha K. La Barthe of Salt Lake City. The first bill introduced by a woman in the House to become a law was the one to compel women to remove their headgear in all indoor places of amusement. It was drawn and introduced by Mrs. La Barthe. Mrs. Sarah E. Anderson introduced a bill to provide for teaching the effects of Alcoholic Drinks and Narcotics in the schools, but it was not passed until the next legislature met, and was under the active charge of Senator Martha Hughes Cannon. In the legislature of 1899 Alice Merrill Home was a Suffrage won by member of the Lower House. Mrs. Home has been a school teacher most of her, is a student, lecturer on art, and has been She isa worker the mother in women's organizations of five children. She since she was a girl. introduced free normal scholarship bill which is now operating in the State University. The appointment was for four years. She was chairman of the University of Utah Committee, and over $300,000 was expended under their direction in securing the congressional land grant. Through her efforts as chairman of the Committee on Art and Education a permanent art institute was established in the state and the state collection of prize pictures is named in compliment to her, "The Alice Art Collection." This institute holds annual exhibitions and has been the means of stimulating competition among the artists, educating the public and making for a love of the beautiful in this region. In the legislature of 1903 Mary G. Coulter of Ogden sat in the Lower House and was chairman of the Judiciary Committee. She was active in securing the passage of the AntiCigarette Act. Mrs. Coulter was the last woman member of either House of the legislature until 1913, when Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Dr. Jane Skolfield, Mrs. Annie H. King and Mrs. Reid, were elected to the House of Representatives. These women were instrumental in securing the Mother's Pension Law for Utah and also the Minimum Wage Law for women passed by this legislature. One of our able legislators and public workers is Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. She is the gifted daughter of President Emmeline B. Wells, herself a writer, speaker and all-round executive, having been president of the Pioneer Stake Relief Society for many years and is now a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She is the mother of twelve children, eleven of them living. She is conservative, sound and true to every principle of righteousness. One piece of legislation accomplished through her efforts in 1913 was the enlarging of the Bureau of Emigration Labor and Statistics with the addition of a woman deputy, a new office whose duty it is to look after the interests of the women and children laborers in the state. This office was occupied for some years by Mrs. Elizabeth F. Nielsen whose services were entirely satisfactory. She also is a woman of culture and refinement and a credit to the office which she so long filled. In 1915 two able and popular women, Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hayward and Mrs. Lily C. Wolstenholme were elected to the 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lower House. Mrs. Wolstenholme introduced and secured the passage of a bill prohibiting the receiving of money from fallen women and also one limiting working hours of public employees. Mrs. Hayward secured the passage of our Child Labor Bill and also one relating to the Art Institute. In 1917 Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hayward, who is one of our foremost and highly gifted women, is the mother of a large family and an excellent business woman. Dr. Grace Stratton Airey and Mrs. Daisy C. Allen of Garfield were elected to the Lower House where they did their share in securing prohibition for the state. Mrs. Hayward, under the auspices of the State Suffrage  Council, introduced the Memorial to Congress recommending immediate consideration of the Susan B. Anthony Federal Suffrage  SENATOR Amendment. It passed both Houses and ''wART?  signed by the governor. It was she who secured the special session of the legislature in September, 1919, which met simply and only to ratify the Suffrage  amendment. We have had thirteen women in the legislature since 1896 when statehood was attained. In the spring of 1896 the Democratic State Convention elected Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson as an alternate delegate to the National Convention, and she was the first woman alternate to ever serve in any big political convention. In 1900 Mrs. Elizabeth Cohen was elected alternate to the National Democratic Convention at Kansas City. Mrs. Chambers, a delegate, was taken ill and Mrs. Cohen was the unanimous choice to second Mr. Bryan for President at this convention, she being the first woman in the United States ever accorded such an honor. In this same year Mrs. William H. Jones was sent as an alternate to the Republican National Convention. In 1908 Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hayward was a delegate to the National Convention at Denver and Mrs. Sarah Ventress went as alternate. In 1911 Mrs. Susa Young Gates and Mrs. Lucy A. Clark were nominated as delegates to the Republican Convention at Chicago. In 1908 Mrs. Margaret Zane Cherdon, another fine business woman with a charming personality and a quick, keen brain, went as a delegate to the convention which nominated Wm. H. Taft. Mrs. Cherdon served as a presidential elector SUFFRAGE WON BY MOTHERS 275 in the following election in 1913 and carried Utah's electoral vote to Washington. She was the first woman of the country ever so honored. In 1916 Mrs. Elizabeth A. Hayward and Mrs. B. T. Pyper were delegates to the National Democratic Convention at Chicago and ]Mrs. L. M. Crawford and Mrs. Alice E. Paddison were delegates to the Progressive Convention of the same year. At the present time in the state. Mrs. Elizabeth M. Cohen is Commissioner of Pensions and Mrs. L. M. Crawford holds a responsible position in the office of the State Land Board. There are women district chairmen throughout the entire state who carry on the details of their positions very efficiently. In several counties of the state the positions of recorder, treasurer and auditor are repeatedly and efficiently held by women. In Salt Lake county, Margaret Zane Cherdron has held the position of county clerk for two terms and she also ran for nomination of state treasurer, being defeated by only two votes. A piece of important legislation which was put through during the winter of 1913 by the women was the enlarging of the Guardianship Bill. The law. as it stood was much broader than those of many states, but even so it did not give the mother an equal chance with the father of minor children which might be in contest. Consequently the women labored hard to add an amendment to this bill. It is now looked upon as the model guardianship bill in the United States and was so quoted in the late victory convention in Chicago by the leading one discussion, lawyers of that male that convention, members of then it was under the legislature said somewhat loftily, that "marriage was a corporation, and that there always must be a head to a corporation." Quick witted Mrs. King was upon her feet instantly and replied to this saying that in her estimation "marriage Avas not a corporation, but a partnership, and the interests of the parents were equal, while their rights, privilege and duties, were in the same class." This state was the first to pass the minimum wage bill which was especially the care of women in the legislature of 1913, and the minimum wage was made 75 cents per day for the first year and $1.25 for all over 20 years of age in the second year of service. 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FLOWERS OF EARTH AND HEAVEN. John M. Chamberlain. I know a garden fair to see, Where sweetest flowers grow;  Red roses bloom with sweet perfume, And He’s white as snow. The pansies, too, they smile on you. With modest violets;  The columbine our hearts entwine, With fragrant mignonette. Then come, oh, come, the flowers call. With voices so sweet, in our hearts they meet, They call for one, and all. Go where you will, by land or sea. No place can compare with flowers so fair They call, "Oh, come to me." In heaven there's a garden fair, Where flowers immortal grow. Angelic love that blooms above, • Pure as the driven snow. And faith, and hope, sweet charity, They are the blessed three That bind our hearts no more to part, Through all eternity. Then come, oh, come, the angels call, With mercy and love in heaven above They call for one and all. The call by land, the call by sea, To joys that we meet, to hearts that we greet, They call, "Oh, come to me." Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued.) Sunlight at last came back to the heavens. At first, just a tinge as of ashen gray light appeared along the horizon following the sun along its course. The light grew clearer day by day (each revolution of the earth is called a day) until at last we had broad daylight all the time. Then, in March, the sun appeared above the horizon in the south, skimmed along the hills, slowly rising into the sky as it made its daily round. There was great rejoicing on the day when the sun first appeared. Meetings were held in the open air, in spaces cleared of snow. There were speeches, and songs in which the whole multitude took part. The long winter had past, and soon the land would be clothed with green. The warm sun would shine in their sky for nearly six months, and everybody was happy. I also partook of the spirit of the occasion. I was glad to see the sun again. With the coming of the sun, came a wonderful awakening all over the land. During the winter the life had been more hidden, but now it burst forth to be seen and heard. In an incredibly short space of time the snow melted, and the grass began to grow. Then the fields and gardens were filled with men, plowing, digging, sowing, planting. There was hardly time to eat and sleep. Factories were closed, workshops were nearly deserted, and the higher departments in the schools were dismissed until the next winter season. Amid all this activity, I was not neglected. I soon learned that I had been the object of constant attention since the time of my arrival. The rulers of the land and many of the chief men had kept in constant communication with Joseph. It had been suggested that I should be entertained at some of the chief residences, but as I had appeared to be contented in Joseph's home, they thought it best to let me remain there. I was certainly a precious "find," and as such I was to be treated with the utmost care. They were eager to know from Joseph what progress I was making in the language, and there had been great rejoicing when it was learned that I would shortly be able to communicate many things to them. I must say that my importance did not at first appear 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to me, but later, when I learned more, and had time to think about my position, I could plainly see the possibilities which I presented to the people of this land. I now began, also, to understand what I had missed in not being more studious. I feared that my stock of information of the great world from which I had come would soon be exhausted when the learned men of the land began drawing it from me. I had read some history, both at home and at school, but I was weak in the sciences. Had 1 known something about mechanics, and something of electricity, what a field was here for usefulness! With plenty of iron and other metals, and coal, electric light would be easy. But I knew practically nothing about such things and I don't know whether or not the suggestions I might be able to give would be of any assistance to the learned men here. I have already been experimenting with gas making, and I believe in time, we can displace oil lamps, if not with electricity, with gas. As yet, I have not visited all parts of the land, but from the knowledge I have of this country and its resources, I see no reason why many of the modern improvements known to the world cannot be introduced. Oh, if I only knew more! My heart fails me, when I think of my ignorance, and yet how much depends upon me. I who was as a castaway, a good-for-nothing, who had not found welcome room even in the heart of a simple girl, and now the attraction of a nation, and the care of its most powerful minds. Well, I only hope that I can prove of some service. I feel at home among the people. 1 don't know that I would return to the world had I the chance, not at present, at any rate. One day Father Joseph came into my room, while I was resting from a recently finished journey. I was reading my Bible when he entered, but I laid it down and talked to him. It was in my mind to ask him regarding their religion, and 1 did so. I shall not try to write the exact words that were spoken by us, as they were quite disconnected in places. However, the substance of our conversation was about as follows: "Father Joseph, I wish to know something of your religion. You worship, you sing, and you pray about as the Christians do in the world from which I come. Are you Christians?" I had to explain what I meant by Christian. "Our religion is the gospel of Jesus Christ," he said. "But how did you get that religion?" "From the Lord himself. About 2,000 years ago he appeared to this people, and taught them the gospel. We now have apostles and prophets, and the church is organized BEYOND ARSARETH 279 according to the pattern the Lord showed us." "And you have kept that religion all this time?" "We have had many periods of wickedness, but there has always been enough of the righteous left to hold on to the truth so that the power of the Priesthood was never completely crushed. We have enjoyed great peace now for a long time, although a portion of the people living on the other side of the land are causing much doubt in the minds of many of the young men and women." I was greatly surprised at what I heard. It seems that the Lord had visited this people about the time that he had lived in the land of Palestine. But how could that be. I asked? "Yes. we know that the Lord was born in Bethlehem of Judea;  that he lived in that land;  and that at Jerusalem he was put to death on the cross." "How do you know that?" "Our records tell us that." I had seen some of their books. They are very crude affairs compared with what the world can make. "But my book tells me the same things, with many more." I picked up my Bible, and turned over its pages. Joseph instantly became deeply interested. He took it and examined it carefully. "What is this?" he asked. "It is a history of God's dealings with part of the world," I tried to explain, for truth to tell, it was hard for me to answer his question. "It tells of Adam and Eve, of Noah, of Abraham, of Moses, and of all the prophets." The old man's eyes glistened. "Go on," he said. "It tells much of the children of Israel, and then of the Savior Jesus, and of what he said and did. And then also of what the men whom the Savior chose to preach his gospel said and did." "The Lord be praised for this," said he, and he clasped the book to his heart. "The Lord be praised for you. You must learn our language, so that you can translate for us this book — that we also may know." "Another big job; " thought I;  "I'll have my hands full." "And now," continued Joseph, who appeared to be there chief away with men what in the land. had learned, You must"you showmust them go the with book, me and tell them what it is. I cannot keep this to myself longer." "But, it is hard for me to explain," I pleaded. "Can we not wait for a time. All are busy now." 280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "No," said he, "we must go tomorrow." I was not altogether pleased with the outcome of our conversation. I would much rather have remained where I was, at least until I could use the language better;  but all my excuses were of no avail. On the morrow we were off. For many hours we travelled through a busy country of workers, who greeted us pleasantly as we passed. We stopped for rest and sleep in a city, and then we went on again. There was little to see excepting the fields and workers, and the towns, for the most part quite deserted. The roads were smooth and hard and our horses made good progress. At the close of the second day we drove into a large town. The streets were filled with people, coming from the fields to their homes to rest. Here is where the chief men for this part of the land live. I say chief men because I can not translate the names they call them. They have heads of all civil affairs, I understand, as also of religious. Although I rested that night, I hope all will understand that it was not night, that is, it was not dark, but there are the usual divisions of time here, and I shall say day and night to distinguish between them. That night I lodged with a man high in authority, yet his house was quite as simple as many I had seen. I was most cordially received, however. The next day Joseph came for me and we went together to a large assembly room, which was filled with men. I had with me my grip, within which was my Bible. When I saw that assembly of men, mostly elderly, and I knew, wise, I feared greatly. I shook hands with a number who sat on a platform slightly elevated above the floor, and there I sat down with them. A murmur ran through the congregation. Every eye was fixed on me, every ear was intent on what I might say. One patriarch spoke to the men. I understood very little of what he said, but he was explaining who I was and what might be expected of me. Father Joseph next spoke. He soon warmed to his subject and then I caught very little of what he was saying. Then I was asked to tell the assembly about the world and especially about the book which I had. I was greatly afraid as I stood up, but I realized the tremendousness of what I could impart to them and I entered into the spirit of it. In broken sentences, and misused words, mixed, I fear with considerable English and even a Little Norwegian, I talked. I stood before them for fully two hours, and they sat there like so many statues, I told a little of how I had BEYOND ARSARETH 281 arrived in their land;  how many brave men had tried to reach the region near the Pole;  and how none had ever succeeded. I told of the nations that inhabited the earth, a little of its geography, and history. I tried to explain the steamboat, the railroad, the electric light and many other of the modern inventions;  and then I took out my Bible and told what I knew of the book. I acknowledged that I had not read it as faithfully as I should, but since I had been among them I had done much reading, and had come to a realization of the great worth of the record. I told them that what I had was theirs. If I could do them any good that they were to let me know. If they would have patience with me until I learned their language more perfectly, I should be pleased to do my utmost to impart to them all I could of the great world from which they had so long been shut out. The audience was wonderfully moved when I stopped. Tears were in their eyes, and there was a stillness which was profound. Then they broke out into a song of praise and thanksgiving. Further words were spoken by one who was their leader, and then the company dispersed. Father Joseph and I were then taken into a house, whose rooms were the most elegant I had yet seen. They were the guest chambers, I was informed. A number of the prominent officials went with us. Joseph explained that we would remain for some time in this place, so I must make myself at home. This I readily did. We ate our meal together and there was much talk which was as interesting to me as it was to them. It was then suggested that my Bible was too precious to be carried in a bag such as I had, and that it ought to be deposited in the fireproof vault of the house. I readily consented to this, providing I could have free access to it. I now saw clearer than ever that I must know more thoroughly the contents of the book. That evening when the laborers had come home and eaten their meals there was another gathering. This time it was in a large pavilion-like structure, and both men and women came. The women had changed their working clothes and now wore garments, mostly white, relieved by some soft shade of blue or red. Up to that time I had never seen such a gathering. Here was a company of women numbering hundreds, each one of whom reminded me of a beautiful picture I once owned of "Rebecca at the Well." I saw they reminded me of the picture, though in what way I can hardly tell, unless it was in the expression of their faces, the arrangement of their hair, and the hanging of their dresses. The air was yet chilly, so there could be no undue exposure 282 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the body — the fact is, that there is none, even in the warmest days. This gathering was more of a reception than a meeting for formal speaking, although 1 was given a sort of general introduction and then spoke for a short time. Father Joseph and I then mingled freely with the people, shook hands and spoke a few words. It was tiring work but I never was more happy in my life. I felt and saw the welcome meant for me. I believed it came from their hearts without guile or deceit. There was music and chorus singing. I had often seen the harp and heard it played, yet until now I had never appreciated its full beauty. A large band of young girls, arranged on a raised platform, played their instruments together. As I sat there looking over the vast concourse of people, and listening to that music and the hum of voices, I thought of a home that I once had far away;  and then I asked myself, what would "she" say could she but see me now. Would it make any difference? I wonder! (To be continued.) MY LITTLE SPAN. Bertha A. Kleinman. So little done, and O so much to do! The world so scarred with strife and I so frail — I fold my hands and sit me down and dream Of project rare and regal plan and scheme, That, had I but dominion, should not fail. I would be wise and righteous and benign, And error's boast should wither in my scorn, Bruised, fainting men should know my charity. The world be warmed in my magnanimity, Had I perchance for leadership been born! I would be just — Ah me! that longings vain Should rack my peace and buffet every plan. To sigh for might and sovereignty — Lo! I who teem with fault and frailty. Nor fill too well my own cramped little span. I would be liege, I would dominion know, And sow the world's stained acreage with good, Lo! I who fail and scarce can find the way To rule the little strifes of every day, Whose wraths and wiles accost my fortitude. THE OF MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN Relief Society Conventions and Conferences For 1 920 New Plan for Holding Conjoint Conventions. With the sanction and approval of the General Authorities of the Church, the correlation committee of the Church has arranged for the holding of stake group conventions during 1920, with the six auxiliaries of the stake participating. These two-day conventions will be held in fifty-one stakes this year during the period of quarterly conferences, from August 1 to October 31, and will take the place of the former auxiliary conferences in these stakes. In the remaining twenty-eight stakes, which includes those adjacent to Church headquarters, separate one-day conferences will be held, the dates to be arranged by the stakes themselves in conjunction with the general secretary. These conferences may be held in May, June, or November, but must not interfere in any way with the regular quarterly conferences of the Church. Group Conventions. Those stakes holding joint conventions from August 1 to October 31, will be: Alberta, Bannock, Bear Lake, Beaver, Big Horn, Blaine, Boise, Burley, Carbon, Cassia, Curlew, Deseret, Duchesne, Emery, Idaho, Juab, Juarez, Kanab, Lost River, Maricopa, 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Malad, Montpelier, Morgan, Millard, Moapa, Oneida, Parowan, Pocatello, Portneuf, Panguitch, Raft River, St. George, St. John, St. Joseph, San Juan, San Luis, Sevier, Snowflake, Star Valley, Summit, Taylor, Teton, Tintic, Tooele, Twin Falls, Uintah, Union, Wasatch, Wayne, Woodruff, Young. The definite dates for these conventions will be sent out later. Program for Group Conventions. 1. The program for group conventions contemplates that there shall be in attendance, all stake and ward workers of six auxiliary organizations;  that presiding authorities and priesthood of stake and wards shall be invited to attend and so participate as to increase their understanding and interest in all auxiliary endeavor;  that representatives of each General Board be in attendance to further the interests of their respective organizations. 2. It is proposed to arrange a program of meetings that will offer practical and definite assistance to each association, such as: General sessions where subjects of equal interest to all may be presented. Separate meetings of stake boards. Departmental meetings where definite and practical help is to be given to ward workers. Convention Program — Aim: Co-operation. Saturday: 11:00 a. m. M. I. A. Joint Meeting— Stake Board Officers. 10:00 a. m. General Session. Relief Society — Stake and Ward Officers. Primary Association — Stake Board Officers. ReHgion Classes — Stake and Ward Officers. Sunday School, 3 departments;  4 classes: Kindergarten, Primary, First Intermediate (1st year), Third Intermediate (3rd year.) 2:00 p. m. General Session. 3:00 p. m. M. I. A. Joint Meeting— Stake Board Officers. Sunday School — Stake Board Officers. Relief Society — Stake Board Officers. Religion Classes — Stake and Ward Officers. Primary Ass'n. — Stake and Ward Officers 4:00 p. m. Departments. Organist and Choristers of all Auxiliary Organizations. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 285 Secretaries and Treasurers of all AuxiliaryOrganizations. Superintendents or Executives of all AuxiliaryOrganizations. Sunday: 9-10:30 a. m. Y. M. M. I. A.— Separate Meeting. Y. L. M. I. A. — Separate Meeting, Relief Society — Stake and Ward Officers. Primary Ass'n. — Stake and Ward Officers. 10:30 a. m. General Session. 1:00 p. m. General Session Sunday School Workers. 1:30 p. m. Sunday School Departments: Second Intermediate (2classes) ;  Theological (2 classes) ;  Parents (1 class);  Superintendents (1 class). 2:30 p. m. General Session. Separate Stake Conferences. Those stakes holding special conferences in May, June, or November, will be as follows: Alpine, Bear River. Benson, Bingham, Blackfoot, Box Elder, Cache, Cottonwood. Ensign, Fremont. Granite, Hyrum. Jordan, Liberty, Nebo, North Davis. North Sanpete, North Weber, Ogden. Pioneer. Rigby. Salt Lake, Shelley, South Davis. South Sanpete. Utah, Weber, Yellowstone. The program for these one-day conferences should consist of a stake board meeting;  a stake and local officers' meeting (or general session, if preferred) ;  and a general session. Following is a copy of a letter which will be sent out by the correlation committee to the stake presidents of the Church: To the Stake President: Dear Brother: At a recent meeting of the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve, it was decided to hold the annual conferences of the auxiliary association of the Church as group conventions. In many of the stakes in 1920 these conventions are to be held in connection with the quarterly conferences. This does not mean that the quarterly conference will be supplanted by auxiliary conventions, but it does mean that one of these conferences will be devoted to the considera- 286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tion of the duties and purposes of the various auxiliary associations. The presidency of the stake will have charge as usual and all necessary official business of the stake receive attention. In as much as the program of these group conventions contemplates the attendance of all stake and ward workers of six auxiliary organizations, it will be necessary to make special arrangements to accommodate the various groups who must assemble at the same time in various meetings. All presiding authorities and priesthood of stake and wards are urged to attend and so participate as to increase their understanding and interest in all auxiliary endeavor. It is expected that a representative of each General Board will be in attendance to promote the interests of his or her respective organization. It is proposed to arrange such a program of meetings as will offer practical and definite assistance to each association, such as: General sessions where subjects of equal interest to all may be presented. Separate meetings of stake boards. Departmental meetings where definite and practical help is to be given to ward workers. It is further recommended that stake presidents and bishops be asked to co-operate. (1) To get workers to the convention at ten a. m. Saturday. (2) To make assignments of stake and ward authorities and of auxiliary workers so as to avoid conflicts in the departments of the convention. Note: To avoid conflict due to one person's holding office in more than one organization, a careful consideration is recommended and where advisable other workers to be called in, if this is not possible the stake presidency may make assignments, first giving precedence to position in official order, and where there is no difference in position to priority of appointment. (3) To arrange for the accommodation of as many as eight departments at one time. (4) To have local people ready to prepare to entertain visitors — ward, stake and general — according to their auxiliary group. These group conventions will be held during the quarter commencing about August 1st, and' continuing until October 31st. The inclosed suggestive program will be an aid to THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 287 you in arranging for the places of meeting. The completed program will be forwarded to you later. Trusting that the advantages of this plan over that of holding six separate conventions will be readily apparent to you, and that the minor difficulties connected with it may be overcome in your stake, and assuring you of the hearty co-operation of the general boards in all efforts to make the auxiliary work a potent factor for good in the lives of the people, we remain Sincerely your co-workers. THE CORRELATION COIMITTEE. RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1919. CASH RECEIPTS AND CASH DISBURSEMENTS. CASH RECEIPTS— Balance on hand Jan. 1, 1919: Charity fund? 21,402.65 General fund 44,507.32 Wheat fund „ 194,316.91 Total balance $260,226.88 Donations: Charity fund 70,416.91 General fund - - 61,059.58 Wheat fund _ 5,977.61 Annual Dues for General Board 8,656.87 Dues for Stake Board „ - 1,966.79 Received for wheat sold 19,070.60 Other receipts _ 44,553.84 Total donations and receipts $211,702.20 Total $471,929.08 CASH DISBURSEMENTS: Paid for charitable purposes $ 68,693.41 Paid for general purposes 55,541.53 Paid for wheat 2,102.22 Paid to General Board for membership dues 9,488.45 Paid to Stake Board for dues 3,023.47 Paid for other purposes 29,022.56 Total expenditures $167,871.64 Balance on hand Dec. 31, 1919: Charity fund - 27,004.16 General fund „ 59,122.67 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Wheat fund 217,930.61 Total balance $304,057.44 Total $471,929.08 WHEAT ACCOUNT Received and Disbursed. RECEIPTS— Wheat on hand Jan. 1, 1919 6,633,444 lbs. Wheat donated during 1919 36,836 lbs. Wheat purchased during 1919 389 lbs. Other wheat receipts 323,669 lbs. Total 6,994,338 lbs. or 116,572.3 bu. DISBURSED— Wheat credit with P. B. O - 5,078,269 lbs Wheat in local Relief Society granary 912,454 " Wheat in other granaries 154,697 " Other wheat deposits 326,207 " Total wheat on hand and wheat credits with P. B. 0 6,471,627 lbs. or (107,860.3 bu.) Wheat sold locally 484,745 lbs. Shrinkage, waste and loss 37,966 " Total 6,994,338 lbs. or 116,572.3 bu. RESOURCES AND LIABILITIES RESOURCES— Balance on hand Dec. 31, 1919— all funds $304,057.44 Value of wheat on hand and wheat credits with P. B. O., Dec. 31, 1919 „ 193,339.46 Value of real estate, buildings and furniture 240,256.59 Value of invested funds... 44,328.66 Other resources 43,260.46 Total $825,242.61 LIABILITIES— Indebtedness „ $ 1,152.19 Balance, net resource 824,090.42 Total $825,242.61 STATISTICS. Membership Jan. 1, 1919: Officers......: 6,511 Teachers 13,890 THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 289 Members - 24,175 Admitted to membership during year 6,594 Total 51.170 Membership Dec. 31, 1919: Officers 6,670 Teachers 14,126 Members 24,617 TOTAL OR PRESENT MEMBERSHIP 45,413 Removed or resigned 5,128 Died 629 Total 51,170 General officers and Board members 23 Stake officers and Board members - 1,056 Number of meetings held 33,276 Average attendance at meetings 13,314 Number of Relief Society organizations 1,109 Number of L. D. S. families in Stakes 74,405 ACTIVITIES. Number of Relief Society Magazines taken 16,249 Days spent with the sick 44,023 Special visits to the sick 86,487 Families helped 5,152 Bodies prepared for burial - 2,551 Number of visits by Stake Relief Society officers to wards 5,614 Number of visits made by Relief Society ward teachers during the year 128,912 Number of days spent in Temple work 37,93* Assistance to missionaries or their families $5,551.96 RED CROSS AND LIBERTY BONDS. RED CROSS WORK— Number of Red Cross memberships taken by Ward Relief Society members 9,023 Number of Surgical Dressings 17,143 Number of Hospital Garments 5,074 Number of Hospital Supplies 3,617 Number of Knitted Articles 11,675 Number of Refugee Garments 17,742 Articles collected for Belgian Relief 53,131 LIBERTY BONDS— Amount subscribed by Ward Relief Societies 142,089.28 Amount subscribed by members of Ward Relief Societies $83,832.50 On Thatch Jower James H. Anderson. Ireland was in such a state of ferment during March as to be bordering upon civil war. Severe storms during March did much damage in the north central part of the United States. Railways in the United States were returned to the owners on March 1, to the satisfaction of shippers and the traveling public. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, formerly of Salt Lake City, and active in public affairs, died at Whitestone, N. Y., in March. Fire at Grandview, Texas, on March 15, destroyed the greater portion of the town and rendered 1,000 people homeless. Russia is now completely under control of the Bolshevik government, and attention is being given to spreading its propaganda among neighboring nations. Earthquakes were reported in southern Europe, southeastern Asia, and Central America in March, but none did serious damage. Prince William of Sweden started in March as the head of an expedition to explore Honduras, Central America. French public opinion became rather bitter toward the United States in March, owing to President Wilson characterizing as "militaristic" France's public policy. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS President MRS. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS First Counselor MRS. JULINA L. SMITH ------ Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN ----- General Secretary MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES... - Recording Secretary MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth SL Wilcox Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily St. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julla P.M. Farnsworth Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Miss Sarah Eddin&ton Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crimson Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Rebecca Nlebaur Nibley Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager ------ AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII May, 1920 No. 5 What Women Will Do With the Suffrage With the triumphant ratification of the suffrage amendment, the question everywhere in the East is, "What will women do with the suffrage?" It is rather a silly question for its answer is so obvious. Women will use the vote according to nature, inclination, marriage, and conditions, just as men do. For the machinery of government is necessarily conducted by chosen party representatives, who have different views on only one or two fundamental questions. In this country we call the two parties Republican and Democratic. In England people are classified politically as Conservatives and Liberals. As a rule the Conservatives in England and the Republicans in America cling to well established and safe policies in the managing of government affairs. Democrats and Liberals, as a rule, like to try out new ideas. Both sides are really necessary in the conduct of a republican form of government, for one party is a check upon the other. If there were no Democrats, the Republicans would possibly introduce few reforms, while if there were no Republicans the Democrats might introduce so many reforms that we would be trying everything once. The whole contention in heaven before this world was 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE created rested upon the doctrine of "common consent" and "free agency." We are to do right or we are to do wrong because we choose to do it or wish not to do it, and not because we are forced or coerced into doing so. The doctrine of "common consent" was revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the beginning of the Church (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 26), and it gave to this people for all time the fundamental principle of pure government. Under that law every woman quite as much as every man should have the right not only to vote for men and measures, in the Church and in the state, but she should also have the right, if she is foolish enough, to refuse to do anything at all about it. If she thus chooses to ignore her responsibilities she is a poor citizen the same as a man who does likewise. She may vote on the right side of a question or the wrong side of the question, just as a man may, according to her likes and her leanings. A right or privilege carries a responsibility, and when women receive the vote they receive with it a heavy responsibility to use it according to their best judgment. Utah women and "Mormon" women have long proved their honorable convictions on this matter. Seventy per cent of those who vote in this state are women and that not because of superior numbers but because more women take advantage of the right to vote. Woman's keen sympathy and reverence for truth and honor will make her susceptible to many sentimental mistakes not made by men. Women feel things as a rule, while men reason them out. Women throughout the United States will use the ballot much as women have done here in Utah. They will flock naturally into the two parties and it will be difficult indeed to make a sex matter of any question unless it comes to a question of moral issue like prohibition or tobacco. By the way, right there you have the test of a woman's attitude on public questions. You may prove to her that prohibition of liquor and of tobacco is un-American and not consistent with the legal right of the individual to do what he pleases. She may agree with you broadly, but she would vote for prohibition just the same if it would keep liquor away from her boys. Her sentiment for the moral issue is greater and deeper than her appreciation of the fundamental laws of individual right. Indeed it is quite probable that the women voters and women nonvoters brought about prohibition by mass sentiment, when men would have been helpless in their appeals to each other. One trouble in the East and South will be that the great mass of women are home keepers only and have not yet EDITORIAL 293 learned to take even a slight interest in political affairs. The present political situation for instance in the United States presidential arena will find her lost and puzzled. If she is a Republican and reads the "Metropolitan. Magazine," she learns of such fine things about General Wood, that she thinks he would make a great President. Again after she reads the "Saturday Evening Post," and some of the women's magazines, she wonders how it is that everybody can't see that Hoover is the only man for President of the United States. If she is a Democrat she may still lean a little toward Hoover, but wonders if President Wilson will not get well;  and then, after reading what the "Literary Digest" has compiled about McAdoo, she thinks McAdoo is the only man for President. She reads all sorts of articles furnished by Earl Gaddis and George Creele for the newspapers, and plate prints of country papers, which make out President Wilson and Senator Hitchcock to be plumed knights of some ancient tale. And then finally, she wonders what it's all about! Meanwhile her shrewd husband who has been out upon the street talking to men "in the know," comes home and completely upsets her ideas by telling her that Wood's rich friends have bought up the "Metropolitan" while the grain trust, which controls Hoover, has subsidized the "Saturday Evening Post," and several of the magazines. And she is told that President Wilson's and Mr. McAdoo's press agents, George Creel and Gaddis, have been denounced right in Congress as scoundrels and liars and goodness knows what all. What a terrible world this is after all. Why do men do as they do? She is told that politics is a game, and that old-fashioned political machines are in the discard, while men with barrels of suit money themselves. subsidize newspapers and mold people's opinion to By and by, will come sanity and poise. Women will get wise. They will learn to keep on asking questions about this man and that man, about this policy and that policy. The only way to learn is by inquiring from every point of view, from every side of opinion. After a while woman will become shrewd and will offer her own opinions until she is pretty well decided that this man or that man is about as good as can be found under the circumstances. For after all men who succeed in keeping a shred of character through the lime light of a political campaign can't any of them be very bad nor very un-American, depend upon that. You remember Abe Lincoln said, "You can fool all the people some of the time, and you can fool some of the people all of the time, but you can't fool all of the people all of the time." 294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Woman will rise to the heights of her womanhood in the simple and honest use of the ballot. She will vote in local matters as in national matters for the very best men and the very best measures that she can discover with her more or less limited opportunities. She will learn, she will progress, she will achieve, and her sons and sons' sons will be the better for her striving, her mistakes, and her final intelligent use of power. Even if she didn't do any of these things she has been given a right to vote or not to vote, to be good, or to be bad, without any man dictating to her or holding her in bondage. soon. So welcome home, old vote, you've come none too RULES FOR TABLE MANNERS. Gelett Burgess writing: The Maxims of Japhet, presents the following rules for table manners: My son, when thou sittest at meat with a damsel, have a care how thou eatest, lest thou offend her. For this is the test of love: whatsoever goeth into thy mouth and cometh out again, the same shall try her as with fire. And of these things shalt thou have a care: of the apple, and the orange, and the peach, and fruits with skins after their kind. The cherry and the plum and the olive and the apricot, and fruits with stones after their kind. The grape and the raspberry and the watermelon and fruits with seeds after their kind, of all these things shalt thou have a care. And whatsoever hath seeds or skins or stones, that thou spewest out of thy mouth, these shall be an abomination unto her, unless she love thee. Neither shalt thou pick thy teeth behind thy napkin;  it is abomination of abominations. And if thou cuttest thy potato or any vegetable with a knife, thou shalt be cast out into utter darkness. For she smileth with her lips and sayeth pleasant things;  yet doth her eyes watch thee, and her foot tappeth the floor. It is the end of love. Guide Lessons LESSON I. Theology and Testimony First Week in June. The Ready Reference. AIM: Of learning to discover the value of focusing scripture evidence. A compilation of information is extremely useful to students whose memories do not carry necessary passages of notice. and who desire scripture Missionaries compact reference and a students a moment's alike haveat found great value in the study and use of the "Church Compendium," and the "Ready Reference." Both these books contain compiled references on the subject of baptism for the dead, and while our lessons have contained most of these references the students will be repaid by a study of these books. Both of them give a simple, condensed view of the subject of baptism for the dead, and either would serve as a storehouse of information for one who greatly desired the help. The "Ready Reference" introduces the subject with a brief argument, and then carries forward the subject with appropriate quotations. The reference closes with some quotations from contemporary writers and a brief argument in favor of the principle. (From Ready References, page 128.) Note. — Prof. A. Hinderkoper, a German writer, says: "In the second and third centuries every branch and division of the Christian church, so far as their records enable us to judge, believed that Christ preached to the departed spirits." — "Haley's Discrepancies of the Bible." Bishop Alford says: "I understand these words (I Peter , 19) to say that our Lord in his disembodied state, did go to the place of detention of departed spirits, and did there announce his work of redemption;  preach salvation in fact, to the disembodied spirits of those who refused to obey the voice of God when the judgment of the flood was hanging over them." "While there are many professors of theology who attempt to explain away the words of Peter, or deny their evident 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE meaning, there are many others who are willing to admit that they mean what they say. The "Apostles' Creed," so frequently recited by the Church of England, states that Christ after being crucified, dead and buried, "descended into Hell," and the third day rose again from the dead. The third of the thirty-nine articles of religion accepted by all Episcopalians also says: "As Christ died for us, and was buried;  so also is it to be believed, that he went down into hell." Why Christ preached to the dead, though, or how they, not being baptized, could be saved, theologians of the day do not explain;  the idea of a vicarious baptism being performed by the living in their behalf is foreign to their creeds. Even the Romish church, as Bishop Milner in his "End of Religious Controversy," confesses, does not pretend to understand the doctrine of baptism for the dead, which was evidently well understood in Paul's day. "It is not unreasonable to infer that the prayers and penance offered in behalf of the dead by professing Christians during later ages, or other means resorted to for the purpose of redeeming the souls of dead friends from purgatory are perverted relics of the vicarious ordinance incidentally alluded to by Paul, as an argument in favor of the resurrection. The vicarious principle is by no means exceptional in the Gospel. Indeed, it lies at the very foundation of the Christian religion. The Savior did a vicarious work in redeeming mankind from the grave. It was customary also among ancient Israel for the tribe of Levi to engage in ordinances and ceremonies in behalf of the people. The mention of the scapegoat in the sixteenth chapter of Leviticus is another illustration of the same principle. And when the preaching to the spirits in prison is considered in connection with the ordinance of baptism for the dead mentioned by Paul, the vicarious means by which the prison doors are to be opened and salvation extended to those who have died without conforming to the ordinances of the Gospel become apparent. In view of the fact that the ordinance for the benefit of the dead, which existed anciently, had become so entirely lost sight of or changed, and that no person living upon the earth could explain authoritatively what was necessary in this connection, the importance and necessity of revelation upon the subject, such as is promised by Malachi, must be plain to every reasonable mind. — "Ready Reference." "Origen, who lived in the second century, taught a universal restoration, saying that when each sinner shall have received the penalty of his sins, that God will, through Christ, lead the whole universe to one end. Later, this doctrine was GUIDE LESSONS 297 condemned by the Church of England, but later again declared not contrary to her teachings. Prominent among the modern English divines who held out hope for the dead was Frederick W. Farrar, dean of Canterbury. He delivered five sermons in Westminster Abbey on 'Eternal Hope,' which have had wide publicity." QUESTIONS. 1. What is the value of focusing references on any given subject? 2. 3. Who Give the prepared table the "Ready Reference," and when? of contents? 4. What can you say of the article on baptism of the dead contained therein? 5. What are we told in the scriptures concerning the spirits in prison and their condition? Note. — It is well for us to inquire somewhat concerning the condition of those who depart this life without an opportunity of receiving the gospel. It is surprising the amount of evidence in the Bible and Doctrine and Covenants concerning this subject, and we recommend the class to read the whole article in the "Ready Reference." LESSON II. Book of Mormon— Bible Testimony First Week in June. SUBJECT: That day when the Book should come forth. TEXT: Isaiah 29:17-18;  Deuteronomy 28:15-68;  1 Kings 8:41, 42, 43;  "Millennial Star," volume 18, page 774;  volume 15, page 788;  "The Holy Land in Geography," volume 1, page 5;  "Popular and Critical Bible Encyclopedia," page 1276;  Zech. 2:1-5. AIM: Or central truth: All things, if we would understand their work together for the accomplishment of God's purposes. That the continuity, of this lesson, as well as the one to follow, may, without too much analytical effort, be perceived, and the stood dift'erent phases of each in their relations subject matter other, this be easily and lesson, under the one to follow, will be based upon the following propositions: 1. That the curse pronounced upon Israel and the Holy Land by Moses as recorded in Deuteronomy, chapter 28, has been fulfilled. 2. That the curse could be removed only by a power and 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE authority equal to or greater than that which invoked the curse. 3. That Solomon must have feared, and had reasons to believe that his people and their rich and fertile land were soon to feel the heavy hand of this curse as is evidenced by the dedicatory prayer of his magnificent and costly temple. (1 Kings 8.) 4. That Solomon in all probability foresaw the means by which the curse should be removed, and the redemption of the Holy Land insured, as is set forth in 1 Kings 8:41, 42, 43. 5. That Palestine, in the year 1841, was visited by Elder Orson Hyde, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, duly commissioned and clothed with authority and power to remove the curse and to dedicate the land for the return of scattered Israel. 6. That, since the dedication, the Holy Land has been and still is preparing for the reception of dispersed Israel. 7. That since the dedication particularly, Judah has been preparing for her return to the Holy Land. 8. That Isaiah specifically foreshadowed the time when the Book should come forth when he says: "Is it not yet a very little while, and Labanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest? And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the Book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness." (Isaiah 29:17, 18. 9. That Ezekiel is in perfect agreement with Isaiah when he foretells the bringing to light of the "Stick of Joseph in the hands of Ephraim," and the time when it should come forth, and the nature of the great event, the gathering of Israel, which should commence with the appearance of the Book. In Deuteronomy 28:15-68, there is recorded certain curses which were pronounced conditionally, by Moses upon the Israelites and their possessions, and also the land, whither they were going to occupy the Land of Palestine, or Canaan, and figuratively designated by Isaiah as Labanon. In verses 23 and 24 of the chapter, particularly, we get some idea of what shall befall the Holy Land because of the transgressions of Israel: "And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass, and the earth that is under thee, shall be iron. The Lord shall make the rain of thy land powder and dust;  from heaven shall it come down upon thee, until thou be destroyed." In other words, Moses gave the Israelites to understand that, if the time should ever come while they dwelt in the Promised Land when they would not hearken GUIDE LESSONS 299 unto the voice of the Lord their God, and observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which they had been commanded to observe then, among other great calamities that should come upon them, their land should be turned into a desert;  the heavens would be as brass, refusing to yield the dew and the earlier and later rains for which the land was noted, in consequence of which their land would become as powdered dust and as unproductive and unyielding as though it were iron. Up to the time that Solomon reigned, particularly, the Land of Palestine was to the Israelites a land flowing with milk and honey, so diversified in its surface and climate, and so rich in its soil that it was capable of producing in abundance, practically all the good things of earth. The time came, not suddenly but gradually, when this people forfeited their right to God's blessings. That the curse did weigh heavily upon this land and its unhappy people is evidenced by the following disinterested testimony: "But although the natives, from exasperation against their foreign conquerors and rulers, and the invaders who have so often overruled this scene of ancient blessings, have greatly reduced its prosperity, still I cannot comprehend how, not only scoffers like Voltaire, but early travelers, who doubtless intended to convey the truth, represent Palestine as a natural desert, whose soil never could have been first for profitable cultivation." ("Popular and Critical Bible Encyclopedia," page 1274). "Thus the hills were clad in former times most abundantly, and enriched and beautified with the fig-tree, the olive, and the vine, and it is in this way that the cultivation which survives is still carried on. But when the inhabitants were thinned out, and cultivation abandoned, the terraces fell to decay, and the soil which had collected on them was washed down into the valleys, leaving only the arid rock, bare and desolate. This is the general character of the hills of Judea;  but in some parts they are beautifully wooded, and in others the application of the ancient mode of culture suggests to the traveler how productive the country once was, and how fair the aspect which it offered." ("Popular and Critical Bible Encyclopedia," page 1276). "Palestine was formerly anything but the barren country it now is. In the Negeib (south country), remains of large trees are still found. Jole's description of the products of Edom, where he probably lived, are beyond its present climatic possibilities. Whence the change? Originally covered with forests, on man's advent and the development of the civilization we find recorded on the monuments prior to Israel's 300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE occupation nudation commenced. This progressed with extraordinary rapidity during the reign of Solomon. In the times of the Assyrians and after the fall of Jerusalem, its population was deported, irrigation was suspended, the rains falling on unproductive slopes washed the soil down into the valleys, and the hills became bare as today." ("The Holy Land in Geography," volume 1, page 5.) Here we have Palestine, barren and sterile, and its inhabitants these many centuries scattered among all nations. How shall these conditions be changed? How shall Lebanon be delivered from its barrenness and sterility? Not by any authority or power that man may possess in and of himself;  but by an authority and power equal to or greater than the power and authority that was responsible for the imposition of these conditions. About the first thing Jesus did when he entered upon his ministry was to abrogate or rescind the Mosaic law which was in force and which exacted "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth," and supplanted it by the law of love — doing good to them that bore hatred, loving one's neighbor as himself, and loving one another even as Christ had loved, which was to the uttermost. John, although he preceded the Master and prepared the way for his coming and had the power and authority to cry the world to repentance, to baptize those who brought forth fruit for repentance, and to bear witness of him who came after, did not possess the authority to make void the Mosaic law — it took a higher authority. And while good men like Luther, John Wesley and many others of their type, may have had the inclination and the desire to officiate in Palestine's behalf, they were powerless to do so because they lacked the divine commission. Solomon not only feared and had reasons to believe that his people and their rich and fertile land were soon to feel the heavy hand of the curse pronounced by Moses long since, but may he not also have foreseen, with a vision astounding in its clearness, the means by which the curse would eventually be removed and the redemption of the Holy Land assured as is indicated in his dedicatory prayer of his magnificent and costly temple. ( Kings, chapter 8.) This prayer was a long series of pleadings with the God of his fathers, in behalf of his unfortunate people to the end that God would not forget them when their long years of suffering and chastisement should be ended by their humility and repentance. More specifically it was a veritable wrestling with God that he would not turn a deaf ear to the prayers of Israel and that he would have respect for "a stranger, that is not of thy GUIDE LESSONS 301 cometh out of a far country for thy name's people sake (for they but Israel, shall hear of thy great name, and of thy strong hand, and of thy stretched out arm; ) when he shall come and pray toward this house;  hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place, and according to all that the stranger calleth to thee for;  that all people of the earth may know thy name, to fear thee, as do thy people Israel;  and that they may know that this house, which I have builded. is called by thy name." The foregoing, some may contend, may be interpreted as applying to "strangers" in a general way. But the thought remains, nevertheless, that Solomon was specific concerning "a stranger" when "he shall come and pray toward this house," and he was just as specific and definite in his supphcation to the Lord, when that event should take place, "and do according to all that the stranger calleth to thee for." Be that as it may, "a stranger," duly commissioned and clothed with the necessary authority, did go to the Holy Land with the fixed purpose and definite mission to pray "toward that house" that the curse which was upon the land might be removed. This stranger came out of "a far country" and was not of the people Israel, but came by the way of the Gentiles. He had received his power and authority from the Prophet of the last dispensation, who. in turn, received it from Moses when the Law Giver of Ancient Israel visited the prophet and delivered to him the keys of the gathering, without which Judah must remain scattered throughout all nations and her ancient land of promise continue to be barren and sterile. On Sunday morning, October 24, 1841, before it was yet day, Orson Hyde, one of the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, went out of the city of Jerusalem, crossed the brook Cedron and went upon the Mount of Olives, and there, in solemn silence, offered up a prayer in behalf of this stricken land and nation. (See April "Relief Society Magazine," 1919.) On the top of Mount Olives, Elder Hyde erected a pile of stones as a witness according to ancient custom. On what was anciently called Mount Zion, where the temple stood, he erected another monument of stones and used the measuring rod as predicted upon his head and in fulfilment of the prophecy contained in Zech. 2:1-5: "I lifted up mine eyes again, and looked, and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand. Then said I, Whither goest thou? And he said unto me. To measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof. And, behold, the angel that talked with me went forth, and another angel went out to meet him, and said unto him: Run. 302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as towns without walls for the multitude of men and cattle therein." (Zech. 2:1-5). Note 1. Propositions 6, 7, 8 and 9 will be considered in our next lesson. Note. 2. It will be well to keep in mind that this lesson does not seek to dispose of the subject finally, but should be studied with the thought in mind that the subject will be conclusively embraced in our lessons next fall, and which, therefore, will be a continuation of this lesson. LESSON . Literature (Optional) "The Princess." Our first lesson told us that Tennyson was a past master at writing narrative. "The Princess" is an excellent example of the poet's skill with this important literary form. As this lesson is in course of preparation thirty-five states have ratified the suffrage amendment. When thirtysix shall have ratified the amendment, it will be part of the constitution of the United States. We devoutly hope that when this lesson is given, suffrage will have been obtained and the long struggle be over. In 1847, Tennyson wrote "The Princess," a poem that was regarded as extremely radical at the time. Indeed, Tennyson was heart-broken at the very cold reception it received at its publication. This cold reception, was due. in the main, to the fact that critics and readers of the old school dreaded any thought that advocated in any way the emancipation of women. A very attractive introduction, full of typical English atmosphere, leads to the story proper, which is the story of a princess who obtained her father's consent to use some castles belonging to his realm to found and build a college for women. Ida is the princess. When a mere infant she was betrothed by proxy to a prince of a northern clime. When the day drew nigh that the prince should wed, his father sent ambassadors with gifts to fetch her. The presents brought from Ida's father another present and a vague reply, confessing to the promise, but saying that his daughter had a will. GUIDE LESSONS 303 When the prince's father received the letter, he swore, "that he would send a hundred thousand men and bring her in a whirlwind." The prince felt that there must be some mistake in the matter and pleaded to go and see what he might do. He went to the count, there feasted for several days, made his request, and from her father came this reply: "I would you had her, prince, with all my heart," but my daughter "begged a boon a certain summer palace which I have, to found a university." So the prince with two of his companions made up their minds to visit the college. For this purpose they purchased female apparel, and succeeded in this disguse in entering the college. They visited the classes, and for some time concealed their sex with fair success. They have a detailed account of lady Psyche's class and of the instruction given. In the course of her lecture, "dilating on the future," she said: "Everywhere, two heads in council, two beside the hearth. Two in the liberal offices of life. Two plummets dropped for one to sound the abyss." After the evening meal the students who had wondered somewhat from their castle haunts, began to sing for pleasure and for pastime. The princess inquired of the newcomers, "If they knew no song, the true growth of their soil, that gave the manners of their country-women?" Under the spell of her summons, the prince could not recall such a song • but Cyril, one of the prince's companions, began to troll a careless cavern-catch of Moll and Meg, a strange experience unmeet for ladies. The singing developed the secret that the new students were not young women but men. The princess, full of wrath and indignation Then she commanded at the imposition, women tocried out, their mount "Torbeau horses sex." and flee. She was "blind with rage," and when she attempted to cross the water, "missed the plank and rolled into the river." The prince, all gallantry, caught her, as he tells us, "Oar in one arm, and bearing in his left, the weight of all the hopes of half the world." After a severe struggle in the water, he gave her to her maids who with much care revived her and she lived. Then came the prince's father, impatient at such female foolishness, intent on storming the castle and laying bare the land. At his threat of war, the brothers of the princess took arms in their sister's behalf, and the prince was forced to enter in the lists against them. 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In the combat the prince is wounded, and many others of those who fought. Then the princess throws the doors of the college open and tells the young women of the school to take the wounded and give them every care. The princess asks for permission to nurse the prince, and is at first refused by his father, who thinks she is unsexed and greatly to be feared. Later, he yields, and the princess nurses him through an illness of much delirium, fearing constantly his death. At last the prince roused, and uttered whisperingly: "If you be what I think you, some sweet dream, I would but ask you to fulfil yourself. But if you be that Ida whom I knew, I ask you nothing;  only, if a dream, sweet dream, be perfect, I shall die tonight, stoop down and seem to kiss me ere I die.' "And I believe that in the living world my spirit closed with Ida's at the lips." "I could no more, but lay like one in trance." "Deep in the night I woke, she near me, held a volume of the poets of her land;  there to herseif, all in low tones she read." Then the prince, realizing the things that had inflamed her soul, and all the weight of sorrow that she bore, said to her, "Blame not thyself too much, nor blame too much the sons of men and barbarous laws. These were the rough ways of the world till now. Henceforth thou hast a helper, me, that knows the woman's cause is man's;  they rise or sink together, dwarfed or godlike, bond or free." If she be small, slight matured, miserable, how shall men grow? But work no more alone: "Let her make herself her own." To give or keep, to live and learn and be all that not harms distinctive womanhood. For woman is not undeveloped man. But diverse;  could we make her as the man, sweet love was slain;  his dearest bond is this;  not like to like but like in difference. Yet in the long years liken must they grow. The man be more of woman, she of man. He gain in sweetness and in moral height, nor lose the wrestling the news that throw the world. She, mental breadth, nor fail in childward care, nor lose the childlike in the larger mind;  till at the last she set herself to man. "Like perfect music unto noble words." Then comes the statelier Eden back to men. Then reigns the world's great bridals, chaste and calm;  Then springs the crowning race of humankind. May these things be? Sighing she spoke, "I fear they will not!" Dear, but let us type them now in our own lives. GUIDE LESSONS 305 Again she spoke — "A dream that once was mine! What woman taught you this?" The prince answers her by telling her all his life he has had such ideas. His last words to her are "My bride, my wife, my life." O, we will walk this world yoked in all exercise of noble end, and so through those dark gates across the wild that no man knows. Indeed, I love thee;  come, yield thyself up;  my hopes and thine are one, accomplish thou my manhood and thyself. "Lav thy sweet hands in mine and trust to me. "This poem is noted for its wonderful songs or lyrics. "Sweet and Low," "Blow Bugle," and "Tears, Idle Tears," are lyrics of the vey) highest order. During the early days of the fight made for suffrage in Great Britain, speakers very frequently made use of lines from "The Princess" in their addresses, but before the struggle was over they came to feel that "The Princess" was too mild and conservative for their purpose, so the poem fell into disuse on the suffrage platform. Nevertheless, it is only fair to say, that no matter how conservative some may think the poem is at this date, it is true that Tennyson was one of the very first men of consequence in Great Britain who asked that women be given extended privileges, whose voice was raised for their emancipation. Many of the lines, both in the narrative and in the lyrics, are most exquisite;  they are literary gems of a very high order. Note that these lines, while they carry on the narrative, are also replete with disappointment: But Ida, with a voice that, like a bell tolled by an earthquake in a trembling tower, rang ruin, answered full of grief and scorn. A lyric must be pronounced in its musical quality. Note the musical effect and the beauty of the imagery, in these lines taken from Tennyson's wonderful lyric: "The splendor falls on castle walls, And snowy summits old in story;  And the long light shakes across the lakes. And the wild cataract leaps in glory;  Blow, bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying, Blow, bugle, answer echoes, dying, dying, dying. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. L Have "Sweet and Low" and "Blow Bugle" sung during the meeting*. If that is not possible, have some good 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE reader, read them to the class. It will be easier to have "Sweet and Low" sung than "Blow Bugle." 2. How many years is it since Tennyson published "The Prince ss?" • 3. How many years since the women of Utah first voted? 4. What western commonwealth began its history the year of the publication of "The Princess?" 5. Has the civilized world pretty generally realized Ida's dream in the matter of opening colleges to women? 6. Are men and women co-operating in the world's work more in these latter days than formerly? 7. Do you think the Relief Society has broadened woman's sphere? If so, tell why, and give examples. 8. Ida loved Psyche's body;  read lines 175 to 179 in section six of "The Princess." 9. What three references are made to flowers in this passage? Tennyson was a keen observer of nature. Some of his critics say he never made a mistake in his reference to nature. 10. Beginning with lines 239, section seven, we have the prince's of plan think it? for righting woman's wrongs, what do you We wish that the lesson might inspire the reading of the poem at home, as these lessons permit only a brief outline of so long a lesson, LESSON IV. (Required.) Social Service Fourth Week in May. HEALTH. (School Lunches.) The Lunch at Home. The child whose school is so located as to admit of his going home to lunch every day is indeed fortunate, particularly so if the older members of the family can be at home also, as the middle of the day is thought to be the best time for the family dinner. But even if the older members of the family must be away it is still advantageous for the little ones to lunch at home since it gives an opportunity for the warm lunch so essential to the best nourishment of the child. A single warm dish is sufficient, provided it be a nourishing one, and is supplemented by bread and butter and fruit or Other simple dessert. Suitable dishes are the cream soups, GUIDE LESSONS 307 such as cream of potato, of tomato, of celery, of split peas, etc. ;  or the chowders, such as corn or clam, where milk is the chief ingredient. Another great advantage in having the children lunch at home is that it gives the mother a chance to train them in right habits of eating without their being embarrassed by the presence of adults. It is important that the table be set as carefully and daintily for this lunch as for any other meal, and the food served with as great care. The children can in most instances do this work, the training will be of great value to them later and will prevent the bolting of food, together with other bad eating habits such as snatching up part of the meal to be eaten on the way back to school. The Basket Lunch. The lunch which a child carries to school should consist of two parts — the main or solid part, and the dessert, both of which should be simple but wholesome, attractive and appetizing. The main part of the lunch should consist of bread and butter together with some protein food. These may or may not be combined to form sandwiches. Slices of graham bread and butter between which crisp leaves of lettuce are laid, and a boiled egg with salt, form an attractive lunch. The attractiveness is increased if the egg is made into stuffed egg by removing yolk, mixing with a little salt, mustard, vinegar and butter, and replacing in the white. Using the boiled egg chopped fine as a foundation, many appetizing sandwiches may be made;  for example, the egg is moistened with milk or cream and a little chopped celery or parsley added;  the egg moistened with salad dressing, either plain or with chopped olives, and so on. Other good mixtures for sandwich filling are: Grated cheese moistened with milk or salad dressing;  variety is obtained by adding chopped nuts, chopped pimento, chopped green peppers, lettuce, parsley, chopped dates, etc.. peanut butter with which milk has been mixed until a creamy consistency is obtained;  chopped nuts with salad dressing, either plain or with chopped dates, raisins. etc. ;  ground meat with salad dressing. Boston baked beans mashed and spread between thin slices of brown bread make nourishing and appetizing sandwiches. The woman who lives in town and has the city markets at her command has little trouble in providing a variety of delightful lunches if she can but give the matter a little time and attention. But the woman who lives in isolated sections must do much careful planning and preserving of various 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kinds of food during their proper season in order to secure variety during the winter. The preservation of fruits of all kinds is almost a tradition, but it is only within recent times that we have come to preserve some of the protein foods when they are most plentiful for times when they are less so. For example, the storing of eggs during early spring for use in fall and early winter. . So important has this industry become, especially in country places where the local supply must be relied upon to meet local needs, that the Utah Experiment Station has issued a bulletin which is sent gratis to those asking for it, in which formulae are given and the method of preserving eggs by means of water glass is described. The basket lunch dessert may consist simply of fruit, an apple, an orange, a banana for older children;  or fruit and cookies;  cup custard, etc. School Lunch Needs. No matter how much care is taken in preparing the basket lunch there is still something to be desired for the best nourishment of the child, especially in cold weather. Where it is possible to supplement the basket lunch with a glass of warm milk, or a bowl of soup, the children will be likely to stand the cold much better and be more resistant to disease of all kinds. But the nearest approach to ideal home conditions is provision at school for warm lunch served in a comfortably warm room and under the supervision of persons who understand child nature and know something of the nutritional needs of school children. How These Needs are Being Met. The serving of lunches to children at school had its origin in the idea of improving the public health by providing food for children who could not, or did not, obtain sufficient nourishment at home, and the movement has as yet progressed but little beyond that stage, even though it dates back to the seventeenth century in France and England, and to the eighteenth century in Germany. Great impetus was given the movement in England when it was found at the opening of the Boer war that a large per cent of the British soldiers were found to be totally unfit for service, this discovery leading to legislation which made it compulsory for municipalities to care for its necessitous children. In only a few places in our own enlightened country are far-sighted ones beginning to realize that children in so-called well-to-do districts are sometimes as much in need of the GUIDE LESSONS 309 school lunch as are the children of the slums, because, as has already been pointed out in a former lesson, undernourishment may be the result of ignorance or indifference on the part of parents as well as of actual poverty. When we reach a stage in our social evolution in which warm lunches are provided for all school children regardless of economic and social status, we may look for a vast improvement in the public health. The Special Problem of the City. Located opposite a number of Salt Lake City's public schools, and doubtless those of other towns and cities in the intermountain region also, is one of the greatest menaces to the health of the school child — one of the greatest because it is apparently unrecognized and unheeded. Reference is made to the little wooden candy shop, where for a penny or two a child may get highly colored candies, cheaply and poorly made sodas, gum, candied pop corn, licorice, etc. No matter how carefully a mother prepares her children's basket lunches, no matter what provision tries to make for the sweets necessary to a normal child appetite, no matter how hard she tries to guide wisely the expenditure of her children's chance pennies, there are always enough unsupervised children in a school to make the corner candy stand popular, and the child who has no pennies to invest there is a social outcast. The evils of the candy habit were discussed in a former lesson, so it should be necessary here only to call attention to the dangers of impaired digestion, bad teeth with their attendant ills whose name is legion which may follow patronage of the corner shop in order to arouse mothers to the point of launching a crusade against this menace. Its proximity to the school building is a reflection on the interest of mothers in the welfare of their own children as well as upon the health administration of the city. How the Problem Might Be Attacked. In the first place mothers might see that their children are so well nourished and the sweet tooth so well supplied with wholesome sweets that the temptation to patronize the corner shop will be greatly diminished;  second, she might try to keep in the child's confidence with reference to all money expenditures, and teach him to say "no" stoutly when offered unwholesome sweets by others. Co-operation of the teachers might be solicited through the medium of the parent-teachers' associations in influencing children to withhold patronage from the corner shop. Finally, a movement might be set on foot for establishment of some means whereby a warm nour- 516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE icing dish might be supplied to supplement the basket lunch. It would be an interesting development if owners of the candy shops could be prevailed upon to substitute warm wholesome foods for the trash they now handle. In some of the schools may be found well equipped domestic science departments which are used not more than two afternoons a week. To the observer it would seem that there is no valid reason why these departments could not be used every noon time for preparing and serving suitable dishes to supplement the basket lunch. In some instances women living near schools and having some spare time have undertaken to prepare simple lunches which they have sold at nominal prices. In other cases public spirited women have opened their homes to responsible committees of mothers for the purpose of preparing such lunches. The history of the school lunch movement in America shows that it has required some such movement as suggested above to awaken school boards and municipalities to the importance of providing lunches for school children, and there is a strong probability that history will have to repeat itself in this intermountain region. QUESTIONS. 1. Discuss the advantages of school children lunching at home where possible. 2. In your opinion, is it worth while to go to the trouble of serving these lunches daintily when possible? 3. What are the requisites of a good basket lunch? 4. Suggest good sandwich mixtures — preferably original. 5. Discuss the problem of the country woman in providing variety in the basket lunch. 6. Why is it desirable to supplement the basket lunch with a warm dish? 7. How may teachers, if so inclined, contribute to the value of the basket lunch? 8. What is the origin of the school lunch idea? How old is it? 9. State something of its progress. 10. Are there any provisions for school lunches, or for supplementing basket lunches in your locality? 11. Why need of additional of nourishment? are children the so-called "well-to-do" often in 12. Have you the problem of the corner candy shop in your town? 13. What are your best means of combatting it? The Relief Society Magazine Office has on hand the following  bound volumes of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, of which they will be glad to dispose at the prices cited below:  1 vol. of 1914, Leather Bound @. 1.75 $2.00 15 " " 1915, Cloth Bound 1916, Leather Bound @.. 2.00 2.00 " 1917, Leather Bound @. 1918, Leather Bound  2.00 1919, Leather Bound 2.25 15c extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream  Special attention given to parcel post candy orders  I P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake The UTAH Gospel Doctrine STATE NATIONAL I Selections from Sermons and  I Writings  Smith. of President Joseph F.  BANK The Melchizedek Priesthood The officers are  Quorums have adopted GOSPEL I always glad to DOCTRINE as a text for class  meet customers study for the next two years and discuss  contains 700 pages, with a business plans  I photogravure Frontispiece and  with them autograph of President Smith.  OFFICERS Handsome bound in cloth, $1.50   Heber J. Grant, President postpaid.  Charles W. Nibiev, Vice President  Get the "Guide" to with It.  I William R. Wallace, Vice President   Price 15c.   Henry T. McEwan, V. Pres. and Cash DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier IVIAIN STREET Samuel H. Keddington, Assistant Cash THE SPRING QUARTER AT THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE opens March 8 This presents an excellent opportunity to begin or continue your College career. Collegiate and Vocational courses open in every department in the Institution. I For detailed information address the President's  XX  Office Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah It Is Good Taste - To Eat Food - That Tastes Good  "DICKINSON'S" Choice meats and fancy groceries  I are of the very best quality.  I We extend our effort in giving satisfactory service. Phone Hyland 60 680 East 2nd South St. ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 19, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH VOLUME VII $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c NUMBER 5.JUNE, 1 920 Latter-day I APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Saints Garments Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 20c extra to Canada or Mexico. These Approved Temple Garments are Knitted and made right here! our own UTAH FACTORY to your special order and measurements. Lowest prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw It in the "Relief Society Magazine." a I Look for the APPROVED  No. 11 Light weight cotton $2.2S  Light weight, cotton bleached 92.50  00 Medium weight cotton 2.75 1 I 22 Medium weight cotton bleached 2.75 90 Heavy weight cotton 3.25 f  24 Heavy weight cotton bleached 8.7S  60 Extra white double, bleached mere 6.00  10 Medium weight -wool mixture 6.00  I 16 Heavy weight wool 6.00 1 I 18 Extra heavy wool 7.00  Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than  64-in., or 44-in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c  extra per suit, we make any size desired. §  Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of  shoulder down to inside of ankle. Orders for less than two garments not accepted. s  Infant Shirts — Silkaline and Lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age.  MODEL I KNITTING Franklyn Christianson, Manager WORKS 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah  Phone Hy. 616  The way the demand for I Columbia Grafonolas is opening up there a likelihood of a shortage in January. The Columbia Patronize Neighborhood Grafonola is a Grocer real treat. Ask him for— I Tell us to send a Columbia  ROYAL BREAD I Grafonola to your home for a DAYS' FREE TRIAL. The bread that made his mother down $10 a month  I —a delicious loaf—  I light, appetizing, digestible  I Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE  A REAL self filling guaranteed to satisfy.  I "MAMMA Ask about it.  make a big pan of Doughnuts Write about it.  — let the kiddies eat them, and then ask them if good cooking can be accomplished with 64 Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah Extra Fine Table and preserving N. J. Duller, Proprietor SUGAR I Manufactured by the  I Utah-Idaho Sugar Company  State  CAFETERIA I READ I AND SODA FOUNTAIN "LoveBy and O. F. the Whitney Light"  $1.25 at the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION  I BOOK STORE  Phone Was. 2444 ' 121 Main St. I The Book Store of Salt Lake City    I 44 East on South Temple Street Optical Company SALT LAKE'S LEADING OPTICIANS Established 25 Years Louis A. James Manager 11 EAST 2nd SOUTH (Walker Bank Bldg.) SALT LAKE CITY  Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints. CONTENTS JUNE, 1920 Page Just Trust Julia Farr 311 General Conference of the Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman 313 Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson 362 On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson 366 Editorial 368 Child's Right to Happiness Ida Smoot Dusenberry 370 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who patronize us. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main St. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 6 Main St. D. D. FELT CHEMICAL MFG. CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., 11 East 2d South. KEELEY'S ICE CREAM, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, 64 Main St. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson. ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City. S. S. DICKINSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City. STATE CAFETERIA, 121 Main St. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East on South Temple. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. JUST TRUST. By Julia Farr. No matter how dark the way may seem, * There's a place for God's love to shine through. Your heart may be cold from life's sullen stream, — Then just strive your whole duty to do. And as you go on, just grope for the Right, Though the darkness your soul will dismay, No sorrow on earth is perpetual night, — God's love brings the Dawn of the Day. Though friends have deserted or have made you sad. Don't let bitter thoughts hold you long bound, For the future holds more than you ever have had, — Search for treasures;  they'll surely be found. The treasures of earth? No, they perish with men. But the pearls of great price are yours. And the light of God's love will lead you, — 'till then — You will find All on Eternity's shores. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VII