[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic
JANUARY
Proverbs 25:21-22
"If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink: For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the Lord shall reward thee."
THIS Proverb reverses the old Mosaic law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth and admonishes the Christ-like forgiveness taught later by the Master. If it were carried out, there could be no hatred nor strife. It gives the remedy for malice and ill will and gives a panacea for the one who has done wrong to be regenerated. It softens his hardness, makes him penitent and eager to make amends. How much sweeter is the life of one who practices this Proverb, for Milton truly says,
"Revenge at first though sweet Bitter 'ere long back on itself recoils."
The Christ taught us to pray, "Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against us." If we believe that we shall receive as we measure, then even from a selfish standpoint, we should be kind and forgiving. The greatest blessing our Father can give to us for obedience to His teachings is to transform our characters and make us partakers of His Divine nature. When we forgive one who has wronged us a feeling of tenderness and love brings joy far surpassing the spirit of vindictiveness.
Topics and Questions for Discussion
1. Relate instances where this Proverb has been obeyed. What were the results?
2. Explain the figure "coals of fire."
3. Read Proverbs 24:28-29; 17:5.
4. Read the story of the unmerciful servant.
5. What do passion, revenge, wrath, vengeance call forth?
6. Dwell on the beautiful lesson Whittier gives us in these lines:
"My heart was heavy, for its trust had been Abused, its kindness answered with foul wrong;
So, turning gloomily from my fellow-men, One summer Sabbath day I strolled among The green mounds of the village burial-place; Where, pondering how all human love and hate Find one sad level; and how, soon or late, Wronged and wrongdoer, each with meekened face, And cold hands folded over a still heart, Pass the green threshold of our common grave, Whither all footsteps tend, whence none depart, Awed for myself, and pitying my race, Our common sorrow, like a mighty wave, Swept all my pride away, and trembling I forgave!"
How may we cultivate the spirit of forgiveness?
The Blue Bird?Maurice Maeterlinck
"The Blue Bird" belongs to the modern literature of childhood's dreamland. It is an allegorical fantasy upon the theme of all Maeterlinck's dramas, the search for ideal happiness. From one of the author's essays "Luck in the Buried Temple" we find this significant expression "Let us unweariedly follow each path that leads from our consciousness to our unconsciousness.... At the end lies hidden the general secret of life," and Man's destiny.
Maurice Maeterlinck (mah ter lee nk) was born at Ghent, in Flanders in 1862. In the garden of his well-to-do parents he learned to dream with out-going ships, later the dark canals and narrow streets filled him with mystery. At a Jesuit school with its severity, bitterness was added to the youthful experience. In 1886
Maeterlinck went to Paris to become connected with the idealists and symbolists of the new school of writers. Upon his return to Belgium he began to write, at first poems and then dramas. This early work was marked by a definite pessimism; but always there was a striving for that Truth which is Beauty. In 1912 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature.
Maeterlinck is a seer of the future apart from his dramas. It has been said what Goethe was to the culture of Europe in the opening of the nineteenth century, Maeterlinck is today. It may be said of him, as it was said of Goethe, that he has brought us to the shores of the sea of serenity. The product of Maeterlinck's second period of literary activity is marked by a serenity, the understanding of Man's destiny. Of the man, Maeterlinck, nothing but good is known; his life proclaimed the ideals of his writings. Today he is considered with George Meredith, and Henrick Ibsen as one of the
great modern interpreters of life.
The Blue Bird
This fairy play in five acts is an epitome of the ideas of Maeterlinck. The characters are ideas personified. The play was first produced at the Art Theatre in Moscow in 1908. In London in 1909 the play drew thousands to its boards.
In dreamland Tyltyl and Mytyl, the children of two old peasants, are visited by the fairy Berylyne, who sends them in quest of the Blue Bird The fairy explains that if they can find the Blue Bird they will see all and know all?it is the great secret of things and happiness. The children are accompanied on the quest by Light the Dog, the Cat, Sugar, Bread, Fire, Water, and Milk. They journey first to the Land of Memory and meet their grandparents. The children are given a bird which is quite blue, but when they leave the land it becomes quite black.. The wanderings continue until the Land of Night is reached. Night resents Man's efforts through the ages to rid her of her terrors. The children search for the Blue Bird in the Caverns of the Ghosts, the Wars, the Shade, the Terrors, and the Mysteries. They seize eagerly the birds they find, but when they bring them to the light they are dead, they could not live in the light of day.
The children pass on in search of the Enchanted Palaces where all men's joys, all men's happinesses are gathered together in the charge of Fate. First, they go to the Hall of Luxuries of the Earth and search the banquet halls of the revellers, but the Blue Bird is not there. Next they interview the Happinesses,?the Happiness of Home, the Happiness of Well-Being, etc.; and then the Great Joys, the Joy of Maternal Love, the Joy of Understanding, etc. In the end they arrive at the Kingdom of the Future.
In the Azure Palace of the Kingdom of the Future they find the children who await the hour of their birth: Each is discussing what he will do during his earth-life. They are all wondering while they wait if they will receive "Some little plan or chart, Some fragment from their dream of human life." Father Time arrives and in a galley with white and gold sails, he takes a cargo of babies to Earth. Songs of waiting mothers are heard coming through the rosy mists of dawn as the galley nears its destination.
In the Kingdom of the Future there are also other figures, figures of silent beauty clad in azure. These are the matured spirits reserved for the earth at appointed times. The Children, Tyltyl, and Mytyl are discovered by Father Time who wonders why they are not blue. Light protects them from Time's gaze, as she assures them that she has caught the Blue Bird. All return to Earth.
The children awaken in the cottage now illumined by a strange beauty. When Madam Berlingot, a neighbor enters, she is first mistaken for the fairy Berylyne. Tyltyl offers his own little turtle-dove for the sick child. In a moment the miracle happens "the little child enters, the Blue Bird in her arms." As the children try to feed the Blue Bird it flies away. "Never mind," says Tyltyl reassuringly. "I will catch him again."
Of the production of the play with its. Possibilities for beauty in the ethereal Palace, Forest and Magic Garden scenes much can be said. Never before did poet give such possibilities for scenic images and impelling hues. Of the dramatic productions it has been recorded "Children sat spellbound and speechless in contemplation of this youthful modern quest of a new Holy Grail, while
men and women read therein the meanings vouchsafed them by their own life quests."
With easy dialogue, simple allegory and delicate humor, Maeterlinck has endeared himself to all who engage in the quest of Happiness by reading "The Blue Bird."
"O restless fancy, whither wouldst thou fare? Here are brave pinions that should take thee far." ?Aldrich.
Note:?This is the second part of the lesson The Magic of Imagination.
A Midsummer Night's Dream
Shakespeare found the magic material for his most imaginative drama, "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in the gentle and lovable superstitions of fairy mythology. The popular explanation concerning the origin of fairies seems to be of Scandinavian birth, and it is pagan in character. Shakespeare took this fairy lore and gave it new charm by remodeling and invention. Thus in the play we see fairies making midnight mushrooms, hanging pearls in cowslip's ears, stealing honey bags from bees and flowers, hiding in acorns, girdling the earth in forty minutes, and singing Queen Titania to sleep nightly. The names given to the fairy characters in the play, the elves of hills, brooks, and groves carry a charm with them?Oberon, Titania, Puck, Cobweb, Robin Goodfellow, Pease Blossom, Moth Mustardseed, Cricket, Queen Mab?all fairies who with "printless feet" dance to the music of the spheres.
This fairy carnival, a miracle of happy inspiration, seems to have been written for the marriage festivities planned for two of Shakespeare's patrons, Lord Southampton and the Earl of Essex.
The Play. Theseus, Duke of Ath-
ens, the conqueror of the Amazons, wins their queen, Hippolyta, for his bride. Amusements are ordered for part of the wedding festivities. Aside from the court activities, the peasants plan a play to be directed by Bottom, the weaver.
The loyal friend of Theseus, Lysander, is having difficulty with his love affairs as the father of Hermia demands that his daughter marry Demetrius, beloved by Helena. In the forest King Oberon and Queen Titania's love is not running smoothly. The mischievous Puck decides to set things in order by teaching his mistress a lesson. He has found a love-juice which he is going to pour upon her eyes when she is asleep, in order that she will love the first thing she sees upon awakening. In the forest Puck comes upon Helena and Demetrius who are quarreling, so he plans to help them also. Later Lysander and Hermia come to the forest to escape the cruelty of Hermia's father. Puck uses his love-juice upon Lysander instead of Demetrius, who upon awakening sees first Helena. A strange turn of events now, and Demetrius is free to make love to Hermia.
Meanwhile Puck continues his mischief. Finding Bottom, the weaver, and the players rehearsing, he crowns him with an ass's head, then leads him to where Titania is sleeping. Upon awakening, the Queen of the Fairies loves the first thing she sees, the human ass. All is confusion. Oberon at Titania's love, Hermia at Lysander's love for Helena. The Duke out in the forest on an early morning hunting trip discovers the trouble. Puck repairs his mischief and all are restored to normal understanding of their love, and Bottom to his normal form. The Duke listens to the plea of Lysander and Hermia and consents to their betrothal. The wedding feast is planned
now for three couples. The village players present their comic tragedy, "Pyramus and Thisbe." Then the fairies dance through the palace bringing omens of blessing and goodwill for the wedded ones.
"And as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothings A local habitation and a name."
THE MAGIC OF IMAGINATION
Guide to Preparation
A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments.
1. The Magic of Fairy Lore
2. The Beauty of Symbolism
3. "The Blue Bird"?Maeterlinck A brief review of the story
4. Review: "The Midsummer Night's Dream"
5. The Dramatic values of Symbolical Plays as "Peter Pan" and "The Blue Bird"
Guide to Reading
A. "Peter Pan" For the family circle. A beautiful story of the land where a youth never grows old.
B. "The Life of the Bee," Maeterlinck A work well known to our girls by the author of "The Blue Bird."
C. "The Celtic Twilight," Yeats A collection of tales and plays of fairy lore from the twilight days of the Celtic race. No race has retained the youthful zest for fairy lore as has the Irish people.
D. "Chanticler," Rostand This French dramatist has used the simple story used by Chaucer and with barnyard characters portrayed man and his faith.
 
Bibliography for March
IN publishing the Bibliography of our Literary Lessons in the June number of our Magazine the March lesson was omitted, so we print it herewith:
The Lesson for March
El Dorado. Kipling.
Kipling's Poems. Puck of Pook's Hill. Captain Courageous. Kim. Plain Tales from the Hills. Jungle Stories. The Year's Between. Barrack-Room Ballads. The Recessional. Life's Handicaps. Wee Willie Winkie.
Alfred Noyes.
Poems of Alfred Noyes. Forty Singing Seamen. Newspaper Bay. Barrell Organ. The Book of the Earth. Tales of a Mermaid Tavern.
Social Service
LESSON IV (For Fourth Week in January)
SOCIALIZATION THROUGH COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPORTATION
TEXT: CIVIC SOCIOLOGY, EDWARD A. ROSS, CHAPTER V
The general purposes of this lesson are:
1. To understand how the pattern of life is modified by contact with others.
2. To realize the obligation of the Latter-day Saint in furthering worth while social activities.
Communication and transportation are two of the greatest factors in promoting the growth and organization of society. Without them life may go on in its ancient mold for centuries at a time. Having once become accustomed to living in a certain way, a group of people, such as a clan or tribe, may continue to follow the same customs indefinitely unless they are modified through social interchange.
A vivid example of this fact is seen in the history of the American Indians: Living largely without communication or the benefits of transportation each tribe developed a type of civilization and a form of art which was particularly adapted to its own environment. For ex-
ample, the Pueblos, who dwell in permanent villages, have perfected the art of pottery as no other tribe has done, because of their sedentary life. But nomadic tribes which pitch their hogans or tepees whereever necessity demands find waterproof baskets lighter and more convenient vessels for carrying water and storing grain. The sheep-herding Navajos developed the art of blanket weaving to its highest extent. In their basketry, those tribes which live in canyons where willows abound use them extensively, while those who live on the desert use yucca fibres. The ceremonial customs and traditions of the Blackfeet Indians of Canada are equally characteristic of their surroundings. The snow tepee of their tribal camp. Is painted with green discs representing ice holes and with seven stars symbolizing the constellation of the Great Bear as a tribute to their god of the Blizzard. One of their ceremonial dresses is trimmed with ermine,
In these days of easy transportation and communication society has been organized to such a degree that no community or commonwealth can be self-sufficient. The extensive exchange of goods has made widely separated countries dependent upon one another, and no country is entirely self-supporting or independent. And, in addition to the consumption of goods there is a tremendous interlocking of moral and ethical values which has developed from this close communication. No social pattern exists which does not influence other patterns of thought and ways of living.
The present organization of society has been largely developed through the swift communication of ideas and the effect of rapid transportation. Human behavior continually alters with new surroundings, changing desires, and active participation in group activities. Social life is consequently in a continual state of flux. With such changes going on all the time, it is in the nature of things that older social arrangements, even though at one time admirable, must gradually cease to be useful. The older the custom the more likely it is to be unsuited to present social needs. New inventions, new knowledge, new services rendered to mankind often show old ways to be ineffectual and unsuited to modern life, such as the ancient custom of trial by fire, and the burning of innocent women as witches. With proper education the weakness and folly of old ideas lead to a demand for their abolition.
However, such demands usually meet with stern resistance. Most men are inclined to hold a self-sufficient attitude toward the major social problems of life. They stubbornly oppose new application to old ideas, and social change is hindered to that extent. Some develop a belligerent attitude at the very suggestion of a changing social order. Misunderstandings which lead to never ending difficulties develop very easily. History is replete with conflicts because of the clash of ideas which have developed through social changes. Differences in opinion on such questions as immigration, tariff policies, the organization of labor, and taxation have caused continual trouble. The United States Civil War was brought on by the inability of opposing sides to adjust their differences of opinion. Consequently both society and the nation suffered a devastating blow. The early persecution of the Latter-day Saints and their expulsion from certain states is an example of great intolerance.
But communication should reduce conflict and develop understanding of another's point of view. One of the greatest dangers to individuals and to organized society is this opposition to change and the social adjustment which it involves. Feelings become intensified, opposition grows violent, and sometimes ends in revolution. Groups of people and nations should not refuse to countenance differences in ideas or to make social adjustments. Rather, the attitude of tolerance and compromise in regard to conflicting interests and attitudes should be fostered.
In the past social changes have been more unconsciously directed by the activities of man than they are at the present time. Although great changes have always resulted from their activities, society was not so much aware of how and to what extent such changes were taking place as it is today. With the speeding up of transportation through the use of aircraft and higher powered ships, trains, and automobiles; and with the use of the radio, telegraphy, and
telephone, old barriers are broken down. With the ability to reach millions of people over the radio at the same time, world-wide changes in thought and attitude can be effected almost simultaneously. For example, President Roosevelt's "fireside talks" have been of international influence. As a result such changes are consciously directed and with more potent results than ever before. Therefore, people should know how to react to such tremendous influences.
To the extent that democracy is a privilege it carries a corresponding obligation. In so far as socialization occurs through such conscious molding, individuals should exercise judgment in contributing toward a wholesome development. Freedom of discussion is the best method of reducing differences of opinion and arriving at understandings. People should be willing to sacrifice personal beliefs for social welfare.
In "An Introduction to Sociology," W. G. Beach describes the worth of an idea as follows: "The worth of each (idea) is measured by its relation to social welfare. If an institution has had a social function, but no longer performs it, it needs to be changed; to function socially is to do something of value for society, and the test is universal and inexorable. The recognition of this principle by an individual or a group constitutes in them a consciousness of social obligation. Equally, must a custom, a tradition, an institution accept this test."
Active participation in church activities may be cited as an activity of worth while social value. One may derive great benefit and spiritual satisfaction by listening to radio talks, but group contacts should not be replaced by such methods of socialization and education. Group contacts have a value in and of themselves which nothing can replace.
The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints shows the effects of socialization through transportation and communication to a very interesting extent. The nature of its organization into stakes, wards, missions, conferences, and branches, affords a constant interchange of ideas and extension of the social mind. The traveling of missionaries to the uttermost parts of the world and their consequent partaking of the cultures of other peoples which they eventually bring back to their own communities is an invaluable cultural asset to the Church. The appearance and broadcast of the Tabernacle Choir at the recent Chicago Exposition in response to an invitation from Mr. Henry Ford, modified the attitude of thousands of people toward our Church. The Sunday evening services and concerts given weekly over the radio are an example of socialization by means of the radio.
As a religious body the Church is an organic institution possessing all the attributes necessary for growth and expansion to meet the needs of a growing and expanding world. Church members should participate in the activities of their organization, not only for their own good but also to help in the social development of the organization.
What do you, as Latter-day Saints, derive from the social and spiritual benefits of Mormonism? What do you contribute to its socialization?
Activities
Evaluate the services of the missionaries who have returned home in your ward. Give evidence, if possible, that members think or act differently because of the experiences of the missionaries in other communities. Show the effects of visits of stake and auxiliary supervisory officers upon the spirit of unity in the ward.
Mission Lessons
HEALTH LESSONS 1935-36
LESSON IV
CARE OF THE EYES
THE care of baby's eyes begins immediately after birth. The careful attendant always applies an unirritating antiseptic to the eyes of the new born babe, and there is no doubt that many cases of blindness are prevented by this initial care. There is a disease called ophthalmia neonatorium which attacks young infants just a few hours or days after birth, and which may be severe enough to destroy the sight. In such cases the physician should always be called in early.
There is another type of eye disease which results from syphilis, and which causes spots to come on the cornea which may permanently obstruct the sight. Here again the physician should be called and given full charge, and if he is early enough on the job blindness may be averted.
Conjunctivitis, commonly known as sore eyes, is fairly common amongst all classes of people. Unless it is severe one may be justified in treating himself. One of the simple eye drops recommended over long years by one of London's greatest eye specialists consists of two grains of chloride of zinc dissolved in an ounce of distilled water. This may be applied with a dropper two or three times a day, in amounts of three or four drops to each eye. This is the strength for adults, and it should be diluted somewhat for children. If the eye becomes very sore it should be put to rest by excluding the light with a bandage, and the physician should be consulted.
Conjunctivitis often results from eye strain, and if it continues the eye specialist should be consulted to see if glasses are not needed. Students who use their eyes excessively, and people whose employment subjects the eyes to the irritation of dust or smoke, are apt to have conjunctivitis. The Japanese who developed so many wise sanitary measures during the war with Russia had a regulation that each gunner in the artillery force should carry in his pocket a little bottle of saturated solution of boric acid to be dropped in the eyes as often as necessary. For the irritation of smoke or dust that is a good eye water and should be used freely.
Granular lids is really chronic conjunctivitis. It is a disease most common among the poorer classes. It sometimes causes distortion of the lid borders, turning the lashes against the sensitive eyeball and causing great pain and irritation. This is a disease for the eye specialist and should not be neglected or subjected to home treatment.
There is nearly always conjunctivitis in measles, and other infectious diseases may cause it. In measles or scarletina, where the eyes get sore, argyrol in 6% strength should be dropped in each eye two or three times a day.
Hemorrhage under the conjunctiva may be quite alarming, and it is quite, conspicuous, but it is usually not of consequence and the blood stain will disappear of its own accord in a few days. No medicine does it any good.
When one gets a black eye from an injury there is hemorrhage into the soft tissues about the eye. The
use of a beef steak poultice is foolish, and does no more good than an ordinary poultice. Immediately after the injury a small ice bag should be applied to arrest the hemorrhage, and the next day hot poultices of gauze wrung out of boric solution should be used to hasten absorption. If the person has to appear in public, the skin may be covered with flesh colored powder.
Little ulcers sometimes appear on the cornea, especially in poorly nourished children. These should be treated by the eye specialist as they may leave white scars which would interfere with vision.
Cataract is ordinarily a disease of old age, which would go on to complete blindness if not corrected. Sometimes it occurs in younger people as a result of injury to the eye. Fortunately science has developed a surgical cure for cataract, and the great majority of those afflicted with it can be restored to happiness by getting their sight restored.
Glaucoma is a disease of the eye in which the eyeball hardens, causing loss of vision and often severe pain. It is always a matter for the eye specialist, and no time should be lost in having treatment instituted.
Eye strain due to faulty shape of the eyeball is a condition that causes much disability. It not infrequently causes headaches, and other nervous symptoms. Many children have fallen behind in their studies not because of lack of intellect, but because of eye strain. Fortunately most of the difficulty of faulty refraction can be corrected by properly constructed glasses, but the well trained optometrist should be consulted for selecting them.
Cross eyes results from inequality of the pull of the eye muscles. It is often disfiguring, and seriously interferes with vision. It can often be corrected by properly selected
glasses, but in the severe forms, the little muscle which is making the abnormal pull on the eyeball must be operated upon by the well trained eye surgeon.
One should not put the eyes on a strain by reading in the twilight or in a darkened room. It is fortunate for us that so delicate an organ placed where it is subject so readily to injury as the eye, is given to us double, so that if one should be destroyed we still have another to fall back on. The Creator has also placed the eye in a strong bony cavity, open only on one side to let the light in. This gives it great protection from injury. So we see how our beneficent Heavenly Father has safeguarded our health and happiness, and we should show our appreciation by guarding carefully these precious organs that God has entrusted us with.
Questions
1. When should treatment of the eyes begin to occupy our attention?
2. What is conjunctivitis?
3. Why should the eyes of the new born baby have immediate attention?
4. How would you treat a black eye?
5. What simple eye water can be used with safety and effect?
6. What do you mean by cataract, and how treated?
7. What is glaucoma?
8. What is the treatment for cross eyes?
9. What do you mean by eye strain?
10. How can eye strain be corrected?
11. Show how the Creator has safeguarded our vision.
12. How can we best show our appreciation for the priceless gifts God has bestowed on us?