[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Ma Robinson]

Ma Pritchard By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
A SWIFT gust of wind rattled the tin roof of the cook shack and sent a flurry of snow flakes driving hard against the window pane that rested above Ma Pritchard's work table. Ma was rolling out pie dough but her troubled eyes watched as the eager flakes formed a tumbled heap on the sill. "Anyway it's a beautiful storm, Jim," she said consolingly to the boy who leaned against her table." His rebellious eyes sought the small window. 'Yeah? Well, even beauty gets tiresome sometimes." "Bill told me," Ma continued unruffled, "that even if he has to close down for a while he intends keeping you on." "Yeah?" eagerly this time. "Yes, so even if you lose four or five days' wages it—" "It's not the wages that worries me," he interrupted, 'even if I shall need every dollar I can get the next two years—it's this storm. I'm not a bear and I'll stagnate if it keeps up much longer." "If that's the worst you do," Ma thought to herself, as she scraped her board with a knife kept for that purpose. Not for nothing had she been cook with the Clawson Construction Company for twenty years. She knew—how well she knew what the trouble was—knew equally well how hard it was to fight. Aloud she said. "Have a piece of pie, Jim. Nothing like a full stomach to chase away gloom." Grumbling he took the knife she proffered, but used it with dexterity. Yet, even the cutting of a second piece after he hastily gulped the first failed to bring a smile to Ma's face. Action — companionship is what youth always wants. Boys came often to this place; and shortly went away men—men that sickened the heart of her. This boy was different and desperately, as a Mother-heart can, she wanted to keep him so. To keep that clear straightforward look in his blue eyes. Finishing the second piece of pie Jim crossed to the opposite window. Through the storm he could just see the outlines of the Big Tent. From the corner of her eye, Ma watched. She didn't need the sound of coarse laughter to tell her that in the Big Tent De La Rosa and his wily daughter were holding high revelry; welcoming the storm, challenging loneliness, raking in with greedy hands the men's hard earned dollars. Just thinking of them made Ma burn inwardly. ""She's a cute kid, don't you think so?" Jim demanded, knowing Ma's aversions, and contrarily wishing to refute them. "Cute!" Ma bit the word. 'Cute, yes, that describes her exactly. She—" "Oh, I know what they are," he interrupted. "Camp parasites, living on what the others own. I have kept away from them because—well, that sort of thing doesn't interest me ordinarily; but when there's nothing else to do, there's no harm in going in or even playing a game or two, is there?' The last came defiantly. Ma chose her words carefully. "Perhaps not—but after the first letting down the rest comes easy. You know—embrace where we once abhorred—" He seemed to scarcely hear her and presently when she was lifting pies from the oven he went out.
LATER in his own tent Jim's restlessness increased. All the books and magazines the camp afforded had been read and re-read. He had written to every one who had the least possible claim on him as a correspondent. An unfinished letter to his Mother lay on his rudely constructed table. Outside the wind whistled and shrieked. Occasionally the tent strained at its moorings only to fall back with a sudden thud. The tin roof of the cook shack protested loudly at every rising gust. Yet, above the beating of the storm, came the raucous whining of a phonograph; and now and then a voice raised in laughter or anger. Jim stepped outside. Through the wind-swept night dim lights flickered from two or three tents. Huddled together the men were making the most of their vacation. The light in the big tent held his eyes. "Cards, booze, and women," he muttered softly, "an unholy combination, yet—I think I'll look on a While." In challenge to his thought from behind him came a call borne on the wind. "Jeem—oh—Jeem." '""Who-oo." From the gloom a shrouded petite figure flung its self toward him. Eagerly he reached out and grasped her arm. Panting she rested against him. "'Thees so bad storm makes me to lose myself," she laughed. Her slight accent in no wise lessening her appeal. Echoing her laughter he reassured her. "Never mind, you are safe now." Yet wondering vaguely how she came to be "lost" in that direction. "I must not be lost again. Come weeth me. Bad boy, Jeem," she added slyly, "to stay alone thees bad
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
days; Come." She laid both hands on his arm in a gesture that was strictly Dulce's'. Presently Ma reading beside her work table heard the youthful gaiety of their voices above the storm and her heart gave a great bound. Trust Dulce to find a way! Dulce and that strong limbed, clean souled boy! Stepping to the door as they passed she asked casually: "That you, Jim?" "Yes," he answered gaily. You want something?" "Nothing much—if you are busy —only you promised to explain them little pamphlets—"' The Mexican girl gave her shawl a warning throw. By the light of the open door her black eyes defied Ma's troubled ones. "Would you have time now?" "Why—I—I," he began but the girl spoke quickly. "No, no. Can you not see he is engage?" "You come in, too,' Ma invited. "We could pop some corn or—" Dulce's hilarious laughter cut her short. "Vamoose, Ma. Chase your face away weeth your corn. See, I am now his dulce carrison. Is it not so, Jeem?" She added the last boldly, pressing closely and laughing challengingly up at him.
So Ma turned back to her table alone. To hide the hurt and gain control of herself she began singing in her soft queer way. Jim heard and because he was unspoiled he felt embarrassed and ill at ease. He knew what Ma wanted—and when before had he refused to explain "them little pamphlets"? But the pull on his arm was strong and he went on. Dulce pulled aside the tent door and they stepped in. Jim stopped short blinking in the light.
MA PRITCHARD
The room was blue with smoke; and stale with the pungent odor of frijoles, tobacco, whiskey and unbathed men. At a table a group of them huddled together.
Others were sprawled about, cursing—disputing loudly, snoring drunkenly—one was making love to Dulce's slatternly ~ Mother. "Hey, Jim, come get in the game," someone called. De La Rosa left his place by the card table and came forward smiling sleekly; the rubbing of his hands together was meant to be joyous welcome, to a close observer it might have meant gloating victory. Dulce's soft hand tugged at his arm. "Come," she urged, but he still hesitated.
Outside was the storm; inside, warmth, gratification. For the fraction of an instant the scene changed and incongruously he was back in the old First Ward Meeting House. The windows were open and June's fragrances and June's subdued murmurings lifted his already elated spirit. He had just been ordained a deacon and the awe of it was almost heart-breaking even to his twelve self-sufficient years. His father's hand found his and his understanding voice whispered: "Remember, Son, wherever you go now, you take the Priesthood with you." The Priesthood!
That which had glorified Abraham, Moses, Elijah— given as an honor, a privilege, a Liahona to his stumbling feet—and he would carry it into this vile place!
Jerking loose from the girl's clinging grasp he turned and ran blindly out into the storm. MA couldn't sleep. She turned and tossed restlessly. She would put that boy out of her mind and go to sleep.
Anyway he was only one of hundreds that entered this life for a brief fling and then 47 were gone; but her eyes refused to close. Why hadn't she thought of some way to save him? That Dulce! But then, she reasoned, the world is full of Dulces.
Later he'd be older tho' and circumstances perhar wouldn't be so compelling.
Pleadingly she prayed: "Dear Lord, why need there be a first time?"
Sick with apprehension she arose, and going to the door of the tent, looked out. The storm had at last spent itself and the night sparkled frostily. An immense white silence hovered over the hills; enhancing a last-quarter moon that hung low in the west; and vieing with the radiance of innumerable stars. Ma's eyes saw nothing of this white glory.
They saw only the big tent. The light within, though dimmed by the sparkling scintillation of the snow threw the shadows of the men in silhouette against the canvas. A sob trembled on Ma's lips.
They were still at it; and it would be the old, old story. She, who had seen so much of drinking, and gambling, and Dulces could still have a heart break when one more boy was caught in their meshes. She dropped the door flap—then flung it hastily back.
Over the brow of the nearest low hill a lone figure threshed its way, heavily, wearily, toward camp. The shoulders drooped, but it was a tired droop; tired, from battling with clean elements. In fearful suspense, Ma watched until he entered the right tent. It was Jim.
There hadn't been that first time.
Crawling back to bed Ma smothered her sobs of gratitude that life was still clean and God watchful in her pillow. BREAKFAST was over and the men gone when he rushed pellmell into the kicthen not many hours later. 480 "By George," he exclaimed boyishly, "I almost forgot to wake up. No, I haven't time to eat—but I wish you'd ask the Boss to mail this letter—if he's going for supplies." Ma took the letter unashamed of the tears that fell on it. "It's all right, Ma,'' he assured her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Of course it's all right,' she smiled through her tears. "I saw you come in."