[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: The Committee]
Awards will be presented annually for the best radio programs to encourage sponsors.
What the Committee Has Accomplished In the brief space of time which has elapsed since the organization of the Committee, it has achieved Federal recognition; has succeeded in having an objectionable program taken off the air with the cooperation of the Government agencies concerned; has had an article published in Printers' Ink, outlining the likes and dislikes of women with regard to radio advertising; was invited to participate in the radio institute of the National Advisory Council on Radio in Education at Columbus, Ohio, on May 7; was invited to take part in the Government conference on radio in education at Washington on May 15; and has 494 successfully induced Columbia Broadcasting System to clean up radio advertising, and to eliminate the blood-and-thunder from children's programs, after the expiration of present contracts. What The Press Has to Say Orrin E. Dunlap, Radio Editor of the N. Y. Times, on May 19, said: "Tt seems that the listeners' mail has not been in vain, nor have the efforts of the Women's National Radio Committee...
Which has for many months been campaigning for a cleanup of what they call distasteful advertising." Nick Kenny, Radio Editor of the N. Y. Mirror, on May 21, wrote: "Tt seems to me that the Women's National Radio Committee should take a bow for the announcement by CBS that starting July 30 it will ban objectionable programs from the airRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE limit the amount of advertising in sponsored programs, and generally improve programs for children." Future Plans While an excellent beginning has been made, there is much to be accomplished.
Radio advertising on all stations must be freed from misleading statements about articles of dubious value which may be harmful to the gullible or uninformed; the standard of all programs must be raised if America is to have any cultural life in the next decade; and listeners must be impressed with the importance of registering their opinions regarding radio programs.
Where to Write Send all letters concerning radio programs to: Women's National Radio Committee, 113
