[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Lund]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
San Francisco Stake. "THE group photograph on page 504 shows the members of the San Francisco Presidency and Stake Board, and the Ward Relief Societies of San Francisco, Balboa, Sunset, Mission, Burlingame, Palo Alto and San Jose Wards, in attendance at a literary class meeting held at Edwin Markham Memorial Home, 432 South 8th Street, San Jose, California, on February 20, 1935. We are indebted to Mrs. Annaleone D. Patton for the following delightful account of this very interesting event:
"That the Lord's house is a house of order" is demonstrated nowhere more potently. Than within the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In the recent organization of the San Francisco Stake of Zion, it was remarkable how quickly "Stake mindedness" was sensed by both units and individuals. It might be said in passing that this promising youngster in the family of stakes is "doing nicely, thank you."
*See poems pages 506, 507.
503
The auxiliary organizations are completed and functioning splendidly, as evidenced by a meeting of the Relief Society held at San Jose, February 20, 1935. The Stake President, Sister Esther Davis Stephens, with her counselors and other Stake officers made their first visit to San Jose Ward on January 16, within three weeks after the organization of the Stake. (San Jose is at the southernmost extremity of the stake—fifty miles from San Francisco.) The alertness and leadership of these sisters is shown by their interest in the new Wards.
"At this meeting assignments for the literary lesson were made. The topic was poetry, and the sub-topic, Edwin Markham—Dean of American Poets. The class had decided to hold this at the Markham Memorial Home. The San Jose Ward was anxious to share the honor of paying homage to Markham, and extended the invitation to the other Wards of the Stake. The following report is testimony of how thoroughly the spirit was diffused throughout the entire stake."*
"The restoration and maintenance of the Markham Memorial Home has been a labor of love. The house was the home of Mrs. Markham, bought many, many years ago when she first came to San Jose, that her youngest son, Edwin, might attend Normal School (now San Jose State College). The home is now owned by the College which maintains the Markham Health Cottage (a student infirmary) in the foreground of the lot. Due to the untiring labor and generosity of California's poet laureate, the late Henry Meade Bland, and others, the old home was restored, and there is now assembled in the little front room, affectionately known as the "Hoe Room," some rare treasures—an etching of Tassa, one of the few authentic paintings of Dante; a fireplace plaque of "Two by the Fireside" made by Mr. Markham in 1927; framed manuscript copies of "The Man with the Hoe" and "Lincoln, the Man of the People;" the chair Mr. Markham used at the local college; photographs of many literary high-lights in California history, and Dr. Bland's chair and library. This front room, with the bay window, was used by Mr. Markham as a study. Here, in 1886, while he was reading of Millet in Scribner's Magazine, his soul was stirred—an immortal poem was conceived—he drafted an outline and wrote the first four lines of "The Man with the Hoe:"
"Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground, The emptiness of ages in his face, And on his back the burden of the world."
"The first public reading of the poem was thirteen years later at the New Year's Eve party at the home of Carrol Carrington in San Francisco, at which time Baily Maillard declared the poem would go down the ages. Such is the genesis of the
LITERARY CLASS HELD AT MARKHAM MEMORIAL HOME. SAN FRANCISCO STAKE PRESIDENCY AND BOARD, ALSO SAN FRANCISCO, BALBOA, SUNSET, MISSION, BURLINGAME, PALO ALTO AND SAN JOSE WARDS.
505
poem that has had the most unusual history of any verse ever written and brought Edwin Markham the recognition he merited.
"At the Relief Society meeting the poem was read, also "Lincoln, the Man of the People." Mrs. Gwendolyn B. Penniman, vice chairman of the Edwin Markham Poetry Society read the quatraine "Poetry" and recounted some interesting reminiscences of a recent visit of the poet to the city. The literary class leader gave a biographical sketch of Mr. Markham and read "Eternal Justice." "Invictus" was also given. There was delightful music furnished, after which refreshments were served on the lawn by the San Jose Ward Presidency. There were seventy-seven sisters in attendance at this never-to-be-forgotten day. Mrs. Penniman gave to those present mimeographed copies of Mr. Markham's poem, "The New America," the last stanza of which so fittingly depicts our ideals:
"New America God show us Love's great way, And lead us day by day, To love's great ends O, may our country be From sea to sounding sea One shelter for the free One House of Friends."