[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department (For First Week in January)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON IV
THE PROPHET IN RETIREMENT (Continued)
1. A Brief Respite. Almost exactly one month to the day from the time the Prophet Joseph escaped from his enemies in Missouri, he took up his residence at Commerce?later called Nauvoo?May 10, 1839. The Prophet was doubtless happier at Nauvoo than at any other place. It was here that he had a home of his own?first a log house present on the ground at the time he purchased it, and later the north wing of the commodious Nauvoo Mansion. It was here that the Saints reached their highest degree of prosperity and built their most beautiful homes. It was here that a village of unsightly shacks was transformed into the largest and most attractive city in the state of Illinois. It was here that the Prophet received many of the choicest revelations. It was here that the Saints became the most enlightened and it was from here that preachers of righteousness were sent out to nearly every section of the United States and numerous countries abroad. Whenever the Saints were prosperous, the Prophet rejoiced, and when they suffered, he suffered.
2. For a year and more following the founding of Nauvoo, in the early part of 1839, the Church was comparatively free from persecution. The city grew by leaps and bounds. Two stakes were organized?one at Nauvoo and one across the river in Iowa. The city of Nauvoo was incorporated and given a most liberal charter. Provision was made for the establishment of the University of Nauvoo. The Nauvoo Legion was brought into existence and the Saints grew in power and strength before the Lord.
3. Persecution Again. The period of respite, however, was brief. The enemies of the Church were not satisfied. Accordingly, in September of 1840, Governor Lilburn W. Boggs?on whose order the Saints had been driven from Missouri?made a requisition on Governor Carlin of Illinois for the Prophet and several of his brethren. Although the Prophet and his associates had left Missouri nearly two years earlier, yet the requisition accused them with being fugitives from justice. Governor Carlin complied with the request and sent a sheriff to make the arrests. Upon hearing of this action, however, the Prophet and others secluded themselves and when the officer arrived they were not to be found.
4. Here the matter rested for nearly a year, but on the fourth day of June, 1841, Governor Carlin of Illinois again sent a sheriff with a posse and an officer from Missouri to arrest the Prophet and deliver him to the Missouri authorities. In a court hearing that followed, Judge Stephen A. Douglas?at that time friendly to the Saints?dismissed the case and granted the Prophet his freedom. This defeat seemingly had the effect of making the Missouri persecutors increasingly determined to wreak their murderous desires upon the Church and particularly its leaders.
5. A Second Effort at Extradition. Accordingly, in May of 1842, when Lilburn W. Boggs?then ex-Governor of Missouri?was shot and slightly injured while in his home at Independence, Orrin P. Rockwell, a resident of Illinois, was accused of the shooting. A little later the Prophet was charged as an accessory before the fact. Shortly thereafter Governor Reynolds of Missouri made a requisition on Governor Carlin of Illinois for the surrender of the Prophet. Governor Carlin, who had become embittered against the Prophet and his people, acceded to the demand and on the 8th day of August, 1842, the Prophet and Rockwell were arrested on a warrant issued by the Governor. The brethren demanded that they be tried at once and obtained a writ citing them to appear before the court in Nauvoo. The arresting officer refused to recognize the authority of this court and returned to the Governor for further instruction, leaving the Prophet and Rockwell in Nauvoo to do much as they pleased. Fearing they would be extradited to Missouri and there be tried by their avowed enemies, the Prophet and Rockwell retired into seclusion.
6. When the officers returned and failed to find the Prophet and Rockwell, they heaped threats of violence upon the people of Nauvoo and even attempted to alarm the Prophet's wife, Emma, who at the very time was far advanced toward becoming a mother. Sheriff Ford, the officer from Missouri, declared he would return from his own state with a body of men sufficiently large to take the Prophet by force. Hearing of these threats and knowing full well that if he were taken to Missouri he would be killed, the Prophet declared he was determined to keep out of their hands.
7. In Retirement. Thus from the early part of August, 1842, to near the close of the year the Prophet remained in seclusion, part of the time in Iowa but most of the time in Nauvoo and its environs. Irrespective of his whereabouts, however, he was fully informed of what was going on. This was made possible by a few trusted messengers who operated mostly under cover of darkness.
8. The Prophet describes in some detail a conference that was held between himself and several others, including his wife, at night time on a small island in the Mississippi river between Nauvoo and Montrose. The Prophet himself at that time was in retirement, staying at the home of John Smith in Zarahemla, Iowa. Under cover of darkness, Emma and half a dozen of the brethren met at the riverside near the Prophet's store in Nauvoo and proceeded in a skiff to the appointed place.
Soon after they reached the island, the Prophet, accompanied by Brother Derby, arrived from the Iowa shore. A council was then held in the boats. After this was concluded, the Prophet and Brother Derby made their way up the river to the home of Brother Edward Sayers on the Illinois side and the others returned to Nauvoo.
9. Joseph subsequently spoke of this as the "sacred night," and said that as long as time lasts he will never forget the service of his faithful friends. Although his statement concerning Emma, his wife, has appeared in an earlier lesson of this series, yet it deserves repeating. Here it is: "How glorious were my feelings when I met that faithful and friendly band on the night of the eleventh (August), on Thursday, on the island at the mouth of the slough between Zarahemla and Nauvoo: with what unspeakable delight, and what transports of joy swelled my bosom when I took by the hand on
that night my beloved Emma?she that was my wife, even the wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart. Many were the reverberations of my mind when I contemplated for a moment the many scenes we had been called to pass through, the fatigues and the toils, the sorrows and sufferings, and the joys and consolations, from time to time, which had strewed our paths and crowned our board. Oh what a commingling of thought filled my mind for the moment, again she is here, even in the seventh trouble?undaunted, firm,. And unwavering?unchangeable, affectionate Emma!" (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 107.)
10. The Prophet's love for his wife was always outstanding. Throughout the period of his retirement, he repeatedly risked his own safety by returning home to comfort her, then, as he said, "in the seventh trouble." Day after day he remained to administer to her wants. He not infrequently took her for a ride in the morning as well as in the evening. On the other hand, Emma was equally as devoted. At one time during his retirement the Prophet feared that he might be compelled to leave for a protracted stay in the wooded country to the northward, and wrote Emma accordingly. Immediately she replied: "I am ready to go with you if you are obliged to leave." The strain that she underwent in all of this trouble is probably reflected in the fact that later when her baby came, it did not live.
11. Emma made a most intelligent appeal to Governor Carlin in behalf of her husband and the saints. In closing her entreaty she said: "And now I appeal to your Excellency, as I would unto a father, who is not only able but willing to shield me and mine from every unjust prosecution. * * * I beg you to spare my innocent children the heart-rending
sorrow of again seeing their father unjustly dragged to prison, or to death. * * * I entreat of your Excellency to spare us these afflictions and many sufferings which cannot be uttered, and secure to yourself the pleasure of doing good, and vastly increasing human happiness." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 117.) This appeal, however, was largely unheeded.
12. Joseph's Appearance at Conference. On the 26th of August, 1842, some two weeks after the beginning of his retirement, Joseph advised the Twelve to call a special conference at which elders would be selected to go forth in an effort to allay ill feelings against the saints. Accordingly, the conference assembled three days later in the Grove near the temple. After Hyrum Smith had explained at some length the purpose of the gathering, the Prophet suddenly appeared in their midst. This occasioned much rejoicing, for some had supposed that he had gone to Washington, and others that he had gone to Europe. After the Prophet had addressed the assembly, about 380 elders volunteered to go immediately on the proposed mission and took their departure within a few days.
13. Attendance at Relief Society Meeting. In the afternoon of August 31, 1842, the Prophet rode to the Grove near the temple with Emma and attended a meeting of the Relief Society. (See History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 139, 140.) He spoke at some length concerning the efforts of his enemies to return him to Missouri, and then among other things warned the Relief Society sisters as follows: "If you know anything calculated to disturb the peace or injure the feelings of your brother or sister, hold your tongues, and the least harm will be done." Certainly sound advice even for today!
14. He also said that during his absence very important matters respecting the doctrine of baptism for the dead had been manifested unto him which he intended to communicate to the Saints on the following Sabbath provided nothing occurred to prevent him.
15. In a petition to Governor Carlin in defense of the Prophet, the sisters of the Relief Society bore the following character testimony: "We would further recommend to your Excellency, concerning Joseph Smith, that we have the utmost confidence in him as being a man of integrity, honesty, truth and patriotism. We have never, either in public or private, heard him teach any principles but the principles of virtue and righteousness. And so we have knowledge, and we know him to be a pure, chaste, virtuous and godly man." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 147.) This communication bore the date of September 5, 1842.
16. In Retirement Again. On the third day of September, 1842, while the Prophet was eating dinner with his family at Nauvoo, a sheriff and two associates appeared at the house and inquired as to his whereabouts. While this conversation was going on, the Prophet went out of the back door, and through a corn patch in his garden to the home of Newel K. Whitney. Meantime Emma went to the door and conversed with the sheriff who, although not possessing a search warrant, insisted upon searching the home. Emma granted him permission but his efforts were without avail. Later in the day the house was again searched with the same result. After nightfall, the Prophet in company with Brother Derby left the Whitney home and went to the home of Edward Hunter where of course he was welcomed and made comfortable. About a
week later the Prophet returned home thinking that he would be as safe there as elsewhere. Here he remained in semi-seclusion for nearly a month, Emma being sick. Again on the seventh of October, he left home, this time for James Taylor's, a tedious journey of all night and part of a day.
17. The Prophet's Acquittal. About this time Justin Butterfield, United States District Attorney for the state of Illinois, presented Sidney Rigdon with a lengthy legal opinion on the efforts to drag Joseph Smith into Missouri. In substance he said that the Prophet could not be legally extradited to Missouri unless he had committed an offense in that state. He advised the Prophet to obtain affidavits showing that he was not in Missouri at the time ex-Governor Boggs was shot and to submit to arrest and appear for a hearing at Springfield before the United States court. This the Prophet decided to do and a few days later, on the fifth of January, 1843, Judge Pope ordered that the Prophet be discharged from arrest. (See History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 223-231.)
18. Rejoicing Among the Saints. With the arrival of this news in Nauvoo, there was general rejoicing. When the Prophet reached home he and his wife issued invitations to a party to be held at his home, Wednesday, January 18, 1843, at ten o'clock in the morning. After the guests arrived, conversation continued on various topics until two o'clock when twenty persons sat down at the table, the Prophet and Emma waiting on them assisted by others. Twenty persons sat down at the second table, eighteen at the third, including the Prophet and Emma, and fifteen at the fourth. The Prophet closes his description of the party by stating that the pleas-
ure of the occasion was heightened by the fact that it marked the fifteenth anniversary of his and Emma's marriage.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. Recite the accomplishments of the church during its first year at Nauvoo.
2. What is the order that must be followed when one governor makes requisition upon another for the ex-
tradition of a violator of the law?
3. Where must the offense be committed in order to make a person subject to extradition?
4. What is meant by "accessory before the fact?"
5. Give the relative locations of Nauvoo, Montrose, Zarahemla, and Springfield. How is each place reached from the others?
6. Under conditions such as those described in the lesson, would you expect that rejoicing among the saints would be permanent? Why?