[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: We Meet the Harmen]

We
Meet the Jonses 
By Mabel S. Harmer N the pre-depression days we I thought very little of taking the family car and driving down town two or three evenings a week to see the current movies. We shouldn't have dreamed of passing up a concert on the Master Musician series. And then suddenly the stock market took its memorable dive and pushed all the best South American Revolutions on to the second page. Not being particularly acquainted with the gyrations of stock markets, we impatiently asked, "Well, what of it?"
Only for a little while did we say, "What of it?' Presently we found that the public wasn't buying our electrical fixtures this year and the money that hitherto had been freely spent for picture shows was needed desperately for half soles for Peter's shoes and to placate the milkman. And so after sitting alone by the evening fire for some weeks we suddenly said, "Let's call on the Joneses.
That nice young couple who live' down the street. We've always intended to—but never found time before." In high spirits we sallied forth to call on the Joneses. We found them engrossed in the fascinating game of anagrams and after playing with them an evening decided to invest in a set for our own amusement. On the Joneses return visit we invited in the Browns, who live next door, and each made a booklet of our past, present and future. The booklet was formed of several sheets of paper folded together and filled with pictures cut from illustrated magazines. It was indeed surprising to learn that Mrs.
Brown had been a trainer of wild animals and that Mr. Jones' future hope was to be a dictator of Russia. We spent several delightful evenings during the winter by getting a group of ten or twelve friends together and inviting someone in to review a recent book or play. We even went back to our youthful days —hborrowed the children's sleds and had a coasting party. We had almost forgotten what a glorious feeling it is to rush over the glistening snow on a frosty, moonlight night. On another occasion when a group met together each couple brought one game for the entertainment. The Smiths had taken colored pictures from magazines and cut them into jigsaw puzzles and mixed them all together.
Each guest was given a key piece and labored diligently to he the first to put his puzzle together. Mrs.
Perkins began telling a story and invited each one to add something to it.
Imagination ran high and it was not surprising that a story which began on the plains of Wyoming, ended in a Persian garden. Mr.
Brown came armed with a small blackhoard and the names of a dozen songs on separate slips of paper.
Each person in turn made a drawing on the blackboard illustrating his song. If the group failed to guess the name of the song, the artist was required to sing it. We hope with the rest of the country that the darkest days of the depression are over and that we can soon read of a two dollar concert without breathing a sigh of envy and turning the page to the vital statistics. But in the meantime we are so glad that we learned that all entertainment does not require a lavish expenditure of money—and that we met the Joneses.