THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.
		BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
	According to authentic testimony an
organization of which the present (Fe-
male) Relief Society is a fac-simile, has
always existed when the Church of Jesus
Christ has been fully organized. “Elect
Lady,” as it occurs in the New Testament,
has direct reference to the same, alluding
to one who presided over this institution.
(See 2d Epistle of John, 1st verse.)
	The first organization of this society in
the present dispensation was effected on
the 17th of March, 1842, by Joseph Smith,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, assisted by other
prominent Elders. His apology for de-
ferring the organization till that period
was the great pressure of duties, labors
and responsibilities which devolved upon
him. By his suggestion a meeting was
appointed in the Masonic Hall and a lim-
ited number invited.
	Nauvoo Lodge Room, March 17, 1842,
Elder John Taylor was called to the chair
and Elder Willard Richards appointed
secretary.
	The meeting commenced by singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
and prayer by Elder Taylor.
	It was moved by President Smith
and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland that a
vote be taken to know if all are satisfied
with each female present, and are willing
to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the privileges of the
institution about to be formed. The vote
was unanimous.
	President Smith addressed the meeting
to illustrate the object of the Society;
that the Society of sisters might provoke
to good works in looking after the wants
of the poor, searching after objects of
charity, etc., to assist by correcting the
morals and strengthening the virtues of
the female community, and save the El-
ders the trouble of rebuking, etc. He pro
posed that the sisters elect a presiding
officer, choose two counselors that he
would ordain them and let them pre-
side over the society just as the Presiden-
cy preside over the Church; and, if they
need his instruction, ask him and he
would give it from time to time; and let
this presidency serve as a constitution.


