[Column 1]
		R. S. EEPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Liberty Stake Relief Society convened
in the 2nd ward meetinghouse. June 7,
1907, at ten a. m. and 2 p. m., President
Annie S, Musser presiding. After the
usual opening exercises, including the
Temple work, 61 persons officiated for,
the 7th, and 3rd and 8th wards were re-
ported as being in a prosperous condi-
tion.
	Miss Kenner favored us with a solo,
and Sister Joaanna Angel read an editor-
ial from the Woman’s Exponent.
	The missionaries, Sisters Emma Carter,
Martha Nolan and Sarah Swift, gave us
some good instruction, and were followed
by President Annie S. Musser, Counselors
Zerviah G. Eardley and Mary E. Hodg-
son, who spoke of their visit to all the
aged, sick and afflicted in the stake, also
gave some good advice and words of en-
couragement to all present. After sing-
ing and benediction, conference adjourned
until 2 o’clock. At the afternoon session
we had Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry and
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie of the General
Board with us. After singing “Come let
us anew,” and prayer by Sister Martha
Morris, Miss Ball favored us with a solo.
	Counselor Hodgson presented the
names of the General Board also the
names of the Stake Board; all were unan-
imously sustained.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry said that
she enjoyed Relief Society work, urged
the mothers to gain the love and confid-
ence of their ehildren while they are
young, related incidents of neglected
childhood that we might help to avert.
	Sister Mary A. H. White gave a sketch
of the life of her father, Apostle Orson
Hyde, which was very interesting and
much enjoyed.
	President Musser gave a synopsis of the
work performed by the Stake Board
and the Relief Society in the several
wards. Sister Phebe Y. Beatie felt that
Latter-day Saints had more temptations
to overcome than any other people and
especially the young. Let us strive to
guide them by love, also to cultivate
patience.
	Sister Sarah Mitchell had been called
to work among the young people by the
priesthood, especially those without
homes or parents in the city, made a
few remarks in regard to the work.
	The Relief Society excursion to Saltair
was announced. Minutes of the confer-
ence were read and accepted. After sing-
ing and benediction by Sister Lizzie Rob-
bins, conference adjourned for six
months.
