	BY DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS.

President Bathsheba W. Smith and Board,
Supt. Empey and Graduating Nurses:
	I am happy this day to congratulate
you upon your success in the course of
study you have so faithfully followed, and
and the excellent examination you have
passed. You have now earned the certi-
ficate of graduation given by the General
Board of the Relief Society of the Church
and authorized to practice under the aus-
pices of this society in the profession of
nursing.
	Of the nobility, importance and res-
ponsibility of this profession, I have oft-
en spoken in our class exercises, and there
would seem to be small need of refering
to these matters again. Yet experience
in teaching and your own recollection
warrant me in saying that frequent repe-
tition is essential in order to impress the
mind with things that are to be remem-
bered. “Attention,” it is said, “is the
mother of memory;” if that be granted, I
want to add, that the child memory has
need often to be jogged by repetition in
order to retain that which the mother
has committed to it. It goes without
saying that the profession of nursing
stands out at once among the most neces-
sary and honorable of callings. This is
eyerywhere acknowledged. But it seems
to me that with the Latter-day Saints it
ought to be regarded as more emphatical-
ly true than with others, and especially
so in the case of Relief Society nurses,
because, in their labor there is to be a
dash of the religious element that does
not attach to such services in other com-
munities and with ordinary nurses.
	“I was sick and ye visited me,” is
classed by the Master as among those
charity deeds that shall be remembered
in the day of judgment of men—such as
“I was an hungered and ye gave me meat;
thirsty and ye gave me drink; a stranger
and ye took me in; naked and ye clothed
me; in prison and ye came unto me.’”
And it is predicted in that scripture that
when the righteous shall say, “Lord,
when saw we thee a stranger, or naked,
or in prison or sick and came unto thee,’’
the Lord shall answer, “In as much as
ye have done it unto the least of these
my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”
	It was in this spirit, I am sure, that it
was intended originally, and is now in-
tended that Relief Society nurses should
perform their work.
	In consequence of having received your
instruction at a mere nominal tuition,
you have entered into a signed contract
to do a certain amount of charity work
which is definitely stated. 
	But all the circumstances connected
with the arrangements by which you ac-
quire your profession, the organization
under which it has been possible for you
to receive it, the practically free service
of those who have instructed you, and

[Column 2]
those who will direct your services, al
require that on your part you carry
that same spirit of free service into your
charity work. Freely you have received,
now as freely and unselfishly give such
service as your contract calls for. If your
work is characterized by the spirit which
prompted the inauguration of this move-
ment, it will be possible for you to parti-
cipate in that welcome, “Come ye blessed
of my father . . for . . “I was sick
and ye visited me, . .  in as much as
ye did it unto the least of these, my breth-
ren, ye did it unto me.”
	I would like to sound a note of warn-
ing against professional pride that might
possibly stand in the way of the efficien-
cy and acceptability of your services.
Very naturally a finished workman feels
the necessity of his tools, and a nurse’s
well-instructed senses the need of the
furniture and appliances necessary to
provide for the comfort of her patient;
but it will often happen that those things
so necessary can not be supplied. What
shall be done under these circumstances?
Shall the nurse complain, be irritable,
emphasize the misfortunes of the poor,
increase their embarrassment? No, she
will do none of these things if she follows
the instructions that have been imparted.
The very absence of the usual appliances
and conveniences afford the nurse the
opportunity to exercise her patience, her
ingenuity in improvising means out of
such materials and conditions as are at
hand, meanwhile retaining that cheerful-
ness so essential in her work, and demon-
strating that skill that comes from the
ntelligent application of instruction that
has been received.
	But while urging upon you to follow
this course, still I must say once more,
—and for the last time to a class—that
you keep in mind always the dignity of
your profession and neyer cheapen it or
yourselves.
	A wrong view is sometimes enter-
tained in regard to the services of nurses,
especially Relief Society nurses. Some
are urging that they not only attend up-
on the sick, but also do the general
housework as well. I wish to say that
notion goes beyond what has been con-
templated in the Relief Society nurse-
movement.
	I would not like to be too technical in
relation to just what the services of the
nurse should be in the household, and
have no objection to our nurses reliev-
ing whatever situation may confront
them. No general rule can be suggested.
Each nurse must judge for herself what
she can and ought to do in each particu-
lar case. But I must say that the course
of study given these classes has not been
a course in general housekeeping, scrub-
bing and cleaning, but we have tried to
mpress the nurses with the idea that
their duty is to give every attention to
the sick ones that is required to add to
their comfort and bring them back to
health, or if this can not be, then the
utmost relief of suffering until death


