[Column 1]
shall bring its relief. Any thing else a
nurse does must be secondary and inci-
dental. Our Relief Society organiza-
tions are not confined in their ministra-
tion among the poor to providing a nurse
for the sick, if other household help is
needed during the time of affliction, oth-
ers besides a nurse may be called upon
to render such assistance. But to you,
you nurses, your duty is to your patient
not to the rest of the household. Sub-
ordinate every other consideration.
	Judging from the experience of our
nurses in the past, you will be tempted
by monetary considerations to abandon
or slight your obligations as a Relief So-
ciety nurse. Let me admonish you not
to yield to such temptation. And re-
member this movement was instituted
especially to supply nurses for charity
work, and for those people who can not
afford to pay $15 or $25 a week, but who
can pay, and want to pay $3, $5 or $6 a
week. You are in honor bound to nurse
for these prices whenever it is necessary
during the time stated in your contract.
This should be regarded as missionary
service and the work should be done
skillfully, cheerfully, willingly, lovingly,
and as service in the Church of Christ,
in that spirit that should and does char-
acterize all real service rendered to hu-
manity in the name of the Master.
	Nor should this service be rendered in
any sectarian spirit—to members, of your
own church only, for, as God causes his
sun to shine on both the evil and the
good, and the rain to fall upon, the just
and the unjust alike; so should your
charity services be given. It must be
enough for you to know that there is
poverty and sickness combined and that
you are called upon in your professional
capacity to help relieve it. Time would
fail me to say all that I would desire to
say to you so anxious am I that you
should succeed and perpetuate in your
work the spirit of the Relief Society
movement that has been so dear to me
both in its inception and development
up to this time. It is an undertaking, if
I may be so bold as to say it, that is most
in keeping both with the name and the
mission of that first and what well might
be the greatest auxiliary organization of
the Church, the Relief Society.
	One other thought I feel impressed to
voice, though not immediately con-
nected with your graduation, and duties
as nurses. Some years ago, President
Brigham Young recognizing the fact that
in some departments of the physician’s
calling, namely, obstetrics and children’s
diseases, it was possible for women to
perform the service as well as, if not
even better than men physicians, and
urged a number of young women to
qualify for that profession in some of
the medical colleges in the East. In
response to this advice and encouraged
by him, several of the young Utah wo-
men went East, studied, graduated and
for some years have practiced their pro-
fession in the state. I observe, however,
that none of our young women seem
ambitious to succeed them in their work,
nor are they; so far as I know, receiv-
ing any encouragement to do so.
	Believing, hwever, in the inspiration
that prompted President Brigham Young
to move in this matter, I venture to call
attention to the subject on this occasion.
We shall soon be without lady prac-

[Column 2]
ticing physicians, so far as the Latter-
day Saints are concerned, unless steps
are taken to call others to this profes-
sion, as it requires at the very least, a
high school education in order to enter
medical colleges, and then four years to
complete the course. 
	Very properly, I think, the Relief So-
ciety, under whose auspices we are met
here to day, could take the initiative in
this matter and search out young women
who could take up this profession. 
	I feel a perfect freedom in giving en-
couragement to women to take up the
profession of medicine and of nursing,
because in doing so, I but urge them to
engage in the noblest, most useful calling
which women can follow. And this not
only because it is good to relieve suffer-
ing and nurse people from pain and sick-
ness back to ease and health, but for the
reason of the moral power these profes-
sions enable them to use. If you except
perhaps the occupation of the priest,
there is no other calling which brings
men and women into such close relation-
ship to their fellows as the ministration
of the physician and the nurse, and that
at a time when those with whom they
come in contact are in such condition as
to be influenced for good. The physical
powers are somewhat weakened, and un-
der such conditions, the mind is more
open to moral and spiritual influences
than at other times.
	During the period of illness and con-
valescence, the physician and nurse have
their opportunity for influencing for good
the lives of those who come under their
watch-care; and I am confident from both
observation and experience that there
are few who have greater chances for be-
ing a power that makes for righteousness
in this world than the conscientious God-
fearing physician. I am happy to say
that in the great majority of cases, it is
my firm conviction that the men and wo-
men of my profession avail themselves of
their opportunities and are a real moral
force in society. Nurses with opportun-
ities well-nigh equal, can be, and I be-
lieve for the most part are also a moral
power. I feel sure that this class now
graduating are capable of this high moral
service in the families and the communi-
ty where they will practice their profes-
sion. None of the classes which I have
taught and who have graduated under
the auspices of the Relief Society have
had so good opportunities as this class
and none have made better use of their
advantages. I am well satisfied with the
intellectual and moral status of these
graduates, and I am confident that they
are capable of efficiency in the practice
of their profession, and also in their abili-
ty for being moral forces whereever their
lot may be cast. To this labor so broad
in its scope, so full of possibilities for
good, I commend you, nurses, with all
my heart.
	May 13, 1907.


