[Column 1]
cares and trials and worries of life as rap
idly as the sun does snow? (f) Illustrate
how smiles and mild answers will disperse
dark clouds and turn away wrath, that
at times threaten to mar our home peace
and happiness, (g) How does cheerful-
ness invigorate, mentally and physically?
(h) Is it not the important duty of all,
Latter-day Saints in particular, to be
cheerful, and scatter generously smiles
and encouraging words? (II Cor. 9:7.)

Lesson X. Worry.
	“It is not the work, but the worry,
		That makes us sober and sad;
	That makes us narrow and sordid,
		When we should be cheery and glad.

	“It is not the work, but the worry,
		That makes the world grow old, 
	That numbers the years of its children,
		Ere half their story is told.”

	(a) Worry—what is it? (b) Its effect
upon the parents. (c) Upon the chil-
dren. (d) Upon our associates. (e)
Name some of the causes of worry. (f)
How does it affect us physically and men-
tally? (g) What are the fruits of fretting,
repining and useless complaining? (h)
Can worry deepen the lines of care on the
face, rob the form of its grace and elas-
ticity, and take the sparkle and lustre
from the eyes? (i) Show how it antici-
pates and magnifies evils that never come.
(j) Is it work or worry that drives away
sleep and causes us to toss and tumble on
our beds, unfitting ourselves for the duties
of today? (k) Is worrying a habit partic-
ularly with womenj If so, can it be over-
come: and how? (l) Ought care and sor-
row to be accepted as inevitable and the
necessary discipline of life? (m) Show
how patient resignation and being thank-
ful that things are no worse, and letting
our thoughts go out to others more un-
fortunate, restore peace and thankfulness
to the disturbed soul and drive away the
evil spirit of worry and discord.
				Adamsville R. S.

Lesson XI. Charity.
	(a) Definition. (Ref.: Book of Mor-
mon, Moroni 7:45-48.) (b) Importance.
(I Peter 4: 8; I Cor. 13: 1-3.) (c) Christ
our great exemplar in charity and com-
passion, expressed in healings, raising
the dead, restoring sight and hearing,
cleansing lepers, rebuking evil spirits, and
releasing sinners. (Ref.: John 11: 11:44;
Luke 7: 12-15; Matt. 8:28-32.) (d) Show
how we can manifest our charity toward
mankind. (e) Feeding the hungry and
clothing the naked is not the highest type
of charity—it is only a temporary relief;
while to provide ways and means for self-
help is a permanent blessing. (f) Show
how one drags down to pauperism, and
the other develops self-respect and man-
hood. (g) Explain the difference between
charity and benevolence.

Lesson XII. Home Economy.
	“Economy is the magic door
	That leads to wealth’s accumulated store,”

	(a) Show the benefits of children be-
ing trained while young in habits of econ-

[Column 2]
omy. (b) It will not depart from them
in after life. (c) It is a safeguard against
poverty, and an insurance of plenty.
Why? (d) Necessity of training them to
realize the value of money—the good that
might be accomplished with it—that they
will not have a desire to spend it in friv-
olous things that could be done without.
(e) Explain how method of performing
work will economize time. (f) Importance
of improving the precious moments and
not wasting the time God has given us.
					Greenville R. S.
	Alice Gunn White, Mary A. White,
Frances L, Jones, Clarissa E. Parkin-
son, Committee.


