		GRANITE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Granite
stake Relief Society was held on Tuesday,
June 11th, at the Stake Tabernacle at 10
a. m. President E. S. Woodruff presid-
ing.
	There were present, three members of
the General Board, 17 stake, and a large
number of local officers, and members.
	President E. S. Woodruff related some
interesting incidents of her life, and her
experiences in Nauvoo, and her journey
“across the plains.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry of the Gen-

[Column 2]
eral Relief Society gave an eloquent ad-
dress, on the responsibilities of parents
in the training of their children, and Sis-
ter Sarah J. Cannon also spoke on the
same subject.
	The beautiful singing by the Emerson
ward Relief Society choir, added greatly
to the pleasure of the meeting.
	A dainty lunch was served to the visit-
ors by the members of the stake board
between meetings.
	The afternoon program was a continua-
tion of the “Lives of our leaders,” a feat-
ure which has become very popular in our
conferences during the past two years.
“The Life of Jedediah M. Grant” being
the subject chosen.
	We were favored with the presence of
Apostle Heber J. Grant, Elder B. F.
Grant, Sister Rachel Grant and many
others of the descendants of Pres. J. M.
Grant. Apostle Grant took charge of the
meeting and also led the singing.
	A biographical Sketch was read by Sis-
ter Dessie Grant, in which Bro. Grant
was characterized as a great preacher of
righteousness, an ardent missionary of the
church, as well as a General of the Nau-
voo Legion, and Indian fighter, 1st Mayor
of Salt Lake City, and a faithful good
man, “faithful, unto death.”
	Elder B. F. Grant spoke of his father’s
missionary labors in the Southern States,
and related some amusing incidents con-
nected with his work there. Apostle
Heber J. Grant paid a high tribute to the
loyalty of his father to the truth, and of
his great boldness in proclaiming his be-
lief at all times, of his ardent labors dur-
ing the “Reformation” in Utah. Said
that having goodly parents was a great
blessing.
	An excellent musical program was ren-
dered by the “Grant” family as follows:
	Trio. “Lullaby” Misses Edith, Florence,
and Mary Grant.
	Duett. “Little Boy Blue” Misses Emily
and Frances Grant.
	Solos were sung by Miss Edith Grant,
Apostle H. J. Grant, Mrs. Lutie G. Can-
non, and Florence Grant, accompanied
by Miss Mary Grant.
	Piano Solo by Miss Grace Grant.
	Elder B. Morris Young, Jr., who re-
cently turned from Europe favored us
with a delightful violin solo, accompanied
by Miss Ida Whittaker.
	Sister Rachel Grant spoke on her past
life and her early experiences in Nauvoo.
	After benediction conference was ad-
journed three months.
