[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held in the
2nd ward chapel American Fork, Friday,
April 19, 1907. President Rebecca Stand-
ring presiding. Opening exercises.
	President Standring was pleased to see
and welcome the sisters. Noticed that
sisters were here from our fartherest wards
while some nearer home had excused
themselves. We should be earnest in
our work. We have four conferences
each year and twelve conjoint meetings
and have much to encourage us onward.
We have entered our 68th year since our
first organization.
	The sisters can call their children to-
gether in family prayer and thus set an
example to the head of the house, and
plant the principle of prayer in the hearts
of the children for the children cannot
be saved through the good' works of the
parents.
	Four of the wards were reported by
their respective presidents. All seem to
be in good running order, officers united,
teachers doing their duty and all working
in harmony. Much has been done during
the past year in building meeting houses
in which work the sisters have done a
good share besides taking care of the poor,
gathering grain and numerous other duties
devolving upon them.
	President Jas. H. Clarke in his excel-
lent remarks said, manv of the sisters
leave it too late to get the lessons they
could have had in early life. President
Joseph F. Smith would like to see women
of vigor and strength take hold of Relief
Society work. There are many who never
get the spirit and benefit of the instruc-
tions given here. If the teachers could
carry the spirit of these meetings to those
who cannot attend, it would be a great
help.
	Bishop Storrs realized that the Relief
Society was one of the greatest organiza-
tions in the Church, and what they do is
always a success spoke of the word of
wlsdom, and many other good things.
	Meeting closed by singing, etc.
	Afternoon Session at 2 o’clock. Presi-
dent Standring presiding. Singing. Prayer
by President Abel J. Evans. A select

[Column 2]
piece was rendered by the sisters of the
American Fork 1st ward, entitled “Count
your blessings.”
	President Standring made a few excel-
cellent opening remarks.
	Four presidents gave good reports of
their various wards. Good conditions ex-
isted and a spirit of inquiry seemed to be
in the hearts of the people, and the meet-
ings are better attended.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley, this so-
city was given to us that we might help
each other. We fully appreciate this
blessing. We are not perhaps always do-
ing the best we can, but our desires are
to do right.
	Song, “Sometime, somewhere” by Miss
Edith Hindley.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said,
the instructions given were from the
proper spirit. Found we were below the
average with other stakes. We have
fewer missionaries in the field. Our mis-
sionaries should be strong in body and in
good health. Where the young man has
proved a failure in the mission field he
was a failure before he went.
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board
spoke of the unity there is among the sis-
ters. “Let us commence in our homes
and see what can be done with the chil-
dren. When we are doing good to others
we are helping ourselves.
	Brother Ammon Mercer of Canada felt
to appreciate the privilege of meeting old
time friends, rejoiced in attending confer-
ence and seeing the spirit of unity and ad-
vancement, knew the Lord was favoring
Zion and especially the children of the
Saints.
	Solo, “Star of the East” by Sister Laura
McCarty.
	Sister Emily Bullock bore her testi-
mony, felt thankful for the Relief Society
for in it are the best women. Desired to
set a good example and hoped we would
all be faithful to the end.
	Bishop Fjeld of Lehi, “the work is
growing and it cannot be put down. Now
the Church is out of debt it will make
rapid strides.”
	Ellen D. Clarke of the Stake Board felt
we had had a time of rejoicing. Spoke
of tithing and that there was a blessing
attending the observance of this principle.
	Rosalie Driggs of the Stake Board felt
proud of the Alpine Stake and knew the
work was true, had learned much from
being a member of the Relief Society.
	President Standring, “the Lord had 
blest us and repaid us for coming together
for we have had an overflow of the spirit
of the Lord. Singing, “Lord dismiss us.”
	Benediction, Sister Rachel Hunter.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
