THE RAINBOW.
The evening was glorious, and light through the
	trees
Played tho sunshine and rain drops, the birds and
	the breeze;
The landscape outstretching in loveliness lay
On the lap of the year, in the beauty of May.
For the Queen of the Spring, as she passed down
	the vale,
Left her robe on the trees, and her breath on the
	gale;
And the smile of her promise gave joy to the
	hours,
And fresh in her footsteps sprang herbage and
	flowers.
The skies like a banner in sunset enrolled,
O’er the west threw their splendor of azure and
	gold;
But one cloud at a distance rose dense and in-
	creased,
Till its margin of black touched the zenith and
	east.
We gazed on the scenes while around us they
	glowed,
When a vision of beauty appeared on the cloud:—
'Twas not like the Sun as at midday we view,
Nor the Moon that rolls nightly through starlight
	and blue.
Like a spirit it came in the van of the storm,
And the eye and the heart hailed its beautiful
	form;
For it looked not severe, like an Angel of Wrath,
But its garment of brightness illumed its dark
	path.
In the hues of its grandeur, sublimely it stood,
O’er the river, the village, the field and the wood;
And river, field, village and woodlands grew
	bright—
As conscious they gave and afforded delight.
’Twas the bow of Omnipotence, bent in His hand
Whose grasp at Creation the universe spanned
’Twas the presence of God, in a symbol sublime,
His vow from the flood to the exit of Time!
Not dreadful, as when in the whirlwind He
	pleads,
When storms are His chariot, and lightnings His
	steeds,
The black clouds His banner of vengeunce un-
	furled,
And thunder His voice to a guilt-stricken world.
In the breath of His presence, when thousands
	expire,
When seas boil with fury, and rocks burn with fire,
And the sword and the plague-spot with death
	strew the plain,
And vultures, and wolves, are the graves of the
	slain.
Not such was the Rainbow, that beautiful one!
Whose arch was refraction, its key-stone the Sun;
A pavilion it seemed which the Deity graced,
And Justice and Mercy met there and embraced.
Awhile and it sweetly bent over the gloom,
Like Love oe’r a death-couch, or Hope o’er the
	tomb;
Then left the dark scene; whence it slowly re-
	tired,
As if Love had just vanished, or Hope had ex-
	pired.
I gazed not alone on that source of my song;
To all who beheld it these verses belong;
Its presence to all was the path of the Lord;
Each full heart expanded, grew warm, and adored.
Like a visit—the converse of friends—or a day,
That bow, from my sight, passed forever away;
Like that visit, that converse, that day—to my
	heart—
That bow from remembrance can never depart.
’Tis a picture in memory distinctly defined,
With the strong and unperishing colors of mind;
A part of my being beyond my control,
Beheld in that cloud, and transcribed in my soul.
