[Column 1]
	If any officers are wanted to carry out
the designs of the institution, let them
be appointed and set apart as deacons,
teachers, etc., are among us. The min-
utes of your meetings will be precedents
for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of
electing a presidency to continue in office
during good behavior or so long as they
shall fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney and sec-
onded by Mrs. Packard that Mrs. Emma
Smith be chosen president; passed unani-
mously.
	On suggestion of President Smith, the
presidentess elect make choice of Mrs.
Sarah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth
Ann Whitney for counselors. 
	After which, the ceremony of ordina-
tion was performed. When President
Smith resumed his remarks, giving in-
structions how to govern themselves in
their meetings, what order to observe,
how to regulate discussions, etc., and
concluded by saying “Do not injure the
character of any one; if members of the
society shall conduct improperly, deal
with them and keep all your doings with-
in your own bosoms, and hold all charac-
ters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that Elder Tay-
lor vacate the chair, and President Em-
ma Smith and her counselors take the
chair.
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by
President Joseph Smith, that we go
into an investigation respecting what this
Society shall be called, which was carried
unanimously.
	(The discussion, which was lengthy and
interesting, is wholly omitted.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appoined secretary, and Miss Phebe
M. Wheeler, assistant secretary, and Miss
Elvira A. Coles (the late Mrs. Holmes),
treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said “I now
declare this society organized with Presi-
dent and Counselors, etc., according to
parliamentary usages, and all who shall
hereafter be admitted into this society
must be free from censure and received
by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by
saying that he was much gratified in see-
ing a meeting of this kind in Nauvoo; his
heart rejoiced when he saw the most dis-
tinguished characters stepping forth in a
cause which is calculated to bring into
exercise every virtue, and give scope to
the benevolent feelings of the female
heart; he rejoiced to see this institution
organized according to the law of heaven;
his prayer was that the blessings of God
and the peace of heaven may rest upon
this institution henceforth.
	After singing “Now let us Rejoice,”
the meeting adjourned for one week.
	Dismissed by prayer.
	Before retiring, each gentleman pres-
ent gave a liberal donation to commence
the funds of the institution.
	The following lines were found written
on a scrap of paper and lying on an open
Bible in the room where, and at the time
when, the society was organized, which
have been carefully preserved and tran-
scribed as an appropriate frontispiece to
the F. R. S. Book of Records:
	“O Lord, help our widows and fatherless chil-
dren! So mote it be. Amen. With the SWORD 
and the WORD of TRUTH, defend Thou them. So
mote it be. Amen.”

[Column 2]
When organized the society consisted
of eighteen members, inclusive of its offi-
cers. This number augmented from time
to time until at the close of the fiscal year,
it amounted to 1158. The meetings were so
large that the largest hall in the city was
densely crowded and it became necessary
to adjourn to the Grove the usual place
in the summer for holding Sabbath meet-
ings, which was provided with a suitable
stand and a supply of seats for large as-
semblies.
	The society soon became so popular
that even those of doubtful character in
several instances applied for admission,
and to prevent imposition by extending
membership to such ones inadvertently,
stricter rules were adopted than seemed
requisite at first. Each one wishing to
join the Society was required to present
a certificate of her good moral character
signed by two or more responsible
persons.
	The meetings were opened and closed
with prayer, and systematic order was
observed throughout. In each meeting
reports were given by those whose duty
it was to visit from house to house and in-
quire into the circumstances of the sick
and destitute—donations were received
and those subjects discussed which ap-
pertain to woman’s duties, influence and
responsibilities, etc., whatever has a ten-
dency to benefit and elevate society at
home and abroad.
	Frequently President Joseph Smith,
Bishop N. K. Whitney and brethren of
the Twelve met with the sisters and
through the inspiration of the Spirit of
God, imparted rich counsel and intelli-
gence; instructing not only in duties con-
cerning the poor, but also in all the rela-
tions of life, as wives, mothers, daugh-
ters, sisters, as Saints of the Most High,
our duties to one another, and our res-
ponsibilities as examples to the world, etc.
	The first winter after the Society was
organized was exceedingly cold and se-
vere. Many in consequence of exposure
and hardship in their expulsion from the
state of Missouri and the unhealthiness
of the climate of Nauvoo, had been re-
duced by sickness to destitution and had
it not been for the timely aid of the F.
R. Society would have suffered very
much and probably some would have
perished.
	About the last of July, 1842, when
some of the officials of Missouri were tak-
ing measures to drag President Joseph
Smith from Illinois by an illegal process,
the F. R. Society sent a petition to
Thomas Carlin, governor of Illinois in
behalf of President Smith, claiming his
protection as chief magistrate. The pe-
tition was signed by every member of the
society, and presented by its President,
Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by Mrs.
Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow.
The governor’s residence was in Quincy,
fifty miles south from Nauvoo.
	The following is transcribed from my
journal written after my return: E. R. S.
	“The governor received us with much cordiality
and politeness as his excellency was master of, as-
suring us of his protection by saying that the laws
and constitution of our country shall be his polar
star in case of any difficulty. He manifested
much friendship, and it remains for time and cir-
cumstance to prove the sincerity of his protesta-
tions.”
	We subsequently ascertained that at

[Column 3]
the very time that the ladies of Nauvoo
were visiting him presenting the petition
and listening to his protestations of friend-
ship and love for legal right and justice,
his emissaries were engaged in secret
plotting in his behalf against the rights
and safety of President Smith, and aiding
the unprincipled blood-hounds of Mis-
souri. But whatever the result, the F.
R. Society had made a noble effort,
and it was compensated by knowing
that the great, good man, Joseph Smith
appreciated it.
	The city of Nauvoo was divided into
four wards and, after the Society became
too numerous to convene in one assem-
bly, it was decided to meet alternately
in the different wards from week to week
so as to give equal opportunities to all.
	President Joseph Smith donated a city
lot to the Society for the purpose of mak-
ing homes for the homeless, and also to
furnish work to those who were able to
work and men out of employment, which
he proposed deeding to the treasurer and
her successors in office for the Society.
He also donated the frame of a house,
and made arrangements for it to be
moved on the aforesaid lot for a com-
mencement of the establishment. But
this benevolent and judicious project,
with many others which were designed
for the amelioration of the condition of
suffering humanity, was blasted in the
bud by the blighting hand of religious
persecution, and through which the once
beautiful city of Nauvoo became a deso-
lation, and its inhabitants exiled to
Mexico.
	God, who makes the wrath of man to
praise Him, has overruled, as He ever
does, in all things for the good of them
who put their trust in Him.
	In having been driven from a city, we
have become a Territory—should have
been a State—and here the Female Re-
lief Society more amply developed than
in Nauvoo, has extended its borders in
every ward and settlement from Bear
Lake in the north to Santa Clara in the
south, and yet as seen in prospective it
has but little more than emerged from its
embryo state in comparison to its great
future.
	Published in the first numbers of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, June 1 and 15, 1872.


