RECEPTION TENDERED.
	On Tuesday, June 11, 1907, the newly
installed officers of the Relief Society of
Davis county honored the retiring presi-
dent, Sister Susan Grant, and her Board
at Farmington in a most superb and en-
joyable way. The meeting house was
fragrant with the perfume of roses and
other flowers. At eleven in the morning
a meeting was held with religious exer-
cises and suitable program rendered. An
original song by Sister Lucy A. Clark was
sung, and each paper read or address
made was complimentary in the best
sense of Sister Grant and her fellow
workers, Sisters Jane Holt, Wealthy A.
Clark and Phebe Sessions, who had la-
bored so long and diligently in the inter-
est of the Relief Society in Davis stake.
	PresidentsHyrum Grant and James Eld-
redge were on the stand, which was well
filled with representative women of the
stake, including both the retiring officers
and the newly appointed ones. There
were twe sisters from Salt Lake City—
Sisters E. B. Wells and J. P. M. Farns-
worth, who both spoke of the praisewor-
thy life and labors of Sister Grant in
eulogistic terms; Sister Wells read a poem
written in her honor, entitled “After
Many Years.” After the program, which
consisted of one selection from each ward
in the stake, address, paper, poem, etc.,
the president, Minerva E. R. Knowlton,
with a very modest but heartfelt speech,
presented the late president and officers
with handsome gifts, appropriately chos-
en, from the sisters for whom they had
labored so long, Sister Grant having offici-
ated as president twenty-one years last
January.
	After the close of the exercises the
guests all repaired to the Lagoon, where
a sumptuous banquet was partaken of,
and greatly enjoyed by all, and the most
delightful interchange of friendliness par-
ticipated in during the afternoon.
	It is indeed most commendable to hon-
or in some such way, while they are still
living,those who have striven so long and
so unselfishly for the good of others. It
is a beautiful custom to pay homage to
those worthy sisters whose days have
been passed in labors of fove.


