[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	The General Officers of the Primary As-
sociation gave a delightful reception at 
the Lion House on Saturday evening, 
June 8, 1907, to the visiting officers from 
various stake organizations and also en-
tertained as guests the First Presidency 
of the Church and Apostles with their 
wives, and the General Officers of the 
Relief Society. It was a unique affair, 
the exercises in harmony with the objects 
of the society itself, such as appeal to 
children. There was excellent music, 
some fancy dancing, and also quadrilles, 
etc., a few hymns were sung as solos, the
evening’s entertainment opened and 
closed with prayer. Bouquets of flowers 
were presented to the president, Louie B. 
Felt, who wtth her luxuriant white hair 
gracefully arranged, and dignified manner, 
made a charming picture in the midst of 
the festivity. Truly the children of Zion
have excellent training by these noble 
women who are devoting their lives to
the work for the little ones. Miss May 
Anderson, who has been many years
an effiicient assistant to Mrs. Felt, had 
charge of the evening’s program.
	Mrs. John Groesbeck gave a very 
charming lunch party for her mother, Mrs. 
Margaret Clawson, at her handsome new 
home on First street, on Saturday after-
noon, May 23. Everything was in excel-
lent taste, and the menu was delicious and 
daintily served. Beautiful flowers ex-
quisitely arranged, and more than all the 
dear, delightful social intercourse of old-
time friends. We are very grateful to
Mrs. Groesbeck and her sisters who helped
her to honor her mother and her mother’s
friends, and to give them such a pleasant 
opportunity to meet and greet each other 
once again as in former days. Mrs. Mar-
garet Clawson has always been a great 
favorite in home circles, where the best 
of real sociability is realized as coming 
from the heart. 
	On Friday, May 31, an afternoon tea
was given at the beautiful residence of 
Mrs. Lou Groesbeck McCune, her mother,
Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck joining with her 
in giving their mutual friends an exceed-
ingly pleasant afternoon. The home is 
dainty in all its appointments, and the 
mother and daughter delightfully hospit-
able and entertaining. One recalls at such 
times the “Pennsylvania Dilworths,”
who were noted for giving exquisite din-
ners in olden times at Nauvoo and in 
early days in the valley, when luxuries 
were not so plentiful as nowadays. In 
such companionship it is difficult to know 
how time goes, but suffice to say it flies 
all too quickly. 
	The Daughters of the Pioneers met in 
the Lion House, Wednesday, June 26, 
before closing for summer vacation, at 3
p.m., the usual hour, and were favored 
with some notable guests. President F.
M. Lyman and wife, U. S. Senator Reed
Smoot and Apostle Heber J. Grant. Each 
of these famous men occupied a few mo-
ments in reminiscences of early pioneer 
life in the west. There were also present 
Janet Young Easton and Rosalie Kimball
Edwards; Sister Easton, the daughter of 
the great pioneer Brigham Young and his 
wife Clara Decker Young, who accom-
panied him on that memorable journey in
1847; Sister Edwards the daughter of an-
other great pioneer, Heber C. Kimball

[Column 2]
and his wife Ellen Saunders Kimball, who 
accompanied him en route on that mem-
orable journey in 1847; the wife of Elder 
Lorenzo D. Young was the only other 
woman with this first company of pion-
eers. There are none of them living now, 
but there are still a few women living 
who came with the large company that 
followed the pioneers the same year, a[-]d 
two of them were present at this meeting
—Sister Ann Cannon Woodbury, then a 
young girl, and Sister Louisa Nor[-]s
Decker, who was only a child, but who 
was old enough to remember the brutal 
killing of her father by the mob in Nau-
voo, her mother’s death following a few 
weeks after, leaving her to be cared for 
by strangers. The day was interesting in 
many ways, and the “Daughters” may con-
gratulate themselves on a very successful 
year. A committee was appointed to take 
in hand and devise methods for organizing
a larger association of all the sons and 
daughters of the early pioneers, that might 
hold annual gatherings on the 24th of July.


