BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	The first day of June, Saturday, 1907,
was the anniversary of the birthday of
President Brigham Young, and according
to the custom which has been established
many years now, a large gathering of the
Young family was held in honor of the
memory of this great pioneer-founder of
Utah, its first governor and for thirty
years President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, a longer ad-
ministration than that of any other Presi-
dent.
	The people of this Western country, all
of them, should honor the memory of
Brigham Young; he it was who sought
out these valleys, who lead the people as
a veritable Moses out of the boundaries
of civilization, and who, under the
inspiration of the Lord made it possible
for thousands to come hither and find
homes and protection. His wisdom and
prudence in devising and calculating the
whole scheme of converting the then
arid desert into habitable cities and towns
with every advantage essential for the
growth and maintenance of family life,
and vegetation of the greatest variety,
are apparent to all those who knew the
man, the great master-mind.
	It is true he was surrounded with great
men, with stalwarts possessing the pion-
eer spirit, but the fact still remains that
in any question arising among them, they
all looked to him, and yielded to his
superior judgment. His capacity to see
what was necessary to be done in making
the country fruitful to the highest degree
in all that was essential in the preserva-
tion of life of man and beast was marvel-
ous.
	Too much honor cannot be shown by
his posterity and those who have par-
taken of the blessings of this Western
civilization. However his works praise
him everywhere, all about us “he lives
in deeds,” is emphatically true of Brigham
Young. He had many honorable titles,
but his name wherever it is spoken is a
eulogy in itself. Foremost among those
who assembled at Wandemere on that
day and who were called upon to speak to
the people, was our present great and
inspired leader, President Joseph F.
Smith, who paid the highest tribute to
the memory of Brigham Young that it is
possible for one great man to pay to
another. It was a powerful discourse
and his eloquence appealed to the
assembled multitude as that of no other
man could have done. Many of those
present had never known Brigham
Young personally and the time is not far
distant when there will be very few who
knew him intimately, as many do who
are now living.


There were a great number of his pos-
terity there on that occasion and it is
hoped they listened to the words of the
great leaders of the Church who addressed
them, telling of his magnanimous work
for the good of Israel and of humanity;
a philanthropist of the highest order, a
benefactor to all the world was Brigham
Young.
	These annual gatherings of the poster-
ity of the men who have been instru-
mental in building up the country, and
making “the desert blossom as the rose,”
should be perpetuated, that their children
and children’s children, down to the latest
generation may honor them; and that all
who have derived benefits through the
efforts of these noble men, who gave
their lives and the best of their manhood
to make this country desirable for free-
dom, protection, civil and religious liber-
ty for all law-abiding citizens, should
know to whom they are indebted for
these great blessings, that their names
may be engraven on the tablets of mem-
ory imperishable throughout all time.


