[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Nebo Stake Relief Socity held at Ben-
jamin meeting house, Utah, April 26,
1907. President Eliza J. Dixon presiding:
after the opening exercises, Sister Bing-
ham, President of Benjamin ward, spoke
a few words of welcome. Sister Dixon

[Column 2]
spoke of the great effort that had been
put forth in the erection of their new
meeting house, prayed for the spirit of
the Lord to be with us on this occasion,
we are working in a noble cause.
	President Wall reported Santaquin
ward. She had a band of willing sisters
to do their duty, also said that a mother’s
first duty was to her children, that she
was the only one living in that ward, that
knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, “we
should all be one in the Lord if we are
not one we are not his.”
	Sister Ferguson, President of Lake
Shore ward gave in her report, they had
a hard time in winter on account of bad
roads and their scattered condition.
	Payson, first ward, reported by Sister
Alispach, they have on hand among
other things 56 dollars missionary fund,
she enjoyed her labors in Relief Society
work, said may God help us to be faithful
and firm in the Gospel.
	Payson, second ward, President Ells-
worth said “we are engaged in the work
of the Lord.” 36 dollars missionary fund
on hand gave it to the bishop to use as
needed for the missionaries.
	Song, Lois Mace.
	Sister Evans spoke on the Relief So-
ciety conference, held in Salt Lake City,
April 4th, referred particularly to a speech
made by Sister Dusenberry and spoke of
the welcome speech by President B. W.
Smith “it was a mistake in thinking that
none but elderly sisters should belong to
the Relief Society.
	Rec. Sister Nora Hone, “Selling the
Farm.”
	Bishop Johnson said how pleased he
was to meet with the Relief Society sist-
ers, said he was not a stranger in the so-
ciety in his ward, spoke on the society
work, he had been fed and clothed by
strangers while on a mission, he did not
think that sisters could be good members
of the Church and not belong to the Relief
Society, welcomed all to his ward.
	President Dixon gave a few words of
encouragement.
	Closed by singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.”
	Prayer by Brother Alpheus Bingham.
	2 o’clock p. m. conference reconvened.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing, Prayer by Brother William Stewart,
singing.
	Sister Kappel of the stake presidency
gave some of the conference news, said
we should prepare ourselves for the com-
ing of the Savior, spoke of President
Jos. F. Smith’s message to the world.
	Sister Emily Bingham read a paper on
nursing and nurse work.
	Quartett by Sister Hazel Ludlow and
others.
	Paper read by Sister Morrison on
“Motherhood and Child Culture,”
	Sister Mary Brown of the Stake Board
spoke on Relief Society work.
	Patriarch Evans gave the conference
some good instructions; “it gave him
pleasure to listen to the remarks of the
sisters, spoke on race suicide and its
consequences in another life.
	Sister Dixon spoke on the 58 sec. of
Doc. and Cov.
	Closed by the choir singing an anthem,
“Sun of my soul.”
	Benediction by Brother Henry Hone.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.


