[Column 1]
	THE NEW VOLUME XXXVI.
	This number is the initial one of an-
other volume of our little paper, and as
these are times of great progress in the
Reliel Society, and among women gener-
ally, and more especially the women of
our own Church, it would seem essential
that the sisters should renew and increase
the subscriptions, that a greater interest
might be taken in making it more than
ever, truly representative of the magnific-
ent work in which the women of Zion are
taking part.
	President Brigham Young said to the
editor, “Make the sisters understand that
it is their record, their history, and let it
be preserved as such;” biographies of the
celebrated women of the Church, was
one of the subjects he insisted upon hav-
ing published. A large number of these
have been written and are on record for
reference; during the past year in connec-
tion with the mothers’ work, these histor-
ies of our departed sisters, and of some
who are living now, have been studied
and brought before the society in many
wards, so that numbers of our women,
who had only heard the names of these
remarkable characters, who were asso-
ciated with the founding of the Church in
this dispensation, have learned of their
lives and what they passed through, in
the days of the early struggles for the
establishment of what is now so great an
organization as the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. Every phase of
the real public work of our women has
been duly recorded in this little paper;
and the books are kept, they have been
bound in volumes by some of the sisters,
and might have been by many others had
they taken a little care to preserve
them.
	It is wefl for the sisters to realize that
they are making history all the time, as
the days and months and years roll on;
so that even if books were written they
only cover a certain period; but a paper
or periodical carries forward what is be-
ing done on and on, Perhaps there are
some of our sisters who have never given
this idea a thought, but when they want
some particular fact or item on a subject
in which they are especially interested
then they enquire where such material
can be found. There is seldom a day in
the office of this paper, that there are not
inquiries made concerning past events, or
circumstances relating to woman’s work

[Column 2]
that necessitate reference to the Expon-
ent; and letters from all quarters (one
might almost say) that must be replied
to if the information can be obtained by
hunting through bound volumes.
	This is only a hint to the sisters, who
are not in a position to know about these
things. In view of the great good that
has been done in the past since the paper
first came into existence, and in consider-
ation of the greater and much more im-
portant future, we trust the sisters of the
Relief Society in all the several stakes of
Zion and in all the wards of the stakes,
will take hold of the matter and see what
can be done to maintain what is to each
one of them, and to every woman in Zion
a repository of the actual philanthropic
and religious work done by themselves as
a great organization, the very greatest and
grandest there is anywhere.
	It is difficult amid the accumulation of
cares and duties that come into every day
of the lives of these dear sisters, to dwell
upon the vast magnitude of the work in
general, and to think of their own share in
it, yet each one is an essential factor of
the great whole; and each member of the
society, which was organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith himself for the
betterment of the women of Zion, as well
as for the amelioration and care of the
sick and the needy, is uplifted in the best
sense of the word by the furtherance of
the work in its increasing magnitude and
power for the good of communities, and
society at large in all the places where a
foothold has been obtained to introduce
the Gospel.
	If it were possible to speak to each in-
dividual woman and impress each one
with the vast importance of the Relief
Society, in a “heart to heart talk,” one
might then hope for successful results;
however such personal conversation is not
possible for any one, however deeply one
may be impressed, therefore it rests with
those of our sisters who appreciate the
Exponent, fully realizing what it might
be to our sisters in the great future, to do
what is possible in each ward to awaken
an interest in the matter, so that they
shall not have any delinquencies or irreg-
ularities in the issue of the paper, and
that will in itself render it of much more
valuable assistance to the Society.
	There are those dear sisters who have
never faltered in their allegiance, and
who always pay promptly and in advance,
notably Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, Sis-
ter Jane S. Richards, Sister Julia C.
Howe, Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Sister Eliza R. Snow, who together with
President Brigham Young was instru-
mental in founding the paper, used to pay
every year in advance for two copies; we
mention these facts to show how desirous
these good, faithful sisters are to have the
paper better supported.
	There are other women outside of our
Society and Church who take the paper
and pay for it, and think it worth the
while, and possibly our readers all know
there are those in missions and afar off,
who need the paper in their work and
whose circumstances are such that they
are entitled to have it sent to them free.
In fact, the Woman’s Exponent travels
far into many countries, and into many
homes of the lowly and of the high-born.
Women of distinction in literary circles,
authors and writers have spoken in com-
plimentary terms of it, and even men,

[Column 3]
who have traveled far and wide, have
commended it as containing nothing ob-
jectionable, as they say “all American
papers do,” meaning sensational matter,
scandals and divorces, etc.
	Certainly the Woman’s Exponent has
been a benefit and help to the women of
Zion, and let us hope and believe that as
there is now a much wider field open for
advancement along many lines that it
may have increased influence, by the
larger encouragement in the increase of
patronage.


