[Vol2 | September 1915 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Selfishness of Jacob and Rachel]

The "Selfishness'' of Jacob and Rachel By Nephi Anderson, author of "Added Upon." His name was Johan Jacob Henri Sweizermann; and hers was Maria Rachel Ellen Brown. As this is somewhat of a genealogical story, I would better give the data in the case as correctly as possible. I'll tell about him first. J. J. H. Sweizermann, commonly known to us as Jacob, was born in Schleswig-Holstein in 1855, of Danish-German parentage. His wife died before he came to this country, about ten years ago. He has no children. Up to three years ago, he lived in Southern Utah, where his Danish-German thrift brought him means enough so that he could come to the city and devote the remainder of his life to temple work. Jacob was not wealthy, be it understood. He lived by himself. His wants were few, and his life was the essence of simplicity. When he paid his first visit to the office of the Genealogical Society he brought with him quite an extended record which he had obtained by many years of effort. In his timid, quiet way, and his broken English, he explained that he wanted help with his record — he wanted to begin work in the temple for his people, and would we help him to get started? He would be glad to pay us for assistance. We enrolled him as a life member in the Society, took into our keeping his record, made out some temple sheets for him, and gave him the instructions needed for him to get started. For profuse He was his thanks a year in Jacob we had us done. for what visited Sweizermann regularly, about once a week, to get names and to make a deposit on a fund which he had to pay for assistance in the female line of his work. He had no relatives, he stated, and he was compelled to get others to help him, and for this he was very willing to pay the trifling sum required. Jacob was what is termed a "character." He always came into the office with a smile on his ruddy, smooth-shaven face. A perfect peace seemed to have taken complete possession of him. He was oblivious to all things about him, except the work in hand. "I am so thankful," he would usually say, and we came to understand that he meant a great deal by this — thankful that the Lord had directed him through the various walks of life and had at last led him to this land and this city where there is a temple in which he might do a really unselfish work. 
 Things went on placidly with Brother Jacob for about a year. Then one day he came into the office without the smile. asked. "Good morning, Brother, what is the matter?" I instinctively He sat down, and twirled his hat nervously in his hands. He could not speak for a moment. Then he said, "It is very bad — very bad. I haf money no longer. I must go home." The old man brushed away a tear from his face. We listened to him patiently, and showed our genuine sympathy. It seems that someone not so honest as he had defrauded him, and he would have to cease his temple work and go home to straighten out things, if he could. We expressed our regrets and hoped he would soon return. He was gone a month. One afternoon just before closing time, he came panting up the steps. His hair seemed grayer and his face more deeply furrowed, but the smile was still there. We greeted him warmly. "I know you close at five," he explained, "and so I hurry to see you." "When did you get back?" "Today — just now. I couldn't wait." "And how are things at home?" "Bad, very bad — I have notings left." But Jacob was not discouraged. He had prospects of a job in the city — janitor in an apartment house. He could do his work, if he got it, and still continue his labors in the temple, he declared. We wished him success, and he smiled his thanks, as we went down stairs together. Jacob obtained his position. This was early in the spring, and the grounds about his apartment had to be looked after. He was eminently fitted for this, and so his temple work had to be somewhat neglected. However, as the warm weather came, and there was little to do in the way of firing, Jacob had more time to himself and he managed to spend three half days each week in the temple. He always came to us with his genealogical troubles. One day he said: "I haf some difficulty." "What is it?" we asked. "I need more female verkers. I haf done many mens, but my vimens go slow." We understood this very well. During the first year of his temple work he had devoted himself to the male line, thinking that later he would engage someone to help him with the females. Now, when he could least afford it, he would have to get assistance in his work. Could we recommend someone?