IBAQO Ht The Home Coming By Caroline Eyring Miner HERE'S mamma?' That's what we always asked at our home when mother wasn't half way down the lane to meet us whenever we came home. And what a disappointment that question spelled. At the mere suggestion my thoughts wing home as surely as the homing pigeon finds its nest. I see my mother once again rise from her chair on the porch where she has been braiding a rag rug and come joyously to greet us as we enter the short lane that leads to the house. She could never wait for us to get home but came half way to meet us with arms and heart open to gather us to her as if she wished in that one loving embrace to assure us of the security of her love against the buffetings of the whole world. She always was, and still is, a very busy mother. I don't believe I ever saw her idle in my life and she arose early every day in the year. In fact she was in such a habit of it that even when she went away to visit and there was nothing particular for her to do she was up before daylight sewing or reading if she couldn't rake up something more strenuous to do. She was always busy?but never too busy to meet us and greet us when we came home. "This place is the grandest place in the world", she said often of our old home place. She was ever superlative in her speech and could never be critical of anything in the sense of finding fault with it. As she told each of us children in turn that he was the dearest, most thoughtful child a mother ever had we felt bolstered up and sustained for a better struggle with our problems big and little another time. This optimism and gratitude for her own, greeted us every time we entered the door in spirit if not in words. What a tug it was to draw and keep us home I have only begun to appreciate. WHEN we went away from home for longer than the day, to school or to teach school at a distance there was always a bustle of housecleaning and cooking of our especially favored dishes upon our arriva! Home, with best of all father and mother to hug and kiss and praise and cry over us all at once. I used to wonder how mother had enough endearing words and kisses and energy to go around for all the home comings there were in our big family, but it was a well that never went dry. As I remember reading of another mother, her heart enlarged with every child as the body did, with the difference that her heart stayed big enough to hold and love all of her children at once. It was fun to go away just for the glorious home coming. MOTHER went away herself many times; her Relief Society work and practical nursing took her away from us all too often. Once she went to Utah for a year to nurse my grandmother who was very ill. Somehow we pinch-hitted along without her but what a glorious home coming we tried to make for her when she returned. We tried to imitate all the home comings we had seen her prepare for all at once. As U remember the oldest girls of us at home were ten and twelve and we cleaned the house until it shone?at 760 least where it showed. And what an array of soggy, burned cookies and cakes we had! Mother liked them though, everything, at least she said so in her superlative optimistic way and we felt perfectly happy and contented with it all. Every time mother returned from even a short stay away she had some surprise done up in a very secret way in her suitcase. I know now that all the dainties, oranges, or candy, or cakes, or apples that came secretly from that bag were things that had been given to her and which she wouldn't eat in order to have a happy surprise for her children. Often they were hard and dried or crumbled, but tasted delicious beyond expression to us then. Mother didn't like oranges. I thought as a child that it was such a fortunate dislike for us and now I believe she didn't like them just on purpose so we could have them and not realize she was denying them to herself which would have partly spoiled them for us. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HOME comings were always joyous in our home. They were real occasions whether our stay from home had been long or short. And they were so happy because of the parents and children there and the little things they did and said. It wasn't only because the mother was well and strong and able to clean and cook and run down the lane to welcome us home although these things were inseparable with our home comings. It was rather because of the joyous spirit of the mother who was there, her confidence in her children, the security they knew was theirs in their mother's almost blinded exaggeration of their perfection. If she had been flat on her back as some mothers are, I think it would have been the same. Then we would have gone in to her. A real home coming is not a reunion of the bodies of the members of a family only; it is the reunion and revitalization of their spirits.