Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon In bleak November when trees were bare The Pilgrims knelt in praise and prayer. Of Utah, during her extended visit to the Hawaiian Islands this past summer personally visited and addressed members of the Leper colony at Molokai, giving to these imprisoned souls words of comfort and of hope. DOROTHY TAYLOR of Brooklyn, won first prize in the nation-wide women's essay contest on the subject "What woman has contributed most to the development of the United States from 1825 to the present time?" Her subject, "Mrs. Jones," developed the theme that her contribution was children. Among the 300 entries the names of Jane Addams, Susan B. Anthony and other notables appeared. FQuaL suffrage for the women of Mexico is promised by President Cardenas. He pleads for the integration of women in the national life. At the same time President Quezon of Manilla threatens to veto any suffrage law unless it requires a head tax. PATRICIA MAGUIRE, beautiful Chicago girl, died suddenly this past summer from bronchial pneumonia. For five years she had sleeping sickness from which her family and physician thought she would recover. ANITA LIZANA, of Chile, captured the 1937 national women's singles tennis championship. Mrs. LOUISE Y. ROBISON of Utah, during her extended visit to the Hawaiian Islands this past summer personally visited and addressed members of the Leper colony at Molokai, giving to these imprisoned souls words of comfort and of hope. DOROTHY TAYLOR of Brooklyn, won first prize in the nation-wide women's essay contest on the subject "What woman has contributed most to the development of the United States from 1825 to the present time?" Her subject, "Mrs. Jones," developed the theme that her contribution was children. Among the 300 entries the names of Jane Addams, Susan B. Anthony and other notables  appeared. EQUAL suffrage for the women of Mexico is promised by President Cardenas. He pleads for the integration of women in the national life. At the same time President Quezon of Manilla threatens to veto any suffrage law unless it requires a head tax. PATRICIA MAGUIRE, beautiful Chicago girl, died suddenly this past summer from bronchial pneumonia. For five years she had sleeping sickness from which her family and physician thought she would recover. CLARA FIFE, of Newcastle, England, is chairman of Britain's conservative party and presided at the conferences of that august body. She is the first woman to hold that chairmanship. Mrs. KATE M. BARKER is Chairman of the Woman's Exchange, recently established under the direction of the National Woman's Relief Society. The Exchange is for the encouragement and financial aid of the home woman, skilled in different lines of domestic art. HELEN KELLER, blind lecturer, whose mastery over adverse conditions excited the admiration of the world, showed her usual courage recently, when forced to undergo a major operation at the Mayo clinic in Minnesota. ELEANOR ROOSEVELT was the guiding hand in establishing the Industrial School for Negroes at Warm Springs, Ga. The curriculum includes courses in agriculture, home economics, wood carving, ironmongering and regular scholastic work from the primary to the ninth grades. ANN BRIDGES' new novel, "Enchanter's Nightshade," is a charming story with an Italian setting. Susan Ertz has again taken up a semi-biographical story in her "No Hearts to Break." It is the story of the American wife of Jerome Bonaparte. HRISTY COLES of Utah has a delicate sonnet ''Perhaps" in a New York collection of selected poems called "Candle in the Light."