The Little Things In Life That Make Us Happy Or Unhappy By Fae Decker Dix O we stress the little things too much? Are we prone to overdo them? My mother used to teach us to take care of the little things, tie up all the little ends, before we tackled a big job. Never were we allowed to settle down to a book, our Jessons, or the dress we were sewing until the little household tasks had been performed, the dishes, the dusting, the bed making. When all of this was in order then we were ready for the tasks that required greater concentration. And we found it easier to concentrate in a room of orderly surroundings. "Do the little things first and the big ones will automatically take care of themselves," was the formula of my mother's philosophy. And, I have always found it good. LITTLE THINGS IN LIFE Do you remember what started the quarrel in your home yesterday? Or, the hostile argument in a group of conversationalists? Or, even the greatest wars of the world? Almost always it has been a little thing, sometimes so trifling one cannot recall it after the smoke has cleared away. Verily, it behooves each of us to guard the little acts of our lives. HERE is victory in the struggle for anything. And, all the world loves a struggle." There is something splendid in the realization that one is giving one's soul to the struggle for a worthy desire. The full richness of life cannot be known without struggle. The consciousness that we are fighting against odds somehow lends us courage. "To have conquered a bad habit, to have overcome a prejudice, to have attained a new, desirable attitude, to have achieved, through struggle, any goal worth striving for, makes the goal seem doubly dear." Christ struggled. And, He did not ever overlook the little things. He gave love to everything. Never a soul came to him with trouble too small for His consideration. Let us strive to be successful in these little things: Finding something to be grateful for in every sorrow. Smiling even when it hurts. Liking all kinds of weather. Expressing appreciation for the beautiful things of Nature. Remembering that "To have what we want is riches; to be able to do without is power." Searching for the spark of good in even the worst hearts. When what you most longed for to succeed, finally fails; or, someone else succeeds with it, learn to draw 761 a deep breath, grit your teeth, and say, "Well, I'll just get out of it all the good I can... And not repeat my mistakes." If you hate something you must suffer through, bear it bravely and do your best with it, remembering patience. Look for some good in it. There must be some good in every experience. AN D, then, let us strive to keep out of our lives the little discontents. They make us so unhappy? that futile yearning to travel in foreign lands when we haven't the money; that longing for a mansion to live in when we can only afford a wee cottage; or the sad hope for fame. Fame does not ever bring true happiness just of itself. Every seeker for happiness must eventually come back home and look in his own heart. If he finds peace there, and understanding for his fellows, then he must surely find happiness, too. After all, if you can say, "I have health. I have someone to love. I have food to eat, work to do, clothes to cover me, I have given my best to this day's task,"... Can a king have more? Materially perhaps, but we do not take material things along when we go to receive our certificate at the throne of judgment. We cannot take anything but the character we have built. How, then, shall each of us fare when we approach that hour and see the whole record of our achievement on this earth laid out before us? What is there actually left of each of us after all the material things in our surroundings are taken away? Therein lies the keynote of the work we have to do, and out of that shall come each man's "certificate." And, I believe these "certificates" will be graded and bestowed largely from the LITTLE THINGS we did on Earth.  AN ACCOUNT RENDERED Or why does someone shudder When the silver raindrops fall? When the prices all are told? What this man paid for the love he took, And that one paid for his gold! As night softly lowers her pall? And, what did the lad in the blue suit pay We might have the great understanding SS OS ee i aaa WHEN you want to find something for a gift with a lovely personal touch, come to 'Mormon y Handicraft." From its wide variety of hand-made articles you id N may discover just the thing you are looking for. Summer Weather? You'll Want Comfort! No meals to cook over a hot stove these weeks of summer if you'll plug into an electric outlet some of these handy electric appliances: TOASTERS-?-EGG COOKERS?BROILERS?WAFFLE IRONS?SANDWICH MAKERS AND HANDY GRILLS