Chrysanthemums for Color By Dorothy Nell Muir
WHEN the daylight of early fall grows shorter and afternoons bring dusk to shaded corners, every housewife tries to work into her budget the price of a cheerful bouquet. It is the time of the year when we reluctantly give up the colorful things of summer, and just as reluctantly, accept the approach of winter. We need a bit of beauty to fortify our spirits, and this comes to us in the bold, majestic chrysanthemum.
Because of its many different varieties from large poms to very small "button" blooms, and its delicate colorings, one can easily group chrysanthemum bouquets about any room with a pleasing harmony. The chrysanthemum is the flower of Thanksgiving time. Perhaps, because it blooms at a season of the year when naked trees and chill winds forecast the coming of bleak days and cold weather, we herald the first bloom with a spark of reverence.
LIKE the rose, the chrysanthemum is a romantic flower, its history dating back to the time of Confucius five hundred years before Christ. From China, the flower was later taken into Japan where it became a great favorite of the people and was adopted as the emblem of their highest order and the crest and official seal of the Mikado. So much did the Japanese love and esteem this pompous bloom, designs of the flower were used extensively on sword hilts, bronzes, pottery, artwork and lacquer-ware.
An old sea captain, returning from the Orient to Marseilles, brought the plant into France for the first time where it created a good deal of curiosity and speculation. Later, other tea merchants brought it into England about 1795. Ships from the Orient continued to bring the flower to the European Continent and England until a general interest created a commercial demand.
It was the Japanese Emperor, Uda, who instituted the first chrysanthemum show in 900 A. D. The next exhibition of importance was held in England in 1846 when seedlings of a small variety were shown. During the years that followed, it was regarded as a florist's flower, and societies for its cultivation sprang up everywhere. So popular has it become, it is now second only to the rose. Certainly no other flower has a more colorful history
694
savoring of the splendor of the East.
IN the home, the chrysanthemum is an ideal bouquet flower, clinging tenaciously to life as though reluctant to withdraw its stately presence. The people of Japan, the greatest flower-lovers in the world, have taught us the significance of flowers as a home decoration. To them, flower arrangement is an accomplished art, an expression of individuality. They have learned the effectiveness of a few flowers properly grouped together, rather than many flowers bunched in crowded vases.
The prevailing colors in the room govern the colors of the flowers used, as one should emphasize the other. Bright bouquets should be placed in darker corners to add life and cheerfulness. Flowers placed near a window should harmonize with the over-drapes, and the vases in which flowers are held should not detract from the flowers, but should give them background.
Use tall vases for arranging the long-stem
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
chrysanthemums and do not crowd them. Neither should they all be of one length. Irregular lengths add a garden naturalness to the arrangement. Combinations, too, are effective, and the chrysanthemum lends itself pleasingly to color harmony with other flowers. Bronze and yellow chrysanthemums are effective when grouped together; also, pink roses and yellow chrysanthemums make a delightful bouquet. Either of these combinations on your Thanksgiving or Christmas dinner table would give it a regal appearance.
The many varieties of the flower mean a scaling price range adaptable to every budget. But even those of the larger and more select variety are not expensive when properly used. Two or three large blooms can make an effective centerpiece, either alone, or when combined with other flowers, for it is not the number of blooms that gives an artistic effect, but the way in which they are arranged and the container in which they are placed.