Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony Lesson 5
SOME THOUGHTS ON PRAYER AND THE REIGN OF LAW IN THE MASTER'S TEACHING
Helpful References
In the New Testament: Matthew 6:5-13; 17:14-21; 21: 13-22; 23:14; 26:36-44; Luke 3: 21-22; 5:33-35; 6:12;9:18; 11:1- 13; 18:1-8.
In the Book of Mormon: 2 Nephi 32:8-9; Enos 1-18; Alma 10:22-23; 22:16; 33:2-11; 34:18- 29; 3 Nephi 12:44; 18:19-23; 19: 6-10, 22-35; 27:1-2; Moroni 2-6.
In the Doctrine and Covenants: 10:5; 19:28; 20:33, 47; 25:12; 29:2; 65; 68:33; 84:61; 88:62- 65, 83; 98:1-2; 101:7; 109; 130: 20-21.
Talmage, Jesus the Christ: pp. 237-242, 395, 434-36, 609-614.
Brown, Why I Believe in Religion: Chapter IV.
Leighton, Religion and the Mind of Today: Chapter XXVIII (Use discreetly)
1. Christ Taught Men to Pray.? The teachings of Christ breathe the spirit of prayer. The example of His own life shows how completely He looked to a power higher than Himself. If the Son of God had recourse to prayer to help him fulfil His mortal career, how much more ought ordinary men to seek divine aid. The Savior taught both by precept and example the secret of successful prayer. No true follower of Christ can miss His express injunctions in reference to it.
2. Is Prayer Becoming a Lost Art??Many observers believe that prayer is rapidly becoming a lost art. If it is, we ought, as a Church, to guard ourselves from losing one of the most important aids to the spiritual life. It may not be amiss at this point to note the observation of an American scholar who is particularly interested in the trend of religious beliefs among the scientists of our country. He says, "In the absence of belief in a God who hears and sympathizes with man, and who, under certain conditions, answers his prayers, traditional worship could not go on. It appeared to me, therefore, of the greatest interest to secure definite information regarding the prevalence of that belief among scientists and students." His study ranges over a period of twenty years. The conclusion he finally comes to as a result of careful observation is as follows: "Nothing in contemporary anti-materialistic science countenances belief in the God of the religions?a God, who, on request, calms the raging seas, cures the sick, transforms depression into elation, delivers from temptation, and accepts thanks and praises for his merciful deeds." We can be thankful that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is still "traditional" so far as belief in the efficacy of true prayer and worship is concerned. Let us hope that prayer does not become a lost art to Latter-day Saints!
3. Some Reasons for Neglect of Prayer?For centuries before the Reformation, organized religion had held back or positively thwarted the efforts of men to get at the truth in the physical world, indeed in most realms of legitimate research. Since that time the attainment by men of greater freedom to think and to in-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
vestigate has produced a revolution in our world. This is especially true of the work of the past one hundred years. The tremendous increase in the influence of science and its methods has led many to the belief that science, not religion, will be the means of saving the world from its evils and produce a positive era of righteousness. The use of the scientific method has produced such a change in our physical environment and in our thinking that it is quite natural for many to believe that man is quite sufficient in himself, that the universe is held in the grip of cold hard forces any amount of yearning and petition cannot change?in effect, that prayer and worship have little or no potency in such a universe. Not all scientists by any means believe in such doctrine. But enough do believe in it to cause widespread doubt in the traditional efficacy of prayer and worship.
4. The Church Teaches the Necessity of Prayer?The Church in this dispensation reaffirms the teachings of the Christ on prayer as given in the New Testament. In fact the risen, resurrected Lord Himself is the author of the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in which prayer is mentioned. Thus the Lord says, "Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Redeemer, the Great I Am, whose arm of mercy hath atoned for your sins who will gather his people even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, even as many as will hearken to my voice and humble themselves before me, and call upon me in mighty prayer." (Doctrine and Covenants 29:1-2) It is instructive to consult the Index and Concordance in the current edition of the Doctrine and Covenants on Pray, Prayer, Prayers, and to note the number and variety of references. No true Latter-day Saint can afford to neglect prayer in the
741
light of modern revelation. "All victory and glory is brought to pass unto you through your diligence, faithfulness, and prayers of faith." (Doctrine and Covenants 103:36)
5. God Answers Prayers In Accordance With Law.?Men see clearly enough the reign of law in the physical world, but ofttimes they lack sufficient insight in matters spiritual. If the latter were acquired, men would see that Law and order prevail as rigidly in that realm as in the world of matter. It need not be supposed that if God answered prayers there would necessarily exist confusion and contradiction in the world of nature. The Savior said to the Nephites during His glorious ministry among them, "Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name: and whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you." (3 Nephi 20:19- 20) "Which is right, believing that ye shall receive" is the key to the matter; that is the law in the spiritual realm. Prayer and faith are essentially interdependent, and law continually reigns in the realm of the spiritual. Note in the following the law concerning faith. "And now as I said concerning faith?faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye have hope for things which are not seen, which are true." (Alma 32:21; italics ours) The Lord taught the Prophet Joseph Smith the reign of law (and it applies to prayer) when he revealed unto him, "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated?and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (Doctrine and Covenants 130:20-21) The laws of the
742
physical world go hand in hand with those of the spiritual world. In the eyes of God the temporal and spiritual are not compartmentalized. Too often we poor mortals partially learn the law pertaining to the physical realm and then make the mistake of drawing sweeping conclusions about the spiritual realm.
6. Christ Taught His Disciples the Law Pertaining to Prayer?Christ taught that prayer ought to be offered with real intent and not with a hypocritical spirit. It was to be done simply and not with ostentation. The simplicity of the Lord's prayer is remarkable. Prayer to be effective must often be persevered in. The remarkable parables of the Importunate Friend (Luke 11:5-10) and the unjust Judge (Luke 18:1-8) drive home this very point. "And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." Also, "If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?" (See Luke 11:9, 13) The disciples of Christ knew definitely that their prayers would be answered if they obeyed His instructions. "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering." (James 1:5-6)
Questions
1. Do you believe that God in response to earnest prayer may change the usual order of nature and send rain, good weather, or good crops? Attempt to give an answer that would satisfy a reasonable thinking person.
2. How may God answer our prayers by not giving us what we ask for?
3. How would you answer the argument that God rules over too vast a universe to be able to pay attention to the prayers of insignificant creatures like ourselves?
4. What interesting lessons about prayer can you learn from Enos 1-18 in the Book of Mormon?
Problems
Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. By reference to the scriptures list the main requirements for an answer to prayer. Do you believe these are as binding as any of the ordinary laws of nature?
2. Show by reference to incidents in the life of Joseph Smith that he had to obey law in the spiritual realm before he obtained blessings.
Teacher's Topic Lesson 5
THE REASONABLENESS OF JESUS
"To be a Christian is to admire Jesus so sincerely and so fervently that the whole life goes out to him in a desire to be like him."
"Reason is the guiding and directing faculty which enables us to increase the richness and value of life."
MILLIONS of people on earth are engaged in the quest for personal happiness. But the human family is prone to err, constantly doing things which retard it in reaching its goal. Things which, upon analysis, prove neither reasonable nor satisfying. Reasonableness, lev-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
el-headedness, common sense is comparatively rare. Yet this element of character is fundamental and of intrinsic worth. Who is not greatly complimented when called a person of common sense! "We call it common sense, not because it is prevalent, but because it is a combination of the qualities and forces which, scattered among many individuals, may be said to belong to the common race of men." The individual who evidences this trait is the one whose life has richness and value.
Jesus' life was the epitome of common sense. His attitude toward life was reasonable. The tragedy of the world to him was that men failed to live that they "might have joy." He said, "I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly."
Jesus reasoned with men in regard to the right way of living. He exhorted the people at Caesarea Philippi, "What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul." "Every sentence of the Sermon on the Mount is a pearl and every paragraph is the classical expression of unadulterated common sense."
The reasonableness of Jesus is evidenced in all his teachings. The Jews had great reverence for the Sabbath and the rules for its observance were so numerous that it had degenerated almost into slavery. The view of Christ on Sabbath observance was reasonable?"The Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath." "Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath days or to do evil? To save life, or to kill?" Thus he reasoned with the Jews.
Consider how he breaks down the objections of foolish men to prayer. "What man is there of you who if his son shall ask him for a loaf will give him a stone? If ye then being
743
evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him."
The life and character of the Savior is the standard by which to gauge the lives and characters of all men?In achieving true happiness the exercise of common sense is essential?Individuals must be rational beings, thinking clearly, judging wisely; evaluating all things in the light of the ultimate best good. The right concept of each situation, person, thing, event, value and relation is imperative. The responses made must be such as to promote well being. Common sense enables men to face life squarely, taking stock of and utilizing their actual and potential abilities. Reason dictates that we must free ourselves from worry, guard against mental depressions, letting faith and courage replace fear, doing always those things which our own highest interests and those of others require we should do. Then be content and confide in Him who knows why the worlds revolve.
References: Jefferson?Character Of Jesus. John 10:10; Mark 8:36; Matt. Chapters 5, 6 and 7; Mark 2: 27 and 3:4.
Questions
1. What constitutes a common sense attitude toward life?
2. Analyze the Sermon on the Mount and explain why it may be called, "the classical expression of common sense."
3. Give illustrations other than those given in the lesson of the reasonableness of Jesus.
4. What constitutes common sense with regard to worry; toward living standards; education; religion?
 
Literature Lesson 5
LOG CABIN LADY
"It isn't done in England." That statement or one like it was a constant reminder to Mary, "the log cabin lady," that her social education had been sadly neglected. You will remember that she had engaged a Scotch lady of aristocratic birth to act as tutor for her. This arrangement, however, lasted but "one terrible week." The Scotch lady was, perhaps, just a bit too insistent upon what "is done in England."
Mary, as we have called the author of "Log Cabin Lady," pictures the break with the Scotch Tutor rather well, and at the same time, gives the reader a glimpse into her own American heart. In the presence of her husband and two important visitors, Mary had spoken to her chef waiter and had given him presents for the children.
"When we were alone," she wrote, "the Scotch lady turned to me. 'In England,' she said, 'ladies never converse with their servants, particularly in the presence of guests.'
"Then she sealed her doom. 'Ladies never make gifts to their servants,' she added. 'Their secretaries, housekeepers, or companions disburse their bounty.'
"I remembered the old U. S. A. An American chef waiter might hope to be the father of a President...
"I would learn table manners from an English lady of aristocratic birth and social experience; but when it came to the human act of a little gift to a faithful servant, I declared my American independence.
"I was homesick for Wisconsin, homesick for real and simple people. I wanted to go home!
"That night Tom and I had our first real quarrel, and it was over my dismissal of the Scotch lady of aristocratic birth."
Mary felt friendless and lonely in England chiefly because she did not know how to get along well with people. She was self-conscious and diffident. She had dreamed much of England and its famous places and people, but she found herself unhappy among the shrines of her dreams,
A week-end in the country where Mary evidently thought she would find rural life such as she had known in Wisconsin and where, instead, she met dignity and form, added to her troubles. Unused to English country ways she had taken only bare necessities with herself and husband for the stay.
Upon her return to London, however, Tom insisted that she get another companion. This time she was more fortunate and got not only a lady of splendid breeding and standing, but a friendly companion as well. Her name was the Honorable Evelyn, "but we quickly got down to Mary and Eve," Mary declared. With this lady as her companion, Mary went to France with her husband where the free and easy manners of the French aided in restoring her poise. Eve proved to be a priceless asset and the two women became warm friends instead of tutor or companion, pupil or mistress.
In writing of her French experience, Mary says: "There is something in being born on a silken couch. Nothing surprises you. You are at ease anywhere in the world. Eve fitted into Paris as naturally as in her native London. I began to feel at home there myself....
LESSON DEPARTMENT
"My new friends in Paris discovered my happy secret," wrote Mary. (She was to become a mother.) "It was my all-absorbing thought and I was delighted to be able to discuss it frankly. Motherhood is the great and natural event in the life of a woman in France, and no one makes a secret of it. I was very happy in Paris. And then ?Tom had to go to Vienna." In Vienna Mary found form and ritual and dress even more rigid than in England. The acts of important people were governed entirely by the clock. She, having a mind of her own, rebelled and made Tom do the social honors while she and Eve enjoyed the museums. She was not sad when after a short time Tom was called back to England. Upon her return to England Mary made her last "bad break.'' Upon being told by Mr. Gladstone that she looked tired and needed to go to Harwarden Castle for a rest, she replied: "... It isn't that?I'm not tired. It is such a happy reason!" "I felt Eve gasp. Mr. Gladstone opened his kind eyes very wide and his heavy chin settled down in his collar. "Tt was the last bad break I made," she said. "But it was a blessing to me, for it robbed all social forms of terror. For the first time, I realized that custom is merely a matter of geography. One takes off one's shoes to enter the presence of the ruler of Persia. One wears a black tie until eleven o'clock in Vienna?or doesn't. One uses fish knives in England until he dines with royalty ??then one must manage with a fork and piece of bread. One dresses for dinner always, and waits for the hostess to say it is time, and speaks only to one's neighbor at table. In France one's guest speaks to any or all of the others; all one's friends extend congratulations if a baby is 745 coming; one shares all his joys with friends. But in England nobody must know, and everybody must be surprised. No one ever speaks of himself in England.... "With the aid of Eve I made a thorough study of the geography of social customs...." The remainder of the page, at least, should be read in class, for it not only gives a statement of the understanding of this girl who had suffered with a "social custom inferiority complex" but also of an easy way to become at home among all people. "Fear is the destroyer of peace," Mary continued in chapter six. "I knew no peace until I learned not to be afraid of conventions. The three most wretched years of my life might easily have been avoided by a little training at home or at school." After their baby was born Mary and Tom made a hurried trip to the United States. While they were over here, Tom sent for Mary's mother and the twins. ".... And they arrived at the Waldorf Hotel, where we were staying. Dear, simple mother, in her terrible clothes, and the twins got up with more thought of economy than beauty!" Mary shopped with the twins, but was surprised to find that her mother liked best to remain at home with the baby. "With all the children she had brought into the world one might think she had seen enough of babies. But she adored my little son. How near she seemed to me then! How hungry I had been for her without realizing it! I felt that she loved my baby boy as she had never loved me or any of her own children." The remainder of page 72 as well as pages 73 and 74 might well be read. It is touching in its beauty. A little later the trio?Tom, Mary and the baby?returned to Europe where life was still somewhat bitter for the lady who, on account of the 746 vacancies left in her education, was unable to adjust. Mary lays her finger on her trouble in the following words: "A hard and bare youth had made me supersensitive and suspicious and narrow. I wanted to measure people by the standards of my own primitive years. I resented good manners because I believed they were a cloak of hypocrisy." While they were still in England, the baby died. Tom asked for a leave and the couple went back to Wisconsin to visit Mary's folks. It was then she discovered that Tom was genuine through and through despite the fact that he had good manners. He was perfectly at home on the farm and among the farmers with whom he associated. "Tom was natural," says she in describing that visit. "It was just a part of him to be kindly and gracious to everybody." Tom and Mary, now a bit older, returned to England and Europe where they lived many years, Mary knowing at last how to conduct herself upon every occasion. Then came the World War. She includes here a few interesting pages dealing with the young ladies, especially, who went from America to perform their parts heroically, but?to break many, many social customs. Mary lived to see the signing of the Armistice when in the emotional upheaval of that day all men became suddenly equal and social customs and empty form for a while, at least, were forgotten. "Then I came home and went to Newport." In her final chapter, Mary, after relating a beautiful story of barriers swept away in England, tells of their erection by the newly rich in America?at Newport. There she saw people aping the ways of European aristocrats. "The Far West still keeps the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE American inheritance of open-hearted hospitality and its provincialism. The West inherited some of the finest virtues of our country, and if it is not bitten by Back Bay, Philadelphia, Virginia, or Charleston, it will grow up into its mother's finest child," Mary concludes. "President Harding has said that he hopes niore and more people will learn to pray in a closet alone with God. There are many people like that in our Middle West. "I say this because I hope it will help other American women who love their country to fight for honesty and purpose in our national life, and for tolerance and respect for the simple things in our private lives." That concludes the picture of this American woman as she has given it to us in this brief book. Has she succeeded well in presenting herself to her readers? Has she had a worthwhile message and has she stated it adequately in this little book? Questions and Problems for Study 1. What sort of person is Mary as you get her picture from this book? Was the fault of not being able to get along better all with her? Where do you place some of the blame; where did she? 2. In what way is custom?social usage?a matter of geography? Ilustrate by means of examples from your own lives. In what way did the discovery that custom is geographical help Mary to adjust? 3. Discuss?''Fear is the destroyer of peace." Relate the discussion, of course, to the book and to social usage. 4. In what way did the World War and the Armistice affect the social customs of all nations? Relate instances if you can. LESSON DEPARTMENT 5. What was so disconcerting to Mary about going to Newport upon her return from Europe? 6. Evaluate this book as autobi- 747 ography. What are its shortcomings? In what particulars is it strong? Would you grade it as good literature? Why? Social Service Lesson 5 Tue PROMOTION OF PEACE Text: Civic Sociology, by Edward A. Ross, Chapter 25. THE great mass of public opinion is overwhelmingly for peace? the prevalence of war and threats of war throughout the world notwithstanding. But one cannot have peace without consciously striving for it. It begins in the home. To live at peace within the family and with one's neighbors is the nearest approach to world peace. Such an ideal can be made to induce harmony among larger social and_ political units by inculcating a peaceful attitude to the extent that even war is impossible. The citizen's individual responsibility to maintain peace in his private relations is of no less importance than that of national leaders to strive for world peace. While the scope of the problem is as wide as the world itself it is also no broader than the fireside and one's immediate relations. There is a definite relationship between the condition of peace at home and the movement for international peace which seeks to replace the spirit of conflict throughout the world with organized discussion and arbitration as a means of settling misunderstandings and difficulties. But whether the problem be viewed in the largeness of its international aspect, or from an individual and local point of view, the same basic principles underly the situation. Only by understanding these underlying concepts which are at the root of difficulties and by striving to eradicate them can peace be achieved. This lesson will aim to promote the cause of peace in the following ways: First, by pointing out the basic causes for conflict between individuals, and by showing the relationship of such conflict to larger disputes. Second, through the encouragement of a personal attitude which is sympathetic toward peace movements. To promote peace we should first understand some of the important causes for conflict. They are lack of consideration for others, inhuman attitudes, pride in possession, greed and avarice, and the desire for wealth and power. Such causes underly small conflicts and extend to large. In their most hideous aspect they take the form of war. Though infinitely more complex when disptte shows itself outside the home, all forms of conflict may be settled by the same remedy?a peaceful attitude and a willingness to resort to arbitration. The problem of peace, as in all human relations, is one of adjustment to opposing points of view and interests in clash. 748 But conflict is world-wide. It commences in the home and spreads through an ever-widening circle. On the same assumption peace must also originate in the home. Its simplest form is domestic and regional; its highest is international. It can become so all-inclusive as to enjoin the whole world?but not without conscious education for adjustment. For instance, though national policies determine war, in a democracy national policies are determined by individuals. If the ideal of peace is born within the home and multiplies until that ideal exists within the majority of homes, resistance to war eventually can become a more powerful factor in the national fabric than either the desire or seeming necessity for war. And why should it not be? Though rulers make war, its price is paid by the masses. Though some classes profit from speculation, and some from the manufacture of munitions, whose home does not suffer when a nation takes up arms? Though some nations come out the victor in conflict, does not that nation's loss override its victory in bloodshed, suffering, and privation, both economically and culturally? Although there have been times when it has seemed more honorable for a country to enter a war than to remain neutral, if all nations could incorporate peace into their national ideologies there would be no war, and no nation would be called upon for even that kind of military participation. The Prophet Isaiah foretold a day when universal peace should reign upon the earth preparatory to the second coming of Christ, the Prince of Peace, who, it is believed, will some day rule personally upon the earth. Isaiah said: "And he shall judge among nations, and shall rebuke RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning-hooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation. Neither shall they learn war any more." (Isaiah 2:4) The Scriptures are also witness to the fact that other prophets have looked into the future to see the time when humanity will live together in harmony. Although world affairs at the present time seem dark and threatening, the beginning efforts toward a peaceful solution of international diffculties have not been without success. There have been many channels in which man has turned his energy in the right direction. Since the World War diplomatic organs have been created to make it possible for nations to settle their quarrels. Repeated attempts toward the reduction of armaments have been made in order to lessen one of the greatest causes of war?suspicion between nations. In 1918 the League of Nations was established. While subject to much criticism and perhaps imperfect in many ways, the actual establishment of the League was in itself a tremendous step toward world peace. During its history of approximately fifteen years it has successfully adjusted many quarrels between nations whose differences of opinion were very bitter.. If it never did anything more than to provide a place where representatives of all nations could gather and become better acquainted to talk over common problems it still would be worth while. The fact that several important nations did not officially join the body in no way invalidates the principles capable of fostering world peace. Subsequent to the forming of the League of Nations some seven distinct attempts have been made to LESSON DEPARTMENT unite the principal nations under agreements which would facilitate the adjusting of misunderstandings, suspicions, and difficulties. No single effort has been entirely successful, yet some good has resulted from each, although failure has attended many of the major objectives. Treaties have been formed which solemnly bind the signatories to adjust their difficulties without war. Although violation of some of these treaties will undoubtedly occur from time to time, if knowledge of them is taught at home and their importance to peace is stressed, the ultimate effect of such an attitude is bound eventually to bear its influence upon society. Progress in this direction is already noticeable. Although anger and avarice may still overcome the desire for peace and nations are still at war, time was when practically all difficulties caused them to take up arms against each other. These attempted solutions of large troubles are the result of individual ideals which have been intelligently pooled to direct world thought. Some one's fireside was the birthplace of one great thought in this direction,. And some one's else of another. There are homes which give rise to the vision of peace. When they become the majority, and rulers become subservient to majorities peace will exist. It is a matter of adjustting to changing ideals and a world in flux. The necessity to conform to new conditions is always present. Since peace from any aspect cannot come about without consideration, settlement, or arbitration, an open mind to change is ever needful. The present widespread conflicts between workers and employers are examples which call for adjustments to economic changes. Such conflicts 749 often result in strikes which are devastating not only to the members of both sides of the controversies, but to the nation as a whole, and even to foreign countries. For example, when the longshoremen on the Pacific Coast refused to work, cargoes were returned to the source of supply, domestic and foreign. It seems a far cry from an Oriental field worker who assists in the raising of bulbs to a laborer in the greenhouse half way around the world. But the babies of each have known want when longshoremen strike and refuse to do their part in the chain of connecting circumstances. The pocketbooks of the interested owners in both hemispheres become thinner; taxes may go unpaid, and communities consequently suffer. The ramifications of dispute reach far beyond the sight and sound of their origin. The promotion of mutual interest between different nationalities within a country is another matter of adjustment. Unlike races must achieve likeness in a common patriotic ideal which embraces the general welfare. Such need calls for large adjustment. But it should also be understood that patriotism does not mean the condemnation of other peoples and nationalities whose ideas may be at variance with a country's own. Nor should the idea of racial superiority continue to exist. Each race must be allowed the right to work out its own destiny. These problems do indeed require orientation of individual thought and arbitration for the settlement of both national and international problems. Within a nation changes in industry, government, and education are constantly arising. But the rate at which such institutions develop varies greatly. Hence there is gen- 750 erally considerable lag between the latest developments and a large body of people. Such lag calls for adjustment in order to prevent conflict. In regard to all of these conditions, the problem of peace is definitely interwoven. They constitute questions which can be settled either peacefully or explosively. Much depends upon the attitude which has been encouraged at home and in early life. What can we as individuals do to help bring about an attitude of adjustment which would lead to peace? Live to uphold the ideal of world peace. Let spirituality prevail in the home. Foster those concepts which are opposed to war and conflict. Cultivate those where order and the common welfare are considered. Educate children to seek values outside the chaotic, pleasuremad impulses of the day that the flame of brotherly love which should burn in everyone's heart may not be obscured. Religion teaches the brotherhood of man. There are peace organizations throughout the world which try to live up to that ideal. It is significant to note that the National Woman's Relief Society has played a prominent part in the activities of such organizations. The Latterday Saint Church teaches not only the brotherhood of man, but the Fatherhood of God through the family relationship and its consequent responsibilities. Its auxiliary organizations supply constructive activities that lead to positive influences in the lives of its members. Wholesome influences of this kind should do much to bring about a greater state RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of happiness among all classes. A cheerful aspect toward life makes adjustment to difficulties easier. Discontent in regard to one's lot in life lessens with education for peace. Although obstacles develop fortitude and progress is often founded on difficulties, conflict which results in hatred and destructive tendencies is negative to the welfare of man. Wholesome ideals which lead to peace cannot fail to make adjustment easier. Why should we as a people who have dreamed our dreams and have made infinite progress in many ways not envision a condition of world peace? We who believe in a cycle of life which reaches from life unseen to life unseen can surely believe in the effectiveness of an ideal which is concerned with earthly welfare. It cannot be beyond human hope. In our philosophy each individual life is precious. Let us strive to create conditions of peace that all life may be lived to advantage along the road of positive accomplishment. With the help of the Lord such an ideal, emanating from the soul of man, must be possible of fulfillment. Activities 1. Each community has its own peculiar problems which are a source of friction to many of its members. Explain how these difficulties may be settled satisfactorily to all. 2. The border line between the United States and Canada has never been fortified. Discuss the effect of the lack of fortifications upon the peaceful relations of the two countries. The LESSON DEPARTMENT 751 Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH Lesson 5 MARGARET STALLE BARKER Born in Italy "THE subject of this sketch was born October 20, 1850, at Prarustin, a village in one of the valleys of the Piedmont, northern Italy. Her parents, Jean Pierre and Marie Gaudin Stalle, were of French descent and belonged to a Protestant group, known as Vandois or Waldensees. This group had suffered much severe persecution during several generations in spite of which it still clung to the faith of the fathers. It was a group therefore that was characterized by strong religious convictions, for which many thousands of them had fought and died during previous generations. The story of their persecutions is one of the saddest of all the sad, inhuman persecutions that blacken the pages of civilization in Europe during the Reformation. The Stalles were small farmers who were able to live only by dint of hard work and the strictest economy. Of course, they lived simply as did most of their neighbors. Among these people there went a few missionaries of the Church who first began their labors in 1850, under the direction of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, who became the fifth President of the Church in 1898. The missionaries met with great success. Thirty families from this smali group joined the Church. They were opposed and persecuted. Their persecutors, descendants of cruelly persecuted people, had not learned how to be tolerant to other religions. But among the few converts of the elders were Pierre Stalle and family, baptized about 1853. In November, 1855, responding to an invitation by Mission President Franklin D, Richards to emigrate to Zion, the family soon started for Liverpool, leaving unsold their little home and farm. On December 12, the Stalle family, father, mother and four children, the youngest of whom was Margaret, 5 years old, sailed from Liverpool with nearly 500 other Saints, 437 of whom were from Denmark, Norway and Sweden, 42 from Great Britain, besides a few others from Piedmont. The passage across the Atlantic to New York required 66 days, in decided contrast to the 414 to 8 days required in these times. The difference in ship accommodations between then and now is probably as great as the difference in time. The accommodations given to emigrants in those days were extremely meagre. Reaching New York the family went to St. Louis by train, then made its way to Florence, Nebraska, where in June, 1856, it joined the first hand-cart companies bound for Salt Lake City. Before this the usual method of emigrant crossing of the plains was by oxteams. This way was slow. Further, the strong and able-bodied folk walked beside their slow-moving wagons. Hence the idea of hand-cart companies was soon suggested. Furthermore, handcarts were much cheaper than wagons and oxen. Cheapness would greatly aid the poor emigrants. The first hand-cart companies ever to cross the plains to Salt Lake City left Iowa City June 9, 1856. The distance was 1,300 miles. There 752 were no real roads?only trails, and these were usually rough. The plains were dry and hot. In many places water and fuel were scarce. Even food was never any too plentiful, often short. The carts had to be lightly loaded, for they were to be pulled and pushed by the foot-sore pedestrians; all who were able toiled at the carts. Is it any wonder that many were overtaxed and died on the way, due to exposure, lack of enough suitable food and other hardships? Of course, the emigrants could carry in their carts no furniture or heavy belongings, only a scanty supply of clothes, food and bedding. If they had more than these, they were asked to leave them behind. Such clothing as the Stalle family had not left at Florence had to be worn constantly in all kinds of weather and to sleep in at night and was of little value on reaching Salt Lake City. At times they found water scarce and had to dip it out of buffalo tracks after a rain storm. At other times unusually long marches were made to reach wood and water. When there was no expectation of finding wood, a sack was hung on the back of the handcart to carry dry buffalo chips, picked up on the way. You ask, "How could they think of starting off on their long, difficult trek so poorly equipped?" It was their undaunted faith in a living God that made them confident that all would be well. In this connection read the immortal hymn "Come, Come Ye Saints," written especially for the emigrants crossing the plains. Notice the fourth verse: "And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well!" No, they were not afraid of hardships, not even death itself. Liberty and freedom to worship God in peace were worth any sacrifice, even RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE life itself. But mortal life is but an instant. A happy, everlasting life beyond the grave and a glorious resurrection were the important things. Soon after beginning the trek Margaret's father became ill and later died on the way. Her mother was still weak from the long sickness suffered on the trip across the Atlantic. So the family hand-cart had to be pushed by her sister, 19 years old, and her sixteen-year-old brother, Margaret herself being only 5; while old enough to walk all the way was not strong enough to toil at the cart. The body of her father was wrapped in a sheet and placed in a wayside grave between two layers of sagebrush and covered with earth. On the day of his death, he told his family that he could not go on but that they would reach the Valley (Salt Lake) in safety and would never want for bread. This was a remarkable prophecy. A penniless widow and four children, none of whom at the time could speak English, were on the way to a povertystricken country. Yet the dying father told them they should never suffer for the need of bread. And they never did. The companies arrived in Salt Lake City, September 26, 1856, having been more than three months on their weary trek. The problem for the widow and her four children was at the moment very difficult, aggravated by the language handicap. But the courageous woman was undaunted. The older girls found homes in which to work, and the mother, son and Margaret went to Ogden to live near other friends. There the mother and her son made a dug-out, one room in the side of a hill, to live in. Years after, Margaret wrote: "The roof of the dug-out was made LESSON DEPARTMENT of willows, covered with bulrushes and then dirt. The dirt floor was covered every Saturday with fresh straw when we could get it. We had no furniture, but for a bed and a seat forked sticks were put in the wall and in the dirt floor, and rushes were woven in between and covered with straw. In place of glass for a window, a piece of cloth was used. For bread the family gleaned in the fields and gathered enough wheat for their winter's supply. Mother knew how to spin and weave in the old country. I gathered sun-flowers for candles and burned them one at a time, holding them up in my hand so mother could see to spin at night. She worked out during the day as much as she could." The family lived in the one-room dug-out for about 18 months, and then in the early Summer of 1858 joined in the general move of the Saints "to the South," due to the coming of Johnston's Army. Returning to Ogden later in the year after the troubles due to President Buchanan's blunder had been adjusted, the family continued to live there a year or two, maintaining itself the best it could. Then the mother moved to Logan taking her son and Margaret with her. But later the girl returned to Ogden and lived with her married sister, Mary. Four years later, November, 1867, she married Henry Barker. He was an industrious, thrifty farmer. Their new home was in North Ogden, a suburb of Ogden. The house to which Brother Barker took his bride was a oneroom log hut with a dirt roof. A year later he built a better house with a shingled roof. Next he built a two-story brick house which was the home of the Barker family until after the father's death in 1918, and that of their married daughter Ann 753 in 1920. Sister Barker then moved to the home of her daughter Lily in Ogden, where she still lives, February, 1937, Sister Barker is the mother of ten children?6 boys and 4 girls, 6 now living. Three (2 boys and a girl) died when children, and the fourth died after being married. The four grown sons all filled missions, their fields being Australia, England, Switzerland and the United States. For several months three sons were on their missions at the same time, the family maintaining them with difficulty. Five grandsons have also been missionaries. "Part of Henry Barker's success was due to his wife. She took the best care of the family. Food was wholesome and abundant and clothing suited to the season and kept in good repair was provided. At the same time nothing was wasted, and everything used to best advantage. M worked hard and long every av." Still, she gave her children a desire to learn which in herself she had never been able to satisfy, never having had the opportunity of going to school. But before her first child was born, she decided that her children should have an education. She learned to read and write so she could teach them to do the same. This she did at home before they were old enough to go out to school. She was influential in keeping them at school as long as they cared to go. Two of her sons are prominent educators, one of them having spent years in study in Europe and is an able scholar, well known on two continents. Sister Barker is a small woman, weighing only about 100 pounds. But she has always been wiry, energetic, quick to make decisions, and a good disciplinarian. However, she never 754 scolded or whipped her children. To her such treatment is barbaric. She would watch for the opportune time and correct them in love and kindness. She could not tolerate loafing, fault-finding, and gossiping. She provided her children with books to read during leisure hours and encouraged them to bring their friends home for play. "Study, work, play ?but no loafing," was one of her sayings. The Barkers had an orchard. When fruit' was scarce and prices high, she never refused the children and their playmates all the fruit they could eat. However, she would say, "Eat all you want, but do not waste." All through her life she has had the fine idea of thrift which she inherited from her European home. Soon after marriage her husband bought 12 matches for one dollar. She made these last more than a year. Matches being so scarce and expensive most people started their fires with flint and tinder. She would go in the orchard, even after the family was well-to-do, and gather fruit which had fallen to the ground, and dry it. But perhaps on that very day she had sent a son hundreds of dollars for a trip thought to be necessary for his education. How thrifty?how self-sacrificing! For thirty years the Barkers gave substantial sums to missionaries leaving the Ward to help them to their fields of labor. To Sister Barker the Gospel ''meant everything" and no sacrifice for it was too great. "What is worth doing at all is worth doing well" was another favorite saying of hers. She applied this to her religion. Further- _ more, "What is done should be done promptly," she taught. Though quick to make decisions, Sister Barker is a woman of good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE judgment. When a decision was made, it meant action at once. With her "'to believe was to do." Entirely unselfish she has always lived and worked for others?her family, friends and all in need. Therein she has always found her happiness. She made a happy home for which she will always be remembered. She is greatly loved. It could hardly be otherwise. She always enforced the rule "no speaking ill of anyone. If you can't say something good of a person, don't say anything. If you want to say anything unpleasant about a person, say it to his face." Though in her 88th year (November, 1937) Sister Barker is still active in the Relief Society, serving as an officer in her Ward. Questions for Discussion 1. What do you know about the Waldensees, the religious people from whom Sister Barker descended? 2. What were some of their characteristics? 3. What kind of home did Margaret Stalle have in Piedmont? 4, What were some of the qualities of her mother? 5. Which of these qualities did Margaret exhibit? 6. Name some of the hardships the Stalle family endured in emigrating to Utah. 7. With what spirit did they suffer these things? 8. How and where did Margaret spend her girlhood days in Utah? 9. Recite some of her characteristic sayings. 10. Tell why you think she was a good mother. 11. Tell why you think she is a noble woman. LESSON DEPARTMENT 755 Child Guidance Lesson 5 ADOLESCENCE DOLESCENCE is usually thought of as the period of the "teens." More strictly speaking, it constitutes that part of a person's life during which he changes from childhood to adulthood. In_ this sense, there is no age limitation to the period of adolescence, and whether a person is no longer an adolescent depends upon whether he has become fully grown up psychologically, that is, whether he has acquired the independence to "go alone" as an adult. But how to determine when a person is fully grown up is not easy. Physically we reach maturity at about eighteen years of age. Sexually we become mature at about the same time, although sexual awareness usually appears at about thirteen or fourteen. Our mental growth ceases at between fourteen and twenty years, that is, our inborn ability to learn ceases to increase at about this time, although learning itself goes on throughout life. Emotionally, however, most children are not completely mature by the end of their teens. They still rely considerably upon childish means of getting their way in the home. Emotional explosions are still frequent occurrences. Economically, in modern society, few of our young people are self-sustaining by the time they are twenty. If a college education is in the family program, the boys are seldom established on a job, nor are the girls settled in marriage, until they are twentyfive. For professional young men, marriage is generally postponed until thirty, and economic independence is delayed accordingly. In pioneer days, when life was primarily agricultural, young people reached complete maturity earlier than they do in our age of commercialism and higher education. Formerly part of the herds or lands could be set aside when the children were biologically or physically prepared for marriage, but today economic "weaning" is not so simple, and parents can seldom be sure that the children will not "come back on them" for further economic support even after they have left the home nest. Modern social and economic conditions place certain restrictions upon the maturing child, some of which limitations cause certain deepseated conflicts in adolescence. With the boy or girl in the teens, some new and urgent needs appear which give rise to a sense of confusion and uncertainty for a few years. Some of the new needs felt are: (1) need for freedom from supervision of parents in such matters as bed time, friends selected, fashions of dress, and use of automobiles, as well as various habits of conduct; (2) need for association with the opposite sex; (3) need for self-support economically, including finding a vocation and job; (4) need for a satisfying point of view. On life, or need for a religion or philosophy of life, that will give meaning to the many new concepts of the world the adolescent's maturing intellect makes possible. A need for freedom from supervision in details of conduct arises partly from the failure of parents to respect the growing intellect of the child, and from the parents' unwill- 756 ingness to relinquish their dominating position in the parent-child relationship. The mother often wants the child to remain a child to satisfy her emotional need for someone to be dependent upon her. On the other hand, many parents have a legitimate concern over the conduct of the adolescent when the parents realize that morally the youth may lack good judgment and control of himself. A wholesome companionship between the parents and the child is of great importance in guiding the adolescent through the change from his following their moral judgments and following his own. That adolescents become keenly interested in the opposite sex is borne out by an intimate study of the love affairs of one hundred married men and one hundred married women, a study made by G. V. Hamilton, a psychiatrist. He found that the average number of attachments for persons of the opposite sex was greater for girls between fifteen and twenty years of age than at any other period of life, and for boys the greatest number of attachments was at an age near twenty. There was found a rapid increase in the number of attachments at about thirteen years for both sexes. Obviously, mating cannot take place as early as attraction is felt, because, if for no other reason, people of this age are seldom able to support children financially as well as their parents expect. Economically adolescents are not prepared for marriage as early as they are emotionally prepared. This circumstance is one of our most difficult social problems today, a problem for which we probably have not found a thoroughly satisfactory solution. Sublimation, or substitution, in the form of creative activities in high RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE school and college is a partial solution. This program permits association between the boys and girls, provides a great deal of physical activity in the way of sports and social functions, and attempts to build up wholesome moral ideals for the safeguarding of chastity. For Latter-day Saints, the mission often serves as an excellent solution to this problem, at least for a time. It takes the young person into a field of service where lie can lose himself in the task of growing into an adult. Adolescents, characteristically, according to good evidence, take little interest in the welfare of mankind. Careful studies of changes of interests with age show that one of the most distinguishing characteristics of adults, as contrasted with youths, is their interest in the welfare of others. Missionary experience probably promotes this phase of maturity better than almost anything the youth can do. The postponement of marriage is an outcome in part of modern conditions which call for specialization of labor and higher degrees of training than formerly. Unemployment of youth is one of the most critical problems facing the world today. The uncertainty facing the youth who has not found his first job, or who may not have even a definite idea of what he would like to do, adds greatly to the emotional turmoil experienced by adolescents so generally today. Better vocational guidance and placement facilities would remedy this situation considerably. Parents sometimes add to the difficulty of the youth in finding his way vocationally by their insisting upon the boy or girl fulfilling ambitions which 'were frustrated in their own lives. Thus one boy was driven to failure because his father insisted that he would become a great lawyer. LESSON: DEPARTMENT After much disappointment, the lad was studied by a psychologist and was found to be only bright enough to do well at clerical work. Parents should rather see their children succeed at simpler or mor? humble occupations than to fail in professions for which they do not have the ability, aptitude, or interests. Uncertainty in the mind of the adolescent as to the meaning of things in his world often complicates his problems of adjustment. Questions as to his origin and destiny are likely to arise during these years, as are many others such as the nature of God, the basis of right and wrong, and the purpose of life. Those who are not so fortunate as to go on missions still have the Church teachings to answer the great queries about life and destiny and to give them a guiding philosophy that lends purpose and pattern to existence. We have spoken of the four main needs the adolescent has and what can be done to satisfy them. In some cases, suitable satisfactions are not found for these needs, and the individual fails in one of the following ways: (1) he becomes delinquent, falls out of school, begins to steal, commits sex offenses and drifts to the juvenile courts or industrial schools; (2) he may withdraw from the real world, become too imaginative, lose all interest in things outside his own thoughts, become violently disturbed in his emotional life, or may even go insane; (3) he may give up the fight entirely and commit suicide because he cannot "find himself"; or (4) he may acquire drunkenness or drug addiction as an escape from the unpleasantness of reality. Usually the members of the human family who fall victims to these tragedies, are the weak or unstable in mind who lack 757 the mental strength to fight through their difficulties. Psychological weaning is an expression used by Hollingworth to designate the time in one's life when he finally becomes able to think maturely and independently about his problems, to make his own way vocationally and economically, to transfer a certain degree of affection from his family to his prospective mate, to throw off other kinds of emotional dependence on his family, and to use "grown up" (as contrasted with childish ways) of satisfying his needs. In other words, psychological maturity means ability to "go alone" financially, emotionally, and intellectually. Many men find it easy to fall back on their parents for a little financial aid; adult women sometimes call on their mothers for guidance (or the mothers call on them to offer guidance) in solving emotional difficulties in their married life. These habits are hang-overs from adolescence. Ability to keep silence at proper times is a mark of emotional maturity; prattling is a mark of childishness. Restraint from expressing emotion at certain critical times is also a mark of emotional maturity. Courage to go to distant places alone, as missionaries do, is a sign of maturity. When a person can set up his own goals of achievement and intelligently pursue them on his own initiative and in spite of obstacles, he is grown up. Parents should strive to see the needs the adolescent has and to respect them as though they were their own. Emotional unrest of adolescence comes from uncertainty in their conception of themselves. This confusion often makes them obstinate or difficult to approach. The adolescent is uncertain as to whether he is still a child or now a man. His associates are also uncertain arid 758 frequently hesitate as to whether to say "kid," "lad," "fellow," or "Mr." His body is awkward because of rapid growth and lack of proportion, all of which adds to his embarrassment and uncertainty of status. Habits in parents andchildren should be freely revised as new needs arise throughout the growth of the child from infancy. The parent who fully sees the child's point of view should have no difficulty in permitting this revision of habits. Part of her emotional growth itself is to unobtrusively step aside and see her son or daughter go into the arms of another never to fully return as her child. Both parents should take care not to interfere with the striving for independence which is so normal in adolescence, for growth towards maturity comes only through one's own striving. Good relations between parent and child, however, still permit a certain kind of helpful guidance through this trying period. If this relationship has been lost, well-meant attempts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at guidance by parents generally drive young people to make mistakes they would not otherwise make. Unwise interference with the developing independence of adolescents is often the leading cause for their leaving home and breaking from the ideals the parents cherished most. Problems for Discussion 1. What do we mean by psychological weaning? Distinguish it from physical maturity. 2. Describe some of the problems that arise because of the fact that physiological and economic maturity do not occur at the same time. What solutions to these problems would you propose? 3. What is the parents' problem in the psychological weaning of the boy or girl? 4. Show how constant habit and attitude revision from infancy to maturity is necessary on the part of both parent and child in order for successful psychological weaning. What shall I give? Everyone is seeking to find gifts that beautiful. Aio "Mormon Handicraft" are different?useful as well as & o has a = wide variety of hand-made articles which make very acceptable gifts.