[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | February | Issue: 15 | Title: ELLEN WALTERS WINDER. | Author: Unknown]

ELLEN WALTERS WINDER.

	MRS. WINDER wife of Bishop John R. Winder
who died suddenly of heart failure at her home
in this City November 7th, at 4:30 p.m. 1892, was
born in Siverton, Devonshire, England, April 8th,
1822—and was married to John R. Winder in
London, Nov. 24th, 1845. Having embraced the
Everlasting Gospel they emigrated to America in
1853; at that time Mrs. Winder had twin baby
girls not three months old,and those were not the
days of swift transit either by sea, or by land.
This one fact demonstrates the faith and courage
Sister Winder possessed, and as she advanced in
years that same sublime faith grew stronger and
more steadfast still, as year after year witnessed
the fulfillment of those things for which she had
been looking forward.  She identified herself with
the Relief Society of the 14th ward in this City
where she resided, when it was organized, and
was an active worker in all the benevolent labors,
never weary in well-doing.  After her removal to
the 12th, Ward a few years since, she was chosen
secretary of that Relief Society and continued in
office to the time of her decease; and when death
came, she was engaged in cheerful conversation
upon matters pertaining to the duties of her of-
fice with Mrs. Julia Druce the President of the
Society.
	Sister Winder had been in delicate health for
some time, but was somewhat better and the
blow fell heavily indeed upon the family; she was
a model wife, mother and househeeper; her home
the place where she displayed those charming
attributes of character, that made it a paradise on
earth to those with whom she was thus associated;
her love of flowers constituted one of her chief
pleasures, and her plants were the admiration of
all who passed the house and the display in her
windows were a great attraction.
	Sister Winder was the mother of ten children,
five of whom are now living; she leaves also
twenty grand-children, who all loved her as
tenderly as her own. She was tender-hearted,
gentle, conscientious and forgiving, a woman of
many virtues and much goodness of heart, wo-


manly in every respect, yet brave and strong when
occasion called for action.
	“No single virtue we could most commend,
	Whether the wife, the mother, or the friend;
	For she was each in that supreme degree,
	That, as no one prevailed, so all was she.”
			MEMORI AL.
	ACCORDING to agreement at the last meeting o
the Twelfth Ward Relief Society, Dec. 1st, 1892,
the following resolutions of respect were made,
and at the succeeding meeting were unaninously
adopted.
	Whereas in view of the loss we have sustained
by the decease of our beloved Sister and Secre-
tary Ellen Walters Winder, and of the still heavier
loss sustained by those who were nearest and
dearest to her; therefore, be it—
	Resolved that it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed that in sorrowing over
her removal from our midst we mourn for one
who was always faithful and prompt in discharg-
ing her duties, even when laboring under heavy
physical disabilities; and, was in every way
worthy of our respect and love.
	Resolved, that we tenderly condole with the
family of our beloved sister in their hour of trial
and affliction, and share with them the hope of a
reunion in that better world to which we are all
hastening, and trust that God, “Who doeth all
things well,” will bless and comfort them.
	Resolved that a copy of this heartfelt testi-
monial of our sympathy and sorrow, be forwarded
to the family of our departed sister, and also be
placed upon our record.
			JULIA DRUCE, President.
			L. R. MIDGLEY, Ist Counselor.
			ELIZA D. HOOPER, 2nd Counselor.
			E. G. LYON, Treasurer.
			HANNAH BROOKS, Secretary.


