[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | February | Issue: 15 | Title: THE REFORMATION. | Author: Unknown]

THE REFORMATION.

	LATER in his teachings, Luther with his
two edged sword, went out to strip the Pon-
tiff of his spoils, and was quite as earnest
against the Pope’s ecclesiastical authority in
Germany as against his temporal power in
Italy. “As a first step,” says he, “it be-
hooves us to expel from all the German
States,the Pope’s legates, and the pretended
benefits which they sell us at their weight
in gold; and which are mere impostures.
They take our money, and  for what?—for
legalizing ill-gotten gains,  for dissolving
the sacredness of oaths for teaching us to
break faith; for instructing us  in sin  and
leading us directly to hell.  Hear this,  Oh
Pope!   Not most holy, but most sinning!
May God from his throne on high, hurl thy
throne ere long to the bottomless pit.
	The Christian tribunal proceeded:  Hav-
ing summoned the Pope to his bar, he cited
before him all the corruptions which fol-
lowed in the train of the Papacy, and  be-
gan to sweep from the floor of the Church
the rubbish that encumbered it.
	He commenced with the Monks as fol-
lows: “Now then, I come to that slothful
crew  who  promise  much  but do little.
What I have to say to you is a  truth, both
sweet and bitter; it is that no more cloisters
must be built for mendicant friars,  God
knows we have enough already—and would
to heaven they were all leveled with  the
ground; vagabonding through the conntry
never has done, and never can do good.”
	The marriage of Ecclesiastics comes
next.  It was the first time that,  Luther
had spoken on that subject—“To what a
condition has the clergy fallen, and how
many Priests do we find burdened with wo-
men and children, and their bitter remorse,
while no one comes  to their aid.  It may
suit the Pope and the Bishop to  let things
go on as they list, but  for my part I will
deliver my conscience,  I will open my
mouth freely, let Pope, Bishop or whoever
will, take offence at it.
	We might for a moment glance at  the
effect of the New  Learning, as it was cal-
led, upon England.  King Henry’s quar-
rel with Rome, soon  snatched the Pro-
testants from the keener persecution which
troubled them after Wolsey’s fall.  The

[Column 2]
divorce, the renunciation of the Papacy,
the degradation of the Clergy, the suppres-
sion of the Monasteries.  The religious
changes fell like a series of heavy blows
upon the Priesthood of Rome.  From
persecutors they suddenly sank into men
trembling for their very lives.  At the
very onset of Cromwell’s changes, a party
of Suffolk boys, toughs in their very nature,
broke into the Church of Doverscourt tore
down a wonder working crucifix and burned
it in the field.  The suppression of the les-
ser Monasteries was the signal for a  new
outburst of ribald insult to the old religion.
The roughness, insolence, and extortion of
the  Protestant  commissioners  drove  the
whole monastic body to despair.  Some
sold their jewels and relics to provide for
the evil day they saw approaching.   Some
begged of their  own  will for dissolution.
It was worse when fresh ordinances ordered
the removal of objects of superstitious ven-
eration, embittered  by  the  insults with
which it was accompanied.   Revolt and
nnovation was everywhere rampant, when
Mary,  so called, Bloody Mary—appeared
upon the scene.  She now more energetic
than the Protestants in the establishment of
their cause, violently overturned their sys-
tem and avenged her mother against her
father, by restoring the Papal sway, and
making heresy the unpardonable sin.  Re-
volt was everywhere stamped out in blood,
and warning was wasted on the fierce bigot-
ry of the Queen.  We acknowledge all her
recorded actions but let it  be remembered
she was the child  of  a  basely repudiated
mother, Catharine of Aragon,  who as the
daughter  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella of
Spain, was a Catholic of Catholics.
	Mary had been declared illegitimate, she
was laboring under an incurable disease
affecting her mind as well as her body.
She was the wife of Phillip the II of Spain,
a  monster of iniquity.  She inherited her
bigotry from her mother and strengthened
it by her marriage, and she thought in per-
secuting heretics,  she  was  doing God’s
service.
 	After a sad and bloody rule of five years
she died without leaving a child.   There
was  but  one  voice as to her successor.
Delirious shouts of joy were heard through-
out the land, “God save Queen Elizabeth.’’
No more burnings at Smithfield or behead-
ings on Tower Green.  No more of Spanish
Phillip and his pernicious bigots! toleration,
freedom and light.  The people of England
were ready for the golden age and the gold-
en  age  had come.   Wonderful was the
change.  With Elizabeth began a reign the
like  of  which  the world had never seen.
A  great  and   brilliant  crisis in  English
history, in which the old Order passed away
and the new was inaugurated.


HALF a million dollars has been presented
to Hamburg, Germany, by Herrvon Don-
ner, a native of that city, to found a wo-
man’s hospital in honor of a woman physi-
cian, Dr. Michelsen, to whose skill he be-
lieves he is indebted for his wife’s recovery,
from a dangerous illness.


