[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: WELCOME MESSENGER. | Author: E. A. CRANE WATSON]

WELCOME MESSENGER.

	Today brings the EXPONENT, I wonder if
it receives as cordial a greeting by every sub-
scriber as I give it? On its arrival, no differ-
ence what my employment (now don't frown
upon me you model house wives) I stop long
enough to glance at the signatures of the cor-
respondents, to see if there are any names an-
nexed thereto of my girlhood associates, or of
those of my many dear friends and co-workers
from the country that was my ever fondly re-
membered home up to the time I assumed the
sacred duties of wife and mother; it only takes
a minute you know, and 'tis such a satisfac-


tion; then the very first time baby is tired or
fretful, how I enjoy rocking her to sleep while
reading the minutes and reports of the P. A.
and R. S. conferences, or an account of some
social gathering oft times showing to me the
names of those who are endeared to me by the
truest ties of friendship, and giving sometimes
quite an insight into their present situations,
and a knowledge that those friends continue
to possess an assurance of the divinity of our
faith, and are willing to lend their assistance
for its furtherance. Sometimes in perusing
these inspiring sketches my eye comes in con-
tact with names (I would like to pen each one)
of those, who have been compelled to leave the
beautful vales of Utah for climes more peace-
ful, if not otherwise congenial, some of whom
are in different parts of Arizona, Colorado, and
way off in Mexico. Pleasing memories they
revive, aye, and sad ones too, but it all serves
to make me feel nearer those dear never to be
forgotten ones, for this with other things the
EXPONENT is always thrice welcome to me, I,
—like many others who are “floating on life's
ocean" have drifted away, away from all child-
hood’s associations.
	This weeks paper also brings "An Answer"
to my "Woman's Calling," in reading it I can-
not help thinking that Sister Mary Anderson
must have misunderstood me, or I do not
thoroughly understand the idea she wishes to
convey, judging from the tone of her article
we exactly coincide with each other’s views
and could we converse orally I'm positive we
would agree admirably with no sign of contra-
diction.	
	Last night Brother F. M. Lyman held forth
in our meeting house, his noble, cheerful
countenance as he arose in the pulpit brought
forth one general look of gratification from the
well filled house, he earnestly implored all to
arouse from the seeming lethargy that had
fallen upon the Latter-day Saints, have our
lamps filled and burning as the signs of the
times were indicative of the coming of the
Bridegroom. May we benefit ourselves by the
timely warning is the hearty desire of,
				E. A. CRANE WATSON.
	Parowan, Utah.


[Column 1]
