[Vol18 | June 1931 | Sequence: 07c | Category: Article | Title: A Call Answered—A Life Changed]

A Call Answered?A Life Changed
With the passing of Elder Orson F. Whitney we are reminded of the following extract taken from his volume, "Through Memory's Halls."
I had made up my mind to embrace the dramatic profession, and as the Salt Lake Theatre was not running regularly, I decided to go to New York, that Mecca of theatrical aspirants, and there begin my career. The winter past, I severed my relations with Bingham Canyon and came home, resolved upon seizing the first opportunity to carry out my ambitious design. My parents were much opposed to it, but I was determined to do something, to be somebody, and the drama seemed the only opening for me at that time.
"In the intervals of odd jobs I kept up my practice of elocution, mastered Bacon's 'Manual of Gesture,' and in every way possible strove to fit myself for the stage. The time and effort were not wasted. What was done in that direction helped to prepare me for my subsequent and real career. I was all the more capable as a preacher, for having had some experience as an actor. * * *
"Meanwhile, my mother, finding that she could not dissuade me from my purpose, said resignedly: 'Well, Orson, since you are determined to go, I shall not oppose you; and if
I can sell a piece of land (she had inherited several lots from her father's estate) I'll give you two hundred dollars to take you to New York.'
"Overjoyed, I sought earnestly to bring about the realization of that promise. But alas! There was no sale for the land. July?August?September?went by, spent in an ineffectual struggle against fate. Something was in the way?the Hand of Providence, though I did not see it then. More than once a sale seemed imminent; then some question would arise and the whole thing fall through, carrying with it my fondest hope. I believe now?what I suspected then?that my mother's prayers were largely responsible for the situation and what grew out of it.
"October came. The General Conference of the Church convened, and I was called on a mission to the United States. There was no previous notice?such was not the custom in those days. It fell like a bolt from the blue. And mark what followed! No sooner had I signified my willingness to accept the call, than my mother sold her land without any difficulty, and gave me two hundred dollars to take me?not to the City of New York to begin a dramatic career, but to the State of Pennsylvania, my first field of labor as a missionary. This was the turning point in my life, the virtual beginning of my career.
"Poorly prepared was I, in a spiritual way, for the work that lay before me. Beyond a perfunctory and irregular attendance at Sabbath
schools and other sacred gatherings, I had paid little attention to religion, and in practical Church work was entirely without experience. I think it was pride more than piety that induced me to go upon that mission. I felt that it would be a disgrace not to go, and would sadden the hearts of those who loved me and whom I loved. Therefore I sacrificed my most cherished wish, laid my darling ambition on the altar, and took the will of the Lord, instead of my own will, for a guide.
"I have never done a wiser or better thing. If there is anything in my life that looks like success, it is because I decided as I did at that time, and because I have striven ever since to act upon the same principle.
"I know now that I had a testimony, a deep conviction of the Truth; but it was latent, undeveloped, like a gold mine in the depths of the earth. Something had to occur to bring it out. That something was my mission. It bored the tunnel, sunk the shaft, and brought the precious ore to the surface."?Through Memory's Halls, by Orson F. Whitney.
Seemingly little things often change the course of a life and determine the future destiny of an individual. How much richer, fuller and more useful was his life because he turned from the lure of the stage and answered the call to the mission field. Thus did he mount the first rung on the ladder that led to the high position, an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ.