Relief Society Conference Held April 2 and 3, 1931 HE Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held Annual Conference on Thursday and Friday, April 2 and 3, 1931, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge and presided over the General Sessions of the conference. The meetings were as follows: Stake Officers and General Board Members, held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, from 10 a. M. To 12 noon on Thursday. There were seven department meetings: Theological, Literary, Social Service Lesson, Visiting Teachers, Class 'Leaders, Social Service Case Work, Choristers and Organists, and the Secretaries' Department. The two general sessions were held in the Tabernacle on Friday, April 3. There was an Executive Officers' Banquet, held at the Hotel Utah on the evening of April 3, the Presidency and the General Board being hostesses. In addition to the presidents, the executive officers of the _various stakes were included. The attendance at the General Stake Officers' Meeting was as follows: There were 102 out of the 104 stakes of the Church represented, 10 of the missions in the OFFICERS' United States, in addition to the president of the European Mission, Sister Leah D. Widtsoe; and Mrs. Arthur Gaeth of the Czecho-slovakian Mission; also representatives from the Canadian and Mexican Missions. There were 22 'General Board members; 603 Stake and Mission Officers, including: Stake presidents, 80; Counselors, 123; Secretary-treasurers, 64; | Other Board Members 324; Mission presidents 12. Ushers furnished by the Salt Lake City stakes and some of the Salt Lake County stakes gave excellent service in handling the large number in attendance and in properly seating them in the various meetings. A very delightful feature of the conference was the music. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward directed the congregational singing. There were special musical numbers from Mrs. Pearl Kimball Davis, Miss Miriam Erickson, Mrs. Annette R. Dinwoodey; a very delightful string trio consisting of Miss Miriam Gilchrist, Miss Lucille Merrill and Miss Sina Brimhall, An unusual feature was the splendid music furnished for the general sessions of the conference under the direction of stake choristers, special mention is made of Grant and Liberty stakes. MEETING Morning Session, Thursday, April 2, 1931 PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON WISH I had words to express the gratitude we feel this morning in greeting you all here. Our prayers have been answered. Our hearts are full of gratitude to our Heavenly Father, and to you, our dear sisters, for the efforts which you have made to come to this Conference. 308 I have often heard that Conferences are the finest medium we have of holding interest in the Church. 'I believe this, and the joy we have in meeting again with our sisters whom we meet out in the stakes, wards and mission fields, is beyond expression. I wish you knew how we appreciate you, and all the service that you have rendered.  I believe that the record has been made in Relief Society in getting replies for anything that we wanted at the office. Just a short time ago the White House Conference Committee asked for some special information, which we did not have in the office. On Saturday the Secretary and her helpers sent out letters and asked that we have this information in at once. On Monday afternoon we had some of the replies, and on Tuesday they came in from far away places. I want to tell you how we appreciate this, because I know that you are all busy women. Usually in making an address we want to leave the most thrilling thing to the last, but I am so eager to tell you some good news, that I am going to tell you first. For years we have been wanting a handbook. Numberless appeals have come to us for something that would help women get started with the Relief Society work, and I am very happy to announce that we have now a perfectly wonderful handbook. The committee, Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, and Sister Annie Wells Cannon, have been working on it almost day and night, because we have been so eager to have it ready for this Conference. This handbook contains full information pertaining to the history of the Relief Society. It has a sketch of the seven presidents, and information that has been compiled from all of our records that we have had since
the beginning,—how to conduct and what to do in all activities. It seems to us it is going to be a most wonderful help, especially to the new officers, and we feel it will be a tower of strength to our officers who are in charge. We hope you will use it as officers of the army use their rules. No matter how long an officer is in the army it is one of his requirements that he read his rules every day. There are illustrations in it, a table of contents, and it is indexed and cross-indexed, so that you can easily find anything you wish. For many years we have been using gold and white for our Society colors, but a very exhaustive search fails to discover any official word that these were really made the Relief Society colors. We love the old traditions of our organization and we were loath to give up gold and white. I think there was just a bit of sentiment about it, thinking the gold represented the wheat, but wheat is not really gold—we call it the "golden grain" but when you take a piece of straw you find it is not really gold, but yellow. After much thought and discussion we decided to choose something distinctive, so now our official colors are gold and blue. I would like to know how many of you would like to have gold and blue instead of white and gold (vote unanimous). We have had a few reorganizations since last Conference. It makes us sad to think that there is need of reorganizations. We love these women so dearly; they do such beautiful work, and when we think of their leaving it seems impossible to find anybody who can take their places. That is one of the beautiful things of this Church, it does not matter how splendid a person is,
and how much we miss and love him, the Lord is always able to help us find someone else who can ably fill the place.
to the Work and Business Meetings. On the contrary, one of the stake presidents told me that in her stake, which is a stake of large wards—
Reorganizations Date Stake Released Appointed President Mar., 1931 Beaver Mrs. Susan J. Murdock Mrs. Kate Jensen Oct., 1930 Cache Mrs. Lizzie B. Owen Mrs. Lula Y. Smith Feb., 1931 Garfield Mrs. Irene N. Rowan Mrs. Ida H. Steed Nov., 1930 Oneida Mrs. Nellie P. Head Mrs. Anna R. Hawkes Nov., 1930 Taylor Mrs. Georgina O'Brien Mrs. Julia E. Ririe Dec., 1930 Union Mrs. Evelyn R. Lyman Mrs. Josephine Hanks Feb., 1931 Box Elder Mrs. Lula B. Call Mrs. Eleanor J. Richards Feb., 1931 Franklin Mrs. Veroka G. Nash Mrs. Nellie K. Dredge Mar., 1931 Malad Mrs. Vera D. Sederhold Mrs. Bertha P. Larson
Some of our people have said, "Let us go back to the old method of having our teachers go to Union Meeting, and not have their special meetings in the wards." I would like to ask as a personal favor, that you stake officers make this a matter of prayer. The General Board has discussed this matter, and prayed and we cannot see how it would strengthen our work to have the Relief Society visiting teachers go back to Union Meeting, and not have the specific instructions which they get in their wards. In stakes and wards where this has been tried out persistently it has worked beautifully. One stake president told me just the other day that it would be a calamity to go back to the old method, the teachers are doing so much better and the work is going along much more harmoniously. We do earnestly beg of you that you will try just a little longer, and make some provision where this teachers' training meeting can be held in a regular meeting. This need not be very long, but make it just the very finest meeting of which you are capable. Have the class leader who goes to the stake union meeting come back so full of help for the visiting teachers that they cannot get along without her. Some believe that the teachers will not come out there is an attendance in one ward of 104, and in another of 80. She asked her stake to keep tab of the women who left during the Work and Business Meeting, and only two women in that whole stake, with such a large enrollment, leave the Work and Business Meeting before 3:30. She feels that there must be something lacking that even two women leave. In some of the wards the women are not interested, they are tired when they go to meeting and to go there to sew might not be so interesting. In some of the stakes they will have in connection with this meeting a class in something. We have in one stake a class in child care. You can go in and sew on quilts (you know everyone cannot sew on quilts, but everyone who chooses can do so) then they can make rugs, lamp shades, tied and dyed work; there is a department for young mothers, and in one of these wards there are 17 new young mothers who have come in and joined the organization just for this class in child training. Now if they have someone there capable of giving help to mothers on how to make little things out of spools that the child can make, or how to tell stories that the mothers can tell to their children when they go home, or give a little talk on the guidance of the
child; what to do with a child who sucks its thumb, or a child that tells fibs, or a child that takes things that do not belong to it. This is very appealing and will increase attendance. Have your teachers' training meeting some time that will coordinate with this work and business meeting, and then have something in the Work and Business meeting that will interest all the women in the ward, and you will be surprised how successfully it will turn out.
Last spring we asked that all of the Relief Society women of the Church donate one article, either a new article or made-over or remodeled article, for the benefit of those in need. It seems in some stakes this has hardly been understood, and they have not known what to do with the articles when they were collected. You can have the articles range in price from ten cents to any amount, even to a pair of blankets, if anyone would care to give that much. We asked every woman to turn in to the Relief Society president one article of clothing that would be suitable for those who are in need, and let the ward have it for use in the ward, but do not send it away until everyone in need in your own ward has been supplied. Now look about you and see if all the children are taken care of, that no little child is going to school humiliated because of its clothing. It is a cruel thing for a child to have to go to school or Sunday School and be ashamed because its clothing is worn. Take care of your ward out of this contribution, then if you have your ward supplied, (and we do have wards where there is very little or no need, but we still expect and hope that these sisters in such wards will contribute), and you still have a surplus, have the ward president speak to the stake president about this. In almost every stake there will be one ward where there is greater need than in other wards. Other women's organizations do this type of work. Last year the Needlework Guild of America supplied 1,300,000 articles. To be a member of the Needlework Guild one must donate two articles a year, or an equivalent amount of money. These are given to the Red Cross or to any group that are in need. We are not trying to take care of the world, but sisters of the Relief Society, do you not think this Relief Society is strong enough to take care of every Latter-day Saint child there is in this Church? Don't you think it is our calling, as mothers of the Church, to see that there is not a child in this whole Church suffering? We have a very good storehouse where used clothing and furniture are sent. The Presiding Bishopric provided these excellent quarters for us. This last year there were 3,892 articles and 621 pairs of shoes given away. When one of the sisters living here went over to get some things she needed she said, "I have five children, and not one of them had an article of underwear on this winter." Now sisters, is not this a challenge to every Relief Society woman to in some way provide for every Latter-day Saint child who is in need. One article a year given by our sisters would not be any hardship at all, but it would open a way that all could be taken care of. Care for your wards first, then if you have a surplus refer it to your stake president and let her see that every child in that stake is cared for, and then if you have a surplus do not send it to us but notify us that you have a surplus and what articles they are. We will instruct you what to do with them. I hope that the
Spirit of the Lord will be in this meeting this morning, and that it will sink into your hearts, and that you will see the beauty of this movement, and that it may accomplish some very good results.
We have to thank a number of our stake presidents who did splendid work in getting representatives to our social service institute on such short notice last winter. We have had some of the finest women here, taking the work in the institutes. Enquiries have been made when another institute will be held. The representatives from the stakes come into headquarters and for six weeks study and work just as hard as it is humanly possible to study and work, and then carry back to the stakes all the help they are capable of carrying. It is not just an innovation of Relief Society, but came from the Presiding Bishopric. To each of your stakes last year copies of the little circular, "Details of Charity Administration from the Presiding Bishopric," were sent. If you will read the second paragraph of this little booklet and see what work is assigned to us by the authorities of the Church, you will realize that we need training to do it properly. This seems to me the biggest responsibility ever given to the Relief Society, and we want to help you prepare to do this in a correct manner, so we are now going to have other institutes. We can accommodate only 25 stakes at one time. We had one last Fall beginning in August and carrying through until September, and the women said it was in the wrong time of the year, they were all so busy. Then we had one early in January, and the complaint was that it was so cold, and that was the wrong time of the year, so this time we are going to have it a vacation period, when we hope it will be satisfactory.
The Relief Society has asked for years and years that every ward and every stake in the Church keep a history of the organization. We hear that there are some stakes where there are no histories kept. We wish to say now that we shall instruct all of our General Board members who visit you this year to examine your records and read your histories and see what excellent records you have of your Relief Societies. A short time ago the three presidents of the women's organization were invited by Sister Susa Y. Gates to visit the Historian's Office, and I was amazed at the volumes and shelves of histories of the Church, but there was very little there about the history of the women. All of the ward and stake books are arranged so that you can write the history in them. We want to see what your histories are. We want to thank the sisters for the wonderful effort they have put forth in regard to the Magazine. Know that there are so many women who have had a hard time this winter, and for the efforts you blessed sisters have made that our Magazine subscriptions have kept up as well as this, we are very grateful. In one of our far away stakes a sister said, "We are doing the best we can. In one ward we have 14 members and we are sending in 20 subscriptions."
MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary
My dear sisters: I would like to say before submitting the Annual Report that it has been one of the most thrilling experiences of my life to go through the reports we have received this year, and I think every mission and every stake is to be congratulated upon the excellence of the secre-
tarial work. More than half of the mission and stake reports were perfect. Others did not quite come in this class, but in the main the reports were correct, and it was just a slight misunderstanding which we are sure will not occur another year. The standard of the work of the secretaries is very high indeed, and I want to congratulate all of them. The following is the result of a very careful audit of the annual reports: Total balance on hand, January 1, 1930, $169,391.32; Total receipts during 1930, $306,110.80; Total balance on hand and receipts, $475,502.12; Paid for charitable purposes, $109,493.19; Total disbursements, $310,697.66; Total balance, December 31, 1930, $164,804.46; total assets, $1,045,712.74; Ward conferences held 1,251; Teachers' visits made, 763,918; Visits to sick and homebound, 186,436. Membership in 1929, 62,902, in 1930, 64,225, an increase of 1,323. The membership includes, executive and special officers, 10,619, visiting teachers, 21,765, members 31,841. Average attendance, 1929, 23,716; 1930, 24,521, an increase of 805. Paid for charitable purposes, 1929, $98,925.02; 1930, $109,493.19, an increase of $10,568.17.