Orson F. Whitney, Apostle, Poet, Historian, Philosopher By Annie Wells Cannon T was dawn. The warm glow of I the rising sun kissed the eastern hills. The new day spread its golden loveliness over an awakening world, just as the kingly spirit of Orson F. Whitney, passed into the great beyond. He died May 16, 1930, peaceful and content. His way in life was pleasant for he sought only the beautiful in art and nature; had enjoyment in companionship of friends and the pursuit of knowledge. Holland's beautiful verse which he sometimes used for a text might easily apply to his own career. "Heaven is not reached in a single bound: But we build the ladder by which we rise From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies And we mount its summit round by round." While his experiences were varied, he marked for himself a pathway clear, motivated by earnest endeavor, poetic ideals and fervent emotion. ORSON FERGUSON WHITNEY was born in Salt Lake City July 1, 1855, son of Horace K. Whitney, one of the original pioneers of 1847, and Helen Mar Kimhall, eldest daughter of Heber C. Kimball, a member of the first council of the twelve under Joseph Smith and counselor to President Brigham Young. His boyhood was spent largely in the open spaces. Amusements were few for the pioneer children save such as they themselves provided. There was, however, an exceptional opportunity in the community of seeing the classic: drama and Shakespeare's plays, given by the old Salt Lake dramatic association, of which Orson's father was a member. His father was also a gifted musician while his mother was a forceful writer and speaker. These inherited talents added to his natural gifts—a remarkable memory, a rich mellow voice, graceful and pleasing personality, would seem to point to a stage career, and that was his choice, but Providence ruled otherwise. In 1876 he answered a call for a mission to the eastern states. Engaged in this ministry, he found his true 306 vocation; here, too, he began his literary work, contributing poems and articles to the home papers. Soon after his return from this mission Elder Whitney was appointed Bishop of the 18th Ward, a stewardship he held for 28 years and wherein he was greatly loved and honored. The capacious and beautiful annex to the ward chapel is named Whitney Hall in his honor. In 1881 Bishop Whitney took a second mission, this time going to Europe. While in' England he availed himself of the rare pleasure of visiting places he had learned to love through the medium of romance and poetry—homes and haunts of the English poets, the abbeys and castles around which their stories are entwined, like the ivy on their walls. In 1906 (Elder Whitney was appointed a member of the Council of the Twelve. To this high calling he gave the most sincere and reverent devotion. In 1921 he went again to England, this time to preside over the European mission. A severe illness shortened this mission and he returned home in a few months. Always in the ministry he found happiness and satisfaction and was an eloquent defender of the faith with tongue and pen. Among the stakes and missions he traveled, exhorting and encouraging the people in ways of righteousness. Elder Whitney's literary work is outstanding. As an historian he was accurate and careful, as a poet lofty and idealistic, as an essayist logical and convincing, all making a valuable contribution to the literature of the (Church and state. "The Lifted Ensign—A Call to Israel" was written for the Centennial RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Conference, April 6, 1930, and read by the author on that memorable occasion before the vast audience in the Tabernacle. Notwithstanding his inclination for the more quiet calling in the ministry or literary field, Elder Whitney was not unmindful of his responsibilities as a loyal and patriotic citizen and held many offices both civic and state. He was a member of the Constitutional Convention in 1894, held prior to statehood, at which time he made an earnest and eloquent plea for the cause of woman suffrage. He was Chancellor and Regent of the State University, taught philosophy and history at the Brigham Young College at Logan and for many years was a member of the Church Board of Education. December 18, 1879, Elder Whitney was married to Zina Beal Smoot, the piquant and charming daughter of Abraham O. Smoot of Provo. Zina died in 1900. She was the mother of nine children, seven of whom are living. In July, 1888, he married May. Wells, daughter of Gen. Daniel H. Wells, and to her fell the task of caring for these motherless children as well as her own two boys. To all she gave tender care and devotion. In the atmosphere of social and home life Orson Whitney's charm was most apparent. There his ready wit, his gift as a recounter of fascinating stories, his many accomplishments afforded delightful entertainment. Always the gentleman, refined, sensitive, kind, how he will be missed. To his family he rendered sweet affection and has left a legacy of things imperishable. He mounted the ladder round by round. Who doubts but he reached the "summit of the vaulted skies."