DEAR SISTER HELEN:

	It has been some time since I wrote you last.
Considerable of a change has taken place since
then, I was then laboring in Bland, Pulaski
and Giles Counties, but we were counseled to
discard that field of labor on account of such a
bitter feeling arising against us among a cer-
tain class and such indifference among others-
This feeling of enmity was so bitter in a certain
neighborhood that they burned a gentleman's
barn that had the audacity to keep us over
night in this Christian country, calling a mass
meeting, passing resolutions against us, etc.
We did all in our power to spread the Gospel
and to warn them of the calamities that would

[Column 2]
eventually come upon the wicked and ungodly
unless they repented of their sins and gathered
out from Babylon, but our testimonies seemed
to fall unheeded to the ground. We were un-
able to get places to hold meetings, as all
churches, schoolhouses, and even groves, were
closed against us. Therefore it was deemed
advisable by our president to change our field
of labor.
	We are now located in Bath Co. I will en.
deavor to give you a brief description of this
part of the country. I suppose it derived its
name from the mineral springs which are
found here; it joins West Virginia, and is loca-
ted on the very top, you might say, of the
Alleghany mountains, as the principal moun-
tain by this name running north and south di-
vides the two states; also the principal streams
which form the James River run through this
Co,; the most prominent among them being
Cow Pasture and Jackson's river. These
springs, the most renowned of them, are situa-
ted at the foot of what is called the Warm
Spring Mountain. The spring by this name is
located in a lovely cove, and is a beautiful
place to behold; a fine large hotel in the centre
of the grounds is surrounded by cottages for
the accommodation of families, beautiful lawns
laid off upon all sides materially add to its
beauty and attraction as a summer resort.
They can accommodate about four hundred
guests and are always full during the warm
weather. It is claimed these waters are very
beneficial in certain diseases. Opposite this
place stands their Court House, a fine brick
structure. Five miles south of this, following
the turnpike, we come to the renowned Hot
Springs, this is a more beautiful place if possi-
ble than the warm, besides the hot bath there
is the mud and sulphur bath, and others that I
am not acquainted with. The cures accredited
to these waters are almost miraculous, especial-
ly in cases of chronic rheumatism. They can
accommodate four hundred guests at this
place, and have everything for the comfort and
pleasure of their patrons. I understand the
principal owner of this fine property is Ben
Holiday of western fame. Five miles south of
this we find the Healing Springs. I have not
visited these so will not be able to give you a
description of them; but suffice it to say, their
waters are noted for their efficacy in the cure
of skin and blood diseases. There is also the
Bath Alum over the mountains, a fine place,
and has its share of business; people from all
parts of the world visit these places; it is a
sight to see the sick and afflicted that come
here in hope of being benefitted by the use of
these waters.
	We have done considerable preaching in this
neighborhood, and though met by bitter oppo-
sition, with the help of our Heavenly Father,
have been successful in bringing some into the
Church, and good prospects of others following
their example. At first churches and school-
houses were proffered to us, our appointments
were given out and our friends were numerous,
but this was of short duration, preaching in
those buildings is a thing of the past as they
have all been closed against us. A great
many of our so-called friends have turned the
cold shoulder, as you are aware, it is not popu-
lar to be friendly with the "Mormons;" but
there is a number left yet, thank God, whom
those base slanders which are circulated about
us only make more substantial, for they see by
our works we are what we profess. I find those
that are at the head in sowing broadcast
through the land these base falsehoods, are
men who profess to be ministers of the Gospel,
followers of the meek and lowly Jesus; but He
has left us a key whereby we can tell the gen-
uine from the counterfeit. "By their fruits ye
shall know them." Excitement is running
high against us a people, fanned into a fierce
flame, no doubt, by the President's message

[Column 3]
and various other publications. A great many
of Ann Eliza's books are in circulation here
and a great many swallow the contents as a
sweet morsel, and most vindictive are the
threats that are hurled against us on all sides,
but we care little about them; we put our trust
in God, knowing as we do that He is with us,
that we are in His service, and as long we do
our duty, keeping ourselves free and unspotted
from the world, He will preserve us from dan-
ger and death.
	We will continue here this winter teaching
and encouraging those that belong to the
Church and those that are investigating. We
hold our meetings in private houses, preaching
to small congregations. My health is excel-
lent and I take great pleasure in my labors.
Remember me to Uncle Horace, Aunt Mary,
and all the children, and also to inquiring
friends, not forgetting yourself.
		Your affectionate brother,
