DEAR SISTER BELLE
	We returned a few days since from Munich,
where we received your good letter of Dec, 7th
ult. Where the letter has been wandering for
six weeks I cannot imagine, but I am exceed-
ingly glad to get it at last.	*	*	*	*
	While in Munich we spent every minute of
our time to the best advantage, you know full
well how tiresome sight-seeing is, but we h[--]
an excellent time. Munich is a grand, old city,
and the people are so courteous and polite. It
is said to be the cheapest capital in Europe, and
certainly there is much to boast of in beauty
and magnificense. The city is full of soldiers,
and we saw them drill nearly every day, and
the music was charming.	*	*	The first
day we visited the Old Pinakole[--], a splendid
picture gallery, where we saw pictures by
Rapheal, Murillo, Titan Tintoretta and two
large rooms with adjoining cabinets hung with
pictures by Rubens and Durer. I am most
pleased with Murillo's pictures, they are so
natural and life like.
	The next day we walked up the Maximillian
Strausse, the finest street of the city; the build-
ings on this street are very grand, and in the
center of the street are many large, fine statues.
Right at the head of the street on a hill is the
Maxianium, a very fine, handsome building; it
was cloudy when we got there so we could not
enjoy seeing the pictures so much. We visited
the South Cemetery, the finest one in Germany.
While there we saw two Catholic funerals.
	The next morning we visited several Catholic
Churches. They are all wonderfully decorated.
n one of them is a statue of Eugene B [---]-
nais, crowned as a Greek hero. We went from
one church to another, until I saw all I ever
wish to of Catholics At every door were beg-
gars crossing themselves, counting beads and
begging for money.
	While in Munich we saw, in the Hof Thea-
tre, the opera of Faust. This theatre is the
largest in Germany, and the fr[---]g is very
fine, yet it seemed to me bare and unfinished.
The boxes were none of them draped, and the
curtain was very ugly. The scenery, however,
was excellent, and the manner in which it was
manipulated was perfectly wonderful. There
were sixty musicians in the orchestra, and a
very full chorus. Imagine how pleasant it
would be to see Faust in the original language,
and performed so excellently. We also saw the
Vampire after Byron in this theatre. This is
the first time I ever went to the theatre with-
out a hat; all the ladies took off their wraps and
hats, and I think the idea is a very sensible one,
for sometimes it is quite annoying to sit behind
a great, big hat and have one's view obstructed.
	I must tell you I have seen a queen. As we
walked down Maximillian Strau[-]ss we met the
mother queen with another lady and a guard
taking a morning walk. Every one stopped and
bowed to her. The last day we were in Munich
we went to the Palace, and were shown through
some of the rooms. In one room there is a bed-
stead which cost 800,000 florias, and it took forty
people ten years to make it. It is most beauti-
ful, ornamented with all red b[---]ded velvet,
embroidered with gold thread. The finest room
we were in was the Throne Room, where there
are a number of large statues made from cannons
captured in war and coated with gold. This
room is only used for baptisms, and when the
king receives foreign ministers. The rooms were


very singular, all inlaid floors and gilded ceilings
with either painted walls or walls hung with
velve[-]. The ball room was very lovely; opening
from this were smaller rooms hung with pic-
tures of beautiful women. These were called
the Gallery of beauties. Among them was only
one English picture, Lady Brook, of London.
They were all very lovely. I cannot tell you
half I saw in Munich, but shall talk you all to
death when I come home telling you all that I
have seen. I had such a delightful time there,
and shall never forget it.
	John Q. has gone to-day to Shirley to hold
meeting, and I am in the office writing. It is a
very stormy, wintry day, and would not tempt
many for such a long walk as he has taken.
	I see the little boys here, and I think I will
tell Sep. how they act. The most of them are
very polite, and they all go to school. They
carry their books in a satchel strapped on their
backs, and they often stop on the way to spin
tops. They have whips with which they make
the tops just spin round, instead of strings like
the boys at home.
	The sisters are gathering for meeting, though
it is not near time. The sisters here are all so
kind, and make such a fuss over me, as if I were
a wonderful creature, something different from
them, by the way they treat me.
	After all there is nothing like home, and no
people quite like our own of course.
	We had a very, funny experience crossing
Lake Constance last Thursday. It was quite
stormy, and our companions were not very
brave sailors; when the boat tipped they jumped
from the table and started for the doors and
windows in a most frightened manner. We
laughed at them for seeming so stupid, as to be
frightened at such a little lurch.	*	*	*
	John Q. joins me in love to Mr. Sears, all the
children, yourself, and remember me to all
friends, and believe me, ever your loving sister,
