MUSINGS

	As I sit to-night by the cheerful fire-side my
thoughts wander afar back, and I am led to
exclaim, "Oh, how I am blessed; what peace
surrounds me; all is calm and quiet; the angel
of peace is with me." I have just finished
reading some incidents connected with the
early history of the Church, and could not
help comparing the condition of the Saints in
those days, and their condition to-day. Then
they were driven before vile and wicked mobs,
hungry and cold, men, women and children,
who were doing no evil, but simply trying to
serve God. Oh! what a trial it must have been
to parents to see their little children suffering
with hunger, cold and sickness, as many of
them did. But how are we situated to-day?
Are we not greatly blessed in being permitted
to dwell in comparative peace? We really are,
and we cannot show too much gratitude to our
Heavenly Father for these blessings, for if it
were not for His power we would be swept
from the face of the earth, for aside from our-
selves, as a people, we have no friends on earth.
See how hard Congress is trying to deprive us
of our rights, and how we are being misrepre-
sented by evil and corrupt people; both by men
and women. For instance read accounts of
Mrs. Angie Newman’s lecture in Cincinnatti.
When I read such reports as she gives of us as
a people, it makes my blood boil, for I feel as
though the Lord would not censure us for re-
senting such gross insults; for are not such wick-
ed lies insults? I take them as such; and to
think that she would have the impudence to
offer to help us. Do we need her help, in fact
do we need the help of any of our enemies?
No, thanks be to God, we do not. She had
better help those who need her help; but I fear
she does not help many. I don’t think she is
charitable enough. If she was she would have
charity enongh to at least tell the truth about
us. Oh, how little they seem to understand
that they are sealing their own dooml Surely
they stand in need of our pity. We should
have the "moral courage" to stand all that the
wicked do or say against us. for we know that
God is at the helm, and He has acknowledged
us as His people, and also that if we would
serve Him that He would fight our battles.
Then how necessary it is for us to serve Him.
What a glorious reward awaits those who are
faithful even unto the end.
	Look at Oliver Cowdery, a man once high
in authority, who not only saw, but who con-


verzed with holy angels; and then to think that
he should fall. It makes me shudder, and I
wonder if I will be able to stand when the
great day of trial comes, for there will surely
be a day come when we will be tried to the
very heart’s core, and if we cannot stand the
trials, and fall, oh, what a fall it will be.
When on the other hand, if we remain firm
and steadfast, what a great reward awaits us.
My greatest desire for myself is, that I may
have firmness enough to stand true to my God,
true to myself, and true to my fellow men, and
that I may have wisdom to rear my children in
the way of the Lord.	
	We, as mothers in Israel, have a great res-
ponsibility resting upon us, for the Lord has
blessed us with our children, and we will be
held accountable for the care we take of them,
and we should be careful to set them a good
example, and counsel and reason with them,
and warn them while they are young of the
evils that they are surrounded with. We
should also be very prayerful ourselves, and
then we can teach our children to pray. If we
will endeavor to instill the principles of the
Gospel in their hearts and minds while they
are young we need not fear for them in the fu-
ture. I have heard children say that they are
never taught to pray, and yet their parents
pretend to be Latter-day Saints. Now, can
they truly be called such? Alas, I fear not!
and the day is surely coming when we will
have to be Saints in very deed, or we will be
cast out entirely. I do not care for the sneers
of unbelievers, all I want is the approval of
the Almighty, and to feel that He is pleased
with my efforts to serve Him. Some luke-warm
Saints, when they are in the presence of unbe-
lievers, have not the moral courage to say they
are what the world calls “Mormons.” Why
should they be afraid? Why not stand out
boldly and say they are “Mormons?” It would
give me pleasure to tell some of those pious
"Mormon" haters that I was not only a "Mor-
mon," but that I was a child, of plural marriage
that my life had been spent in that system,that I
knew nothing of any other kind of life, and
that I did not want to know anything else. I
can declare that to the world with great pride.
And are my children any the worse for my be-
ing born and married in that order?
No. They are just as perfect in mind and body
as any children I ever saw. Does it make me
doubt that principle because it is scoffed at by
the world? It does not. It makes me more
determined than ever. Nothing should make
us doubt the principles of life and salvation,
and if we can only live that order of marriage
the way the Lord desires us to live it, those
who reject and sneer at it will, in the next life,
be far beneath us.
	Then let us be faithful, and discharge our
duties heedless of the sneers of the wicked.
Ever praying for the cause of truth and suc-
cess of the EXPONENT, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel of Christ.
