ANSWER TO WOMAN AND SIN.
			------
IN THE CINCINNATI ENQUIRER
			------
	As we are living in the last days when great
and mighty revolutions are taking place, and
understanding somewhat of the purposes of
God, we would think it very strange it some of
Eve's daughters did not possess more lofty
ideas and a higher ambition than have those
of former generations, and it is high time that
they should begin to think and read and act
for themselves; and "inquire whence they
came, whither going, and who they belong to,"
instead of remaining in the same old ruts in
which they have been trained, and wherein the
human family have been gravitating down-
wards for the past generations.  It is a very
erroneous idea, though we know it to be a long
cherished one, which has been thrown into the
teeth of woman by the stronger sex, that she
must shoulder the curse because Eve ate and
gave to Adam the forbidden fruit. We could
with as much propriety accuse him of being
less ambitious and enterprising than the wom-
an; "if he could do only as he was told," as
this writer says, "he would be no higher in the
scale of moral being than the beasts, who in-
deed know neither virtue nor vice" And the
time has arrived when the "bars must be let
down before her, or she will break-them; and
sentence or disability upon her must stand up-
on the evidence and upon reason, or must fall.'
If "she once had equality, and even leadership,
and made a mess of  it," man, who has pro-
fessed to be the master spirit, has made a worse
"mess," and the majority of men have sold
even their birthright for a bowl of pottage; and
it needs no prophet to predict that the day is
nigh when they will have to call upon the
weaker sex to come to their rescue.  Quarrel-
ing over politics and national affairs has been
left for them to do, till through selfishness and
dishonest meddling with what was none of
their business they have abolished freedom and
made it a perfect farce, thereby proving them-
selves no longer fit to govern or manage alone.
Tyranny, broils and contentions and misrule
have taken the place of honor and justice--the
strong are allowed to oppress the weak, and
pass sentence upon them at their will, and it is
high time that woman began to look around her
and to demand the rights which man has so
unlawfully usurped.  And neither should it be
wondered at if, among the wronged and down-
trodden portion, there should be those who feel
"to kick against the Bible," or occasionally ex-
hibit something more than feminine or Christ-
ian weakness. Though she may be entitled to
the honor of acting upon the stage of life and as-
sisting in improving the drama, and though she
acts her part proportionately well, yet it has
been viewed as an awful absurdity for her to
expect an equal share in the praise or the prof-
its.  They might as well say, and with quite as
much propriety, that all of the men were in-
tended to work out doors, or at the same kind
of business or trade, and that all should look
through the same pair of spectacles, or be fitted
by the same measure, no matter whether they
be tall or short, thick or thin; and each one
must be satisfied with one peck measure, no
matter how much more they may require, or
what their cravings may be, they must look no
farther; than to think that all women should
be satisfied and contented with one and the
same condition--the tiresome and monotonous
routine of domestic, or some other labor--as-
piring to nothing beyond what man considers
to be her sphere, because the majority of their 
foremothers were compelled by circumstances
to drudge their lives out in one and the same
kind of a tread-mill.
	"But times are changing," and I think that
there are more women in Utah who realize this
and understand their true position, and what
constitutes "woman's rights," than can be pro-
duced in any other part of the world; and who,
if they feel their rights infringed upon, are
very apt to express it.  We have no reason to
doubt that the cries of God's daughters and
little ones have ascended up into the higher
courts and that God has taken cognizance of
their "case," and He is delivering them from
the iron rule of selfish and ungodly men.  But
the power and influence of women will increase
just in proportion to the purity and righteous-
ness of her course.  Had we nothing more
than the present translation of the Bible to de-
pend upon we should be as much at sea con-
cerning the Gospel and our future state as the
rest of the world appear to be.  But the revel-
ations given to us through the Prophet Joseph
Smith throw new light upon the Scriptures,
and a great deal that was once a dead letter
can now be interpreted; and we, therefore, take
a more consistent and enlightened view of the
Scriptures, which previous to this was as a
sealed book.
	In the Book of Mormon the record of Ne-
phi tells us of the destruction of Jerusalem
which was foretold to him and his father Lehi
in vision, and that their lives were sought be-
cause they declared to the people the things
that were coming, as they were commanded to.
They were shown that through the "transcrib-
ing, amending, translating, etc.," of the Scrip-
tures by uninspired men, many precious por-
tions would be altered or rejected and cast out,
and that "when the book (Bible) proceeded
forth from the mouth of a Jew it contained
the plainness of the Gospel, 	*	*	*
wherefore these things go forth from the Jews
in purity unto the Gentiles according to the
truth which is in God.  But after it had gone
forth through the hands of the great and abom-
inable church, 	*	*	many plain
and precious things had been taken away.
	"And after these plain and precious things
were taken away, it goeth forth unto all the na-
tions of the Gentiles, and after it goeth forth
unto all the nations, 	*	yea, even across
the mighty waters which thou hast seen with
the Gentiles which have gone forth out of cap-
tivity, thou seest because of the many plain
and precious things which have been taken
out of the book	*	*	*	*	an
exceeding great many do stumble. *	*
Wherefore, saith the Lamb of God, I will be
merciful unto the Gentiles, insomuch that I
will bring forth unto them in mine own power
much of my Gospel,	*	*	behold
these things shall be hid up to come forth unto
the Gentiles by the gift and power of the
Lamb, 	*	*	and blessed are they
who thall seek to bring forth my Zion at that
day, for they shall have the gift and power of
the Holy Ghost: and if they endure unto the
end they shall be lifted up at the last day and
shall be saved; and whoso shall publish peace,
yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon
the mountains shall they be."
	When these records were translated by Jos-
eph Smith he had never dreamed of coming
west, much less that so many thousands would
gather up to these  Rocky Mountains, but that
and much more that is wonderful we have seen
come to pass.
	In this translation we find no refletion cast
upon Eve; but we find the following among the
last words that Lehi spoke to his sons, when
he was feeble and trembling with age: "And
now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he
would not have fallen; but he would have re-
mained in the Garden of Eden, and all things
which were created must have remained in the
same state in which they were, after they were
created; and they must have remained forever,
and had no end, and they would have had no
children: therefore they would have remained
in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they
knew no misery, doing no good, for they knew
no sin.  But, behold, all things have been
done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all-
things. Adam fell that men might be; and 
men are that they might have joy.  And the
Messiah cometh in the fulness of times, that
He may redeem the children of men from the
fall.  And because they are redeemed from the
fall, they have become free forever, knowing
good from evil; to act for themselves, and not
be acted upon, save it be by the punish-
ment of the law, at the great and last day, ac
cording to the commandments which God hath
given.  Wherefore men are free according to 
the flesh; and all things are given them which
are expedient unto man, and they are free to
choose liberty and eternal life through the
great mediation of all men, or to choose cap
tivity and death according to the captivity and
power of the devil: far he seeketh that all men
might be miserable like unto himself."
	The word of God is to this effect, and it
must needs be that there is an opposition in all
things, or there could have been no purpose in
the end of creation.  Were there not bitter as
well as sweet there would be no opposition, and
therefore there would be nothing to stimulate
one to act for him or herself, neither could
they, were they not enticed by one or the other.
What more could one desire than is contained
in this which belongs to the Gospel, and we
could not ask greater freedom than this, and
which I testify is enjoyed by every soul who
has received the faith and principles of this
the everlasting Gospel; and it would be to the
interest of all if they would but stop and in-
vestigate and weigh the matter well, and not
reject the only true source through which they
may obtain  liberty and eternal life.


[Column 1]
	Having travelled somewhat extensively dur-
ing the past year or two, visiting different set-
tlements with other sisters, I have heard a great
many testimonies by the fireside, as well as in
public, to the purity and godliness of the plu-
ral order of marriage, which has been the
means of uniting the hearts of many sisters who
had come together as strangers, but dwelling
together for years and each struggling to sub-
due their selfishness and practicing the teach-
ings of Christ they had come to love one an-
other, and this attachment had become deep
and lasting. Their testimony did not add any-
thing to my faith, for I know by actual expe-
rience that to enter this order is the first and
surest step towards woman's emancipation from
that thraldom and servitude which has been
imposed npon her by the sterner sex, and un-
der which she has weltered for so many centu-
ries. The Lord has decreed that she shall be
free, and it is her prerogative, as well as man's,
to choose her own path, and improve her tal-
ents as she feels inclined, and show whether or
not her gifts are inferior to his.
	When reading General Butler's opinion
about "woman not being a person." I thought
if he had only been a "Mormon" this would
have furnished a sweet morsel for our oppo-
nents to send forth to condemn us, when
among the most generous of their lords of cre-
ation, few have yet been willing that woman
should have a voice in any public matter
whatever, as if the crime of womanhood
should doom her to perpetual vassalage. The
ladies of Utah were among the first to claim
the franchise, though some of the males who
were not entirely liberated from that old fogy
idea of Paul's, that it "was not decent for a
woman to speak in church," felt considerably
alarmed over the fearful step that some of our
ladies were taking, especially when applying
for the removal of woman's disabilities, think-
ing it very unfeminine, and that they were tres-
passing upon forbidden ground, and would
more than likely make fools of themselves, and
there was quite a war of words over it. but
as ridicule was their best weapon, it gave us
the advantage and they were beaten at their
own game and retired considerably discomfit-
ed. And being blessed with wiser heads, whose
superior judgment overruled, that feeling be-
came subdued if not entirely squelched. Pres-
ident Brigham Young was in favor of this
step, and had proposed it sometime previous to
his death, and the Lord had, no doubt, in-
spired him to do so. The woman's bill had
passed both houses, but it failed to become a
law for lack of the signature of our self-es-
teemed Christian philanthropist, Eli H. Mur-
ray, whose death knell is already sounding as
another warning to that class who try to rise
upon the downfall of others.
	Allowing that the old Scriptures were "not
all given by inspiration," as testified by the
Rev. Dr. Curry, of Chicago, man cannot lay
this sin to Eve's door, as we have no record of
her having a hand in transcribing or changing
them or any of the ordinances of God's house.
And when, what he terms the "ten thousand
old wives' fables," which "the Old Testament
abounds with, finally drop out like a tadpole
loses its tail," the world will have no further
use for the now necessary appendage called
woman, and the honored practice of rais-
ing families will have become obsolete. But
as we are dawning upon a more enlightened
age we find that we are not dependent upon
man's theories or fables, for the heavens are
opened to all who will knock, and there, if we
seek, we can find. It is the privilege of all to
search after the wisdom and the knowledge of
God, which is necessary to enable one to tread
in the path which our Savior marked out, show-
ing plainly that we must give to Him our undi-
vided hearts, and that if we wish to attain to
the highest glory we must pass through similar

[Column 2]
trials, and that if we will do this we can be-
come joint-heirs with Him to kingdoms, princi-
palities and powers. All this and more even
than can be comprehended by man is prom-
ised to every soul who is willing to lay the
foundation for it here. We should realize that
we are all brothers and sisters of one great
family, aud we ought to understand our true
position to our Father who erected His King-
dom upon the same natural principle. The
old serpent, we are told, was once an angel of
God and had fallen from heaven, wherefore he
became a devil, having sought that which was
evil before God; and because he had fallen
from heaven, and had become miserable forev-
er, he sought also the misery of mankind.
When he said unto Eve, "partake of the for-
bidden fruit, and ye shall not die; but ye shall
be as God, knowing good and evil," he did it
for an evil purpose; but the Lord only permit-
ted him to go thus far to carry out His own
plans; and men are lowering themselves, if
they did but know it, when they admit that
such a stigma is attached to their mother,s
name, "You brought sin into the world."
When the Lord said, "Behold the man is
become one of us," He meant the woman as
well and if they became one with the gods in
partaking of that fruit, then can we not draw
this conclusion, that in the restoration of all
things woman, who was the first to know good
and evil, will stand as good a chance to be ex-
alted as man, and that she will reign in like
majesty and power as a queen or goddess over
the kingdom which she has helped to inhabit?
Yes, and every son and daughter who willing-
ly walk in accordance with those laws and
plans laid down by the Father and Son Jesus
—keeping all the commandments which He
has given to His prophets, ancient and modern,
will be enabled, in a day to come, to claim the
same glory for having been faithful over a few
things, He will make them rulers over many.
This is what every Latter-day Saint who has
come to an understanding of this Gospel is
working for, and is what stimulates and ena-
bles us to "endure all things that we may obtain
all things." Abraham was promised that his
seed should become as numerous as the sand
upon the sea shore, and others have received
similar promises. But he had a plurality of
wives, by whom his kingdom was increased
more rapidly, and so also did his sons, and we
see by natural principle that the size of one's
kingdom must depend greatly upon the num-
ber of their posterity as well as by adoption,
and also upon their righteousness in this pro-
bation, and we will find millions of children
whose parents are unworthy of them. And
where there are a number of wives who are
fruitful, the more numerous will become their
posterity, and if they are also righteous each
wife may in this way eventually become a
queen over her own kingdom; and the greater
the number of these kingdoms the greater
will be the man's glory, and all these
will add to the kingdom and glory of our God;
and when their work is finished and presented
to Him, if each have done their part as He
commanded when he divides his estate there is
no power on earth or in heaven that can hin-
der the woman from receiving what she has
earned, for this is her own heritage.
	But what of those who from pure indolence
or the fear of trouble or a man-fearing spirit
have shirked their duties and disobeyed the
commandments and requirements of their Ma-
ker? To be fruitful and multiply and replen-
ish the earth, was the first great command, and
to labor and till the soil was not only "enno-
bling," but healthful, and promotes life, and
such are progressive and give evidence in this
probationary state of their worthiness to fill a
higher and more responsible position in the
next. How much more terrible will be their
sin and their disappointment when they awake

[Column 3]
in the morning of the resurrection and find
their glory has been clipped by their own slack-
ness and refusing to take upon them their cross
or even to bear the souls of men, which is the
glory of woman. There will be greater mercy
for the ones who have sinned through ignor-
ance. Thus we see that the world has been re-
trograding, and those who oppose and fight a-
gainst these principles will find that what they
seemed to have, will be taken from them and
given to another, for they have buried their
talent instead of improving upon it. And
these welcome words cannot be said to them:
"Well done, thou good and faithful servant,
thou hast been faithful over a few things and
I will make thee ruler over many." But the
ones that are destined to fill these high posi-
tions are only those who will yield a strict obe-
dience to the laws of God, and such must make
up their mind to tread a thorny path, being
made partakers of sorrow and suffering that
they may understand the heighth and the depth
of mortal woe; that they may be capable of
feeling for others, and to deal out true justice
and mercy to all. We have the life of our Sa-
vior, which is set as a sample, and if we ever
become joint-heirs with Him, must we not tread
in His footsteps? But He said, "Come unto
me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and
I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you
and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in
heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."
Where is there a soul who has rendered will-
ing obedience to His admonitions, that has not
found peace and rest to the soul? We know
that there is far greater safety and hap-
piness both here and hereafter in taking the
course that was marked out by the Great and
Alwise Creator than to trifle with and outrage
His laws and the laws of nature, and thereby be-
come the greater slaves to passion and dissipa-
tion. And we know if the plural order of mar-
riage had not been instituted His grandest pur-
poses would have been thwarted—a fact which
no one understands better than does Satan,
and this is why we are prompted continually
to do evil and to neglect our duties, and they
are his agents who are so energetic in opposing
this Church, because he knows it to be the on-
ly true one; which will receive and act upon this
and other principles which God has condes-
cended to reveal to us through His boy-Proph-
et, Joseph Smith, who, being unlearned, was
not puffed up in pride and vain conceit, but
was entirly dependant upon Him for revela-
tion and wisdom; and he suffered the common
lot of all who have undertaken to war with
wickedness and the fierce prejudices of a stero-
typed and corrupt Christianity. They are the
ones who have thrown aside their free agency
and do not exercise their own reason, but have
become the willing slaves to priestcraft and
public opinion, and they are afraid to follow
even their honest convictions. The Bible does
not say that God hateth this plural order, but
 that "He hateth putting away." And what
of the present state of society in the Christian
world and the crime of infanticide which, in
the words of a popular physician, is "increas-
ing with fearful rapidity and has really reached
such a magnitude as to seriously affect the
growth of civilized nations and to threateu
their very existence."		*		*	The
most unstinted and scathing invectives are
used in characterizing the criminality of a mo-
ther who takes the life of her unborn babe,
but a word is seldom said of the one who forced
upon her the circumstances which gave the
unfortunate one existence. Though doctors,
ministers, moralists have said much upon this
subject and written more, it is reasonable to
suppose they will never accomplish much
of anything in the direction of reform until
they recognize the part the man acts in all of
these sad cases, and begin to demand reform


where it is most needed, and where its achieve-
ment will effect the most good." And here is
the testimony of another learned physician:
"From a very large verbal and written corres-
pondence in this and other states, I am satis-
fied that we have become a nation of murder-
ers." Is this not a home thrust, and what
more need be said in condemnation of a
government that is so lost to every sense of
honor and humanity and have become so ac-
customed to these crimes that their consciences
are scathed over, as it were, with a hot iron.
And this is the condition of society from
whence comes the cry for "Mormons,' to repu-
diate every wife but one- leave them with a
tarnished name—destitute of homes aud sup-
port and bring them down, if possible, to their
own degraded level, ignoring the very thing
which would soonest rid the world of these so-
cial impurities. They know as well as we do
that this kind of marriage would be a promoter
of virtue if it were only made honorable be-
fore the world; but that would destroy their
own pet institutions, therefore they cry it
down. But if purity is ever brought into the
political world it will be when women enjoy
equality with men and can have a voice in
making the laws, and when they will claim the
freedom of choosing and marrying honorable
husbands who will not be ashamed to own
them before the world as wives, though they
may have a plural number. And this is the
only thing that will enable us to erect a lasting
barrier against those pernicious and demoraliz-
ing influences that are fostered and encouraged
in the midst of our would-be reformers. A
painful evidence of its looseness and immoral
tendencies we are obliged occasionally to wit-
ness, and the withered hopes of those who were
in a measure blind to the vicious and baneful
influences that were gradually thrown around
their loved ones. We are fixed and deter-
mined to grapple with error and prejudice un-
til a better system of social government is es-
tablished, and we fear not the consequences,
knowing that we are in the service of Him
who commanded it and that He will still pro-
vide a way for our deliverance, and that He
has accepted the bleeding sacrifice that we
have made for the public weal as well as our
future glory, and which has stimulated the
weakest saint who has launched forth to remove
the obstacles that are thrown up like mountains
before us. There is no other panacea to be
found, and we shall be enabled through this to
produce a higher and nobler tpye of humanit-
ty, alike in physical, mental and moral growth.
And we defy any earthly potentate of power
to compel us to give testimony against our hus-
bands who have other wives for conscience
sake. According to an old time proverb,
"When woman will she will, you may depend
on't, but when she won't she won't, and there’s
an end on't." And we think that they will
have to begin soon, to be enabled to roof over
sufficient Territory to hold all the wives and
children who will refuse to give evidence to
convict the men of their choice. Which prac-
tice should be considered the most odious in
the sight of decent people, that which was fol-
lowed by men of God anciently, or the modern
custom of brothel-keeping-- houses of iniquity,
which are built and sustained by fathers and
husbands who are open perjurers? Running
after “strange women,” whose "mouth is a deep
pit," and "he that is abhored of the Lord shall
fall therein, his house is the way to hell, going
down to the chambers of death; he that doeth
it destroyeth his own sould."
	The women of this church are generally of
the strong-minded class, and as we have dis-
carded the various receipts recommended by
the pious male quacks, we advise them to retire
awile and allow us to mix an swallow our
own physic, if we need it, instead of forcing it
down other people's throats. But we will as-
sure them that from these mountains is to roll
that little stone spoken of in the Scriptures,
which will bring about this great work of re-
form. And though our motives are now mis-
understood and we are looked down upon as
the very scum of society, we do not feel it, but
consider ourselves among the most highly fa-
vored of God's children, and console ourselves
with this assurance and the knowledge that we
will yet be looked up to and honored as the
founders of a superior system of Christianity.
