A FRIENDLY VISIT.

	The recent visit of the Wyoming Legislature
to this city out of courtesy to the Legislature of 
Utah, was an event of considerable importance,
and unusual in the history of Territories. It
will doubtless be beneficial in creating a feeling
of greater interest in each other's future welfare.
The Wyoming party, consisting of the mem-
bers of the Legislature, the President of the
Council and Speaker of the House, with a
number of ladies, and accompanied by other in-
vited guests, arrived in this city on the evening
of Feb. 24th.
	A party of gentlemen from Salt Lake, includ-
ing Mayor Jennings and some members of the
City Council, and a delegation from the Utah
Legislature, met the Wyoming people in Ogden
where greetings were interchanged and appro-
priate demonstrations made by the city authori-
ties; then the Wyoming party and the Utah
Legislature attended the Theatre the same
evening of their arrival, by invitation of the
City Council.
	The next day the two Legislatures met in
joint session. At 11:30 His Excellency, Govern-
or Murray, of Utah, and the Legislature of 
Wyoming entered the hall. President of the
Council, Hon. W. W. Cluff introduced Hon. M. 
H. Halliday, President of the Wyoming Coun-
cil, who addressed the audience for a few mo-
ments in a very able and dignified manner.
Hon. James Sharp, Speaker of the House, in-
troduced Hon. F. R. Jones, Speaker of the
House of Wyoming Legislature, who mad
some vary suitable and complimentary remarks,
and closed by saying, "With hearts as large as
our immense plains we invite you to return our
visit." Hon. F. D Richards moved the adop-
tion of the following resolutions:
	Where[--], the people of the Territory of Utah
are this day honored with the presence of the 
Legislative Assembly of our neighboring Terri-
tory, Wyoming, whose material prosperity and
rapid growth command our admiration and res-
pect, a Territory famed throughout the United
States as the pioneer in removing from women
all the political disabilities and placing them
side by side with the sterner sex, as sharers in
the rights, as well as the duties of citizens, a
movement in which Utah has shown her
complete sympathy by legislation, of almost as
early a date as Wyoming's suffrage law;
	And, whereas, The two Territories are bound
together by interests in many respects similar,
and by ties of common brotherhood and cstcem;
therefore, be it.
	Resolved, That we, the Legislative Assembly,
in joint session assembled, desiring to show our
appreciation of this friendly visit, in the name
of the people of Utah, whom we represent, here-
by extend to our distinguished visitors a cordial
[Column 2]
greeting and hearty welcome to the oldest Ter-
ritory of of our great Republic.
	The resolutions were adopted. Gov. Murray
was invited to address the audience, and spoke
a few minutes in a happy vein and was heartily
applauded.
	Prest. Cluff made brief remarks, expressive
of friendship and union between the Territories.
	Speaker Sharp gave a few words of welcome
in a very happy manner.
	Hon. F. E. Warren, of Wyoming Council,
made a very interesting speech on pioneer life
and emigrant travel and other matters of that
kind, and after speaking of the great resources
of the two Territories, classed them as the two
greatest Territories in America.
	Hon. H. V. S. Groesback, of Wyoming, spoke,
and recited an original poem, which gave
a poetic idea of the desert transformed by labor
and toil into a land of wealth and civilization.
	Speehes were also made by Hon. A. L. Bab-
bit, Hon. H. E. Tischemacher, of Wyoming,
Hon. F. S. Richards and Hon. Abram Ha[-]ch,
of Utah.
	Hon. Mahlon Chance, of Ohio, made a very
amusing and elequent speech.
	Judge Emerson and Secretary Thomas [-]sch
made a few remarks, after which Hon. F. E. 
Warren spoke again upon the theme of Woman
Suffrage, which is exciting the attention of the
Assembly at Wyoming.
	Mr. Babbitt followed in a few remarks on the
same subject. Hon. Erastus Snow was called
upon as the greatest living pioneer of Utah, and
he gave a cursory review of what had transpired
in the history of this great Rocky Mountain re-
gion.
	Counselor Hammond moved to have 1,000
copies of the minutes of this joint session print-
ed for distribution.
	Session closed with benediction pronounced
by Dr. Rapter, of the Wyoming company.
	In the evening a grand civic ball was given in
the theatre in honor of the distingished visitors. It
was a very enjoyable affair, but the dancing was
the principal feature of the evening. An ele-
gant lunch was served in the building, and
everything passed off pleasantly. Prest. Taylor,
Mayor Jennings, and many other representa-
tive people were present, and participated in
the social festivities of the occasion.
	Saturday morning a reception was held at the
Gardo House, through the kindness of Prest.
Taylor, who arranged with the Wyoming party
to have the ladies of Utah and Wyoming meet
each other and have a few words together, and
patronize a little. Accordingly, about twenty
of the Utah ladies, and about the same number
of the Wyoming party, were introduced, and
had some little conversation on subjects of gen-
eral interact; mostly education and suffrage.
Among the ladies were Sisters E. R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne, Sophia
W. Taylor, Helen Mar Whitney, Emily Hill
Woodmansee, Emily H. Little, Amanda M. 
Cannon, Mary A. Taylor, Presendia L Kim-
ball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Maggie Y. Taylor
and several others. One interesting matter
talked of was women upon a jury; it is a sub-
ject that has been discussed pro and con more
than any other perhaps in connection with wo-
men having the franchise. Mrs. Martha Boyse,
of Laramie, related a circumstance of women on
a jury in a murder case. It was very new and 
to women who believe in political equality it is
the practical workings that give strength to 
convinctions.
	Mr. and Mrs. Mager informed us that in Car-
bon County they had a lady school superintend-
end, Mrs. Smith, who had given the most per-
fect satisfaction, ably and efficiently filling the
position. When she was nominated a man
was her oppenent, but the vote was carried by
[Column 3]
immense majority for the lady. It has been 
pretty well proven that there are some offices 
just as suitable for  ladies as for gentlemen.


