MY DEAREST MOTHER:
	John Q. received word from Prest. Smith to-
day to the effect that his release was recalled,
and that he was to remain here until the Presi-
dency at home should release him. President
Taylor sent a cablegram, stating that he regret-
ted the release; and preferred for him to remain;
so you see we are not to be with you so very
soon after all.
	When the release came it was wholy unex-
pected, and seemed then rather untimely, but
now John Q. has made every preparation to re-
turn, and we should have started Tuesday, and
our hopes were raised to the highest pitch, and
John Q. was just too happy for words to think
of being at home once more. You can well im-
agine how quickly our ardor cooled when to-
day's news arrived, but of course "what must
be, must be," and we will try and be content un-
til the proper time arrives for us to come. Per-
haps now John Q. can accomplish what he had
intended doing before being released, namely,
making a tour through all the conferences. Of
course I do not know, nor do I think he knows
yet himself.
	Bro. Schonfield is here, having come to pre-
side, and John Q. was handing everything over
to him, but this will all change now, too, I sup-
pose. If we were not too disapointed we might
have a hearty laugh at the predicament things
are in, or were this morning; it did'nt take John
Q. long to straighten matters though, and he is
now working away in the office as though his
release had never been thought of, notwith-
standing this morning THE STERN, with his

[Column 2]
farewell in, was all ready for the press, and he
had just time enough to stop its being print
ed.
	While we were in Munich we received three
excellent letters from you, and I know I ought
to have answered before, but I waited until I
had answered several other letters of less im-
portance, and had plenty of time to write you a
long letter, and now I am glad I waited, for had
I written before my letter would have been fil-
led with descriptions of our preparations to
leave, and plans for our journey.
	What you ask about the Relief Societies here
we had already intended doing, and will send
you a report as soon as possible. I think it will
be quite interesting to know of the societies in
this land. It has been more than interesting to
me to see and know the Saints here in their na-
tive country, and to become acqaainted with
their ways and habits. I see and realize now
their feelings when they go into a strange coun-
try, where everything is so very different from
what they had been used to. We have often
laughed at them for their awkwardness and
seeming ignorance, and I have now learned that
"they are not so green as they look." I can eas-
ily account for their tripping down the middle
of the street, for here, in Switzerland, the side-
walks are so narrow and so filled up with mer-
chandize that they have to take the middle of
the street or nothing. In Basal, and some other
places, there are raised and paved sidewalks only
wide enough for one foot at a time, and one has
to be an expert tight-rope walker to keep his
balance on such a place. Don't be surprised if
you see me strolling down the middle of the
street when I come home, staring with all my
might at the buildings; that's what I do here.
	I was greatly surprised and pained to hear of
the death of Sister Grossbeck, also Mary Young's;
how sudden they both seemed; I had not even
heard that they were sick, though of course I
knew Mrs. Young was in delicate health. Poor,
little Fanny, I think she is very much alone
now, but I suppose she will have much sym-
pathy, and it is likely she will not miss her
mother as much as Luella after all.
	The weather here has been too mild, I think,
for winter time, and there has been much sick-
ness around. Three of our Elders have been
very sick; one a Bro. Evans, from Lehi, so bad
that his release was recommended, and he was
taken to England. He has been getting better
there, and the last news we had was to the
effect that he might soon be able to resume his
labors in the field. His sickness was quite a
trial for him; he came when I did, and went
straight to Berlin. Bro. Pack left him there to
come to the Conference, and he was sick all the
time and among perfect strangers, and could not
speak a word of the language. Was not that a
sad experience for a young man? But he has
overcome it all after a severe struggle.
	While we were in Munich we went to several
Catholic Churches. 'Twas Sunday morning,
and our people have no meetings in that part, so
we thought we would see what kind of religion
the people of Munich had. The churches are
mostly very old, and look quite dilapidated on
the outside. but the interior is most beautifully
decorated. The first one we entered was the
St. Michaels, where the soldiers assembled for
worship. At each door stood a priest behind a
box, with some such inscription on it as "[-]etrus
pfennigs," and everyone was expected, of course,
to drop a piece of money in these boxes. Just
at the door was the fount of holy water, where
each one stopped, dipped in their fingers and
crossed themselves; then they all turned to
some image or picture, and bowed; all this was
done with haste, without the least sign of feel-
ing. There were many people coming in and

[Column 3]
going through these movements, adding a short
prayer and then leaving, all during the services.
The priest, in his long, white robe with a lace
ruffle round it, after bowing to several images,
and going through a routine of prayers, bows,
and other movements, at last reached the stand,
which protruded from the side wall about half
way down the church, and from there he stood
and preached his sermon.
	The next church was a smaller one, but more
elaborately decorated with frescoing than the
first, and the carved altars and fizures were very
beautiful, only they had a blue cloth dress over
the image of Mary, and one of the saints was
dressed in yellow. In this church they were
having "High Mass," and the music was very
beautiful. After the opening hymn, through a
curtained door came a priest, followed by a
youth with steaming incense, and then two
little boys with burning tapers; all were dressed
in the white robes. The priest looked wonder-
fully sober, and first he knelt in front of an al-
tar, then one of the boys brought a red scarf
with a cross on the back of it and spread it
across his shoulders; all the congregation then
knelt. After a while the priest arose, parted
some curtains over the altar and there crossed
himself with the water which was in a bowl un-
der a golden crucifix, he then proceeded to an-
other image and went through a similar process,
then reached an altar with Mary's image just
above; here everyone knelt again, and the red
scarf was taken off, and another put on, then
the incense was swung back and forth, the
choir sang and the priest read. This lasted some
time with an occasional change of scarf, and a
turn or two to the congregation. We stood this
as long as possible and then took our departure;
only think, mother, how this must have affected
me. I could not breathe freely until I reached
the street. It seemed to me that some dreadful
spirit was prevailing in there; it was certainly
not the pure, peaceful spirit that always abides
in places where I have been accustomed to wor-
ship. All around they bowed and bent and
prayed to images of gold and bronze and brass,
and begged their congregation for more help to
erect these inanimate objects, while at every
door stood ragged, sickly women or children,
begging alms from those who could liberally
give for building more images, but scorned the
poor, living creatures. Though I felt so disgust-
ed with these churches, still I had started out
to visit them, and so walked into the next one
we came to. This was the Church of the Thea-
tines. There were no particular services going
on in here, only the people were praying and
bowing, and the priests were collecting pfennigs.
In all these churches are fine frescoes and
paintings, and in this one are some by Tintor-
etto, Zanchi and others. This church contains
the Royal Vaults, and the Emperor Charles vii
reposes here.
	The finest of the old churches we visited was
the Frauenkirche, this is very full of figures and
is decorated almost too much; from the center
hangs a large crucifix. The principal object in
this place is the Monument of Emperor Louis,
the Bavarian, a catafalque in dark marble, with
decorations in bronze, and four knights at the
corners acting as guards to the tomb. On a pil-
lar is a Turkish flag, captured in 1688. The
prettiest church we were in was "The All
Saints' Church." This is the Court Chapel, and
is joined to the Palace. It is very small, but
exceedingly beautiful; the columns and walls
are made of variegated marble, and the frescoes
are all painted on a gold ground. The newest
and last church we were in was the Basilica.
This is also very beantiful and the frescoes were


done by He[-]s and his pupils, but it is too much
like the others for me to favor you with another
description. You no doubt have tired by this
time reading of churches, but I am very glad I
saw them and saw the services in them, for it
was only another lesson to me of the truth of
the Gospel and the false teachings of the world.
What is there in all this mockery that so many
thousands should be bound to it? I shuddered
as I left these places, and it took a long walk un-
der the bright, shining sky to relieve me of the
feelings of pain and dread that these sights had
brought upon me.
	What else we saw in Munich Belle's letter will
tell you, though it may not give much of a des-
cription of the sights I was so interested in I
enjoyed my visit there very much indeed.
	Give my love to father and all the folks, in
which John Q. joins me.	*	*	*	Re-
member me to all your lady friends, and thank
them for me for their kind remembrance.
	With the greatest love for you, my darling
mother—for my sisters, and our own precious
boy,
	I am as ever your loving daughter,
