VIENNA JAQUES.

	Another veterean has departed! one whose former life
was contemporary with the early history of the great
latter-day work.
	Sister Vienna Jacques, the subject of this obituary
article, who departed this life on the 6th of Feb., 1884,
was born in New Rowley, (now Georgetown) in the
State of Massachusetts, on the 10th day of June, 1787.
Almost a centennarian! She led an active and useful
life up to within a few years previous to her demise.
Coming to the city of Boston when she had reached
womanhood, in her self-reliant way, by patient toil and
strict economy, had accumlated considerable means for
those times. Always religiously inclined, she connect-
ed herself with the Bromfield Street M. E. Church in
that city. Feeling a lack In that communion to satisfy
the aspirations of her spiritual desires, she examined the
pretended claims of the most prominent religious sects
extant and failed to find in any of their powerless sys-
tems those gifts and graces which characterized the
primitive Church as recorded in the New Testament
Scriptures. Hearing of a Prophet who had risen up in
the then western wilds, and that he had published to the
world a sacred record containing the fulness of the Gos-
pel, she immediately sent for the book; having procured
the volume and cursorily glancing over its contents, not
comprehending at first its full purport, it was lain
aside. One evening (as she related) on returning home
from an evening meeting, she cogitated in her mind
what special subject should be selected for the theme of
her evening prayer. Suddenly on her way a vision of
the Book of Mormon was presented to her mind, and she
then resolved to ask the Lord to impress her in regard
to its truthfulness. She did so, and the consequence
was that after a careful perusal her mind was illumina-
ted to that degree that she was firmly convinced of its

[Column 2]
divine authenticity, and determined to make the jour-
ney to Kirtland, Ohio, which in those days of traveling
by stage coach and canal was an arduous undertaking;
but strong and concentrated in purpose, braving all
danger and trusting in the Almighty for protection, the
way was marvelously opened up, and she arrived safely
to the journey's end.
	At Kirtland, after receiving sufficient instructions
she was baptized. Made the acquaintance of the Proph-
et and returned to Boston—was the means of bringing
her aged mother into the Church, also her sister and
neices. She finally collected her means and gathered
with the Saints, and by her liberality rendered such pe-
cuniary assistance to the Church in its infancy that it
called forth the following revelation in Sec. 90, par. 28—
31:
	"28. And again, verily, I say unto you, it is my will
that my handmaid, Vienna Jaques, should receive mo-
ey to bear her expenses, and go up to the land of Zion.
	"29. And the residue of the money may be conse-
crated unto me, and she be rewarded in mine own due
time.
	"30. Verily, I say unto you, that it is meet in mine
eyes that she should go up to the land of Zion, and re-
ceive an inheritance from the hand of the Bishop,
	"31. That she may settle down in peace insomuch as
she is faithful, and not be idle in her days from hence-
forth."
	She received according to the above revelation her in-
heritance in Jackson Co.; passed through the early
trials and persecutions, and finally, with the exodus
from Nauvoo, drove her own team across the plains and
settled on the lot which was apportioned to her in the
12th Ward of this city; lived in her wagon the first win-
ter, and erected the house where she ended her days.
She was a person of marked individuality of character,
yet with all her peculiarity of temperament she was
true to her covenants and esteemed the restoration of
the Gospel as a priceless treasure. Her life was replete
with incidents which may be subsequently given in
greater detail.
	Toward the close of her life, owing to intense suffer-
ing consequent upon an accident and extreme old age,
her mental faculties were clouded and her speech quite
incoherent. Let us be charitable to the weakness of
frail mortality, remembering that

"He who knows our frame is just,
	Merciful, and compassionate,
	And full of sweet assurance
	And hope for all, the language is,
That He remembereth we are dust."
