CITY OF MEXICO, Oct. 13th, 1883.

	I have seen something of the world since
leaving home, its vanity, hypocrisy and infidel-
ity, and when I compare the condition of the
Saints with that of the people with whom I
come in contact every day, I cannot feel thank-
ful enough that the Lord led my parents to cast
their lot with that people despised of the world,
and that I have had strength thus far to follow
in their wake. I would rather be the most
humble Latter-day Saint with the blessings of
the Priesthood, and the hope which the Gospel
gives, than all the luxuries of life that wealth
and power can give without those blessings.
I can see no joy, no satisfaction, no security
outside of the Gospel the Lord has revealed to
us through the Prophet Joseph. His name is
had in reproach in all the world, even in this
benighted land, but though the world despise
him, and despise me for saying it, I glorify his
name and cherish his memory as one of the
greatest of God's prophets who ever lived upon
the earth, and anticipate with joy the day
when I shall, if I am faithful, see him in his
glory and exaltation far above those who now
malign him.

Oct. 16th, 1883.

	I waited at the post office last night until 12
o'clock, and was rewarded by receiving letters
from Libbie, Moroni and Brother Helaman
Pratt, and this morning from Brother Thatcher.
At 12 o'clock to-day I have a lesson to give,
and in the afternoon three others. I am very
thankful to receive letters, but it always
makes me homesick and lonesome to receive
letters from the folks.
	It seems that Satan has determined to do all
in his power to stay the progress of the work in
this land. Since the beginning of August we
have had much persecution and opposition to
contend with, but thanks to the Lord He has
given us strength also, equal to our day and
need, and I feel confident that He will contin-
ue to do so if we are faithful. Last Sunday
a man, who has tor some time attended our
meetings, applied for baptism, and yesterday
we complied with his wish. Several others
are in a fair way to join the Church soon, and
thus, through the blessings of heaven, we are
making some progress, while Satan howls. My
disposition is such that opposition seems only
to make me feel the more determined, through
the blessing of the Lord, to preach the Gospel
and warn the people, for I believe there are
many who would accept it were it not for their
ignorance of its principles and the instructions
of self-constituted priests and teachers, who
have taken upon themselves the right to teach
doctrines which they do not understand, and


thus they close the gates of heaven, so that
they nor those who would can enter.
	Give us the benefit of your faith and prayers.
Remember me to Sister Staines, Miss Mary
Cook, and any other inquiring friends. I sup-
pose cousin Heber is in Arizona, love to his
family and yourself.
			Your Nephew,
