[Vol22 | December 1935 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic PROVERBS 3:9-10 (For May, 1936): "Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of all thine increase. "So shall thy barns be filled with plenty." ?Proverbs 3:9-10.. "THE Scriptures are replete with the doctrine of tithing, and it is only natural that it should be emphasized in Proverbs?Solomon's chief contribution to the literature of the world. Tithing is older than Israel. It was practiced by Abraham, who paid tithes to Melchizedek. The payment of tithes was a prominent feature of the Mosaic law. Jacob's first contract after leaving his father's house was with God, with whom he covenanted at Bethel, saying, "And of all that Thou shalt give I will surely give a tenth unto Thee." Christ recognized and proved the law of tithing. (Matthew 23:23) This law was also known to the Nephites. The law of tithing has been re-established in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. (See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 119) Tithing is thus the law of God to man, and should be so regarded. To observe the law is to be obedient to our Heavenly Father, which always brings joy and satisfaction. The law contains promises of rewards and punishments. To those who make sacrifices in a righteous cause there are always personal blessings. To those who carefully plan their budgets and incomes there is naturally a development which is helpful financially, but the greatest blessing from the law of tithing is no doubt the satisfaction which comes from obedience to a law of the Lord. The following quotation from LESSON DEPARTMENT President Heber J. Grant sums up the blessings which come to 'those who observe this law: "The law of financial prosperity to the Latter-day Saints, under covenant with God, is to be an honest tithe-payer, and not to rob the Lord in tithes and offerings. Prosperity comes to those who observe the law of tithing; and when I say prosperity I am not thinking of it in terms of dollars and cents alone, although as a rule the Latter-day Saints who are the best tithe-payers are the most prosperous men financially; but what I count as real prosperity, as the one thing of all others that is of great value to every man and woman living, is the growth in the knowledge of God, and in a testimony, and in the power to live the Gospel and to inspire our families to do the same. 781
That is prosperity of the truest kind. I would rather die in poverty knowing that my family could testify that, to the best of the ability with which God has endowed me, I observed His laws and kept His commandments, and by my example, had proclaimed the Gospel, than to have all the wealth of the world." The mothers and the women of the Church generally can wield a great and powerful influence in supporting the law of tithing. The wife can help to make it easier for the family to meet this law, or she can, by indifference, make it harder.
Topics and Questions for Discussion 1.
Point out the blessings that follow honest tithe paying. 2. For what is tithing used? 3. How can the mother instil the law of tithing into her children? Literature (For Third Week in May) ADVENTURES IN READING A Woman's ADVENTURE "She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness."?Proverbs. MAN has always been a singer of songs, songs of his daring and conquests, songs of his loves and his joys, songs of the earth and its beauties, songs of life and its mysteries. His songs are strong and courageous and noble. Woman, too, is a singer. The beauty, the harmony, the glory of.
Things have been the burden of her songs.
With simplicity and delicacy she has expressed her aspirations, her emotions, and her desires; with tenderness, her mother-love; and with sincerity, her prayers. A Woman's Adventure Out of the glory that was Greece came Sappho, the first woman poetess, singing of love and the beauties of the earth, No woman's voice rose aloft to find recording out of Hebrew life with its intensity and divinity.
During the Middle Ages in many lands woman helped to sing the ballads of her people. Anne Bradstreet, the Puritan Poetess, lifted her voice in prophecy of woman's place in the world. The society of the eighteenth century made the drawing-room a woman's kingdom.
Barred from formal education she was cloistered in the home.
Governesses and tutors and later boarding schools provided a means of 782 education.
Culture or gentility implied the ability to speak French, a little musical ability, and some skill in needlework.
Individuality had little chance for growth.
Early in the nineteenth century the art of fiction was growing rapidly. The gothic romances of the past century were being replaced by Sir Walter Scott's tales of adventure.
Thackeray was writing satirical novels about the inconsistencies of society, while Dickens was writing humanitarian novels of its cruelties.
Into this masculine world of fiction came the Bronte sisters, and Jane Austin with a charm and dignity that pointed the way for a bounteous and worthy literary expression by their followers.
Today novels, essays, and poems by women rank in excellence with the best expression of the age. Jane Austin, Novelist A quiet uneventful life in the rectory drawing-room of her father at Steventon and Bath was Jane Austin's. The youngest of seven children, she received her education at home, she learned French and some Italian, sang a little, and became an expert needlewoman. Her reading extended little beyond that of Richardson, Cowper, and Dr. Johnson.
Apart from a few visits to London her life was most uneventful. Yet Jane Austin wrote half-a-dozen novels deemed by some to be as perfect as any in the language. The novels were written in the family sitting-room and were read aloud to the family circle.
Describing the life she knew best, her portrayals are marked by delicate delineation, lively dialogue, and quiet humor.
Jane herself speaks of "the little bit of Ivory" on which she worked. Her stories are marked with the exquisiteness of a fine miniature. The tribute paid by Sir Walter
Scott to Jane Austin is well known.
Also read again, and for the third time at least, Miss Austin's very finely written novel of 'Pride and Prejudice.' That young lady had a talent for describing the involvements and feelings and characters of ordinary life which is to me the most wonderful I ever met with. The Big Bow-wow strain I can do myself like any now going; but the exquisite.
Touch which renders ordinary, commonplace things and characters interesting, from the truth of the description and the sentiment, is denied to me." A simple story pays tribute as it offers an explanation of Jane Austin: An old verger of Winchester cathedral stopped a pilgrim to her grave and asked, "What was there particular, Sir, about Miss Austin, that so many people should visit her grave?" The answer given was, "She wrote honestly." The reader, however, must capture the charm of Jane Austin. It is to be obtained by a leisurely approach to the quiet culminations and her subtle wisdom. George Eliot, Macauley, Thackeray, Dickens, Tennyson, Longfellow, Sainte-Beuve, her contemporaries, paid tribute to the artistry and wisdom of Jane Austin.
Pride and Prejudice "It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife." To the Victorian household of Mr. Bennett, father of five grown-up daughters, whose proper " disposition in marriage was the chief concern of their mother, the advent in the community of a single man of fortune was of great importance. Jane, the eldest daughter, was a sweet-tempered, lovable girl. Elizabeth, the next in age, was attractive and lively, while Mary was plain and loved books. The two youngest girls were empty-headed and frivolous. The newcomer to Netherfield LESSON DEPARTMENT Park, Mr. Bingly, was the man of fortune.
Visits were exchanged and friendship established between the two households. The two sisters of Mr.
Bingly and their friend, Mr. Darcy, made life at Netherfield Park a round of pleasure. The interest of Bingly for Jane and Darcy for Elizabeth was soon very evident. At first Elizabeth experienced a strong aver" sion to Mr. Darcy.
During a short visit to Mr. Bingly, Jane was taken seriously ill. As she could not be removed from the Hall, Elizabeth was sent for to take care of her sister. The interest of Darcy in Elizabeth provoked the jealousy of Miss Bingly, whose interest in that young man was very evident.
Into the lives of the Bennetts came the Rev. Mr. Collins, whose patroness was Lady Catherine de Burgh.
Upon receiving a living, he had come to Mr. Bennett, his cousin, proposing to marry one of his daughters. Upon Jane's refusal to accept this offer, Elizabeth was approached. "Make her marry him," was Mrs. Bennett's plea to Mr. Bennett's chagrin, an interesting example of parental concern and showing the fashion of the time.
Another newcomer to the social life of the community was young Wickham, an unprincipled army officer, who because of his affability, became a great favorite.
When the Bingly household left for London, life became very dull for Jane and Elizabeth.
Later when Jane went to London she was keenly hurt by Miss Bingly's frigid manner.
Elizabeth went on a visit to the Rev.
Collins and his bride in Kent, and to her surprise found Lady Catherine to be the maternal aunt of Mr. Darcy.
When that young man arrived on a visit to his aunt, the pleasant friendship of Netherfield Park days was renewed. Jane, how783 ever, could not accept freely the friendship of Darcy because she felt his responsibility in the separation of Mr.
Bingly and Jane. To the disgrace of the Bennett family, Lydia, the youngest daughter, eloped with Captain Wickham. At first Lady Catherine was highly 'ncensed.
Affairs generally untangled themselves later, to Mrs. Bennett's delight. Mr.
Bingly and Jane settled at Netherfield, first and later moved to Derby-shire.
Darcy and Elizabeth were soon able to appease Lady Catherine and gain her goodwill, Mr.
Bennett missed his two daughters exceedingly but Jane and Elizabeth received his visits frequently.
Life went on pleasantly for all. Jane Austin today is adored by many, while others are piqued because they have not understood her charm. The Bronte Sisters?The Three Virgins of Haworth This story of the three gifted women, "The Three Virgins of Haworth," is of immortal interest. It is a drama as stark as the lonely Yorkshire moors of their home. The Reverend Bronte came to the parish of Haworth with a delicate wife and six children. The parsonage, now a shrine, overlooked the bare cemetery surrounding the little church.
Every horizon the children gazed upon was grey and forbidding. The philosophic father spent his time in his room in majestic solitude while his children huddled together alone.
Upon the death of the mother, eight-year-old Maria carried the burden of the family. Elizabeth, a year younger, helped to take care of the younger children, Charlotte, Emily and Anne. The only son of the family, Bramwell, was already a fiery lad at four years. 784
The lonely clergyman made several attempts to remarry, but in vain, so his aged spinster sister-in-law consented to become his housekeeper. Miss Bramwell began to convert the young savages by having them memorize Bible texts, do housework and endless polishing and cooking lessons.
Bramwell alone escaped the severe discipline.
There were no dolls or jackstones for brightness for the sisters. To do his duty by his children when they were old enough, the minister sent the girls to a cheap boarding school. The experiment at Cowan's Bridge School cost the lives of Maria and Elizabeth, by neglect and malnutrition. Next Charlotte and Emily were sent to another such school and later Anne also, this time without tragedy.
Already the genius of Bramwell was demanding expression as an artist.
Upon their return the girls spent many of their hours reading and writing. Later Charlotte obtained a position as a governess, but her interest was not in teaching.
After several unsuccessful attempts, a new outlet was found, Aunt Bramwell advanced the money for Charlotte to go to Brussels to attend the seminary school of Madame Heger.
Strange experiences awaited Charlotte and Emily Bronte abroad.
Emily refused to return a second year.
Charlotte returned to a life of persecution from Madame Heger who suspected that her husband's favorite pupil detracted from her own glory. Charlotte Bronte's return to Haworth was the occasion of much sorrow.
Bramwell was openly a profligate by now, the village inn his headquarters. The aged clergyman was nearing blindness. The three sisters together again, began to confide to each other their literary hopes.
They sampled their wares, chose the best, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and presented them to be published, under the title "Poems" by Currier, Ellis, and Acton Bell.
Then they waited, but in vain.
Instead of succumbing to discouragement, they tried again.
Three novels were finished and copied. 'The Professor," "Wuthering Heights," and ?Agnes Grey." The novels of Emily and Anne were accepted.
Charlotte rejoicing in the success of her sisters. The same night she began "Jane Eyre," a story which carried much of her own experiences, her childhood, her loneliness at Cowan's Bridge, her suffering as a governess, and the tragedy of Brussels. In a few days, the first edition of the novel was exhausted and "Mr. Curren Bell" was famous. The Reverend Bronte knew not that the fame given to Mr.
Bell belonged to his daughter. Bramwell Bronte's death now came as a relief to his family after his life of mistakes.
Again came separation, Emily also was to leave her sisters.
After her death a collection of poems was discovered.
Swinburne and Maeterlinck in turn accepted them as the work of a genius.
Charlotte now began to write "Shirley" while Anne completed "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall."
Exhausted by their efforts, the two sisters went to the seashore for a rest, Anne was particularly tired.
Without warning, Anne joined her mother and sisters.
Alone at Haworth rectory after these trying episodes, Charlotte began to write once more, and "Villete' was the result.
Charlotte was now thirty-eight. A new life began when she accepted the offer of her father's curate, Arthur Nicholls, and married. But Charlotte was very tired and just a few months of happiness were permitted her. The crypt of the little church of Haworth received her LESSON DEPARTMENT body and the tiny morsel of life that perished with her, March 31, 1855.
Today there are still pilgrimages to Haworth for the reputation of the Virgins of Haworth has brightened, not dimmed with the years. A New Testament if After nearly one hundred years another woman writes, Vera Brittan "A Testament of Youth." She is another woman adventurer as a singer of songs, a recorder of life. In an amazing autobiographical work, rich in color and swift in movement, we have the intimate record of an English girl's life as she emerged from school at the breaking of the World War. It was to a society not much changed from that of the Victorian Era that she came. To a round of drawing-room ftmnctions Vera Brittan came to be satiated quickly.
Finding her own way to Oxford University was the escape.
Then came the World War with nursing service in France and Malta crowded with experiences disillusioning as well as romantic. Her return to her native land after the War was to a new order of things. Marriage, authorship, and recognition followed quickly. Few women have had so much richness of living, and rare indeed is the experience accompanied by the superb ability to record it in prose and in verse. Women Singers of Today In a world marked by the conquests of science, industry, and wealth there is much of which to sing. New singers and new patterns are recording the newness of the world.
Never before has there been such a galaxy of women singers; Sara Teasdale, Margaret Wilkinson, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Margaret Widdemar, Katharine Lee Bates, Josephine Peabody, Aline Kilmer, 785
Anna Hempstead Branch and others.
Never have the themes been so varied; Shoes That Danced, A fternoons in April, Crack o' Dawn, Clouds and Cobblestones, Factories, Vigils.
Guide to Preparation 5 A.
Suggested topics for lesson assigtiments. 1. Woman's Contribution to Literature. 2. The Victorian Age. 3. Jane Austin, Novelist. 4. "Jane Eyre' and Charlotte Bronte. 5.
Selections from the poems of Emily Bronte. B.
Suggestions for lesson enrichment. 1.
Selections from the poems of women writers of today. 2.
Review of "The Testament of Youth."
Guide to Reading 1. "The Piper,"' Josephine Peabody. A beautiful drama using the legend of the Pied piper of Hamlin. For the family circle. 2. "Margaret Ogilvy." The lifestory of the beloved author of "Peter Pan," Sir James Barrie. 3. "The Life of Charlotte Bronte," Mrs. E. C. Gaskell.
This biography by a friend of the Bronte sisters has long been recognized as a great work. 4. "Her Son's Wife," Dorothy Canfield Fisher. A very human account of a woman's experience in trying to understand her son's wife, by a noted American novelist. 5. "Poems for a Little Girl," Hilda Conklin. A delightful series of poems for little girls and their mothers to read together.