[Vol22 | December 1935 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson Department]
Gone was my remembrance of the snowy trips and the extra labor that it takes to supply opportunity to others and I said in my heart, "It is pay enough." ?Linnie Fisher Robinson, Lesson Department (For First Week in May) Theology and Testimony Lesson VIII The Testimony of Martyrdom 1. A Life of Persecution.
From the time of the first vision to the martyrdom, the Prophet's life was characterized by almost continuous persecution and personal hardship.
Concerning the slander and oppression to which he was early subjected, he has this to say: "How very strange it was that an obscure boy of a little over fourteen years of age, and one, too, who was doomed to the necessity of obtaining a scanty maintenance by his daily labor, should be thought a character of sufficient importance to attract. The attention of the great ones of the most popular sects of the day, and in a manner to create in them a spirit of the most bitter persecution and reviling. But strange or not, so it was and it was often the cause of great sorrow to myself." 2. The Prophet then goes on to say that he himself felt much like Paul of old when he made his defence before King Agrippa and related the account of his vision. Concluding, the Prophet said: "So it was with me. I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation." (Pearl of Great Price, pp. 49, 50) 3.
Immediately after he received the plates, he was forced by his persecutors to move from Palmyra to Harmony.
Less than two years later he found it advisable to leave Harmony and take up his residence with the Whitmers at Fayette.
Shortly after the organization of the Church was effected, he was arrested and tried at Colesville.
Soon thereafter he moved from Fayette to Kirtland, then to the Johnson home at Hiram. At the latter place he was dragged from the house by ruffians, beaten into unconsciousness, and covered with tar and feathers.
Shortly thereafter the saints were expelled from Jackson county. The next year, under great physical hardship, he led Zion's Camp from Kirtland to Missouri.
Later he was forced to leave Kirtland and take up his abode among the stricken saints in Missouri.
Within the same year he was arrested and placed in Liberty jail. Here, under most trying conditions, he was incarcerated for nearly six months.
Meantime he received word that the saints, including his own wife and children, had been forced to leave Missouri under the exterminating order of Governor Boggs. The next spring he obtained his liberty and fled to Illinois.
Persecution soon followed. And shortly thereafter he was forced into hiding. He was exonerated by the courts, but repeatedly rearrested.
Then came the tragedy at Carthage.
Truly a life of hardship, persecution, sacrifice?martyrdom. 4.
Consideration for Others.
Even in his youth, the Prophet uttered no despairing word. His sole purpose was the accomplishment of the work which Deity had committed to his care. He was supremely happy in the performance of his duty.
Whenever he was forced to leave one place and flee to another, he did it with grace and seeming willingness of purpose. At the time of his excruciating physical agony at the Johnson home in Hiram, he thought only of the welfare of his stricken child, his wife, and others. He was forced to leave Kirtland under threats of violence, but he gave no sign of disappointment or selfish regret. The long days and cruel nights at Liberty jail witnessed no sign of remorse or complaint.
From his hiding places at Nauvoo came only messages of encouragement to those who had their liberty and were free to do as they chose.
Whenever the saints suffered, the Prophet suffered. He loved them more than he loved his life.
Thus when the fateful day came, he went knowingly to Carthage, that the cause of truth might go on. 5. Evidence Supreme. The early part of June, 1844, brought a series of most trying events to the Latter-day Saints. On the 7th of the month the "Nauvoo Expositor" made its appearance with a scurrilous attack upon the leading citizens of Nauvoo and the Prophet in particular. At a meeting of the city council held on the 10th of June, the "Expositor" was declared a public nuisance and the marshal was ordered to abate it. Accordingly, the press was Relief Society Magazine thrown into the street and all printed papers were destroyed. 6.
This action was seized upon by the enemies of the church and used to inflame the mobs to further violence. The Prophet was arrested, but promptly acquitted by the courts in Nauvoo. His enemies, however, demanded that he appear for trial in Carthage.
This he refused to do, knowing that his case would be decided by those who were altogether unfriendly. Moreover, he had already been tried and acquitted by the courts that had normal jurisdiction of his case. At this point, however, Governor Ford joined with the Prophet's enemies in demanding that he appear at Carthage. In fact, he wrote the Prophet to this effect, and promised him full military protection when he appeared. The Prophet, however, was doubtful of the Governor's sincerity, knowing from previous experience of his unfriendliness and duplicity. 7. In the early evening of June 22, 1844, the Prophet called a number of brethren into his room for council, consisting of the following: Hyrum Smith, Willard Richards, John Taylor, William W. Phelps, A. C. Hodge, John L. Butler, Alpheus Cutler, William Marks, and some others. He read the Governor's letter, and then remarked, "There is no mercy ? no mercy here."
After various opinions had been expressed, the Prophet's countenance lightened and he said: "The way is open. It is clear to my mind what to do. All they want is Hyrum and myself; then tell everybody to go about their business, and not to collect in groups, but to scatter about.
