[Vol22 | December 1935 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Not Bread Carroll]
Linda could see that his hands were gripping the steering wheel so hard his knuckles showed white under his brown skin.
They were turning a bend in the road and to her relief she caught a glimpse of the mail truck.
NOT BREAD ALONE
Mel slowed down. He drew the back of his hand quickly across his eyes and reached into his pocket. "Linda, if what you think is true about Ed—you'll need this." He placed a roll of bills in her lap and again stepped on the gas. "Mel—I couldn't—" He cut her short as he turned out of the road beside the mail truck. "Isn't Ed something to me, too?" he demanded gruffly. I was almost dark when Linda reached Mendon. As long as she lived she was never to forget that next half hour.
Years afterwards she used to wake suddenly in a cold sweat. In her sleep she had been entering again those heavy barred doors of a jail—of a jail—to see her son! She had been walking as in a hideous nightmare down dark, foul-smelling halls behind a man with a huge bunch of keys. She had been standing as in a trance while he fitted a key into a door which swung open revealing the white-faced figure slumped in the corner of a cell.
Over and over, first in her waking hours, later in those horrible dreams she had lived that scene. Eddie's stifled cry at sight of her; his cringing back from her first touch: his long, hard sobs as she had gathered him into her arms. He had little to say. 761 He couldn’t explain how he had come to do it. He had been going around with other boys who had money and there was a girl he was beginning to care for.
They had planned a farewell party for the last night of school. He had seen the other boy take the wallet from his pocket just before they had gone into the gym, and he knew that he left it in an open locker. It was only a matter of running out a moment into the locker room for a drink and slipping the money from one pair of trousers to another.
There was no excuse, he knew. She shouldn't have come. He wasn't worth her tears. All he wanted was to die. He could never rise above the disgrace. She must try to forget he was ever born and let him die of his shame.
Linda never remembered what she said to him. But she knew that she sat holding his head in her lap, swaying back and forth as if he were a baby, pouring her love over him, when the key again sounded in the heavy door. She remembered clinging to him, afraid the jailor had come to take her away, and then she had looked up and seen a kindly-faced man with a grey beard and understanding eyes. "I just heard what had happened to our boy," he said, "and came to help."
