[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Sum of Life Helen Kimball Orgill]
properly  function  in  the  life  of  the  child.  Sometimes  the  in- 
stitutions are  functioning  properly,  but  the  child  becomes  delin- 
quent because  of  phvsical  or  mental  defects,  which  he  has  inher- 
ited or  acquired.  So  it  is  said  that  delinquency  may  represent 
either  the  reaction  of  a  normal  child  to  disordered  social  condi- 
tions, or  the  reaction  of  a  disordered  child,  to  normal  social  con- 
ditions. The  problem  in  each  case  is  to  determine  whether  the 
child  itself  needs  attention  or  whether  the  child's  .environment 
needs  modification,  and  the  solution  comes  through  brino-in?  the 
child  back  to  normal,  if  possible,  or  in  adjusting  the  environment 
to  suit  the  child's  needs. 
THE   HOME  AS   A   FACTOR   IN   DELINQUENCY. 
The  home  is  the  oldest  of  the  social  institutions  and  at  one 
time  included  all  the  functions  which  are  now  exercised  by  the 
church,  the  school,  and  the  state  as  well.  It  is  the  foundation  on 
which  these  other  social  institutions  are  builded.  It  is  the  most 
important  of  the  social  institutions  in  training  the  child  in  sodal 
conduct,  because  the  child  is  under  its  influence  in  the  most 
impressionable  vears  of  its  life.  The  influence  of  the  home  is 
more  intimate  than  that  of  the  other  institutions.  The  failure  o^ 
the  home  to  properly  function  during  the  period  of  develooment  of 
the  child,  when  his  character  is  unstable,  often  results  in  the  de- 
velopment of  permanent  unsocial  or  delinnuenft  traits:.  The 
records  of  the  Juvenile  Court  of  Salt  Lake  Citv,  show  that  orac- 
tically  40  per  cent  of  the  children  before  the  court,  for  deb'n-

GUIDE  LESSONS  553 
quency  come  from  homes  where  the  parents  are  separated  or  di- 
vorced, or  one  or  both  of  the  parents  are  dead.  Doctor  Healey 
of  the  Baker  Foundation  of  Boston  in  the  study  of  1000  cases  of 
juvenile  delinquency  concluded  that  defective  home  conditions 
were  present  as  a  factor  in  causing  the  delinquency  in  65  per  cent 
of  the  cases.  The  defect  in  the  home  may  consist  not  only  in 
the  homes  being  broken,  but  also  by  reason  of  the  failure  of  the 
home  to  provide  the  ordinary  needs  of  life  in  the  way'  of  income, 
food,  shelter  and  clothing;  by  reason  of  bad  sanitary  and  health 
conditions  in  the  home ;  by  reason  of  extremely  crowded  condi- 
tions in  the  home ;  by  reason  of  a  lack  of  harmony,  moral  char- 
acter, religion  or  education  of  the  parents  ;  by  reason  of  the  failure 
of  the  parents  to  exercise  a  wise  or  fair  control  over  the  physical, 
mental  or  moral  welfare  of  the  child.  Thus  the  defect  may  be  in 
the  physical  or  the  spiritual  aspects  of  the  home,  and  to  the  ex- 
tent that  the  home  is  deficient  in  these  matters  to  that  extent  it 
is  likely  to  fail  in  its  function,  with  resulting  delinquency. 
In  order  to  carry  out  its  function  in  the  prevention  of  delin- 
quency the  home  should  teach  the  child  at  least  these  four  things : 
first,  love  and  s}"mpathy ;  secondly,  obedience ;  thirdly,  property 
rights ;  and  fourthly,  co-operation.  The  child  which  has  not  felt 
the  influence  of  love  and  sympathy  in  the  home  is  likely  to  obey 
anti-social  tendencies.  The  child  which  has  not  learned  to  obey 
parental  ahthority  is  likely  to  disobey  the  law  as  he  grows  older. 
The  child  who  has  not  learned  that  he  must  respect  the  property 
rights  of  his  brother  and  his  sister  and  leave  their  things  alone 
is  likely  to  be  found  engaged  in  petty  thievery  as  he  grows  older. 
If  the  lesson  of  co-operating  with  the  other  members  of  the  fam- 
ily is  not  learned  in  the  home  the  child  seldom  learns  to  co-operate 
successfully  with  his  fellows  in  the  community. 
The  law  of  our  State,  properly  places  the  responsibility  of 
controlling  the  conduct  of  children  under  18  years  of  age  on  the 
parent  and  holds  the  parent  criminally  responsible  for  wilfully 
or  negligently  failing  to  exercise  this  function.  If  the  parent  is 
unable  to  control  the  child  then  the  law  provides  for  relieving  the 
parent  of  the  duty  and  responsibility,  and  placing  the  child  in 
the  custody  and  control  of  the  State. 
THE  CHURCH  AND  THE  SCHOOL. 
The  church  and  the  school  supplement  the  work  of  the  home 
in  training  and  disciplining  the  child  for  social  life.  Delinquency 
often  commences  with  truancy  from  school,  and  truancy  may  be 
caused  by  a  bad  school  as  well  as  by  a  bad  boy.  Under  our  pres- 
ent school  law  which  makes  school  attendance  compulsory  up  to 
eighteen  years  of  age,  it  is  necessary  that  we  greatly  enlarge  the

554  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
vocational  aspects  of  our  education  in  order  that  we  may  adapt 
the  .school  to  the  needs  and  capabilities  of  the  child.  Special 
schools  and  classes  for  the  misfits  are  essential  if  the  schools  ful- 
fill the  obligation  which  they  have  undertaken  under  our  new 
compulsor>^  school  law.  The  church  likewise  often  fails  to  prop- 
erly function  in  the  case  of  the  misfits.  Our  Church  organization 
is  prepared  to  give  the  most  perfect  training  to  those  who  seek  it. 
But  we  often  fail  completely  to  reach  those  who  must  seriously 
need  the  influence  of  religion.  The  juvenile  court  records  show 
that  not  one  in  ten  who  come  before  the  court  is  an  active  church 
worker. 
THE    STATE    OR    COMMUNITY. 
The  two  chief  needs  of  the  community  in  order  that  it  may 
properly  function  in  preventing  juvenile  delinquency  are:  first, 
proper  vocational  help,  and  secondly,  attractive  and  supervised 
recreational  opportunities.  An  idle  brain  is  the  devil's  work  shop, 
yet  few  communities  make  any  concerted  effort  to  provide  em- 
ployment for  juveniles.  So  also  our  community  amusements 
have  become  largely  commercialized  and  are  not  always  there- 
fore of  the  most  wholesome  kind.  The  best  way  to  avoid  de- 
linquency is  to  provide  attractive  substitutes  for  delinquency.  The 
fact  that  in  the  State  of  Utah  last  year  over  9000  children  were 
brought  before  the  juvenile  courts  in  spite  of  the  training  of  par- 
ents, and  of  schools,  and  of  churches  and  the  prohibition  of  the 
law,  shows  that  delinquency  is  attractive.  It  can  not  be  cured 
simply  by  saying,  "Thou  shalt  not."  It  can  be  reduced  by  fur- 
nishing through  the  community  attractive  substitutes.  Vocational 
helps  and  good  clean  constructive  recreation  are  two  of  the  best 
substitutes  which  the  community  can  furnish, 
QUESTIONS. 
1.  In  what  ways  does  juvenile  delinquency  manifest  itself 
in  your  community? 
2.  Do  your  juvenile  delinquents  have  a  normal  home  life? 
3.  What  effect  do  bad. physical  conditions  in  the  home  have 
on  a  child?     Illustrate. 
4.  What  are  the  essential  conduct  lessons  the  home  should 
teach  the  child? 
5.  Is  the  juvenile  court  functioning  as  a  helpful  agency  in 
your  community?     If  not,  why? 
6.  What  duty  do  the  school  and  church  owe  the  delinquent  ? 
7.  Is  any  effort  made  in  your  community  to  provide  satis- 
factory employment  for  juveniles? 
8.  What  unwholesome  recreation  is  indulged  in  by  your 
children? 
9.  Are  attractive  substitutes  being  provided?

1!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII(IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'^ 
I  Are  You  a  Subscriber  to  the  Relief 
I  Society  Magazine? 
i  If  not  you  are  missing  an  opportunity  to  keep  in  touch  with  | 
I  Rehef  Society  work;  and  also  the  opportunity  to  help  solve  your  | 
I  Relief  Society  and  home  problems.  Send  your  subscription  to  | 
Relief  Society  Magazine  I 
I     29  Bishop's  Building  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah     | 
^^■HMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlnll^lllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIMIIIIMIIIIlnlMIIIIIII^IIIIIJIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllll>IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlH 
^MiiiiiMiniiiiiiiiriirriiiiiriiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiM^ 
Individual  Sacrament  Sets  Now  in  Stock 
I  Best  in  the  Market  | 
I  fFILL  LAST  A  LIFE  TIME— 36  GLASSES  IN  EACH  TRAY  I 
I               RECOMMENDED  BY  PATRONS.     REFERENCES  FURNISHED  | 
I            Made   especially   for   L.   D.   S.   Churches,   and   successfully   used    in   Utah  I 
I  and  Inter-mountain  region,  also  in  all  Missions  in  the  United  States,  Europe,  | 
I  and    Pacific   Islands.      Basic    metal.   Nickel    Silver,   heavily    plated    with    Solid  | 
I  Silver.  | 
I                                               SIMPLE,  SANITARY,  DURABLE  j 
I                          Satisfaction  guaranteed.       Inquiries  cheerfully  ansicered.  | 
I                                       THE  LATEST  ACKNOWLEDGMENT.  I 
I                                                                      Bishop's  Office,  Bern,  Idaho,  May  2,  1921.  | 
I              "I  am  in  receipt  of  the  Individual  Sacrament  Set,  consisting  of  four  trays  | 
I  and  the  proper  number  of  glasses.  I 
I              "Everything   arrived    in    good    condition.     We    are    very   pleased    with    it.  | 
I  I  take  this  occasion  to  thank  you  for  your  kindness."  I 
Bureau  of  Information 
I  Temple  Block                                                                                           Salt  Lake  City  | 
^1  1111111111111111111   tiiiiii   iiiiiiiiiiiiriiiii   niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiinii   iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiif