[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Sweet Singers of Zion Edith Ivins Lamoreaux]

Joseph, Arizona Sweet Singers of Zion Life Sketches of Emily Hill Woodmansee and Julia Hill Ivins. Edith Ivins Lamoreaux In the summer of 1849, two merry hearted girls might often be seen wending their way along the green lanes of England, from their home in Warmister to Chalford, six miles away. The "Mormon" elders were preaching a new religion at the latter place. In spite of the opposition of their parents who were strict adherents to the Wesleyan faith, these girls, Emily and Julia Hill, were determined to hear all about this "new faith" at any cost. Born in 1831 and 1834, the girls were inseparable, Julia was the eldest, but the message had come to her sister Emily first. Both were deeply religious, searching the scriptures together, and each yearning in her hungry soul for the fulfilment of the promise of the return of the everlasting gospel, as Jesus had taught it. When but twelve years of age, Emily had been permitted by her parents to go with her cousin Miriam Slade to hear the "Mormon" elders preach. To the surprise and dismay of her family she had boldly announced upon her return her belief in the doctrine taught, and her determination to be baptized when of age. Opposition surrounded her on every side, Julia being her only comfort and adviser. To her Emily confided and explained as best she could these wonderful "new truths." It was at this time Elder John Haliday visited their locality, and both girls by stealth managed to attend a private cottage meeting. Upon hearing his humble but impressive testimony, Julia exclaimed, "if ever there was a man of God, he is one, and I shall be a Latterday Saint." Emily's impression of that memorable meeting is given in her cwn poetic words: "The Eternal spoke, and honest hearts observing The voice and message of the Holiest One, © Hail it as if their hearts had e'en been yearning For light and truth e'en since their lives began." SWEET SINGERS OF ZION 563 It was at this time Elder Haliday gave Emily a blessing, promising her that she should yet write both prose and poetry, comforting the hearts of thousands. Soon after this Julia became apprenticed as a milliner at Northampton, and after much persuasion the parents consented for Emily to join her sister there. Together they searched for and found the branch of the Church which had been there established in the early 40's; they attended the sacrament meetings, and paid into the Church fund regularly from their scanty earnings. In March, 1852, both girls were baptized, Emily being but sixteen and Julia nineteen. Though young to decide for themselves in such an important step, the girls were amply able to conduct their lives with decorum, having left a home of culture and refinement, where faith in God and purity of life had always been taught. Four long years must elapse ere they could earn enough to come with other Saints to America. In May, 1856—always memorable to them—without even the privilege of an adieu to family and friends, since these were still bitterly opposed to their course, the girls set sail on the ship Thornton, with Elder James Willie in charge of the Saints who accompanied them. From New York they went by rail to Iowa City, where was organizéd the famous hand-cart company over which Elder Willie was made captain. The famous company EMILY HILL WOODM ANSEE JULIA HILL IVINS 
 that was to walk over one thousand miles—to Zion. A graphic description of this terrible journey, as penned by one of its band, John Chislett, is found in Whitney's History of Utah, Vol. I. Emily says in her memories that Julia, who was never very strong, "gave out," and was forced to ride part of the way in the little cart drawn by loving friends, who "took turns." But Emily, who always manifested an indomitable will, expressed her determination to '"'walk all the way," which she did. When cold weather came, with severe snow-storms and scarcity of food, the girls nearly perished with hunger and cold. But they pushed on, singing with the others each day that cheering song, "Come, come, ye Saints," upheld and sustained by the Power which had given them a testimony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Among those sent from Utah with provisions for the relief of these sufferers were Israel Ivins and W. G. Mills. Both girls must have admired these sturdy pioneers on sight, as they married them soon after entering the valley. With all the trials incident to the early days in Utah, Julia's marriage to Brother Ivins proved a very happy one. She often said she married her husband because of falling in love with his © first wife—'"Aunt Anna," as she was always lovingly called, who was the mother of President Anthony W. Ivins. In 1861, Julia with her husband and family, went south, in answer to the call of President Brigham Young to assist in the settlement of what is now known as Utah's Dixie. They traveled in an old prairie schooner making the road as they journeyed each day, only to meet the formidable sight of sunflowers and sage-brush upon their arrival. Theirs was the third wagon to "set camp" at St. George. Only those who endured the trials of that ''call" have language adequate to describe. It. But Julia was brave and cheerful as usual. She bore her husband eight children, four of whom died in infancy. Those who lived to maturity were indeed a comfort to her, reflecting the integrity and love of God, instilled into them early by their mother. The writer considers as her greatest legacy the promise of a patriarch, who in blessing her in girlhood said: "The faith of thy mother shall be in thee." Emily's choice in marriage was not such a happy one. After the birth of their first child. Brother Mills went on a mission to England. After four years of absence, during which Emily could scarcely keep starvation from their door, he sent her word he would never return, proving untrue to the faith. She says of this trial: "In the month of June, 1857, firmly believing in the principle of plural marriage, I entered into it. The result of this SWEET SINGERS OF ZION 7 a marriage was one child only, for a little more than three years after said marriage, my husband, William G. Mills, went on a mission to England; and after I had worked for upwards of four years to maintain myself and little one, my husband himself sent me word that he never intended to set foot in Utah again. And here I must be allowed to say in behalf of myself and other true women who have endured such separations, and to whom, perhaps, it is counted as nothing, no one can realize what such an ordeal is, unless they have passed through it. All that I had hitherto suffered seemed like child's play compared to being deserted by the one in whom [ had placed the utmost confidence, who himself had fixed an impassable gulf between us by ignoring the very principles by which he had obtained me, leaving myself and little one (for all he knew) to sorrow and destitution. Harder still, was it for me to believe that this abandonment had been deliberately planned. I could not accept the fact until President Young (speaking to me of my husband) emphatically said, 'Don't you know he asked for his mission? If he hadn't, I wouldn't have sent him till the day of his death!' That was enough for me, I comprehended all that it meant, and independent of Brigham Young's word I was forced to believe it. "T had striven hard to keep out of debt—determined to do my part as a missionary's wife, that whem my husband came back he might not be hampered on my account. Nevertheless, 'hard times' stared me in the face, and I was almost overwhelmed by circumstances beyond my control. During the winter season of 1863-4, (owing to the war and many circumstances combined) provisions and other necessaries commanded almost fabulous prices in Utah, and I could not see how I should ever be able to keep the wolf from the door. To add to my trouble, the house I occupied (and to which I had been led to believe I had some claim), was sold over my head, and thus I had the prospect of being homeless, at a time when rents were doubling and trebbling in price. One night when I was so weary with overwork and anxiety, pondering what to do, these words impressed me as if audibly spoken, 'Trust in God and thyself.' Instantly I arose and composed the following lines: "A precious boon! Is a friend indeed, Greet him as such when his face you see; But those who fail thee in time of need— Shun them as false friends should shunned be. They proffer this, and they promise that, But promise, also, is a doubtful elf. So would'st thou weather the storm of life— Trust thou in God! And thyself. 
 "Keep a brave heart, though the waves roll high! Let thine aim be trite as the magnet's steel; Look unto God! With a steadfast eye, And trust him always, in woe or weal, Man may deceive, but God is true; Mortals may pander to lover or pelf, Like "angel's visits" firm friends are few, Trust thou in God! And thyself. "Should friends, nor fortune, nor home be thine— Cringe not for this, nor beg for that; The earnest seekers will surely find Something to thoroughly labor at. 'Tis a cheering maxim to keep in view— That diligence leads to plenty's shelf; And whatsoever*thy hands pursue— Trust thou in God! And thyself. "What though thy flesh and thy strength should fail? Surely 'twere better to wear than rust; Than never to try, t'were better to die, In striving bravely to fill our trust; But fear not thou, for God is good— He is the giver of strength and wealth. When faithless feelings or friends intrude— Trust thou in God! And thyself." "Immediately after this my way was opened up before me, almost within the week I secured another home, which if nct very commodious had for me the satisfying charm of being m~ own." In May, 1864, she married Joseph H. Woodmansee, by whom she had eight children. Her life was full of trial, the support and rearing of her family devolving largely upon her mother wit, but she was always hopeful, her cheery smile impressing all her associates and friends. Her fearlessness and undaunted faith in God's goodness are manifest in all her poems and songs. Sister Woodmansee developed through her years of poverty a strong tendency toward business ability attained by but few women in Utah. President Heber J. Grant, who has always been one of her ardent admirers, tells a story of her thrift. To quote his own words:. "While sitting in the bank one day the Spirit whispered to me that Sister Emily H. Woodmansee was in financial need. I accordingly drew from my account at the bank $50 and proceeded with it to her home. On the way I debated whether I SWEET SINGERS OF ZION 567 should present this to her as a gift, or offer it to her as a loan. Fearing I might offend her, as I remembered her high spirit, I decided upon the latter course. As I shook hands with her I offered her the money as a loan, without interest, with promise never to accept it until she was in comfortable enough circumstances to return it of her own choice. "With tears in her eyes Sister Emily confessed that she and her family were almost destitute. Twenty-five dollars of it was immediately spent for provisions and coal. With the remaining twenty-five dollars she took an option on a piece of property. In thirty days she sold the property for $700. With this she bought and sold many other parcels of real estate, showing the keenest sagacity and wisdom in the business world It is needless to say the $50 was returned with thanks to me, and praises to God, for a true friend in her hour of need." The beauty of Emily's life and sacrifices is reflected as in a mirror in the songs which she wrote. WHY I WRITE How oft in darkness and in pain, When' weariress my soul oppressed, My muse has breathed some soothing strain, That lull'd me like a child to rest; Has sung of faith, and hope, and trust, Of patience and obedience, too, | Of providence forever just; Of God the good, the wise, the true; Has lured my soul to trust in him; Who ever' doeth all things right. So when I sought the shadows dim I nothing saw but wondrous light. In gratitude, I can but sing; For present peace, and sorrows fled; With the fond wish to comfort these Whose hearts may bleed as mine has bled, What though my lyre may never wake Creation with its matchless sound, Or thrill the world to ecstasy, Or strike the depths of love profound. 
 ' ) One aim shall still inspire my soul, One purpose shall the muse invite, One impulse shall my pen control, The wish, to onward help the right; To bless, indeed, a child of need, To help the weary soul along, To bid the humble heart God speed— Such is the purpose of my song. I care not for the critic's tongue, The sceptic's sneer or scorner's frown, An aim sincere, a conscience clear— The voice of truth will live them down. Some I have seen whose loftier muse, Reflected far their glowing light; Whose tuneful lays excited praise, And wreathed their brows with garlands bright. ~ Who, by some fatal impulse led, Fell, even like some brilliant star, From the lofty height of the infinite, Down where the depths of darkness are. Perhaps their talent worked their woe, Or proud ambition, who can tell, Its direful promptings once, we know, Led Satan and his hosts to hell. Grieved by their fate, my spirit cried: Is this the end of meteors bright? © God, forever be my guide, And lead me in the paths of right. For ever tune my simple lyre, In service of the humble, pure, For those who truly love the truth, And for its sake all things endure. And if my songs shall e'er impart Courage and hope to those in need, Or comfort one despairing heart,. I shall be recompensed indeed. Onan Emily H, Woodmansee SWEET SINGERS OF ZION 569 MY SISTER In loving remembrance of Julia Hill Ivins, suddenly called home, February 14, 1895. Two of a household band, Two in the flush of youth, Came hither from their home afar, Led Zionward by Faith's bright star, And love of God and truth. Boughs from a parent stem, By sacred kinship wed, Are parted—one of them Is left—and one is dead. Oe: Vainly I deemed thy death, Would yet be long deferred, But oh, my dear old life-long mate, I dreamt not we should separate Without one parting word. Ne'er did my heart foretell That death so soon would call And wrest thee from us all, Ere thou couldst say—''Farewell." * ke *K Hail, ransomed, cheery soul! Rescu'd from earthly bands, Uplifted from this world of ours, Thou art at home amid the flowers That bloom in fairer l@nds, Thou art at home, indeed, With friends beloved of yore, From all affliction freed, Where vexing cares are o'er. Restful the blissful change, Yet active thou wilt be, Thy useful efforts will not cease, Rather, love's labors will increase, And bring more joy to thee. Expanded by thy scope, Exalted is thy sphere, And yet, we fondly hope, Thou wilt at times be near. 
 Canst thou be mindful yet Of souls still tempest tossed, Still wrestling with Life's whirling tide, Weary of troubles multiplied, Of hopes so strangely crossed? Oh, if thou hast the power, Befriend us here below, Attend us in the hour When through death's vale we go! +) ince + Triumphant words, "Well done," For life long toil divine amends, Full compensation, true success, Comprising endless happiness, Shared with delightful friends, Yet O, this heavy day, In loneliness we bow, Lord! Be our present stay, Uphold and help us now! Emily Hill Woodmansee. BUSY DAYS Mrs. R. A. Madsen The days for canning fruit have come, The empty bottles stand in rows And beckon to you with a nod, "Come fill me up before it snows." And you answer them, "Of course, We'll fill you, every one; Bat ju: t you please remember We think it no jolly fun. "And don't you dare to fizz and spoil And waste our time and sweets, But just be ready when you're called To fill in with the meats. "For the school folks nearly eat a ton Of everything that's handy, So don't feel blue, for we need you To take the place of candy."