=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===

VOLUME VIII OCTOBER, 1921 NUMBER 10 The Sign of THE NECK OF GARMENTS 's The Si f | ] en o Quality | Ans Psard! | Comfort 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 erino wool, the garments you desire, select your t to us, i submitted upon request. Style We will Prepay all postage Price 90 Cotton, heavy wt, unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, &auze wt., bleached... 2.65 heavy weight... 4.95 65 Mercerized, It. We., bleached 3.75 05 ustralian wool, It. Wr 6.00 Pure Glove Silk... 12.00 BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recog. Nize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 The Columbia Grafonola is the only Phonograph which hag the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For thig Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay DeynesBrahe we (A "OLDER THAN The STATE OF UTAN? L PSEA DANES Pes CAPITAL '250, On, Have you a ring or pin with the Birthstone for October? If not, write or call on W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached) -.......-....-..----0.---$140 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached. 160 Medium weight, cotton... 122 Medium weight, bleached... 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.25 No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached..........$2.50 150 Extra white Meres.................. 3.00 110 Medium wool, mixed.............. 3.00 116 Heavy wool, mixed.................. 4.00 117 Snow White Silkaline.............. 3.40 118 All Merino Wool 5.50 MOVEL KNITTiNG WORKS 'No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so man, wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or d eap. Co-operata with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that meet the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking Alterations reasonable. 715 So. 8th E. Hy. 4152-W. Send your hemstitching, accordeon plaiting, buttons and dry cleaning by parcel post. Quick Service. I] Salt Lake's Leading Opticians LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
The Relief Society Magazine
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

CONTENTS OCTOBER, 1921
Relief Society Nurse Class Frontispiece
The Sum of Life Helen Kimball Orgill 555
Graduation Exercises Relief Society Nurse Class Amy Brown Lyman 557
Sweet Singers of Zion Edith Ivins Lamoreaux 562
The Wage of Sin Lucy Guyman 571
The New Circular 576
Beautiful Eyes Abbie R. Madsen 579
Out of the World G. Milton Babcock 580
In Memory of Utah's First School Teacher 586
The Revelation Hannah D. Tomsik 588
Excursion Salt Lake Temple workers 589
Relationship of the Child to the Temple Clara W. Beebe 593
Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman 595
World Happenings James H. Anderson 599
Editorial: Motives or Basis of Judgment 603
Guide Lessons for December 605

ADVERTISEMENT

An Exact Model Your Own Figure

Make your own Dress Form according to methods taught by the Agricultural Colleges and U. S. Dept. Of Agricultural Cooperating

THE LOUISE DRESS FORM SET
Contains all the necessary material
Price $1.00 postage fully prepaidTHE SUM OF LIFE
At times my life appears to be so futile; So different from what once I had desired, When in those days gone by with rose-hued day dreams, Of fame to come, my youthful soul was fired.
I thought to do so much, but in the planning Forgot the round of duties large and small, The daily grind, the tasks that bring no glory. Which rise before me as a circling wall.
Perhaps this life is like a wondrous fabric, Of intricate yet gorgeous-flower design, Each one must do a portion of the weaving, According to the plan of Will divine.
Then, 'tis for me to mar not this vast pattern, Nor doubt Eternal wisdom of the plan, Until at length, in deep relief completed, With eyes made bright life's picture I will scan.
Helen Kimball Orgill.
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS
Graduation Exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class Amy Brown Lyman. The graduation exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class were especially interesting this year, for this is the first class which has had opportunity to receive practical training and experience in a hospital. The women of this class will be known as Relief Society Nurses' Aids. The exercises were held in the parlors of the Relief Society on the evening of Monday, August 1, when the rooms were filled to overcrowding with the friends and admirers of the class and of the Relief Society. The members of the graduating class looked very charming in their blue and white striped gowns and snowy white bibs and aprons, as they sat in a semi-circle in the front of the hall, and later, as they received very graciously and gratefully their certificates from the General President of the Relief Society. President Clarissa S. Williams, who for years has been chairman of the Relief Socie

=== GENERAL BOARD ===

THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS: - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -. First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBISON:. - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN. - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs, Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna €oray, Organist

=== UNCOVERED TEXT ===

ty Nurse School, presided, and the following program was carried out: Hymn, 'Come, come ye Saints;"' opening prayer, Mrs. Elizabeth Crismon; solo, (selected), Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward; report, Mrs. Thea Drake; class song, class of '21; address, Superintendent B. F. Grant; "Has our course been worth while?" Mrs. Annie Nielson; duet, Mrs. M. Fisher and Miss V. Pratt; address, Dr. Samuel H. Allen; awarding of certifcates to graduates, President Clarissa S. Williams; benediction, President Rudger Clawson. In awarding the certificates to the class, President Williams reviewed briefly the history of nursing in the Relief Society. Yearly, for many years, classes similar to this, although usually much larger, have completed the course offered by the Relief 558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society, and have gone to their home wards where they have been a real blessing in the local communities. From the very beginning the General Board has made every effort to give the members of each nurse class an opportunity for practical experience in nursing as well as theory, and various arrangements have been made to this end. Some of the local doctors have from time to time permitted members of the class to assist in cases of illness, and the city board of health at one time allowed members of the class to accompany graduate nurses upon their visits to the sick. A room was finally fitted up in the Bishop's Building where practical demonstrations in nursing were carried on for the benefit of the class. But the class of 1921 is the first Relief Society class which has had the opportunity of going into a real hospital and of caring for the sick there, under the supervision cf trained nurses. When the General Board first made application to the L. D. S. Hospital for this institution to permit the Relief Society Class to enter there for practical training and experience, there was grave doubt in the minds of hospital authorities that-this special privilege could be granted the Relief Society without interfering seriously with the standards of the hospital training school and with the hospital itself. And indeed, there was cause for misgivings on the part of the authorities of the institution, for the granting of this request, they realized, was nothing more nor less than the introduction into the hospital of a one year course in nursing. It was finally decided that a Relief Society class might enter as a sort of experiment to be discontinued at the end of a year if the plan failed to work. The class entered, the members have made good, and the hospital has now decided that the Relief Society Hospital Course may continue. The members of the class have been housed in a cottage on the hospital grounds and have been under the charge of Mrs. Thea Drake, R. N., who has been their house mother, class teacher, and training supervisor. For the unprecedented opportunity given the Relief Society in its nursing program, the General Board is most grateful to the authorities of the hospital, to Superintendent B. F. Grant, who has so kindly permitted the innovation and put up with all of the inconveniences incident to it, and to Mrs. Thea Drake, hospital graduate nurse, who was willing to undertake the supervision of the work and to test out the experiment. President Williams explained that one of the requirements in the