[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: World Happenings James H. Anderson]

World Happenings James H. Anderson The Chinese rebellion continued in August, with frequent clashes between the contending forces. Enrico Caruso, the world's greatest tenor singer, died at Naples, Italy, August 2. Cholera is reported to have claimed 130,000 victims in Russia during the three months ending July 31. Ten earthquakes with resulting fatalities was the record in August, but none of them were extensive. E France and the Vitican at Rome resumed diplomatic relations on August 1, after years of estrangement. Idaho has bounteous crops of potatoes and wheat in 1921. Northern Utah is in a similar situation. Jews left Russia in large numbers in August, going into Germany. Many of them wish to reach America. Hungary and Austria had a clash at arms over territory, in August, and only the poverty of both prevents open warfare. Guatemala had a considerable insurrection, in August, and the government is having much trouble in restoring order. Americans in Russia were released, in August, on condition that the Americans help feed the starving Russians. The United States' treaty of peace with Germany was signed, on August 25, and that with Hungary on August 29. Women in Great Britain outnumber the men by over 2,000,- 000—a fact which has raised a serious social question there. Jugo-Slavs and Albanians engaged in fierce battles in August, some 30 Albanian villages being destroyed. 600 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In British India, in August, the native uprising cost the lives of more than 100 British soldiers and over 2,000 natives. Two hundred American families from western United States established themselves at the headquarters of the Amazon river, northern Peru, during the first seven months of 1921. _ Mathias Erzberger, former German chancellor, was assassinated in Germany, on August 26, causing much disturbance and nearly the overthrow of the German government. The Los Angeles Limited, a fast transcontinental train, was entered by bandits on August 31, between Salt Lake City and Ogden, Utah, and the passengers robbed. Greek troops won two significant victories over the Turkish nationalist armies in August, and gained virtual control of the territory east of Constantinople, as they previously possessed it west of the Bosphorus. » In Russia, according to reliable reports, 20,000,000 people were on the verge of starvation in August, and the United States, Great Britain, and other countries, joined in giving partial relief. Knights of Columbus delegates to the number of approximately 20,000 met in international convention in San Francisco on August 2—this indicating the vastness of that organization. The Polish government made extensive preparations in August for the invasion of Silesia, in the event that the league of nations commission does not decide the boundary dispute favorable to Poland. Roumania has massed troops on the Russian border, and the Soviet government of Russia massed large bodies of troops in August, claiming the purpose was to repel a Roumanian invasion. "Mormons" are now sending missionaries to Mexico, and on August 27 Professor Booth of Provo, was released from school _ duties to go on a mission to Asia Minor, including Palestine, which now has religious freedom. Mrs. William Adams of Bogalusa, Louisiana, has twin midgets, Billie, who weighed 11 ounces at birth, and Jack, who weighed 17 ounces. Both seem healthy. Six other children are of normal weight and size. WORLD HAPPENINGS 599 An Anglo-American treaty was suggested by leading American and British statesmen in August, as the only hope for a reasonable amount of world peace in the future. Viscount Bryce, famous English statesman, in an address at Williams College, Massachusetts, in August, declared that the Versailles league of nations treaty "sows seeds of future warfare, and receives in Europe nothing but censure." Storms, consisting of cloudbursts, electrical storms, etc., in August, visited Price and Cedar City, Utah, Phoenix, Arizona, Hatch, New Mexico, the Arkansas valley, Colorado, and other places in the western part of the United States, destroying much property. Spain has serious trouble in Morocco with its African subjects. The Spaniards were defeated in several battles in August, and the natives are endeavoring to set up a Moroccan empire in Northern Africa. Other nations having African possessions are keenly interested in these events. James M. Beck, solicitor-general of the United States, in an address before the American Bar Association, on August 31, declared that at the present time there is a general world revolt. Against purity of standards in personal, industrial, and political life. "As in the days of Noah." Senator Smoot of Utah is urging a simplified revenue law for the United States government, reducing the great number of government employees. The New York World says the Senator is one of very few legislators who dare to speak out for real national economy. _ President Harding uttered a significant truth at the opening of the fall term of the War College, at Washington, D. C., on September 1, when he said, "the trouble with the world today is that there are too many theorists who know nothing about actualities, yet who are endeavoring to regulate world affairs." The conference on the limitation of armaments in Washington, in November, is not expected to be productive of permanent peace, so President Harding stated in an address on September 1. He says a world permanent peace seems far off, but that the costly burden of big armaments may be materially reduced. 602 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Civil War raged in West Virginia, U. S. A., the last week in August and the first week in September, the United Mine Workers' union, which is out on strike, furnishing some thousands of armed men who opened hostilities. The President of the United States issued a proclamation calling on the invading miners to disperse, but they refused, and Federal troops had to be brought into action. The casualties were heavy before the President interfered to protect the people. The ZR-2, largest dirigible airship ever built, and constructed in England by contract under President Wilson, started on August 23, on a trial trip preparatory to being turned over to the United States government. On August 24 it parted in the middle, at an altitude of about 3,500 feet, crashing into the Humber river, at Hull, England; 27 English and 16 American officers and men were hurled to their death. The seventh annual intermountain convention of Christian Workers, as they term themselves, and consisting of representatives of several religious denominations, met in Salt Lake City, Utah, the week of August 29. The "Mormons" were denounced by some and defended by others.