[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Out of the World G. Milton Babcock]

Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock (Continued) "Walter, I feel as if I could almost say that I, too, know that 'Mormonism' is true. I'm worried, though, how the folks will take it. I don't know as they have ever heard anything par-~ ticularly about it. I suppose I would have to bear the same kind of persecution as you; it seems to be the lot of a true follower of Christ. It must be hard, though, to have one's folks turn against you." "Yes, it is hard to bear persecution," agreed Walter; "but I've always kept in mind what Sister Guiles told me when T was first studying the gospel. She said: 'Walter, whatever you do, never hide your candle under a bushel. I don't mean by that that you need to be boastful or to force your belief onto another, but never be ashamed of the gospel of Christ.' She told me that she had had mobs gather outside her door, and had been scorned and abused by different people, but never had she hesitated in acknowledging that she was a 'Mormon.' I have tried to follow her advice, Elizabeth. I believe that all the world respects a person who has the courage of his convictions. 'No one will dare jostle you on the road if you know where you're bound for, is what Uncle Billy used to say; 'but if you're zigzagin' along, first thing you know someone'll lock a hub in your wheel!' " "Say, Lizzie," greeted Dorothy Nelson reproachfully as they came in the door, "it's a wonder you wouldn't. Notice a person when you drive by. I stood on the front porch and yelled my head off, but you went by as if the Old Nick was after you.' "It wasn't her fault, Dorothy," interposed Walter, com to the rescue. "I was in a hurry to get to meeting— "Ahem! Warned Elizabeth, but it was too late. "What meeting was that?" inquired Mrs. Nelson sharply, noting the interruption. "Oh, just a little meeting at the Guiles',' Walter answered, endeavoring to assume an indifferent attitude. "What kind of a meeting was it?" she persisted. "It was a little meeting of some of the members of Walt. Er's church, and I went along for a ride," explained Elizabeth. "T thought he went to the Episcopal church," observed Dorothy. "TI don't see why they should be holding a meeting in a house when they have a nice church up there.". Elizabeth looked at Walter helplessly. He determined to OUT OF THE WORLD 581 avoid the issue no longer—come what would. "Have you ever heard of the 'Mormons?' " he inquired. "Mormons!" exclaimed Mrs. Nelson stridently. "Good gracious! You don't mean to say that you are a 'Mormon?' If you think for one minute that you're going to lure my girls into that Church, you're grandly mistaken." "Hello, what kind of a succotash is this?" inquired Mr. Nelson as he came in the door and noisily stamped the snow from his feet. 'How are ye, Walter?" he greeted. "Why, papa, mother's scolding Walter because he goes te the 'Mormon' Church," attempted Elizabeth, indignant tears in her eyes. "That'll dg!' cried her mother. "I know what's best for you. Don't you ever dare to go to another meeting of that kind as long as you live!" she commanded, "Humph! This is a funny state of affairs," remarked the father. 'Mormons,' eh? Well, I've heard tell of them—a lot of hard things, too; but I believe in bein' fair and hearing both sides. Come, mother, cool off, and let's have some supper," he persuaded as she started into the kitchen. "You and I will confab about this later, Walter, if you don't mind." "T can't stay long, Uncle John. All I can say is that my conscience is perfectly clear, and I think I know what I'm doing. I don't wonder at Aunt Frances being so vexed—most people usually are because they've never heard the 'Mormon' side of it. I'm sorry she feels that way about it, though, and guess it would be better for me to go," he concluded somewhat independently. "You needn't be in a sweat about goin' back to Hudson View tonight," soothed his uncle. "I've got some news for you; you just stay where you are and I'll fix things up with the old lady," he grinned. A tense atmosphere overshadowed the supper table and Walter was heartily glad when the meal was over and the a ''- journed to the parlor with his uncle. "Now, Walter," began the latter, "tell me about this newfangled religion you've got into. Mind you, I don't bank much on churches myself—I believe as I want to and allow the other fellow to do the same. Tell me how you come to get hitched to these 'Mormons.' " Thus encouraged and reassured Walter plunged eagerly into his story. His uncle listened intently, interruptsng occasionally with a question, and when Walter had concluded, he said by way cf comment: "T don't see whv you shouldn't change your religious belief if you want to. Religion ought to develop and progress as we'l 
 as anything else. People who do old things in a new way are always ridiculed and persecuted at first. Changes come about, as a rule, by the efforts of a few, and from what you say, Joseph Smith must have been far in advance of his time." "Yes, but he did not introduce anything really new," objected Waiter mildly. "Fiddlesticks! That's what they all say—that theirs is the 'old time religion," averred the host. "Changing the subject: I told you I had some news for you. The men at Hudson View went out on strike today, and we expect to go out here this week in sympathy!" Walter was astonished. "What are they striking for?" he asked incredulously. "A ten per cent increase in wages. You know the average mill-worker gets $1.08 for nine hours' work, and goodness knows, that isn't enough for a man to get along on these days. Talking about religion though, reminds me of what I heard a sureenough minister say once: "You can't make a man's soul responsible before the judgment and deny him his rights on earth. If you preach salvation on Sunday you must fight for human rights on Monday, or be a hypocrite. You can't make men precious to God in the Church and make them cheap on the street and in the factory.' "There's our superintendent—he says he wouldn't give the men a cent more if they were starving—says half of them don't earn what they get as it is. He is careful to draw his fat envelope every Saturday night, though; and on Sunday he goes to the Methodist church, and I've heard him myself—I used to go to that church, you know—get up in experience meeting and tell how God loves the poor sinner; but during the week, if the men ask for higher wages or better working conditions, he spurns them. He urges people to appeal to God for relief, but he himself will grant none!" "Well, that's one thing about the 'Mormon' Church," observed Walter; "it's a seven-day religion, and teaches that the best way to show our love to God is to show it toward our fellow man. They try to look after their poor by what they ca'l 'fast offerings.' Once a month they fast and give the money saved to the Church for the benefit of the poor. This does away with poorhouses—so the missionaries tell me—and protects especially the widows and children." "Ves, but what do they do toward bettering the condition of the poor permanently—by securing them steady work, living wages, and decent houses to live in? Probably nothing; and that's the trouble with all your churches—they are always harping about the beautiful world beyond and the heavenly joys the OUT OF THE WORLD 583 people will have there—or the sizzlings and fryings, one or the other—while they wink the eye at the lack of justice and mercy here. They are ever trying to feed the spiritual nature, while the pangs of hunger are gnawing at a man's vitals. They. Hold out beautiful mansions above, while people are forced to live in wretched hovels here. They have withdrawn themselves into their shells, like turtles; but the world, through the discoveries of science, has gone on without them. Christ sure had the right idea: when he got through feeding the spiritual food, he called for some barley loaves and fishes! "There's the clock striking nine now," he broke off. "It's too late for you to start out tonight. The horses are safe in my "Yes, I guess Ill stay," decided Walter with a yawn. Shed, and you'd better stay here and go in the morning." "Good night, boy; I'll call you early in the morning." XII. Before daylight the next morning Walter started for home. As he neared the foothills, the beautiful, star-shaped crystals began to fall, lodging on every branch and twig and fashioning rope-like wreaths and garlands in the wildwood. Walter tucked the great Buffalo tighter around him and pulled his fur cap down. It wasn't long before he looked like a great snow-man driving, with feathery reins, two hoary steeds that bounded forward with the tinkling of silvery bells. As he neared Hudson View, two men stepped out and hailed him. They were pickets on the watch for strike-breakers, but upon learning who Walter was they allowed him to pass. Walter soon turned the horses over to the livery, and, after stopping at the house for a moment and greeting his mother, started for the office. As he neared, he noticed groups of men standing about—strikers discussing the turn of affairs. He attempted to enter the office, but was halted by a guard who demanded his pass. Walter explained his identity, but the guard was obdurate. The difficulty was settled by Walter suggesting that the chief clerk be called to identify him, which was done. He had hardly reached the inside of the building when the chief clerk broke into a tirade of abuse such as Walter had never before experienced. The actions of the men had evidently worked him up to the highest pitch. "Nelson!" he thundered, "if you calculate to stay in this office, you've got to stop handin' about these d 'Mormon' books. This town ain't gonna stand for it, and I won't either. I ". "Why, Mr. Bryan, I haven't been distributing any tracts— 
 only to friends who wanted them. I don't see why I should not have the right to do as I like about it," replied Walter spiritedly. "You'll find out whether you'll do as you like about it! The men had a mass meeting last night, and your case came up. They said if you didn't cut it out they'd tar and feather you and kick you out of town. I give you fair warning—you'd better stop it. Git to your work now!" Walter flushed hotly and would have replied, but he realized that Bryan was laboring under great excitement, as it was well understood he was a radical anti-union man whom the strikers cai be more likely to drive from the community than anyone else. Not a wheel turned in the mill—the tie-up was complete. The superintendent kept Walter rushing all day writing letters to the New York headquarters explaining the situation and confirming his telegram asking for special guards to protect the plant, adding that, though the town was now quiet, there was no telling what would happen when they attempted to import strikebreakers. Walter learned thus from the "inside" that the company had known for some time of the union agitation in the plant, and as a result of information gathered through spies sent to work in the mill, a number of the agitators had been discharged. This was usually accomplished by the use of a "blue envelope" instead of the usual white one on payday. No warning whatever was given the unfortunate victim of the corporation's resentment—the color of blue was the first and only notification, and, as might be expected, the recipient often "saw red." This was what had happened to Larry Connor, a strapping fellow who was generally recognized as the best paper-maker in the mill. He at least had charge of "number one" machine, the largest of the nine. The officials had known of his union agitation for some time, but they hesitated to "blue-envelope" this fearless, rugged Irishman. However, the previous Saturday a blue envelope had finally been handed him, When the new shift was due to come on at eleven o'clock that night, not a man showed up for work on number one machine. The superintendent attempted to switch men from the other machines, but this only served to spread the disaffection, and when the shift came off at seven o'clock Sunday morning, the plant was compelled to completely close down. Scarcely a man was loyal to the company, Walter's "Quote Bible by the yard" friend, John Perkins, being about the only man of importance to remain, which surprised Welter greatly.; Walter had been in bed but a few hours Tuesday night when he was awakened by the clanging of bells, the firing of guns of all descriptions, and the general noise of men shouting and e OUT. OF THE WORLD 585 running down the street with dogs yelping at their heels. From his point of view at the bay window, he saw cows gather at the railroad crossing just a few rods away. Soon he realized the cause of all the excitement, for down the track and across the great wooden trestle nearby came a darkenec train bearing the first shipment of strike~-breakers from New York City. Walter had heard they were on the way and that the company would attempt to run them in under cover of darkness, hoping to get them by before the strikers could be aroused. The attempt, evidently, was not to succeed, for the train had gone by but a few minutes when scattered firing broke out and soon a 'heavy explosion took place. Shortly afterward the outfit came limping back, and Walter could see by the light of the street lamp that nearly every window in the coaches was broken, and the rear platform of one of the cars was completely smashed. The train had hardly crossed the great wooden trestle when the structure burst into flames. The strikers afterward claimed that the fire was due to hot coals dropping from the engine. In any event, they cooperated with the village fire department, composed mostly of strikers, in subduing the flames. Extensive repairs would have to be made, however, before the trestle, which was owned by the paper company, would be ready for use again, and it was with a feeling of satisfaction that this method of running in scabs would be cut of for a time, at least, that most of the men scattered to their homes. However, Walter saw with alarm a crowd gather in front of the house, and his anxiety was increased when he heard one say, "He lives'upstairs." He felt, at first, that it was because the office force had failed to go out though one of the former employees had told him that the union wanted the office men to stay on the job so when the strike was won, operations could be immediately resumed... Walter had a sympathy for the workers— more of an instinctive feeling than otherwise, for he had known and himself felt the pangs of hunger. However, the next remark from the street enlightened him as to the cause of the gathering: "Come down here, you dirty 'Mormon;' we've got a nice coat of tar and feathers for you!" A general chorus of guffaws followed, and Walter hastily retreated from the window and finished dressing. His mother was greatly excited and pleaded with him to escape through the back window onto the roof of the landlord's kitchen. "No, mother; I'll talk to them, I think I recognize a voice im the crowd," he determined resolutely.? (To be continued.)