[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: In Memory of Utah's First School Teacher]

In Memory of Utah's First School Teacher Prompted by a desire, that "Service" should be rewarded in a durable manner, Mr. Philip L. Orth and his wife (Sarah Schow Orth) proposed that a Bronze Tablet be erected to the memory of Mrs. Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond. Miss Mary J. Dilworth arrived in Salt Lake Valley with the second company of Pioneers, in September, 1847, And in the following October, she assembled the few children that were with the Pioneers and held school, teaching in a tent. This was the first effort in teaching that is recorded in the Territory of Utah, and was the first stone in the foundation of the present magnificent school system of which Utah is proud. MONUMENT, HUNTSVILLE. UTAH'S FIRST SCHOOL TEACHER 587 Miss Dilworth married Elder Francis A. Hammond, and after performing a mission with her husband to the Sandwich Islands, they settled in Huntsville, in 1865, where Elder Hammond was later ordained bishop. She was an active worker, both religiously and in civic affairs in the young ward, holding the office of president of the Relief Society, being the first sister to hold that office in the ward. She died in Huntsville, in 1877, and her body was the first interred in the present cemetery. The proposition for a monument was presented to Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve, who heartily endorsed it, and used his good offices in its promotion. To take charge of the erection of the monument, Bishop Joseph L, Petersen selected as a committee to find a suitable rock, Philip L. Orth, Peter H. Olsen, Jr., and Arthur Grow; and as a committee to prepare the design and inscription, President Thomas E. McKay, Architect S. T. Whitaker, Mrs. Amelia Grow, Philip L. Orth, and Peter M. Jensen. The Committee found a rock on the mountain side near the mouth of South Fork canyon, and its conditions and dimensions, are as nature designed, unhewn by human hands. It is of sedimentary sandstone formation (probably converted by metamorphic action into a quartzite), eight feet nine inches long, two feet eight inches wide, with an average thickness of ten inches. In contemplating the monument it is wonderful what a beautiful rock it is, pink color, smooth surface, the dark vein running through it, and withall without a blemish, check or seam. It is a slab that will endure for ages. MAYBELL HAMMOND FIELDING ANN D. GROESBECK. 
 It is placed on the school campus in a concrete base, 41 inches by 62 inches and three feet deep, and is over seven feet above the surface of the lawn. It stands as a token for service. The monu-® ment was unveiled at the homecoming celebration, held in Huntsville some three years ago; the late Elder Fletcher B. Hammond, then her oldest living son, was present at the ceremony. The cut of the monument and inscription follow: In Honor Of The First School Teacher in Utah Mrs. Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond Taught First School in Salt Lake City, October, 1847 Came to Huntsville with her husband, Bishop Francis A. Hammond, 1865 Where she resided until her death 1877 Utah's First Free School Was Established at Huntsville.