(Concluded from page 23, No. 3, Vol. 39.)
	Not long after the death of the Prophet
Joseph, we left Nauvoo, since so many of
the leaders were being hunted and molested,
and with a party composed of the following
persons: Apostle Heber C. Kimball with
his family and myself. There was also a
number of the twelve with their families.
We moved across the Mississippi river and
encamped on a stream called Sugar Creek.
remained there about two weeks, but on
account of the cold and stormy weather, I
was taken sick and Brother Kimball advised
me to return to Nauvoo, and come on later
with my parents. The following spring of
1845, we started from Nauvoo, and traveled
as far as Council Bluffs with Vincent Shurt-
liff and his family. Leaving the last named
party at Council Bluffs, we continued our
journey to Punkau, a little Indian encamp-
ment, and the season being quite far ad-
vanced, it was deemed advisable to remain
there during the winter. My parents suf-
fered many privations and trials, but the
Indians appeared to be peaceable, and the
Saints in the party were very kind to us,
especially to my mother, whose health was
quite poor during that trying winter. One
instance, I remember well, of that severe
season: Our brethren had stacked all their
hay about the log fortification which had
been erected for our protection, when one
beautiful night the prairie became suddenly
ablaze with fire, from some cause, we knew
not what, and the flames were rushing
directly for our haystacks, which were in
a straight path for them. In case the stacks
caught, our fortification would surely go,
when through the mercy of the Lord, the
wind died down and the fire subsided, leav-
ing us safe, and our hay stacks unharmed.
Kegs of powder and other inflammable ma-
terial in the camp were pitched into a
stream called Running Water, in order to
protect the travelers that night from the
fury of a prairie fire. All material in the
rooms of the fort that was likely to burn
that night, was moved to a place of safety.
it is needless to say that the women and
children were frightened and had it not
been for my mother, who was acting as a
nurse, some of the women would have com-
mitted themselves to the rushing waters v
when the fire raged on the prairie. We left
Punkau, going to St. Joe in Missouri, to
get our outfit for the journey. Previous
to our going there, my brother, Alfred N.
Billings, went to St. Louis to work to earn
money for the purchase of our supplies, and
my mother was able to trade in St. Louis
for articles from the money which was due
my brother. This purchase was in cloth-
ing. He followed us to the valley the year
after we reached here. Mr. Warner, whom
I afterward married, was a carpenter and
he took contracts from the Indians in and
about St. Joe, to put up buildings for them.
This money was used in the purchase of
many of our supplies, especially wagons,
carts and provisions. We had a very good
outfit, so we did not suffer much on the
journey. Mr. Warner boarded with us
while crossing the plains. In the spring of
1847, we bade farewell to St. Joe, and pro-
ceeded to Winter Quarters, where we joined
the different companies of Saints. The first
company of pioneers was making active
preparations at that time to cross the plains,
and my brother, George P. Billings, was


[Column 1]
one of the early pioneers to cross the desert
with Brother Kimball. My brother came
back to Winter Quarters with Brother Brig-
ham Young and Brother Heber Kimball,
and in the spring my father, mother, my
brother, George P. Billings, Mr. Warner
and myself started for the Rocky Moun-
tains. My brother was not with us all the
time, since it was necessary for him to
drive Helen Mar Whitney’s carriage most
of the way. She was not feeling very well,
due to the fact that she had recently lost a
child. This sorrow so preyed upon her
mind that it was necessary to have some one
with her all the time to comfort and console
her. She was a very devout woman, and
the brethren, all of whom loved and re-
spected her, administered unto her and she
became more reconciled. My father was
captain of fifty in Brother Kimball’s com-
pany [-] when there was no wood to be had,
I gathered buffalo chips and as a child I
enjoyed it. I also took pleasure in cooking
the meals, since I had no other great re-
sponsibility. One time, while cooking sup-
per over a fire of buffalo chips on the
ground, my clothing took fire, and had it
not been for my brother George, who came
up with a bucket of water just then and
threw it over me, I should have been burned
to death. On the trip I rode when I pleased
and walked when I wished, so the journey
was not so tiresome to me. The present
president of the Church, Joseph F. Smith,
and his mother were members of Brother
Kimball’s party of fifty and the young Jo-
seph was old enough to drive a team for
his widowed mother. We fortunately had
two cows with us on our trip and usually
we had plenty of butter to supply our needs,
but sometimes the amount would fall short,
in which case we would buy a pound from
Sister Smith, young Joseph’s mother.
	One time there was a stampede of our
cattle, as they were coralled within our
wagons, and bursting over the wagons and
demolishing some of them, they killed a
small child. Such were some of the sad
events of our journey. We would see herd
after herd of buffalo, crossing our path,
and coming quite close to our wagons. In
fording the streams, we sometimes had
difficulty, but never any serious mishap. Of-
ten it would take our party a whole day to
cross a river, since the return would have
to be made to help the others over. In
several instances, my mother acting as
midwife, delivered women in confinement,
and there was no interruption to our jour-
ney, since mothers and babes continued the
trip right along with us.
	But oh! the joy and pleasure I shall never
forget when we reached a hill, from the
summit of which we caught our first view
of the Salt Lake valley, the promised land.
When we reached the valley, the teams
were halted, and the people all took up the
shout of hosannah, which was repeated
three times.. We camped with the rest of
the party in the valley of the Great Salt
Lake, and my father made arrangements to
get a city lot. This lot, upon the laying
out of the city afterward, was found to be
located in the Sixteenth ward. We re-
mained in Salt Lake City for about two
weeks, when we moved to the mouth of
North Canyon, about eight miles north of
the city, to what was then known as Ses-
sions settlement. There were four families
living there, after we arrived, two Barthol-
omew families, a Tyler family, and my

[Column 2]
father, Titus Billings’, family. The people
put up their little structures of logs as rap-
dly and easily as they could, since they did
not expect to remain there very long. On
occasion, we would attend meetings in the
Sessions settlement, and as far as we could,
all the families would go. We stayed there
all winter, and in the spring of 1849, on
April 4th, Mr. Warner and I were married.
My uncle, Patriarch Morley, performed
the ceremony at my father’s house. About
June 1st, we moved back to Salt Lake City,
where my father and my husband sawed
logs to prepare the boards for our first
dwellings. They made the shingles by hand
and we enjoyed the distinction of having
the first shingled roof in the place. We lived
in a tent for six weeks before moving into
our house. We had a grand celebration of
the 24th of July. There were twenty-four
young ladies, representing the occasion.
Sister Amanda McEwan led them. They
were all dressed in white, some of them
wore sashes of red, and some, of blue, and
they represented the national colors. We
had no sooner moved into our house and my
parents were preparing to enjoy it, and we
had taken our first breakfast there in the
fall, when we went to conference on the
6th of October, and there was a call issued
from the stand to my uncle, Patriarch Mor-
ley, my father, Titus Billings, my husband,
Brother Warner, Brother Charles Shum-
way, and others to go to Manti to open up
a settlement there. The spot where the city
of Manti now stands consisted only in those
days of sage brush and Indians. The meet-
ings held very little interest for me the rest
of the day, since I was thinking how sad it
would be for us to go into a new section
where there were only sage brush and In-
dians. When we reached home, my father
asked my mother what she thought of our
call, and she answered that we had never
refused a call:yet, and it was too late to do
so now, but I expressed the opinion that I
did not want to go, and, moreover, that I
would not go, to be eaten up by the Indians.
was not feeling very strong, and the situ-
ation looked very dismal and gloomy to
me. My Husband looked at me in surprise
when I ventured the remark that I would
not go and he said quietly, “Oh, I think
you’ll go.”
	Well, I did, and I do not think I have re-
gretted it. I believe that if we had not
obeyed the counsel and done, our duty, we
would not have received as many blessings
from the Lord as we did.
	The house which my father built in Salt
Lake City was sold to Brother Heber C.
Kimball, and with the money obtained from
that, we were enabled to fit out for the
trip to Manti.
	After living in Manti for a number of
years, my father and mother moved to
Provo, Utah, and I followed with my five,
living children, in the course of a few
months.. I then went to live with my par-
ents and I was glad to have a few months
of quiet and rest after the exciting times in
Manti. With the exception of a year, which
spent working in the temple at Manti, and
which I enjoyed very much, I have lived
almost uninterruptedly in Provo. My days
in this city have been spent in quiet , and
leisure among my children and friends. I
joined the Parents’ Class of the Fifth ward,
also the Relief Society of the Fifth ward,
as it was then the Fourth ward, and took an
active part in the discussions of those or-

[Column 3]
ganizations, and for a while I was a teacher
in company with Sister McEwan in the
Relief Society. In the early days the contri-
butions for the Relief Society were in the
form of soap, meat, flour and other heavy
articles. So we were often burdened with
heavy loads when we were going around
in our line of duty.
	I have forty-eight grandchildren, and
thirty-three great grandchildren, my oldest
great-grandchild being fourteen years old.
have two sons living in Provo, two in
Castle Valley, Emery county, one daughter
in Provo, and one in Salt Lake City. I
am living at present in Provo with my old-
est son, John A. Warner. My parents
passed away in Provo they are buried in
the cemetery there.
	I should like to revert here to my work
in the Manti temple. I had been very sick,
and when the sisters came to wash and
anoint me, they could get no testimony as to
whether I was to live, or not. So that
night I prayed fervently to the Lord to show
unto me whether I should live or die, and
had a dream which to me clearly pointed
the way as to what I should do. I dreamed
that I was in an unfinished house, standing
on a plank with empty space below it. I
saw my mother enter the room, and since
was quite chilly, she took her cloak and
threw it over my shoulders. When I remon-
strated, she merely smiled and passed on.
Soon a large dog entered through the same
door which had admitted my mother, and
jumped upon me, arousing me to full con-
sciousness. Then I knew what it all meant.
knew that I was to live and that the open
unfinished house meant that my work was
ncomplete and I concluded that I must go
forward and complete it.
	All my days, since embracing this Gospel,
have tried to live my religion and to be
strong and faithful. I trust that I may ever
live faithful and that Imay endure to the
end. I have been wonderfully blessed, and
am now in my eighty-second year, with the
knowledge that I suffer very little with any
of the special senses, my hearing being very
slightly impaired. I have very little bodily
nfirmity except sometimes a slight ache in
the lower limbs, but I can walk about
through the city with considerable ease. I
attribute all the power which I now pos-
sess to the influence of the holy spirit,
which has not deserted me, and I believe
that I have been able to keep in close com-
munion with that holy spirit through the
power of prayer which I have exercised un-
ceasingly.
