"The Universe Around Us'-Sir James Jeans By Lais V. Hales F late much has been written and spoken of the relationship of science and religion. Broadminded people sense the value of both and feel no enmity between them. The scientist, as he surveys the universe, sets down what he finds. He gives us the message which his telescope discloses and we must decode it. This is where religion enters in. To all of us the nightly rising and setting of the stars and planets provides evidence that beyond the confines of the earth lies an unknown universe built on a far grander scale. In his preface to The Universe Around Us, Sir Jeans states that "we may well admit that science cannot at present hope to say anything final on the questio nof human existence or human destiny, but this is no justification for not becoming. Acquainted with the best it has to offer." The twentieth century scientist provides not the final truth about man and the universe but a step in that direction. Through his efforts the last three centuries have seen our conception of the universe change almost beyond description but we have not been brought appreciably nearer to understanding the relation of this life to the universe. Without the aid of religion we can still only guess as to the meaning of life, which, to all appearances is so rare. Somehow, but we know not how or why, life is here. N The Universe Around Us, Sir Jeans shows us what the universe is like through the colossal new telescopes. Sir Jeans is an authority of world-wide reputation. His ideal in writing his book has been to make the entire book intelligible to readers with no special scientific knowledge and he has succeeded well with but a few exceptions. He discusses with simplicity and honesty, untouched by melodrama, such fascinating things as the past and future of the earth, the duration of life, the possibility of life in other worlds, the future of the sun and stars which surround us. Sir Jeans has been touched by the romance and poetry of big things and this feeling is brought to us. The book takes us away from the every-day trivialities, and helps us find respite from "the long littleness of life." It is the reading of such books as this that gives us vision and perspective and a relative importance of things. The subject Sir Jeans has chosen is big but he is honest and essentially clear and the result is a classic of scientific exposition —The Universe Around Us. Sir Jeans offers no theory as to the origin of life. Gradually the earth assumed a condition suited to the advent of life, which finally appeared, he knows not how, whence or why. The old view that every point of light in the sky represented a possible home for life he casts aside. Only a small corner of the universe can be in the least suited to form an abode for life. There is no definite evidence of life, and certainly no evidence of conscious life, on Mars—or, indeed, anywhere else in the universe. Every year that passes witnesses a levelling of the earth's surface. Soil which was high up on the 502 slopes of hills and mountains last year has now been washed down to the bottoms of muddy rivers by the rain and is continually being carried out to sea. The Thames alone carries between one and two million tons of soil out to sea every year. For how long will England last at this rate, and for how long can it have already lasted. Sir Jeans estimates that the earth is about 1400 million years old, yet the earth's life is only a moment in the lives of the stars. HERE is no known instrument which can make a star look anything but a mere point of light for it is so far away. The farthest star is so far away that the light which started on its long journey from it to us somewhere about the time when primeval man first appeared is just now reaching us. 'Through the childhood, youth and age of countless generations of men, through the long, prehistoric ages, through the slow dawn of civilization and through the rise and fall of dynasties and empires, this light has traveled steadily on its course, covering 186,000 miles every second, and is only just reaching us now. Because of the immense distance the stars are away from the universe they appear steadfast. John Keats, in his famous sonnet, voiced this thought poetically— "Bright star! Would I were steadfast as thou art— Not in lone splendour hung aloft at night, And watching, with eternal lids apart, Like Nature's patient sleepless Eremite, The moving waters at their priestlike task Of pure ablution round earth's human shores——" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The stars fail to show any appreciable change ina century. The nearest star is 25,000,000 million miles away. As they age, time leaves its mark, its wrinkles and its grey hairs by which we estimate their age. They decrease in weight and in luminosity. The majority of stars in space are smaller, cooler, and fainter than the sun. A star "may be idealized as a solitary body, alone in endless space, which continually pours out radiation and receives nothing in return." Au energy which makes life possible on earth we can trace back to the sun. We may think of our sun as a vast storehouse of bottles of energy which have lain in storage for millions of millions of years. It has radiated light and heat for 7 or 8 million million years and still has enough left to provide light and heat for millions of millions of years yet to come. For this light and heat the sun is dependent on nothing but its own resources; "it is a ship on an empty ocean." Sir Jeans states in his last and finest chapter of the book that the "universe cannot go on forever." With universes as with mortals, the only possible life is progress to the - grave. Findings of science make it clear that the universe cannot have existed forever. We owe everything to the sun. It radiates light and heat and any body which is emitting radiation is necessarily losing weight. Weight is streaming away from every square inch of the sun's surface at the rate of about a twentieth of an ounce a century. The sun is so large that this means that as a whole it is losing weight at the rate of over four million tons a second, or about 250 million tons a minute. Thus, the sun is losing 360,000 million tons a day and 131 million million tons a year. The "THE UNIVERSE AROUND US" time will eventually come when it can no longer radiate. Sir Jeans pictures that world so different from our own. HOME twelve centuries ago, human life was compared in poetic simile to the flight of a bird through a warm hall in which men sat feasting, while the winter storms raged 'without. For a brief moment the bird was safe from the tempest but immediately passed from winter to winter. So man's life appeared for a little while, but of what is to follow, or what went before, we know nothing. Man only knowing Life's little lantern between dark and dark wishes to probe further into the past and future than his brief span of life permits. "What," asks Sir Jeans, "will happen after the years of radiation of the sun are at an end?" Is the 503 universe doomed to destruction, and must it dissolve away? The solid earth and the eternal hills—will they melt away as surely, although not as rapidly, as the stars? The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe itself, Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve, And... Leave not a rack behind. In reviewing a book of this type the best a reviewer can do is to create interest in others to read the book. He cannot tell enough of the theories and thoughts of the book to link them up clearly with the logical conclusions reached by the author. The book is intensely interesting, beautifully and authoritatively written, and possesses the tonic qualities of a cold shower. A faith founded on knowledge such as this book expounds can better withstand the sorrows of life. Did You Know By Ellen B. Richardson Dear little babe, With your mother's eyes, And a dimple just made to kiss, Did you know— When you left your heavenly home, How much joy You would bring to this?