A SS ame Adult Education By Jean Cox, State Department of Education DULT education has made more progress in the last decade than any other phase of education. This movement tends to equalize educational opportunity for all. With the momentum already gained, increased attention will center around the possibility and advisability of various kinds of education for grownups. An immense amount of adult education, informal in nature, is going on now. Service clubs for men offer opportunity for instruction through lectures and discussion in different fields. The immense growth and development of the women's club movement from the very earliest one in 1866, has shown the eager desire and interest of millions of women who are organized not only for self-improvement, but also for group improvement. They are earnest, conscientious, and persistent in their desire to keep abreast. Perhaps the slogan best representing their attitude is "We ourselves need more education. Let's plan to keep after it.' They are anxious for further growth and are willing to strive for it. Libraries offer another means of adult education which gives evidence and convincing proof that the average intelligent American man and woman are not, intellectually speaking, static and inert. The increase in the number of libraries, as well as the large number of books which are passed over the country, has shown that many people desire good books. One of the interesting comments from libraries is that some of the most popular books are not fiction. Another big educational force is the parent teacher movement. Through the wisdom and skill of the national organization a distinct progress has been made in a better understanding of the child. It has also paved the way for better relationships of the educational triangle, the home, the school, and the child. Affiliated religious organizations have also contributed much to the education of adult members. These have offered not only opportunity for religious-social leadership, but also for educational-social leadership. Where the opportunity is such as to bring out the best effort of its members, there are almost endless possibilities for organized as well as semi-organized instruction for the members of the various groups. OU standards for educational endeavor have also changed rapidly. The requirement for the four year high school or normal course, which was a. Difficult attainment in 1900, has been extended: The degrees of bachelor of arts or science, and master of science and arts are now considered almost necessary for any kind of leadership in teaching, business, or industry. Many universities now have more graduate students than the total previous enrollment. These opportunities for youth have stimulated parents to make the most of educational possibilities for themselves. The nation-wide interest in child welfare has made parents conscious of their need for careful study. The scientific aspect of child nutrition and training has opened up new fields of study for intelligent parents. Study clubs, lectures, radios, and correspondence courses have 500 been satisfactory means of stimulating interest in this new subject. Education at any age is necessary for intelligent living in this changing world. Persons of leisure become interested in new endeavors. People who work for their living RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE find that additional training in relation to their work is almost essential for promotion. No individual over twenty-five years of age and up to seventy need fear that intellectual life is finished and that selfeffort is useless. God's Gift By Lula Wilson Bowler I know thou sent her, Father dear, This tiny, helpless thing. She came to us from thine own home True love and joy to bring. And as the days and weeks passed by, Her bright blue, laughing eyes, Her smiling lips and calm sweet face And actions, oh, so wise— All these and many other things Her little life combined To fill our home with happiness Our hearts with love entwined. And when twelve months had passed away She toddled, oh so sweet. As cautiously she moved about We watched her little feet. She seemed so wonderful, so dear, This baby clasped upon my breast, To feel her little arms and lips In "hugs and kisses'—ah, how blest! Thou was't not sent to cheer the throng Thou dainty lily pure. But in the hearts of those thou loved Thy memory dwells secure. Our Father only let thee stay *Till thou most perfect did appear; Then in his wisdom called thee home, For sin and woe awaited here. And now I would not thee recall E'en though my heart at times would break. "My Father knows," his will is best; In trouble he doth not forsake. And so with hope we'll struggle on Nor doubt that you are waiting there To greet us with your loving smile— When we are through this life of care.