Bem in do- Guide Lessons For November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) Book or MorMoN—THE GREAT WAR This lesson covers the material in the Book of Mormon from Chapter 45 to Chapter 52, including both chapters. The Story We have now reached the year 19 of the reign of the Judges, or 72 B. C. The Lamanites are south of a strip of wilderness running east and west from sea to sea, with the Nephites on the north of it. Just here this strip is and how wide it is, we do not know, and it does not matter. 'Alma the prophet, after instructing his son Helaman concerning the records, disappears and is not heard of again. Helaman, with other high priests, goes out to preach to the people. They meet with opposition. Then Amalickiah, a large man physically and an aspirant for place and honor, stirs up trouble. He wants to be king. Moréni, however, is so wrought up over this threat upon freedom that he rouses all liberty-loving men to oppose Amalickiah. The result is that the traitor escapes, with some others, to the Lamanites. Moroni now foresees trouble with the Lamanites. So he prepares for war. He fortifies the cities by sur-_ rounding them by high earth-works, on the top of which he builds breastworks of timber. Then he waits fot the inevitable. In tHe Meantime, Amalickiah, south, perfects his own schemes\ First, he stirs up the sleeping enmity of the Lamanite chief against the northern people. The king orders a war. But the army is divided by fear of Moroni. Most of them revolt. Next, the crafty Nephite is sent to subdue the rebellious soldiers. He poisons Lehonti, their leader, becomes head of the combined forces, marches back 'to the king, has him run through with a sword, marries the queen, and rouses the whole barbarous nation to war-heat. It is a story that matches Iago's in "Othello." Then there is a period of war— which lasts through this lesson, with an interval, and into the next. Amalickiah is killed by a pretty strategem of Teancum's, and his brother Ammoron succeeds him. Several Nephite cities are taken by the Lamanite army, which is very numerous. The interval of peace, as between the two peoples, comes after the first Lamanite army is sent home in defeat by the resourceful Moroni. | But it is not a period of entire peace among the Nephites. For some persons of "noble birth,' presumably unworthy descendants of men\who did something for the community, seek to break up the republic and to establish a monarchy. That is, what happens in this lesson." -* Outline —, | y, I Spiritual Chapter 45). If Alma i Helaman. 510 2. Alma disappears. 3. Helaman preaches to the people. 4. He meets with opposition. II. Treachery of Amalickiah (Chapters 46 and 47). 1. Who he is—description of 2. His purposes. 3. His escape to Lamanites. 4. His plotting among them. III. Efforts of Moroni (Chapter 46). 1. His concern over Amalickiah's conduct. 2. His "title of liberty." 3. His success. 4. Traits of character. IV. War with Lamanites (Chapters "th 51, 52). 1. Preparation for it by Moroni. First attack by Lamanites. Interval of peace. Attacks under Amalickiah and Ammoron. 7 Sete Notes 1. Amalickiah. This is one of the most striking, well outlined characters in the Book of Mormon. To be sure, he is not an admirable character, aS we measure men, for he is engaged in building up himself instead of others. And, after all, that is the supreme test of human worth. Nevertheless, he is a well-defined portrait in the Nephite record. He is a perfect antithesis of liberty-loving Moroni. He is a large man, we are told, and powerfully built. We could imagine as much. And he has a keen mind, too, with imagination. He loves power, has unbounded energy, and knows how to plan so as to attain his ends. It would seem, too, that he has a persuasive tongue. He raises about him, by that means it would seem, a rather large following among the Nephites; and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE then he leads the Lamanite chieftain and later the chieftain's widow into his trap. If all the details in his life were known, it is not at all improbable that he is the counterpart, in the main outlines of his character, of Shakespeare's Iago, in "Othello." Having chosen his end—the headship of the Lamanites first and then of the Nephites as well—he goes about the matter of attaining that end in the most cunning and systematic way, and utterly without scruples. It is a pity that such a restless, ambitious, far-seeing mind cannot be set to work on some fine constructive. Purpose. But very likely he was not of the type that can be trusted. His main flow is selfishness. In our next lesson we shall be concerned with his opposite—Moroni. 2. Teancum is another character whose outlines are clearly drawn in the very few details we have of him in the Book of Mormon. But he is not of the same class as the selfish Amalickiah. He plans and works for the common good. Equally 'unresting with that scheming apostate, Teancum thinks always of how he may further the cause of liberty in his nation. Both armies are asleep. Amalickiah is asleep, with his guards, for every one is tired from a hard day's fighting. Teancum alone is awake. He wonders if he cannot strike a fatal blow iat the enemy by killing the king. It is a desperate chance to take. But he risks all for the cause. It is a fine picture—this courageous, heroic figure stealing over the wall, moving stealthily to the king's tent, plunging the blade into his heart without waking anyone, and then going back and rousing the Nephite soldiers and holding them in readiness for anything that might hap- GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 511 pen. It is a splendid act performed in a great cause. 3. War does not make very pleasant reading under any circumstances. It is probably what Sherman said of it, when he called it "hell." But there is this to say of the warfare in the Book of Mormon —the details are not given for their own sake. Mormon, whose words we are reading—for it was he who made the abridgement of the "larger plates'—was himself a soldier in his day. And probably he could not altogether resist the temptation to set down some of the particulars in Moroni's defensive campaign. On the whole, however, he practices great self-restraint—for a warrior. And so we have usually only such details as bring out the policy of the Nephite people in their relations to the Lamanites and the purposes of the Lord with respect to the white population here. (a) The Nephites fight only in self-defense. Never are they the aggressors.. Their leaders have a _ horror of the taking of human life. They naturally do not like to kill, but they have a special objection to killing people in war 'because these do not have time in which to repent and prepare to meet death. It is a refinement of thought that, so far as I know, is found only in the' - Book of Mormon. (b) The Nephites of this period have an intense love for political liberty. That is partly due, no doubt, to the passionate pleadings of Moroni. He is the Patrick Henry of the ancient Americans. Liberty to those people was more precious than life itself. Doubtless they felt, at least, during the period which we have now reached, just as our own beloved president John Taylor put it, "I would not be a slave to God—I'd rather be extinct!' And so they staked their all for this one thing—freedom to think and act. (c) God demanded righteousness of the Nephites. He demanded righteousness of all who inhabited the American continent. Mormon interjects this passage into his abridgement: "Cursed shall be the land unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, unto destruction, which do wickedly, when they are fully ripe. The Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." (d) In accordance with this law thus set down by Mormon and others in the Book of Mormon, the author of this abridged narrative takes pains to show that whatever blessings come to the Nephites are the result of their righteousness, and that whatever ills come upon them are the results of their wickedness. This war is one of the applications of this principle. And it is helpful to us in reading this account to remember that Mormon was writing this part of the story in full view of the fact that this nation was either going under or had actually gone under. He had before him the whole history of his people. 4. The details of the war are therefore chosen for the purpose of bringing out the larger purpose in the life of the Nephites, and not because the details of it are interesting in themselves. This is not true, say, in a history of the United States. For there these war particulars are set down because they happened to the people of this nation. But Mormon does not work that way. He is writing a religious history, not just a history.. His emphasis on Moroni and Amalickiah shows that. So does that incident about Teancum. Always his particulars are subordinated to his main purpose. If therefore we read these war  details with that idea in mind, this assignment and the one to follow will not appear so dry as they might otherwise be. Questions 1. Is this idea of Mormon's about righteousness and wickedness being followed by prosperity and its opposite ee ee. One that applies generally? Did it apply to the Lamanites? Why? Does it apply to the United States? Explain. 2. Does this idea apply to individuals? Give your reasons. 3. Just what acts do you consider "righteous" and "wicked" in individuals? In a nation or community? '4. Is the "prosperity" or the "evil" that comes to the "'righteous" or the "wicked" a matter of "re ward" and "punishment" or a matter of "results" coming after a "cause"? Explain your meaning, and justify your explanation. 5. Show from this lesson that the things in the Book of Mormon deal with the universal in life rather than the merely temporary. References: Dictionary to the Book of 'Mormon, Reynolds; The Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon, Evans. LESSON 2 Work and Business TEACHERS' Topic FOR NOVEMBER (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in November. ) MemMBerSHIP IN RELIEF SOCIETY "his charitable Society is according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feeling of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. * * * And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days to this Society."—Joseph Smith. Nothing bigger can come to a human being than to love a great Cause more than life itself, and to have the privilege throughout life of working for that Cause—Anna Howard Shaw. Any good woman is eligible for membership in the Relief Society. I. Admittance to Membership 1. Desire to join indicated 2. Explanation of obligations 3. Recommendation by member 4. Acceptance by majority vote II. Responsibilities of Membership 1. Payment of dues 2. Attendance at meetings 3. Relief Society Magazine subscription 4. Participation in Activity — social, financial, service, or any call made by president 5. Loyalty to organization GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Ste LESSON 3 Literature (3rd Week in November) THe SHort Story: Stories OF A NCIENT Ecypt, GREECE, AND ROME two and three thousand B. C., there was one Ptahhotep of the Pharaoh Dedkere's family who collected the moral maxims handed down from earlier ages. Found in his Precepts was this: "Tf you are in the position of one to whom the petitions are made, be courteous and listen to the petitioner's story. Do not stop his words until he has poured out all that he came to say. A man with grievance loves the official who will accept what he states and will let him talk out his troubles fully. * * * A kind word will paint his heart; but if an official stops the flow of his words, people will say, 'Why should this fellow there have the power to behave this way?' * * * When Death comes, it seizes the baby which is at its mother's breast as well as him who has become an old man. When that messenger comes to carry you away, let him find-you ready." Change the wording of Ptahhotep's morality a little and it might have been written by some twentieth century moralist. Man, in some essentials, does not change much, and it is the human element in these stories of Ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome that makes them worth a moment's pause in today's work. These three ancient cottntries have been grouped together for two rather obvious reasons. They are related in geography and civilization: because of the limited number of lessons, the story material must be condensed. Class leaders are, of course, free to substitute stories L: Egypt, somewhere between other than the ones designated. Some stories they will feel to be more interesting and more easily handled, but for the purposes of unity a story from each country has been selected, Anpu and Bata from Egypt, Aesop's Country Mouse from Greece, and either Livy's Horatius at the Bridge or Ovid's Orpheus and Eurydice from Rome. Some readers may find that Herodotus' King Rhampsinitus and the Thief is most interesting of the Greek stories, but the subject matter is rather unpleasant. The story is interesting however, if only for the difference in moral ethics between the twentieth century and the B. C's. It is hardly probable that a ruler of today would choose for his daughter's husband such a thiet, even if he were wiser than the Egyptians who "excelled all the rest of the world in wisdom." Some of the class members may prefer a mystery story, there being two in the Ancient Rome section— one The Haunted House by Pliny the younger, and the other The Dream by the author of the Golden Ass. The former is one of the best of ancient ghost stories and shows that ghosts have not changed materially since Pliny's time. The Dream is breathlessly absorbing and still has hair raising qualities. Aesop, who presumably wrote The Country Mouse is too well known to need mention. His moral tales, dressed in the fabric of beasts, have come down through many ages and are still being told and imitated 514 today. From all that the world knows, he was a foreign slave in a Greek household. Naturally the Romans borrowed much of their culture from the Greeks, but among them the short story was more highly esteemed than it was with the Greeks. Ovid, author of Orpheus and Eurydice, was born in Rome in 43 B. C. His great literary ambition was to write in verse the chief stories of Greek mythology. The Egyptian story, Anpu and Bata, was supposed to have been written about 1400 B. C., and the author is unknown. It is a story with a theme as old as Egypt. In the Old Testament the theme is found in the story of Joseph and Potiphar's wife, and writers of every age since have used it. Women, in the opinion of the author of Anpu and Bata, were inferior creatures, for both of his women have no sensesof honor and resort to trickery and deceit to gain their ends. Even the woman composed of the essence of Nine Gods was no better than the ordinary mortal. The civilized world has always been interested in Egyptian history and mythology, and many seekers of religion have felt that deep mysteries and truths have long been hidden in the Valley of the Nile. Much of our civilization has come from Egypt and scholars have felt that country which could produce so many and variegated arts and sciences should also produce a religion as great. But in this supposition they have erred. Men who have made a thorough and prolonged study of ancient Egypt believe that its religion was without a definite system of doctrine, largely unintelligible and unadaptable to reason. Egyptian religion seems to have begun with Animism, a belief that the earth and heavens were filled RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with countless spirits, many of which abode in animals. Naturally the primitives could not understand animals because they had no means of communication. Animals, then, were mysterious and could cause harm to man. Man, in turn, must someway appease them. So he began to placate animals by sacrifices, after which they in time became spirits and later gods. The water, the wind, the trees, the fields, all were filled with gods, and each tiny place had its local god. In historic times the gods were better organized. At the time the story of Anpu and Bata was written, about 1400 B. C., there was one chief god, Re or Ra, who was god of the sun. There were countless other deities, but the Nine Gods, whose names it would be useless to name, were the most important. Animals, however, were still held holy, particularly the bull. This animal, if he wanted to be highly regarded, must be black with certain markings of white. The Egyptian religion, shown in the story, was still crude and childlike with gods who dealt in magic. But these same gods were walking upon the earth and dispensing justice. Good was rewarded and bad punished. Questions on the Story of Anpu and Bata What is the theme of the story? Do you know of any other stories using the same theme? What knowledge is gained from Anpu and Bata of life in Egypt at this time? What evidences do you find in the story that the author was a person of culture? Applying the tests for a good story, show where this one either complies or fails., GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Is this story a true short story according to the modern definition? Does the writer of this story have a high opinion of women? Why? In what ways were the two women characters alike? What do you suppose were the particular ornaments and promises that won the wife of Bata? How did Bata triumph over women in the end? Point out human traits that are characteristic of any country or time. Does this story have a philosophy? * * * * Using Ovid's story as a basis, 915 the Greek and Egyptian religion? What difference do you find between Notes on Anpu and Bata Ra Harakti: sun god and chief of the gods. Nine Gods: the principal gods. Bull of the Nine Gods: a sacred animal, probably black with the white marks. Khnumu: one of the Nine Gods Hathors: goddesses of love, usually represented as having cow's heads and ears. Persea trees: holy trees. Muller's Egyptian Mythology was used as the basis for conclusions drawn on Egyptian religion. LESSON 4 Social Service Fourth Week in November PERSONALITY StTuDY: THE PsyCHOLOGY OF PERSUASION Based on Influencing Human Behavior, pages 28-70 In these lessons we are using the term "personality" rather frequently. Just what meaning do we have in mind when we use this much over-worked expression? To realize how loosely the term is used ask a few of your friends just what they mean when they speak of a person as having such or such a personality. Is personality, for example, largely a matter of perfume and cosmetics? How much, if any, is it a matter of making use of what we sometimes call "policy" or of being able to prevaricate gracefully? To what extent is one's personality stable so that it may be justly described in the same terms on different days or years? The writer was one of a group who, at one time, at least assented to the description of a certain educator as having a "rotten personality" and then later with no less malice he agreed with others who believed that this same individual could attribute his wonderful success very largely to his "splendid personality." Again, another individual was referred to in the writer's presence as having a "cheap, drug-store, tin-whistle personality," and within a week this same person was described in his hearing as having the "most outstanding and sparkling" personality of any one of about fifteen hundred college students. Do we not need to understand better what psychologists are thinking of when they write or speak about "personality?". Carr says: "The term 'self' is generally employed to characterize an individual from the standpoint of his reactive disposition. We also speak of an individual's personality when we wish to refer to all those traits and  characteristics of his self that make or mar his efficiency in dealing with other individuals, while the term 'mind' is used when we wish to characterize an individual from the standpoint of his intellectual characteristics and potentialities." Thus we see that personality is not just some mysterious "it" which one simply either has or does not have and which is something beyond one's power to achieve. On the other hand it is largely a matter of habits, attitudes and ideals. To improve one's personality in this wholesome and sobering sense of the word is not only our privilege but our responsibility. In this connection reread the quotation from Dean Woodward in last month's Magazine. In this same spirit, Dr. Chamberlin writes: "Persons, not things, represent the only true values. The enhancement of personality is the one proper end of our living and striving." (See Life and Philosophy of W. H. Chamberlin, pages 129 and 182.) If these lessons really serve their purpose, we shall all have increased our understanding and control of our own behavior as well as that of other people. We shall be better equipped to bring about desirable changes in ourselves as well as in our associatgs. So much by way of again striking the keynote of the course. The immediate lesson for consideration is based on our text, pages 28 to 70. First we have a rather interesting and clear discussion of some of our fundamental human wants and then follows another short chapter on the tools with which we may make things vivid in communicating our ideas to our friends. In connection with pages 30-32, consider the quotation from Dewey given in Poulson's Human Nature, pages 49-50, On the prob- 175. Lem of human "instincts" compare the text, page 37, with Poulson, pages 160-161, or West and Skinner—Psychology in Social and Religious work, chapter 8. In. Relation to page 39, consider this extract from Swift: "(People) rarely do the best of which they are capable. They grow to the smallest dimensions of their job and then stop. They do not make a little job into a big one. The reason for this, we have seen. Is racial indolence. No more effort is expended in a piece of work than is required to produce a satisfactory result; and 'satisfactory' is a variable quantity. * * * So true is it that man is satisfied with the results which meet the lowest requirements of a situation that this human characteristic may be called the tendency to minimum effort. It is, therefore, of supreme importance that young men and women, during their adaptive period be associated with those whose standards of achieve- ~ ment are high—who stimulate to continuous effort. Toward better efficiency." Compare these sentiments with those given in Poulson's Human Nature, pages 171, 175. Do you not agree with President Emeritus Brimhall when he says, ''We need someone to keep us at our best?" In relation to the "violent shouting," "angry scolding" and "direful remindings" mentioned on page 45 of the text, it would be well to reconsider problem number six of our last lesson. Is this not important enough to have emphasized again? Supplementary References Poulson—Human Nature (Teacher Training Text 1927-28) pages 18-24, 31-39, 49-50, 160-161, 171, West and Skinner—Psychology GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER for Religious and Social Workers, pages 95-113, 245-262. Further Problems for Discussion 1. Compare Carr's definition of personality with other defintions you are able to find. 2. Bagby says that traits of personality are "essentially * * * products of the training and the experience through which the individual has passed, especially in the early stages of his development." What things about this statement are especially hopeful and encouraging even to adults? Are our personalities still in the making? What are some of the first steps for us to take so as not to "allow our personalities to shrivel up and cease growing?" 3. Describe in picturesque words the. "pouring in" technique and the "technique of duty" mentioned by Overstreet. Contrast these with the more modern type of persuasion which first arouses "in the other person an eager want." 4, Mention several of our dependable and powerful human wants of which we are ordinarily conscious. Mention some that are far more subtle and relatively unconscious and yet very powerful. 517 5. Show that the perstiasiveness of the first advertisement quoted on page 51 depends upon how well it induces "vivid imagined experiences" on the part of the reader. Relate a recent instance where you made effective use of what our author calls the "secret of all true persuasion." 6. If you are marking your book as suggested in last month's Magazine, what sentence would you mark with double or treble lines on pages 57 to 63 inclusive? Comment on your selection and compare with sentences which appealed most to other members of the class. 7. Are you becoming more interested in personality problems? How much more worthwhile it is to make actual observations of human nature and to try to influence the behavior of our associates in some of the ways we are learning about than to merely content ourselves with the parroting or verbalizing of the phrases in our lessons! Do you notice too much concern on the part of the members of the class with mere words and phrases? Contrast as well as you can these two methods of trying to understand and influence human behavior. A Lullaby Song By Elsie E. Barrett There's a Lullaby Song 'tween the daylight and dark, Ever crooning the babies to sleep; Lady Button-eyes sees from the sheltering trees, As she lovingly takes a sly peep. She is ready to waft her calm spell o'er each babe When ashe beckons some smiles lurking near As she fashions sweet dreams from the moon's dainty beams— Now she's creeping and c-r-e-e-p-i-n-g—I hear— Just a faint lisping sigh from a baby's pink lips; Lady Button-eyes, smiling and wise, Need no longer delay, so she tiptoes away Just to button all dear baby eyes. The Three Graces Happiness Why not be cheerful Out of life cull; Gather the pleasant, Cast forth the dull. Why not be hopeful? All is not ill; Vainly they dream that happiness is found And measured out like tallow by the pound. While others madly climb the path of fame, Decked in fine purple sit in chairs of state And thus invite but stinging darts of fate. Time will fulfill. Why not be friendly Some are worth while; Men crucify themselves beneath the lonely sky With undried eyes—while all the world goes by.? Alas! For vanity, Alas' for those who seek, 'Wresting by force what only gods may lend Give them a smile. As though this precious gift was some rare toy, Cheer, hope, and triendship, A splendid show, an object to be sought Cost not a dime; And bartered as a bauble that is bought. Mellow life's footsteps, Make life divine. Smooth out the pathway, Vanquish a sigh; Yet certainly is happiness but mind, Commanded by the soul, the heart's desire That burns within as some clear vestal fire. Flaming as bright in beggar as in prince, Come, give a try! Nor all of Croeses' wealth add to its years. Calendula: Who sits there beside the wall Clad in raiment yellow,! Through the summer and the fall In the sunshine mellow? Slim her stem and stout her waist, Green her underpinning, Golden frills about her laced In a way that's winning. Sweet, pert, quaint, bright marigold— Ever bravely shining, Would your light my heart might fold In its deepest lining! —Josephine Spencer. By Henry F. Kirkham? Light follows darkness, Downcast and helpless, Your days are fleeting; By Henry F. Kirkham Some men strive mightly for outward gain, Still yet again in sackcloth and in ash, And quest afar to find the rainbow's end. One may not quench it by a flood of tears Plant This Fall Bulbs, Shrubs, Trees Fall is the only time to plant HYACINTHS, TULIPS, DAFFODILS, IRIS. Ete. —and in most places we recommend Fall Planting of all hardy shrubs— ROSES, TREES & PERENNIALS For complete information write for our new Free Fall Bulb & Nursery Catalog It tells how, what and when PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists Salt Lake City, Utah MANY WALK Thousands of careful, thoughtful, economizing people walk to our store and carry their foods home daily in order to save. Others pay out car fare to come to our store for their eats. And save money in the _ bargain. Make a trip to our store soon and you'll see why so many people go to a lot of trouble in order to shop here. O. P SKAGGS €fficient Service FOOD MRR e703 STORES "A Surety of Purity" Cottonwood Stake Maternity Home Under the direction of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. Graduate nurses in attendance. Hospital service and home-like atmosphere. 404 E. 56th So. Tel. Murray 476 Sesgo MILK J Puddings Pies" Custards Creams Rival At All Grocer's When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Women