[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 10 | Title: Elizabeth J. Stevenson | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON.

“Of all the thoughts of God that are
Borne inward into souls afar,
Along the Psalmist’s music deep
Now tell me if that any is,
For gift or grace surpassing this, 
‘He giveth His beloved sleep.’ ”

	However long we may live we never
seem ready to part with our friends or 
relatives when the time comes for them
to go hence. It is strange that having 
passed through so many of the trying or-
deals we are nevertheless just as ill pre-
pared for the shock when it comes, as 
those younger people who know less of
these changes. We part for a few days
feeling sure we shall meet again, and the 
“dread monster” steps in unawares, as it 
were, and takes the near and dear, and 
we are powerless to avert the seeming
calamity. Then we must summon all our 
courage to go on with our accustomed 
duties. It is the only alternative noth-
ing else ever does so well. There is so
much more to be done now the loved
one has gone, who labored so diligently,
so valiantly; her unfinished work must be
taken up by another, and we must not
wear a sad countenance, for it is pleasing
to the Lord that we should be cheerful,
and so we go about our accustomed duties
and try to become resigned to the lonely
feeling that inevitably follows the loss of


[Column 1]
a dear friend or neighbor, a companion or
associate.
	In the passing away of Sister Elizabeth
J. Stevenson, the sisters in the Salt Lake
Temple, where she was called among the
first to labor, and in the General Relief
Society, realize they have lost one of
their best workers and a true friend.
	She was always willing to do double
duty when it was at all possible; no task
too hard, no burden too heavy, a friend
in need to those in want of assistance,
either temporal or spiritual. A comforter
to those who were cast down or op-
pressed, such a one must be greatly
missed by those who had received from
her kindly and loving ministrations.
“And friends, dear friends, when it shall be,
That this low breath is gone from me,
And round my bier ye come to weep,
Let one, most loving of you all,
Say, ‘Not a tear must o’er her fall!
He giveth His beloved sleep,’”
	It is the opinion of the writer that
could our beloved sister and friend, who
has left us, speak to us now, she would
say, “Do not weep for me but take up
the task I have laid down and be valiant
for the truth of the Gospel of our Lord
and Savior.”
	In some respects the demise of Sister
Stevenson was sadder than when one dies
at home. Going from her home on Mon-
day, April 18, to attend a conference at
Emery, Emery Co., for the Relief Society
(a work she greatly loved) she was taken
sick upon the journey; her illness was so
serious from the first that her traveling
companion, Sister Hattie B. Harker,
telephoned to the family on Saturday
night, and her daughter, Sister Wilcox,
started on the Sunday morning train to go
to her mother’s assistance; hearing by
telephone message on reaching Price (the
end of the railroad) that her mother was
worse, she sent to Salt Lake for her hus-
band, Dr. C. F. Wilcox, to come as soon
as possible. The doctor complied with
his wife’s request, and everything was
done for the sick woman that skill and
remedies could effect. Sister Stevenson
had great faith herself, and she was ad-
ministered to by the brethren of the
priesthood many times, but from the first
it seemed that pneumonia had fastened
upon her vital parts, and prayers and faith
although comforting and soothing, could
not avail, and she breathed her last in
mortality on the morning of Wednesday,
April 25, 1906, her daughter, Sister Wil-
cox, and son-in-law were by the bedside
and Sister Harker, who had been her as-
sociate in visiting Emery Stake, with
others of the sisters, were present to
render any assistance possible. Her last
words were, “I know that my Redeemer
liveth.”
	As soon as possible after the sad event
Elder Ezra Stevenson (Sister Stevenson’s
son in this city) was apprised of the sad
occurrence, and arrangements were made
to bring the body home. From Emery to
Price, sixty miles by team, required time,
and the journey under the circumstances
was mournful indeed. Sister Wilcox was
overwhelmed with grief, also Sister
Harker, who felt for her companion the
most intense sympathy in her great sor-
row.
	The mourners reached Salt Lake at
midnight, Thursday, April 26, and were
met at the depot by members of the fam-

[Column 2]
ily. Sister Stevenson was taken to her
own home in the 18th ward of this city.
The tender sympathy of the many
friends was expressed for the bereaved
ones, by loving words and messages, and
all that it was possible to do was done for
those who had suffered the irreparable
loss.
	The funeral services were held in the
18th ward Chapel, Sunday, April 29, at
12 m. Friends were permitted to call at
the home during the forenoon, and the
house was filled with brethren and sisters
coming and going for hours. Sister Stev-
enson looked lovely in her pure white
Temple clothes, like a beautiful bride
ready to meet her bridegroom.
	The floral offerings were exquisite and
tastefully arranged by loving friends, the
sisters of the Temple, the General Board
of the Relief Society and adjacent stake
associations, the Reapers’ Social and very
many who loved her, sent sweet and
fragrant floral tributes in recognition of
their friendship and sisterly devotion to
the deceased, with whom they had
labored in works of love.
	On the stand at the Chapel were Presi-
dent John R. Winder of the First Presi-
dency of the Church, Elders Rudger
Clawson, C. W. Penrose and O. F.
Whitney of the Apostles, Dr. Seymour
B. Young and J. Golden Kimball of the
Council of Seventy, President Richard
W. Young, Jos. S. Wells and John M.
Knight of the Ensign Stake, High Coun-
cilors and prominent brethren and sisters;
one side of the stand the seats were occu-
pied by the Temple workers, and the
other side the General Board of the Re-
lief Society; the hall was draped in white
and the white casket in front of the stand
was covered with the beautiful floral
emblems of innocence and purity.
	The Chapel was filled with relatives,
friends and acquaintances. The Bishop
of the ward, T. A. Clawson, conducted
the serviees, Professor C. J. Thomas,
with the Temple choir, took charge of
the music, which was very inspiring,
The Temple choir rendered the hymn,
“Do what is right.” Prayer was offered
by Elder J. G. Kimball; choir then sang
“Who are these arrayed in white.” The
first speaker was President Bathsheba W.
Smith, who presides over the sisters in
the Salt Lake Temple and is also the
General President of the Relief Society
of the Church in all the world. She paid
an affectionate tribute to the memory of
Sister Stevenson with whom she had been
so closely associated for many years.
President S. B. Young, the next speaker,
alluded particularly to Elder Edward
Stevenson, who had been a member of
the Council of Seventy and spoke of the
joyous meeting of this good woman with
her husband “beyond the veil.” Sister
Hattie B. Harker spoke of the severe ill-
ness and demise of Sister Stevenson, giv-
ing some of the details of the sad event.
Sister Ruth M. Fox followed, she had
known Sister Stevenson from her child-
hood, and alluded particularly to her
motherly qualities in a very sweet and
touching way.
	Brother Charles Pike rendered divinely
the grand old hymn, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.”
	Bishop George H. Taylor of the 14th
ward, where Sister Stevenson had lived
for many years, addressed the congrega-
tion briefly, making many eulogistic com-

[Column 3]
ments on her life. President Martha H
Tingey of the Y. L M. I. A. spoke elo-
quently for a few minutes; she also had
always known Sister Stevenson. Elder
Orson F. Whitney then addressed the
congregation, speaking with great force
and power, paying a glowing tribute to
women, and especially mentioning the Re-
lief Society as the first great organization
of women founded anywhere in the
world, and by the Prophet Joseph him-
self; he then referred to the spread of
woman’s work and influence in the world
since that time. Sister Emmeline B.
Wells followed this eloquent discourse
and President John R. Winder spoke a
few minutes of the many noble qualities
and virtues of Sister Stevenson and em-
phasized her diligent service in the Tem-
ple. The choir sang “Shall we meet be-
yond the river.” Bishop George Romney
pronounced the benediction. The ser-
vices were very impressive and the Holy
Spirit seemed to pervade the house and
fill the hearts of all present, singers,
speakers and hearers. One could not
help feeling the divine influence, and
could Sister Stevenson have looked in
and heard and taken note of all, she
must have been gratified with the respect
and love manifest in all that was said and
done throughout the entire ceremonies.
	The journey is o’er, the fight is fought
		She has reached the home of her love,
	And the smile on her beautiful face is caught,
		From the land of smiles above.
	“After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night,
	After the rough and toilsome way,
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Sister Elizabeth Jane Stevenson was
born February 8, 1838, in Parish, St.
Aubens, Jersey, Channel Isles. Her par-
ents were Phillip and Mary Remon Du
Fresne. At the early age of twelve years
she was baptized into the Church of
Latter-day Saints by the late President
John Taylor; the home of her parents
was headquarters for “Mormon” mission-
aries until the family came to Utah in
1854. They crossed the Atlantic in a
sailing vessel and were six weeks upon
the ocean, landed in New Orleans and
crossed the plains with ox-teams the same
year, experiencing the many hardships
and privations of those early pilgrimages.
The journey to the valley was sadly mem-
orable on account of cholera, from which
fatal disease two of the sisters of Sister
Stevenson died and were buried by the
wayside.
	The year following, on November 28,
1805, Elizabeth Jane Du Fresne was
united in marriage to Elder Ezra Steven-
son, a man who spent most of his life in
the mission field Seven children were
born to them, of whom only two are now
living, Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Ezra T.
Stevenson. There are quite a number of
grandchildren to mourn her loss, for she
was particularly dear to them.
	Sister Stevenson was affectionately
cherished in the boson of her own family;
she was very loving and generous in her
nature. and not only to her own, but to
her large circle of friends whom she de-
lighted to entertain in the most hospitable
fashion. Her home was always a resting
place for those who needed a temporary
haven, and she made the Saints gladly


welcome with her affable manner, and 
kindly spirit.
	In the Relief Society of the 14th ward
she began her benevolent work as a
teacher, and for fifteen years visited reg-
ularly, then she filled the position of
Counselor to the President until her re-
moval to the 18th ward. Early in the
missionary work among the stakes of
Zion, Sister Stevenson began to visit
among the sisters with Sister Zina D. H.
Young, the President, and others; she has
traveled and attended sisters’ conferences 
in almost every stake of Zion and many
of the wards and missions, her labors have
been untiring in this department of Re-
lief Society work, and there is abundant
proof that her work has been appreci-
ated. When the Relief Society was in-
corporated in October, 1892, she was one
of the incorporaters and was present at
that important meeting and acted as 
secretary pro tem, was sometime after-
wards made a member of the Board of 
Directors. President M. Isabella Horne
chose her as one of her Counselors to fill
a vacancy caused by the death of Sister
Phebe W. Woodruff in the General Re-
trenchment Association, that always met
semi-monthly in the 14th ward, while 
Sister Horne was living; Sister Stevenson
often presided in the absence of the Pres-
ident. Sister Stevenson was a charter
member of the Reapers’ Club organized
in October, 1892, and was its Treasurer for
many years and at the time of her de-
cease. In all the various places she filled 
she was trustworthy, and interested, she
was punctual and strict in the performance
of duty, never known to shirk any task
however hard, or difficult. She was 
spiritual minded in a high degree and her 
religion was always first in every place; a
woman of sterling integrity to the Gospel
and willing to make any sacrifice, in
obedience to divine law or principle.
	Sister Stevenson will be remembered
for good works by the Saints here and
elsewhere, she visited her native home in 
1885-6, and traveled through parts of
England with her husband attending
meetings and speaking to many audiences
large and small on Gospel subjects, her
faith was always her theme on all occa-
sions public or private.
	She has left us now and surely her re-
ward will be eternal life in the mansions
of glory. She will be generally missed,
perhaps most of all among the sick and
afflicted. It may well be said of her
“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor,
yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the 
needy.”
	“The loved and lost, why do we call them lost,
	Beccause we miss them from our onward
		road?
	God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed,
		Looked on us all, and loving her the most,
	Straightaway relieved her from life’s weary load,”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
