[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 10 | Title: EXECUTIVE SESSION, NATIONAL | Author: REBECCA E. LITTLE, DELEGATE]

	EXECUTIVE SESSION, NATIONAL
		COUNCIL OF WOMEN,
			TOLEDO, OHIO.
SECRETARY’S REPORT OF THE NATIONAL
WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY, PRESENTED
BY REBECCA E. LITTLE, DELEGATE.
Madame President, Officers and Members
	of the National Council of Women
	of the United States.
	DEAR FRIENDS: A report from the Na-
tional Woman’s Relief Society was for-
warded in February of 1905 to the Trien-
nial at Washington, D. C. and the time
seems so short since then that there ap-
pears little to tell of things accomplished.
We can assure you, however, of the deep
interest we feel in the Council work, and
of our sympathy with individual workers
who are striving for the good of all, and
for the advancement of truth and right-
eousness.
	We know there is a vast army of wo-
men who are engaged in various depart-
ments of earnest endeavor to make better
the lives of those whose lines have not
been cast in pleasant places; and to these
grand women, we would extend the hand
of fellowship and wish them God speed
in every noble enterprise undertaken for
humanity.
	In looking back over the past year, al-
though we have kept up regular duties,
perhaps we ought not to regret that great
things we had desired have not been
brought about; for it is the little beautiful
acts of kindness, mercy and benevolence
that are after all, most helpful and uplift-
ing to the human soul, and in these small
things that do not count much upon paper,
our women do an infinite amount of good.
They minister in loving tenderness to the
sick and aged, who have not near and
dear ones by them, and when death comes
to the relief of suffering humanity, it is
the privilege of many to close the eyes
that can no longer see and clothe the body
in raiment suitable for burial; these are
the blessed opportunities of members of
our Society. No one can perform these
sacred duties without realizing the spirit
of that true charity spoken of by Paul the
Apostle, the “charity that never faileth,”
that blesses the giver ten fold in return.
Such labors refine and discipline the char-
acter and life of those who perform these 
ministrations in the spirit of true benevo-
lence.
	The ladies of the Council are many of
them somewhat acquainted with our
methods of work. We aim for the highest
and best in our undertakings, though we
often fall short of the standard we have
in mind.
	From our headquarters we send out to
the various organizations under the super-
vision of our General Board, not only let-
ters of instruction from our President, but
mlssionary sisters in pairs, to visit Con-
ferences in the several localities as care-
fully arranged beforehand. These sisters
not only speak publicly upon matters par-
taining to our work, but give advice to
those at a distance and assist in organiz-
ing new branches or in filling vacancies.
Often these trips are made where there
are no railroads and through mountainous
countries. This is really an important
part of our work, and very helpful to those
in remote places. For in these far off
districts away from busy towns, the work

[Column 2]
of caring for the sick and needy, the aged
and infirm is quite as necessary as in larger
places, and in many instances the needs
are greater because the facilities are not
at hand, or the skilled help to be obtained.
	We can truthfully say great good to
many thousands has been done by our
women through this organization, and we
are fully prepared to verify this assertion.
The classes of nurses that graduate each
year, is one of the most efficient ways of
helpfulness; and we are gratified with the
results of our Relief Society nurse classes
as a whole. Imagine what relief these
nurses carry into the homes where their
services are required, the very expression
and appearance of a trained nurse, who
loves her work, brings into a household
an atmosphere of repose and is a healing
balm to the sufferer. I think it has al-
ready been explained in a former report,
that the nurses trained under the auspices
of the Relief Society give a certain por-
tion of time to charity nursing; and this
gives to them an experience such as no
trained nurse who only attends where
families are able to pay can ever get, and
is more valuable as a life lesson, than
dollars and cents. These eharity nurses
going as they do into the homes of the
meek and lowly are, as it were, angels of
mercy in many instances, diffusing sun-
shine and radiance where darkness and
gloom had prevailed. Nursing is indeed
an elevating profession.
	Some years ago we introduced as a part
of our educational course what we term
mothers’ work into our Society; in a cer-
tain sense the training of young women
for motherhood had always been encour-
aged and much timely advice and instruc-
tion given in a general way, but we have
adopted of late years a more regular
method by having outlines prepared and
lectures in each ward Society on such sub-
jects as relate direct to the preparations
for motherhood and the rearing of chil-
dren. The good results have been appar-
ent in awakening dormant ideas and fac-
ulties, and inducing women who had latent
talent to use it for their own development
and to be helpful to others, their associ-
ates, their neighbors and friends, and for
the public good.
	The Relief Society has also much prac-
tical work to do, and calls into exercise
the executive ability of its members in 
accumulating means, and in handling, and
husbanding it resources. During this past
year many more buildings have been
erected in various wards and settlements
for Society purposes, and considerable
grain has been stored, and more granaries
have been built. This enterprise of stor-
ing grain is peculiar to the women of this
Society. Nowhere else in the world have
we ever heard of the women of any peo-
ple, or any Society, laying up grain against
a time of need, except in our organiza-
tions.
	It has been an interesting thing and a
labor that required some skill to manage.
There have been some losses, but in the
main the work has been successful. The
Jubilee year of the Church, of which the
Relief Society sisters are members, don-
ated two-thirds of the grain that had been
stored for the three years since the work
had been inaugurated for seed to the far-
mers, this was their offering to the poor,
and in some rare instances since in con-
sequence of losses in the wheat crop it
has been loaned out to good advantage,


[Column 1]
but never for speculation, and it is never
sold for money except when it is necess-
ary to dispose of old wheat and purchase
new. Many even of the small wards own
granaries that are filled with good wheat.
The women who serve in the Relief So-
ciety devote freely time and talents to the
amelioration of mankind, without expec-
tation of reward, save the reward of a
clear “conscience void of offence toward
God and all men.” It is a labor of love,
the consecration of all that they have and
are on the altar of their faith, to promote
good in the world, to make life happy for
their own, to build up genuine homes,
where peace and unity abide.
	Meantime, we believe in cultivating all
the graces of mind and body and in prom-
oting the highest in art, literature and
science, that the future of the generations
now living, and of those which are to
come, may be nearer perfection in attain-
ment than that of any race that has ever
inhabited this earth. That the earth it-
self may be cultivated, its waste places
made habitable and beautiful by the hands
of industry and the blessing of the Lord,
that the Western continent from North
to South and from East to West, and the
whole of this goodly land of America, may
be as free and desireable to dwell in as our
own glorious United States.
	In this good work women as well as
men, have been and are engaged and
none more so than our honored and be-
loved President of this Society, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, who has from her
early life been a woman of thrift and
enterprise, as well as economy. She is
therefore eminently qualified to stand at
the head and direct the efforts of these
hosts of workers, because she has passed
through the varied experiences of a long
and useful, as well as successful life. She
is in appearance a queenly woman, though
now nearing her 84th year, with all her
faculties in excellent preservation, and
her cheerful countenance and dignity of
manner betoken the innocence and purity
of the soul within.	
	We also wish to mention with tender-
ness in this report, the great loss to our
Society in the demise of one of our most
honored and revered sisters, the Treas-
urer of the General Society for 21 years,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, well known for-
merly to many of the leading women of
the Council, having been a delegate from
our Society in the Congress of Represent-
ative Women at the Columbian Expo-
sition in Chicago in 1893, and also par-
ticipating in its social entertainments.
Her address in the Art Palace attracted
much attention, when she related the
story of crossing the plains in 1847, and
the many peculiar circumstances of her
pioneer journeyings and experience.
	We desire to unite with the National
Council of Women in any Memorial Trib-
ute they may make to the memory of our
dearly beloved leader and General, Miss
Susan B. Anthony; and to express our
heartfelt love and veneration for her grand
and noble efforts for women everywhere

[Column 2]
throughout the world. We rejoice that
she lived so long and accomplished so
much for humanity; and we realize that
all our lives and the lives of all women
have been elevated to a higher standard
of excellence through her heroic exertions
and enterprise in behalf of her sex; and
we feel assured that the work she loved
so dearly and to which she consecrated
her life and talents will not slacken, but
that those whom she stimulated to these
high and holy purposes will strive to carry
it forward to its ultimate victory and tri-
umph.
	With greetings from the President and
officers of the National Woman’s Relief
Society.
		Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		General Secretary N. W. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


