[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 10 | Title: MARY GRAY. | Author: Unknown]

			MARY GRAY.
Thou art gone to the grave, we no longer behold
	thee,
Nor tread the rough path of the world by thy side.

	Gone from our mortal gaze indeed, but
not to the grave; the bright, beautiful
spirit, freed from the cares of earth and
the fetters of age, has but followed its
loved ones, and there is joy in the home,
“Not builded by hands.” today because of
her.
	Tears and sobs, the heritage of mortal-
ity, fell upon her pillow, and broke upon
the stillness of death, as she passed into
her last long sleep; but smiles and songs
of joy the rapture of delayed reunion,
met her there.
	How many who read the dear familiar
name will remember with full hearts how
the “rough paths” were almost pleasant
places where she led the way. With feet
that never faltered, and a heart whose
deep springs of love and abiding faith
never failed, she stood, even in the days
of her youth, a strength and support to
her widowed mother and family, and won
for herself many lifelong friends among
the strangers with whom their lot was
cast.
	No difficulty could bar her way, no
frown of fortune daunt her brave true
heart; shadows and doubt and dismay fled
from her bright presence as mist before
the morning sun.
	The writer looks back from this far dis-
tant land, down through the dim shad-
ows of years that have come and gone, to
the old home, where “Mary” was to her
childish eyes the embodiment of all that
was beautiful and lovely in life; the pic-
ture is there still, will never fade,
will never grow dim, and above it, Mem-
ory writes the words that the child might

[Column 2]
understand but could not express, “A
creature fresh from the hand of God.”
	That freshness of heart, that vitality,
that purity of mind and purpose, illu-
mined all the years of her life, and shone
from the coffined face whereon “joy of
the departing spirit had left its impress.”
	In her the friendless found a friend;
her heart had room and comfort for the
tempted and distressed; and in the hour
of sorrow, sickness and death how many
hearts have turned to Mary Gray, sure of
sympathy, of help and support, such as
comes only from hearts “wherein the
pure love of God aboundeth.”
	Mary Elizabeth Russell was the eldest
daughter of Isaac and Mary Walton Rus-
sell, and was born in the city of Toronto,
Canada, Feb, 11, 1833.
	After the death of her father, in 1844,
the family settled in the vicinity of Rich-
mond, Missouri, where they remained un-
til the year of 1861; in the spring of that
year commenced the long journey to Salt
Lake City, arriving at that place on the
13th of September.
	Mary E. Russell was married to An-
drew Scott Gray, March 15, 1862; she
was the mother of eight children, four
boys and four girls, of whom five survive
her. They are Andrew, John, Mary W.,
George R. Gray, Jennie I. Tanner and
Lucy R. Davey.
	Mary Gray was a faithful Latter-day
Saint up to the time of her death, and a
true and devoted wife and mother. Her
public duties were in connection with the
Relief Society, of which she was a mem-
ber from the time it was first organized,
and a counselor to President Sarah M.
Kimball; she was re-elected as first coun-
selor to H. A. Badger, which position she
held until the Fifteenth Ward was divid-
ed, in March, 1903, part of the ward being
joined to the Fourteenth and the other to
the Twenty-fourth as it was then.
	Sister Gray passed from this life Nov.
21st, 1905, after a short illness, while vis-
iting relatives and friends in Idaho Falls,
Idaho, her husband, Andrew Scott Gray
having preceded her May 8th, 1899.
					MILLICENT.


