[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 10 | Title: A PRETTY MAY DAY PARTY. | Author: Unknown]

	A PRETTY MAY DAY PARTY.
	A very beautiful day was Wednesday,
the third of May, 1906; the skies were
blue and the balmy air was filled with the
sweet fragrance of lilies, lilacs, and ap-
ple-blossoms. All nature seemed trying
to make the day glorious. It was the
eighty-fourth anniversary of the birthday
of the woman who stands pre-eminent be-
fore all other women in Zion, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, we call her “The
Elect Lady.” The committee of arrange-
ments who had been selected to take
charge of the affair, had made every pre-
paration carefully, Sister Rebecca E.
Little had opened her elegant home for
the happy occasion, and the rooms were
tastefully decorated with sweet flowers.
The guests were in gala spirits, waiting to
do honor to the fair lady whose natal
day they had assembled to celebrate.
	She was elegantly attired in a beautiful
white silk gown, every thread Utah silk,
and the entire fabric manufactured in
Salt Lake City and presented to her by
the ladies of the Board; the elegant lace
trimmings were of the finest quality, and
the scarf the lady wore upon her snow
white hair was the finest of Spanish lace.
Mrs. Smith is a typical Virginian lady,
stately, tall and dignified, graceful in
movement and gracious in manner. The
ladies gathered round her with congratu-
lations and gifts and a few gentlemen
who honored the occasion with their pres-
ence paid her marked attention. President
John R. Winder brought greetings from
the First Presidency to the lady, with
eighty-four pure white carnations, pre-
senting them in his genial way with the
usual compliments and congratulations.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas took charge
of the program, and called upon the
singers and speakers; after the opening
hymn and a speech from Apostle George
A, Smith about the Smith family. Sister
Emmeline B. Wells made an impromptu
address in behalf of the guests, and read
a Poem written expressly for the birthday
entitled “The Elect Lady,” in which the
guest of honor was crowned with a tiara
of lilies of the valley, a fitting symbol of
her singularly beautiful life, by Mrs.
Annie Wells Cannon. Following this,
the committee, Sisters J. P. M. Farns-
worth, Carrie S. Thomas, Isabel M. Sears
and Rebecca E. Little came forward, and
with a very pretty verse or two, crowned
her again with a wreath of magnificent
pink and white apple-blossoms. The

[Column 2]
Apostle-poet Orson F. Whitney,addressed
the lady in the most eloquent manner,
and in the choicest language, paying
homage to womanhood and especially to
the women of Zion.
	Apostle C. W. Penrose also eulogized
the lady in his own original happy man-
ner, and the affair was really a most en-
joyable event to all present. The menu
was of the choicest variety and daintily
served by the same committee of ladies.
Music and songs helped to enliven the
happy company. Sister Maggie Hull
favored the ladtes with some favorite old-
fashioned Scotch songs, in her peculiarly
expressive style with her rare rich
voice.
	It really seemed a perfect day through-
out without a shadow to mar the pleas-
ure of the guests. In after years those
younger sisters who participated on that
occasion will recall this party as a
momentous affair and remember this
magnificent gathering of beautiful women.
It was indeed a red letter day in woman’s
history.


[Column 1]
