[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | March | Issue: 6 | Title: The New President | Author: Unknown]

THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	Out of the multitudinous events that have
recently transpired and occur from day to
day it is difficult to select the most impor-
tant, and one feels as if one line about each
would fill volumes of space. But in the
United States during the present month of
March 1909—there has taken place one event
of paramount significance to the people of
this great Republic. The inauguration of
the new President Wm. H. Taft whom all
Republicans and doubtless many Democrats
seem to recognize as the best representative
for that position of all the people of this
country, except may be a few who still seem
to regret Theodore Roosevelt would not run
for a third term.
	The writer is not familiar enough with the
public affairs of this great work of adminis-
tration of the President and Cabinet to give
an opinion, but judging from those who do
know a great deal of the business of this
mighty nation—we may look for wisdom
justice and prudence in the management of
all the grave questions that confront the
American people in these days of momen-
tous problems and magnificent triumphs the
world oyer: in advancement along the lines
of higher achievement with infinitely greater
advantages and power for controlling the
forces of nature and the elements that are
to be made the important factors in revolu-
tionizing the world of thought and activ-


ity. It will be for the well-being of America
to have confidence in the man who stands
at the head of the greatest interests of this
land of the free of which with great pride
Americans boast. Confidence and faith in
the integrity and magnanimity of the great
leader helps tho nation, as it helps in any
cause of great magnitude.
	It was a significant omen of good when
Mrs. Taft rode to the White House with her
husband after the inauguration and the Pre-
sident stepped into the Executive Mansion
with a woman on his arm; it was the first
occasion of such an incident, and it is a sign
of the times, and yet why should it seem
strange when the centuries passed have wit-
nessed the coronation of many women sover-
eigns in their own right.


[Column 1]
