		ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.
	THIS great stateswoman (Mrs. Stanton)
has reached four score years in the scale of
time, but in the scale of progression who
can fathom the heights she has attained.
Looking backward over her long and event-
ful and extraordinary life, what wonderful
lessons may be learned from it. Her birth-
day was observed in many places in some
way calculated to do honor to the woman
and the cause she represents. As yet but
only the dispatches sent out by the associat-
ed press have reached here, of what was
done in New York at the celebration on the
12th of November.
	The entertainment was in the Metropoli-
tan Opera House, and was in the hands of
a very efficient Committee and under the
auspices of the National Council of Women
of the United States.
	Mrs. Stanton was born in Johnstown,
New York. Her father, Judge Daniel
Cady, was a distinguished and, it is said,
the oldest Judge who ever sat on an Ameri-
can bench, resigning at the age of 84 years.
Her mother also comes of a celebrated
family, her father was Col. James Living-
ston, who fired into the Vulture, which sent
the British vessel down the river and caused
Andre’s capture by our men.
	Mrs. Stanton with Lucretia Mott, the
venerable Quaker, called the first “Wo-
man’s Rights Convention” ever known; it
met at Seneca Falls, New York, July 19th
and 20th, 1848. A day which will be ever
memorable in the history of the country,
for it has brought about such changed con-
ditions to women and in public sentiment
and affairs, as no other meeting since the
days of the Declaration of Independence.
	Mrs. Stanton’s labors for half a century
can scarcely be estimated, but the results of
that labor upon the world will never be
obliterated, it is an immortal tribute to her,
and to the women who have participated
and assisted in the work, especially Susan
B. Anthony her life long friend and able
co-worker.
	Mrs. Stanton has ever been a model
housekeeper, a devoted wife and mother, a
good illustration of this is given in a little
circumstance which happened in Albany
when some women who were opposed to

