REMARKS BY MISS ANTHONY.
	Now my good friends, is it not remark-
able that when our Revolutionary Fathers
made this magnificent declaration: “That
all men are created equal: governments de-
rive their just power from the consent of the
governed: taxation and representation are
nseparable," that they should have pro-
ceeded thereupon to establish a government
practically in violation of every one of those
fundamental principles which they thus loud-
ly proclaim. Instead of a government
based upon the principle that every man
and consequently every woman is created
equal, they have based a government upon
the blood and bones of half a million
people who have been bought and sold as
chattels in the market; instead of basing
their government upon the consent of the
governed, they have based it upon the con-
sent of a few white men who were pos-
sessed of a certain amount of property; so
that instead of founding a government
with these principles a general Democratic
Republican form of government they
founded a white male aristocracy of wealth,
and the whole work of a hundred years and
more, since the establishment of this gov-
ernment has been in putting forth a barrier
to our progress and onr efforts have been to
remedy those injustices by advocating the
great principle of equality. In the old
Colonial days property qualification was re-
quired, and when that property qualifica-
tion was removed we had established in the
United States not a Demoratic form of gov-
ernment, not a Republican form of govern-
ment but simply a white male aristocracy;
then the first great battle was fought which
demolished the color line so that no dis-
tinction could be made in suffrage in any
state in the Union on account of race,
color or previous condition of servitude;
and from that day we have had a male
aristocracy and the first state or territory to
break this great line of demarkation of sex
was Wyoming. In 1869 Wyoming Ter-
ritory passed a law giving women equal
rights of suffrage with the men and im-
mediately following Wyoming was this
Territory of Utah giving women the equal
right to vote with the men, and you know
the history and reason that this Territory
has not continued granting to women this
constitutional right. But the Wyoming wo-
men have voted from the beginning, while
your women voted for 17 years in this Ter-
ritory but the government interfered and
took away from the women of the Territory
the right to vote—I as one, and my friend
Mrs. Stanton another, always declared that

[Column 3]
since the national government did refuse at
the close of the war to interfere with our
states and to declare the true interpretation
of the XIV Amendment, enfranchised the
women of the nation as well as the colored
men of the nation, we declared to them
that the XIV Amendment which reads,
“All persons born or naturalized in the
United States and subject to the jurisdiction
thereof, are citizens of the United States
and no state shall make or enforce laws
which shall abridge the privileges and im-
munities of the citizens of the United
States; we declared by that amendment
the states were prevented from denying
the rights and privileges of voting to the
women as well as the men; but the Supreme
Court decided against us and Congress de-
cided against us, and when Congress and
the National Government had refused to
interfere with the states for the protection
of the citizens rights to the privileges and
immunities of citizenship then we made
our protest. But when Wyoming after 25
years came into the Union with its whole
citizenship, giving the right to vote to all
who could read the Constitution of the
State and of the United States in the
English language, then we felt that the day
of woman’s freedom had really dawned,
and after the enemies of woman suffrage
on the floor of Congress had made their
proudest fight to withhold that right from
us; but justice prevailed, and when the
majority of congress voted for the admission
of Wyoming with Woman Suffrage, we
knew that victory would yet be ours, and
we know today that when your Constitu-
tional Convention made your suffrage
clause after the fashion of Wyoming, giv-
ing to every citizen of the State who had
the proper qualification the right to vote,
we know that when your constitution shall
have been adopted or "ratified by the
majority of the voters of your State, and
shall go up to Washington next winter
knocking at the door for admission into the
Union, we know that Congress will admit
Utah with full suffrage to her women just
as well as Congress admitted Wyoming
with full suffrage to women. If this Ter-
ritory is made a state it will be made a
state with the full equality of right to wo-
men established in the organic law of the
state (applause) beyond the power, thank
God, of any congress or state, to interfere
again with the full and free exercise of the
right of suffrage belonging to the people of
the state of Utah. Now during the years
in which the battles have been going on in
Utah and Wyoming, we have had the bat-
tles going on in all the states of the Union;
we have petitioned our state legislatures
from year to year to submit the proposition
for suffrage for women—begging legislatures
to extend municipal suffrage to women by
legislative enactment and in every pos-
sible way have agitated the subject. We
have been going to Congress every year for
a quarter of a century or more, asking Con-
gress for a XVI Amendment to the Con-
stitution enfranchising women, we went up
there in ’69 at the same time that the wo-
men of Wyoming and the women of Utah
were enfranchised by their territorial legis-
latures, and from that time up to this year
we have gone to Washington every year
before the Committees of the two houses
and a number of other bodies, to petition
them to pass a resolution submitting this
proposition for a XVI Amendment, the en-
franchisement of the women of the nation.
This has been the great work that has been


[Column 1]
going on from time to time. In 1887 six-
teen senators on the floor of the Senate of
the United States, voted in favor of the sub-
mission of a separate amendment in favor
of Woman Suffrage, but oh dear, I don’t
know how many voted “no.” Sometimes
our friends are pleased to tell us in private,
they aim to have business to be absent when
the vote is taken.
	Now in the different states of the union
in which the women have been making de-
mands on the floor of the different legisla-
tures of their states for submitting the
proposition, ten different states from time to
time have submitted that proposition.
Kansas was the first. In 1867 at the close
of the best campaign that was made in the
state 9,070 men voted “yes” and 18,000
voted “no.” In 1874 Michigan submitted
the question, and after we had sent all the
speakers we could to help Michigan make
a great educational campaign 40,000 of the
best men in the state voted “yes” and
80,000 voted “no.” We have made a hard
fight and kept up a perpetual agitation on
this question for a quarter of a century,
such as the world has never witnessed on
any other question by any other people
we have done work enough, held conven-
tions enough, made appeals enough, cir-
culated pamphlets and newspapers enough
to have converted the whole world and car-
ried everything which we have demanded,
except for the fact that we who made the
fight had no political power, we had no
power to make or enact a single law or a
single office holder. If we had the power
behind us, had we the privilege to vote in
this nation we would not ask in vain. (Ap-
plause.) In 1870 when Colorado needed
our services we buckled on our harness, and
went out there before railroads were built,
and I traveled over the magnificent
mountains and magnificent valleys a great
deal of the way on a buck-board hundreds
of miles, and we had performed our best
work and the question came to the ballot
box 6,666 voted “yes” and 12,000 voted
“no.” You see how general the education
is. Then in 1882 came Nebraska with a
similar result; in 1884 Oregon; in 1886 R. I.
(Rhode Island;) in 1889 Washington; in
1890 South Dakota and then again we have
the same result, two to one virtually.
South Dakota was a new state; the very
first settlement was in 1882; in 1890 the
question was submitted; the total vote of
that state was 70,000; out of the 70,000
votes cast 40,000 were native born, more
than 30,000 were foreigners. I will not
stop to tell you of all the preliminary ex-
ercises or details but we held a convention
and raised $5,000 and paid the travelling
expenses of the best speakers we had in all
the country, and sent them up to South
Dakota and carried on the campaign for
six months, the best we possibly could; but
when election day came 24,000 out of the
40,000 native born voted “no” and the
whole solid 30,000 foreign born men, the
best portion of them Russians voted “no.”
You cannot expect those who emigrate to
this country from the old world where they
had no rights whatever, where they were
ground under the heel of despotism to think
that women should have any rights. At
least if you do expect it you will always be
disappointed. They have been educated
simply in selfishness, they never seem to
dream of a possibility or necessity for women
to have rights extended in any possible
direction. They come here simply to bet-

