	MR. AND MRS. EDWARD STEVENSON in-
vited a party of friends to celebrate the for-
tieth anniversary of their marriage at their
residence in this city on Monday, October
28, 1895. It was a very pleasant affair,
and the guests, about forty in number, were
served with a sumptuous dinner in keeping
with their proverbial hospitality, Mrs
Stevenson is a very gracious hostess and
always entertains generously. The so-
cial chat indulged in during the early part
of the evening with congratulations to the
host and hostess, the greetings to each in
turn as new arrivals were ushered in, was
quite enjoyable and after dinner Brother
Stevenson called upon some of those pres-
ent to say a few words, and such occasions
call for expressions of sentiment from old
time friends. President Angus M. Cannon
made congratulatory remarks, alluded to his
long acquaintance with the family and the
integrity and zeal of Brother and Sister
Stevenson in the Gospel and touched upon
the topics of the times. Mrs. E. B. Wells
tendered sincere congratulations, and re-
ferred to the many pleasant gatherings
there, when those who had since passed be-
hind the vail had been present with words
of good cheer and encouragement.
	President Joseph F. Smith expressed his


pleasure in meeting with those who had
labored so long and diligently in the inter-
ests of the Gospel, and congratulated
Brother and Sister Steveuson, wishing
them many years of happiness and
prosperity together, and spoke in a very in-
teresting manner of the past, present and
future.
	Brother Stevenson occupied a short time,
speaking of his earlier life, and his singular
experiences, rejoiced that he had been
favored of the Lord in so many ways, ex-
pressed his regard and appreciation of the
kindness and good wishes of his friends,
and alluded in an interesting way to his re-
cent journey East.
	Brother Stevenson is a traveling mis-
sionary as indeed are all the seven Presi-
dents of Seventies, the quorum of which
he is a member; he has collected many
choice photographs and pictures of historical
value; with which he illustrates his public
lectures, and they are also very entertain-
ing as reminescences of history and of the
waste places of Zion.
	There were a number of people present
whom it would have been very edifying to
listen to, some of them, veterans in the
Church, but as the hour was growing late
Patriarch Joseph Horne was asked to pro-
nounce the benediction and the party broke
up.
	Among those present, besides those men-
tioned, who may be counted as veterans in
the Church, were Bishop R. T. Burton and
wife, Elder Ezra T. Clark and wife, of
Farmington, Patriarch Joseph Horne and
wife, we must also mention Bishop George
H. Taylor and wife, his Counselor T. E.
Taylor and wife, Sisters Jane B. Taylor,
Elizabeth Webb, Mary Alice Lambert,
Emily H. Cannon, Hannah C. Wells,
Maria W. Wilcox, Lucy W. Kimball, Mary
Ann Taylor, Mary E. Carter, and many
others. The regret of the evening was the
unavoidable absence of Presidents Wood-
ruff and Cannon, and Sister Zina D. H.
Young.
	The EXPONENT extends congratulations
to Brother and Sister Stevenson wishing
them many more such anniversaries and
reunions of friends and an eternity of un-
alloyed happiness in the hereafter.


