[Column 2]
so it may be said she died of old age as she had
no disease and was sick only a few weeks. She
died in the presence of her husband, two sons
and her daughter, and all was done that loving
hands could do for her. She died firm in the
faith of a glorious resurrection with the just.
								G. H. C.

	IT becomes our painful duty to record the death
of one of our dear sisters of the Relief Society.
	Sister Ingri Peterson Meyer was born Nov. 16,
1840 in Fru Alstad, Malino, Hus-Legn, Sweden.
She came to Vandrup, Denmark, in the year 1867,
where she met and married Christian Meyer,
Nov. 22nd, 1874.
	She, with her husband, was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on
the 27th, of February, 1877, in Vandrup, Den-
mark. They emigrated to Utah in June of the
same year. Resided in and around Nephi, Juab
Co., for two years, then moved to Vermillion
Ward, Sevier Co.
	She was a teacher in the Relief Society, which
office she held at the time of her death. She al-
so held the position of first Counselor in the Y.
L.M. I. A. for many years; both positions she
honorably filled. Sister Meyer was a Latter-day
Saint in very deed; she,was an earnest worker for
the cause of truth, was kind and benevolent to
all around her; and though she was sick for a
long time she was never heard to complain, but
bore her lot like a true Saint of God. She died
Oct. 25th. 1895, at Sigurd (formerly a part of
Vermillion Ward,) surrounded by her family and
many friends. She leaves a husband, two sons
and one adopted daughter, to mourn her loss.
	May she rest in peace.
						REBECCA NEBEKER,
			Committee{	VIOLET IVIE,
						MINNIE S. DASTRUP.
Sigurd, Nov. 6th, 1895.
				Scandinavian Star, please copy.
MRS. SARAH CHAPMAN ELDREDGE.
RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of
Sister Sinah Chipman Eldredge, who died of
pneumonia, in American Fork, Sep. 27, 1895.
	She was born September 11, 1831, in Leeds Co.
Canada West; she joined the Church, when eight
years old, and moved with her parents, Stephen
and Amanda Chipman, to Missouri, thence to
Iowa, from there to Council Bluffs, then came to
Salt Lake City, in Sep. 1847, where she resided
until the spring of 1851, when she moved to
American Fork, residing there until the time of
her death. She was sick for about five months,
during which time she manifested great faith and
resignation to the will of her Heavenly Father.
	She leaves four children, one son and three
daughters to mourn her loss; also, quite a num-
ber of grand children and great grand-children.
	She was a true Latter-day Saint, and has faith-
fully discharged the duties of a teacher in the
Relief Society since its first organization until
three years ago, when she desired to be released
on account of failing health.
	She took great pleasure in testifying to the
children of the saints concerning the Divine Mis-
sion of the Prophet Joseph Smith whom she had
seen and heard.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we the members
of the Relief Society do sympathize with the be-
reaved family in their loss of a loving mother,and
pray God. our Heavenly Father, to comfort and
bless them and help them to realize that their loss
will be her eternal gain.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, also be spread upon
our records, and one sent to the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT for publication.
					ELLEN D. CLARKE.
		Committee{	EMMA FEATHERSTONE.
