RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTION of respect, adopted by the of-
ficers and members of the 17th Ward Relief
Society, to the memory of the late Emma G.
Bull who died, Oct. 24, 1895, at her residence,
after a short illness.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has removed
from this sphere of action our beloved secretary,
Sister Bull.
	Resolved, that we do recognize in the death of
Sister Bull the loss of a faithful, energetic, reliable
secretary, a friend to the needy a comforter in the
hour of trouble, a devoted wife and mother and
true Latter-day Saint, that we esteem her faithful
labors and devotion to the interests of Zion as
worthy the emulation of every member of our
society.
	Resolved, that we condole and sincerely
sympathize with the bereaved husband, children
and friends in the loss of a faithful wife, loving
mother and sincere friend.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon
the records of the 17th Ward Relief Society and
that we publish the same in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.
	MRS. B. W. SMITH, Prest.
	MRS. A. T. HYDE, Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	SISTER FRANCIS CROSBY BROWN died at her
home in Nutrioso, Apache Co, Arizona, on Oct.
12th, 1895.
	Sister Brown was born in Yarmouth, Nova
Scotia, Oct 31st, 1817, her parents were Joshua
and Hannah Cann Crosby. She was baptized a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, Dec. 10th, 1838, in Chatauqua Co.
New York. She gathered with the Saints at
Commerce, afterwards called Nauvoo, Ills., June
6th, 1839, in company with her mother, three
brothers, John K., Obed and Jessie W. Crosby
and sisters Hannah Crosby Mumford, and Eliza
Crosby Turrill. Her mother Hannah Cann
Crosby was the first Latter-day Saint who died at
Nauvoo and Mother Huntington, mother of Aunt
Zina and Brother William Huntington, was the
second person, one died in the evening and the
other in the morning, and their funeral services
were held together and Elder Sidney Rigdom did
the preaching.
	Sister Brown is the last of this Crosby family
except John K. Crosby, of Bountiful Davis Co.
who is over eighty years of age; and they all died
firm in the faith of the Gospel. She was married
to Lorenzo Brown in Nauvoo, March 24th, 1844,
the Prophet Joseph Smith officating, by which
marriage she had three sons and one daughter,
all of whom are still living.  She has 33 grand
and great-grand children living. She received
her blessings &c., in the Nauvoo Temple, Jan. 12,
1846. Suffered with her co-religonists in that
memorial exodus from Nauvoo, Ill., and reached
Salt Lake Valley Sept. 21st, 1848, and after a
short stay in the old fort located in the seventh
ward just north of the home of Bishop Thomas
Jenkins. She moved with her husband and family
to St. George, Washington Co. Utah, in 1862,and
may really be called a pioneer in the settlements
of Nauvoo, Salt Lake and St. George. Brother
and Sister Brown were called to labor as regular
assistants in the St. George Temple, by President
Brigham Young when it was opened in 1877.
	She moved to Arizona in 1883, and located at
Nutrioso; Sister Brown held the position of Stake
Secretary of Relief Society in the St. George
Stake for several year. She has also acted as
Ward President of the Relief Society in Nutrioso
during which time the sisters built a nice hall,
the best in this stake of Zion. Sister Brown
would have been 78 years old had she lived till
the 31st.
	She had a paralytic stroke Sep, 5th, 1895, by
which she lost the use of her right side, up to
which time she attended to her household duties,

