[Column 2]
	There have been many things said about
the ballot unsexing women, that they
would neglect their homes, that they would
become masculine etc. This was said to us
a great many years ago. We who have
been here a number of years realize that
we had the ballot for 17 years, and I would
like to ask the question what home has
been injured, what family has been
neglected, who became masculine? It has
not taken away any of our motherly feel-
ings. Has it unsexed us? We went to
the polls, the gentlemen opened the way
for us, we passed in our vote and I would
be glad if we could induce all the men and
women to believe in equal suffrage for both
sexes. God created us equal, we stood side
by side when mankind was created and man
has no right to say “I am the master.”
God gave our first parents the freedom of
the earth, he told them to go forth and in-
habit the earth, but even the freedom which
he gave to man is taken away from us, but
the time is coming when women will stand
side by side with man, that they may
work together. It would be much better
if they could work in union and homes
would be happier. I don’t feel that it
would be wise for me to continue my re-
marks but as Miss Anthony said, to think
that we crossed these dreary plains with
ox teams in ’47, when this valley was a
dry desert country, and all that we
possessed was an ox team and one year’s
provisions, which we had to bring with us
before we knew whether the country would
produce it, and as Miss Shaw said yesterday
it took a good deal of moral courage and
faith in God to live through those circum-
stances. When our grain was grown much
of it had to be pulled up by the roots. We
were eating our last sack of flour and the
crickets eating our fields of grain, and star-
vation stared us in the face to that extent
that we did not know but that we would
all die of starvation; but the Lord sent the
gulls and they devoured the crickets and
disgorged them and devoured them again.
That is a sample of the trials that attended
us in settling this valley. I have talked
long enough and I hope that we shall suc-
ceed in our great cause.
	Mrs. Wells:—Ladies and Gentlemen:
This is Mrs. E. H. Parsons.
REMARKS BY MRS. E. H. PARSONS.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: So much has
been said by those who preceded me that
there is nothing left for me to say except,
that I am very glad to have the opportunity
to welcome these noble ladies who have
done so much for the cause, and who for so
many years have had to undergo discourage-
ments and rebuffs. It is now time to think
of the other half of humanity. It is 20
minutes past 12 and I have duties to call
me at half past 12. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony: I have the pleasure to
present to you the Hon. J. R. Murdock of
this Territory, who was in the legislature
of 1869 and 1870 when suffrage was first
extended to the women of this Territory,
and he was an honorable member of the
Constitutional Convention and is an ardent
believer in the suffrage question.
REMARKS BY HON. J. R. MURDOCK.
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
	I fully appreciate this distinguished honor
which has been extended to me on this oc-
casion. I certainly have been gratified to
be present here to listen to the noble words


[Column 1]
that have been uttered by Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw and those other ladies who
have spoken, and it seems to me that there
is nothing left that I could say that would
be gratifying or interesting to you, but I
certainly feel a thorough sympathy in the
cause of Woman Suffrage—I have ever felt
so from the time that suffrage was first
given to them, in fact before. When it was
put forth in the legislature I very readily
consented to give it my influence and my
support and I have no fear of the results of
giving suffrage to the women of Utah, we
had it as has been said in common with the
men, and the women went to the polls and
cast their ballot and no evil resulted from it.
Of course Woman Suffrage like all other
new theories that have been advanced has
met with distrust and misgiving; but I feel
gratified and pleased that I myself was of
the number that recently in the Convention
cast my vote and my voice in the interest
of equal suffrage to humanity in this Ter-
ritory, which I trust and hope will be so
perfect in the estimation of the people that
it will receive their endorsement and sanc-
tion. Of course there may be women who
are opposed to suffrage, but I think the
sympathy and the feelings of the people
generally is gaining ground in the interest
of suffrage, and I think it will continue to
do so and I think eventually it will extend
throughout this broad land, this great Re-
public of which you and I are a part. I
think it will extend to every nation. As
we find civilization increase and advance,
we find there is more liberty and freedom
extended to the human race. If we take
history in the early ages when man was in
semi-barbarism women have had less free-
dom than when they became more civilized.
As civilization extends from the Far East
to the Far West there will be more freedom
extended to every class and community,and
for that reason we should not fail to strug-
gle on until every daughter has free and
equal rights with man. This is my feeling
and my desire and I shall do all in my
power to promote it. I have been associated
with an organization to some extent, and I
am an honorary member in the County of
Beaver, and we have some very excellent
organizations and I am pleased to see the
progress that is being made there, and it
will grow and increase, and we must not
forget that all the good things that come
to the human family come with some labor
and some exertion and we ought to put
forth our might, our influence and our
voice to promote these things that are so
excellent and are of so much consequence
to us when we become acquainted with them.
The great difficulty with the people is that
they are not educated in this principle, it
has not been explained to them although it
has been in their midst. So many are care-
less and indifferent, it is only a small por-
tion of the women that take the interest
that they should, and that they will when
they can become better acquainted with
what is to their interest. It is no less so
with the women part of the community
than it is with the men when anything new
is introduced into their midst, they look up-
on every new theory with distrust. I feel
highly pleased at the progress that has been
made by the noble ladies who have come
from the far-off part of the country to ad-
vise, promote and advance their ideas in
behalf of suffrage for the women of our
Territory, and I congratulate myself that I
have the privilege of meeting them, and I
congratulate you ladies for the privilege

