[Column 2]
	THE following cities in Michigan, among
others, have this year elected women for
school trustees: Detroit, Ann Arbor, Grand
Rapids, Port Huron, Flint, Saginaw, Bay
City, Albion, Battle Creek, Kalamazoo,
Ypsilanti, Jackson. In Battle Creek one
woman was chosen president, another
secretary, and in Jackson a woman was
made treasurer of the board.
	MRS. ORMISTON CHANT received a visit
at hfer home in London this summer from
Rev. S. J. Barrows, who has just published
in the Christian Register a delightful
picture of her home, drawn from his own
observation. Mrs. Chant has been sur-
feited with newspaper praises, but she took
great pleasure in Mr. Barrows’ letter,
‘because,” she said, “it does justice to my
husband.” It has been a regret to Mrs.
Chant that the papers, while loading her
with compliments, have known and said so
little about the man who has been her con-
stant support and inspiration in all her re-
form work.—Ex.
	ACTIVE efforts and a large expenditure
of money, including a fund raised by the
Liquor Dealer’s Association of the State—
circulars addressed personally to the lead-
ing political workers of both parties in
every town and city, posters, flyers, and
the vigorous use of party machinery—such
were the means employed by the opponents
of woman suffrage. While they no doubt
ncreased the adverse majority, they have
brought the subject to public attention as
never before, and have given the suffragists
the names of friends and co-workers in
four localities where they had one before.
The agitation will henceforth be vastly
broadened and extended, for which we
heartily thank our opponents. Woman
suffrage has made more converts in Mas-
sachusetts during the past month than in
any previous year.—Boston Woman's
Journal.
	PERHAPS it is not too much to assert that
the majority of women have very
nadequate conceptions of the value and ex-
tent of time. The man of business learns
to understand just what five minutes will
do and what it means. It may mark the
limit of banking hours or the departure of
an important train. Promptness is so great
an essential in business circles, and a few
wasted moments may mean so much of
gain or loss or wasted opportunity, that
men are forced to learn the value of time,
and less frequently than women under-esti-
mate its uses. The woman who, in fem-
nine parlance, “accomplishes” much is the
woman who has learned to use and save
her minutes. Many women who are really
ndustrious think nothing of squandering
ten or fifteen minutes in an unmeaning, un-
satisfactory chat with an acquaintance,
then wonder at the close of the day what
has become of the hours. A very few.
misspent hours destroy a day’s usefulness.
Almost as deplorable as the waster of time
in gossip is the woman who never has time
for a pleasant chat with her friends, and
whose mind is so crowded with household
or social cares that she inwardly begrudges
the time given to a caller. However, there
is a happy medium between these extremes,
which it is well worth every woman’s
while to strive for. Time means golden
opportunities for so many helpful, interest-
ing occupations. Balzac says that in Paris
everybody wants to find a twenty-fifth


hour among the twenty-four. In our own
country we are looking away beyond that,
and would welcome the addition of a round
dozen hours to the calendar day.
	 MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE met with a
serious accident in New Orleans, While
she was out riding with a friend, an elec-
tric car struck the carriage, dashing it to
splinters. Happily, neither of the inmates
was killed but Mrs. Howe was thrown
violently to the ground, and, besides the
fall and the shock, she received injuries
about the knees, how serious we have not
yet heard. Her many friends will await
further news with anxious interest.—Ex.


