	And the suns that are not yet high, 
And out of the infinite morning
	Intrepid you hear us cry—
How, spite of your human scorning,
	Once more God’s future draws nigh,
And already goes forth the warning
	That ye of the past must die.

Great hail! we cry to the comers
	From the dazzling unknown shore;
Bring us hither your sun and your summers,
	And renew our world as of yore;
You shall teach us your song’s new numbers;
	And things that we dreamed not before:
Yea, in spite of a dreamer who slumbers,
	And a singer who sings no more.
							A. O. S.


[column 1]
		IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XLIX.
	AS might be expected Conway Bland
passed his examinations, difficult though
they were, for his training had been
thorough, and entered the University with
good expectations of success while Sidney
Barrington was still in England, looking
after legal matters, and trying to induce
young Walton to return with him to
America, or to enter one of the colleges and
fit himself for some sort of life-work; but
he had a decided preference for sporting, and
being handsome and fascinating, and meet-
ing with men who were of like propensities,
he was won over by them to accept invita-
tions, to go here and there, and would not
listen to Mr. Barrington’s persuasions, not
even though his sister and aunt, plead with
him by letter, not to remain longer away
from them. His step-mother was anxious
too that he should leave England, she
dreaded the responsibility, and also the ex-
pense; she had found him rather un-
scrupulous, and knowing the kind of com-
pany he was keeping, she added her en-
treaties to those of Sidney Barrington, to
induce him to break his engagements and go
to his own kindred. All to no purpose, he
determined to take his own course.
	Sidney dreaded to go without him, feel-
ing sure Mrs. Harrison would be disap-
pointed, but he was compelled to do so
nevertheless, as his stay had already been
greatly prolonged. Mrs. Harrison grieved
over Edward deeply, and sometimes felt she
must go to him, and see what her presence
would do. He seldom answered the loving
and tender letters from home, so absorbed
was he in the gaieties of the fashionable
world he found ready to welcome him.
Through the influence of unprincipled men
he obtained possession of much of the
property, which rightfully belonged to his
cousin Edward Hilliard, and afterwards
managed to defraud them all sufficiently to
live at the old castle, and later on, years
after, at the death of Lady Walton, he came
into possession of Walton Hall, so that he
was master of two estates, (such as they
were.) He kept up gay bachelor’s apart-
ments, and was not given to spending
money in any legitimate way.

