[Column 2]
in to ask, mamma’s consent, and yours
later on, but as you have taken the affair
up and pronounced judgment—we will
listen to you first, if mamma is willing.”
	Taken completely by surprise Mrs. Har-
rison was unable to speak for a few
moments, but Clarice did not lose her
presence of mind for a minute, and with
her characteristic, girlish assurance and free-
dom of speech, opened her mind much to
Anna’s discomfort, “Well Dr. Conway since
you are in love with Anna its all right,
what I was afraid of was, that you were
not, and that she was bestowing her af-
fections upon one, who loved his profession
more than he loved a beautiful woman.”
It was vain for the Doctor to try to restrain
Clarice, she knew more about love or
fancied she did than either one of the family;
and her mother was so surprised, both at
the torrent of feeling displayed by her little
daughter, and the sudden denoument of
her son and Anna Walton, that she was
speechless.
	Her cousin Anna's escapades flashed into
her mind and she recalled the impetuosity
of her disposition, and though little Anna
had never betrayed such violent emotions,
yet her aunt inwardly trembled, and con-
cluded the best course would be to allow
these young people to have their own way.
Very little was said except consent given,
and preparations were soon in progress for
the proposed marriage. Everything was
done in a simple way, though Mrs. Har-
rison knew how to make the best of all
their belongings, and the bride was not
lacking in elegant laces, pearls and jewelry,
left by her mother, which had been put
away carefully until Anna could appreciate
them. Clarice interested herself even more
than the bride in the wedding apparel, and
the young Doctor and his cousin Edward
as well as uncle Sidney, busied themselves
with the new dwelling place.
	During the weeks previous to the wed-
ding when all the household were very
busy, or at night when others were asleep,
Mrs. Harrison reasoned with herself on the
matter, and queried whether she had been
the true mother to these two young girls,
whose lives and ways were a perfect
mystery to her, though associated with
them daily from their infancy; in her cousin
Anna’s case the French maids and gover-
nesses had been blamed, Sir. Edward’s
neglect of his daughter had been a factor
considered in her waywardness, she had
grown up under peculiar circumstances and
influences, but where was the lack in the
case of Anna Walton? And was it not
likely that Clarice might also fall desperate-
ly in love, even now her affections might
unconsciously be straying from her own
mother, and Mrs. Harrison shuddered as
she reflected what that would mean.
	“Afterall I do not understand women,
nor the potent power of love in the hearts
of the young, I blamed uncle Edward for
not knowing womens’ natures better and
here am I, at my time of life a woman too
who has made a study of the subject, and
find myself outwitted by my own child-
ren;” ’twas thus Mrs. Harrison soliloquized,
and there was no one to whom she could
look for sympathy or advice. Yes there
was Sidney, but he could not know any-
thing of young people’s affairs especially
women, and she thought of his barren life,
and in her heart she pitied his loneliness,
how was it she had never thought of it be-
fore, she said to herself, “he has given his

[Column 3]
life to help others, mine, my loved ones,”
she repeated aloud, “unselfishly without,
hope of reward what grandeur of senti-
ment,” and she began to feel somewhat of
a culprit to have received so much at his
hands, and made no return. No she would
not trouble him with her feelings, she
would be more watchful now of Clarice,
and of Edward who was as refined and
delicate as a girl,and who inclined to moods,
musical and gay at times, despondent and
melancholy by fits and starts.
	The marriage of Conway Bland and
Anna Walton was duly solemnized in the 
Church near by, Sidney Barrington
officiating in the simple orthodox
ceremony. It was very sad for Mrs.
Harrison, but she bore up bravely and
only the few intimate friends who witnessed
the ceremony were bidden to the feast which
had been prepared. How unlike the
elaborate wedding of Anna’s mother; there
was no wedding journey, for these people
conformed to the Puritan ways and
methods they went quietly to their own
home and passed their honey-moon in visit-
ing the sick and comforting with gentle
words and glad hearts, and with such
delicacies as were available, the afflicted
ones who felt their presence almost a bene-
diction. But while their lives swept on
peacefully, Mrs. Harrison was tortured
with anxiety and misgivings. Clarice was
wilful and outspoken, singularly gifted too
in some respects, and always longing for
the unattainable; every now and then her
mother was obliged to succumb to some
ridiculous whim, or fancy; and each time
she resolved to be stronger in the future;
she who had controlled the obstinate
Baronet, could not cope with her own
daughter, do what she would.
	It is said truly there are none so blind as
those who will not see, and though a serious
love affair was going on in her home, Mrs.
Harrison was ignorant of the fact. Sidney
Barrington wasin the confidence of Edward
Hilliard and the boy opened his heart to
the minister who had been his tutor for so
many years. “You know I’m alone in the
world” he said, “for though Aunt Jane is
like a mother to me in one sense, yet she is
not my mother, nor do I know the true
meaning of either father or mother, some-
times I feel I must go away where I shall
not trouble anyone, and brood over my sor-
rows, and yet uncle Sidney I cannot bring
myself to say farewell to Clarice. I am
sure her mother will never consent to our
union and I have not even dared to tell her
of my love; I saw how Aunt Jane grieved
when Conway and Anna were married, she
has never been herself since that time, she
goes about like one in a dream, tell me
uncle Sidney, what shall I do?”
	Thus appealed to, Sidney Barrington
could not but sympathize with his dearest
pupil, for indeed he was, and he promised
to consider the matter, “but,” he added,
“never run away, it is only the weakest
men who do that, ‘faint heart never won
fair lady.” And Edward promised to wait
awhile until his uncle should make up his
mind what was best. Ere he turned to go,
for they were out under the great elms,
he said inadvertently, “uncle Sidney were
you ever in love and have you been disap-
pointed?” No one had ever put such a
question to the minister before and he
winced under such sharp questioning, and
Edward, noticing his reluctance, said, “O,
never mind, if you do not care to tell me,


only I thought perhaps it might help me
to know how you were cured.” And Ed-
ward walked away, leaving his uncle pac-
ing to and fro under the elms. He called
him back ere he reached the doorway, and
said, “I’ll tell you a story, my boy, it may
help you, it may give you courage.”


