CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, I3, AND
	14, 1895.
[Continued.]
	Mrs. Wells: This is Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne who came into the Valley in 1847,
and I venture to say has done as much
work in this part of the country, and per-
haps more than almost any other woman.
 Miss Anthony: Mrs. Horne came here
in ’47. Just think of it—two years before
gold was discovered in California and one
year before Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote
the resolution that enfranchisement was the
underlying right which women must de-
mand in order to secure liberty and equality
for women—one year before the Woman’s
Suffrage Convention was held at Seneca
Falls this woman crossed the plains, think
of it. She don’t look as if she ever did
much.
	REMARKS BY M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—I assure you it
is very unexpected for me to be called upon
to address you this morning and particularly
after the eloquent addresses which you have
heard from those ladies, our visitors. I
have been a great worker in this Territory
and a great believer in Suffrage as long as I
can remember; in fact I don’t remember the
time when I didn’t think it was wrong to
show so much difference between men and
women. I was always advocating wo-
man’s rights and woman’s elevation from
my earliest recollection. I have not had
the privilege of working in the suffrage
cause particularly of late years as I would
like, as I have had so many other things
pressing upon me and claiming my atten-
tion; but I am heart and soul imbued with
the cause and I rejoice most exceedingly in
the remarks which have been made before
us this morning and I hope every one has
enjoyed them as much as I have. They
have sunk deep into my heart, and I ap-
prove of the principle which those noble
women have set before you so clearly and
so intelligently, and it seems almost like
wasting time to invite me to speak this
morning after hearing what has been said
by our late visitors. I am heart and soul
with you and also feel that we should be
congratulated, as they have congratulated
us, in view of our becoming a state with
equal suffrage in the Constitution and look
with great hope that we shall receive. that
right.

