[column 2]
	After a few years Conway graduated-
with the highest honors and sailed for home;
he did not even make an attempt to see
Edward Walton, nor did he know of his
disgraceful doings.
	Conway’s return was hailed with joy by
all the friends of the family, and the mother
though happy and proud of the handsome
and accomplished young Doctor, from
whom she had been so long separated, yet
could not but treat him still as her boy, and
soon found an opportunity to inquire what
he meant to do in the future.
	“Why, mother I intend to practice my
profession right here at home, among those
who have always known me, and who,
many of them, knew my father’s reputation,
by tradition, at least, and in due time I
shall marry, with your consent, my cousin
Anna, whom I have loved all my life, and
who returns my affection after her own shy
fashion, but does not know it is more than
cousinly.’’
	“My boy, how happy it makes me to
know you are satisfied with your surround-
ings here, and are content to build up a
practice where you can do so much good in
an unostentatious way; so like your father,
and I know he would approve your course;
but for Anna I cannot agree with you—it
seems to me you are over-confident—Anna
knows nothing whatever of men, she is en-
tirely unsophisticated, and you, my boy,
have been out in the great world, mingling
with men of science and skilled in all sorts
of arts; we hardly know, as yet, how
suitable you would be for a husband—and
Anna is innocence itself, beware how you
approach her upon any matter of the heart,
she could not understand you, you must be
as discreet with her, and as cautious, as you
would be in handling the most delicate and
sharpest instrument known in your profes-
sion.”
	“Do you, my own mother, into whose
bosom I have poured all my childish sor-
rows and disappointments, do you doubt
my honor, or my discretion? You of all
women in the world, who have had such an
extraordinary experience with men, and
been their adviser, their arbitrator in a way,
think of Sir Edward (my great grand-
uncle,) no other woman, I have been told,
could do what you were able to—and to no
other woman did he open his heart, as he
did to you—when you were only a girl.”
	“To be sure Conway, my dear boy, I
have had great experience, mostly with
men, I know less of women, not having
been brought into close association with
many, except my cousin Anna, who was
not like other women, I’m quite sure of
that—but what can that have to do with
you, and Anna; you must wait—you must
not mention the subject of love or marriage
to her, establish yourself in your practice
and see what follows; believe me, at my
age, I know best what is right and proper.”
	Conway Bland was never so dissatisfied
before, he had come home with his mind
fully made up to ask his cousin Anna to be
his wife, and had not dreamed of any
hindrance, and especially from his mother;
she was not his own cousin, he had thought


[Column 1]
the matter all out—his mother could not
object on the plea of relationship, the one
dread he had while away was, that Edward
Hilliard should be in love with her—as he
fancied every man must be, who knew her,
but soon after coming home, he had noticed
them, and felt satisfied they were only like
cousins—while he could scarcely rest out of
her sight,and he believed she felt as he did,
for her face would light up momentarily
when he came near.
	And sure enough it was true, she scarcely
knew it, and yet she felt he was all the
world to her—she almost ceased to think of
her brother, whom she had loved with all
a sister’s pride. Mrs. Harrison had taken
great care and pains with Anna as well as
her own daughter Clarice and the two
girls were beautiful and gifted, like and un-
like, in many respects. They had been
watched and guarded almost too much,
their education had been altogether under
Mrs. Harrison’s supervision, and Sidney
Barrington had instilled such religious
principles as were calculated to help them
bear life’s ills with patience and resignation,
if they were not too many, and too terrible
In fact they were well equipped for young
ladies of that period, with prospective for-
tunes. Clarice like her father possessed
wonderful conversational qualities, Anna
was more reticent, neither of them had the
great strength of character of Jane Con-
way—but both were dazzlingly beautiful,
and seemingly unaware of the fact.
Clarice though much younger scarcely
seemed so, having developed womanly
traits earlier, and being what is termed
old-fashioned’, in her ways and manner,
it was she who first discovered Anna’s
secret.
	“Mamma,’’she said, in her childish way,
one day when Anna and Conway were out
riding, “Anna is in love with my brother
and if you don’t approve you’d better look
into it—I’ve seen it ever since he came
home, she has no thought for any one but
him, and she is growing very distant with
me, I wish you would speak to her about it,
I’m quite sure its time.”
	Mrs. Harrison looked surprised and in-
quired, “since you are so wise, my dear,
and can see so clearly into people’s affairs,
what do you propose your mamma should
say to these young people? Am I to go
and accuse them of being in love on your
authority?”
	“If you don’t speak I shall tell my
brother it is time he spoke to you about his
doings with Anna—I should not be allowed
to go here and there and everywhere with
a young man as she does, Conway himself
would soon say it was not proper, why they
sit every morning in the drawing-room,
when you are busy, and actually doing
nothing, Anna never reads now, she never
goes out unless he is with her.” And at
the moment here they came and Clarice who
was too impulsive to be discreet burst out
with, “Dr. Conway I’ve been telling
mamma about you and Anna and that she
ought to separate you two for reasons,
and—” “And for what reasons?” Inter-
rupted her brother, while Anna almost
fainting with alarm, sank down on
a chair and burst into tears. “And now
little sister as you seem to know what ought
to be, I’ll make a clean breast of it, and
tell you my mind, I am in love with Anna,
and have told her so this very morning,
and only death can divide us. Now what
are you going to say about that, we came

