IN MEMORIAM.

"The loved and lost!" Why do we call them lost
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all, and loving them the most
Straightway relieved them from life's weary load.

	The bright and beautiful month of October
when nature plumes herself most royally in scarlet,
purple, and golden, and the vines, gardens, groves
and hills are bedecked with the many colored
Autumn leaves, s ems scarcely a fitting time for
the angel of death clothed in sombre garments to

[Column 2]

make his appearance in a happy household. But
so it is, and he "has all seasons for his own." On
the 9th, of October ult. one of the saddest events
transpired at Devereux House in this City, the
sudden death, of Mrs. Emma Lettice Jennings
Carlisle, not yet the bride of a year's time. So
sudden and unexpected was the occurrence that
the young husband and the tender mother were
totally unprepared. Just about an hour or so pre-
vious to her death, Mrs. Carlisle had given birth
to a little daughter, and every hope was enter-
tained that she would rally and recuperate gradu-
ally. She had everything to live for, a loving and
devoted companion to whom she was fondly at-
tached, a babe just opening its eyes upon the new
world to be tenderly cared for with a mother's
love and maternal devotion, which Mrs. Carlisle
possessed naturally, also those attractive home
qualities that make family ties more endearing
and fasten deeper in the heart the human affec-
tions, that when rent asunder make terrible havoc
with the households so associated and linked to-
gether. Both in the home and in the sick room
her influence was a powerful one for good. She
was a natural nurse and because of her intense
love for such pursuits, had taken a regular course
in nursing that she might be prepared to do good
among her family and friends and do it systemati-
cally in the best and gentlest manner.
	Mrs. Carlisle though from her childhood accus-
tomed to every luxury wealth can bring was
never carried away with the frivolities of society,
but loved better to tread the path of duty and of
safety. She was of a religious nature full of faith
and integrity to the Gospel. She was devotedly
attached to her mother, sisters and brothers, who
will sadly miss her calm and serene presence in
the home circle, and her wise counsel in matters
of importance.
	The writer distinctly remembers her appearance
at the reception given in honor of her marriage as
also that of her sister Maye, for it had been a
double wedding, how her face lighted up with the
joy of a happy contentment, and how perfect
seemed the commencement of her married life.
But alas, for all human hopes and aspiration, she
was cut down like a flower in full bloom in the
midst of a beautiful garden, and we believe only to
be transplanted in a more congenial clime, where
those spiritual attributes of her nature apparent
here will shine forth with increased power and
splendor, and she will attain that perfection of
beauty in soul and character that surpasses all
earthly endowments. May the rich consolations
of the Holy Spirit soothe and comfort the mourn-
ing husband, mother and friends, and the rich
legacy she has left in her noble and wise example
ever be a light and a guide to them while sojourn-
ing here; and may the little one so early bereft of
a mother's care be to them a constant reminder of
the one departed and an influence and incentive to
follow on where she has gone.

"It bids us do the work that they laid down,
Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
And our lost loved ones will be found again."

	Emma Lettice Jennings was the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. William Jennings, and was born in
Salt Lake City, Aug. 2, 1866, and was married to
Hon. J. E. Carlisle in the Logan Temple, January
3, 1889, and died Oct. 9, 1889, aged—23 years 2
months and 7 days.
	Mrs. Carlisle's funeral was held at Devereux
House and was numerously attended, Bishop F.
Kesler presiding. Singing by the Quartette
Messrs. Easton, Spencer, Whitney and Goddard.

"When the swallows homeward fly."

	Prayer was offered by Apostle Heber J. Grant
Singing,

"Spin Spin" &c.

	Consoling speeches were made by Bishop O. F.


Whitney, Apostle J. H. Smith, Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon and Bishop Kesler. Singing, 
		"Not dead but sleepeth."
Benediction by Pres. Angus M. Cannon. 
A perfect deluge of flowers in every conceivable
variety of artistic shapes and forms adorned the
house and coffin. For Mrs. Carlisle there is no
need to mourn, yet all her friends will shed for her
and the sweet babe left behind, a sympathetic tear,
and may it be possible for all to say as they bow
beneath the rod, "Got knew the best."


