SALT LAKE CITY,	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿  EDITORIAL NOTICES.
	After the Woman’s Congress held in Denver
had adjourned some of the Eastern ladies paid a
visit to Salt Lake. They registered at the Cullen
where a reception was tendered them by the
ladies of the Woman’s Club of this City on Fri-
day evening Oct. 18, commencing at 8. p. m. The
parlors of the hotel were brilliantly lighted and the
rooms decorated with flowers for the occasion,
presumably by the Woman’s Club who had the
affair in charge. Mrs. Wickersham and Mrs.
Froiseith introduced those who called to the
distinguished visitors; they were the Rev.
Antoinette Brown Blackwell the first woman ever
ordained to the ministry in the United States,
Mrs. Henrietta L. T. Wolcott, Treasurer of the
A. A. W. and Miss Emily Howland an ardent
worker in reforms, also Mrs. Lawlor of the A. A.
W. A lecture was given by these ladies in the
Opera House Sunday evening, which was very
well attended though the weather was unfavor-
able.
	Mrs. Wolcott explained briefly and definitely the
origin, aim and work of the Association for the
Advancement of Women, which holds a Congress
annually in one of the large cities of the United
States.
	Miss Howland followed in a somewhat pathetic
speech upon the Temperance question, and Mrs.
Blackwell spoke for a short time on general
topics giving in brief the general advancement
made by women during the last forty years.
	On Monday the ladies called at this office and
we had an interesing time, Pres. Zina D. H.
Young being with us on the occasion, of course
the subjects were mostly of our faith, priciples
and institutions and both Mrs. Young and the
writer always take pleasure in explaining the
situation of the people before and since the en-
forcement of the Edmund’s law.
	On Tuesday evening Mrs. Blackwell spoke in
St. Mark’s schoolhouse, subject “The Nineteenth
Century.” We very much regretted not hearing
her, but had an appointment at Provo the same
evening. Mrs. Blackwell has an excellent voice
for public speaking, and a most admirable
presence, a logical way of presenting her subject,
and is very attractive in manner and appearance.

	On Tuesday October, 15, we had a pleasant call
at this office, from Theresa, Dowager Countess of
Shrewsbury, England, and the Countess of
Selkirk, Scotland. The ladies were accompanied
by their maids, who had been traveling with them
through the United States. They had some ques-
tions to ask concerning our faith and principles,
and manifested considerable interest in the con-
dition of women under the enforcement of the
Edmund’s law. They conversed freely with the
writer, giving their own views and opinions upon
[Column 2]
popular questions which are being agitated in
Great Britain at the present time, and were
decidedly in favor of suffrage for women property
holders, and especially those who had no man,
husband, father or brother to represent their in-
terests. We emphatically maintained it is better
to represent one’s self than to be dependent upon
another even if it be a man, to which sentiments
the Ladies assented. We accompanied them to
the Temple Block and went over the grounds and
public buildings, explaining and answering their
questions and giving them such information as the
time would permit.
	These ladies cultivated, refined and accom-
plished, accustomed to the society of the highest
aristocracy, were very much like other people in
sentiment and expression.
	They had read W. Hepworth Dixon’s books
“New America” and another work treating some-
what definitely upon Mormon subjects; they had
also read Lawrence Oliphant’s views of the
Latter-day Saints in Utah.
	The Dowager Countess seemed very proud of
her ten grandchilren and wished she could show
them to us. Both ladies are quite young looking
and well-preserved, and both are widows, and if
we might venture an opinion on the subject, some-
what strong-minded in view of the fact that they
are “doing America,” without a gentleman escort.
	In a letter received yesterday from the Countess
Selkirk she refers kindly to the EXPONENT and
asks for other copies; the Ladies were at that date
on the banks of the beautiful Hudson; they in-
formed me they intended visiting Washington D.
C. before they sailed for England.


