ON MARRIAGE.

	My eye caught a sentence reading thus:
"Marriages are made in heaven."
	Now I will quote scripture, St. Luke Ch. 22-
34, 35, Vs.
	The question was asked by the Sadducees of
Christ, "whose wife of seven husbands would
the woman be, in the resurrection. And Jesus
answering said: "The children of this world
marry and are given in marriage, but they who
shall be counted worthy to obtain that world,
and the resurrection from the dead neither
marry nor are given in marriage."
	Eph. Ch. 5-28, 29, vs. "So ought men to
love their wives as their own bodies. He that
loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man
ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth
and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the Church.
	1 Corinthians Ch. 11-11, vs. "Nevertheless
neither is the man without the woman, neither
the woman without the man in the Lord," Ch.
8-39, vs. "The wife is bound by the law as long
as her husband liveth, but if her husband be

[Column 2]

dead, she is at liberty to be married to whom
she will, only in the Lord." By these passages
of scripture we can draw definate conclusions.
That God has a law instituted in His church
that makes the marriage ceremony binding in
this life and the world to come. For when-
ever God has had a church upon the earth He
has given His servants the power and authority
to marry, that is to bind on earth and in
heaven God does not put this seal and
sanction to any other law that man may make,
man's law only binds together until death
doth us part." Adam, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
Solomon, David, Sarah, Hannah, Ruth, Eliza-
beth and all those ancient saints of God entered
into the everlasting covenant of marriage and
God blessed them, and their increase was with-
out end. How necessary then that the young
brethren and sisters who enter into this cove-
nent of marriage should be true and faithful
to each other, never speak against or deny the
order that God has instituted, or make light
of the higher law that will lead them into the
Celestial Kingdom of our Heavenly Father.
We read, "That straight is the gate and narrow
is the way that leads to life eternal and few
there be that find it. But dear Latter-day
Saints we should not be ignorant in regard to
these doctrines and principles made so plain to
our understanding if we will but give heed to
them. Marriage is honorable to all that enter
into it aright and have in view its sacredness.
"Verily, verily I say unto you, except ye
abide my law, ye cannot attain to this glory."
		MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 17, 1889.

