HEPHZIBAH.
X.

What wonders, and what changes time hath wrought
	E'en down among the old New England hills
New light and revelation hath been taught,
	That ev'ry fibre of one's being thrills

	And sure enough the Mormon Elders
preached in the little Puritanical village⁠—in
the schoolhouse, and a large number of people
gathered to hear what new thing they had to
tell;—and forsooth they found only the same
old story of salvation through the Messiah
who would yet come in power and great glory
to possess the kingdom; but the strangest part 
of all was that no one seemed to have com-
prehended the Bible until these Mormon Elders
gave them a key by means of which they
could unlock the sayings of the Savior and
his Apostles, and the Bible seemed to them a
new book. Even on the first evening many
were impressed with the truths uttered by
these unlearned men, and several applied
for baptism at the close of the first meeting.
So plain had been the explanations given in
regard to the remission of sins through Bap-
tism and the laying on of hands for the gift
of the Holy Ghost, that those who received
the glad tidings with willing hearts rejoiced
and were exceedingly glad and desired that
others, who had not heard should have the
opportunity of hearing the same inspired
teachings.
	On the following day the news spread
through the village and the town like wild-
fire that two strangers preaching new doctrines
had made such a sensation and created so much
enthusiasm among the staid and quiet people,
that several of the members of the Congrega-


[Column 1]
﻿tional Church, and some who had never made
a profession of any religion, were to be bap-
tized in a pond just a little way south of the
village.
	The minister on whom the Elders had called
the day before was so excited over the news
when he heard it, that he went from house to
house among his parishioners to ascertain par
ticulars, and if possible to protect them from
the snares of the adversary of souls, and in-
duce them to use their utmost endeavors "to
persuade the deluded ones to give up such
foolish notions as having their sins remitted
by going down into the water, for it was only
a species of Catholicism this promise to remit
sins." But it was all in vain the seed had
been scattered and it found root and grew
and flourished and eventually bore good fruit.
	There had never been at any time in the
history of the oldest inhabitant of that little vil-
lage such an exciting time. The baptisms were
performed as the people who had been con-
verted requested, though the weather was cold
in that section of country even in November,
but none of those who had asked to be baptized
seemed in the least to fear the cold water, it
was a glorious sight to gaze upon these bap-
tisms in this quiet country place and the con-
firmation afterwards at a house near by where
they went to change their clothing. The new
converts hovered around the Elders playing
them with questions almost innumerable, so
earnest were they in their desires to gain
further information.
	Finally after remaining about three days
preaching every evening and answering
questions throughout the day, the Elders
traveled onward, leaving those whom they had
baptized in charge of a brother a resident
there, whom they appointed to preside for a
few days until they should return, and resume
the work so successfully begun. Among the
very first who beleived the truths taught by
the Elders was Mrs. Hathaway who had been
looking forward to just such an event as had
transpired, the coming of a prophet and the
restoration of all things. The minister brought
to bear all his learning, wisdom and influence
to show up the errors and misinterpretations
of Scripture as he called their preaching and
logic. But those who had heard knew it was
not sophistry or delusion, and that there was
no such misinterpretation of Scriptural truths
as he represented, for they were told by the
Elders to take the literal meaning of the
Word of God.
	The conflict between the Church people and
those who had accepted the idea of new revela-
tion was a bitter one, and the consequence
was a gradual division that at last became
permanent. One cannot help feeling that the
commandment given to the Saints to gather
unto one place is necessary, when it is con-
sidered how indignant and revengeful the
people become towards those who accept the
principles of "Mormonism." so called, but in
reality the true Gospel.
	Meantime though persecution raged one
might say yet the Saints met together and
the gifts of the Gospel were poured out in a
wonderful manner, not only in the gift of
tongues and the interpretation thereof but in
the healing of the sick and afflicted, so much
so that Doctors became alarmed as well as
ministers.
	In a neighborhood about five miles from
the village on a farm, the mistress of the
house, the mother of a large family had lain
ill for many years. Eminent physicians had
pronounced her ailments incurable, and her
family had given up all hopes of her ever
coming down stairs again.
	The husband of the sick woman heard the
Mormon Elders preach, and repeat the saying
of the Savior to his desciples, Go ye into all
the world and preach the Gospel &c.—and he
[Column 2]
that believeth and is baptized shall be saved
	*	*	&c.—and these signs shall
follow them that believe, in my name
they shall cast out devils, shall speak with
new tongues, and if they lay hands on the
sick they shall recover, and so forth. Mr.
W—— pondered over these words and he
beleived them; and the Elders also said many
had been healed under the administration of
the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the present day, as well as
in former times. Faith seemed at once to be
implanted in the heart of Mr. W.— he sought
an interview with the Elders, he invited them
to his house, he listened to their teachings,
and soon became converted to the doctrines
they taught. He told them of the condition
of his wife, and asked them if there was a
possibility of her being healed by faith. The
Elders answered, "if she is not appointed unto
death, and if she will believe sufficiently to
allow us to administer to her in the ordinance
of the laying on of hands she will be raised
up and you will have her in your midst again
fully restored." Mr. W.— listened in astonish-
ment, yet he believed, and accordingly he took
the Elders with him up into the chamber of
the sick woman and introduced them to his
afflicted wife saying, "these are the Elders of
whom I told you, who preach repentance and
baptism by immersion and the laying on of
hands, not only for confirmation and the gift
of the Holy Ghost but also for the healing of
the sick and afflicted even as in the days of
the Savior." "Are you willing to listen to
them and if you can comprehend as I do the
truth of these things, we will ask for baptism
at their hands?"
	The Elders remained a short time conversing
with the sick woman, and she received their
teaching with the humility of a little child,
and her faith was such that she desired bap-
tism but how could she obtain it she asked,
"I am not able to sit up or to be dressed and
how can I be baptized?" said she and the tears
flowed down her palid cheeks.
	One of the Elders replied, "Mrs. W.— if you
have faith in our administration we will lay
hands upon your head, and ask our Heavenly
Father to heal you and you shall be restored
to health, and go down into the waters of bap-
tism, return again to your home, and go about
your daily work as you did before this illness
came upon you."
	"I will exercise faith, for I believe you are
men of God I see it in your countenances, and
I feel a power such as I have never ex-
perienced before." O if my boys were only
here to see you and to hear you as I do, what
would they say?"
	Her husband interposed saying the boys
should be written to immediately, and that she
must not trouble about them,  they would
come home and hear for themselves.
	Finally the Elders administered to her and
she was healed, and the following day with
her husband and two or three of the younger
children she walked a little distance from the
house, to where there was a running stream of
water, and they were all baptized and con-
firmed into the Church, and the words spoken
to her by the Elders were literally fulfilled.
	This manifestation of the power of healing
caused a great commotion; many of the
people round about were well acquainted with
Mrs. W.'s— condition, and could not account
for the miracle that had been wrought, for
they knew some power had been exercised in
her behalf. Her two eldest sons who were
away in College were sent for to come home,
that they might know for themselves of this
wonderful change. One of them, the eldest
was preparing for the ministry, the other to
graduate in medicine. They came home, they
heard the teaching of the Elders, and the
testimony of their mother upon the healing
[Column 3]
power manifest through the holy priesthood,
and they soon became convinced it was some-
thing which far exceeded the learning of the
world. They gave up their worldly professions,
they became converted to the Gospel which
their parents had embraced, and they too were
baptized, and afterwards ordained, and pro-
claimed the glad tidings and truths taught
them to all who would hear. But the young
men with whom they had studied would not
accept the message they brought, and ridiculed
them for believing what they knew and testi-
fied to be the truth. It was hard for them, but
they found immediately after their baptism,
that they could not finish the studies they had
intended at the College; prejudice was too
bitter, and all sorts of rumors concerning the
"Mormons," were retailed at large. But these
young men had counted the cost, and had
decided to serve God, and preach the Ever-
lasting Gospel, revealed again through Joseph
Smith, instead of accepting earthly honors and
false creeds. And here for a little time we
will leave them, rejoicing in their new-found
faith, enjoying the gifts and blessings per-
taining thereto.


