NOTES AND NEWS.
	Athens, Greece, has a Woman's journal.

	Mrs. Amelia Rives Chandler is writing a 
book about the children employed in mills.
	
	The net receips of the historical pageant at
Hartford, Ct., in honor of Mrs. Stowe,
amounted to $1,036.

	There are twenty-four Kindergartens, with
forty-six teachers, and attended by fifteen
hundred children in Boston, Mass. 

	Of the twenty-one young women now at the 
Brussels University, 10 study pharmacy, 7
physical science, 3 general medicine, and one
philosophy.
	
	The young ladies of the Wisconsin Uni-
versity are studying carpentry, and gaining 
proficiency in the mechanical department as

[Column 2]
rapidly as in the more intellectual studies in
which they are engaged.

	Mrs. Emily Crawford is writing “A Story of 
the French Revolution." As her husband's 
assistant during his lifetime, and his successor
since his death, Mrs. Crawford has been the
Paris correspondent of the London Daily News
for a quarter of a century.

	The October Century contains a very in-
teresting posthumous article by Maria Mitchell,
entitled "Reminiscences of the Herschels," with
a portrait of Miss Mitchell, and a picture of
her last observatory, at Lynn, Mass.
	
	Miss Ruth Wells of Ft. Wayne, Ind., who
died there Oct. 2, aged eighty, left her resi-
dence, worth $40,000, to the city, on condition
that the asylum for the blind shall be erected 
and maintained. Her mother was blind for
years.
	
	Mrs. Nora Buck, wife of the the engineer of
a passenger steamer which plies on Great Egg
Harbor Bay between Long Port and Somers
Point, N. J., presides over the engine-room
and is skilled in the management of the
machinery. Mrs. Buck is a granddaughter of
Commodore Lavalette and the daughter of the
founder of Lavelette City, N. J. She is as
 skillful in managing a sailboat as in running a 
steamer. She is only 19 years old and ex-
tremely handsome. Her husband says she is
the best assistant he could have in running his 
boat.

	Miss Caroline Whiting, seventy-one years
of age, has been a teacher in New York City
for fifty-three years. Says Miss Frances
Willard in the Union Signal: For fifty years
she has not spent a day in bed: has taught al-
ways in the same school (No 14), and worn out
two school buildings; has been forty years
principal and has twenty teachers under her
care, and has had not fewer than twelve
thousand pupils. Miss Whiting has had her
home for fifty years with Mrs Sabin and the
latter’s mother, both of whom were her pupils.
This is a pretty fair record for one "superfluous
woman."
	
	A very old lady has just died in London—
the Dowager Duchess of Beaufort— who,
years ago, was the unwitting cause of a piece
of far-reaching legislation. She  was the
second wife of the old Duke, whose childless first
wife had been her sister. When her husband
died, the question was raised whether her son
could succeed to the title, inasmuch as the
ancient ecclesiastical law then prevailing, while
not making such marriages void, provided for 
their being set aside by spiritual courts upon
appeal. After some trouble, the other heirs
acceded to the succession of the present
Duke, but, in order that such a dispute should
not arise again, an act was immediately passed
making marriage with a deceased wife's sister
illegal.


