			U. W. S. A.

	A Convention of the U. W. S. A. was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this City Mon-
day Oct. 7, commencing at 2 p. m. Mrs. L. D-
Alder, Acting Pres., in the Chair. Mrs. Nellie R.
Webber, Vice Pres., and Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall,
Ch. Ex. Com., were by her side, also Mrs. Ann
Groesbeck and Phebe Y. Beattie of the Com-
mittee and Miss Rachel Edmunds Ass’t Sec.
Hon. John T. Caine, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Hon. W.
H. King and Prof. Talmage occupied seats on the
stand—also Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. L. G. Richards,
and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh, Pres. Millard Co
W. S. A. Mrs. Ellen Jakeman Pres. Sanpete Co.
W.S. A. and others. The Convention opened
with prayer by Dr. E. S. Barney. After reading
minutes etc., Prof. Talmage was the first
speaker, he alluded to the benefits derived from
thought being aroused and discussion begun upon
any subject; he thought the fact that woman is
still deprived of the franchise is a proof that bar-
barism still exists; he was not an enthusiast on
the subject; but believed that suffrage would be
given not as a mercy, but he thought reason and
revelation united to convince us that woman
is as much queen as man is king; thought it a
characteristic of manly nature that man arrogate
to himself honors and privileges; he did not think
man had a right to delay or intercept the privi-
leges that women are asking for. “Kamschatkans
beat their wives into obedience, the Zulu’s are
little better, the Roman’s in the time of the glory
of the Roman Empire were not much better, but
we in this day regard such scenes as evidences of
darkened minds; in this age may God assist to re-
move error, and grant His divine favor upon the
efforts being made to elevate woman.”
	Hon. C. W. Penrose believed in the rights of
women and children as well as the rights of men,
one is not in opposition to the other: a senator
had said to him “you might as well talk to me
of a howling beast, or whirling cyclone as to talk
to me of woman suffrage, and the man who helps
to confer suffrage upon woman commits a crime
next to murder,” some argue that women can’t
vote because they can’t go to  war and fight. I
[Column 2]
think the delay in granting women the right to vote
is due in a great measure to women themselves,
there are so many women who do not want the
responsibility and do not comprehend the ad-
vantage it might be to others who are asking for it.
One mistake often made is in confusing the terms
of suffrage and citizenship, and again one may be
entitled to vote and not be eligible to office, keep
these three things distinct and seek to become
conversant with these subjects and with the laws
of municipalities and counties, states, etc., injustice
prevails now, but it will not be long until women
will be enfranchised and righteousness will pre-
vail from shore to shore and from pole to pole.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young—said she was reminded of
an old saying that she heard when a little girl,
			"He who plants pears
			Plants for	his heirs."
Mothers and sisters are planting now for the
future; sewing good seed, evil is abroad in the
world, the traffic in liquor is one of the  great
causes of crime, would not mothers vote against
this crying evil? Yes! spoke of the immense amount
of money made for the government by the internal
revenue act upon liquor, and the degradation of
mothers and wives because of intemperance.
Made an eloquent plea for mothers having the right
to their own children.
	Hon. John T. Caine believed in the rights of
women; the taking of the franchise from the wo_
men of Utah was simply a political movement to
lessen the vote of the people’s party; agitation on
this question would in time accomplish the desired
result, agitation that begun in Mass., brought
about the Anti-Slavery movement; at present it
was impossible to do much towards suppressing
saloons except to make the license as high as pos-
sible, these liquor people don’t want women to
vote, it would keep the ballot box too pure, but
let us plant the trees and those who come after
us will eat the pears.
	Hon. Wm. H. King said he had read or heard
that the warrior who had vanquished a hundred
foes, trembled when before a woman—and he felt
the truth of this saying today in standing to ad-
dress the audience upon this subject. There had
never been any question in his mind as to the
civil and political rights of women, if mothers can
instil patriotism into the hearts of their children,
can rear statesmen, why should they not be en-
trusted with privileges equal to the sons they rear.
Women in all ages have been at the bottom of re-
forms, the United States, Europe, and England
especially has been highly favored with women of
renown. The speaker once had the privilege of
hearing Lord Randolph Churchill speak in the
house of Parliament when woman suffrage was
being discussed and he put it in this way “Why
don’t women wear trousers?” It is no reason a
all, it does not follow any more than a hundred
other differences. Enfranchisement for women is
sure to follow in the steps of enlightenment.
	An organ solo by Jos. J. Daynes was highly ap-
preciated.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards was the next speaker, she
looked with a degree of pride on the record made
by the women of Utah in the past when they en-
oyed the right of franchise, thought the experi-
ences of the present should stimulate us to inform
ourselves more fully that, we might vote intelli-
gently when the time should come which it cer-
tainly would before long.
	A beautiful song was charmingly rendered by
Miss Viola Pratt.
	Bishop Wallace of North Ogden made a power-
ful speech in favor of the rights of women in all
lands, thought it a strange and anomalous
position for women to be in,sueing to mankind for
the right of franchise when every one of these
great statesmen and kings, the greatest and the
highest, had as a child knelt at the feet of a wo-
man and were taught by her their first lessons.
[Column 3]
	Many good things were said and solid truths ad-
vanced and the Convention was altogether calcu-
lated to arouse thought; to publish the minutes in
full would be impossible in a paper, it would re-
quire to be in pamphlet form.
	After the speeches, Mrs. Alder called upon the
delegates and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh gave a
concise report of the Millard Co., organiza-
tion, its past and present status, and the hopes she
entertained for the future development of the mem-
bers of the Association. Mrs. Greenhalgh also
related how forty years ago in Calcutta she had
spoken on this very question, and expressed he
indignation at the treatment American women re-
ceived in England at the time of the World’s Anti-
Slavery Convention.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman with her babe in her arms
made a clear and brief statement of facts concern-
ing what had been done in the Association in
Sanpete Co., which was most interesting.
	Mrs. Alder briefly reviewed the work accom-
plished by the W. S. A. at headquarters, after
which the Convention adjourned subject to call by
the Secretary. Letters were received from other
Counties beside those represented on the plat-
form.


