	TOWN AS YET UNMODERNIZED.

	When the Puritans made their settlement at
Salem, the tribe of Agawam owned the land
bordering on the Atlantic coast between the
Naumkeag and the Merrimac rivers, and inland
as far as Andover. Masconomet, their chief, con-
veyed the present towns of Ipswich and Topsfield
to John Winthrop, son of Governor Winthrop,for
£20. Thus sacrificing his beautiful hunting-
grounds, which abounded in game, he became in
his later days dependent upon the colonists. He
was buried on Sagamore Hill in the present town
of Hamilton. The first occupancy of Topsfield
by European settlers dates back to 1635, but its
incorporation as a town came some years later
The beautiful broad meadows that border the
Agawam (now called Ipswich) river first attracted
the early settlers of Ipswich and Salem, and grants'
of land were given to John Endicott, Simon Brad-
street, Robert Paine and others, who formed a
settlement here, to which they gave the name of
New Meadows. The present name of Topsfield,
which might have been suggested by its hill, was
no doubt derived from Toppesfield, England, from
which place many immigrants came at an early
day and made their home here. Prominent among
these was a man named Smith, and there are now
extant in the old stone church at Toppesfield
England, some interesting memorials of his
family; among them one is particularly noticeable,
commemorating the virtues and Christian graces
of his mother. From this mother in Israel
through her line of descendants in this village
came Joseph Smith, the founder of the Mormon
sect, and in the village cemetery here is a monu-
ment to the Smith family, erected through the in-
strumentality of George A. Smith, a Mormon
elder, lately-deceased. The old town of Toppes-
field, England, is said to retain the manners and
customs of primitive times, and is far behind its
namesake in America in population and genera
intelligence.
	The old Bradstreet farm, probably the first one
laid out in the early township of New Meadows,
covers one of the eastern hills, its cultivated fields
sloping to the broad meadow at its base. This
farm was given by Govenor Bradstreet to his son
Simon, whose descendants, bearing the name of
Bradstreet, occupy an old fashioned homestead
built close to the original house, which was only
taken down a few years ago. While Ann Dudley
the poet wife of Govenor Simon Bradstreet, has


transmitted her genius to some of her descendants
(among whom are Oliver Wendell Holmes and
Richard H. Dana), the benevolent features and
amiable characteristics of her husband, the old
colonial governor, can be easily traced in some of
his descendants in this village. Anne Bradstreet
was a daughter of that rigid old Puritan, Governor
Thomas Dudley, and every generation since her
time in Topsfield has had a Dudley Bradstreet
among its number, even to the present occupant
of the farm we have mentioned. Very few
villages of New England have retained their old-
time simplicity as this one has done. None of
the hurry and bustle of its more enterprising
neighbors have come over these hills. One manu-
facturer only has gained a foothold, and even he
hesitates to destroy the quiet of the village by im-
porting foreign laborers, and only employs the
sons and daughters of his neighbors and friends,
No Queen Anne turretted villa dots hill or plain,
and no summer hotel invites the stranger to this
quiet retreat.
	A strong feature of Topsfield is the accessi-
bility of all things that make country life desirable
to a lover of nature. No long dusty roads or toil-
some climbing are necessary to put before one
the wildest views, the prettiest dells and the
greenest meadows bordered by grand old oak and
hickory trees. Foot-paths and well-worn
stiles, of which Burroughs laments there are so
few in this country, take you within the shade of
the pines up the hillside to an elevation where
can be seen Newburyport, the hills of Ipswich,the
waters of Pigeon Cove, the high bluffs of Beverly
Shore, and when the atmosphere is clear, Marble-
head and the harbor of Salem town. From this
hill we look down upon the village, with its two
church spires, shady streets, comfortable, farm-
like houses, and upon the Agawam, spanned by
bridges and shaded by overhanging trees and
shrubs. This romantic stream that bows and
bends all the way to the ocean, is like a little
brook during the summer months, but overflows
its banks in the spring and autumn, turning the
outlying meadows into a broad, smooth lake. In
the west are the Andover hills, and beyond
stretch other ranges, with Monadnoc and
Wachusett dimly outlined on the horizon, In the
centre of the village is a wide common, intersected
by paths shaded by elms and bordered by two
churches, the town hall and two old colonial
houses, built by the Emersons in the best style of
architecture of a hundred years ago, giving a
grand and gracious air to this inland town. An
ancient house still stands near the common, built
with an overhanging upper story for protection
from the Indians. There is no record of its age,
but it is supposed to have stood at least two hun-
dred and twenty years, and has few companions
left anywhere in New England. It was the home
of Rev. Joseph Capen, the first minister of Tops-
field, who came here from Dorchester in the
middle of the seventeenth century. Rev. John
Emerson succeeded Mr. Capen, and in his long
ministry of forty-six years, though often deprived
of his meagre salary, managed to amass fifty
thousand dollars, a large fortune for those days.
He was a brother of Rev. Joseph Emerson, from
whom came the Concord branch. The Rev.
Joseph was spiritually minded, never counting the
things of this world, and he ceased to hold
friendly and brotherly communion with John, who
he thought was too much engrossed in worldly
affairs. The colonial houses were built by de-
scendants of Parson John, and two years ago,
when one became the property of the Congrega-
tional church, to be used as a parsonage, lilac
trees over eighty years old, that had been the
pride and delight of a former generation, were cut
to the ground,they in some measure destroying the
ideality of this village. We are reminded of the
poet Longfellow, who never wished to leave his
home in Cambridge when the lilacs were in bloom.
[Column 2]
	This village, like Salem and Danvers, suffered
from the witchcraft delusion. Two women—Mary
Eastey and Sarah Wildes—were dragged from 
their homes and hung on Witch’s hill, while
another—Abigail Hobbs—was condemned to die,
but was finally pardoned. Mary Eastey and the
well-known Rebecca Nourse were sisters,daughters
of William Town of Topsfield, who settled here
as early as 1635. All these women had led ex-
emplary lives, were strong in the Christian faith,
with a native sweetness of disposition that
endeared them to their families and friends. They
became shining marks for this most cruel persecu-
tion, but their memory is still treasured, and their
eloquent appeals for justice and mercy have not
failed to find a place in the hearts of the genera-
tions that have followed them.
	The study of geology and botany is becoming
very popular throughout Essex county. Many of
the smaller towns and villages have organized
clubs through the influence of the famous Essex
Institute which has its head-quarters at Salem.
Some of the towns have exhibited fine collections
of wild flowers at the annual fairs of this county,
and Topsfield ought to send of its abundance, for
he flora of the village and its vicinity is rich. The
meadows, from early spring until midsummer, pre-
sent a succession of vivid colors from the multi-
tude and variety of wild flowers. Before the road-
side grass is green, and while the buds are yet
swelling on the trees, the cowslips or meadow but-
tercups, or marshmallows, as they are frequently
called, stretch up their vigorous yellow bloom out
of the watery hillocks, that ooze and sputter at the
lightest weight. The painted cups then follow,
whose petals shade from green to the brightest
red, forming a score or more of clustering cups,
that draw the water through their hollow stems
and drop it from the brim. Bryant sings in praise
of this flower, which is rarely found in New Eng-
land—
	“Scarlet tufts are glowing in the green, like lakes
		of fire!”
	The wanderers of the prairie know them well,
and call that flower “the painted cup.” Then
come the dark red trilium and the white buck
bean, the thickly strewn purplish red blossoms of
the pitchers, the “Jacks,” with their lords and
ladies, and the white azalea, rich in fragrance.
The last of the spring production is the arethusa,
with its variegated lip and bright pink petals, the
most fascinating, delicate and delusive of all the
water plants, for it hides itself in the most inac-
cessible places. The highways and fields are
covered with bloodroot, anemones, violets, brown
and blue, the dogtooth violet, nodding daintily on
its stem, blue hepatica, red columbine, the stately
slipper and the cardinal flower. In October, the
blue fringed gentians cover the meadows, and the
pure white gentian is often found by their side.
The woods contain fine specimens of ferns that
have attracted the attention of botanists. The deli-
cate brown fern,so often in demand for herbariums
is a native of these woods.
	The birds in Topsfield are of brilliant plumage,
and many varieties that have not visited their old
home for years, Having been driven away, it is
said, by those troublesome English sparrows, are
now returning in great numbers. Among them
the scarlet tanager and the gayly colored grosbeck
occasionally flash before us as we  pass through
the wood, while yellow birds, the little brown
thrush, bluebirds in variety, and hosts of golden
orioles, swinging in their nests, are seen daily be-
fore our doors. To appreciate the most beautiful
sounds of the country one should take an early
flight from the city. Come with the cowslips and
robins. In no other way can the infinite variety of
pleasures and surprises afforded by the lavishness
of nature be fully realized.
	Practically, life in Topsfield is one of general
prosperity.  "The poor ye have always with you”
scarcely applies to this village, for even the poor
[Column 3]
farm has less than six occupants. This farm is
pleasantly situated, and is one of the most produc-
tive in the town. They have an annex for the
“walking gentry,” commonly called tramps, who
lodge and are fed at the town’s expense. Coffee
was formerly furnished them with their bread, but
at one time so many availed themselves of this
generous provision that water was substituted.
The question of building a separate establishment
for these vagrants, at some place remote from the
village, is now under consideration. This will be
an additional grievance to them, as some have
already complained of the present short trip “over
the hills to the poorhouse.” The old academy,
which has been a landmark for many generations,
is quaint and interesting, situated on an eminence
in the heart of the village.
	The inhabitants of Topsfield follow in the foot-
steps of their ancestors, whose traditions and occu-
pations cling tenaciously to the soil. The natural
surroundings of the village seem to be a defence
against intrusion; and we should bless the ever-
lasting hills that preserve to us a peaceful old-
time village, the fulfillment of the Puritan’s dream.
—“V. R.,” in Boston Transcript.


