		ZINA E. CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Sept. 8th, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿FAITH WHAT IS IT?
	We are told it is a gift of God. You may
then ask as a friend once said to me: Am I to
blame if faith has not been given to me? Let
us reflect. We read in holy writ that the just
shall live by faith. Romans 1st chap. 17 v.
Will our Father withhold any thing from us
which we justly merit. Are we just and true
to ourselves and our fellows: Being made in
the image of God should not we possess the
[Column 2]
same attributes or virtues? We can love and
also hate that which annoys and vexes us, if
we choose: not governing that passion; which
charity sometimes prompts us to do in this
fallen world; for human nature is frail at best:
Accordingly when light and truth take posses-
sion of our minds we find that these virtues
are really ours but lie dormant until called
into action by gospel truths, then our attention
is attracted by things of such great importance
that trifles that annoy and vexed us at other
times are hardly noticeable now, we look at
them as only passing events which will soon
disappear, for in reality these have but little
weight and will soon be blown away as chaff.
	In my opinion those who have cultivated
the gift of faith in God our Father can tell
us best what the benefits are of the same. The
Apostle Paul is certainly one of those persons.
He says: Now faith is the substance of things
hoped for, the evidence of things not seen;
The Prophet Joseph said, the appearance of
things hoped for, etc. We can here form a
correct idea of what faith is.
	The Book of Mormon illustrates it still
more clearly to my mind. On page 300 we
read the words of the Prophet Alma thus.
Now as I said concerning faith, that it was
not a perfect knowledge, even so with my
words. Ye can not know of this surety at
first, unto perfection, any more than faith is a
perfect knowledge. But behold if ye will
awake and arouse your faculties even to an
experiment upon my words, and exercise a
particle of faith, even to desire to believe, let
this desire work in you even until you believe
in a manner that ye can give place for a
portion of my words.
	He then compares the word unto a seed
that may be planted in your heart, “behold if
it be a true seed, or a good seed, and if ye do not
cast it out by your unbelief, that ye resist the
Spirit of the Lord, behold it will begin to swell
within your breasts; and when you feel these
swelling motions, ye will begin to say, it must
needs be that this is a good seed, or the word
is good, for it beggineth to enlarge my soul,
and to enlighten my understanding, yea it is
delicious to me.”
	The Prophet Alma goes on to say, after
proper nourishment a sprout will shoot out,
then another, until it becomes a tree. But if
neglected it may then die. Accordingly you
must nourish the tree until you obtain the
fruit. Then you have obtained a knowledge
through your diligence and faithfulness which
is equal to the fruit of the tree of life. It is
no longer faith it is knowledge.
	But if ye neglect the tree and take no
thought for its nourishment, behold it will not
get any root, and when the heat of the sun
cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath no
root, it withers away; and ye pluck it up and
cast it out. Now this is not because the seed
was not good, neither was it because the fruit
of it was not desirable; but it was because your
ground was barren, and ye will not nourish
the tree, therefore ye cannot have the fruit
thereof, and thus if ye will not nourish the
word looking forward with an eye of faith to
the fruit thereof, ye can never pluck of the
fruit of the tree of life.
	This reminds me of our Savior’s prayer for
His disciples. His prayer to His Father was:
“Sanctify them through thy truth thy word is
truth.
	Emanuel Sweedenborg who was born in
Sweden also says. You cannot build anything
on earth which will reach heaven. He says
that the scriptures and words of inspired men
are a ladder let down from heaven for our bene-
fit, and the only way to ascend to God, our
Father.
	We also remember the rich man who asked
father Abraham to send some one to his
brethren, lest they come to this place of tor-
[Column 3]
ment. The answer was “they have Moses
and the prophets, if they will not hear them
neither will they listen though one arose from
the dead.
	Can we find a more important lesson? Or
one more worthy of our diligent and faith-
ful study. In my opinion we should be as
earnest as those who study science, believing
the result will be that which arrives to per-
fection. Then great will be our joy and re-
joicing, both in this world and also in the
next.
					M. E. KIMBALL.
Oct. 22nd 1889.


A. A. W.

	The Association for the Advancement for
Women held their Seventeenth Congress
in Unity Church, Broadway, Denver, Colorado,
October 8th, 9th and 10th. Executive session
at 10 o'clock a. m. Public sessions at 2.30
and 8 o'clock p.m. At evening sessions an
admittance fee of twenty five cents was
charged. A Conference of officers only was
held October 7th. Topics of discussion:
Civil Marriage, Mrs. E. D. Cheney; Women in
Affairs, Mrs. Helen S. Shedd; Women in
Science, Miss Laura Linton; Education vs.
Examinations, Miss Mary A. Ripley; What
Authors are Influencing most the Minds of
the Young in America, Mrs. Annie Nathan
Meyer; Hegel's Views of Art, Mrs. Ellen M.
Mitchell; Crime and its Punishment, Mrs. R.
N. Hazard; What we owe to Greek. Civiliza-
tion Mrs. Alice Harris; Statistical Paper, Rev.
A. B. Blackwell; Redemptive Power of Art,
Mrs. Rebecca D. Rickoff; Common Sense in
the Nursery, Dr. Julia Holmes Smith;
Symposium: Employment of Prisoners.


