RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The evening session of the Relief Society
was not so well attended as the morning had
been though there were more brethren present.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presided, and the
meeting opened with the hymn.
		"O' my Father thou that dwellest," etc.
	Prayer by Mrs. Lucy B. Young.  singing
		"We thank thee O God for a prophet."
	President Young called for those Presidents
of Stakes who had not reported in the morn-
ing commencing with Mrs. Lizzie McDonald
who had formerly presided over the Relief
Society of Maricopa Stake, and was also
familiar with the organized Society in Mexico.
The speaker gave an excellent report of the
labors of the sisters in Maricopa Stake and
spoke especially of the Papago ward; gave an
interesting account of the way in which the
Indian women were being trained in house
keeping and other pursuits as also dress etc.
	Sister harmon teaches them music and to sing
by note and Sister McDonald felt it inspiring
to hear them sing.  Sister McDonald spent last
winter in Mexico enjoyed it very much said
some of the best people had gone there, and
had their boys around them, they have suffered
many privations in times past, and she sympa-
thized with them in many respects. Her de-
sire was to do good everywhere that her lot
might be cast, no matter where it might be.
She had never felt better in her life than now.
	Dr Pratt then read the totals of the general
report of the Relief Society which stated there
were now enrolled 16,747 members! and seven
stakes not reported, viz.  Davis, Emery, Morgan,
Panguitch, Parowan, San Luis and Wasatch,
	Pres.  Willmirth East gave a good report of
St. Joseph Stake and said Pres. C. Layton al-
ways attended the Sisters Conferences, they
were a good people down there and trying to
live their religion serve God and keep his com-
mandments.  Spoke in glowing terms of her
love of liberty and of the Constitution of
our glorious country, rejoiced in the freedom
its principles guaranteed, her sentiments were
in full accord with the emphatic declaration
of Patrick Henry when he exclaimed, "Give
me liberty or give me death."  Sister East
apologized for Pres.  Emma Brown's absence
from the Conference said she had been travel-
ing with her recently through Wasatch Stake,
and had enjoyed it very much, the Society
throughout the Stake was in a prosperous con-
dition.
	Counselor Sasah P. Crosby of Panguitch Stake,


spoke of the disadvantages they labored under
in the matter of distances, their Stake reached
65 miles East 55 to the North East and 50
North so that it was difficult to reach the
settlements often, there were eleven branches of
the Relief Society scattered over the county
some of them are very small. In these
branches some of the families are so far apart
they can only hold their meetings a part of
the year.
	Pres. M. Isabella Horne, of Salt Lake Stake,
regretted there were not more present, thought
that the instructions that had been given dur-
ing the late Conference should stimulate us
to go on in the cause of the Lord; she had
been visiting around the county and also in
the city wards trying to encourage to good
works. “Our Father in heaven will not
withhold any good thing from his children
who are doing good service in his kingdom.”
Advised the holding of annual meetings
thought it helped to keep up the interest, and
felt anxious to see an advancement in the
growth and progress of these organizations.
	Pres. Elizabeth Yates of Millard Stake.
Our settlements are very scattered, we try to
meet with them all once a year, sometimes
feel very weak and unable to perform the
duties of the position I am called to fill. Pres.
Hinckley meets with us sometimes and asks
special questions etc. We teach our children
the Word of Wisdom and try to train them in
the path of duty. We are not often visited.
Sister Horne made us a visit some years ago
and the sisters refer to it often; the brethren
sustain us in our organization and are glad to
attend our meetings; rejoiced in the good re-
sults of the Primary Association.
	Sister Kathinka Anderson reported Emery
Stake as in good working order and the sisters
full of faith and diligent in their labors. They
also labored under many disadvantages, were a
long way from the centre Stake of Zion and
had not had much teaching from experienced
sisters.
	Pres. Young made some telling remarks and
inquired concerning the Stakes not yet re-
ported, blessed the sisters especially those who
had come long distances to attend the meet-
ings, hoped the good spirit of the Conferences
would be carried to their homes, and that the
saints would increase and prosper in the land,
said many good things, and blest all the
assembly in the name of Jesus.
	Sister Horne added a few remarks and
spoke of the Convention in the afternoon.
	Sister S. M. Kimball thought all were grow-
ing weary, but she was deeply interested in
the proceedings of this day, she had been
looking back over the 47 years since the first
organization when there were about nineteen
members now there were 16,747, and there
were seven stakes of Zion not reported also all
beyond the sea in other lands. “This is no
small thing. We should increase in knowledge
and good works. We are as a light set upon
a hill, jealousy, prejudice, envy should not
find place in our hearts; one of the prime ob-
jects of this organization is self culture; a
committee has been appointed to regulate our
Stake Conferences, hope this will be brought
to pass. Woman’s work is progressing, was
delighted to see the baby in the speaker’s arms
to-day; it proved her equal to the emergency.
	Sister E. B Wells spoke upon the great
good to be accomplished by means of woman’s
aid in various directions, and alluded to the
results achieved by woman’s persistent agita-
tion in the New England States and else-
where of the injustice of the law in regard to
married women’s rights. Referred to the new
constitutions for the admission of States and
how they stood on the question of equal
suffrage etc, urged women to read and inform
themselves for their own sake and the good of
community. Thought we had need of charity
			[Column Two]
that we might be more helpful to each other
and be as charitable to others as we would
wish them to be to us.
	Dr. Barney read a written article.” The
beautiful we admire, and we can glean valua-
ble lessons from God’s disposition, in distribu-
ting, arranging and organizing the elements,
and forming mankind with the variety of dis-
positions and attributes that are made manifest
in the very beginning of his or her being.
	The placid disposition is admired because
of its evenness and possessing the property to
yield.
	The positive or active nature is admired
because it can remove difficulties and sur-
mount obstacles.
	The Skeptic is always in doubt, and restless,
not fixed in his purpose; in him hope and
faith are deficient.
	The artist is absorbed, and lost in his own
environment, and is only companionable to
others as they can grasp with him and have
lively imaginations of the ideality that exists
in his mind.
	Thus we may view the great panorama of
variety, as it passes before our eyes in imagin-
ation, both the animate and inanimate, animal,
and vegetable, and wonder as we admire and
ask ourselves the question. What is all this?
—God.
	The irritable husband is modified, as time
passes on by the worn, tired, passive wife, if
not in life, in death he learns her worth.
	The overbearing selfish child relents, when
it sees its injured sister turn from his tan-
talizing power and presence.
	Thus lesson after lesson is learned, and the
great school of experience is widened out, al-
most without limitation.
	We have the bitter and the sweet, also the
acid and an-tacid, they neutralize each other,
and in new formed compounds the original
nature of the element is lost. For example
the housewife readily understands that the oil
and alcohol, are antagonistical to each other,
and thus they neutralize each other, and form
a fresh compound unlike the first, the nature is
changed and will be no more the same unless
broken up from its combination and returns
to its original elements. Thus we may com
pare the life of a Latter-day Saint, the indi-
vidual is changed in his views and dispositi-
ons, and likings, by his surroundings,
associations, and heavenly influences, and you
learn his life’s history, you can discern that
if he has hugged closely to the laws of the
Divine Teacher, you will find pencil traces of
the master artist, if not, his history is more
rudely completed, and the final compound or
result is, an imperfect one and not so elegant.
	We read in Genesis 1-26. “God said let
us make man in our image after our likeness,
27 verse says, so God created man in his own
image.” God was, as we are, and we will be,
as he is, as we advance to that degree of
excellence and knowledge.
	The most of humanity are endowed with a
love for the beautiful, yet there are individuals,
that cannot discern green from blue, or a dif-
ference between colors, they are called color
blind, we might say they, were deficient in
their organization.
	Another is not a musician, he may have
time, but no tune, or he may have neither
time nor tune, who is to blame? who is the
originator of all this? who set the rugged cliff
behind the blushing flower? who caused the
weeping  willow to grow beside you cataract?
shall we faint because a truth exists, no! we
will in our delineation endeavor to portray
upon life’s canvas as it were with the painter’s
brush, forms light and shade with color, and
tint, until our imaginations and invention
have reached the reality.
	Did not Joseph in his life’s history and
character, imitate the life of Jesus? was not
			[Column Three]
his a life of virtue, and his a martyr’s death?
we may learn a lesson from him.
	Our entire being should be endued with
gospel graces. If our first thoughts in the
morning are to do the will of our Father, and
our last feelings at night are to do our
Father’s will, our rest will be sweet and our
final sleep will be heavenly.
	There is a growth in Zion, the knowledge
that has been obtained by sad experience in
some respects has made the boy more manly;
and the girl more womanly; and the people
more Godlike. The mason’s hands have not
been staid, but our temple is towering heaven-
ward.
	Pres. Young made some closing remarks,
felt we had been blessed in meeting under
such favorable circumstances in such a beautiful
place, spoke of her love for all the sisters and
felt grateful for this opportunity of coming
together and hearing from the several Stake
organizations, trusted much good might result
from the assembling of ourselves together in
this capacity; warned the sisters not to speak,
against each other, said our principles are
perfect in life or in death, let us abide by
them, thanked all and blessed them in the
name of Jesus. Amen. The congregation
arose and sung Doxology. Conference ad-
journed for six months, prayer by Elder C. J.
Thomas.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference held at
Mesa City, Sept. 19, 1889. Opened by the
usual exercises. Upon the stand were the R.
S. Stake officers and others; and also Pres. C.
I. Robson, Coun. H. C. Rogers, C. R. Hakes,
and Bishop Pomeroy. Sister M. A. Hakes
rejoiced at again meeting the saints, had been
away on a visit to the Snowflake Stake had a
very pleasant time, spoke highly of the hospi-
tality and general good feeling of the people
there. Reported the R. S. Society of the Mesa
Ward as doing well and in good working order.
Spoke upon the storing of grain.
	Sister Lizzie Macdonald gave a good report
of the Lehi Ward, thought their meetings were
improving all the time, said the people of the
world had rejected the prophets, but if an
astronomer made a prediction the whole world 
were looking for the result; spoke also of the
storing of grain.
	Sister Ann Kleinman reported the Alma
Ward showing that a portion of the sisters
were alive to their duties, encouraged mothers
to be more zealous.
	Sister Susan Savage spoke encouragingly of
the Papago Ward said the native sisters were
anxious to learn from their white sisters the
domestic duties of wives and mothers.
	Sister Esther Openshaw represented the
Nephi Ward, said the sisters were trying to do
their duties in the Society and to keep the
commandments of God.
	Coun. C. R. Hakes and H. C. Rogers, Bishop
Pomeroy and Pres. C. I. Robson encouraged
the sisters and gave some good advice. A
general good feeling prevailed. Adjourned for
three months.
			F. E. Robson, Stake Sec. R. S.


