A PICTURE FOR CONTEMPLATION.

	There is a growing evil, subject matter of
vital importance, demanding the serious
consideration, deep reflection and firm res-
olution of parents and guardians, and more
especially those who are still more interested
parties, existing in our city and Territory,
flourishing unnoticed, unexposed, but fall-
ing with crushing weight, overwhelming
disaster, irretrievable ruin, on a class of
persons who in every civilized country in
the world enlist the sympathy and generous
disenterested protection of honorable men.
I allude to our young women and the sinis-
ter manner in which a certain class of
adventurers now in our midst retail their
pestiferous romances into their unsuspecting
ears. Now, marriage in the abstract
“is honorable in all,” but what language
can be too severe in reprobating the conduct,
the unmanly practices of those unscrupulous
excrescences of humanity, in seducing
young and guileless girls into most misera-
ble conditions under false pretences? It
has become an every day occurrence for
marriage to be contracted between a young
woman of the Mormon faith and a stranger
of no faith at all,  through his wily repre-
sentations of possessing immense wealth;
“gold and silver mines,” “Government
Bonds,” “money in the Bank of England,”
“Ships on the ocean,” “Carriage and six
horses in the stable,” and all—corresponding
precisely with the novel just read of Prince
Don Humblebug or General Fitzgerald
Thimblerig. She falls, an easy, unconscious,
confiding victim, into his power. She being
virtuous, to enable him to accomplish his
nefarious designs, the marriage ceremony
must be performed. Cash is often borrowed
or stolen to meet the expenses of the occa-
sion; and after the “Honey Moon” is over,
(generally rising and setting beneath the
parental roof of the young bride,) there are
not enough funds on hand to enable him
to purchase a common kitchen table. The
chagrined parents and disappointed daughter
have to make the best of a “bad bargain.”
“He’s your husband,” “I’m his wife,”
settles the question with them for the time
being, for marriage is marriage in all com-
munities. Means are furnished by the
parents for temporary convenience, a room
“fitted up” In the old homestead, and this
farce in bogus “high life” ends in the con-
temptible picture—a husband—lodger.
	The "mine fails," the “ships are lost,”
the cashier of the London Bank “don’t
write,” the carriage and horses are “sold”
to purchase a share in a newly discovered
mine, to be second to the famed “Emma”—
a buggy can be hired for fifty cents an hour
at the expense of the “old folks.” “With- 
out visible” or invisible meanes of support,
loafing in the saloon, at Godbe’s corner, or
in Clinton’s court—waiting for something
to “turn up;” returning to his unreplenished
quarters as night approaches, he adds false-
hood to falsehood to satisfy his expectant
wife and quiet her fears. And where does
this detestable course of deception termi-
nate? In much unhappiness, final abandon-
ment—miserable divorcement. Parents and
maidens of Israel, reflect upon this matter;
at best, "How can two walk together
except they be agreed."
						Prudence.
Salt Lake City, May 31st 1873.


﻿A curious garment trimmed with a band
of feathers of every imaginable color, and
called the Louis XIII vest, is now worn by
ladies in Paris. A minute description is
unnecessary—our fashion belles will doubt-
less parade the article by another season.


