WOMAN’S VOICE.
			Harrisville, Weber Co., Utah,
							May 11th, 1873.
Dear Editor:—
	I write feeling a lively interest in your
valuable paper, and knowing it is the privi-
lege and duty of all lovers of Zion’s cause,
to throw in their mites, to assist in bringing
to light the sacred truth, and making honor-
able mention of the kind dealings of God.
I perceive the set time to favor Zion has
come; when woman, the weaker vessel, can
do much to advance the cause of truth on
the earth, although wicked men are seeking
to take from her her natural rights, and
Satan stirreth up their hearts to do her
injustice. We, in Utah, have, and still
shall have the right to say who shall be our
leaders, lawgivers, and representatives; and,
if I may be allowed the remark, husbands
to lead us back into the presence of our
Father and our God. And now while we
have thousands of ways to make ourselves
useful in our families, and in all the great
and small duties of life; relieving the poor
by large or small donations; visiting the
sick; administering words of comfort and
consolation—we have also the great and in-
estimable privilege of worshiping God
according to the dictates of our own con-
science, believing in polygamy as the
patriarchal order of marriage, through which,
(when rightly entered into, and lived in,)
we enjoy the great blessings of the ancient
patriarchs and prophets with their families.
Oh! happy daughters of Zion. Oh! happy
Saints of God! do we realize the great and
glorious privileges we enjoy? Never was
woman blest with greater freedom. Still
we are called the “down-trodden women of
Utah!” We ignore the idea, and truthfully
attest that we have more privileges than
any other women on the face of the earth.
	Our Relief Society here is under the
guidance of worthy and competent sisters
whose whole aim seems to be to advance and
promote the cause of God on the earth.
								E. S.

	Now that there is such ample room open-
ed for our present, as well as future, profit
and usefulness, if we do not accept the
chances given us we can no more complain
for that complete advantage that the world
has so long withheld from woman. What
should be woman’s aim? Some ladies use
the plea, that the requirement of those call-
ings (which have been heretofore man’s ex-
clusive privilege) will strip them of their
delicacy, refinement, and of their feminine
attractiveness. Genuine worth need not
fear discovery. If a lady has a knack at
numbers, and would make an excellent book
keeper, where is the harm? If her abilities
fit her for a position behind the counter, let
her skill be tried; or if blessed with sufficient
natural talent to become an artist, her
endowments must not be hid under a bushel.
Girls, you who are so pale, and wan, and
pretty (!) do not scoff at this; your own
welfare and that of your posterity depends
in some measure upon woman’s cultivation
and aggrandizement. Listless purposes and
languid exertions will never exalt one.
Work with a will and a noble determination
to do the world some good. The excuse is
offered that being fitted for and filling those
mentioned places, husbands and children are
neglected by wives and mothers. The
question immediately presents itself, Does
not woman neglect her family for dress,
visiting, and amusements? But we do by
no means intend to insinuate that there are
duties belonging to motherssuperior to the
care of their children. How many are not
blessed with children? How many poor
girls without homes? How often do we
hear the phrase, a “strong minded woman,”
sneeringly uttered? Shall we devote our
admiration to weak minded women? Is
the feeble proselyte to society to be prefer-
red to the girl who is bent on nobly fashion-
ing the character God gave her, and gaining
a profession that will fill her purse as well
as her mind? Woman’s true nature is not
thoroughly alert until aroused by the wish
to do something that is independent. Do
not mistake my meaning. There is a vast
difference between a silly, conceited and
arrogant independence, and the honorable
desire to be helpful and useful. May the
ladies of our Territory improve the rich
advantages laid before them! Persever-
ance will complete success, and it has been
truthfully said, “what has already been done
may be done again.” In many ages of the
world women, with voice and hand, have
acquired distinction and honor for the noble
and brave efforts they have made. Have
not the daughters of Zion every thing to
encourage them! With an inspired leader
to assist, admonish and counsel, what
triumph of heart and brain may they not
achieve!
								Kent.


﻿We Chronicled, last issue of the Expo-
nent, the death of more than forty persons
by the falling of a bridge over the Rock
River, at Dixon, Illinois, during the celebra-
tion of the ordinance of baptism in the water
below. Now we have to record another of
these oft recurring “accidents,” which oc-
curred on the 22nd ult., during the laying
of the corner stone of a new Roman Catholic
church, in Pennsylvania. A temporary
flooring, on which a multitude had assem-
bled, gave way and precipitated them to the
ground beneath. A great many were in-
jured, but none killed so far as reported.

	The Brave Illinois Girl Who Saved
a Ralway Train from Destruction.—
As a little girl, Lizzie Bourland by name,
who resides at Woodlawn, Ill., on the line
of the St. Louis and Southern Railroad,
was passing down the track yesterday after-
noon on her way to the next station
(Roache’s,) she discovered a lot of brush
upon the track, which she concluded to
remove. Upon lifting a portion of the brush
she discovered a tie across the track. she
endeavored to remove the tie, but being
a child of only thirteen years of age, her
strength was inadequate. Just then, to her
horror she heard the train coming. With
presence of mind far exceeding her years,
she grasped her parasol and signaled the
train to stop, keeping it in violent motion
until she heard the engineer whistling down-
brakes. As the train was only about
one hundred yards distant when the signal
was given, of course the engine struck the
tie, notwithstanding the air-brakes were
put on to the fullest extent, but the speed
was so lessened by the time the obstacle
was struck that no damage was done. The
conductor of the train stopped and took up
the little girl and carried her to her desti-
nation, after thanking her for the timely
warning which, doubtless, saved a number
of lives. The train was a passenger train
bound West, and due in St. Louis at 4:32,
which point it reached in safety, through the
thoughtfulness and presence of mind of
the little girl.—“St. Louis Globe, May 8th.”


﻿Miss Edmonia Lewis, (colored,) our
famous American sculptress in Rome, has
two orders of $50,000  from British
noblemen.


