HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Steel engraved portraits of President
B. Young are ready and handsomely framed for
those who have sent in clubs calling for them.
Will they please say how they wish the por-
traits forwarded? 
	Very warm pleasant sunshine h asdiffused
its genial influence through all nature, in and
around this city, during the past days of the
present month; and the grateful earth ac-
knowledges the favor, by putting on her lovely
summer robes, and wearing smiles as bright as
though the cold wet weather of the last month
had been forgotten.
	A communication from a young lady in
Manchester, England, will be found in the
present issue of the Exponent. We are pleased
to hear from our friends in different parts of
the world, and gratefully appreciate kind words
of encouragement from those who wish us well
in our humble efforts to do good and extend
the Truth.
	The other day, the "Salt Lake Herald;"
for all the world like a sensible and prudent
lady, put on a neat new dress and went straight
ahead with its every-day work, as though noth-
ing unusual had happened, and there was no
necessity for asking the notice and admiration
of friends to increase its good nature and happy
self-satisfaction.
	Measures are being taken by Sabbath
School superintendents and teachers, to have,
at an early date, a grand Sabbath School Con-
cert, in this city, in which several thousand
children, it is expected, will join. A joyous
time is anticipated, and well may be; for what
music, either in nature or from studied science
can be more sweetly rendered than that of child-
ren's voices nicely diciplined ?
	On the evening of the 3rd inst., a very
creditable concert was given in the 15th Ward
in this city; and a like entertainment was held
in the 14th Ward Asssembly Rooms on the
evening of the 9th. These musical recreations
are given in the different Wards from time to
time for the benefit of the Sabbath Schools,
purchase of church organs and other like
purposes, and should be liberally patronized.
	The death of the faithful, much respected
and well beloved Elder in Israel, Joseph W.
Young, which occurred at Harrisburg, Wash-
ington County, Southern Utah, on the evening
of the 7th inst., is the occasion of much and
keen regret among his many friends, who, we
believe to be as numerous as his acquaintances.
None, perhaps have felt the shock more deeply
than his aged mohter; who, although her home
has been for some years, with her children in the
South, was, at the time of the sad occurrence,
visiting among her friends in Cache Valley.
	Before another number of the Exponent
is issued, Miss Eliza R. Snow will have reached
her home in this city, where a warm welcome
awaits her. Her letters which appear in this
number, will, therefore, be the last presented
to her numerous friends throughout the Terri-
tory, during her absence. Yet, our journal
being small, she has, in writing for it, been
obliged to compress, and study brevity, merely
tripping over the ground; we may, consequently,
safely anticipate still further accounts from her
generous pen, which will be of a most interest-
ing and instructive character to the women of
the Latter-day Saints, after her return home.
	A lady of this city, speaks of having acci-
dently overheard a group of sensible gentle-
men, commenting upon the taste displayed and
waste indulged in by a portion of the "coming
women." They counted over their wages, and
then the cost of supporting a wife, and concluded
they could not marry. Besides, it was disgust-
ing to them to see so little sense manifested by
beings who should be intelligent. It was sug-
gested to us to warn such young ladies, through
the Exponent, that they would never have
chances to marry well until they reformed; but
we do not think that any whose fancies are
carried away with fashion, ever read the Expo-
nent therefore, the hint would be given in
vain, unless it might be an encouraging feature
to some of the persevering members of our
Retrenchment Associations.
	The traffic of liquor and the painful results
thereof, having reached a degree so disgraceful
as not to be patiently and silently borne by
good and temperance loving citizens,has been pe-
titioned againanst d a prohibition asked of these
gross and accumulating evils, so far as possible,
in this city; and that a majority of the ladies,
at least, have affixed their names to the peti-
tion, or will do so, is certain, if the eagerness
with which quite a number have been wit-
nessed signing, is any criterion. On Sunday,
the 8th inst., President Brigham Young put the
matter to a vote of the people assembled in the
Tabernacle, and it was clearly evinced that the
general feeling was, as it should be in an intel-
ligent community, not in favor of unrestricted
liquor traffic. Most likely many who have
grown into a habit of taking stimulents, until
it is as necessary for them, almost as food,
would feel to condemn the restriction on
this greatest source of all evil. But in after
time, it might be impossible for them to say
how vast the individual good wrought each one
of them by having "the knife with which he
was cutting his own throat" taken out of his
hand.


