EDITORIAL NOTES.

	English Newspapers are agitating the
necessity of raising their prices—results
doubtful.
	Asiatic cholera rages in Russian
Poland and West Prussia. One of the
plauges.
	Fourth of July fire-works are prohibited
in Boston. Such amusement is no novelty
in that city, and they don’t like the exhibi-
tion nor its results.
	The sea is gradually swallowing up Long
Branch; about 15 feet of the bluff went last
winter. A few seasons more will be likely
to find the inhabitants wading out.
	Reports of large fires with great destruc-
tion of property, hail storms, tornadoes, etc.,
still continue to stand forth, prominent
features in the signs of the times.
	The Woman Suffrage Association of New
England has given a festival and tea party,
which, according to reports, was a grand
success and greatly enjoyed by the partici-
pants.
	Thirty more persons were lately hurried
into eternity, being drowned by the steam-
ship Drummond Castle, of London, going
ashore on Chusan Island, off the east coast
of China, and becoming a total wreck.
	A man in Bullionville, Nevada, is sen-
tenced to 80 days imprisonment for knock-
ing down and brutally beating his aged
mother. Why didn't the court say eight
years, or call the wretch “insane" and
dismiss him?
	A lady asked the question the other day,
why it was that so much was said about
women's always talking; and a good natured
gentleman honestly confessed that it was
because men had the "say," and made it
what they pleased.
	The Daily papers have been detailing ac-
counts of an assassination committed by a nine-
teen year old youth upon his father, in New
York. Domestic troubles, it appears, were
the disagreeable causes of such fatal results,
the family,—Walworth—aristocratic and re-
spectable.
	The question, what to do with Captain
Jack, of the Modocs, seems to be a difficult
one to settle. Though it is certain that
desperation drove him into committing foul
and treacherous murders, there are two
sides to the story, and his accusers may
well pause.
	Subscriptions are being raised in New
York to assist Susan B. Anthony in defend-
ing nerself against the indictmet for voting
at the last general election.  If the women
of the United States had money enough,
they could, doubtless, buy the right to vote,
as readily as other bribes are now offered
and accepted, between the corrupted govern-
ment and a reckless people.
	A touching story is given in the New
York “World” of a late date, concerning
the death of a Mrs. Roderick, caused by a
shot from a pistol in the hand of her son.
She attempted to separate him and another
young man who had repeatedly insulted and
sought a quarrel with him and the fatal
shot was the consequence. Young Roderick,
though exempt from all blame apparently,
is reported almost crazy over the sad affair.
	A Russian community, the Memonites,
are sending a small body to reco[-]moiter in
Monitoba and determine if that country is
suitable for their co-religionists to colonize.
They seek freedom and peace, in the enjoy-
ment of their religion, as thousands have
done before them.
	How any one can discern truth from
error in relation to news items to-day, is
almost invisible to people in general. The
Hong Kong and Shanghai cable is broken
—then it is not broken but the report was a
false one.  Victoria Woodhull is dead—
then she lives, but doesn't know it. An emi-
grant train and regular express train collided
at Como—then it was not a collision or any
thing of the kind. And so it is the world
progresses.
	George Francis Train was acquitted of
the charge of publishing obscene literature
on the ground of insanity; and was then
declared sane, for the second time, by a jury
of his countrymen! Great is the law, as
modern courts interpret and administer it.
He was wanted as a witness in the suit of
the United States government against the
Credit Mobilier, but he was off for Europe
before the summons reached him.   He can
now tell Europeans what he knows about
American Bastiles. 
	By the Liverpool, “Millennial Star,”
President Albert Carrington of the Euro-
pean Missions Editor, we see that the
season's emigration from Europe for Utah
was to commence on June 4th, it being
arranged that the first company should start
on that day. There are many in Utah hav-
ing means to spare who have friends in
Europe desiring emigrating and needing
assistance.  As ye have been blessed, be
liberal and bless those who are now situated
as you once were. There are many here
who were assisted to emigrate by the fund
for that purpose, and who are yet indebted
for the aid then and thus rendered. Pay
that indebtedness and realize the blessing
of meeting a just obligation and of render-
ing worthy assistance at the same time.
Mothers, wives and sisters, keep this before
your sons, husbands and brothers.
	The record of great fires throughout
the United States keeps swelling.  On the
30th ult. over a million dollars worth of
property, in houses and goods, was burned
in Boston, and numerous other large fires
have occurred since; while leading cities are
discussing the efficiency of their depart-
ments. But with all the advance in science
and arts, mankind have not yet found out
the way to overcome “the signs of the
times,” nor secure the immunity from evils
which they naturally seek. Physicians and
panaceas multiply, and so do undertakers
and hospitals, the race becoming more sub-
ject to ills and the penalties of dissipated
lives;  science and skill still accomplish
wonders of engineering triumphs, but dis-
asters destroying precious lives are of such
constant occurrence that one horror is
scarcely by before another is heard of; and
while fire departments have apparently
almost reached perfection in the larger
cities, never, so far as history records, did
the consuming fire devour so frequently so
much of the products of human labor and
skill!
	The present state of portions of the
world, and the reckless, demoniacal spirit by
which men are actuated in some instances
is fearfully depicted in the following brief
paragraph: “In Italy a second Troppmann
has been arrested. A man named Antonio
Evangelista, one evening went to the
house of a friend, a contadino, Antonio
Lucacalche, and asked the loan of five lire.
Lacacalche, said he would give it to him in
Gulaccio, where he was going on the follow-
ing day, and it was arranged that Evange-
lista should accompany him, and accordingly,
at an early hour,  they left the house.
When upon the country  road, Evangelista
turned suddenly upon Lucacalche, and, with
a hatchet, laid open the head of the unsus-
pecting man, and then finished him with a
dagger blow in the throat. Coolly turning
back to the house, he called the wife to
come out, saying that her husband wanted
her. No sooner had she come into the road
than a like fate met her, a hatchet blow
killing her instantly. The son, hearing her
death-cry, ran to her aid, but he fell under
the axe-of the inhuman assassin. An only
daughter, seeing from the window the
fearful sight, successfully barred the door,
and the ruffian, after repeated attempts,
turned away and disappeared.  He was
arrested the following day at Cassino.
	The following may be both important,
interesting and profitable to some young
couples about to emigrate from a state of
single blessedness to that of united felicity.
It is a contemporary who thinks “that a
man about to marry can commit no greater
error than to interfere in any way with
regard to his intended wife’s trousseau. By
so doing he is guilty of an act of extreme
presumption, and he also incurs a pecuniary
responsibility often of a serious, nature. In
a dispute about a bride’s trousseau, Sheriff
Lees, at Airdrie, Scotland, has just issued
an interlocutor, which fully enters into the
law as to the husband’s liability in this
respect. In the case in question the hus-
band was sued by the tradesman who
supplied the outfit, and, as it was clearly
proved that they were supplied on the
defendant's order, the sheriff held him liable
in the amount of the account, £27s. 8s.,
with £3 Is. 11d. costs. The defences stated
were: First—That it was the duty of the
bride's father to provide her wedding outfit;
and, second, that the account should be
reduced or disallowed, as it was extrava-
gant for the position of the defendant’s wife.
The learned sheriff, in a long note, enters
into the law off this point, and finds that
while in ordinary cases the husband would
not be liable, yet when as in this case the
goods were got on his express order, he must
be held to be the responsible party, and can-
not be allowed to complain of extrava-
gance. This seems only fair: for if husbands
have ordered their wife’s trousseaus they
cannot complain if they are subsequently
called upon to pay; but often both husband
and wife a few months after marriage
bitterly regret that a large sum which might
have been usefully expended in paying the
grocer's, butcher's and baker's bills, or in
furnishing their house, has found its way in-
to the milliner's pocket in the purchase of a
vast number of useless articles."


