THE GIRLS

	It is a verity that will not admit of being
remembered but once in a while, that the
winsome "wee lassies" who romp about
to-day in their bibs and pantelets, will
shortly fill the positions of wives and
mothers.
	So much is truthfully said about the
frivolities and worthlessness of fashionable
young ladies of the day, that one can
scarcely wonder at most parents feeling
half disappointed when a new member is
introduced to the family circle and does not
happen to be of the boy persuation. But
after all, who is most at fault for the vain
and senseless lives of so many of the women
of the 19th century? Where do our
daughters first imbibe their foolish fascina-
tion for extravagance and  meaningless
display in dress; their almost excusable
though selfish ambition to rival each other
in attracting attention and gaining smiles
and words of flattery and consideration; and
their manifest inclinations to idleness or
wanton, careless exercise? Where is the
good, true, industrious and judicious mother
who gives to society the encumbrance of a
silly, flirting, fashionable daughter? We
find none such. 
	It has become a common rule with mo-
thers to foster in the minds of their little
daughters the belief that to dress richly and
be pert and talkative are the chief means of
winning attraction, which must be the
princpal aim of their existence. 
	Nor are mothers alone to blame in the
making of these general mistakes. Well-
to-do fathers take pride themselves in noting
the pleasure with which their bright,
vivacious, witching little darlings will array
themselves  instead of correcting their childish
vanities, by purchasing for them, or en-


couraging their mothers to do so, the most
trifling articles which their fancies demand
	Then, these seeming household treasures,
which should be real ones, are rarely taught
to imagine they might assist in earning or
manufacturing portions of their most neces-
sary clothing. Said an extravagant, and
inconsiderate mother a few years ago when
her husband was thought to be well off,
	“I don’t want my girl to learn to knit;
her father has but the one daughter, and if
he can’t keep her in stockings she can go
without.”
	And this was spoken in the presence of
her seven year old daughter!
	Whether that daughter has gone without
stockings since or not, it does not matter;
but a truth is that the family has seen very
hard times, and are still miserably poor;
while the girl, a young woman now, is an
idle, selfish and unloveable creature,
	If we want our daughters to become
amiable, refined, sensible and beautiful
women, we must give them the principles
upon which to erect such characters, Teach
them to be industrious and orderly in all
their habits, and to value the worth of genu-
ine intelligence, and they will find little time
and less desire to run wild after fashion.
							Mignonia.


