WHAT NOT.

	Smiles may not always win the case,
but they do sometimes, while frowns never 
do.
	A Western editor says that fresh water
has tasted strong of sinners since the uni-
versal deluge, and this is why he flavors it. 
	Miss Walters affirms that good husbands
are like dough because women need (knead) 
them.
	Speaking of the danger of catching small-
pox by handling greenbacks, a country
editor congratulates himself that he’s safe
enough.
	Josh Billings says: I luv my phalings.
It is these that make me feel that I have
that touch ov nature in me that makes me
brother tew every man living.
	If you would be well with a great mind,
leave him with a favorable impression of
you; if with a little mind, leave him with a
favorable impression of himself.—Coleridge. 
	It is not "the thing" now to wear the bridal
vail over the face at all. It is twisted about
the head in a manner strongly suggestive
of a burlesque actress about to have her
photograph taken.
	A canary bird hung in its cage over
night at the top of a curtained bed, has
been found dead in the morning from the
poisoned atmosphere created by the human
lungs of the sleepers below it.
	That was a delicate compliment given
by a ragged newsboy to the pretty girl who
bought a paper of him. “Poor little fellow,”.
said she, “ain’t you very cold?” “I was,
ma’am, before you passed,” he replied.
	A Yankee grocer, being solicited to con-
tribute to the building of a new church,
promptly subscribed his name to the paper
in the following manner: “John Jones (the
only place in town where you can get eleven
pounds of good sugar for one dollar), twenty-
five cents.”
	“What time is it, my-dear?” asked a
wife of her husband, whom she suspected
of being drunk, but who was doing his best
to look sober. “Well, my darling, I can't
tell; 'cause you see, there are two hands on
my watch, and each  points to a different
figure, and I don't know which to believe.”
	George Selwyn once affirmed in com-
pany that no woman ever wrote a letter
without a postscript. “My next letter shall
refute you!” said lady G. Selwyn soon
after received a letter from her ladyship,
wherein after her signiture, stood: P. S.
“Who is right now, you or I?”
	It is no more a sign of a smart boy to be
a great reader, than it is of a strong man to
be a great eater. One may read too much
as well as eat too much, and the brain as
well as the stomach be loaded with undi-
gested food that is only an injury to it. It
is not what you eat, but what you digest
that makes you strong.
	A lazy dyspeptic was bewailing his own
misfortunes, and speaking with a friend on
the latter’s hearty appearance. “What do
you do to make yourself look so strong and
healthy?” inquired the dyspeptic, “Live
on fruit alone,” answered the friend. "What
kind of fruit” “The fruit of industry; and
I am never troubled with indigestion.
	True bravery is sedate and inoffensive;
if it refuses to submit to insults, it offers
none; It begins no disputes; enters no need-
less quarrels; it is above the little trouble-
some ambition to be distinguished every
moment; it bears in silence and replies with
modesty, fearing no enemy and making
none; and is as much ashamed of insolence
as cowardice.


