LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE.
				   ——
		    ST. GEORGE, UTAH, May 13, 1873.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
    Perhaps you thought “Flora” had faded
out, like a withered rose, or gone to seed
like a dandelion. No such thing; not a bit
of it. But the household pets, both animate
and inanimate, or the children and flower
nursing, after the thousand duties of the
morning are over, leave the maternal head
of the family little time for "pen and ink
sketches." Now you wonder what a woman
can find to busy herself about so much in
this pleasant, sunny clime, where the “shade
of the vine and fig tree" is supposed to yield
a tranquil and safe repose; but my dear
woman, though the fact is here, the idea is
a myth. The vine and fig tree already
furnish a delicious and fragrant shade, to
woo us on to its enjoyment—but—ah that
treacherous word—how often it steps in to
mar our brightest hopes and expectations of
happiness and delight! Just as we step
forward to enter upon the sweet enjoyment,
we remember that the verdant vine and fig
tree, as well as the little ones, must be fed,
and that we have omitted to give them
their moisture in season—yes, and all the
other pets in the parlor garden await their
period of nursing ere their fragrant bloom
droops. So with a hearty pleasure we turn
aside from the coveted ease, and live with
our flowers for an hour; studying and sup-
plying their wants, bringing a pleasure and
giving a rest that makes the hour seem but
a moment. By this time we become so
much interested that we fill the remaining
leisure by a stroll around the flower garden,
where the rose, the lily and the peonia
in wondrous beauty and gorgeous array
hold queenly court amid the thousand lesser
flowers, which, in hues and forms innumer-
able, adorn our little Eden, and are widely
scattered along the terraced walks; where
the musical waterfalls sparkle like diamonds
in the sunlight.
    We often wonder that our sisters do not
more adorn their houses and their gardens
with flowers to gladden the hearts of the
household, yielding a power that enchains
each to the home-hearth, and with an unseen
influence, bringing love and refinement,
kindness, peace and joy to the home circle.
Sisters, let the bloom of flowers surround
you, and you will think less of repose under
the vine and fig tree. Ever thine
