MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY’S ARREST.

	The New York World thus reports Miss
Anthony’s account of her voting and her
being arrested therefor:
	Miss Anthony then took the stand and
gave an account of her persecution and
prosecution for casting a vote. The place
at which she registered for dropping that
precious bit of paper was after the fashion of
an Eight avenue polling booth, and a barber
shop into the bargain. She had some sharp
arguments with the enlightened American
citizens who officiated at the registry, and
being led to suppose that her registry would
be ignored, she proposed to have a hold on
the inspectors, and straightway went to a
lawyer for counsel. She found not a “rara-
avis” of his kind, but a lawyer of the old,
old sort. He said, “Why, Miss Anthony,
you show that you know nothing at all of
law. You should pay down a round retain-
ing fee, and then you are all right.” Five
women registered in the Eight Ward of
the city of Rochester, and by their example
fifty others were incited to register in other
wards, though only fourteen out of the
whole voted. When election day came,
fearful of insult, they went early and found
no difficulty in putting their ballots through
the broken pane. The inspector said: "Miss
Anthony, you are challenged; are you ready
to swear?” “Yes," said I, and I forgot my
Quakerism and kissed the Bible. “Do you
swear you are a citizen?” etc., and I swore
(the papers made me swear I was a male
citizen). Then they made me swear that I
had neither bribed nor taken a bribe in this
election; of course I swore that. There
was $1,500 floating around that day, but no
man was challenged,  no man sworn. The
Quaker lady, Mrs. De Garmo, who followed,
was also challenged. She refused to swear,
saying, I will not swear, but I will tell the
truth, if that will answer.” The whole
party voted, and not an insulting word was
spoken. It was said that arrests would be
made, but days passed and none were made.
I began to get afraid they would not arrest
me. But finally Commissioner Storrs,
whose office is in the Arcade, sent word for
me to call at his office.  I sent word to him
that I had no social acquaintance with him
and didn’t wish to call on him. If he
wanted to see me on official business he
must come and see me. Then a young man
in a beaver hat and kid gloves (paid for by
taxes gathered from women) came to see
me. He sat down. He said it was pleasant
weather. He hemmed and hawed and said
Mr. Storrs wanted to see me at the Arcade.
“What for?” I asked. “To arrest you,"
said he. “Is that the way you arrest men?”
“No.” Then I demanded that I should be
arrested properly. My sister desiring to go
with me, he proposed that he should go
ahead and I follow with her.This I re-
fused, and he had to go with me. In the
car he took out his pocket-book to pay fare.
I asked him if he did that in his official
capacity. He said yes; he was obliged to
pay the fare of any criminal he arrested.
Well, that was the first cent’s worth I ever
had from Uncle Sam. A more wilted look-
ing officer of the law cannot be imagined
than he. And Mr. Commissioner Storrs
was not less out of his element. Miss An-
thony read the section of the Constitution
upon which she is arraigned for illegal
voting, and argued that she had not even
violated it.


﻿Mrs. Florence Knox has been engaged to
sing in Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, at a
salary of $2,500 per annum. She is a Michi-
gan lady.


