HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

	A mother has no right to bring up a
daughter without teaching her how to keep
house, and if she has an intelligent regard
to her daughter’s happiness, will not do it.
By knowing how to keep house, we do not
mean mearely how books should be arranged
on the center-table, and how to tell servants
what is wanted to be done. We mean how
to get a breakfast, a dinner, a supper; how
to make a bed; how to sweep a room; how
to do a thousand and one different things
which are requisite to keep home in order,
and to make it pleasant. A person who
does not know how to do a thing well, does
not know how to have it done well.  No
number of servants make up for the want of
knowledge in a mistress.  A family em-
ployed a girl to do general house-work. She
came just at night, and the first thing
assigned her to do was to wash the supper
dishes.  She washed them in cold water,
and without soap!  A gentleman sent home
a roasting piece of beef, and a quantity of
cut porter-house steaks. When he sat down
to dinner he learned that the new cook had
roasted the steaks!  Yet many a boarding-
school miss, at the time of her marriage,
might make either of these mistakes. Not
 ne woman in a thousand knows how to
make bread as it can be made.  And sour
tempers, scoldings, dyspepsia, with, its in-
describable horrors, and even death itself,
not unfrequently result from bad cooking.
Mothers, what ever else you can teach your
daughters, do not neglect to instruct them
in all the mysteries of house-keeping. So
shall you put them in the way of good hus-
bands and happy homes.—Exchange.
	Renewing Maroon Colors on Wool.—
Wash the good in very weak lye; then
rinse thoroughly in clean water; thus you
have a beautiful, even color, although your
goods may have been much faded and
stained. Though the color thus obtained
may not be the exact shade as when new, it
is, however, a very pretty one. The above
will not answer for other than all woolen
goods of a maroon color.
	Cochineal Coloring.—Cochineal, alum,
cream tartar, carb.  potassa,  each three
drams; water, eight ounces; sugar, six
ounces. Rub the cochineal, alum and cream
tartar with eight ounces of boiling water,
and, when cold, gradually add carb. potassa,
and strain; pour water on the strainer suffi-
cient to measure  eight fluid ounces, then
add the sugar.
	Stye on the Eyelid.—Put a teaspoon-
ful of black tea in a small bag pour on it
just enough boiling waiter to moisten it;
then put it on the eye pretty warm.  Keep
it on all night, and in the morning the stye
will be gone; if not, a second application is
sure to remove it.
	Rice Cheese-cakes.—Simmer two quarts
of cream with some mace and cinnamon,
then take it off the fire, and put in it half a
pound of ground rice, mix them well, and
again boil the cream, taking care to stir it
continually. Remove the vessel from the
fire, and beat up two dozen eggs in it.
Again make it boil, continuing to stir it,
until it becomes thick like curd, sweeten it
and add half a pound of blanched almonds
beaten up with sugar into powder.
	To make Water-Proof Cloth out of
thick ducking, the following French recipe
is given: Take two pounds four ounces of
alum, and disolve in ten gallons of water.
In like manner disolve the same quantity of
sugar of lead in a similar quantity of water,
and mix the two together.  They form a
precipitate of lead.  The clear liquor is now
[new column]
withdrawn, and the cloth immersed one 
hour in the solution, when it is taken out
and dried in the shade, washed in clean 
water and dried again. 
	Nice Cake without Eggs.—Two cups
of white sugar, two cups sour cream, two 
cups sifted flour, slightly heaping, one and
a-half teaspoons of soda, which should be
pulverized and beat up with the sugar and 
cream before the flour is added; flavor with
lemon; bake in rather quick oven. In
making cake, one needs to use her own 
judgment in regard to the quantity of flour
needed, as more is required if Spring wheat 
flour is used than for Winter wheat. One
can easily determine the amount of flour 
needed by trying a small portion in the
oven. 
	A Neat Tidy.—Take four pieces of lath
of equal length, and fasten them securely at 
the corners in a square frame, as large as 
you wish the tidy to be.  Drive tacks into 
this at the corners, and in all sides, one and
one-fourth inches apart.  Then fasten one
end of a ball of white wool on one of the
tacks next the corner, carry to the one on
the opposide site and back, then back again,
leaving three threads in a place; carry to
next tack, and proceed as before, till your
frame is filled. Then turn it and cross the
“warp” thus made at right angles in the
same way; then turn your frame again and
wind the wool “cornerwise”—excuse the
word—dividing the check squares into 
triangles—turn the frame again so as to 
cross the last at right angles. Fasten and 
cut off your white wool, and with a yarn
needle, and red wool, fasten all corners
where all courses cross, leaving several ends 
at all the outside crossings. Cut the wool
from the tacks. Trim the edges even, leav-
ing the ends as little tassels, and you have
a perfect gem of a tidy.


