NURSING THE SICK. 

	As there is nothing more productive of hap-
piness than good health, nothing more uncer-
tain than its possession, there can be no study
pursued to better advantage than that which
teaches how best to preserve and increase its
properties. There is no calling of greater im
portance or more becoming to a woman, old or
young, than that of being a good nurse, since
accidents will happen and sickness must occur
while mortality lasts. The following hints on
the subject of nursing the sick, we clip from the
writings of an intelligent author in miscellany.
	*	*	Those young ladies who have warm
affections, and ready sympathies, will seek
this duty, rather than avoid it; and though
long-continued efforts are not to be expected
from persons who act from impulse, many kind
attentions are thus paid; and a litlle knowledge
as to the best manner of performing the service,
so readily and generously undertaken, will add
much to its value. But it is only such as act
in this, as in other things, from the highest
principle, who can ever be the ready, cheerful,
indefatigable, persevering,and agreeable nurses,
that young ladies should aim to be, and may
become by self-regulation, together with a lit-
tle instructions as to the details of a sick
chamber.
	The essential qualities of a good nurse must
grow of that entire devotion of the heart to do
what is right in the smallest as in the greatest
affairs of life, which is the only foundation of
virtue and happiness.  No motives short of the
highest are proof against the trials and temp-
tations of a sick chamber; the duties of a nurse
require perfectly good faith and constant self-
sacrifice;  truth and justice are even more
essential in the intercourse of the nurse and
patient, than between man and man, in the
more public transactions of life; and without
this strict principle, this single purpose to do
right in all things, no instructions, however
minute, can make good nurses.
	Supposing, therefore, that this indispensable
foundation exists, a young woman may easily
acquire that knowlege of nursing which shall
render her services to the sick of the highest
value. Those who have had much personal ex-
perience of illness, often learn from it how to
minister to others, how to avoid the awkward
actions from which they have themselves suf-
fered, and how to apply the remedies which have
alleviated their own pains; but those who have
never been very ill themselves, and have had
no experience in nursing, cannot know the
various ways in which the sulferings of patients
may be lessened or increased by the mode of
attending upon them.  One who has never en-
[new column]
dured a nervous headache cannot imagine the 
aggravation of it produced by a heavy step in 
the room, the banging or creacking of a door, 
admitting light through a crack in the shutters, 
asking unnecessary questions,  jarring the bed
on which the patient lies, and a thousand such
inadvertencies as seem the veriest trifles to those
who are in robust health, but are serious evils
to the sick

	Now as every young woman ought to know 
how to perform the gentle offices of a good 
nurse, and few can be supposed to have had 
much experince of sickness, it is well to gain 
the necessary information from every source 
that presents itself.

	A light step, quick but gentle movements, 
and a dexterous use of the hands, are pre-requi- 
sites in a good nurse; they seem to be natural 
endowments, and to belong, in a great degree,
to original temperament and conformation. 
But, in this as in other things, something may 
be done by cultivation, where nature has not 
done the most by observing the alert move- 
ments and nimble fingers of expert persons, 
young ladies may improve their own, and avoid 
at least that degree of clumsiness which has 
been described by saying of a person, “He uses-
his hands as if all his fingers were thumbs, and
his thumbs legs of mutton.”

	Ceaseless attention, fond and thoughtful care,
preserve many more lives than all the medical
treatment of skilled physicians. Yet it is highly 
necessary that every nurse, and every mother,
should understand how to act and what reme-
dies, in extreme cases, should be resorted to. 
 	
	At the meetings of the Co-operative Re- 
trenchment Associations, held in the 14th 
Ward Assembly Rooms, in this city, each
alternate Saturday, these subjects are now 
receiving attention and every young mother
will do well to avail herself of these opportuni-
ties of hearing the instructions there given by
experienced and intelligent ladies.


