CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

				Vienna, Austria, May 4, 1873. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Dear Lula:—My last was written after
our arrival in Munich, which, after Berlin,
Vienna and Hamburg, is first of importance
in the German Empire, and contains about
one hundred and seventy-five thousand in-
habitants. It is a handsome, live city—has
many beautiful buildings, and some wide,
clean, well-paved streets and side walks.
This is the place of nativity of Mrs. Paul A.
Schettler, whom we had the pleasure of
meeting here, she having preceded us about
two weeks, on a visit to her relatives. We
are much indebted to the kindness of her
brother, Mr. Gierisch, who tendered assist-
ance in gaining admittance to places of
interest. He conducted us through the
King’s Palace, and being in His Majesty’s
service and confidence, showed us into apart-
ments not accorded to the inspection of
general visitors, many of whom were in
some portions of the Palace with us. We
visited several rooms which represent the
sixteenth century, remaining in their origi-
nal style of that period; others of later, and
down to present date; Some of which are
only used on special royal occasions. We
passed through a large hall which was being
fitted up on the occasion of the Prince of
Bavaria wedding the Princess of Austria,
who, with some of the Austrian Court, were
to arrive in two or three days, when a grand
reception is to be given in this hall.
	When in Venice we visited a Glass Manu-
factory, where glass was spun into very fine
threads, and worked into any desirable form,
as readily as silk; and in this Bavarian
Palace we saw magnificent brocade window-
curtains, of beautiful colors, made entirely
of glass. Some apartments were ornamented
Carrington thought it a pity that so much of
the precious metal should be useless, which
with gold in great profusion. Professor
might be better employed in behalf of
suffering humanity. The four walls of one
room were hung with portraits of ladies,
called the “Beauties of Munich”—Mrs.
Schettler and I thought, Salt Lake City could
furnish as many, equally beautiful.
	The next day Mr. Gierisch obtained cards
of admission, and conducted us to one of the
many Universities in the city, which we
found to be a Normal school for the educa-
tion of teachers, which graduates about thirty
annually. The ground floor of the building
is appropriated to the Kinder-garten, a dis-
cription of which I forwarded to the
Juvenile Instructor. We visited three of
the Normal departments: in one, a lady was
superintending, while amateur young ladies
were taking practical lessons in teaching the
classes, under her supervision. The other
departments were under the immediate
tuition of gentlemen teachers. In one of
these, I remarked to one of the professors,
who accompanied us, that the young ladies’ 
appearance indicated energy of character, a
requisite attribute for teachers, to which he
assnted, adding that they were also good
natuered, which elicited a hearty respon-
sive smile of gratification from the young
ladies, and produced a pleasant general
sensation.
	In the last department, the number was
small: in this, the students were completing
their education, which we were informed,
is very thorough.
	We were shown into the Professor’s
studio, and also into the Superintendent's
Laboratory, where were chemical apparatus
and botanic specimens, some of which were
enlarged illustrations, for the benefit of
students; a manakin: also separate specimens
of human bodily organs, much enlarged,
etc. We were informed that no young lady
can obtain a diploma as teacher, until she
is a proficient in all of these branches: con-
necting the physical with the mental, is
certainly a healthful consideration in the
educational process. A cultivated mind in
a sound body, can be much more effective
in doing good, than in an unsound one;
which makes it requisite that school teach-
ers, as well as parents, should understand
the physiology, and the anatomical structure
of the human body, in order to promote its
healthful condition and adaptation, while
cultivating the mind.
	In France, boys and young men only, are
trained in gymnastics; but here, they are
practiced by both sexes. They have ap-
pointed times for these exercises—we did
not witness them.
	The afternoon of the 28th was a gala time
in Munich. At half past three, the Bava-
rian groom and Austrian bride would arrive
at the depot; and with their suit, ride in
carriages to the Palace. Of course all
Munich must see them, and that portion,
minus contiguous porticos, windows, etc.,
were on the streets and sidewalks, ourselves
with the rest, to the number, as was judged,
of from forty to fifty thousand. We were
fortunately in a position to receive, or rather
share their gracious smiles and bows; but
after all had passed, we began to think of
returning to the hotel! It was of no use to
make an effort, and we stood as still as the
presure of the crowd would admit, for some
time, bracing ourselves as much as possible,
to prevent being carried on the waves of the
streaming multitude. All were smiling
with pleasure, but this gave me the more
striking idea of the horrors attendant on a
riotous uprising, where people are subject to
be trodden to death without the possibility
of escape! Such was the eagerness of the
people to get a glimpse of the pageantry
of royalty, on this auspicious occasion, that
mounted officers were constantly on duty,
pressing them back sufficiently for the pro-
cession to pass. This young Prince is cousin
to the present king of Bavaria, who is mar-
ried.
	The evening before leaving Munich, we
were joined by Hon. Erastus Snow and his
son Erastus, who has been on a Mission in
England; Missionary Agent of New York, W.
C. Staines; Elder J. G. Bleake from the Liver.
pool office, and Elder Birch from St. George
Having from some unknown cause, fai led o  
getting our mail, the arrival of these breth-
ren, and the information they brought, was
like “light shining in a dark place.” W e
all left Munich on the morning of the 29th,
when twelve and a half hours by rail
brought us three hundred miles to Vienna. 
This is truly a beautiful city, said to contain
640,000 inhabitants. The streets are broad,
with many open squares for free ventilation
and are kept clean; the houses are frequently
five stories high, and neatly built. By
ascending some four hundred and twenty
steps in the spire of St. Stephen’s Church,
we had a magnificent view of the city and
surroundings, including the exterior of the
unrivaled Palace of the Exposition, or
“World Fair,” which in the distance of two
miles, appeared as if washed by the noble
Danube, on which we saw little boats mov- 
ing, apparently in miniature. 
	The Fair was formally opened on the 1s[-]
of May, as per announcement, but it will be
one month at least, before its arrangements
are completed. Many hands are constantly
at work making preparations for, and un-
packing boxes of articles. The American
Department is very little arranged, and I
think no one is complete; and yet there is
very much of the useful and ornamental
already on exhibition; enough to illustrate
the magnitude of design, and the order and
magnificence of the arrangements. The
Crystal Palace, in London, is a splendid
affair, but will not bear comparison with this
in Vienna. 
	Since leaving home I have seen many
places and many people—people in contrasts
of circumstances, with wide extremes of
habit and customs—have seen the rich, in
pomp and grandeur, and the poor in beggary
and wretchedness—have associated with
the highly educated and refined, and with
the ignorant and semi-civilized have—visited
magnificent royal palaces, and wretched
abodes—have traveled over fertile plains
and sterile deserts, verdant valleys and
snow-capped mountains; and, although
I have cherished a constant determination
to enjoy everything enjoyable, while abroad
and have realey done so, I still think, as I
have hitherto invariably thought, that home, 
with the Latter-day Saints, is the
place of the highest happiness attain-
able on earth.
						Eliza R. Snow. 

	Hamburg, Germany, May 16, 1873. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:— 
	Dear Lula:—We left Vienna on the 9th,
and arrived at Berlin, the capital of Ger-
many, the next evening. The cold, stormy
weather which overtook us at Munich,
followed us to Vienna and from there to
Berlin, where we had but one sunny day,
which we improved in out door sight-seeing.
Walking down the principal promenade in
the city, called Linden Street, (Unter der
Linden) so named from being lined with
four rows of lime trees; we strolled into the
Thier Garten, an extensive public, ground
with artificial forests and shrubbery—garden
plats, with statues in the center surrounded
with flour beds in full bloom—broad streets
for carriages and omnibuses—side walks for
pedestrians and on opposite sides, roads for
horseback riders. These streets, many
in number, cross at right angles, and
extend far away in the distance, forming
delightful avenues through the tall trees
with their fresh, shady foliage. This fur-
nishes a healthful exercise and innocent
recreation for thousands. Here we saw
multitudes of people of all classes—promen-


ading, riding on horseback, in carriages,
omnibuses and coaches; while others, seated
on rustic benches, formed to correspond to
the surrounding scenery, were enjoying the
social chat under shade of waving branches.
It was truly delightful; and I thought that
Salt Lake City, with its ample streets,
beautiful streamlets and the  many advantages
it possesses, is quite deficient in this respect
—it greatly needs cultivated public grounds
—not only as being ornamental, but also of
real utility.
	One of the stormy days, we visited the
great German Parliament, where we saw
Count Bismark and General Moltke, of
Franco-Prussian war celebrity, both mem-
bers of Parliament, and have seats near each
other. We also saw Dr. Schleiden whom
we met in New York. The Parliament
House is not so large as the one occupied by
the French Assembly in Versailles, but
showed a fuller attendance than when we
visited the latter. The gallery was crowded
with spectators, both gentlemen and ladies,
the latter, by the expression of countenance,
manifesting as deep feeling of interest as
the more lordly portion.  We listened in-
tently to two earnest speeches, but not
comprehending the dialect, could not decide
on their merits. 
	I much admire the appearance of the
Prussian ladies. Generally speaking, they
exhibit the most womanly good sense in
their style of dress of any nationality I have
seen for several years past. In spite of the
prohibition against judging from appear-
ances, the exterior, unavoidably makes an
impression with regard to the interior; and
inasmuch as dress is acknowledged to be a
legitimate index to the mind, I feel author-
ized to pronounce in favor of these German
ladies—that they are truly worthy of being
the mothers, wives, and daughters of the
staunch, athletic looking soldiers of the
Prussian-German Empire, whom I saw every
day in full uniform marching past my hotel,
by thousands. These ladies dress with
taste, and dress well, but with less disfigur-
ing than fashionables do elsewhere, and in
appearance are genteel, dignified and grace-
ful. I have, here, seen scores of plain dress
skirts worn by ladies apparently of the first
class in society. Good sense is also com-
bined with taste in the fashion of the ladies’
riding suit. The skirt is what Webster
would have called “a sort of betweenity,”
in length, between the short, and the very
long now worn in America, which is in danger
from the horses’ feet. The riding hat is the
same as the gentlemen wear—crown of
medium height between the stovepipe and
the flat, which gives them a stately appear-
ance. But enough about dress. 
	On the 15th we left Hotel Royal, and by
train arrived in Hamburg the same evening.
This is an independent city, the great com-
mercial centre of Germany. Its harbor
contains an immense amount of shipping,
and its railroad trains seem to move in
almost every direction—all is stir and
bustle. Hamburg is certainly a live city,
and some portions of it very beautiful.
	It was late in the evening when we
arrived, but this morning, when I looked
out from one of my windows which com-
mands a good view of several much fre-
quented walks, I was struck with the
uncommon size of the people—they seemed
so very large—both men and women, young
and old. After noticing them at different
times, I remarked that I never saw so
uniformly large people, and that I would
like to see the Hamburg soldiery. This
forenoon we took a ride through the city
and my wish was gratified. Hamburg has
but two thousand; and in passing the parade
ground, a spacious square, we probably saw
all of them on drill, which satisfied my
curiosity. We thought those in Berlin,
much larger than those we saw in France,
and more particularly than those we saw in
Italy; but these Hamburgs are  certainly
more of the Goliath stamp,—the tallest
and stoutest military I ever saw. Their
costume is of Prussian style. 
	I have continued to notice the size of the
people in all parts of the city, where we have
been, and the same characteristic prevails.
I made mention of it to a lady of much
travel and observation—her opinion is the
same; but why this distinction, she failed to
comprehend. We saw no reason why this
city should promote an extra, in the growth
of humans. 
	The continent of Europe is a land of
soldiers. we have seen so many, that we
have become accustomed to the sight; but,
the reflection that the nations are training
for war, awakens at all times, a painful sen-
sation. While the Latter-day Saints are
laboring to establish a kingdom of peace,
the sword is the watchword among the
nations of the earth. 
	This evening we take steamer for London.
President Smith, having received through
the Conference Minutes, official information
of his appointment as Trustee-in-trust, and
feeling anxious to fulfil any obligation, has
relinquished his projected tour to Russia,
which will facilitate our return. On the route,
after crossing the Atlantic, my brother and
I anticipate spending a few days with our
relations. On the 25th is the London Con-
ference, after which, we shall sail as soon as
practicable.
							Eliza R. Snow.


