SPLINTERS.
			       —
  Whitelaw Reid denies his intention to
marry Anna Dickinson......The editress of
“Hearth and Home,” Mrs. Mary Dodge, is
going abroad for her health......Kate Stan-
ton is lecturing on the “Loves of Great
Men.”......The minister of the interior of
France and the minister of public instruc-
tion have tendered their resignations be-
cause they cannot serve in the same cabinet.
......A young man in New York lately killed
three bears with a nail hatchet......Japan
shows a growing interest in the use of the
English language, sixty copies of Webster’s
Unabridged dictionary were lately shipped
for Yokahoma......Professor Agassiz com-
pleted his sixty-sixth year on the 28th of
May. he has been in America 27 years.
......It is haying time now in Berryessa
valley......St. Albans, Vermont, has had a
$150,000 fire......A terrible fire in Drum-
mond colliery, near Picton, Nova Scotia,
was lately occasioned by an explosion of gas.
......The total vote of Spain at the last
election was for a constituent Cortes
and numbered 1,250,000......On the same
day recently one murderer was hung at Mt.
Carroll, Illinois, and another in New York.
......Three thousand Bibles are claimed to
be daily distributed by the American Bible
Society......There are 8,403 places in New
York City where liquor is sold......The Pit
River Indians are trying to bring about a
war with the white settlers there, though
their regular chief is for peace......Boss
Tweed, it is reported, pleads “not guilty”
on fifteen indictments for fraud......Vien-
nese Commissioner, General Van Buren,
who has been accused of fraudulency writes
to President Grant exculpating himself and
reprobating Minister Jay......The sister of
the last named minister was lately married.
......The New York “Herald” pays Kate
Field $2,000 yearly for writing......The seal
of condemnation has been set on dueling in
Richmond, Va., by a coroner’s jury......
Great failures are announced in Vienna and
a money panic prevails there to a large
extent......A much admired statue of the
Ex-Queen of Naples has been finished by
Miss Hosmer......Atchison, Kansas, is re-
ported to be weeping over the strength of
its new onions......Cincinnati sold and drank
35,000 barrels of beer during the month of
April......Mrs. Arthur Arnold, wife of the
editor of the London “Echo,” is translating
Senor Castelar’s work on Rome into English.
Emigrants in large numbers are moving
from Iowa to Kansas......Italy has seven-
teen universities attended by 4,204 students.
......One million dollars for school purposes
has been appropriated by the Illinois Legis-
lature......Yale College as a petrified Indian,
discovered and dug up last Summer on the
bluffs of the North Platt......one hundred
thousand valuable specimens in mineralogy,
botany and natural history, have been col-
lected by Professor Agassiz, and party......
Tea is proposed as a substitute for brandy
in the Russian army they will, doubtless,
learn in time that pure water, undefiled
by either is the most wholesome beverage.
......Mules are exempted by the Georgia
Society for the prevention of cruelty to
animals....One of the earliest and best
woman preachers, Olympia Brown, was
lately married at Providence. R. I.......
From all parts of the country come good
reports of the appearance of the wheat crops
this season......A man in Minnesota was
found dead with his head in a kettle of
water the other morning......A writer from
San Diego says positively the people there
live on climate; it would be a nice thing to
have such a climate broadly extended......
[new column]
“Good Gracious” is the latest novel name
for a heroine......Sumner County, Kansas,
will plant one thousand acres of cotton this
year......Philadelphia ladies are petitioning
for female inspectors of woman prisoners......
The 6th ult. was the 24th anniversary of
the first combined effort made to establish
woman’s rights equal with those of man, in
this country......The expense of the Euro-
pean tour of the Shah of Persia is estimated
at L5,000,000......The daughter of Ben Hol-
laday, Countess Pourtales, while on her way
from San Francisco, died in a Pullman car
on the 16th ult......Dental surgery has been
successfully adopted as a profession by
women in New York......Three wives of the
Shah of Persia travel with him......The 16th
of May this year, was celebrated by the
colored people of New York as the anniver-
sary of the passage of the Civil Rights bill.
A Pennsylvania hen has hatched a chicken
with four legs and four wings, but only one
head......Elizabeth Cady Stanton wants
women to let their children go without bibs,
their husband’s shirts without buttons and
their homes without care, until the men
“give in and let the women vote.”......The
Pennsylvania Legislature prohibits the sale
of oysters during the Summer months......
An educational periodical says there is a
greater and better amount of rational teach-
ing done by the female teachers in Boston
primary schools than by the professors of
Harvard College


