CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

				Constantinople, Turkey, 
						April 8th, 1878. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	The city of Damascus has a venerable
appearance—it is very shabbily built, and
whatever taste may be internally displayed,
its private buildings exhibit none on their
exterior. We visited what had the reputa-
tion of being the best apartments in the
place—just fitted up for the reception of the
German Prince, whose arrival was hourly
expected. The reception room was a cush-
ioned siesta, open in front and facing a
square, or open court in which was a large
fountain. From this we were conducted
into a large, square room, which, strange to
[-]ay, was well lighted with glass; the front
part was floored with varigated marble, on
which stood a white marble fountain basin,
four feet in diameter, into which the water
was gently flowing—the back part of the
room was raised some six inches above the
front, carpeted, and amply supplied with
lounges, sofas, etc., all in a veritable Eastern
style, and exceedingly neat. This same
young Prince of Weimar, and suite, have
been several times on board steamers with
us—we saw them in Jaffa and Jerusalem,
where, as well as in Damascus, they were
received with a display of public honors.
	On the morning of March 19th, we left the
old city of Scriptural celebrity—the scene
of many former striking incidents; particu-
larly that of the miraculous conversion of
Paul, and having walked on the "Street
called Straight;" (which judging from the
gate leading into it, was much broader
formerly than now,)—with its one hundred
and fifty thousand inhabitants, without
shedding any tears of regret. Now, instead
instead of narrow trails, we travel on the
broad, smooth “Diligence road,” through a
narrow gorge between high rocky ridges,
overlooking narrow strips of fertility along
the beautiful Abano river, which skirts the
almost perpendicular bluffs for several miles,
and at night, camp at a village of hovel-
like dwellings, called Dimas. The next
morning, while waiting the adjustment of
tents, baggage, etc. on the pack mules, we
were much interested in seeing the numer-
ous goat-herds with their large flocks of 
[next column]
goats, starting out towards the mountains
which surrounded us on all sides; and, par-
ticularly to our amusement, numbers of
these goats issued from the doors of the
houses, to which there was but one opening.
As the goats came through the doorway,
they were intermingled with men, women
and children. Our encampment was on a
ridge of the Anti Lebanon range.
	The next day we traveled over an exten-
sive valley lying between the two ranges,
which as we approached the great range was
highly cultivated, and crowned with luxuri-
ant fields of grain; with houses representing
civilization if not refinement. Leaving this
delightful landscape scenery we ascended
a steep ridge, where we camped for the
night, in sight of lofty peaks of the cele-
brated "Mountain of Lebanon," covered
with snow; and felt the atmosphere cooled
by its frosty breath. The next morning,
as we ascended the highest elevation, we
found the cold intense—banks of snow, from
time to time, lying on the road side, much
to the annoyance of our animals—they
seemed to be making its acquaintance for
the first time.
	At several points on this Lebanon range,
the view is beautiful beyond description—
not only beautiful—it is grand and magnifi-
cent, combining a portion of sublimity, that,
while you are struck with admiration, a
feeling of awe instinctively entwines around
your imagination. I was so captivated with
the wild, bold, majestic scenery of nature,
exhibited in an interminable variety of
forms, before, behind, all around me, that
many times I stopped my horse, that I
might feast my eyes on the surrounding
beauties of nature—the almost uncultivated
“Glory of Lebanon.” Some of the mountain
slopes presented an appearance of having
been terraced long ago, and in many places
the vine is seen in rows, apparently strug-
gling against the wash of storm and the
waste of years.
	The place where, for the last time we
dismounted for lunch, I shall not readily
forget. It was on a high elevation over-
looking a cluster of ridges, which rise in
proud loftiness, over deep ravines, that,
viewed from our standpoint, produced a
sense of giddiness, from their immense
depth. Although the sides of their emi-
nences are very steep, they are terraced,
and from base to summit, highly cultivated,
and covered with many varieties of vegeta-
tion; and exhibit in a striking illustration,
the effect of the skilful power of Art, in
softening, and in transforming the rough
and wild condition of Nature. To complete
this strange, picturesque scene, the broad,
smooth road, paved with white limestone,
commences a descent directly from our lunch-
ing place, and, instead of crossing the
ravines, and running in a straight line, it
winds and zigzags around, low down at the
foot of these eminences—its whitness form-
ing a marked contrast to the green verdure
of vegetation—the luxurient foliage of
shrubbery and shade trees, and the gay
colors of the flowers, already in full bloom.
	After leaving this point, which is about
ten miles from Beyrout, the road runs in
a straight direction, and, for a long distance,
is lined on both sides with fields of mulberry.
These trees have an old appearance—
the trunks being very large, and the
branches young and small from constant
pruning. The manufacture of silk is quite
a business in Beyrout, this place having
superseded Damascus, when formerly it was
carried on extensively.
	Before our arrival in Beyrout, our Drago-
man, having special business in the city,
left us in charge of a Turk who could not
[next column]
speak English, and understood it but little;
and as we preceded our pack mules with
tents, etc., he took us to a house where we
were received with tokens of kindness—
everything was done that hospitality need
suggest—we were seated in the best room
on cushioned seats—were served to tiny
cups of coffee—glasses of lemonade, etc.—
shown into their weaving establishment
with many specimens of silk manufacture—
all this time without understanding what
prompted these expressions of friendship,
for we could not comprehend a word of each
other’s language. After some time Antonio,
our Dragoman came and relieved our
curiosity, by informing us that the people of
the house were relatives of the man who
introduced us to them. Presently our tents
were pitched and we left the hospitable roof,
and invited the lady of the house with two
or three others to accompany us, which they
did. The distance was short, but others
seeing these, joined in, and then others
joined them, and by the time our tents were
reached, we had a large procession. At
this time there was a public demonstration
in favor of the young German Prince, just
entering the city, but we concluded that
ourselves drew the most attention. The
next forenoon we were visited by multitudes;
some of the ladies urging Miss Little and
myself, we accompanied them to their
homes which we found, though simple in
style, very neat.
	In the afternoon—the 22nd of March, we
mounted horses for the last time—bade adieu
to tent life, and rode to the hotel, and on
the 25th went on board the steamer Mars,
of the Austrian Lloyd line, en route for
Constantinople.
							Eliza R. Snow.

			Munich, Bavaria, April 24, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	Constantinople, with its many waters
and varigated land scenery—combining
beauty and commercial advantages, sur-
passes all other locations I have ever
seen. From an outside view, as we
beheld it from the steamer's upper deck,
before, and at sunrise, one cloudless morn-
ing, when the atmosphere was clear of
smoke, this great Capital of Turkey is mag-
nificently beautiful. But, like most Eastern
cities, in consequence of narrow, crooked,
filthy streets, it will not bear an intimate
acquaintance. It contains many fine edi-
fices, of which its many minaretted mosques,
are considered its greatest ornament; and
to a Saint of God, who understands that He
accepts no church, mosque or temple, unless
built by His special direction, these are of
little or no interest, only, as a matter of
curiosity. The tall, graceful, dark-green
cyprus trees, of which there are great num-
bers, especially in the burial grounds of
Constantinople, add much to the picturesque
scenery, and are higly valued as being pro-
ductive of health, by absorbing malarious
effluvia from the atmosphere.
	I was interested, and much amused with
the novelty of the bazars—so very unlik
anything I had seen. In the first place,
you enter a narrow street or defile, with
rows of small shops with open fronts, ranged
along on each side, with articles for sale on
shelves at the back and sides, and strung up
in front—a vendor standing in the center,
ready to wait on you. After going a short
distance, other alleys or lanes lead off in
various directions—then others branch out
from them, and so on, till without a pilot,
you may be entirely lost in a forest of bazars,
and your sight bewildered with their daz-
zling displays.


﻿The exterior of the Grand Sultan’s Palace
is a rare specimen of taste, chaste beauty
and elegance.
	On the 5th of April, again on the upper
deck of the steamer Mars, I took a farewell
view of the Turkish Capital, while its hills
and dells, minarets, domes, towers and masts
faded in the distance, as well as that im-
mense structure on the coast of Asia Minor,
celebrated as the place where Florence
Nightingale bestowed her womanly and
heroic aid in behalf of the sick, wounded and
dying.
	Near the shore of the beautiful Island of
Syra, we changed steamers, and on the
morning of the 7th, landed at the Piraeus—
took carriage—rode five miles, which brought
us to the city of Athens. I am not an
enthusiastic admirer of ruins, and time-
worn relics of what is dead and obsolete,
especially when they have no possible bear-
ing on present progress, yet, in spite of my
positive predilections, my attention was
strongly riveted to some of the stupendous
remains of the ancient splendor and mag-
nificence of a city that figured so much in
the classics, and political history of Greece.
	But, as I am not a professional archoeolo-
gist, I shall leave the description to others.
While visiting the Acropolis, on the lofty
height of the plateau, a natural enormous
rock foundation of the original Athens, we
had a charming view of the present.
	Anciently, the Areophagus or “Mar’s
Hill,” was a judgment seat, where the most
important civil and ecclesiastic cases were
tried and sentences pronounced. On this
hill the Apostle Paul stood and addressed
the people. I almost fancied him occupy-
ing that strikingly peculiar position—in
close proximity to, and almost surrounded
by temples of the greatest possible brilliancy,
dedicated to, and containing vast numbers
of those venerated deities, the very gods
which he repudiated in the audience of
their worshipers; boldly telling his idola-
trous hearers that “God dwelleth not in
temples made with hands”—“we ought not
to think that the Godhead is like unto gold,
or silver, or stone, graven by art and man’s
device,” etc.
	We were invited to tea at the residence of
the American Minister, Mr. Francis and
lady, where also we met Mr. Goodenough,
American Consul General to Constantinople,
and spent a couple of hours very sociably and
agreeably. We saw George First, King of
Greece, on the sidewalk, in plain citizen
costume—were told that he is doing all in
his power to better the condition of the
people. His wife, Olga, is niece of the
Czar, Alexander II, of Russia, thus uniting
Danish and Russian element.
	We left Athens on the 12th—arrived by
train at Trieste, Austria, the 17th; at Verona,
Italy, the 19th, and on the 21st at Munich,
Bavaria.
	Of all sight-seeing and entertainments,
nothing has pleased us more, and interested
us so much as the packages of letters and
papers which we met at Constantinople and
Trieste, from Utah, informing us of “home,
sweet home.”
							Eliza R. Snow.


