EDITORIAL NOTES.
			      —
	Texas, also, has been shaken up with an
earthquake.
	The best band for a woman’s  “head’.’—
A reliable hus-band.
	It is held that General Grant is working
fora third term in the White House.  And
if successful, then?
	Pere Hyacinthe has become a father
according to the flesh, Madame Loyson, his
wife having presented him with a son.
And now he preaches against celibacy.
	It is proposed to establish a training
school for nurses in the Connecticut State
hospital, at New Haven and a proposition
so sensible and so novel should succeed.
	It is a penal offense to sell newspapers in
Hamilton, Ohio, on Sunday; but slanderous
gossip is allowed to circulate freely without
punishment. Hamilton is religious—in its
way. 
	The belief that, had Cain been tried be-
fore a modern jury for killing Abel he
would have been acquitted on the ground
of  "emotional insanity,” is fading before
the late executions for murder in different
parts of the United States.
	The Hot Creek band of Modoc Indians
have surrendered, with more “squaws and
papooses” than usually foil to the share of
the same number of male Indians. And
the knowing ones think that Captain Jack
hasonly relieved himselfof non-combatants
to carry on the “war” with increased vigor.
	Dubuque, Iowa, has a couple of girls in
jail for stealing shade trees. The crime is a
peculiar one, and the question arises how
for their love of the beautiful was responsi-
ble for the act? And what a curious
combination of peculiarities might not be
discovered in persons presenting such
diverse characteristics?
	Female emancipation makes wonderful
strides in the republic of Switzerland. At
the last term of Zurich University 110 lady
students were entered and this term 119
are already reported entered with the lists
not closed. The assignment of professional
chairs to women is only considered a matter
of time. And the end is, not yet.  
	The question of George Francis Train’s
sanity or insanity still occupies the attention
of New York judges,and the “next Presi-
dent of America” is confined to a “bastile”
and made to suffer the same penality as if
he was proved guilty of some crime.  It is
surmised that it Train was less wealthy his
sanity would not long trouble the courts.
	“Taxation without representation”
was one great cry in the colonies before the
War of Independence overthrew the British
power. Now the Territories and the
women are taxed without representation.
And the tax-paying women of Rochester,
New York, are organizing and agitating to
discover, if possible, why they should be
subjected to an injustice which the revolu-
tionary fathers preferred to risk life for rather
'than submit to. All success, then, to the
women of Rochester and their example
should be emulated by every tax-paying
woman in the country; and by all the citi-
zens of the Territories, men and women.
[new column]
 “Woman’s Right to work," is a subject
treated upon in a woman’s paper of late
date. Most women have ample opportuni-
ties of gaining practical proof of their
unmitigated right to work, and the neces-
sity of their making full use of that preroga-
tive. The great trouble is with the majority,
they work too much, and think, reason,
contrive and rest too little.
  James Harrison and his daughter, resid-
ing near Walla Walla, Washington Territory,
recently defended themselves against five
Indians, until assistance arrived and cap-
tured three of the Indians. And the world
is united to eulogize them, while the
name of the daughter, who had the courage
and nerve to knock down one of the Indians
with an axe, isn’t even given to the public.
By one man wilfully using powder in the
part of a coal pit where he worked, in Nova
Scotia, about two weeks ago, an explosion of
the gasses in the mine occurred, setting fire
to it and resulting in a horrible death to
fifty-nine men, leaving thirty widows and
ninety-two fatherless children. And such
terrible disasters the result of wilful obsti-
nacy and recklessness, are called “acci-
dents!” 
The ambitious Khedive Of Egypt is
visiting his master, the Sultan of Turkey,
whom he hopes yet to disregard and defy
while the Sultan, who fears and is jealous
of his powerful satrap, receives him with
open arms. All the world is supposed to
know the feelings that exist between them
and all the world may admire in them the
hypocrisy which crowned heads deem a
part of their political education.
The trial of Susan B. Anthony and
fourteen other women, who cast their votes
last Presidential election, and of the inspec-
tor of election who received the votes, is
set for June, to be tried before the Circuit
Court, at Canandaigua, New York. And
the United States, which has raised the late
slaves to the dignity of political sovereignty,
proposes to punish, as criminals, a few of
the most intelligent women in the country
for exercising the right of political citizen-
ship.
A Young woman in one of the govern-
ment departments in Washington was
detected “in conduct unbecoming an offi-
cer,” and was dismissed. In other words
she had been seduced, and her sin was found
out. But her seducer was, apparently, not
guilty of “conduct unbecoming an officer,”
as he was not dismissed. He remains in
his position, receives the public money,
enters society, can be guilty frequently of
immorality, may boast of it, nay may drag
other victims down to shame, and yet
nothing of all this is “conduct unbecoming
an officer”—in him. And why is this so?
And wherefore should he, because he is a
man, be free to enact, unharmed, his wick-
edness and immorality? Why should he be
supported with government money in his
crimes, and have an impunity to sin
more than the woman who has fallen
victim to his arts, in the immediate employ-
ment of the “best government under the
sun?” Here is work for the reformers in high
places, if they are honest and serious; here
is a chance to show that it is not sex, nor
[new column]
ondition, but purity and worth that shouId
eceive pay, for this matter is no secret, and
it has called forth numerous strictures in
Washington society. But still the “young
man” remains a public servant; and the
“young woman” becomes a castaway!
  Among the signs of the times we note a
fearful tornado that swept over Washington
County, Iowa, on the 23rd ult., perhaps the
most terrible ever reported on the continent.
The roaring of the tornado is reported to
have been appalling six miles from its track,
and was heard fully ten miles away.
The following is taken from the descrip-
tion of it, as reported at the time by tele-
graph: “The tornado was about a half a mile
in width and tore into fragments every-
thing that came in its course. Houses,
barns, fences, trees, cattle and human beings
were caught up and whirled through the
air like mere toys and then dashed to the
ground with such violence as to produce
instant death. Houses and barns were torn
in fragments and scattered for miles around.
The fields are dotted with large timbers
driven into the ground at an angle of ninety
degrees, and cattle were actually driven
head foremost into the ground. One can
scarce conceive of the devastation or realize
the force of the tornado. Already we have
heard of thirteen farm houses and many
barns that were literally torn to pieces and
many others that were badly damaged. A
school house, six miles north of here was
torn to pieces and a fourteen-year old
daughter of Henry Rathnel was carried
about a quarter of a mile from the school
house and dashed to the ground and crushed
to a jelly. Miss Smith, the teacher, and
six or eight scholars were hurt, some badly.
Mrs. Henry Watters was killed. Miss
Gardner and a son of Alexander Gibson Ho
at the point of death from their injuries.
A gentleman who was near the tornado
when it passed, reports that it was balloon-
shaped with the small end to the ground and
moved at the rate of about twenty miles an
hour. It commenced its fearful work near
Keoka, where it demolished several resi-
dences. We next hear of it about six miles
northeast, where it destroyed two or three
houses, and as it passed on northeast it
scattered to the four winds the fine resi-
dences and barns of Alex. Gibson, J. A.
Babcock, and J. C. Culingbone. It also
leveled to the ground the dwellings of D.
Caucorf and H. Walters. Mr. Carringer and
Mr. Kerr and many persons lives were
saved by hastily getting into their cellars:
Sad havoc was made with all kinds of stock.
An eye witness says he could she large
pieces of timber hurled from the cloud as
though shot from a cannon. Hail felt that
measured nine inches In diameter. Some
were brought to this city and four hours
after they were picked up,- they were still
as large as hen’s eggs. A telegram from
Keoka last evening says five persons were
killed about three miles from that place
and one child was torn to pieces.” This is
the warning of storm and tempest, which
has been promised to succeed the solemn
testimony of God’s judgments at hand in
these latter days; but the people pay little
more heed to the terrible character, of. the
one, than they did to the gentle and heavenly
natfire of the other.


