HINTS ON HOME LIFE.
	
	It is never wise to make any sudden change
in modes of living. If one extreme has been
followed, in correcting the mistakes modera-
tion should be studied, and great care be taken
to avoid the very frequent error straightway
adopting the opposite extreme, which, in many
cases, may prove to be as bad, or worse than
the former. For instance, if a person has fol-
lowed the practice of bathing in warm or tepid
water, and no oftener than once a week, it
would not be wisdom to begin at once taking
daily baths in cold water, although it is now
generally conceded that the latter form of
bathing is a most healthy one.
	Homes where love and cheerfulness abound,
are the homes of industry and frugality. There
may be a seeming ecstacy in luxury accom-
panied with leisure and indolence; but the true
joys of home-life exist in the care and pains
taken by all the members of a family, and the
labors performed by each, in the creation of
sunshine and happiness.
	It should not be considered burdensome and
trying to perform any domestic duty, or make
any sacrifice which reason demands, to promote
the welfare and satisfaction of any or all por-
tions of the household. Children are very apt
to dislike work, and to complain of the tasks
required of them, even though they are light
and trifling. This is not because employment
of head and hands does not accord with the
laws of nature. Infants prove by their ever
busy, restless movements in their wakeful
moments, that action is an essential of ani-
mated being; and needs only to be properly
governed and trained that it may move in the
channel of usefulness. Parents often give their
children incorrect ideas concerning the use of
this all important power without intending to
do so. While verbally seeking to instill into
the youthful mind the divine principle
that "there is no excellence without labor,"
they so far forget themselves as to utter com-
plaints in the presence of their children, of
their own hard fare; and by whining over the
arduous labors they have to perform, the exer-
tions they are obliged to make, and the weari-
some life assigned them, they lead the little
people to think that work is merely a drag
which should be kept off if possible.
	If a mother gives vent to cheerless and disturbed
feelings about her duties, the work which she
feels unable to do, instead of doing what she
can with pleasure and fortitude, making fore-
thought and prudence do their great part in
assisting, being never idle, yet uncomplaining
over what she cannot accomplish, her little
daughters will grow to believe that the portion
of work allotted to them is too much, and that
they are justified in finding fault. Thus the
whole household gets into confusion, and lack


of system renders domestic duties tedious and
troublesome. But the opposite course being
taken by the mother—the superintendent and
manager of the whole—will ensure general
satisfaction and pleasure in all the rounds of
domestic life. Let parents show that they de-
light, as they should do, in the necessary duties
which they perform and the same spirit will be
diffused through the whole family circle and
life’s labors will be accomplished in blissful
harmony, while peace and prosperity and joy
will be gathered as the golden grain and deli-
cious fruits.


