HOME AFFAIRS.
				 —
 Two more of those interesting letters from
Miss Eliza R. Snow will be found in the
present number of the EXPONENT.
    THE PALESTINE Party entirely missed the
late Winter of ’72-3, their continuous route
bringing them to each point which they visited
just as merry Spring approached.  Mr. Little
says he has no recollection of having seen a
particle of ice since the close of the previous
Winter.
   FOURTEEN DAYS of almost constant rain is
something so remarkable in the history of
Utah, since its settlement, that it is question-
able if any previous year has witnessed it.
Yet that is something like what we have had
during the month of May, in the present year;
and it has been a climatic phenomenon worth
remembering.
   THE LATEST news received from those of the
Palestine party now in Europe was in a short
telegram which appeared in the daily papers
last week, stating that President George A.
Smith had been present at a conference of the
Saints held in London, on the Sunday pre-
vious, May 25th.  Elder F. Little and Miss
Claire Little, of the party, returned home since
the last number of the EXPONENT was issued
arriving on the 21st ult. in good health, and
accompanied from Europe by Mrs. Little who
had crossed the Atlantic to meet them.
    TO-DAY, the seventy-third birthday of Presi-
dent Brigham Young, finds that honored
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, still active and energetic in
the cause of Truth, for which he has labored so
exclusively for more than forty years.  For
one of his age, his health is very excellent; he is
still able to speak in his natural, clear and
impressive voice to the entire satisfaction of
large congregations; and he still, continually
and most deservedly, enjoys the sincere faith
and confidence of the people to whom he has
long since fully proven himself a trust-worthy
friend, servant and counselor.
   REPORTS FROM Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Secre-
tary of the Relief Society of Ogden, shows that
the young ladies of that city have been organ-
ized into an association, and hold meetings
Semi-monthly, for the purpose of assisting the
Relief Society in its charitable labors, and also
to gain wisdom from instructions pertaining to
the Gospel of Christ and all useful branches of
practical education.  Seventy members have
already been admitted to this Society of young
ladies. We wish them all success, and grate-
fully acknowledge a special and very cordial
invitation from them to attend their next
meeting, to be held in the new city hall,
Ogden, on Thursday, 5th inst., at 4 o’clock in
the afternoon.


A NOVEL by the Princess Mathilde Bona-
parte, entitled "La Dame a la Rubine," will
shortly be published. This novel, it is said,
was laid before M. Prosper Merimee, some
time before his decease, and was corrected
by him.


