TRUE LOVE.

	Never be ashamed of ever having loved any
one. If perchance you have hated, then blush
for it, but not for love. It does not matter
at all whether the person on whom your
affections fixed themselves reciprocated the
sentiment. Where there is no shame in
loving, in itself, the fact of having given
love without reward can bring none with it.
You have only bestowed a gift more price-
less than any jewel can be, upon one who
did not thank you.
	Since there is sorrow to one’s self in it,
it is best to struggle with the heart, and
keep it until it is asked for; but if it goes
forth, despite all effort, there is no need to
feel like a guilty thing, and Iong to hide
from your very self. Providence gave you
that great love, and I believe that somehow
it will mingle with the life it hovers over,
and shed a perfume and lend a sweetness to
it, though it has never been spoken.
	Many a woman's life has shrivelled away
under the weight of "disappointed love,"
merely becaue her shame in it was so  great.
The false sentiment that teaches her to
scorn a natural feeling has worn her beauty
away, and robbed her of all hope in the
presence of the future. I think it would be
better if even a woman dared to say, "I
loved him but he did not love me,” with
the same sweet sadness which, when years
have glided by, she can utter the words, “I
loved him, and he died.”


﻿Miss Van Lew, the postmistress at Rich-
mond, has again run the gauntlet of criticism,
and been confirmed by the Senate. There
was a strong effort on the part of the politi-
cians, who coveted so good a place for them-
selves, to prevent her appointment and
afterward to defeat her in the Senate, but
the President insisted on appointing her on
two grounds, that she gave important
information to our army during the siege of
Richmond, and that she made a good officer.
	Clara Louise Kellogg did a generous
thing at the Continental Hotel in Philadel-
phia, the other night. Having a spare hour,
she invited the hired help about the house,
who could be spared from their duties, to
assemble in the ladies’ dining-room, and
she then played and sang for them a choice
selection of her best pieces, interspersing a
number of Irish ballads and negro minstrel
melodies. The servants enjoyed it, all over,
and Miss Kellogg is sure of good attendance
in her future visits at the Continental.
	Asiatic men verily believe that chaos
would come if women were allowed to go
abroad with uncovered faces; but the ex-
periment has long been tried in Europe and
America without producing any alarming
results. It was thought in old times that
public speaking would be fatal to the useful-
ness and modesty of women, but the
Quakers long ago settled that question.
Their women have always been as free to
preach as their men, and  are pre-eminent
for their personal modesty and household
thrift.


