WHAT NOT.
			       ——
    THE figure 9 is said to be like a pea-
cock, because it is  0 without its tail.
    A TALL and beautiful lady is described as
"lengthened sweetness long drawn out."
    WHEN a girl falls in love with an unlucky
Irishman, her heart always goes pity-Pat.
    THE gentleman who lately took the fresh
air in the Central Park is requested to re-
store it.
    THE highest office within the gift of the
people is the weather signal station on
Pike's Peak.
    "I'm going to draw this beau into a
knot," as the lady said when standing at
the Hymeneal altar.
    A TOURIST who was asked in what part
of Switzerland he felt the heat most, replied
"When I was going to Berne."
    NEXT to a new bonnet, a black moustache
has been known to do the most violence to
harmony among young ladies.
    IT is said that the finest High School
building in the United States is at Omaha,
Nebraska. Cost, $250,000.
    A SUCCESSFUL female barber in Phila-
delphia shows what woman may do to
"razor" self to independence.
    ONE Missouri editor says of another that
"his ears would do for awnings for a ten-
story wholesale hog-packing establishment."
    A YALE College student said he had
"rather be boss pancake baker in Vassar
College, than to have Professor Tyndall's
head on his shoulders."
    THE saloon-keepers of Big Rapids re-
solved to close their saloons and kill their
town if the council cidn't reduce their
license from $500 to $300. The council
didn't.
    COMPOSITORS often put in queer things
"to fill out a column." Here is the latest:
"Does not a young mother's heart leap 4th
with joy when she beholds her darling
babe's 1st 2th.
    "You had better ask for manners than
money," said a finely dressed gentleman to
a beggar who asked for alms. "I asked
you for what I thought you had the most
of," was the reply.
    A 'FRISCO man runs a partnership busi-
ness alone, being both pound-master and
sausage dealer. He killed 221 dogs in
April, and  people wonder why they got
their best links so late in the spring.
    WHITELAW Reid, editor of the New
York Tribune, gets a salary of $10,000 per
year. Jennings has $10,000 on the Times;
Croly has $5,000 on the World; Hudson had
$20,000 on the Herald, and was retired on
a pension of $10,000.
    AN unimaginative individual on visiting
the Falls of Niagara was greatly perplexed
at the astonishment expressed by his com-
panions, and one of them exclaiming to him,
"Is it not a most wonderful fall?" replied,
"Wonderful! no; I see nothing wonderful
in it. Why, what's to hinder the water
from falling?"
    A SCHOOL-boy being requested to write a
composition upon the subject of "Pins,"
produced the following: "Pins are very
useful. They have saved the lives of a
great many women and children—in fact,
whole families." "How so?" asked the
puzzled teacher; and the boy replied, "Why,
by not swallowing them." This matches
the story of the other boy who defined salt
as "the stuff that makes potatoes taste bad
when you don't put on any."


