SPLINTERS.

	Chicago lately had three suicides in one
week......Until a successor is appointed,
associate Justice Clifford acts in place of
Chief Justice Chase......Six murders were
committed in San Francisco during the last
month......Lizzie Adrian of Auburn, was
thrown from a buggy at the pic-nic on
Decoration Day, and badly if not fatally
injured; if death were the result, her’s
would be another grave to decorate......New
York is going to have a new and splendid
theatre, to be opened on the 1st of October.
......The 2nd and 3rd of this month were
observed as a bank holiday in London, and
as holidays in the Liverpool cotton market.
......It is proposed by the French Government
to abandon the commercial treaty with
England......The Japanese are said to eat
every kind of ocean or river creature they
can get......Some parts of New England are
sadly troubled with Gipsies.......Cuba is
threatened with the small-pox becoming
epidemic.....Among the latest inventions
is a cannon to be exploded by nitro-glycer-
ine......Nashville has a life insurance com-
pany for colored people only......The grass-
hopper plague is now in Texas......Winter
wheat in some portions of Illinois is said to
promise unequaled crops......The historic
portion of Boston is left without a church
edifice.......Ben Butler is reported trying for
next governor, of Massachusetts......A natur-
alization treaty has been concluded between
the United States and Denmark......Senator
Sumner has divorced his wife......Since the
opening of the Exposition, hotel rates in
Vienna have nearly doubled.......One man,
William B. Aster, is said to be the owner of
3,000 houses in New York......Snow fell in
the north part of England on the 19th ult.
.......The great Chicago Jubilee was a failure.
........Governor Dix of New York will not
prohibit the sale of wine and beer lest it
increase the use of stronger drinks.......The
Carlists in-Spain shoot their prisoners........
Steel railing is to be used on portions of
Detroit and Milwaukee railroad......At Nor-
folk, Va., a colored boy carried off a cadet-
ship in a competitive examination.......The
Carlists are said to have negotiated a loan
with British capitalists, of 400,000,000 reals.
......The Rev. Mr. Hay, of Des Moines,
Iowa, has a wife who is a physician and a
daughter studying law........Georgia had
twenty murderers under sentence of death in
May.......Companies of Hartford lose $,990-
275 by the Boston fire......A New York man
has spent $70,000 for pictures in Rome,
this season......Esquimaux Joe says the
late Captain Hall came to his death by
poison.......Four thousand Chinese immi-
grants landed in San Francisco in May.......A
California church organ is worked by water
power........Between two and three hundred
teamsters struck for higher wages in St.
Louis the other day......A Congregational
Church Sunday School, in San Francisco,
lately celebrated its fourteenth anniversary.
Should not such birthdays be more generally
noticed....Over fifty mrriage certificates were
issued in Chicago in one day recently........
Chinese lepers are causing a stir in Sacra-
mento......Lady lecturers are on the increase
in New York; 17 are advertized for the com-
ing winter.......Olive Logan quits the lecture-
field in this country, and with her husband,
Wirt Sikes, retires to Europe for a few years.
......Grace Greenwood spends the summer in
her cottage at Colorado Springs, near Den-
ver... Whitclaw Reid is said to acknowledge
funds through him of $10,000, to the Greeley
statue fund......A Philadelphia man recently
killed his father-in-law by hitting him with
abrick which he clains to have thrown in
[new column]
self defence........A colored man in Baltimore
was the other day convicted of the murder
of his paramour.......The Rev. David Swing,
of Chicago, has been lecturing for the bene-
fit of the Home for Newsboys and Bootblacks.
......It is believed that Indian insurrection
is quieted, now that Captain Jack is in chains.
......Decrease of the negro population is
great in the South......California Pioneers
have an association and hold meetings......
A young rogue—not a “relative”—“doesn’t
like government ‘Grants’, ” and "hopes we
shan’t be pestered with any more of the
present kind.”  What should be done with
him?


