THE "WOMAN QUESTION."

	Perhaps no agitation looking, to the accom-
plishment of a great result ever progressed so
rapidly in the time, or at the same stage had
brighter prospects of success, than that which
seeks to secure for women the right to enjoy
and exercise the elective franchise, and the
right to earn her living by any means of in-
dustry open to man for which she has capacity.
In some of the States of this Republic—notably
Massachusetts—where high-sounding promises
had been made, the agitation has appeared to
be retrograding instead of advancing; yet while
this has been the case in one or two places, the
progress in other parts of the world has been
rapid and marked.  From Turkey comes in-
formation that a great innovation has been made
on venerable custom, and that even ladies of
higest rank are proposing to discard the great
vails which have been used for long centuries
to cover woman’s features, so that no man’s
gaze might rest upon them unless that of the
husband. This would be as much of a step in
advance there as for the women of the United
States to be placed in possession of the elective
franchise.  In England, where there is the ex-
ample of a woman for chief ruler of that mighty
power, the advance towards woman suffrage
has equalled, if not surpassed, the warmest
expectations of those engaged in the agitation.
A measure introduced in the House of Com-
mons, by Mr. Jacob Bright, to extend the
suffrage to women, was lately defeated, yet it
is only a few years ago since the proposition of
such a measure in the British Parliament
would have been sneered down, and been met
with nothing stronger than ridicule and con-
tempt. The fact that it can now be introduced
and calmly discussed shows an unexpected
change of sentiment that indicates success at a
not very remote day. And throughout Eng-
land, at vestry meetings and pa ochial elections,
the right of tax-paying women to speak and
vote is recognized. Switzerland is breaking
down the barriers which prohibited women
from obtaining education at her leading sem-
inaries.  While, under the protecting care of
the Crown Princess of Germany, Queen Vic-
toria’s daughter, woman’s advancement in
many ways is being widely encouraged and
forwarded. In the United States the agitation
has been seriously injured by the extreme
views urged by certain advocates of woman’s
rights views that, if widely entertained and
practised, would uproot society, bring social
chaos, and introduce another cycle of “dark
ages.” Every argument which aims at divid-
ing the interests of the sexes, is a blow to
human progress, weak or powerful as the case
may be.  And while woman should have and
enjoy every right which her Creator has de-
signed for her. She never can form nor have a
world of her own, where “horrid man” will
not be found. The “Woman Question” is the
question of both man and woman and “wo-
man’s rights” should as deeply interest men as
women. Woman is the mother of the world,
[new column]
and her interests can no more be separated from
those of man, than could the world exist with
only one sex. It is to be hoped that this fact
will have full weight in the future agitation of
the “Woman Question” and if it has, and the
extreme and revolutionary theories of a few
are discarded, it will be but a few years until
the desired political right, and every other
legitimate one associated with it, will be en-
joyed by women throughout the United States;
which should be in advance of Britain and
not behind it in such a matter of human pro-
gress.


