LETTER TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			——
    My Dear Sisters: Holy is the work to
which you are called, and blessed is she who
performs it nobly. Blessed be she who adds
even one drop of benevolence and good-will
to the crystal fountain. And blessed be she
whose heart fails not in the cause, and who
withholds not the little she can do, because
she cannot do great things. Think not, be-
cause your time and means are limited, you
can  do nothing to forward the work. If it
be really impossible (which can hardly be
the case,) for you to give either money or
handiwork,  you can, if you will, give a
steadfast faith, a warm enthusiasm, a
cheerful, kindly word, a generous appreci-
ation of and pride in what others accom-
plish and thus help to encourage and
stimulate those who can and will support
the cause.
    If you have no poor in your neighborhood,
(and pray God you have not,) there are hun-
dreds of other objects worthy to receive the
benefit of your labors. First of all is the
comforting of each other. For this purpose,
meet often together and speak to each other;
exchange your ideas; give yours and receive
others, thus blessing and being blessed. If you
should not absolutely learn anything new,
you may have your mind refreshed concern-
ing something old which you would not
like to forget; or some word you hear may
set in motion a train of new and profitable
reflections.
    Be not afraid of the sound of your own
voices; if your diffidence drive ideas from
your mind the first time you rise, promise
yourself you will have your nerves and
thoughts under better control another time,
and do not put that other time off too long.
If you think others are older and wiser than
you, so be it; but the one truth you may be
able to express is just as true as any one of
the ten another may set forth, and should
not be concealed because it is but one.
Love and uphold each other; strengthen
[new column]
each other's faith and remembrance; and
both by precept and example help to elevate
the moral standard of your community.
    Woman's mission is especially to the
young; and therein, (Oh, could she only
realize it!) she rules the world. The hopes
and aspirations of the women of this genera-
tion, become the constitutional disposition
of the next; so any measure, moral, religious,
political, social or domestic which is uni-
versally desired by mothers, their children
in after years will surely accomplish in spite
of opposition. Then let "us," at least, fix
our desires on those things which are holy
and elevating in their influence. Let us
not harbor any harmful or ignoble thoughts.
Bear with each other's failings and weak-
nesses; build up each other's reputation
and strengthen each other's hands. Let
not a whisper of jealousy enter your hearts
or pass your lips. If some one advances
more good suggestions than you can, envy
not her talents but diligently improve your
own. If one occupying a superior position
frowns down your suggestions, murmur
not; if she adopt them for her own, leaving
you unknown in the matter, let it rest be-
tween her and her conscience; and feel
cause for grateful pleasure in the fact that
the plan was a good one, no matter where
originated. If you do not receive  your
dues of appreciation personally for the good
you do, remember any good accomplished
by woman in general reflects credit on each
individual woman; and in this important
fact find abundant reward.
    Happily few are so poor that, if they love
the cause, they cannot contribute a little to
the funds; and it is by the union of many
littles that great things are achieved. Sup-
pose each member of a society should give
monthly a small stated sum into the
treasury; say fifty cents, twenty-five cents,
or even ten cents, it would be a very light
burden individually, if given with a grate-
ful heart, and it would accumulate surpris-ingly. Very soon, a few choice volumes
could be laid on the shelves for the use of
the sisterhood, and much valuable instruc-
tion be gained by appointing one to read
aloud while others sew. A sewing or
knitting machine would add much to your
resources; and I think you are the proper
persons to keep burial clothes on hand to be
had at an hour's warning.
    Who knows but you might be able to give
a handsome present to the Temple or emi-
grating funds, or other public benefactions
which are dear to your hearts? And how
nice it would be to build and furnish for
yourselves large commodious rooms in which
to hold your working meetings, your prayer
meetings and your business meetings; or to
assemble your daughters for instruction in
the ways you love to have them walk in.
No one can venture to foretell half the good
a regular though small income might enable
you to accomplish.
    It is worthy of consideration, sisters, and
I beg you will not hastily decide that you
cannot afford it, for you do afford many a
thing less desirable. Say you will afford it
for the sake of God and womanhood; and
then leave off the ruffles from Mary's dress
and the braid from Johnny's jacket, and thus
you not only save a little money but a little
time, a little strength, a little patience also;
and trust me, you will soon feel well paid.
    In conclusion, bear in mind that any
organization requires time to grow mature
by experience; so be not discouraged if you
make some mistakes. Through prayer and
diligence keep the Spirit of God, and all your
undertakings will be prospered. That such
may be our happy lot is the prayer of your
humble sister,				L. L. D.


