R. S. REPORTS.
			   —
  Miss Sarah E.  McKnight writes from
Minersville, Beaver County, as follows:—I
see reports from other Societies, in the Expo-
nent, and feel that I have been neglectful
in not sending you a report of our Society
earlier.   However, we are improving as we
hope to continue doing, through the blessings
of the Lord, in whom we trust.  As a
Society and as individuals, we endeavor to
be always on hand to assist the poor, or to
aid in any good undertaking.  The Society
was organized April 5th, 1869, and reorgan-
ized February 6th, 1871, with 68 members.
We have donated towards the building of
the Temple in St. George, and have helped
our Bishop in other public matters.   There
is a surplus remaining in the Treasury at
present.   On the 16th of March, 1873, at a
meeting of the Society, a unanimous vote
was taken to omit the word “Female” from
its name. The Exponent is read with
much interest and we feel that its mission
will result in great good, and pray Heaven
to bless its editor, and all who seek to pro--
mote the cause of Truth. Mrs. Lydia Black-
burn is the President of our Society.
				——
  Smithfield R. S. Report:—Ourannual meet-
ing was held May 12th, at the School-house:
Singing and prayer being offered, President
E. T. Morehead made appropriate remarks
concerning our duties in assisting to gather
the Saints from foreign lands; also the im-
portance of being united in our labors; the
necessity of educating the youth that they
might be qualified to occupy honorable
[new column]
positions in society; the sisters keeping in
mind the admonitions of President Young
in his discourse to the Relief Societies, about
the saving of the paper rags, etc.; spoke
highly in favor of the Woman’s Exponent
and urged the sisters to subscribe and write
for the paper.' Counselor A. Barber spoke
at some length upon the principle of Celes-
tial marriage; she realized that her Heavenly
Father had blessed her in yielding obedience
to that principle; showed forth the duty of
those present to each others as members of
one great family, and exhorted them to be
faithful, for the Lord had been their shield
in the past, and would be in the future if
they would do their part; she hoped
they would be liberal in their contributions
to the P. E. Fund. Counselor M. Ainscough
followed with a short address on the same
subject, said that polygamy was a trial to
the feelings of a great many but in, as, much
as they lived near to the Lord they would
be strengthened, and through obedience to
that revelation would receive an exaltation
in the Kingdom of God.   Spoke in favor of
the Exponent, saying that it was the duty
of the sisters to sustain the paper by sub-
scribing for it.
  The financial report was read showing
that the Society was in a prosperous condi-
tion. The income, for the year ending May
12th, 1873, derived from donations, work
done by the Society, interest on shares in
 the Co-operative store, etc., amounted to
$232:08.  There had been given to the poor,
to the P. E. Fund, schooling and other use-
ful objects $150:35.   President Morehead
made some closing remarks upon the pros-
perity of the Society, encouraging the sisters
 to attend meetings; she was satisfied with
what had been accomplished in the past
year, and hoped they would ever be co-
workers with the brethren in discharging
every duty  incumbent upon them.   Dis-
missed with prayer by E. T. Morehead. 
	Mrs. E.T. Morehead, President.
	Mrs. Adaline Barber, }
	Mrs. Mary Ainscough} Counselors.
	Mrs. J. S. Coleman,, Secretary.
	Mrs. Margaret Story, Treasurer.
			      —
  Midway, May 28th 1873. The Relief
Society of this place was organized April
18th, 1870, but circumstances occurred, by
which it became necessary, on the 19th of
August 1872, for President Alexander to
reorganize the Society, with Mrs. Es-
ther Dabling as President, Mrs. Sarah Alex-
ander first; and Mrs. Mary M. Huber second
Counselors. Mrs. Elilabeth Alexander Sec-
retary and Mrs. Elizabeth Wintch, Treasurer.
And we are very happy to state that from
that time to the present, what few members
we have in our Society are united and feel
determined to do all the good they can.
We have not many destitute in this place,
but to what few there are we have been able
to render some assistance. As other Socie-
ties have done, we also have taken a vote to
omit the word “Female,” which was
unanimous.   We have not much means on
hand at present, but hope the day is not far
distant when we shall be able to assist the
poor of our faith, who are now in distant
lands, to come and dwell with us in our
mountain home.  The Exponent comes a
very welcome guest to us, who wish it pros-
perity.
  Mrs. Elizabeth Alexander, Secretary.
			   ——
     We receive from Payson, Utah County,
the following, written June 1st, 1873:
	On Wednesday, May 28th, we held our
annual meeting. Our Relief Society was
organized in 1868, under the direction of
Bishop Fairbanks; Mrs. Jane Simons Presi.
[new column]
dent, Mrs. Agnes Douglass first and Mrs.
Mary Moore second Counselors, Mrs. Mary
Ann Hardy, Secretary and Mrs. Sarah
Fairbanks Treasurer; each one still retains
her office. We had a good meeting on
Wednesday; $249 had been received during
the past year, and $223:30 had been dis-
bursed. The following named brethren
were present; Harvey Moore, David Fair-
banks, Thomas Daniels, John Loveless, and
Charles Burr; they gave good counsel and
instructions  The sisters felt well, full of
the spirit of their calling; to be one with
their President and her Counselors.  After
meeting, the Assembly was invited to
remain and partake of a “Pic-nic” which
had been prepared by the Teachers and was
by no means an ungenerous affair. The
remnants we distributed among the sick and
old ladies. The Exponent is ever welcome
among us and I think  is appreciated by all.
Sister Simons often reads it to the sisters in
our meetings, as all have not the means of 
obtaining it.  It is especially interesting to 
learn from it the progress of the Jerusalem 
Party, written by our beloved sister, Eliza
R. Snow.
			M. A. HARDY, Secretary.
			      ——
   From Logan, May 21st, 1873:   A brief 
report of the annual meeting of the Relief
Society, held in Logan Hall, on the 19 inst.,
Mrs. M.  A.  Maughan, President of  the
Society Presiding. Minutes of the last
meeting were read and accepted; also the
financial reports for the year; showing that
the means collected had been faithfully dis-
bursed to the poor and needy.  Though
there was not a large attendance, those
present enjoyed a good meeting, and re-
ceived many wise instructions from our
President and others, who expressed their
desires to do good.    We consider your
paper constantly increases in value, and
deem it a great blessing.—Yours in the
Gospel of Peace,
				 MARY MCALISTER.
			     ——
 Minutes of the 59th meeting of  the C.R. 
A., held June 7th, 1873, at the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms. Meeting opened by
singing "May we who know the joyful
sound,” etc.   Prayer by Counselor Mrs.
P. Woodruff.  Singing, "Behold the Moun-
tain of the Lord,” etc.  Minutes of the pre-
vious meeting were read and accepted; also,
minutes of meetings in the 8th and 11th
Wards were read.
	Remarks made by President Mrs.
M. I. Horne. The minutes which had been
read, were to her very edifying. The sub-
jects of medicine and nursing the sick were
to be continued that day. Kind nursing
was more reliable than medicine. There
were many present who could give good
instructions. The speaker believed there
was an herb for every disease; many were
afflicted with colds.  For a cold to drink
sage tea and bathe the feet upon going to bed 
was a good thing.  For liver complaint, tea 
made from the dandelion root was excellent.
For children afflicted with dysentery,  to 
give a dose of caster oil would often do good.
For a fever, to bathe in saleratas and water
or salt and water was very good.   In sick-
ness faith should always be united with 
medicines given. The subject was inex-
haustible.
  Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young said the
remarks that had been made by sister Horne
were excellent. They should give medicine
in time, and not let children waste away
before exertions were made to relieve them.
The ordinances of the Church should never
be forgotten. To see the progress the sisters


were making was sufficient to make them
think they were living in the millenium.
	Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff said there
were so many excellent subjects before her
she did not know which was best.   In sick-
ness she believes in the ordinances of the
Gospel as much as any thing.   Mothers
should watch their children; they would
then have little cause to employ doctors.
They should look closely to the nature of
the disease, and then having learned to un-
derstand it, give that which will prove
effectual in curing. The subject which was
before the meeting, was one which concerned
every person.   It was a great blessing which
their Heavenly Father bestowed upon them
in allowing them to meet together to receive
instruction. They should treasure up all
that was instructive; not by the multitude
of words spoken but by the spirit in which
they were spoken, was the testimony given.
 Counselor Mrs. E. Howard said, she could
truly say that all which had been advanced
that afternoon was excellent.  She did not
approve of sending for doctors, unless there
was something very serious. If the Word
of Wisdom was, kept, very little sickness
would be known.
  Mrs. Harper considered the remarks of
sister Horne and the prescriptions which
she had given were good; had had much
sickness to contend with and knew the pre-
scriptions which had been given to be
genuine.  They should guard their child-
ren, and say nothing that would turn them
from the plan of salvation.  She prayed the
Lord to bless all efforts to do good.
  Mrs. W. East could concur with all that had
been spoken. If they had a book of recipes
for sickness, from the sisters, she would not
exchange it for any medical work.  Since
she had become a Latter-day Saint, she had
always gone to the good Doctor, which was
God.   They should keep in mind the coun-
sel of President Young, which was to use
mild herbs and the ordinances of God.  She
would recommend for a burn, the application
of a cloth three or four thicknesses wet with
cold water, with great care not to let the
air get to the burned flesh. For erysipelas,
apply to the parts affected a cloth three or
four thicknesses wet with starch mixed with
cold water; mix saleratus and cider vinegar
and drink.
  Counselor Mrs S. M. Kimball continued
her lecture on health.   Mrs. Hampton and
Mrs. Whitney made excellent remarks.
Counselor Z. D. Young recommended for
measles that were obstinate, to drink the
tea of wheat.
  Mrs Pixton recommended for severe vom-
iting dry corn pa[--]ed on the cob, pour boil-
ing water on it, and drink the tea. For a
cold, drink warm drinks and have hot bricks
dipped in cold water wrapped in flannels
and put around the body.   For inflamations
apply corn meal mush poultices, with a
little mustard in it. For children in fist,
give rue tea.
  The same subject to be continued next
meeting.   Meeting adjourned for two
weeks.   Singing, Lord dismiss us, etc.
Benediction by Mrs. Watmough.
				M. M. Groo Secretary.


