LETTER FROM ENGLAND. 
	
				Manchester, England,
						May 8th, 1873. 
	Beloved Sister:—I feel that I must
thank you for all the good you have done
me, and for all the happiness and pleasure
I have received from the perusal of your
valuable paper. It has been a source of
great joy to me; I may almost say a friend
and companion since I have received it. I
have been a better daughter, a better sister,
a better Saint and a firmer friend than I was
before. It has given me a wish to be, and
to do, something for the work in which all
our hopes are centered. Sometimes when I
think of the examples we young sisters have
set us by some of our beloved and noble
sisters, I feel that we ought to profit by
them more than some of us do. We can do
but little in comparison, 'tis true; still you
would say, “do all the good you possi-
bly can in your sphere and you will be
blessed." I wish your paper could be as
extensively circulated and read here, among
our sisters, as at home. It would, I am sure,
be productive of much good, both to the
brethren and the sisters. I feel I can never
be sufficiently grateful to my friend through
whose thoughtful kindness I receive it so
regularly
	I was one of a few to whom was granted
the pleasure of an introduction to our
mutual sister, Miss Eliza R. Snow. It was
a privilege that I greatly appreciate, and
though I only saw her during her short
visit in Liverpool, I should, did I never see
her again,always remember her with love and
veneration. I went with President Carring-
ton and a few others to the station, and
when I saw her and party leave en route
for London, I felt as lonely as if I had known
her for years, 
	With kind love to yourself, and all our
dear sisters in Utah, and best wishes for the
Exponent, which I sincerely pray may con-
tinue to increase in circulation, and hoping
that it may do all the good I know you wish
it to, I remain your grateful and affectionate
sister.
						A. J. Schofield.


﻿It is reported that most of the vines in
Burgundy and Bordeaux.have been frozen,
but New Jersey cider is still plenty.


