FLOWERS.

	Civility costs nothing and buys every-
thing.
	Do not meddle with business you know
nothing of. 
	Where manufactures flourish, land and
its products are most valuable.
	Every man complains of his memory,
but no man complains of his judgement.
	Keep good company and let not your
associates have cause to shun or be ashamed
of you.
	Nothing condemns more powerfully the
violence of the wicked than the moderation
of the good.
	It is with our judgements as with our
watches, none go just alike, yet each be-
lieves his own
	The first ingredient in conversation is
truth, the next good sense, the third good
humor, and the fourth wit.
	Carefully, avoid vices which most
resemble virtue; they are a thousand times
the most ensnaring of all vices
	Candor in some people may be compared
to barley-sugar drops in which the acid
preponderates over the sweetness.
	Serenity of mind is nothing worth,
unless it has been earned; a man should be
at once susceptible of passions, and able to
subdue them.
	Nature is very careful to provide against
scarcity. In the moral world it is the
same. Goodness and beauty lie thick
around us, in spite of sin, and sorrow, and
wrong of all kinds.
	Man is like a snowball. Leave him lying
in idleness against the sunny face of pros-
perity, and all the good that is in him melts
like fresh butter in the dog days; but kick
him around, and he gathers strength at
every revolution.
	The foundation of domestic happiness is
faith in the virtue of woman; the founda-
tion of political happiness is confidence in
the integrity of man; the foundation of all
happiness, temporal and eternal, is reliance
on the goodness of God.
	The angels are beautiful because they
are good," and there is no true, enduring
beauty that comes not from goodness shin-
ing through the soul's face and form, as
home-lights gleam out through the night’s
brooding shadows, to tell of all that home
means to the weary and hungry of heart.
	Though sometimes small evils, like in-
visible insects, inflict pain, and a single
hair may stop a vast machine, yet the chief
secret of comfort lies in not suffering trifles
to vex one, and in prudently cultivating an
undergrowth of small pleasures, since
very few great ones, alas! are let on long
leases.
	Too great a desire to please will often
give a person the appearance of being both
deceitful and insipid; while perfect indiffer-
ence to the opinion of others will make one
seem boorish and hateful; but an even,
straightforward, independent course, with
a generous appreciation of the good feelings
of mankind, never fails to win respect, con-
fidence and friendship.


﻿The number of persons run over in the
streets of Paris averages 1135 annually.
	The greatest cataract in the world is the
Falls of Niagara, where the water from the
great upper lakes forms a river three quar-
ters of a mile in width, and then, being
suddenly contracted, plunges over the rocks
in two columns, to the depth of one hundred
and seventy feet each!


