R.S. REPORTS.
			—
		Richfield, May 11th, 1873.
Dear Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
 I deem it a privilege and a duty to write
a few lines for your interesting paper.  I
have an earnest desire to assist in rolling
forth the work in which we are engaged in
these the last days. We have a Relief
Society organized here in Richfield, which
is doing much good in helping the poor,
both at home and abroad. In our last
monthly meeting, May 1st, we agreed to
omit the word “Female” from the name of
our Society. The sisters, in general, feel
well in their religion; and are well paid for
taking your paper; much information is
gained there, from.
  May we ever increase in the Truth.
	Respectfully yours in the Gospel,
		Eliza A. Ogilvie, President.
			 —
 From Providence, Cache County, April
29th, 1873: The Relief Society of this
place, held its annual meeting in the school-
[new column]
room, on Monday, 28th inst. Owing to a
snow storm prevailing that day the meeting
was slimly attended. The Secretary read
the income and expenditure for the past
year; which showed a balance of $103:23 in
favor of the Society. The sisters present
bore faithful testimonies to the good which
had been effected through their weak instru-
mentality also expressed united desires to
support and strengthen, by their labor and
means and further extend the usefulness
of the thriving institution. A few of the
brethren followed with congratulatory and
encouraging remarks, which brought the
meeting to a close, every one enjoying a
fulness of the Spirit of God. We thank-
fully receive the Exponent which is much
appreciated.
	Mrs. Margaret Mathews, Prest.
			    —
 The Relief Society of Ogden met in the
new city hall, May 1st, 1873, to engage in a
meeting and “Pic nic.”.
 President Mrs. J. S. Richards called .the
meeting to order:  Singing:  Prayer by
Secretary Mrs. A. M. Frodsham: Singing:
Minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
President Mrs. J. S. Richards remarked
that she had invited the young ladies from
the schools to come to meeting: President
Young had given a great deal of good in-
struction to the sisters during Conference;
he wished them to save all their paper
rags, thus assisting to commence measures
for making their own paper and books. She
liked the Exponent very much and hoped
the sisters would all try to take it. Sister
Belknapp, President of the Relief Society,
at Hoopersville, and sister Higbee from
Salt Lake City, made appropriate remarks.
  Elder F. D. Richards felt truly thankful
to see so many of the sisters together; hoped
the society would continue to increase until
every good sister was united with it. Be-
sides blessing the poor, one great object
of the society was that the daughters of
Zion might learn their duties as mothers
and towards each other; treasuring up every
thing that was good, and overcoming all
that was evil. Life's labors were life’s
pleasures.  Brother Phineas Richards gave
excellent instructions in regard to bringing
up children and how they should be dressed.
Advised the sisters to search the Sciptures
and learn to understand truth from error for
themselves. Sister Wordsworth next ad-
dressed the meeting, and was followed by
sister Petry, who said that the next Sunday
she would be eighty-three years old, and
she thanked God that she had embraced the
Gospel.   Sister Elizabeth Browning and
sister Hadlock made remarks. President
Mrs. J. S. Richards felt blessed in listening
to the testimonies of father Phineas Rich-
ards, eighty-five, and mother Petry, eighty-
three years old; it was edifying and
gratifying to listen to such aged people.
Remarks were made by sister Sarah Nelson
and Secretary A. M. Frodsham. Sister J.
S.Richards then appointed a meeting for
the young ladies on the following Thursday
at 4 o’clock p. m. After which, refresh-
ments were partaken of; and of about 140 per-
sons who were present, there was none who
did not appear to enjoy the good spirit and
feel satisfied with the way in which the
afternoon was spent.
  Meeting adjourned and was dismissed
with singing, and prayer by sister Belknapp.
  According to appointment a meeting of
the young ladies of Ogden was held on the
8th of May, at which much valuable counsel
and instruction was given by President Mrs.
J. S. Richards and others. Eighty young
ladies were present and all, by a unani-
[new column]
mous vote, expressed themselves pleased
with the meeting. . Another was appointed
for the following Wednesday at half past 4
p. m.
			A. M. Frodsham, Secretary.
				 —
 At the 58th meeting of the Senior and
Junior Co-operative Retrenchment Associa-
tions of this city, held May 24th, 1873, in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, simple
medicines, how to gain health and how to
preserve it were the principal topics treated
upon. Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young made
appropriate remarks; Counselor Mrs. S. M.
Kimball gave an intelligent and highly
edifying address on the above mentioned
subjects and Mrs. Watmough related some
facts proven by experience, etc.  The same
subjects were to be continued at the next
meeting.


