VOLUME TWO.
					  ——
    The EXPONENT to-day enters its second year.
While its success has exceeded the expecetations
entertained when its publication was com-
menced, it has not been such as to yet justify
certain improvements which we hope at an
early day to introduce. The question of en-
largement, or of issuing weekly instead of
bi-weekly, has been considered, but it requires
even a larger subscription list than we yet
have to warrant such a step. We have not
sought to make the EXPONENT an advertising
medium, although advertisements are the great
source of income for most journals; the desire
being to devote the space to matter of greater
importance to our readers. And while the
business was indeed new to us a year ago, we
have received kind and freely tendered assist-
ance, which has been much appreciated, and
have gained experience during the year, that
will aid us in future editorial labors. It is not
to be supposed that in the limited space at
our command there could be given all the
variety of topics and reading matter which a
larger journal contains; but our efforts have
been directed towards imparting as much and
varied information as possible, on topics of
interest to women generally. The many
cheering letters continually received from all
parts of the Territory, and from other parts of
the world, have been encouraging, and have
given assurance that those efforts have not
been altogether unsuccessful.
    In commencing the second year of the EXPO-


NENT we earnestly desire a continuation of the
aid so cheerfully tendered in the past; contri-
butions on such topics of interest as our lady
correspondents may feel led to write upon;
reports, as before, of the works and progress of
the many Relief Societies of the Territory,
which, to our mind, has been one of the most
interesting features of the last volume; and such
other assistance as a desire to foster and extend
the influence of the journal for good may
suggest. And we shall endeavor in diligence,
in faithfulness, and with humble reliance on
the Spirit of the Almighty, to so conduct it,
and fill its pages, that it may be and continue
to be truly the exponent of the women of Utah
and become a necessity in every household
where right and truth are the governing prin-
ciples.


