HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

        A GOOD wife, a true woman is a real
heroine and an accomplished actress. She
puts her own grievances out of sight to
drive away with pleasant smiles the clouds
that gather around her husband's gloomy
brow; she pours oil on the troubled waters
of her own soul, that she may sooth his
sorrow; she dashes the teardrop from her
eye that she may remove the cup of bitter-
ness from his lips, while he suspects not
there are sorrows weighing down her
aching heart. She cultivates cheerfulness,
and endeavors to banish despondency, for
she is a true philosopher, and knows that a
gloomy spirit but aggravates the ills of life.
    Perhaps if husbands were more considerate
and good wives better appreciated, happy
homes would be more numerous. But many
a good wife goes down to death and they
raise not a stone, carve not a line to tell of
her many virtues, but as she fades from
earth her self-sacrificing, noble nature fades
also from the memory of the living. She
does not seek her reward in the world's
praises, neither is it to be found there, but
if her duties are rightly and well performed,
her reward will surely come.
    A HOME OF TASTE.—Every good picture
is the best of sermons and lectures. The
sense informs the soul. Whatever you have
have beauty. Let beauty be on the paper on
your walls. It is as easy to choose a paper
suggestive of the lovely in color and form,
as the uncouth. Why should not every
household object be sanctified with this
grateful charm? Each chair, each table,
each tea or chamber-service, and every
object for kitchen or parlor, for the home of
the poor man, artizan or mechanic, I would
have them all worthy of a home of taste.—
"Sydney Smith."
    THE scientific branch of cookery com-
prises the devising of dishes and sauces. The
artistic branch constitutes the art of garnish-
ing, and this plays a most important part in
the outcome of the kitchen, as by means of
it, dishes please the eye before they please
the palate. First impressions go a great
way, and when one sense is captivated by
an agreeable and inviting appearance, the
dish must be bad indeed which fails to stand
the more searching ordeal of taste. Besides,
people who suffer from jaded appetites have
a better chance of eating their dinner when
the dishes which are put before them are
pleasant to the sight.
    ALL green vegetables of the cabbage kind
should be chosen with large, close, firm
hearts; when fresh the leaves are crisp and
brittle; when stale they are lank and droop-
ing.
    PUDDING cloths, however coarse, ought
never to be washed with soap; they should
be dried as quickly as possible, and kept
free from dust, and in a drawer or cupboard
free from smell.
    A GOOD lip-salve, useful for chaps, etc.,
is made of equal parts of almond or olive
oil, and the best white wax: melt the latter
in a clean gallipot, set at the side of the fire,
then add the oil.
    GERMAN FRITTERS.—Cut some slices of
bread half an inch thick, remove the crust,
and soak in milk: beat two eggs, pour them
over the bread, and fry it in butter; strew
powdered sugar over the fritters.
    ITALIAN RICE PUDDING.—A teacup of
rice, the yolks of four eggs, the whites of
three beaten separately, two ounces of
pounded sugar, two ounces of raisins, a
quarter pound of suet chopped very fine,
flavoring of ratafia or vanilla. Put these in-
[new column]
gredients into a mould, boil, and serve
with brandy sauce.
    PARSNIP SOUP.—One pound of sliced
parsnips, two ounces of butter, salt and
cayenne to taste, one quart of stock. Put
the parsnips into the stewpan with the but-
ter, which has previously melted, and
simmer them till quite tender. Then add
nearly a pint of stock, and boil together for
half an hour. Pass all through a fine
strainer, and put to it the remainder of the
stock. Season, boil, and serve immediately.
    A SURE CURE FOR COLD.—New-laid egg,
well-beaten, dessertspoonful of fine oatmeal,
dessertspoonful of moist sugar, a little
powdered ginger, little salt, half an
ounce of fresh butter. All mixed well to-
gether. Pour on  half a pint, or rather more,
of boiling water, gently stirring quickly all
the time to prevent curdling. To be taken
at bedtime until the cold is removed.
    STEWED RED CABBAGE.—One red cab-
bage, a small slice of ham, half an ounce of
fresh butter, one pint of stock or broth, one
gill of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, one
tablespoonful of pounded sugar. Cut the
cabbage into very thin slices, put it into a
stewpan, the ham cut in dice, the butter,
half a pint of stock, and the vinegar: cover
the pan closely, and let it stew. When it is
very tender, add the remainder of the stock,
a seasoning of salt and pepper, and the
pounded sugar: mix all well together, stir
over the fire until all the liquor is dried
away, and serve. Fried sausages are
usually sent to table with this dish; they
should be laid around and on the cabbage,
as a garnish.


