Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in January) MIRACLES OF THE LATTER DAYS (Continued) Some Ordinance Miracles: I?Res oration of the Lesser Priesthood. In this lesson we shall consider some ordinance miracles which form a vital part of the restoration of the gospel in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. The extended miracle of translating the Book of Mormon gave to the inhabitants of the earth the fulness of the everlasting gospel, as revealed to the ancient inhabitants of America, but it did not include the bringing back of the authority for man to officiate as an agent of the Lord _and thus become a sharer in divine respons: bility. The first ordinance miracle of record in the history of the Church was the recommissioning of man to act for Deity. This event is known as the restoration of the Lesser Priesthood. This miracle was preceded by an event in heaven. From among the resurrected beings, John the Baptist was selected to perform the mission of coming to earth to give to man divine authority, and to promise the coming of other messengers with the keys of a higher Priesthood. This ordinance miracle was performed on the 15th of May, 1829. When the messenger from on h'gh arrived he found John and Oliver engaged in prayer. He introduced himself, performed the ordinance, supplemented it with instructions and promises, and departed. On that same day the first two authoritative baptisms on the earth for centuries were performed. The Priesthood of Aaron, which was left among the Israelites after the death of Moses, and during the apostasy lost to earth, was restored with the keys or authority to confer it on others. Of this event Oliver Cowdery writes: "Ona sudden, as from the midst of eternity, the voice of the Redeemer spake peace to us, while the veil was parted and the angel of God came down clothed with glory and delivered the anxiously looked for message, and the keys of the gospel of repentance. What joy! What wonder! What amazement! While the world was wicked and dis-  tracted, while millions were groping as the blind for the wall, and while all men were resting upon uncertainty as a general mass, our eyes beheld?our ears heard. As in the blaze of day; yes, more?above the glitter of the May sunbeam, which then shed its brilliancy over the face of nature. Then his voice, though mild, pierced to the center, and his words: 'I am thy fellow-servant,' dispelled every fear. We listened, we gazed, we admired! 'Twas the voice of an angel from glory, twas a message from the Most High, and as we heard we rejoiced, while his love enkindled upon our souls, and we were wrapt in the vision of. The Almighty! Where was room for doubt? Nowhere; uncertainty had fled, doubt had sunk, no more to rise, while fiction and deception had fled forever." History of the Church, Vol. I, pages 42, 43. II?The Restoration of the Higher Priesthood. ? | Another ordinance miracle, of brief record, was the restoration of the Higher Priesthood which was promised in the first ordinance miracle. Although the date and place are not definitely given, the fact of the miracle being performed is unmistakably set forth in Doc. And Cov. Section 27:12;128:20, and that it was performed on the Susquehanna River. Section 128:20 contains the testimony of the Prophet concerning this miraculous event. As to the time of this miracle, there seems to be evidence that it was performed before the organization of the Church. The account of the organization of the Church reads: "We still continued to bear testimony and give information, as far as we had opportunity; and also made known to our brethren that we had received a commandment to organize the Church; and accordingly we met together for that purpose, at the home of Peter ~ Whitmer, Sen., (being six in number) on Tuesday, the sixth day of April, A. D., one thousand eight hundred and thirty, Having opened the meeting by solemn prayer'to our heavenly Father, we proceeded according to previous commandment, to call on our brethren to know whether they accepted us as their teachers in the things of the kingdom of God, and whether they were satisfied that we should proceed and be organized as a Church according to said commandment which we had received. To these several propositions they consented by a unanimous vote. I then laid my hands upon Oliver Cowdery, and ordained him an Elder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; after which he ordained me also to the office of an Elder of the Church. We then took bread, blessed it, and broke it with them; also wine, blessed it, and drank it with them. We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the  ie of Christ."?History of the Church, Vol. I, pages 75, 76,, 78. Here at the organization of the Church elders were ordained. Persons who had been baptized by water received the ordinance for a spiritual baptism, and were confirmed members of the Church, all of which was beyond the authority of the Aaronic Priesthood. ITI?An Ordinance Miracle of Hymnal Reference. For a consideration of this topic, the student is referrred to the lines in the first stanza of "Pra'se to the man who communed with Jehovah," reading: "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer." with the suggestion that special consideration be given to the word "anointed." When it is remembered that W. W. Phelps, the author of this hymn, was a man of prominence in the Church and closely associated with the Prophet Joseph, we can hardly think. That he - would have used the word anointed as he did without historical justification. The chain of events solemnly, and yet simply, referred to by the Prophet Joseph as recorded in Sec. 128:20, were all miraculous, as also was the acceptance of the Kirtland temple by the Savior, the conferring of the keys of the gathering by Moses, the renewal of the Abrahamic promise by Elias, the keys for turning the hearts of the children to the fathers and the fathers - to the children by Elijah. One significant fact is prominent in the l'fe of the Prophet Joseph in his relation to miraculous events. He was wonderfully humble. C Among the first revelations that he received, was one promising the coming of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and, the hearts of the children to the fathers. How he must have longed for the fulfilment of this promise; and yet with these longings he patiently waited the time of the Lord. He never attempted to enter any sacred doors without first having the keys; he never attempted to open this dispensation faster than he was authorized. His humility was absolute assurance against humiliation. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What three lines of action were authorized through the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood? Doc. And Cov. Sec. 13. 2. Who was the mother of John the Baptist? What were  the circumstances of his birth? What wonderful mission did he perform on the earth in mortality? 3. What evidence have we that he was a resurrected being when he performed this Latter-day ordinance miracle? 4. In what official relation did he stand to Peter, James, and John? ? 5. How did Joseph and Oliver know that John the Baptist was not an imposter? 6. How may a clear knowledge concerning the miracle of the restoration of the Priesthood be used by parents to awaken in their sons an interest in and a desire for the Priesthood? 7. How may a knowledge of the miraculous events of the Kirtland temple dedication be used to encourage temple marriages? 8. What evidence have we that the Melchizedek Priesthood was restored before the organization of the Church, April 6, 1830? LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in January) LESSON III Literature. _ (Third week in January) The literary work for the coming year will consist of a study of American literature. Three distinct periods loom before us, as we think of our American life on this continent. First, the Colonial period (1607- 1765) with the hardships incident to pioneer life?a life that would be readily understood by our pioneer fathers and mothers. Following this period is the Revolutionary period (1765-1789) a period of conflict when intense hatred of tyranny and love of freedom found voice in Patrick Henry's classic phrase, "Give me lberty, or give me death." The third period is the period of the Republic, (1789-1922), the period that has given to us our best American poetry, essays, novels, short stories, dramas, letters, and criticism. Colonial Period: During the Colonial period the people were so completely occupied subduing the country, turning a rockbound coast into a habitable place, preserving their lives and property from the Indians, that they had no time to devote to any of the arts. Ce Sane ee GUIDE LESSONS ? 603 There is yet another reason why tio literature, in the sense of literature as a fine art, was known at this time. Religion was the all engrossing topic, along the New England coast, so that persons possessing literary talents either went into the pulpit, thereby entering into the ministry, or they devoted themselves to the writing of ecclesiastical history. The same condit: on existed in America as existed in Italy, from the tenth to the fifteenth century. Painters, during this period, used their talents to decorate the cathedrals and churches of the middle ages, and their subjects were taken from the Bible or the lives of the Saints. The New England minister was regarded as the leading citizen in the commun'ty. Katherine Lee Bates says of the minister of the Colonial pericd, that "he was a little short of an autocrat, the New England parson of the Heroic age, in his black Geneva cloak and close fitting, Llack velvet cap. The tongue that decried him was in danger of a cleft stick. Criticisms of his sermons were answered with public stripes." Of their place of meeting Katherine Lee Bates has this to say, "The meetinghouse was the strong power of Colon'al truth. Built on a hill top, it had served at the outset, for fort as well as church. Ammunition was stored in 'ts loft. On its flat roof cannon were posted and sentinels kept watch. The drum beat assembled an armed congregation." "For once, for fear of Indian beating, Our grandsires bore their guns to meeting. Each man equipped on Sunday morn With psalm-book, shot and powder horn, And looked in form, as all must grant Like the ancient true church militant." It has been estimated that of the five hundred and fifty publications, known to have been produced in America from 1706 to 1718, all but eighty-four were on religious topics, forty-nine of the eighty-four being almanacs. Another way in which the life of the colonials bore very 'close resemblance to the life of the pioneers is evidenced by the fact that they had constantly to protect themselves from the Indians. Indians, to be sure, find the'r way from time to time in all of the early _American literature. The people who settled Virginia were different from those who settled in Massachuse'ts. Those who landed in Virginia were in the main fortune hunters, lured by tales of gold and jewels, "Even the dripping pans are made of pure gold," said o~e of the popular English plays of the time. The first permanent colony, of 1607, has been described as a company of one hundred "fortune seeking gallants, soldiers, servants, with a few downright rogues and the merest sprinkling of mechanics."  The prominent name among the Virginia colonists is that of Captain John Smith, who has given us the most dramatic of all Indian tales which, whether true or false, has immortalized Chief Powhatan and the lovely Princess Pocahontas. The love story of Colonial time most admired and most beloved is that of John Alden and Priscilla Mullins. It is a great debt we owe to Henry W. Longfellow that he has preserved this tale in all its quaintness in the atmosphere of an age that has passed. These early settlers of the New World were homesick. At one time the writer went through Kent and Devonshire with a young woman born and reared in Boston. Daily we passed through English towns, whose names were familiar to the native of New England, Boston being one of them. "I never sensed before how homesick my ancestors really were,' she remarked, on one occasion. These people imported their literature from England, just as they imported their dress goods and other household commodities of life, and doubtless preferred the imported article. All about them was a new world, with new physical features, with an expanse and vastness that was in sharp contrast to their island home, with different song birds and different flowers, but they heeded them not. Deep in their hearts was the memory of the English landscapes, and of Engl'sh birds; a memory kept alive by the literature they read; a memory that they refused to relinquish for many decades after they landed in America. All through the Colonial period religion was, to employ a political phrase, the paramount issue. In time, the meetinghouse ceased to be a fort and an arsenal, but it continued to be a place of the strictest discipline. "Tt remained a bleak and austere place of long prayers and longer sermons, and of most discordant singing. With little aid of printed notes and noise of instruments. - There were no stoves. Sometimes it chanced that m'dwinter babies were sprinkled with baptismal water from which the ice in the christening bowl had to be broken, the parent allowing themselves a twinge of pride if the tiny Puritan endured the ordeal without a cry! Sometimes the communion bread was frozen pretty hard and rattled sadly in the plates! The congregation embracing the whole community was seated by scale of social consequence; magistracy, wealth, learning, military service, age, were factors in dignity. Men and women were seated apart, spinsters, ungallantly known in Boston as thornbacks, by themselves, negroes by themselves, boys by themselves." Forbidding and socially unjust as many of the Puritan customs were, yet they were not wholly bad. In their churches people learn- _  ed God and their Redeemer and knew much concerning his divine commandments. Today, people too often do any other thing than go to a house of worship on the Sabbath. They know little of his divine purpose in relation to his children. The Puritan forced from life many things that make for happiness, but at least he held in his heart the knowledge of the life after death, and believed that eventually justice and peace and law and order would be the common heritage of man. Today there are thousands of people in the world, who know little of God, little of the Bible, and who doubt very much if there is a God, or if there is a divine purpose in the things that are and are to be. These people are without hope, and truly as the Scripture saith, they are of all people most miserable. REFERENCES The Colonial Period: A Standard History of the Umied States. Any good history of American literature. OUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Into what three periods has the history of American literature been divided? 2. Which period is foremost in its literary output? What variety is there in this output? 3. In your opinion, would a survey of Latter-day Saint I: terature likely disclose the same fact that the survey of American literature discloses, that the majority of the Latter-day Saint writers have written on religious topics? 4. Have some one relate the story of the Courtship of Miles Standish placing emphasis on any word or phrase that helps to portray the Puritan life. 5. Have some one relate an incident of Indian life that you would like to see cast into story or poem. If possible, have some one sing a solo from the opera Priscilla. If you can, easily, have some children dressed in Colonial costumes; it will add to the effect. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth week in January) LATER ADOLESCENCE. (CONTINUED) Extending Acquaintanceship In our previous lesson we considered the place and importance of courtship as a condition to happy married life. We  also observed the customs of courtship and the attitude of the mind which exists in our communities in relation to it. In this and the following lesson, we shall treat the subject of acquantanceship and friendship as conditions essential to successful courtship. Courtship and the Obligation of Parenthood In our generation and in this country particularly, marriage is based on love. We pride ourselves upon the fact that we select our own life companions and that our parents do not select them for us. We place great importance upon the right which every man and every woman has to select his or her own companion and that the selection is based upon love rather than wealth or class distinction. This is a real attainment, and we do not, under any consideration, desire to revert to the old regime. We believe that our system is more natural and results in greater happiness. But what we desire is to make sure that in the new liberty that has come to us, blind impulses shall not take the place of reason, and that fads will not lead us to sacrifice common sense. We need to be constanly on the alert, as parents, to protect our youth against their own blind impulses, the ever changing fads and temporary notions wh: ch may defeat the real purpose of our very democratic system of association and selection. Certainly, the yielding up of the absolute parental control in the matter of marriage did not contemplate yielding up its influence entirely. There is no problem in life where the young man and young woman needs the intelligent assistance of father and mother quite so much as in the selection of a life's companion. Experience, intelligence, parental love, protection and direction, will always have a place in solving the great problems of courtship. The Significance of Association A young man or a young woman can not select a suitabie life's companion unless he or she is given an opportunity to mingle freely with desirable young people of the opposite sex. Selection has no meaning for a young man unless he has a number of young women friends from whom to select his mate. Through such assoc'ation he is not only more likely to select a suitable companion but he develops an ideal of what a woman should be. No young man has this idea already created; it grows slowly when mingling with young people and while making comparisons of womanly virtues as they are expressed by the lives and conduct of his lady friends. Friendship and Courtship The significant place of friendship in the problem of courtship is hard to over-estimate. In fact, the success of  courtship depends almost entirely upon the period of friendship which precedes it. If a careful observation were made, we should discover that most successful marriages have been those which were preceded by a reasonable period of friendship. Love at first sight is not so common as it is sometimes supposed. The task before parents is not so much to dictate courtship as it is to direct in the field of friendship. If they can help their young people to find suitable friends, the question of finding lovers and sweethearts is less difficult. It is unwise and indeed unfair for parents to remain indifferent in matters of friendship and extremely rigid in matters of courtship. When real affection has developed between a young man and woman it is the more difficult to give proper advice. It is during the period of mere friendship when parents should give the necessary advice and counsel. It is easy and proper for parents to advise against improper attachments being formed, but it is difficult and sometimes unwise to attempt to sever relations when once deep affections are formed. The Problem of Isolation As parents, we feel inclined not to do anything that may be interpreted as "matchmaking." Thus, too often we leave the whole problem of selection to the mere control of chance. Our daughter becomes acquainted and forms friendships with any one who perchance comes in her way. She may be thrown into the company of an immoral man. She may be deprived of-any sort of congenial companionship because of isolation, as, for example, being reared on a ranch away from a community. She may live in a small rural community where there are very few young men to whom she is attracted and the interests and standards of these few are very different from her own. In such a case, something might properly be done to place her in a community where she can find companions and enlarge her association. She may be sent away to high school or college, or she may be permitted to find suitable employment in a neighboring community, always taking into consideration, of course, means of safeguarding her while she is away from home. Parents must be willing to make some sacrifice in order to give their sons and daughters extensive association of a wholesome character. The Home Party One of the most wholesome means of enjoyment and the best means of selecting desirable companionship for young people is the home party. This party being generally under  the direction, or at least conducted in cooperation with, the parents, maintains a dignity, refinement, and feeling of courtesy which is of great moral value. Unfortunately, public parties cannot maintain this control and consequently cannot develop the spirit of sociability to a high degree. In a home party the crowd is not so large but that every member might become acquainted with every other member of the group. This is also an invitation party which is, of course, a practical guarantee against the intrusion of men and women who are not desirable associates for one's sons and daughters. Our home should be planned in such a way as to be able to meet these social demands. It is well that we think of the home not from the standpoint of a mere shelter or a place of refuge, a place in which we eat and sleep?it is more than that; it is where we live and should therefore meet every demand of life. The young people need the home as a social center and so do the parents. Whatever can be done to promote social life within the home istelf is a direct protection against social evils and, more, it is a means of promoting wholesome association and is an essential condition to proper courtship., QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What responsibilities do parents have in relation to the courtship of the son or daughter? 2. What importance do you attach to our democratic methods of courtship? 3. What are some of the dangers of our very liberal system of permitting every one to make his own choice of a companion? 4. What is the significance of wide association for young people prior to marriage? 5. How does the ideal woman develop in the mind of a young man? 6. Why is friendship so important in connection with courtship? 7. What is the disadvantage of isolation from the standpoint of courtship and how can such difficulties be met? 8. Give the advantages of home parties as a means of providing proper association. TEACHERS' TOPIC (January, 1923) SHARING JOYS AND SORROWS "So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one g? y y y members one of another." Romans 12:5.  The misfortune of one is, in a measure, the misfortune of all. The same should be true of the good fortune of any one. Thus St. Paul admonished the Saints, "Rejoice with them that rejoice, weep with them that weep.'"?Romans 12:15. Ask the Saints to read and ponder all of this wonderful chapter of Paul's Epistle to the Romans.