VoL. XVI AUGUST, 1929 No. 8 EDITORIAL Dean Hibbard's Three Important Questions Of more than passing interest is the fact that, in this issue of the Magazine, which publishes as its literature lesson a biography of Karl G. Maeser, there appears in the "Outlook" an article entitled "Utopia College: A Prospectus," by Addison Hibbard, Dean of the College of Liberal Arts in the University of North Carolina. In the "Outlook" article the author claims that "three questions most persistently perplex mankind, most uniformly seek solution, and most directly relate to his well-being: From what past does mankind come, what is his duty and purpose in being, and what, throughout his centuries of existence, has his experience led him to think the end of existence, the good life?" Further Mr. Hibbard says, "We realize that to these questions all intelligent energy and thought are untimately directed. And around these three questions our curriculum will be built; the unity for which we shall strive will be the unity of life itself." That is, in the building of "Utopia College," such unity of life will be sought for. Any student who worked with Dr. Karl G. Maeser will  appreciate that upon these three subjects he placed chiet emphasis. For this ideal he lighted fires that burned into the souls of his students. He told his graduates that when they went out and engaged in teaching for the Church of Jesus Christ, they should put first and greatest emphasis on these three matters. We do not for an instant imagine that Mr. Hibbard would meet these problems as Karl G. Maeser met them; but it is vital to note that each recognizes the same questions as being of prime importance. Dr. Maeser's interest in man's origin was electrifying, sincere, contagious. His belief in the purpose of life made every thought and effort that did not contribute to the great and glorious purpose, trivial. His faith rendered absurd any suggestion denying man's immortality. He believed implicitly that we shall progress hereafter?that we may become perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect. To him the ultimate good was supreme. Dr. Maeser often told his students that a different type of educational institution was developing under the inspiration and blessings of the Lord. His faith in his mission led him to believe that the system of education for which he stood would be unique. Recently, Dr. Edwin D. Starbuck, formerly of Stanford University and at present of the University of Iowa, told the Latter-day Saint people that their Sunday School system more nearly reaches the ideal in its manner of training children religiously than do the Sunday Schools of other denominations. It would not be strange to Latter-day Saints if in the future their educational projects should turn out to be superior, and that they would give the world a type of college that would more nearly approach a "Utopian College" than the institutions fostered by others.