Guide Lessons For October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) BOOK OF MORMON: SOME PRELIMINARIES 1. Preview of Lesson: For the next lesson read the first fourteen chapters of the Book of Mormon?to page 32. This covers the following points: First, the visions of Lehi, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem and the commandment of the Lord for him to take his family "into the wilderness" and across the sea to the Promised Land; second, the actual. Journey as far as the Valley of Lemuel, which was "near the borders" of the Red Sea at the mouth of a river that emptied into it; third, some things that happened in this valley?the return of the four sons of Lehi to Jerusalem for the Brass Plates, their return there for the family of Ishmael, and an extended vision to Nephi in confirmation of one already given to his father. Put into a brief outline, it would be: I. Visions to Lehi. 1. Concerning Jerusalem. 2. Concerning the Promised Land. II. Journey to and Encampment in Lemuel. III. Events in the Valley of Lemuel. 1. Return of the sons to Jersualem. (a) For the Brass Plates. What these were. How they compare with our Bible. (See 13:23.) (b) For the family of Ishmael. 2. Visions in the Valley of Lemuel. (a) To Lehi, concerning the iron rod. (b) To Nephi, concerning Christ in Palestine and America. The apostate church, White colonists in America, Later developments. 2, A Look Ahead: It may be well perhaps to give here a suggestion of what the present course in the Book of Mormon is to cover, since it is to extend over the next three years. For one thing we shall read the Book of Mormon from cover to cover. That is the only way in which one can catch the spirit of the book. This will take about two years of nine lessons each,  and maybe more. During the progress of this reading we shall attempt to study the story of the Book of Mormon peoples in connection with their social, political, and religious ideas, and to ascertain the spiritual doctrines contained in the Record of the Nephites, section by section. And then we shall consider in the last year of the course, the teachings of the Book of Mormon in their relation one to another, as a system of religion, and also we shall seek to ascertain how. We may know the truth of the Book of Mormon, through internal evidences, external evidences, and the testimony of the Holy Ghost. Speaking of evidences, we ought probably to begin with the same thought with which we shall end, namely, the way in which the Book of Mormon itself advises that we find out its truth. It is in the very last chapter, verses 3-5. In order to emphasize the point it would be well to read it in the class and spend a few minutes talking about it. We have doubtless heard a great deal about the external evidences of the Nephite Record?that is, about the confirmation we have in Indian traditions, in the ruins of ancient America, and other ways. All this is good enough in its place, but we must know what that place is. No amount of study of these evidences will give us a testimony of the Book of Mormon. At best they can but confirm the testimony we may already have. There is only one way in which that testimony can come, and that is the way suggested by the book itself?through the gift of the Holy Ghost. This way gives us personal experience?the only way in which we can know anything, so as to be sure about it. 3. A Wonderful Book: Three things are to be noted under this head. The Book of Mormon is wonderful in its contents as history. It tells us of some very singular events. Some of these are such as cannot be duplicated in any other volume for their dramatic nature. And then there are some very remarkable people described there, and in such a way as to make them stand out in our minds. The Book of Mormon is a wonderful book in its teachings. The Prophet Joseph said once that the Nephite Scriptures are the "most correct" in their teachings of any in the world and that one can get nearer to God by living according to these teachings than by any other book whatsoever. And he ought to know. The doctrines of the Book of Mormon are explained in a way that can be undersfood by any one. Moreover, it contains the fulness of the gospel. The Book of Mormon also is wonderful in its spirit. Every person, as you know, has a spirit peculiar to himself. So has every home. Similarly every book emits an inflyence, because it was written by some person with an influence, The spirit of GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 449 the Book of Mormon is highly spiritual, devotional. The keynote of this spiritual volume was struck by the first Nephi when he wrote that he would set down only "the things of God" and ordered that his successors of the pen should do the same. No one can read the Book of Mormon through, believing what he reads, without experiencing a feeling of exaltation and faith in God.; 4. The Nephite Record, as we have already stated, is to be read from beginning to end. But in order that this reading shall be the easier and the more intelligent, it is necessary to keep certain things clearly in mind. The Book of Mormon is not a modern book, either in form or in content. It is a translation, not an original composition, by Joseph Smith. Its people lived ages ago?the Jaredites more than twenty-five centuries ago and the Nephites more than sixteen hundred years ago. They thought in terms of their own simple lives and civilization and culture. And the language of the Book of Mormon is the language of a young man in our own generation who had had no training at all in literary work. This fact must never be lost sight of in reading the Nephite Record. Out of this basic fact come two very important things, also to be kept in mind. One is that the form in which the Book of Mormon is cast is ancient, not modern. It begins, as you may know, with the migration of the Lehites from Jerusalem to America, and goes on to detail the history of the colonists to the year four hundred twenty-one, A. D. Toward the end of the volume we are given a brief history of a people who lived here for a thousand years before the Lehites came to America. If the Book of Mormon were a modern composition, it would most likely begin with the earlier people, and proceed in chronological order. Again, the record of the Nephites and their conflicts with the Lamanites is sometimes hard to follow by reason of the structure. The sections of the book are named from the writers of them, instead of from the nature of the subject-matter, as it would be were it a modern composition. Besides, groups of people every now and then form colonies and have their own history recorded, which, when it furnishes any material such as Nephi would think dealt sufficiently with "the things of God," are told in the general narrative. In modern dress these side-accounts would be indicated by the necessary typography. Another fact growing out of the antiquity of the Book of Mormon which must be borne in mind, lies in the nature of its contents. Its people are simple, primitive folk, not the sophisticated sort we read about in the histories of other ancient peoples. And so when we read here of kings and queens, of palaces and thrones, or of judges and courts, we must guard against reading  into these terms ideas that we have attached to similar words in the histories of European nations. Moreover, we do not have the entire history of the Book of Mormon peoples. Instead we are given the life of the nation as it bore on the main theme of the Record, which was, as you may remember, whatever brought out the "things of God." Questions 1. Suppose the head of your family should ask that you and the children go with him to, say, the interior of Africa, on foot or, at best, on animals, in the primitive fashion, and he gave as a reason that he had had a dream or vision. What would be your reaction, and the reaction of other members of the family, to this request? Consider in detail what you would be leaving, what you would be going to, the probable hardships you would endure on the way. (The Lehite women bore children on the way, including Sariah.) This will help you to realize the situation in the case of Lehi and his family. 2. Since the customs of the Book of Mormon peoples will be very important in our study, it would be a good thing to have one or two persons appointed from the class to set down from time to time, and keep a record of these, as we go along in our reading. For instance, in the present lesson we read. That the language used was Egyptian, that they lived in tents in the Valley of Lemuel, that they knew of wine and drunkenness, that metallic plates were used as records, and so on. At the end of the course, when this material will be called for, we shall have it pretty much collected and arranged. 3. Also it will be a good thing to set down the doctrinal points as we come to them. Maybe some one or two could be appointed to do this work?not the same, of course, as take care of the other. This, too, will come in handy later on. If all the members of the class will do this, so much the better. 4, What differences do you find between Nephi and Laman? Can you account for these differences? What was it that made Nephi the leader? 5. How did Nephi come to know that his father had really received a vision? Is there any other way by which he could have learned this? Why did not the other members of the family do as he did?especially Lehi's wife? 6. Read in the class the words of Nephi (3:7) about the Lord preparing a way to fulfill his commandments. What does this mean? Recall other similar cases where this has been done. GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 451 LESSON II Work and Business INTRODUCTION TO TEACHERS' TOPICS FOR 1929-30 "The grand aim of man's creation is the development of a grand character, and a grand character is by its very nature the product of a probationary discipline." In this the chief aim of our existence, this wonderful responsibility of becoming co-workers with God, is placed upon the parents. In the work of building noble character, "Their power lies in the words they use, the examples they set, and the acts they approve." ''They teach the precepts that tend to perpetuate their philosophy of life. They either emphasize these precepts or nullify them by example.'?From "Character Education in the Denver Public Schools,' Monograph No. 14. Character cannot be "talked into" boys and girls. Thoughtful and persistent means must be used from earliest childhood. The creation of favorable conditions, watch care, guidance, and example build day by day the stable qualities that enable the child to pass normally through the adolescent period into strong, responsible manhood and womanhood. "The little one begins to learn after it is born, and all that it knows greatly depends upon its environment, the influences under which it is brought up, the kindness with which it is treated, the noble example shown it, the hallowed influence of father and mother over its infant mind. The child will be largely what its environment and its parents make it."?President Joseph F. Smith. Our aim this year will be to bring to the attention of the mothers those fundamental traits of character that secure real and lasting happiness. In the inculcation of these traits we are now incurring the risk of failure. We hope to approach our task with such prayerful hearts, such faith and love, as will secure the blessings of heaven in the solution of our problems. The topics to be considered are: Upholding Church Standards, Obedience, Reverence, Courage, Patriotism, Cheerfulness, Gratitude, Courtesy, Cooperation of Parents. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in October) UPHOLDING CHURCH: STANDARDS I. Church standards are established on the rock of revelation: 1. Gospel truths are not dependent on time and place?they are always true. 452 IT.  . If the most famous doctors should say there is no harm in tobacco, we should still have the unfailing word of the Lord to the contrary. What makes adherence to Church standards difficult? 1. Community standards are no longer Church standards, 2. Little by little there is danger of slipping away from the truth. 3. If Church standards are hard for us to maintain, they are still more difficult for our children. We, having known pioneer parents, have been thrilled by their devotion to the gospel; whereas our children are living in an age of emphasis on man's material achievements. III. There is in the gospel a power that gives us the strength to IV. Do right. How shall we utilize this power for our children? 1. We must lead children to realize the importance of religion in their lives. 2. We must give instruction?must teach from infancy a love of the gospel and respect for its laws. Example: a. Showing our love for the gospel. B. Not over-emphasizing material things but imparting a proper sense of values. C. While cultivating tolerance towards others, we must not allow ourselves to weaken in our adherence to Church standards. How can we make the standards of the Church our standards? 1. Since we have the definite word of the Lord on these things there can be no excuse for any lowering of standards to meet emergencies. 2. We must keep holy the Sabbath day. 3. Observe the Word of Wisdom. 4, Maintain chastity as the pearl of life. VI. When is the time to act? 1. We must begin early and continue late entering into their lives. 2. We must really enter into the hopes, ideals, lives, of our children. 3. We must lead and permit them to enter into ours. GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 453 LESSON III ' Literature (Third Week in October) Preview of Literary Lessons for 1929-30 The nine biographies and the issues of the Magazines in which the various outlines are to be published are: 1, Karl G. Maeser, by Reinhard Maeser; August, 1929. 2. The Girl in the White Armor, by Albert Bigelow Paine; September, 1929. 3. Since An American Idyl is out of print, a further announcement will be made in relation to the October sketch. 4. A Son of the Middle Border, by Hamlin Garland; November, 1929, 5. The Lost Commander, by Mrs. Mary S. Andrews; December, 1929, 6. Noon, by Kathleen Norris; January, 1930. 7, Joaquin Miller, by himself; February, 1930, 8. Schumann-Heink, by Mary Lawton; March, 1930. 9. Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson; April, 1930. (These books may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.) This selection has been made because of the interest of the books themselves and because of the beauty of life that is found in most of them. Class leaders could very well make the assignments for the year now, in order that those who are to review the books may have plenty of time in which to read them and absorb their contents. Wherever possible the entire membership of the class should read the books. Nine books are not many to read in a season, especially when the books are as fascinating and as worth while as these are. With one or two exceptions these are all cheap books, to be had at very reasonable prices. Every library in the entire inter-mountain region might well own at least one copy oi each of these books. Fascinating as fiction, they are as valuable as the best works in literature. Some questions that reviewers should ask themselves and the authors when they are reading the books are: What has this author attempted to do? How well has he or she accomplished it? Is the feeling sound? Or is the narrative over sentimental? Oris it too cold? Are the incidents well selected to reveal the character in question? Is the language suitable? Are the words well chosen? Does the book have charm? Is the character portrayed as he or she is or was, or does the, author give only those incidents which tend to create a  pre-conceived impression? That is, does the biography state unbiased fact? Or is it propaganda in favor of the character considered? So much for the literary form of the biography. The reviewer may then turn to the character under observation and propound some questions: Is this person worth knowing? Why? Did he have something for the world the lack of which would make the world poorer? What is that something? Is he revealed in this narrative? What successes did he have which encourage us in our work? What failures did he suffer which we may avoid? Of what importance was he in his time? At present? What heritage did he leave? What characters whom you know have some of his better traits? The reviewer's problem is to reveal to her audience the character of the person under observation, especially if that audience has not read the book that is being studied. She must also be able to point out the excellencies and shortcomings of the authors, telling in what way they have been successful and in what ways they have fallen short. KARL G. MAESER By Reinhard Maeser The life of Karl G. Maeser, by his son, Reinhard Maeser, has been selected for study as the first biography of the series that will constitute this course. This selection was made because of the importance of the subject and Dr. Maeser's place in the affections of thousands of Latter-day Saints. It is such a eulogy as one would expect from a respectful son concerning his father. In this biography we behold Karl G. Maeser, the hero of a son's heart; but we catch few glimpses of Kari G. Maeser when he is not on dress parade. At the beginning of the course, a few suggestions and definitions may be in order. For instance, before we begin upon these excellent books, perhaps it would be well to tabulate a few things for which we are to be on the lookout. If "Biography presents the picture of a mind, a soul, a heart, of an environment; of successes and failure that make, or seek to make, the subject immortal", as Dr. Joseph Collins says it does, then we are to observe in the story of this life those elements which enshrined it in so many hearts. "From biography,' Dr. Collins continues, "man gets moral, physical, mental, and emotional assistance; he sees where others have failed, and why; he recognizes avoidable GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 455 obstacles and handicaps; he learns the value of health and its relation to happiness; and he is made to see that material prosperity does not always spell spiritual welfare. "He appreciates the meaning of culture and its influence on the individual and his time; he runs the gamut of emotions that are aroused by all good biographies; he suffers vicariously or enjoys objectively with the subject. His own life therefore becomes happier and more complete because of his intimate sojourn with a successful predecessor." In twenty-eight brief chapters, Reinhard Maeser, a former professor of English at Brigham Young University, has attempted to give to posterity a biography of his illustrious father; but through them all, he has revealed the fact that he was more of a historian than a biographer, after all. We see more of what Karl G. Maeser did than of what he was. The book begins with the youth and early life of Dr. Maeser as the background for his later life. It then follows the great teacher through many trials and triumphs to his selection as principal of Brigham Young Academy, the parent Church school, and thence to his new position of superintendent of schools. The later chapters contain accounts of his death and many of the expressions concerning him made by prominent people. In his narration, Reinhard Maeser has employed simple and direct, though effective language, but has not attempted to garnish up the story. The biography indicates that Dr. Maeser's life might well be divided into three periods: first, the period of preparation in the Fatherland, when, as student and teacher. He laid the foundation for his career; second, the period of growth, during which he acted as pioneer and missionary; and third, the final period, in which he became the great educator and director of educational affairs. Karl Gottfried Maeser was born January 16, 1828, in Vorbrucke, Meissen, in Saxony, Germany. His parents, believing in preparation for life's work, encouraged their children to obtain an education. Karl G. Was graduated in May, 1848, from the Normal School at Fredrichstadt. In the year 1855, a young married man with one son, he met for the first time three "Mormon" missionaries. He was soon converted. This first period of his father's life Reinhard passes over rather hurriedly, though glimpses of the character of the future great teacher are given. A long period of trouble and perplexity is then recounted till 1856, when the German school teacher and his little family emigrated to America, where all were to be tried as in a fiery furnace. Poverty and  home-sickness were combined with parental importunities to have the convert renounce the new religion and return to Germany; but Karl G. Maeser's testimony of the Gospel stood throughout his life, steadfast as the mountains looking down upon his struggles. Educated, refined, this gentleman from the culture of Germany was thrown into company of excellent though sometimes uncouth companions, who were officers in the new Church he had joined; and he soon discovered the hearts of gold beating beneath the rough exteriors. Soon after reaching Salt Lake City, the German school master opened a private school; and from that time on, except when he was filling missions, he kept constantly busy in his chosen profession. It was a "starvation period," throughout which the professor was successful in collecting barely enough to keep his family from actual want. His son has preserved for us a vivid picture of this period. "He knew," says the biographer, "what it was to be hungry; he knew what it was to shiver with his loved ones on Christmas day; he knew what it was to hear people say: 'If he's too lazy to work for his living, let him starve.' " During these dark days he received a letter from his father imploring him to return to Germany, where he could resume his position again and live comfortably; but he would not turn against his testimony. He threw the letter into the fire, thanking God once more for a testimony that enabled him to bear up under his trials. "I would rather take my wheelbarrow and go day by day among this people, collecting chips and whetstones for my pay than to have the Kingdom of Saxony open to me, if that meant sacrifice of my knowledge and testimony of the gospel." His most bitter struggles ended in 1876 when Professor Maeser, crowning his faith with glory, was called to his greatest work, that of becoming first principal of the Brigham! Young Academy, the parent Church school. When preparing to leave his home in Salt Lake City for his new home in Provo, he went to President Young for his commission. "I am about to leave for Provo, Brother Young," he said, "to start my work in the Academy. Have you any instructions to give me?" The President looked steadily forward for a few minutes, as though in deep thought, then said: "Brother Maeser, I want you to remember that you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication table without the spirit of God. That is all. God bless you. Good-bye." GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 457 Those words of the Prophet, says the biographer, were guiding principles in all of Dr. Maeser's subsequent work, becoming the means of inspiration to hundreds of young men "to become their better selves." In 1892, after sixteen years of service as principal, Dr. Maeser was released and appointed superintendent of the Church School System. During his incumbency, he organized the Religion Class work. The life of the great teacher drew sweetly yet suddenly to a close when, early in the morning of February 15, 1901, he fell asleep not to waken again in this life. Karl G. Maeser is a well written book containing much that is fine. The writer was handicapped by his reverence for his father. He has not given us, and perhaps no one could, the Karl G. Maeser who was strong enough to impress himself so deeply upon the minds and souls of those who came in contact with him. Some of the sayings of this philosophical educator have become as potent in many lives as lines from the scripture. "Relatives and debtors of great characters should not undertake to be their biographers," says Dr. Collins. Perhaps he is right; yet we have in this volume the story of a noble life nobly lived. From it we can draw inspiration and the power with which to conquer our own world. The great teacher has passed on. Hundreds knew him; other hundreds are now to know him through this book by his eldest son. Questions and Problems 1. Criticize Karl G. Maeser, by Reinhard Maeser, from a literary point of view. That is, point out the excellencies and any defects discovered in the book. Is the language effective? Does it ring true? Does it give an adequate picture of Dr. Maeser? Does it reveal the man sufficiently for him to become a potent factor in your life? Etc. 2. Name some of the traits of character that made Dr. Maeser great. 3. What part did preparation play in his life? 4. Discuss the topic: 'Fortunate is the Great Man Who Has a Great Biographer."  LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) PREVIEW OF SOCIAL SERVICE LESSONS FOR 1929-30 Social Service Lessons for 1929-30 will be as follows: The first three lessons, for October, November, and December, will be a continuation of the Child Study Course, with 'The Child: His Nature and His Needs" as the text; the subject of the six lessons that follow, covering the months from January to June inclusive, will be "The Field of Social Work.' No text will be required for these lessons, but references for outside reading will be given. Lesson 16 CHANGING OBJECTIVES IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS (Based on Part 3 of "The Child: His Nature and His Needs') Our system of compulsory education was finally established after a long discussion. The conclusion was that every person who could read, write, and calculate according to the needs of daily life, and who had learned something about religion, the founding of our government, and the principles of freedom upon which it is maintained, would make a better citizen than one who could not read or write. Those who could not read or write would have to depend upon others for information regarding the nature of our government and what it demands of every citizen in order that it may continue strong, stable, and prosperous. A question frequently arises regarding the mounting expense of our educational system. Education is more expensive than any other public enterprise. But, quoting from the author of. This chapter, M. V. O'Shea: "Do you know that the nation's tobacco bill is greater each year than its bill for elementary, high school, collegiate, and normal school education all combined? Do you know there is as much spent for candy and chewing gum as for all our educational work? And that much more is expended for automobiles and gasoline for joy riding, than is expended for school buildings, equipment, text books, teachers, health officers in schools, play grounds, and all other items of school work combined? Do you know that base ball and the threatre cost as much as our total educational bill?" Our communities need men and women trained in surgery, medicine, psychiatry, education, nursing, and all professions. If the communities assist in training those who live by charging a GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 459 price for these services, the community is better off than without such service. Thus the interest of the individual and that of the community are reciprocal, and, for the most part, mutually dependent. For the people who will not work at these highly trained professions, education lays the foundation for an understanding of the relationships that exist among all classes of people as well as for a wider and richer appreciation of nature, of literature, and of beauty available for enjoyment. An artisan who appreciates the value of his life to mankind, who appreciates the beauty and significance of his surroundings, and who evaluates his conduct in terms of the real happiness it brings him and others, is just as truly an educated man as is a doctor or lawyer. The author suggests there is more pain and unhappiness caused by failure to adapt to one another because of temperamental, moral, or aesthetic deficiencies than there is for lack of food, clothing, and shelter. He further says: "The most stable and prosperous nation is the one in which the people are the best organized and best trained in group adjustment and co-operation, rather than the one that is most prolific in material resources." The guiding aim in teaching the child to read and write should be that he may participate in what his ancestors have achieved and what his associates are now achieving, and that he may communicate his exeriences to others. A pupil should study history in order to learn the course over which the race has come, and to understand the conditions essential to the welfare of present society. He should study geography in order that he may be a citizen of the world and not simply of the street or town in which he happens to live at the moment. He should learn that human society today is bound together very closely, and that while people may be separated in space they should be very close together in spirit?that we are all one body and the conduct of one individual has its influence upon all his fellows. In the end, co-operation and altruism yield happiness; antipathy and selfishness are certain to yield pain and discontent. Questions 1. How is a community as a whole benefitted by free compulsory education? 2. Can we afford to expand our free school system downward to include nurseries and kindergartens? To include part time and adult classes? If so, how shall we pay the bill? 3. Which of the physical desires may be lessened by intellectual concentration and satisfaction? Of the following: joyriding, cigarettes, over-use of cosmetics and candy, which could be modified by reading, music, urt, and physical play, if the latter were adequately and properly taught?  4. What might be attained economically, physically, and intellectually, if the use of tobacco could be eliminated? 5. What objectives does the average parent have in mind when he sends his children through school? 6. In selecting courses of study for his child, along what lines does the parent usually reason? 7. Accepting the statement, "Man is that he may have joy," what should be the objectives in education? 8. Is vocational work in schools encouraged, or hindered by the attitude of and remarks by parents regarding their own work? Should a parent so educate a child that it will not have to work as its parents have done? 9. Criticise the following quotation: "Children should be allowed to live their lives straight out. They should not hesitate to expose their ignorance. When children are stimulated to study for fear of failure to please the teacher or parent, to get a grade or to be promoted, a subtle influence is at work producing double motives. This not only interferes with the coordination of the nervous system, resulting in ill-health, but also prevents clean thinking; and most of all it interferes with that basic sincerity which is the fundamental condition of a fine moral life." "Gitar: A Social Interpretation of Education, page 150-1. 10. (a) Do the children of your community have opportunity for training in some vocation that will enable them to take care of themselves economically and physically? (b) Is their environment sufficiently aesthetic, as to what they see and hear, to make them happy? (c) Are they being trained to improve their own surroundings in this respect? (d) Are they learning to be of service in society? (e) Are they being trained to live in peace and harmony with their associates? (f) Cite actual things taught in school that contribute to each of the above aims. There are still available about seventy-five copies of The Child: His Nature and His Needs, which will be used as a text for the Social Service lessons until the end of this year. Orders for this book should be addressed to the General Secretary's Office, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The price is $1.25, postpaid. ANNOUNCEMENT The Fall Quarter at Brigham Young University Will Begin SEPTEMBER SIXTEENTH Foundation Courses leading to all the professions are offered by a Strong Faculty in Five Colleges? College of Arts and Sciences College of Education College of Fine Arts Member of the Association of American Universities If you haven't received your 1929-30 catalogue you may obtain one by addressing: Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH Clean Foods No firm should be permitted to serve foods to the Public who fails to adhere to a rigid selling. To be able to secure meats and groceries kept and sold under strict sanitary conditions, is surely a great privilege. Every O. P. Skaggs System patron enjoys this rare protection. 0. P SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine College of Applied Science At Less thia hialt College of Commerce policy of sanitation in equipment, display, handling and This Happened in Rigby, Idaho Our salesman was in a store in Rigby, Idaho, and overheard the following conversation: "I want a can of Pork and Beans." "BLUE PINE?" "Yes, I want SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans." "Lady, you really like BLUE PINE Pork and Beans?" "The last can we bought of SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans were the best Pork and Beans we have ever eaten." Scowcroit s BLUE PINE PORK % BEANS are made from those large, Great Northern beans, cooked through and flavored with a liberal piece of fresh pork and covered with a delicious tomato sauce that we make from our own recipe, which has not been duplicated by any other packer of Pork and Beans. Another part of kitchen drudgery can now be done away with. Buy Blue Pine Pork and Beans and let the can opener reveal a wholesome, satisfying meal. Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone? Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M.  , Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Quality Training for Utah Students Fully qualified high school graduates have never been refused admission to the State's highest institution of learning? nor does the University of Utah anticipate changing this situation. However, the entrance requirements have been kept at a high standard, as has the University work, so that all students know that their credits and degrees from this institution are unquestioned anywhere in the University world. Students continue to come to The University of Utah in increased numbers, until the enrollment surpasses that of all other colleges in the State, but all qualified students will be welcomed and will receive the best the State has to offer in educational work. A broad curriculum presented by a faculty of excellent training amid truly educational surroundings is the offering to those students of the State who are interested in obtaining a University training. Registration Dates Freshmen must register September 26, and attend special instructional classes September 27 and 28. Former students and transfer students from other universities and colleges must register September 30. Regular class work starts October 1. Freshmen should send their high school credits before September 1. School of Arts and Sciences School of Medicine School of Education School of Law School of Mines and School of Business Engineering Extension Division For catalog or other information, address, The President, UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH penn: Beneficial Insurance--- and Why? NOT ONLY DO YOU RECEIVE ALL THE GUARANTEES WRITTEN IN OUR POLICIES, BUT IN ADDITION YOU SHARE IN THE PROFITS OF THE COMPANY: This Participating Insurance SOLD AT OUR OLD NON-PARTICIPATING RATES Insuring the Best there is in Life Insurance And Issued By The Big Home Compal Is your life Insurance Beneficial? Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society  HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr.