The Children's Vacation Hour Once again the Relief Society puts forth its benevolent hand on behalf of children who would otherwise be denied the benefits of a holiday. The Social Service Department, under the direction of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, director, and Miss Genevieve Thornton, supervisor, has arranged for sixty children to have a vacation in the beautiful country districts of Cache Valley. These children range in age from five to fourteen years, and have been selected because of the need they have for outdoor contacts, It is now several years since the Relief Society began this very fruitful type of social work.. It emphasizes once more the spirit of our age, which says that children must receive consideration?in many instances, the first consideration?because this ever-growing, ever-blossoming, surging civilization of which we are a part can only be pushed forward and sustained by persons of good health, good brains, wholesome impulses, and good training. These are some of the ideals the Relief Society has in bringing out from the corners the child whose life would be denied these pleasures.  These children who are to partake of the wholesome milk, fruit, and vegetables of the farm will be cared for by families in the Benson Stake. This work is being supervised by Mrs. Effie A. Greene, who is president of the Benson Stake Reliet Society. The funds for the outing were raised by Salt Lake stake Relief Societies, cooperating with the General Board. In line with this work, thirty-two children were taken to the Christmas Seal Camp of the Utah Tuberculosis Association near Brighton, where they will spend six weeks enjoying outdoor pleasures and where they will be carefully supervised as to their needs for exercise and food. They have as their chaperones a nurse and two teachers. These children, many of whom are frail and need selected food because they are undernourished, will be under the constant care and guidance of the nurse, Miss Margaret Ford, and the two teachers, Miss Margaret Sorenson and Miss Alouise Nelson. This means that practically 100 children will be made giad and will be beneficiaries of better health because of the vision of the Relief Society and the Utah Tuberculosis Association.