There are 27 members of this organization, the picture of which appears, and 26 out of the 27 are subscribing for
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 557
the Magazine. "We are happy to have the Book of Mormon for the theology lessons next season, and feel that it will help us greatly in the missionary work. Members of the various Relief Societies are planning to read the Book of Mormon during their vacation. The Kelso, Washington, Relief Society is offering a prize of a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine, to the first sister finishing the reading of the Book of Mormon."
Northern States Mission
News from still another one of our progressive missions: Sister Allie Y. Pond writes: "On July 28, we had a conference with four of our districts at Nauvoo, Illinois. It was a wonderful gathering?something I shall never forget."
Throughout this mission the benefit of the Relief Society to young mothers has been stressed.
YOUNG MOTHERS University Branch, Northern States Mission
"The enclosed picture is a photograph of the young mothers, and is evidence that the efforts of the leaders in this branch have been most successful."
Juab Stake
On June 25, 1929, with appropriate exercises in the tabernacle, the Juab stake commemorated the organization of the Relief Society. Members from all parts of the stake and General Board representatives were in attendance.
 
A movement is now actively under way to exterminate the flies in this community. The campaign is sponsored by the Juab stake Relief Society. A committee consisting of Mrs. Itha B. Parkes and Mrs. Ethel C. Gadd, has taken the responsibility of having fly traps made and sold to the citizens at a minimum cost. With the assistance of the Boy Scouts, a number of effective traps have been constructed, and it is planned to have enough to supply all the homes of the city. As an indication of the interest and support of the citizens in this movement, at the initial display of the trap, orders were given for the entire supply now ready for distribution. The campaign to rid the community of flies is meeting with gratifying cooperation from citizens in all walks of life.
Lehi Stake
On July 9, 1929, under the direction of the Lehi stake Relief Society, an enthusiastic group of sisters met at the Lehi Fifth ward chapel to celebrate the stake's first birthday. A program, excellent in drama and music, was provided. An outstanding feature of the afternoon was a history given of the Lehi Relief Society, beginning with its temporary organization in 1865, up to the present time. A cut glass vase full of choice roses was presented to eleven of the fourteen surviving members of the permanent organization, effected October 27, 1867, under the direction of Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Sarah Kimball. A color scheme of white and gold was carried out. After luncheon an exhibit of the handwork done by the Relief Society members was opened for the public.
Sunflowers By Kate Thomas
Down on West Temple just above Third South In some garage place there's a bunch of gold That gleams as fair as any pirates' hoard Grilled on the rock of any barren isle.
Sunflowers! Sunflowers! Happy yellow things Flirting with gay old Sol; bowing to his whims As lord of day and flattering his conceit, But never caring really; just glad.
There with the line of junk shops, dirty bricks, (The moulders of a city seldom know The glory of a street they let run down!) They send their broad smile through the smoke and filth.
One could not pass without an answering smile, Oh, truly, sunflowers know just where to grow.