[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 691 | Fiction | Snakes, Snails, and Puppy Dog Tails | Janice Dixon]

and Puppy
Dog
Tails

Janice Dixon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a snake emerging from a stack of books and a snail]

IT all started in the year of the grasshoppers — three years ago.

My son Charles, then three, came rushing into the house. Little did I know then that the trend had started.

"Mommy, Mommy," he called, holding a wiggling insect in his hands.

"It's a grasshopper," I told him. I put it on the ground and showed him how it could hop.

Then he discovered that there were other grasshoppers in the world. I found that there were grasshoppers in my world, too — in empty peanut butter jars, in empty fruit jars, in pop bottles, in tin cans — all collected for whatever reason little boys collect things. That summer passed, as did the grasshoppers, and my winter was peaceful. The grasshoppers were buried safely in the ground and no longer occupied window sills, toy boxes, bureau drawers, or cupboards.

With the summer came new worlds to be collected. My son was interested in everything creepy or crawly.

"I've just made some bird spaghetti," Charles announced one day.

"That's nice," I said calmly. One must always be calm around children. "What did you make the spaghetti from?" I asked. This is always dangerous — asking children questions. They are likely to tell you.

"Worms!" he said proudly. "I've got a hundred worms for the birds."

I looked at the worms, long

691

SEPTEMBER 1964

and wiggly, placed in an aluminum plate waiting for the birds. When I had disposed of all the bodies I breathed deeply, knowing that my son was growing up. I hoped for an early winter.

Christmas came and went and so did the Christmas trees — they went out of the houses and into our yard.

"I'm making a tree house," Charles explained.

Isn't that cute? I thought, seeing five or six trees piled in the backyard. "The Boy Scouts will come and take them this Saturday." I went about my work until I noticed a green column like a procession of parasol ants, headed for my back yard. It was a parade of little boys lugging and pulling on sleds — more Christmas trees. I gasped when I looked outside. It looked like a Christmas tree lot in November. I called the Scout leader to make sure the Scout troop didn't miss our house when they disposed of the trees. Then I proceeded to disband the army of solemn-faced little boys who were only following General Charles' command.

THE next summer brought the butterflies, but this was a passing phase, and only minor in comparison to the rocks.

"Look at this beautiful rock," Charles said, turning the small pebble in the sun. I was delighted that the insect collecting would soon be replaced.

His father took him to a museum and showed him the different minerals and metals, the hard rocks and the soft rocks. Something in my son's head started to turn. The next day I found a

bushel basketful of dirty rocks on my porch.

"Who put these rocks here?" I demanded.

"It's my collection," said Charles. "They're very valuable rocks."

I also found a collection of rocks in his pockets and in his shoes.

"It's just a passing phase," said his father. "It will pass like the others. I had hobbies as a boy. Every boy needs a hobby."

This sounded sensible. Sensible, that is, until I found a second bushel basketful of rocks on the porch. While I was deciding whether to have a rock garden or start whirling missiles, my doorbell rang.

A little boy, aged five, stood there, a large box in his hands. "Charles wants my rock collection," he said. "Mamma said I could share with him." As I stood with my mouth open, a troop of other small fry marched to the rock basket and distributed their contributions.

That night my husband looked at the growing rock mound and reached an immediate decision. "The rocks will have to go!"

"Can't I have any?" Charles pleaded, the tears filling his eyes.

We took a look at the rocks, then at his pleading face.

"You may select twenty-five rocks," we decided.

It was a hard decision. Each rock was more beautiful than the last one. But the next day all but twenty-five rocks were gone. They barely filled the bottom of the bushel basket.

A few days later I looked outside when I heard the familiar squeak of my son's wagon.

692

SNAKES, SNAILS, AND PUPPY DOG TAILS

"What do you have?" I queried, seeing a boulder in the wagon.

"It's just a rock for my rock collection," Charles announced. His shirt was dirty and torn. "I decided to have this one (indicating the boulder) instead of this one" (indicating a pebble).

Then I noticed his two little friends, also with dirty shirts.

"We had to dig to get this beautiful rock," Charles explained.

The three boys worked hard and finally got the rock out of the wagon and into the rock collection basket. It nearly filled the basket.

What to do now? We had given our word that he could have twenty-five rocks, but we had no idea that he would choose such large ones. I thought there weren't many large rocks around the neighborhood, but he found them all. His father objected, especially when the rocks and sticks in the collection made their way to the backyard and had to be cleared off before he dared mow the lawns.

Again I hoped for winter. This had been a hard summer. Steven, our second son, was collecting grasshoppers. I cleaned out fifteen bottles of dead grasshoppers the day the first snow fell.

WINTER came, and with it came kindergarten with all of the lovely pictures that a five-year-old can draw. I didn't mind the portrait of myself (cross-eyed and bald), but the thought of six fingers on one hand and four fingers on the other slightly unnerved me. One picture was nice, two were nice, but they kept com-

ing, one-two-three pictures a day.

"Hang them on the wall," suggested Charles, "so that everybody can see them."

I tried to throw a few away, but my son kept track of every one.

"We'll make a book of your pictures," I said, after all the walls were covered. "We'll choose only the nicest pictures to save." We threw bundles of papers away and narrowed them down to only sixty-nine pictures.

Where shall I put these? I wondered. I got a cardboard box and put them away for the time being.

Then the teacher, as a special surprise, outlined my son full-size on paper. This life-sized paper doll stared at us from the wall for several months until I suggested we save it for posterity.

SUMMER is coming. The warm air is bringing the flowers and the insects.

I was making the bed the other day when a snake slithered in front of me. It looked like a rattler. "Charles," I screamed, running out of the room and closing the door, "where did you get that snake?"

"From Jerome," he said.

"Don't touch that snake!" I ordered.

"It's only a garter snake," he explained, loftily. He picked up the snake and watched it coil and recoil.

"Why did you get a snake?" I gasped.

"To be a friend for my turtle," he answered.

"What turtle?"

"The one Jerome gave me."

I explained that the animals

693

SEPTEMBER 1964

needed fresh air or they would die.

He considered the idea thoughtfully and pulled out three more boxes of snakes from his Sunday clothes drawer and took them outside.

I was left to sort through the rest of the collection . . . butterflies, cereal trading cards, assorted sticks and clubs. Steven has now discovered the fun in collecting insects, worms, and other distasteful objects; Daniel, my third son, brought me his first grasshopper and bouquet of dandelions.

I looked over the assorted collections: rocks, insects, trading cards, pictures, schoolwork. They were all gathered with love. I couldn't throw them away, but what could I do with them?

I decided to call the person who must know the answer to my problem—my mother-in-law. She must know, she had reared a boy.

"I'll be right down," she said. "I know exactly what to do with them."

She arrived, armed with boxes. "These were my son's," she said. "I've been wondering what to do with them myself."

I looked inside. I saw rocks, insects, trading cards, pictures, schoolwork.

Then I knew what to do with Charles', Steven's, and Daniel's collections. I would save them for their wives!
