[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 660 | Fiction | Mr. Lewis and the Ravens — Part II Ilene | H. Kingsbury]

Mister Lewis and the Ravens

PART II

Ilene H. Kingsbury

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a man with raised fist in an angry gesture, surrounded by radiating lines suggesting intense emotion or shouting]

Synopsis: Mister Lewis, an "outsider," who lives in the fields adjacent to a pioneer village, has befriended a widow and her seven children during an outbreak of diptheria. The mother expresses a fervent wish that her children will care for Mister Lewis if he ever needs help.

His tormentor no longer looked beeningly about for applause for great or humorous deeds. Instead, as the boy shaded his eyes with both hands and became accustomed to the relative dusk inside, he saw the man backing into a corner with the hope of putting the pot-bellied stove between himself and a suddenly infuriated giant whose vehement anger volcanoced even before his hair came out of its till and his heels touched the floor. The bellow of protest which came forth through white teeth and black beard so startled the cracker barrel habitués that they, too, leveled their chairs and forgot to whittle.

It was incredible the volume of words, in three languages, that tumbled and rumbled from the outraged man. With cursings used only on mules, he flayed the coward who teased and taunted a sickly boy. In half-Mexican, half-Ute, he called upon all heaven and earth to destroy this cur who had no heart. After that he threw in a French word or two that were so strange to these emigrant folk who had scarcely mastered English, that they cringed at implied doom. They stepped back a respectful distance, just to be out of way should justice be thrown at them in jagged, flaming swords. In fact, so versatile was this man in expressing his wrath, that each person in the store was led to complete silence and awe. A scourge, a curse bellowed forth upon the head of one who would offend a child, let alone one whose life had recently been snatched from a diptheria-fe-

660

MR. LEWIS AND THE RAVENS

ered grave. Would that the widowed mother could strike in defense of this son who was on an errand of love. Would that his brothers could hang this uncouth rascal by his thumbs.

The tumult and rumble of violent speech reverberated. The glass chimneys which rested in a wire cage hung from the ceiling shimmered and rattled. The proprietor became anxious for his property, if not for the life of the miscreant. To this point not another word had been spoken. Most of the men searched for words to match the ones which indicted this troublesome fool slinking in the corner, but each gave up the fruitless quest.

The boy was so fascinated that he had to absorb a bit of it to realize this speech was cast forth in his defense. When that thought came, he became afraid that action would follow in which blood would flow. He felt impelled to prevent such a deed, so he called out, even to screaming, "Mister Lewis! Mister Lewis! Come here to the door!"

The blasting, thunderous tirade erased itself. The store owner, the bystanders, the offender, all leaned forward to see what would happen next. Mister Lewis, he of the violent language, swung himself about and strode to the door. The boy backed away. Mister Lewis unlocked the door, then opened it, then beckoned the boy to come on in.

WITH greater strength than he had shown heretofore, the boy obeyed the order. He came forward to the end of the counter and waited. Mister Lewis reached for the basket of eggs and shoved it toward the petrified clerk. No one moved. A daguerreotype could have been taken of that country store and its various characters as they awaited judgment day.

Mister Lewis considered himself well rid of the trivial, the inconsequential, the obnoxious, the ignorant. His very silence shocked them. His total abstinence of invective from that moment left an absence of dignity on the manure-booted prankster.

The boy reached for his basket, now emptied of eggs. In its shadows rested a small brown paper bag of "store" sugar. It bore a crayon mark of "½ lb." A typical purchase had been consummated.

Silence. No nailed heels scraping on the random width floor. No hissing on the pot-bellied stove. No clink of the crowning of kings in the corner where waged the perpetual tournament of checkers. Silence.

The boy left the store. A miracle had happened within him. Tremors, shyness, the palpitating after fever, all were displaced with the dignity of righteous indignation given him by a more experienced man. His next basket of eggs would be carried in strength and pride. From now on he believed in boys wanting to be men.

Mister Lewis also left the store. No leer of triumph, no parting blow, no glance of disdain was cast by him. He ignored the afflictor of little boys. He did not glance at loafers who enjoyed practical jokes. He touched the rim of his hat to salute good day to the proprietor. He turned to-

661

SEPTEMBER 1964

ward his fields to the west of town. As he passed some willows growing on the ditch bank, he cut one off with his pocket knife. As he walked and thought he flicked the wood against his boots.

THE small boy did not know what to think. He knew that the life of Mister Lewis was not as that of other men. Nor were his words or ways. No wonder townsmen thought him odd, even queer. The boy did not know what to do for a benefactor who failed to recognize one when they met, or whose remote abode did not invite visitors. He was almost home before he recalled his mother's reference to a far future day when Mister Lewis might need help. And then, she decreed, even if it were in fifty years, any or all of her seven children should take care of Mister Lewis. The boy thought that a whole lifetime of looking after Mister Lewis was a high price to pay for a few gallons of milk on the hoof. And after the store episode, what more did Hebe now owe Mister Lewis? It could be a burden heavier than one small boy should carry.

* * * *

LIVING is for wandering and jaunting and patrolling and straggling and gypsying. It is for going in a file in a straight course, and being whipped into line of ideas and faith and love. It is for traversing a continent, for revisiting scenes of stick-horse days, for pilgrimage and plodding, for lifting voices with a mandolin in the hands. Living is for toil and sorrow and second chances and better judgment. It is for conquering and humility and

smiling, the eyes saying yes, and shaking the head no. And sticking by it. Living is for finding cabbages and kings.

At no time had Hebe seen Mister Lewis in, say forty years, and his mother's reference to saying thank you grew dim and was quite forgotten.

Then, one morning as Hebe stood in the doorway of his business establishment, he sighted a man slouched in the shadow of the railway station across the street.

The vigor of yesterday had lessened a bit; but the vague, evasive bundle of thoughts was there as always, entertaining, exciting, and permitting the man to be the complete hermit. His eternal habit of chewing on a twig and of using a larger stick or a cane was there to identify him as surely as a thumbprint or a statistical number.

Hebe thought at first to run across the street, to grasp the man's hand in a shaking of fellowship. He lurched forward a step, then checked such an un-Mister-Lewis-like impulse. Thus, practiced, adult restraints snagged him before he got across the sidewalk. To cover the sign of indecision he turned and entered his hotel (for that was now his sedentary, prosperous business). He called to his manager to come and see who that was across the street. Yes, that's Lewis, sure enough—looking for a grubstake out to the Wah Wah Springs — thinks he has a horn silver claim that ought to make us all rich ... but who wants to gamble on old man Lewis ... might never find an ounce!

Hebe took a small notebook

662

MR. LEWIS AND THE RAVENS

from his hip pocket and started to write on it. After a bit, it appeared to be. If you had seen it—on the left side going down the margin, one saw: donkey; shovel; pick; frying pan; canned goods; blanket; chamois skin pouch with $200; rope long enough for a good diamond hitch.

On the right side he wrote, not a balancing list, but more of a memorandum: six weeks milk on the hoof; one screen door with a gate spring on it. Biblical birds—ravens, mother called them.

He tore out the page, then ripped it in half, lengthwise, down which gave him two lists. He handed his manager the left portion and said, "Fix Mister Lewis up with these things, say by sundown. I think he wants to head out into the desert to see what he can find."

He folded the right half of the page and inserted it in the back flap of his billfold. As he turned to greet a paying guest, he smiled. Across his eyes could be seen the look of a boy of seven or eight.
