[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 707 | Poem | On Seeing a Son off to School | Evalyn M. Sandberg]

On Seeing a Son off to School

Evalyn M. Sandberg

His hand leaves mine.
He saunters down the hill,
All dignity and new-found poise,
And he is only five.
He turns and waves.
Alone — and yet not quite alone.
Still held

Upon that silver strand
By which a mother claims her child.
I would not have him walk alone;
Yet walk alone he must.
Dear God in heaven:
Regard my child.
Do keep him in thy trust.

707

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 59 "Every Man Seeking the Interest
of His Neighbor . . ." (D&C 82:19)

For First Meeting, December 1964

Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the
love of our neighbors, our actions must show
genuine interest in and concern for others.

INTEREST in, concern for, and service to others form the foundation of the good Christian life. Throughout his ministry the Savior emphasized that the greatest joy and happiness come to those who center their lives on love and service to others. Jesus said: "This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you" (John 15:12). Interest in, concern for, and service to others is the only genuine manifestation of true love.

One of the best known and most dramatic examples of love and concern for a neighbor is the Savior's story of the good Samaritan. Unlike others who had passed by the wounded man without helping him, the Samaritan bound up his wound, provided needed medicine and took him to an inn for further care. His compassion prompted the Savior to ask the question, "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him?" (See Luke 10:30-37.)

Without doubt the best way to show our love to our Father in heaven and to deserve his blessings is to love and serve one another. Real joy, accomplishments, and personal success come through selfless service. Someone has said: "Man becomes successful and great exactly in the degree to which he works for the welfare of his fellow men." The emphasis in this thought is on work and deeds. Love without manifestation does not feed the heart any more than a locked bread box feeds the body.

The importance of deeds rather than mere thoughts or prayers on behalf of our neighbors is beautifully illustrated in the following poem:

I knelt to pray as day began
And prayed, "O God bless every man."
Lift from each weary heart some pain
And let the sick be well again.
And then I rose to meet the day
And thoughtlessly went on my way;
I took no steps to ease the load
Of hard-pressed travelers on the road.

708

LESSON DEPARTMENT

I didn't even go to see
The sick friend who lives next door
To me;
But then again when day was done
I prayed, "O God, bless every one."
But as I prayed a voice rang clear
Instructing me to think and hear,
"Consult your own heart ere you
pray:
What good have you performed to-
day?
God's choicest blessings are bestowed
On those who help him bear the load."
(Anonymous)

In our modern complex world
we are growing more and more
interdependent. As our lives be-
come more specialized we depend
to an increasing extent upon the
services performed by others.
Consequently, we must take in-
terest in each other. We need
each other and need the assur-
ance and feeling of security that
come with being needed. We all
hunger for the heartfelt and true
concern of our friends and neigh-
bors.

Manifesting a sincere interest
in the welfare of others means
more than giving worldly goods.
When we have a real concern for

another, we seek to build him up
in his own eyes and to make him
feel he is important and needed.
We encourage him to noble en-
deavor, and constantly assure
him of our confidence in him and
of our friendship. Someone has
said, "there are more people in
this world hungering for kind-
ness, sympathy, comradeship,
and love, than are hungering for
bread." Remember the Spirit.

Let us resolve today to speak
the kind word, write the note of
appreciation, offer commenda-
tion for some worthy thing well
done, and give recognition and
approval to the efforts of others.
Countless opportunities are pres-
ent every day to show our neigh-
bor that we have interest and
concern for his well-being.

"I shall pass this way but
once; any good thing therefore
that I can do, or any kindness
that I can show, let me do it now.
Let me not defer it or neglect it,
for I shall not pass this way
again" (Anonymous).
