[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 668 | Special Feature | Singing Mothers Concerts at the New York World's Fair Marianne | C. Sharp]

Singing Mothers Concerts
at the
New York World's Fair

June 24 and 25, 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

I could believe that angel choirs joined with the Singing Mothers, the music was so glorious," so spoke one of the audience at the fourth and final Singing Mothers concert at the New York World's Fair.

The four concerts at the World's Fair Pavilion, across the street from the Mormon Pavilion, on June 24 and 25, were well attended, with many crowding in the back. A standing ovation and cries of "Bravo" were given the chorus at the conclusion of each concert. Those in charge of the activity acknowledged the goodness of the Lord as to the fair weather, the great numbers of Fair visitors who were attracted to the concerts, and the opportunity to acquaint strangers with this great cultural activity of Relief Society.

The months of planning, hours of traveling, and days of rehearsals were brought to full fruition at the concerts themselves. "By their fruits ye shall know them," was truly demonstrated. The spirit at the concerts was one of devotion and a forgetfulness of self for the glory of the whole. The dedication to this service began in March when Sister Ellen N. Barnes (Mrs. Maurice R.), director of the Washington Stake Singing Mothers chorus and a concert pianist of note, was called by the General Presidency of Relief Society to take charge of a proposed presentation of a combined Singing Mothers chorus at the World's Fair in June. Sister Barnes proposed a program which included two numbers, one of which Sister Florence J. Madsen, chairman of the General Board music committee, had composed, and the

668

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Relief Society Presidency and Chorus Conductors at the World's Fair

Left to right: Florence J. Madsen, Chairman of the General Board Music Committee; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; Ellen N. Barnes, Conductor of the Singing Mothers Chorus at the World's Fair.

other of which Sister Madsen had made the arrangement. These two numbers were conducted by Sister Madsen in her masterly way at the World's Fair concerts.

Sister Barnes chose to present a sacred concert, including some patriotic numbers. Outstanding soloists of the selected Eastern Stakes gave of their great talents. The harpist, violinist, and accompanist were superb. For thirteen weeks Sister Barnes left her Washington home on Monday and during the week trained the selected Singing Mothers of the Washington, Potomac, Philadelphia, New Jersey, New York, and Boston stakes in their own centers. At the end of May the Washington and Potomac choruses were rehearsed together and also the New York-New Jersey choruses. The latter two had been invited to present some selections on May 8 at the Rainbow Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee, Inc., at the Waldorf-Astoria.

The first time the entire chorus was assembled was at the Manhattan ward in New York the day just previous to the first World's Fair concerts. The exacting and accomplished musicianship of Sister Barnes was demonstrated in the way the six choruses melted into a whole. Part of the time of the day's rehearsal, moreover, was spent in arranging for the staging of the production at the World's Fair.

669

SEPTEMBER 1964

As the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, in 1842, that Relief Society would receive instructions through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in these latter days, so with this great undertaking.

The First Presidency granted permission at the outset for Relief Society to present these concerts, and Sister Spafford, who is a member of the Women's Advisory Council of the World's Fair, was told to work under the direction of Elder Harold B. Lee, Chairman of the Church World's Fair Committee and an advisor to Relief Society. The plans were matured under Elder Lee's direction. Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker attended the auditions of the singers with Sister Barnes and acted as General Board coordinator throughout. President G. Stanley McAllister of New York Stake was appointed by Elder Lee to act as the general overseer and eastern representative of the activity, and President George H. Mortimer of the New Jersey Stake assisted with bus travel and housing arrangements at a new Howard Johnson Motel. Devoted Latter-day Saint men of affairs and others in key positions lent every assistance in arranging for the presentation at the Fair, for recordings to go over WRUL, the production, the decor of the World's Fair Pavilion, medical, and protocol service. President Bernard P. Brockbank, in charge of the Mormon Pavilion, extended every courtesy and directed the missionaries at the Fair as they assisted at the concerts.

The General Presidency of Relief Society gave a luncheon in the Williamsburg Salons at the Better Living Center for distinguished non-Latter-day Saint and Latter-day Saint women leaders, including Eastern Relief Society leaders. Sister Nathan Eldon Tanner accompanied President Tanner of the First Presidency, who was sent by President McKay to represent the First Presidency. Sister Harold B. Lee accompanied Elder Lee. Sister Henry D. Moyle also traveled to New York for the occasion. The special luncheon guests toured the Mormon Pavilion before attending the first concert. Preliminary to each concert, President Spafford made short introductory remarks explaining who the singers were and speaking of the Relief Society. Preliminary to the first concert, President Tanner gave his blessing to the singers and conveyed the blessing and love of President McKay who would like very much to have attended. This was a support and comfort to the conductors and singers. Elder Lee delivered the invocation before the audience at the first concert and prayers before other concerts were given by President Wilbur Wallace Cox of Boston Stake, and President Bryan F. West of the Philadelphia Stake.

It is not surprising that with such planning and support, and with the dedication and righteousness of the lives of the Singing Mothers, that the concerts were beautiful and successful beyond the fondest hopes of all who participated. Everyone who assisted did so in a humble, modest manner. The praise in the press and from those workers who were attached to the World's Fair Pavilion attest to the high purpose and propriety of the undertaking.

A woman on a plane was heard to declare that she had heard 300

670

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Singing Mothers Chorus at the New York World's Fair
June 24-25, 1964

Mormon mothers sing and that they sang like angels. This comparison was heard on numerous occasions.

Special praise is due President Spafford for envisioning the undertaking, and to Sister Florence W. Madsen for her part in promoting Singing Mother concerts of the past and for her special participation at these concerts; to Director Ellen N. Barnes for her humble spirit and the dedication of her great talent in training the Singing Mothers for the glorious success of the concerts; and the devotion, forgetfulness of self, and love for Relief Society and each other which characterized the Singing Mothers. Everyone felt it was a wonderful privilege to have had any part in this missionary endeavor.

Truly the Lord smiled on this great Relief Society undertaking.

Note: The next eighteen pages contain information on the history of Relief Society which made up a brochure which was given to visitors at the Singing Mothers concerts at the World's Fair.

671

[PHOTOGRAPH]

The First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
President Hugh B. Brown    President David O. McKay    President N. Eldon Tanner

[PHOTOGRAPH]

The General Presidency of Relief Society
President Belle S. Spafford
Counselor Marianne C. Sharp.     Counselor Louise W. Madsen

673

[PAINTING BY ALVIN GITTINS]                    [PAINTING BY FRANCIS R. MAGLEBY]

The Prophet Joseph Smith 1805-1844                        Nauvoo, Illinois, 1844

The Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is probably the oldest national woman's organization in the United States which has persisted.

It was organized on March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo, Illinois, with eighteen members. The Prophet Joseph Smith founded it and declared to the members:

... I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads.

674

[ILLUSTRATION: Plate Design From an Old Etching - showing a circular plate with decorative border depicting a meeting scene with people gathered in a room, labeled "First Relief Society Meeting Nauvoo, March 17, 1842"]

J. M. HESLOP

Plate Design From an Old Etching

From that time when the key was turned for women, has come the great advancement of womankind over the face of the earth. From the eighteen members in 1842, the Society today has grown to over a quarter of a million members residing in every state in the United States and in fifty-one other countries.

Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1842, was situated on the broad Mississippi, near the frontier of America. On the brow of the hill a temple was rising through the sacrifice of the men and women of the Church. Relief Society began its humanitarian services amid scenes of hardship and courage. Emigrants, converts to the Church from the

675

Eastern United States and England, poured into Nauvoo by the hundreds, and during the first year of Relief Society's existence, hundreds were kept from freezing and starvation by the good offices of the Relief Society.

In 1843, a service of visiting teaching was started by which Relief Society members in pairs visited every home, collecting from those who had means and alleviating the suffering of the poor thereby. The program began with sixteen visiting teachers. In 1963 there were 113,680 visiting teachers, who made 4,325,341 visits and kept a monthly watchcare over the mothers in the homes, although the needed assistance in a material

Portraying Visiting Teaching in the Early Days
J. M. HESLOP

[PHOTOGRAPH: Two women in period dress (approximately mid-1800s) standing at a wooden door. One woman wears a dark dress with a bonnet, the other wears a red and white checkered dress with a matching bonnet. They are carrying woven baskets and appear to be making a home visit.]

way is supplied today through the great Church Welfare Program. To this Program Relief Society gives vital sewing, canning, and other services. The visits to mothers of families in need are made by Relief Society local presidents (there are over 5,000 local Relief Societies) under the direction of the Priesthood leaders of the Church units.

On June 30, 1843 at Nauvoo, the first Secretary, Eliza R. Snow, wrote: "More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipations predicted, and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future?"

Relief Society Women Canning for the Church Welfare Program

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[ILLUSTRATION: Relief Society Deseret Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1884-1895]

The "sanguine anticipations" were adequately realized in the year 1963. The loving tender ministrations of Relief Society members are revealed in this tabulation:

Visits to the sick and homebound ..............390,566
8-hour days care of the sick ...................... 32,666
Hours of other compassionate services ....596,349

Nursing the sick was of early concern to Relief Society members. In pioneer days in Utah, Brigham Young sent Relief Society members east to attend medical school. Upon their return they conducted classes in midwifery and nursing. Today Relief Society

678

enlists women to go into the nursing field, and encourages mothers to have their daughters enter into the four year college curriculum, the three year, and also the practical nurse field.

Women members of the Church were given the religious vote from the time the Church was organized in 1830. The pioneer women in Utah were given the elective franchise shortly after the women of Wyoming were granted it; however, since an election was held in Utah before one in Wyoming, a Mormon woman, Seraph Young, a niece of Brigham Young, had the honor of being the first woman in the United States to cast a ballot. This was on February 21, 1870.

Caring for the Sick

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[MAP: World map showing distribution of Relief Society missions (black dots), stakes (red dots), and Relief Society headquarters (blue star)]

Distribution of 262,000 Relief Society Members

The Relief Society accomplishes the work given to the women of the Church. New Relief Society units are organized throughout the world as the Church enlarges its borders. Once a year a Relief Society general conference is held in Salt Lake City, Utah, with 10,000 Relief Society leaders in attendance from over the world. Once a year Relief Society General Board members journey to all of the stakes which are now located in Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, Canada, England, Scotland, Samoa, West Germany, Berlin, Switzerland, and in the states of the United States to hold day-long meetings with the Relief Society leaders. Guidance is given in the two-fold program of Relief Society — welfare and education.

680

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Relief Society Work Meeting Activities

The welfare work consists (in addition to humane alleviation of material and spiritual want, illness, and bereavement) of homemaking programs, both theoretical and practical. Once a month a "work meeting" is held at which instruction on better ways of housekeeping and homemaking are discussed and practical assistance and demonstrations are provided in cooking, sewing, and all other types of handicrafts. The planning for this meeting throughout the 5,000 organizations is left to the individual Society, but stimulation and suggestions are provided by the General Board. In 1963 there were completed in the work meetings 687,091 sewed articles, and 367,803 non-sewed articles.

681

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Susan B. Anthony (center) With Relief Society Leaders, 1895

Susan B. Anthony, the great national suffragist leader, was a friend of the Mormon women. In 1888 Mormon leaders were invited to attend a great congress of women called in Washington, D. C. The Relief Society sent representatives and Relief Society became a charter member of the National Council of Women of the United States and thus participates in the International Council of Women.

The education year with weekly meetings is on an eight-month basis. Courses are given in rotation for the eight months in the fields of theology, literature, and

682

social science. These adult classes stress the importance of class participation. These courses are written by experts in their fields under the direction of General Board committees. The purposes of Relief Society which they tend to accomplish are:

To manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of woman's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the gospel.

A Weekly Education Meeting

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Singing Mothers Chorus in the Salt Lake Tabernacle]

LORRY RYTTING

Singing Mothers Chorus in the Salt Lake Tabernacle

Singing has ever been in the hearts of Relief Society members, whether they were crooning to their babies in a wagon box, in a log cabin, or in a split-level home today. Singing Mother choruses are located in every stake. In 1963 there were 41,865 Singing Mothers of Relief Society. Concerts are held periodically in some localities, music is furnished for funerals, and choruses render music at small and large Church gatherings. An International Singing Mothers Chorus, made up of a few

684

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Representatives of Relief Society of the Nations at Dedication of the Relief Society Building, 1956

Relief Society Singing Mothers from Utah, combined with Relief Society members of the British Isles, made a tour in 1961 in the British Isles.

On June 24 and 25, 1964, two Singing Mother concerts, composed of Singing Mothers of the Washington, Potomac, Philadelphia, New Jersey, New York, and Boston Stakes, are being held each day in the Pavilion at the New York World's Fair.

685

Under the tutelage of President Brigham Young a woman's periodical was begun in 1872, whose banner read "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations." This periodical became The Relief Society Magazine in 1914. All the Relief Society courses of study appear in this periodical as well as instruction from Church and Relief Society leaders and the creative writings of women. It now has a circulation of over 220,000, and is a binding force in welding the Relief Society members together. Articles from The Relief Society Magazine are translated into the different languages and appear in the foreign Relief Society mission publications.

In Salt Lake City, Utah, across the street from Salt Lake Temple Square, is situated The Relief Society Building, the headquarters of Relief Society. Over half

Relief Society Periodicals of Many Lands

[PHOTOGRAPH: Collection of various Relief Society periodicals and magazines from different countries and languages, including titles visible such as "VOICE", "Varit eget blad", "SOCIEDADE", and other publications in different scripts and languages, arranged in an overlapping display]

a million dollars were contributed by Relief Society members in the one year October 1947—October 1948. This amount was matched by Church funds and the building site was allocated to Relief Society. Gifts from Relief Societies throughout the world adorn it.

The interest in present-day activities of vital concern to women everywhere is nurtured in Relief Society. On a national basis support is given to the great national health programs through the pages of The Relief Society Magazine, and, through the personal attention of President Belle S. Spafford, contacts are kept with such worthwhile programs as the American Mothers Committee, and Practical Nursing, and the affiliation continues with the National Council of Women of the United States.

Relief Society Headquarters, Salt Lake City, Utah

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Main Lounge, Relief Society Building                                J. M. HESLOP

The names of the great leaders of Relief Society are indelibly imprinted upon the progress of women throughout the world. Woman's advancement has come since the day in 1842 when the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women in this last dispensation. The restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ has restored to woman on earth her true place in the eternal plan. Relief Society is an ensign to women in the world. If there is anything "virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy," the members of Relief Society seek after those things.


688

[PHOTOGRAPH: Display of decorative items including an ornate floral vase or urn and embroidered textiles]

Gifts, Representing Handiwork of Varied Cultures, on Display in the Relief Society Building

[PHOTOGRAPH: Display featuring a large woven circular basket, traditional dolls in colorful dress, small wooden looms, and various handcraft items arranged on a surface]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Mrs. Hannah Adelina Johnson Nyquist, Weiser, Idaho, has found much happiness in her handicraft accomplishments. She has made dozens of beautifully designed knitted and crocheted afghans, and many colorful crocheted and braided rugs. Her afghans are patterned in both striped and block designs, many of them original with Sister Nyquist. She has an exacting and harmonious sense of color combinations and uses advantageously color contrasts, as well as various shades of the same color to make her work attractive and artistic. She is generous with gifts of her handwork to her family and friends, and particularly to her ward Relief Society for their bazaars.

Now nearly ninety-eight years old, Sister Nyquist was born in Enkotang, Sweden, and joined the Church as a girl in her native land. She came to Utah in 1889 and lived for many years in Cache Valley. She is mother to eight children, grandmother to fourteen, and has several great-grandchildren. She keeps house for herself and a son, and that, she says, keeps her busy and happy.

690

Snakes,
Snails,
