[Vol51 | September 1964 | Page 708 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher MeCshsraisgtei n e— H ." E vReorbyi ns Moan n Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor . . . ." | ]

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 59 "Every Man Seeking the Interest
of His Neighbor . . ." (D&C 82:19)

For First Meeting, December 1964

Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the
love of our neighbors, our actions must show
genuine interest in and concern for others.

INTEREST in, concern for, and service to others form the foundation of the good Christian life. Throughout his ministry the Savior emphasized that the greatest joy and happiness come to those who center their lives on love and service to others. Jesus said: "This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you" (John 15:12). Interest in, concern for, and service to others is the only genuine manifestation of true love.

One of the best known and most dramatic examples of love and concern for a neighbor is the Savior's story of the good Samaritan. Unlike others who had passed by the wounded man without helping him, the Samaritan bound up his wound, provided needed medicine and took him to an inn for further care. His compassion prompted the Savior to ask the question, "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him?" (See Luke 10:30-37.)

Without doubt the best way to show our love to our Father in heaven and to deserve his blessings is to love and serve one another. Real joy, accomplishments, and personal success come through selfless service. Someone has said: "Man becomes successful and great exactly in the degree to which he works for the welfare of his fellow men." The emphasis in this thought is on work and deeds. Love without manifestation does not feed the heart any more than a locked bread box feeds the body.

The importance of deeds rather than mere thoughts or prayers on behalf of our neighbors is beautifully illustrated in the following poem:

I knelt to pray as day began
And prayed, "O God bless every man."
Lift from each weary heart some pain
And let the sick be well again.
And then I rose to meet the day
And thoughtlessly went on my way;
I took no steps to ease the load
Of hard-pressed travelers on the road.

708
