the spinning wheel and the loom. In September 1851, John Taylor wrote: A larger company of woolen manufacturers will come from France next season, bringing with them all necessary machinery and the best of sheep, all of which are necessary. In 1849, there was established a carding machine on Mill Creek. The first rolls, made by Amasa Russell on this machine, were spun into yarn by women and woven into cloth on the old hand looms. In March 1851, the Territorial Legislature appropriated two thousand dollars for the benefit of the woolen mills which, the next year, turned out flannels, linseys, jeans, and yarn for knitting. It is said that Russell's Mill, the machinery for which was brought to Utah by Brigham Young, was the first woolen mill on the Pacific slope. Another woolen mill was established at West Jordan in April 1853, as reported in The Deseret News. The decade of the fifties saw considerable progress in the development of the wool industry due to the mill facilities. 'The machinery for these mills was often conveyed by ox teams to its destination. The wool industry has always been of immense importance to the people of Utah, from the days when our pioneer grandmothers patiently retraced the path taken by the herd and carefully picked from the bushes the precious bits of wool left by the sheep in passing. In the consideration of the textile industries of Utah, one is impressed with the variety and excellence of the articles that were manufactured. They met the needs of the people and served them well. They were an example of the co-operative efforts of our pioneers resulting in real functioning power. That spirit will never die. It set the standard for all time and its message is as clear today as it was one hundred years ago. Far more than a great commercial need was met. It was the expression of real co-operation with a great social and spiritual background. It was the voice of a people crying in the words of the old folk school leader: "Of myself I am nothing all that I have all that I am, I owe to God and to my fellow men." Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. D. & C. 58:27-28.