[Vol41 | June 1954 | Sequence: 21 | Category: General Feature | Title: First Ladies of Our Land — Wives of the Presidents — Part IV | Author: Elsie C. Carroll]
First Ladies of Our Land
WIVES OF THE PRESIDENTS
Part IV
Elsie C. Carroll

EFORE Ida Saxton McKinley (1847-1907), wife of the twenty-fifth President, (1897- 1901), chose Wilham McKinley from among her many suitors, she had graduated from college, had a trip to Europe, and had been a successful cashier in her father's bank. To their friends the McKinleys seemed unusually blessed with good fortune and {, viness. Her father gave them a home for a wedding present; William was rapidly making a name in the political world; Ida was a leader in the social life of their community. But one loss after another of loved ones—her mother and two little daughters—caused an_ illness which left Mrs. McKinley an invalid» the rest of her life, Site 'retained her charm and _ personality, however, which kept her friends and, above all, the devotion of her husband. He had many speaking engagements, but he took her with him whenever possible, even though she could not walk except with a cane and the help of another person. During his two terms as Governor of Ohio they lived in a hotel near the Capitol. Each morning as he neared the building, he turned to the window of the hotel where she was watching and lifted his hat. Each afternoon at three o'clock he left whatever he was doing and went to the window of his office and waved a handkerchief to her as

~ ~— Pac i 4 y ~

IDA SAXTON McKINLEY
(1847 - 1907)

she waited for his signal of remembrance. 'This gallantry continued when he became President. He ignored some former customs. For instance, she always sat at his right at state dinners, and at receptions he stood behind her chair with his hand on her shoulder. Her invalidism did not curtail the life in the White House. 'They entertaincd extensively. She went with the President to Buffalo in 1901 to attend the PanAmerican Exposition. While holding a reception in the Temple of Music, tragedy came to William McKinley. Part of the ceremonies were over and he had sent Ida to

FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND

rest at the home of their host, when he was shot by an assassin. He said to his secretary, "My wife, be careful how you tell her." Six days later he died with his arm about hex as she knelt at his bedside, whispering "I want to go, too." She lived six years after her husband's death.

Edith Kermit Carow Roosevelt (1861 - 1948) was 'Theodore's second wife. Alice Lee (whom he married in 1880) had died four years after her marriage and had left 'Veddy a little daughter, to be known later as "Princess Alice." Fle martied Edith in London in 1886 and brought her back to his lovely home at Oyster Bay, where they lived happily as one after the other of their five children came. After Roosevelt became President (in 1901), the same comradeship between the parents and the children continued. Both he and Edith reserved some time each day for family life. It is said that Edith was a mother until after breakfast, the family's favorite meal; then she walked in the garden with her husband before he went to his office; then did household supervising, and by 1:45 was ready to be First Lady. She was the first mistress of the Executive Mansion to employ a social secretary. 'lo further conserve her time, she divided the people she needed to entertain into groups who would be congenial because of their positions or experiences. 'These things, together with her natural tact and charm, made all White House functions delightful. The Roosevelts spent all his salary on entertainment. Edith had a caterer under contract to serve all state dinners for eight dollars a

' 375

plate. 'This relieved her of many details for each event.

* During this administration the White. House was enlarged to -provide offices and guest rooms. After that, the mansion was' seldom without guests. A striking social event was the marriage of "Princess Alice. Gardeners worked for months on the decorations. A thousand guests witnessed the marriage. Characteristic of the ease and poise of the First Lady, is-the story that she spent the morning before the noontime wedding knitiing and" visiting with Alice's maternal grandmother. With similar ease she made welcome unexpected guests her husband was in the habit of bringing to dinner when other guests—often clignitaries—were present. Both she and the President had the knack of making all their guests share happily in the conversation.

EDITH CAROW ROOSEVELT
(1861-1948)

376

HELEN HERRON TAFT
(1862 - 1943)

The Roosevelt family all enjoyed the White House—formal occasions as well as pillow-fights or races down the long hall. Their slogan was "'one for all and all for one." The second term of 'Theodore Roosevelt ended in 1909.

Helen Herron Taft (1862 - 1943) had a keen sense of humor and a love of adventure. When _ life seemed dull, she made: something happen to liven it up. She thought it would be fun to have a salon like famous French women used to have, where they gathered into their parlors people of wit and talent for good conversation. William Howard 'Taft was invited to her salon. Later he intimated that she had other than intellectual motives for her gatherings. They were married in June 1886 and took a trip around the world for their honeymoon. Settled, in Cincinnati, Helen continued her varied

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954

activities. One was the organization of the Civic Orchestra. In igoo Mr. Taft was sent to establish civil government in the Philippines, just ceded to the United States. When they arrived in Japan they were informed that they were to have an audience the next day with the Emperor and Empress. Helen had no dress acceptable for such an occasion, but she found an Oniental seamstress who made over an evening gown for the ritual. Between fittings, Helen practiced the low bow prescribed by Japanese etiquette. She appeared at court as if she had spent months preparing for the event. As First Lady of the Philippines, she endeared herself to the natives by making them feel that America was their friendly guardian. 'They came by thousands to her weekly "at home," where she pleased them by serving little Japanese cakes her native cook baked for her.

Mrs. 'Taft was a great aid to her husband in the many important positions he held before he became President and was a distinctive First Lady during his administration (1909-1913). She fostered several significant projects. One was the erection of the bandstand in Potomac Park. On the opening day thousands thronged to hear the concert by the Marine Band. Regular concerts have been given there ever since. It was she who thought of having cherry trees in the park, and it was doubtless through her influence that the gift of a thousand cherry trees came from Japan. So, to her, the thousands who enjoy the Washington cherry festival every eae can be grateful. William

FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND

Howard Taft died in 1930 and Helen died in 1943.

Ellen Axson Wilson (1860-1914) first wife of Woodrow Wilson, gave up her career as an artist when she married in June 1885. She felt that her career was to help her husband succeed in his, and that she did, perhaps more than even they realized. Her warm southern friendliness was a good balance for his rather cold, retiring nature. While he was a teacher at Bryn Mawr and _ later President of Princeton University, she smoothed the way for him through the policies and jealousies of faculty life. It was the same when he actively engaged in political affairs. She strove always to keep him fit and to provide a comfortable and peaceful home life. In the Executive Mansion after he became President (in 1913), her chief concern continued to be for him. She denied herself many experiences which she would have en-.

3

ELLEN AXSON WILSON

ov joyed because of his needs and inclinations. She felt that the President should be a leader of the people, and she put all her power into his work. And she was ever at hand to encourage and help him. She found time to follow some interests of her own, however. One was work for underprivileged people. She served on the Board of Charities in Washington and worked for the passage of a tenement bill. It is said that just before her death she whispered that she would be happier if she knew the bill had been passed. Her husband got this word to Congress, and assurance that this would be done reached her before she became unconscious. One commentator said: "Her work was left to her husband. She gave him the idealism which marked his career."

Woodrow Wilson's second wife, Edith Bolling Galt, whom he married in 1915, was the daughter of William Holcombe Bolling, lawyer and judge, and Sallie White Bolling, both members of old, aristocratic Virginia families. At the time of her marriage to Woodrow Wilson, Edith Galt was a young widow successfully managing a jewelry business in Washington. A woman of education, beauty, and culture, she contributed significantly to President Wilson's welfare and success. She stood by him during those trying and anxious days preliminary to and during the first World War. One biographer wrote: "The man who loved peace more than_aitything else in the world rose at fourthirty in the mornings to get at the

378

Prom the Guenthe Portrait

EDITH BOLLING WILSON

work of making war." He believed that he was working for the war that would end all wars. After the war, Mrs. Wilson accompanied the President on two trips to Europe, in planning for the peace. On his return home, President Wilson sought to win American support for the League of Nations. He was ill when he started on a strenuous speaking tour and collapsed after making a speech in Pueblo, Colorado. Mrs. Wilson, with the help of secretaries, carried on the work of the President's office. She acted as executive secretary, advisor, nurse, and as an unfailing and inspirational companion. 'The Wilsons left the White House in 1921, and three years later Edith Galt Wilson became a widow. She still resides in the national Capital, and many sincere friends of former days and many officials of

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954

our present government are numbered among those who visit in her home and who regard Edith Wilson as a woman whose mind and heart and whose lovely and sympathetic personality not only contributed much to the eminence of her husband, but have made of her a personality greatly loved and admired, and respected for her faith in the destiny of America in world leadership.

Florence Kling Harding (1860 - 1924) was a loyal and gifted helpmate. In fact one observer said: "If there had been no Florence to spur his ambition, Warren Harding would not have been President of the United States." Florence was trained in business by her banker father, who wanted her to have a musical career. She was married at eighteen and soon became a widow. Her father objected to her second marriage, which was solemnized July 8, 1891. Her unusual business ability was a great asset to her husband, a struggling editor. It is said that largely through Florence the Marion Star changed from an unknown newssheet to an important newspaper, and that she also helped the editor grow into a leading citizen. She assisted him in his political climb when he entered politics. His fatherin-law, then reconciled to the marriage, urged Warren to give up politics, but Florence urged him just as strongly to keep on, and worked to help make him a Senator, then President. He was a handsome, likable man, but he lacked some of the qualities essential to strong leadership, and he put too much trust in friends

FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND

379

who were not reliable. His was a him while she was reading aloud to difficult administration, with reconhim" (August 2, 1923). Struction and internal problems too — great for adequate solution. _President Harding's wife stood helpfully by him on all occasions. Social life in the White House, which had been abandoned because of the illness of President Wilson, was resumed. At a May Day reception Mrs. Harding shook hands with seven thousand persons, which left her own hand so swollen her glove had to be cut from it. She was interested in welfare work, in the schools, and in Girl Scout activities. In the midst of all of Warren Harding's difficulties, his devoted wife was always beside him, even to the last scene "when death touched

FLORENCE KLING HARDING