[Vol41 | June 1954 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: 348 Elder George Q. Morris Fills Vacancy in Quorum of the Twelve Alma Sonne]
EDITORIAL 
VOL.  41 
JUNE  1954 
NO.  6 
cJhe  i2Jfth  J^nnuai  (church   L^onf^ 
AS  ancient  Israel  ascended  to  Je- 
rusalem yearly  to  celebrate  the 
Feast  of  the  Passover,  so  modern 
Israel,  twice  yearly,  travels  to  the 
tops  of  the  moimtains  to  partake 
each  time  of  three  days  of  a  spiritual 
feast. 
An  enlightening  and  joyful  spirit, 
permeated  by  a  deep  sense  of  peace, 
characterized  all  sessions  of  the  one 
hundred  twenty-fourth  annual  con- 
ference of  the  Church  held  on  April 
4-6,  1954.  It  was  with  reluctance 
that  the  assembled  congregation  dis- 
persed at  the  concluding  session. 
For  three  days  they  had  partaken  of 
the  bread  of  life.  As  they  were  ad- 
monished, warned,  encouraged,  and 
uplifted  by  their  prophet,  President 
David  O.  McKay,  and  by  the  words 
of  those  others  who  have  been 
called  of  God  to  devote  their  time 
to  his  service  in  behalf  of  their  fel- 
low men,  high  resolves  to  live  the 
gospel  more  fully  and  thus  surely 
to  earn  eternal  life  found  lodgment 
in  the  hearts  of  the  saints. 
Latter-day  Saints  sustained  whole- 
heartedly the  appointment  of  Elder 
George  Q.  Morris  to  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  to  fill  the  vacancy  oc- 
casioned by  the  death,  in  December, 
of  Elder  Matthew  Cowley,  and  of 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill  as  an  Assist- 
ant to  the  Twelve  to  fill  the  vacancy 
arising  from  Elder  Morris'  new  ap- 
pointment. Elder  Morris'  life  has 
been  spent  in  the  service  of  the 
Church  and  Elder  Sill's  devotion  to 
Church  duties  has  been  noteworthy. 
Page  382 
ere  nee 
Through  twenty-seven  radio  sta- 
tions throughout  the  Western  States 
and  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  parts  of 
the  proceedings  of  the  conference 
were  heard  by  radio  originating  with 
radio  station  KSL.  In  addition  to 
the  coverage  afforded  by  KSL-TV 
for  the  entire  three  days  of  sessions, 
the  first  session  on  Sunday  morning, 
was  released  over  nine  other  TV  sta- 
tions in  Colorado,  Arizona,  Cali- 
fornia, Oregon,  and  Washington. 
The  CBS  Church  of  the  Air  on 
Sunday  morning  preceding  the  sec- 
ond session  of  conference  (the  first 
session  being  the  Priesthood  meet- 
ing on  Saturday  night)  was  ad- 
dressed by  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.  on  the  subject  ''Jesus,  Our 
Risen  Lord."  Truly  the  command- 
ments of  the  Master:  ''Go  ye  unto 
all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel 
to  every  creature"  (Mark  16:15)  is 
becoming  more  understandable  each 
day  as  scientific  marvels  are  bringing 
the  inhabitants  of  the  world  within 
speaking  distance  of  each  other.  In 
this  regard  President  McKay  re- 
counted some  conjectures  of  mis- 
sionaries in  Scotland,  when  he  was 
laboring  there  some  years  ago,  as  to 
the  seeming  impossibility  of  preach- 
ing the  gospel  to  every  nation,  kin- 
dred, tongue,  and  people. 
President  McKay  presided  and 
conducted  all  the  sessions  of  the 
conference.  With  love  and  appre- 
ciation, the  saints  heard  his  opening 
and  closing  exhortations.  Latter- 
day  Saints  were  urged  to  heed  the