[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 669 | Special Feature | The Red Cross and Phoenix and Mesa Stakes (Arizona) Relief Societies Conduct Home Nurse Training Classes Myrtle | R. Olson]
[The Red Cross and Phoenix and Mesa Stakes (Arizona) Relief Societies Conduct Home Nurse Training Classes Myrtle R. Olson]

669 September 1968

 u We stayed 4 Centraa Hotel. The was a square near it with a prilliantly ligh ed, dancing fountain nd band d essed in fancy uniforms which pla late into the night. The policem were very impressive in Early the next morning, We arranged to take 4 comprehensive tour, the longest and most informative possible. First, we were to see the fabucurtains of every house were sparkling clean, anda there were peautiful jong and give from six tO ten gallo milk a day Occasionally; we sa inamill, ut they are scarce no and for picturesque purposes only Dredges and electric pu are working con tinually to clean ou he canals and keep the water level down because fourteen per ent of all Holland, and eighty per ¢ f h Holland ls land reclaime from the sea Twenty per cen th Netherlands is below sea leve Th shallow quider Zee © now being reclaimed an ill give the Hollanders some more ch-neede We saw ™ y houses bul building program, that they have to haul sand in and let it settle {two years pefore they can build, and huge piles have to be driven deep into Alsmeer Flower Market was bustling with activity a the flowers were auctioned off on its famous wheel with such speed that, within twentyfour hours, Dutch flowers were being sold all over the world. There were huge tray-carts of every type of flower «maginable, and we were literally As we came to The Hague (or Gravenhage, the seat of the Government); we learned that the previous evening 150,000 loyal Dutch subjects had A Dutch Treat national celebration. We saw the Peace Palace, the scene of the Peace Conferences held beginning May 18, 1899. The Hague International Peace Conference was one of the most important events which marked the close of the 19th century and is known as "The first great Parliament of Man." Many nations have donated furnishings and valuable gifts for the Peace Palace. We stood in awe when we visited the Royal Art Galleries in The Hague as we saw the art works of Rembrandt, Peter Paul Rubens, van Gogh, and others. Rembrandt's "The Anatomical Lesson" is indelibly painted in my mind. It is a very large painting in blacks and whites of a group of doctors around the body of a dead man, studying the inner structure of the arm. The expressions on their faces and the delicate hands of the doctor explaining are a triumph of art. "Adam and Eve" by Rubens is a marvel of detail and color. A very obliging waiter attended us at a quaint Dutch restaurant and informed us that Holland is famous for its dairy products, chocolate, Dutch beer, fish, and apple pancakes. We can vouch for the delicious apple pancakes. The waiter wds interested in the moral standards of the Church and accepted the address of the mission home. He said the housing shortage is acute, and when young people marry, they must wait five years for an apartment and live with their parents until then. There are approximately twelve million people on 12,978 square miles. A comparison might be made with the state of Utah, which has only a little over a million people in 84,916 square miles. We saw "raw herring stands" where they sell them as we sell hot dogs. They say "a raw herring a day keeps the doctor away." The first herring caught during the season is presented to the Queen. It was intensely interesting to visit the Delft china factory and to watch the craftsmen at the potters' wheels making the famous blue Delft china. It is all hand-painted, and is distinctly a Dutch art. I would have loved to acquire the "Vermeer Girl" plate, but it was $200. The miniature city of Madurodam, showing the life of Holland, captivated us. It was given to the Dutch people by Mr. And Mrs. J. M. L. Maduro of Wilhelmstad, capital city of Curacao, Dutch West Indies in the Caribbean Sea, in memory of their only son George who was honored in 1940 with the "Militar-Willemsorder," and who died, in 1946, in the concentration camp at Dachau, Germany. That incredible little city of Madurodam, built to exact scale, took two years to build, from 1950 to 1952. There are electrically run trains, cars, buses, and boats, and, at night 44,000 tiny electric lights shine through the windows of the buildings and on the streets and it looks like a fairyland. It is a delight to children and adults alike. Along the coast we saw the dazzling white dunes of Holland and the famous beach and hotel at Kurhaus, gathering place for theater and movie stars, and all types of artists who are entertained at the surrounding night clubs. We saw one couple in native costume and regretted that our tour did not include Volendam or the province of Zeeland, where the traditional costume—pantaloons, full skirts, starched caps, aprons, and wooden shoes are the usual attire. We would have liked to have seen the great Cheese Market with the small gondola style boats filled with huge balls of Gouda, Ementaler, and other cheeses, where the men selling the cheeses wear different colored hats to denote the kind of cheese they sell. 

671 September 1968

 But, where was Kuekenhof and the Tulip Show? Imagine our disappointment, upon returning, to find that our tour had not included them. We had given up our room at the hotel, thinking we would leave that night and found there were no other rooms available after waiting in the hot confusion of an extremely crowded terminal for two hours. In desperation, we decided to. Call the mission home to see if they could refer us to any saints who would rent us a room for the night. Two missionaries insisted that we wait right there until they came. We ate a Dutch croquette and sipped scalding hot Dutch chocolate from an automat and wondered if we would recognize the missionaries. It wasn't difficult—they looked like all missionaries—wonderful! We had the privilege of staying in the mission home with the President and Sister Van Slotten, in a wooded suburb. We learned that Holland comes from "Holtland" or wooded land. The German word for wood is "Holz." We knelt with the missionaries around the beautiful big oval table in prayer and next morning, enjoyed the pancakes the elders had prepared. Then we helped the lady missionaries put up sack lunches, because this was the special day when the missionaries gathered from the whole Netherlands Mission, which also included Belgium, for a conference and a visit to the Tulip Show. We realized their challenge language-wise, because of the Hollandish language which has similarities to low German, the Flemish language of Belgium, the areas where French and old Frisian are spoken, and the dialects from all of them. Holland is still a land of religious freedom, as it was in the time of the Pilgrims. The Netherlands Mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established in 1861. Blessing of blessings, there was a place for us in the car, and we went directly to the Tulip Show, rather than trying to see the parade, which was very crowded. There were forty acres devoted to this show, and each view was as if a master artist had painted it. If heaven is more beautiful, my mind cannot fathom it. The tulips of all varieties, along with daffodils, hyacinths, azaleas, and other blooms were beauty spots of pink, red, lavender, yellow, purple, blue, orange, white, and every other conceivable shade of the rainbow in a park of gorgeous trees with moss on their north sides because of the constant dampness of the climate, and lakes, streams, bridges, grottoes and a beautiful windmill. There was a light rain the whole time, but it only heightened the beauty and intensified the colors. We watched the missionaries as they gathered around their beloved leader and felt humble and thrilled to be a small part of this wonderful work of sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ. As we drove to the airport, we saw boatloads of tulip blooms which had been removed to send the strength to the bulb, and saw rosy-cheeked Dutch girls selling leis of the tulip blooms about five feet long and a foot wide to motorists to put on the hoods of their cars.