[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 682 | General Feature | The Wonder of Bulbs | Alice Willardson]
(continued on page 693) 679 The Wonder of Bulbs Alice Willardson = Bulbs are reassuring signposts of the returning splendor of blossoms. They produce a sort of instant flower. In fact, if by mischance you happen to split a bulb, you may see that the flower is already formed in the heart of the bulb, and enough food is stored for the first flowering. Bulbs can give color and variety, with ease of planting—surer beauty for less effort. They require no coddling. Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts RULES TO REMEMBER There are two important rules and they are easily mastered. First, keep their feet dry. Bulbs are subject to rot, and must be planted in a dry place with good drainage. Second, when they are through blooming, pick the flower if you have not done so, and allow the foliage to remain until it is dry. This is important if you want blooms of maximum size a second year, because the foliage feeds the depleted bulb and provides the food for next year's flower. These two rules apply universally to all bulbs. Bulbs require a mulch of humus or compost to keep the topsoil soft so they can break through, however, bulbs should be fertilized sparingly. Bonemeal and wood ashes, mixed in the soil, are good for bulbs. Pests and diseases of bulb plants are negligible if the ground is not kept too wet. Little bulbs for a big spring bring color to a gray world and the assurance of spring. The small bulbs should be planted at a depth of two to three inches and the larger bulbs four to eight inches, depending on the heaviness of the soil, whether it is sandy or clay. Always check carefully directions for depth of planting. You can choose any lovely fall day for planting and, if you want the flowers extra early, plant them in a sunny, sheltered spot facing south. Crocuses, hyacinths, narcissi, daffodils, snowdrops, and many others will greet and cheer you as the first signs of spring. The joy and variety of tulips will gladden your heart. The blooming time in many areas is from early spring, into summer, and the types and colors are endless. The pointed petal, lily flowering type usually blooms earliest. Some Darwin tulips, like the Red Emperor, bloom early. Then there are (continued on page 692) 680 "i at. » ' Photograph by Antonia Copier Grape hyacinths, narcissi, and tulips in brilliant array.