[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 680 | General Feature | Chore Chart Ann | Muir Anderson]
[Chore Chart Ann Muir Anderson]

There was joy of accomplishment for us who actually worked on the 678 (continued on page 693

) Chore Chart Ann Muir Anderson ws Children of any age love the idea of not being told what to do, and will perform their duties better if the responsibility is placed directly on their shoulders. However, there must be a means of controlling the situation. In our family we have found an ideal solution. It is a combination chore chart-wall hanging. It not only makes a lovely decoration, but also takes the nagging out of getting children to do their chores. There are two sets of pockets on the chore chart, an upper set for placing a record of work accomplished and a lower set, for work assignments. Materials Needed 1/, yard of colorful burlap, 36" wide felt and yarn for decorative purposes 1 20" length of 1/," dowel To Make Pull the threads along the two raw edges of the piece of burlap to make Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts Model: Wendy Christine Anderson a fringe 1 inch wide to form the side edges. Turn one end with a selvage edge (this will be the bottom of the chart) up 4 inches and baste in place. Then cut a piece 5 inches wide off the other end of the chart, with a selvaged edge, for use in making the top set of pockets. Baste and stitch this strip onto the chart, turning the raw edge under 1 inch. The space between the sets of pockets should be 2 inches Measure and mark with chalk the divisions of the strips for making the pockets. Since the strips, not counting the fringe, will be 16 inches wide, divide the 16 inches equally into pockets, the number of pockets depending upon the number of children in the family. For example, if there are four children in the family, each pocket will be 4 inches wide. After the divisions have been marked, 'begin at the bottom of the chart, and stitch the pocket divisions straight up to the top of the top set of pockets. Now turn a hem one inch deep at the top of the chart and stitch to form a casing for the dowel.