[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 691 | General Feature | "Snowstorm" by Joseph Mallord William Turner Floyd | E. Brienholt]
["Snowstorm" by Joseph Mallord William Turner Floyd E. Brienholt]

Joseph Turner beautiful? Are they true? Joseph M. W. Turner, the London born artist, lover of the sea, world traveler, romanticist and innovator, was and still is a controversial figure. Important critics have differed intensely in their reaction to his works. Some acclaim him as a forerunner of our present expressionistic art and one who inspired the impressionists. John Ruskin, essayist, art, critic and contemporary of Turner's, was greatly inspired by him. In the essay from Modern Painters printed in the lesson, Ruskin puts into words what he believed Turner was saying in paint. Implied in the essay is the idea that instead of painting the obvious, Turner chose an unusual moment and dramatized it forcefully, using an exaggerated splendor of light and movement to portray a truth. His great experience with the sea and as a sailor gave him a certain authority. It is said that at one time he asked the sailors to lash him to the mast during a terrific storm at sea so that he could experience the power and majesty of the elements. He was tied there for four hours before they could release him. This experience inspired "The Snowstorm." Another writer, Julius Meier—Graefe in his book Modern Art, 1908, was less impressed with Turner's paintings and has this to say: "To pile things up! This became Turner's principle more and more as the years passed by. To bring together as many things as a frame would hold, then to shake them up vigorously, and leave the rest to Ruskin!" There is no doubt that Turner's paintings were different from any at his time and prior to it, that they radiate an emotional quality and an excitement of color and motion bathed in light not known before. They exclude use of realistic detail and one stands in awe at his concept of light. Do his paintings strike a chord of harmony within you? Do you see what you sense to be true? We leave you to decide—what is truth? What is beauty? Is it in the eye of the beholder? 690 ""Lady Jean"' by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Yale University Art Gallery Bequest of Stephen Carlton Clark, B. A., 1903. Painting on page 688. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University.