The Relief SOCIETY Magazine Volume 
55 September 1968 Number 9 a Editor Marianne C. 
Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. 
Crawford General Manager Belle S.

THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be sup- * plied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed., Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 7723 A. Something of a text for the subject heading of this brief writing at the request of the Relief Society General Presidency, I relate two actual life stories which could be repeated many times among members of the Church today. The first: As a recently returned missionary, I was aspeaker at the funeral services for a devoted, faithful former missionary 724 = I For All Eterni Elder Harold B. Lee whom I had known as a most unselfish, dedicated, and effective teacher and exponent of right principles one could ever know. She died of an incurable infectious disease. As her death drew near, she had outlined in detail the memorial services which would be held following her passing. Therefore, all of those participating in that sacred service were keenly conscious, as was I, that each had been chosen because he represented a different phase in her all-too-short life by which she would have her family, loved ones, and intimate friends remember her. My humble offering was to remember her years as a missionary for the Church. Just before she left her home, where she had served as a teacher in the secondary schools following her graduation from the Brigham Young University, a patriarch had given her a remarkable patriarchal blessing. All the specific blessings promised had already been realized excepting one, and the absence of the fulfillment of that one troubled me because, according to my measure, no earthly human could have lived a more nearly Christlike life than had she. Why then had this last I of The Council of the Twelve promised blessing been denied her? The blessing from the Lord through this_ patriarch, had promised her that she would become a mother in Israel. She had never married, therefore she, in her mortal life, had not been privileged to become a mother. I spoke of this in the services and posed my _ unanswered question, "Why?" The second: A _ distraught father and mother had sought an interview to see if some light and understanding could be given them to ease their aching hearts and to bolster their faith. They had just received that ominous and tersely worded telegram from the military informing them of the tragic death of their young son. Just home from a mission for the Church, he had been inducted into military service. Before leaving, he, too, had received a patriarchal blessing in which he was promised that he would have a posterity of sons and daughters. Had the patriarch's words been inspired? Why did this promise fail since, to their certain knowledge, their son had lived worthy of every blessing promised to the faithful who "live unto the Lord''? Following my remarks in the f Not For linc =a are Sa first instance, the stake patriarch and former stake president was the concluding speaker. He declared two vital principles well documented in the scriptures. He explained the doctrine that "life" did not begin with mortal birth and does not end with mortal death. When a patriarch pronounces an inspired blessing, such a blessing encompasses the whole of life, not just the phase we call mortality. "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable" (1 Cor. 15:19), the apostle Paul had written. Failing to understand this great truth, we are "miserable" and sometimes our faith is challenged. With faith that "looks" beyond the grave, and trusting in the Divine Providence to bring all things in their proper perspective in due time, we have hope and our fears are calmed. 'Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things;" declared the Prophet Alma, "therefore if ye have faith, ye hope for things which are not seen, which are true." (Alma 38:21.) This faithful sister, the patriarch explained, although not privileged to bear children in mortality, may through sacred ordi- October 1968 nances in holy temples on earth, in the Lord's own time, be sealed to a worthy husband which sealing, by divine authority, if acceptable to both, could in the world beyond this permit a holy union in eternal wedlock, with the promise of posterity beyond the grave. It was concerning eternal increase that the Lord, in a revelation, declared to those entering into this covenant of marriage and were faithful to the end, that they would have an "exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever." (D&C 132:19.) As though to further clarify this revelation, the Prophet Joseph Smith explained: "But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory." (DHC, V, p. 391.) As the apostle Peter explained, following the Master's_ resurrection and as a result of the visitation of the risen Lord to the world of departed spirits, the Master preached to them "that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." (1 Peter 4:6.) Explained simply: this means that to those worthy beyond this life who accept of the vicarious work performed by authority in the Lord's temples, such ordinances performed for those who have passed on are as effhcacious as though they were living. Were this not so, as the Lord explained to Peter, to whom the keys of the kingdom were given in the meridian of times, the "gates of hell" would have prevailed against the Church of Jesus Christ. Without this vicarious work, instituted in behalf of the faithful who "die in the Lord," the full mission of the Master's atoning sacrifice would not have been extended to such as those illustrated in the instances cited above and many similar which could be cited. You loved ones of that faithful missionary sister, look forward to that glorious day for the promise of motherhood, and you parents of the faithful son who was promised a_ posterity, do not despair. In the Lord's own way and in his own time, he will bring all things right in his own way. Thanks be to God! Sometime ago I had occasion to write some things to the many faithful sisters who not as yet or may not in mortal life have women's greatest expectations fulfilled. It is appropriate to 726 For Al Eternity 'f Not For Time eWise, you © may lose early life Your liy, illness by accident > Or in ¢ eS in their ¢ Panions Within th urch here In mor d. Ality, oy he eafter, nd throy h Ife in 1824, be Ore th hurch Promises h Iness of his aS Organiz d, and Joseph Mar. Blessings? 727 departed this eterna] ITlage be heirs to the Pleasant YOUrnes Pauline J. Jensen ® I look out of the window at the snow that falls effortlessly, making, as in James Russell Lowell's poem, "All silence and all glisten."" Since before Christmas it has come, a bit each day, until the tall drifts are at waist level, with mountains where the wind has whipped it to peaks. The calendar announces that it is nearly spring, but here in our Northland, there is little to indicate that soft breezes and a warm sun are approaching. A restlessness siezes me, and I think of all the beautiful countries that are now sun-drenched and caressed by gentle winds. I long to be there on one of those lovely beaches, watching the ebb and flow of tide and hearing the cries of the gulls. But I really don't have to go outside my four walls to be in some of those places. My generous teacher-daughter, worldtraveled, has brought those countries to me. I walk across the room and lightly tap the cowbells that hang in the archway. I am in Switzerland, from where they 728 came. I see the curving hills, the q pastures, and hear the music from the bells of the patient cows grazing on the green. It is springtime, and the meadows bloom with delicate flowers, and the air is scented with pine. I take a deep breath, then turn and lift the doll music box, and marvel at its perfection. I wind it and soon the strains of "Silent Night" take me to a small Swiss village and a church glowing with lights against the winter darkness. Then the music slows and comes to a lingering end. I leave Switzerland, and my mind travels quickly to China, as I gaze upon an exquisite bit of ceramic on the mantel. The detail is meticulous—the face of the old man lined with the cares of the day; his wife beside him, her hand on his shoulder, her anxious eyes upon him. Is she worried that he had toiled so long? The question unanswered, I go to the figurines of the rural area of that vast land, and see the peasants as they labor in the rice paddies. I hear their staccato cries to one another. I see the children nearby, their little figures bundled against the chill of spring. From a drawer I take the jewelry that came from Hong Kong. As I touch the uneven, but oh, so beautiful designs, I see the woman who made it, bent to her tasks, gnarled fingers fashioning a delicate tracery, adorned with colorful stones. It is an easy trip from China to Japan. My eyessearch the painted blossoms on the four seasons I The delicate beige and black against the brown brocaded matting accent the skill and give appreciation of the outstanding screen. Artistic endowments of the people of that lovely land—Japan. I pick up a lovely bowl of Wedgwood and run my fingers over its raised design. I am now in England. I stand, transfixed, before the Changing of the Guard. My heart thrills to the bongs from Big Ben. My mind exults as I tread the halls of Westminster. All that I have read of it comes crowding in and fills me with awe. I walk reverently through the Poet's Corner, and say a word of thanks that so many of the "greats" are here memorialized in time. I walk along the Avon. I see A Pleasant Journey Stratford, and villages with flowers in every tiny yard. I find myself humming a_ small tune, "There'll always be an England." Now my eyes fall on the clean lines of the black candelabrum on the table. Its pure white tapers stand tall, and remind me of the cleanliness of Copenhagen, from where the tapers came. I see its gay and carnival-like atmosphere, and drink deeply of the fresh salt-breeze. I glance up at the plaque on the wall—crest of my husband's family. I know its history by heart. I feel a thrill of pride that in his veins runs the blood of such a fine and sturdy people. The graceful hand-carved bird beside the low bowl of flowers transports me to India. I feel the noonday heat, and try not 729 October 1968 to think of the hungry little children. Instead, I turn to the pictures of the dancing girls, and study them. The art is strange, and I try to define its meaning. Is there symbolism that I have missed? I move quickly to the Himalayas and revel in the beauty of their lofty, snow-clad peaks. Then I leave India, for who am I to probe the mystery she holds within her? There is much in my snowsurrounded home to remind me of Germany. I gently lift a white porcelain angel from the "Angel Band." How delicate! How fine the detail! This is my favorite gift—this and the music box that so entrances my small grandchild. The Hummel figures on the front, the beautiful Brahms Lullaby that comes when it is wound, eternally fascinate the two of us. It is easy to journey through Germany, to gaze in wonder at the Ludwigian castles, to float leisurely down the Rhine—to drink in all the beauty that is Germany. Reluctantly, I leave the Rhineland and fly back to the Philippines. The satin-smooth carving from there pleases my touch. There is perfection in the fat ox with its carefully detailed horns, the native boy, arm raised with spear in hand. I see the lush land thick with green and fragrant plants. My throat fills at the sight of the blue, almost indigo, Pacific. It is so very real to me, one who has never seen the foam of any ocean. I look outside; the snow still falls. The clock reminds me of other duties. I sigh, for I could well travel on to many countries, through the gifts that fill my house. I feel a surge of gratitude for ' the dear young daughter whose thoughtfulness has made this journey possible. I think of how each gift has lured me into study of the place from whence it came. I think of all the information I have gleaned through doing this. I say a soft thank you to you, my child, and add another to all those people whose skill and struggle, whose toil and effort have: made my journey one of joy. PORTRAIT Wrong is well defined to her as the thin Line of her mouth. She cannot fathom sin Nor tolerate the sinner. She should have been there when his hand Bent to write the message in the sand. —Alice Morrey Bailey \ e 730 Why Archaeology At NAUVOO? Virginia S. Harrington* Assistant Archaeologist, Nauvoo Restoration, Inc. [Address given at the annual picnic of the Nauvoo Historical Society at the Nauvoo State Park, July 16, 1968] # When I chose the topic that I am to use this evening, I hoped that it would make you wonder, or think a bit. You have been aware, each summer, of the work going on, the dirt being moved, the trowels and whisk brooms being meticulously wielded, but do you really understand why all this time and money and effort are being expended? I know, from talking to some of the tourists who stop to look, that the question rises in their minds.