[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 663 | Fiction | Suffer the Little Children E/o/se Johnson | ]
[Suffer the Little Children E/o/se Johnson]

"Well, we shall see," said her Father pleasantly. "The lands, at least, are worth something. In the meantime, we will look forward to a pleasant holiday in Scotland, come April." "And it won't be a walking holiday," added Catherine. 664 Next to Kitty, Maureen was probably the one most interested in the forthcoming visit to Scotland and the castle. She refrained from saying very much about it, however, since the time or two she had spoken with some enthusiasm was immediately interpreted as enthusiasm for the cottage and its occupants. She had hung the painting of the cottage in her room and had to admit—to herself, at least—a deep and growing admiration for the lovely scene. Kitty, on the other hand, was so entranced with the painting of the castle that Maureen finally hung it down in the living room. That meant it was no longer necessary for Kitty to come to her room once or twice daily to stand in rapt admiration. One day early in March, Maureen was excited to receive an air mail letter from Steve Madsen stating that he was going to Brussels for a few days on business for his company and would have a four-hour wait between planes at the Shannon airport. He suggested that it might be a pleasant interlude for her to come over and meet him on that day. "I understand that Shannon is a free port," he wrote, "and you might even want to do some shopping. In any event, if you haven't as yet seen Ireland from the air, I'm sure it is high time you did." Maureen agreed most heartily. She had been spending long hours at Somerset House the past few weeks on her family research, and without very much success. She felt that she was ready for a break of any kind. This par- ticular break seemed especially desirable. She wrote back immediately saying that she would plan to be at the airport in time for his arrival at ten A. M. On the appointed date, she arrived at the London airport early in the morning. At the desk she was told, "We may be fogged in for a short time, but we anticipate that you'll be able to go over before noon." She wanted to argue that noon was not early enough, that she wanted most urgently to be there during the whole of the morning. In fact, she wanted to leave immediately in order to be there and see the ten o'clock plane from America touch down on the ground. But there didn't seem to be much point in stressing the inconsistencies of the weather. No one in London, nor anywhere else, for that matter, argued about the weather. They might grumble and wish for better but, in the end, they accepted whatever came and made the best of it. She could do no less. She settled down with what patience she could muster to watch the people milling about the airport waiting rooms. Since no planes were taking off, the crowds became increasingly great. Some appeared to be very much disturbed and_ checked almost constantly on the weather reports. Others seemed to be philosophical about the whole thing and whiled away the time reading, walking about, or eating. She remembered a film she had seen once of this same situation where the lives of several people were changed drastically because their plane for New York was delayed overnight. She wondered If Spring Be Late if there were some here today to whom the delay might make a startling difference. How much difference would it make in her own life if she were not able to go over at all? But there was no need to speculate or to worry about that. The report was that the fog would surely lift by noon. That would give her at least an hour to visit with Steve, providing the time schedules had correlated, as they were supposed to do. A young woman with a baby in her arms and a youngster of two or so, sat down next to her. Both children were restless and squirming about. "It's hard to wait with children, isn't it?" Maureen mentioned.. "It most certainly is," the woman replied. "I came over by boat, but I was so seasick that I decided I would swim back, if necessary, rather than go through that again—especially with children. I have been congratulating myself on how much easier this would be. Now I am not so sure. I haven't traveled by air before, and I was nervous to begin with. This waiting surely isn't going to help." "Oh, but it can't be very long," Maureen said encouragingly. "If it lifts by noon—as they say it will, you'll soon be on your way. Where do you go?" "To New York City first, and then on to Virginia. I have been visiting my parents over here and letting them get acquainted with their grandchildren. Do you go there also?" "Eventually, but not today. I am going just over to Shannon 

665 September 1968

 to meet a friend who will be there for a few hours between flights. And I'm sure you'll feel all right about your trip once you get on the plane. It will take only a few hours, and you'll be back safe and sound on the other side of the ocean." The little boy, who had been tugging constantly at his mother's hand, broke away and disappeared into the crowd. "Oh, dear!" she cried. "I'll have to go after him!" Maureen held out her arms for the baby and was handed the infant without another word, as the young mother fled and was swallowed up by the crowd. When a quarter of an hour had passed and she had not returned, Maureen began to worry about what she would do in case her plane was called. So far, none had been announced, but she wanted to be ready to jump and run the minute there was a chance to do so. She most certainly didn't want to be left holding a baby. It was one thing to be delayed by a fog, over which no one had any control, and another to be delayed while acting as a volunteer babysitter—no matter how much sympathy was involved. She was not much encouraged when she heard an announcer over the loud speaker ask for the whereabouts of a lost child, a little boy dressed in blue, between two and three years of age. She began looking about to see if there was some kindly appearing woman near by to whom she might shift her burden in case of dire emergency. She was cheered somewhat by the looks of the weather out- 666 side. It seemed that the fog was beginning to lift. Other passengers seemed to be aware of it and began returning from the dining rooms and other spots where they had been. In another fifteen minutes the imminent departure of the first plane was announced. Nhow Maureen was really concerned. Would the big planes or the small ones be allowed to take off first? Hers would be one of the latter, but she had no idea what the procedure would be. She turned to a gentleman sitting in the next chair and asked if he could give her any information concerning the flight pattern. "It will likely be the big ones first," he said. "But all will be delayed, even after the clearing. They can't all use the runways at the same time, you know, regardless of schedules." Maureen nodded. She glanced at the clock for the hundredth time. It was half after eleven now. She would have to get to Ireland in a hurry if she was to meet Steve even so briefly. One obstacle was soon removed. The young mother came rushing back, clutching her runaway firmly by the hand. "I'm dreadfully sorry," she said, taking back the baby. "TI had an awful time trying to find him in this mob. I'll be so thankful to get him inside a plane and strapped down to a seat." Maureen nodded. 'Take it easy,' she said. "You'll have several hours of peace and quiet once you get aboard. And you'll find the stewardesses ever so helpful." The plane for New York was called a few minutes later, and InN time After all, Treland Was Only a Jump awa Being Called was One thin the blue sky agai Most forgotten how and beautify] the Sky Could be. Her first 8limpse of Treland, too, was like ni Out there on the runway, Did You plan to take it?" Maureen Shook her head. "No," f the Passengers " How much she was hoping she hadn t realized Until that moment. "Ah!" exclaimed the Clerk. Do yoy happen to be Miss Taggert?" ee her future Path. Per. Haps, if they had me not have and, they Might si ly have ha lunch together He would have asked her about her Work and told her about his. He Would have given e€rself that She h expected ¢ Share with Steve She made her Way toa dinin September 1968 at five o'clock, and there was no need to hurry. She might as well take advantage of the pleasure there might be in studying the people. They obviously came from all parts of the globe, and it was rather exciting to look them over and see if she could determine from where they came. After lunch she decided to walk through the shop and makea few purchases. The girls had all been intrigued about her going to Shannon, a free port, and the wonderful buys she might make. She walked about, merely looking for some time, then purchased a — cashmere sweater for herself and gloves for the two Taggart girls. "Perhaps this is the time to get a wedding gift for Diane," she decided. After browsing about, looking over everything from china to silver, she decided upon a linen tablecloth. After all, Irish linen, purchased right in Ireland, would be something a girl could always cherish. She was tempted to buy one for herself, also, but could not get into the right mood. After her disappointment in not meeting Steve, romance seemed to have been pushed far into the background. Perhaps she would go on using her old tablecloths for the rest of her days. She thought some of taking a ride out into the country—providing she could find transportation. She would welcome anything rather than turning around and going back home again. But, on second thought, she decided against it. The Taggarts would be expecting her and would be worried if she didn't appear some time during the evening. 668 She indulged in a bit more window shopping, then took her purchases back to the waiting room and settled down until time to board her plane. The ride back was still interesting, even if the glow of anticipation had vanished. The sky was still blue and the grass was still green—as green as Ireland, she couldn't help thinking. The landing at London was uneventful and she rode into town to take the tube out to Bahlen again. The girls were almost breathless with excitement and quesions. She was scarcely inside the door until Kitty demanded, "Oh, do tell us all about it! Did you have a perfectly marvelous time?" "Thad a perfectly horrid time— almost," Maureen replied, "The airport at London was fogged in, and by the time I arrived at Shannon the plane for Brussels was just taking off." "But surely," Kitty insisted, "he must have been watching at the window so that he could wave to you." "He may have been. So, I didn't see him." "Oh, but I am sure that he must have seen you." "IT have no way of knowing," said Maureen. "All I know is that the plane was just taking off. So I had a lonely lunch, did a bit of shopping, and came back home again." "Then, the day was a total loss," Kitty sighed. "Not at all," Maureen replied brightening. "I saw Ireland from the air. It was a beautiful sight. It was one that I shall never forget." But, if (to be continued) Jean Anderson Jensen a The happy privilege of sharing this memorable experience with you has come about because I answered "yes" to the following four "golden" questions: Marthys J. Van Os 1. Do you believe The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only true church? 2. Will you serve with your husband on a building mission for the Church in West Berlin, Germany? 3. Would you like to go on a week-end trip to Paris for your birthday anniversary? 4. Would you please write an article for The Relief Society Magazine telling about your trip to Holland? The Lord was certainly guiding our footsteps, as he had done throughout our recently completed, glorious mission, because, when my husband, Marc, went to purchase tickets to Paris, they were sold out, and they suggested we fly by way of Amsterdam, Holland, and see the great Tulip Show at Kuekenhof, which was to open the next day. That jet ride through fantastic cloud formations was the most beautiful I have ever experienced, and I captured some of the cloud mountains and canyons in our camera. As we crossed the boundary into Holland, a charming stewardess presented each passenger with a Dutch chocolate ball like a segmented orange, saying "Compliments of Queen Juliana Louise Emma Marie Wilhelmina on the fifty-fifth anniversary of her birth." The date was April 30, 1964, and I impulsively said "Thank you, it is my birthday anniversary, too." She congratulated me, bowed, and gave me another chocolate "orange," a symbol used because Queen Juliana is from the royal "House of Orange." Holland, or "The Kingdom of the Netherlands," was fascinating to see from the air because of its network of canals and rivers which made a pretty pattern on the green, green pastures. I thought of Hans Brinker winning his silver skates as he skated on these frozen canals. It was a breathtaking sight to see Amsterdam, the capital city, in a flash of brilliant sunlight below us. It was like a sea of red tile roofs separated by light blue canals. As we alighted, the band started to play, and Dutch flags were waved as the dignitaries welcomed the couple from America who were representing the American Florists and presented them with a large bouquet of prize tulips. We pretended it was all for us, and gaily took the bus from the airport to the city. We saw trees decorated with artificial oranges along the way, and when we arrived, we ran excitedly and took pictures before it was too dark. A man was turning the crank to make music on an ornate, garishly painted hurdy-gurdy which was only used on holidays; children were dancing and playing accordions on the festive streets; and, in a shop window, there was a lovely picture of Queen Juliana and her Prince Con-