[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 710 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted Alice | Cotton Smith]

September 1968

"The noblest aim in life is to strive to live to make other lives better and happier," said President David O. McKay. (Pathways to Happiness, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, Inc., p. 280.) To encourage, to help achieve, praise whenever possible, teach how to learn from failure, to give to each child the certainty that he is a worthwhile, loved, and valued child of his parents and of God, to accept others with their limitations, as people such as are we, who are not yet perfect but desire to be, is to follow the advice of our prophet. Of children and the non-Mormon, especially, we should be thoughtful and considerate. None should be called bad, although sometimes we may and should discuss that which is being done as not praiseworthy. By loving and accepting all our neighbors as worthwhile, we will help them and us grow toward God. Acceptance is the fertile soil in which growth takes place.

HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education

Discussion 3—Priceless Treasures

Celestia J. Taylor

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1968
Southern Hemisphere: April 1969

OBJECTIVE: To point out the joy, satisfaction, and historical value of a continuous compilation of significant family events.

INTRODUCTION

Instinctive in all of us, whether we are aware of it or not, is the desire to preserve for our posterity the knowledge and assurance of our having lived. Coupled with this natural inclination is the impulse to share with our associates, particularly our loved ones, our moments of happiness, our accomplishments, our aspirations, and our hopes. Were this not so, no books would have been written, no songs would have been sung, and no pictures would have been painted.

The Latter-day Saints are a record-keeping people, for to keep records is a part of their great heritage from The Book of Mormon, as well as from the Bible. Our interest in genealogy bears ample evidence of this fact. In his infinite wisdom, the Lord has commanded from time to time, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, the keeping of records of all that has transpired.

The Relief Society Magazine for January 1967 contains the homemaking discussion, "Keeping

710

Records," which emphasizes the value and importance of keeping various kinds of home-management records. We recommend a review of this particular discussion. However, the purpose of our current discussion is to make us aware of the joy and satisfaction, as well as the historical values, to be gained from the compilation of significant family events and to indicate various methods which can be employed in the making of such records.

HOW SHALL WE COMPILE OUR FAMILY RECORDS?

Some months ago, in answer to a request for information relative to this subject, one of our lovely Relief Society sisters, who is a mother of nine children, contributed several ideas which should prove helpful. To begin with, she says, "Without counting my husband, my children, the gospel, etc.—of all the lovely worldly things I possess, the ones I cherish far above all others are the family books I have kept since our marriage twenty-three years ago. I have often told baby-sitters that if the house caught on fire, by all means to get the children out first, but if there was any time at all—to get our family records out next."

She says further, "I have these books custom-made at a bookbinding company so that they are all the same size." Briefly, this is what these books are comprised of:

1. Our Wedding Book
2. Our Life Together Books
   a. Baby pictures and announcements
   b. Yearly family pictures
   c. Homes we have lived in

   d. Schools our children attend
   e. Wards where we have had our recommends
   f. High school graduations
   g. Armed services
   h. Missions
   i. College graduations
   j. Family weddings
   k. Grandchildren
   l. Church activities
   m. Vacations and trips
   n. Business ventures
   o. Other family activities

3. Children's Record Books (One for each child)

Sister Badger says, "I believe that keeping a book for each child is one way of making a child feel that he is ... an individual with talents, abilities, and achievements of his own. ... Each little accomplishment is duly recorded. There is nothing my children enjoy more than getting their books out and looking through them or showing them to a friend." Some of the things recorded in these books are:

   a. A newspaper the day of the child's birth (This tells so much—the weather, clothing styles, world and local news, hair styles, movies, food prices, etc.)
   b. Personal firsts (first tooth, haircut, day of school, etc.)
   c. Significant events (Church activities, parties, hikes, accidents, etc.)
   d. Friends
   e. Pets
   f. Schools and teachers
   g. Personal accomplishments
   h. Jobs

4. Family Home Evening Book. Each page includes a program of events, chairman, song, prayer, business, scripture, program, refreshments, and any special activities which might be included.

5. Photograph Album. "Always have your camera loaded." This album contains treasured pictures, mostly unplanned, on-the-spot snapshots which

711
