[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | December | Issue: 7 | Title: THE HAWAIIAN QUEEN. | Author: Unknown]

THE HAWAIIAN QUEEN.
	The visit to this city of Queen Liliouka-
lani has created considerable interest among
the people, who are, at least a number of
them, well acquainted with Her Majesty and
even though she is not now a sovereign
queen, she is in herself, as President Joseph
F. Smith fittingly remarked in his address at
the reception given in her honor, a queen
among her people and as such they honor
and regard her.
	The Queen has ever been friendly to our
people and we have taken a great interest in
everything connected with her affairs. The
late President George Q. Cannon had a great,
admiration for Her Majesty Lilioukalani, as
also has our present President of the Church,
Joseph F. Smith.
	She is a woman of superior gifts and
accomplishments, fond of music, poetry and
the fine arts and has composed some very
sweet songs and verses. She speaks Eng-
lish remarkably well and her literary attain-
ments have made her conversant with many
languages and the history of many countries.
Her Majesty is remarkably well preserved
and her quiet and dignified manner suits well
the rank in which she was born.
	The reception given at the Bee Hive by a
special committee of which the Hon. Abra-
ham Fernandez was the chairman, was a
brilliant success. The affair was well man-
aged and the spacious parlors of the historic
Bee Hive House were once again made
historically popular by welcoming a queen to
the ever memorable home of Brigham

[Column 2]
Young. In this fact there is a fulfillment of
prophecy, which we ought to remember and
recognize. That “the queens of the earth
should come to Zion,” etc.
	The program opened in the parlors of the
Bee Hive with an address of welcome by
President Joseph F. Smith in which he told
of his first mission to the islands and spoke
most feelingly of the kindness and hospitality
shown him by that generous people and
especially the former queen, since deceased,
who was truly a foster mother to him in his
youth and inexperience while he was study-
ing the language, and indeed throughout his
sojourn in that, far-off land.
	Most of the musical exercises were by the
Hawaiians, who are very fond of this high
art, and the son and daughter of Brother and
Sister Fernandez did much to contribute to
the musical program. Miss Lulu Gates
sang a little Hawaiian song in the native
language which she had once sung when a
child on the islands for the former queen.
	Brother and Sister Gates were at the time
on a mission to the Sandwich Islands.
	Queen Lilioukalani was assisted in receiv-
ing by President Joseph F. Smith and Elder
Henry P. Richards, who stood at her left
hand, and Mrs. Fernandez. The Hon.
Abraham Fernandez made the introductions
in a very happy manner, as each one cor-
dially greeted and gave her welcome, and.
the matter of presentation to Her Majesty
was very happily accomplished, though per-
haps somewhat informal.
	The Queen was most gracious to all who
were presented and with an affability that
betokened rank and dignity. After the
musical part of the program was over the
Hon. Abraham Fernandez responded in be-
half of the Queen in a very happy manner
and the company in greeting each other and
certainly the occasion was proud and hap-
py one, a very delightful entertainment. The
committee are to be congratulated on the
success of their hurried arrangements.


