[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | December | Issue: 7 | Title: A TOKEN. | Author: AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON]

A TOKEN.

A warm, loving palm on my cheek as I dreamed,
A kiss and a breath like the touch of a rose,
And voice, that the sweetest of melody deemed;
Responsive in gladness, my eyelids unclosed—
Ah ! I’d been dreaming! All of it gone—
Far away, years away—here and then gone.

The babe that I thought still lay here on my heart,
Out in the great world, still mine, but a man—
Teardrop and smile and a heavy pain start,
All three together. Explain if you can,
All their strange harmony; tell me who can.

Why, over mountains and rivers and years,
Desolate landscape and senses grown numb,
Mountains of trials and darkness of fears,
Like lightning o'er silence, such moment should
	come?
Like lightning through darkness, such moment 
should come!

I, who take pride in their statue and strength,
(As once in their dimpled and fresh infancy)
To drop from remembrance the years’ weary
	length
And down in my dreamstheir young mother to be,
Deep down in my dreams their glad mother to be.
Had I forgotten through all waking hours
In fancy’s pictures of daughters and sons?
(Mothers ye know the best treasures of ours—
Tresses and mem’ries of our little ones,)
Hath life held sweeter than our little ones?
I, to dream such, when my hair has grown white,
And they each have missions in life to fulfill ?
But—the mother’s heart, like the north star’s
light,
E’er beckons their course to the Father’s will,
That right of her soul from Divinity,
Will still hold its claim through eternity,

When thou gavest them first to my trembling em-
	brace,
They were fresh from Thy keeping and pure in
	Thy sight;
From conflict and tempter, Thy power and grace
Can strengthen, deliver and lead them aright;
And my heart, as the years grow, its watch care
	will keep;
As the years pass, Thy tokens and promise shall
	keep.
’Twas Thy spirit of love, O, my Father, that sent
The vision of bliss after all that had passed.
Thou hast not forgotten me, I am content;
Thou hast wakened again all my spirit at last,
I shall hold them again, near my heart at last.

After life’s work is done, and its last dream,
I shall waken in gladness and find it all truth,
The grace of blest motherhood o’er me shall beam,
And the bright bow of promise o’er cradle and
youth,
Mine—by that token that came in my sleep—
The kiss of my baby, that waked me from sleep.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Erda, August 6, 1901.


