WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The annual convention of the Yellowstone
stake was held at St. Anthony, Feb. 23, 1913,
commencing at 10 a. m.; President Julia E.
Miller presiding; roll call showing 8 stake
officers, 37 ward officers, members, and vis-
itors; also stake presidency, two high coun-
cilors and several bishops present.
	A speech of welcome by First Counselor
Mary J. Miller. Talk on storing of grain by
Amelia C. Barnes. Song, Sister Singleton
of St. Anthony. Paper on charity by Sister
Vera Remington. Song by members of
Marysville ward.
	Bro. Frank A. Miller of the stake Sunday
School spoke for a short time of the rela-
tionship of the different organizations of the
Church.
	President Daniel G. Miller spoke encour-
agingly to the sisters; thanked them for their
assistance in the erection of the Tabernacle.
Singing, “We Thank Thee, oh God, for a
Prophet.” Benediction by Sister Emily
Lamborn.
	Afternoon Session—President Julia E.
Miller presiding, First Counselor Mary J.
Miller conducting.
	Singing, “How Firm a Foundation.”
Prayer by Bishop A. D. Miller, Sr., of the
St. Anthony ward. Singing, “Nay, Speak
No Ill.” Speech of welcome, Pres. Julia
E. Miller. A talk on the opportunity that
comes to a mother in her Relief Society
work, by Sister Ellen Murri. A talk on
child culture by Sister Janette Miller. Song,
Sister Vilate Rigby. Talk on “Mothers of
Great Men” by Sister Alice Parker. Song
by two young girls of the Marysville ward.
	Bro. C. E. Lloyd spoke for a short time,
encouraging all to do their duties. A set of
resolutions passed by general board of Re-
lief Society was read by Secretary Mary E.
Brower.
	Sister Mary J. Miller thanked all who had
taken part. Singing, “Guide Me to Thee.”
Benediction by Sister Bessie Redding.
				MARY E. BROWER, Secy.
	LOS ANGELES BRANCH.
	Anniversary Exercises of the National
Woman’s Relief Society, of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of the
Los Angeles Branch, March 17, 1913.
	Sister Olive D. Christensen, General Sec-
retary of the Relief Society board, and Sis-
ter Maria Y. Dougall, were present. Ser-
vices were conducted by Second Counselor
Sister Louise Irving.
	Opening by singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.”
	Invocation by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Vocal Solo by Sister Josie Hinckley, “I
Love You.”
	A reading on Woman and her Work,
Sister Jessie S. Reed.
	Vocal Solo, “Carmena and When Love is
Kind,” Elsie B. Best.
	The minutes of the organization of the
Woman’s Relief Society were read by Sis-
ter Olive D. Christensen.

[Column 2]
	Violin Solo, Joseph K. Robinson.
	Recitation, Sister Heywood.
	Quartette, Wm. A. Shepherd, Alma J.
Winters, Sister Josie Hinckley and Katie
Robinson.
	A Rubenstein Reading, Horace N. Fish.
	President Robinson addressed the gather-
ing eulogizing woman and what she has
done for mankind.
	Duet, Jos. E. Robinson and Wm. A.
Shepherd.
	Sister Irvine spoke of the work of the
Society in Los Angeles.
	President Robinson informed the Society
and Saints of the room in the new church
especially for the ladies.
	By request Sister Hinckley sang, “May
Morning.”
	Envelopes were passed around for dona-
tions, after which ice cream and cake were
served. A pleasant evening was spent, after
which the gathering was dismissed by Elder
George H. Anderson.
	Amount donated $21.37.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference, held March
21st at Spring Lake, President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding and taking charge.
	Singing, “Our God, we Raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Brother David Butler. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Minutes of last Con-
ference were read and approved. Roll
called, seven wards represented, sixty-two
officers and members and eight brethren
present.
	Sister Diantha Thomas spoke a few words
of welcome. Sister Dixon made opening
remarks. Was glad to see so many present.
Spoke of Relief Society work and what it
consists of—for the sick and needy and
teaching the Gospel.
	Sister Edla Johnson gave a report of
Benjamin Ward Society.
	Sister Reece of Santaquin gave a recita-
tion.
	Sister Ursula Drollinger reported Payson
First Ward.
	Sister Sorena Youd reported Lake Shore
Ward.
	Sister Mara Anna Barren of Santaquin
gave a reading entitled, “Self Sacrifice.”
	Sister Matilda Dixon gave a lesson on
“Modern Revelation.”
	Sister Martha S. Kapple, having just re-
turned from a trip to California, spoke on
revelation, and the organization of the Re-
lief Society; said her trip away from home
had strengthened her testimony.
	Closed morning session by singing, “The
Spirit of God like a Fire is Burning.”
	Benediction by Brother Walter Menlove.
		AFTERNOON SESSION
	After the opening exercises, remarks
made by President Smith during our last
conference were read by Sister Ruth Sar-
gent.
	Recitation by Sister Emma Greenhalgh
“Mother and Home, Sweet Home.”
	Sister Clara R. Evans spoke on protecting
the morals of the young people of Zion.
	Recitation by Sister Emma Greenhalgh
of Santaquin.
	Brother Alpheus Bingham said we should
do all in our power to get our children to do
right and shun evil. We are not confiden-
tial enough with our children.
	Song, Sister Maria Perry, entitled, “Just
Plain Folks.”


Brother David Butler made a few re-
marks on moral purity.
	Recitation by Sister Hortense Butler.
	Sister Eliza A. Hawkins, just returned
from California, gave a short talk.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon explained the use
of the new text book, called “Primer of
Sanitation;” made closing remarks thank-
ing the people of Spring Lake Ward for
royal entertainment.
		E. A. HAWKINS, Cor. Secretary,
						Payson, Utah.


