A VISIT TO NAUVOO. 
	A congenial party of five friends left St.
Louis, Mo., to visit the City of Nauvoo, and
also to attend the conference of the North-
ern States Mission. We crossed the Mis-
sissippi river at Montrose boarded a gaso-
line launch, crossed the river again and
looking back viewed the Island where the
Prophet Joseph Smith sought refuge from
his enemies in times of danger, we then
turned our faces towards the historical city
of Nauvoo, made dear to the hearts of the
Latter-day Saints for the sad and beautiful
memories of the past. We truly felt we
were treading upon sacred ground, for a
Prophet of the true and living God had
here made his home for a few short years
of his momentous life. We anxiously
looked for the homes of our people, locat-
ing many of them. Sixty miles of rock
curbing outline the sidewalks, placed there
by the “Mormon” people.
	We found the people hospitable and kind,
and had no trouble in securing rooms in pri-
vate families. We started out to view the
landmarks left by our people, first visiting
the spot where the Temple once stood, built
by the people in their poverty, costing them
one million dollars. The pillars alone, of
which there were thirty, costing three thous-
and dollars each. One of them was taken
to the Capitol in Washington. At the hotel
we saw one stone of gray granite taken
from the temple, about 6 by 8 feet, with a
half moon and a man’s face cleverly carved
on one side, also a fine picture of the Tem-
ple. The ground on which the temple stood
remains bare. Nothing remains but one
old moss covered wall. I pictured my
father cutting stone as he labored here in
those early days. Near by stands a hos-
pital built of the stones of the Temple, after
the sacred edifice had been burned by a mob
of wicked men. We next visited the home
of the Prophet—the Mansion House—it is
well preserved and taken care of by a family
not of our faith, who showed us through
each room. We saw many relics of the
family, a pair of silver-bowed spectacles


[Column 1]
which they claimed the Prophet wore, also
a daguerreotype of his wife Emma.
	The house contained eight rooms and is
in good condition. We crossed the street
and saw the first house the Prophet lived in.
It is unoccupied and fast going to decay.
At the front of the door is a plain slab of
granite which marks the last resting place
of Emma Smith, the Prophet’s wife. We
also stood on the spot where the bodies of
the Prophet and his brother Hyrum lay in
state, and were viewed by ten thousand
people. Opposite is the Nauvoo House,
partly finished. All this property is now
owned by people not of our faith.
	The location of the Prophet’s home is
ideal. The land here is shaped like a horse
shoe, sloping down to the river’s edge. The
view here is inspiring, with the rolling hills
