EVENING.
	This poem recently won a gold medal award-
ed by the London Poet’s Club.

Beyond all poesy, sublimity of song.
Sweet eventide, when mellow shadows throng
The valleys, and the slow, reluctant day,
On purple sandals, gliding, steals away
Into the gloaming by the sleeping streams,
A pensive spirit passing unto dreams. 
It is the hour when woods enchanted glow,
And gentle winds with dying odors blow.
From tree to tree faint pipes of evening call,
The bat sweeps circling by the ivied wall,
A lark drops fluttering to his lowly nest.
And drowsily the ringdove croons of rest.
The moan of kine has ceased, the drone of
	bees,
But ever a little stream among the trees
Speeds lightly on, and singeth as it goes,
Songs that a child at evening might compose,
Now the sun's flight is finished in the west,
Where far the great clouds veil his flaming
	crest,
The shepherd pens his weary flock away,
Safe folding laggard little ones that stray,
Bidding them browse awhile ere darkness steep
All things that move, in deep, embrowned
	sleep. 
High uplands as at early morning shine,
Sacred the light that gilds the day's decline,
As when the dawn with holy eyes appears
And opening blossoms sparkle with her tears,
For gross, foreboding day, which climbs the
	east, 
Calling the world to work, and fight, and
	feast,
The cunning day, the fierce, insistent hours
Of human strife with Nature's dreadful pow- 
	ers,
The groaning of a being chained to earth,
Although ablaze with vision from his birth.
But, come, the evening calls us, let us go,
We must not sorrow because earth hath woe.
A passion lingers in this serene air,
A passion void of triumph or despair.
Empty of storm, and hushed to calm delight,
We turn our eyes to greet the coming night.
The stars are streaming up the boundless hills,
The stars which smile at men's inconstant
	wills,
And in an opal radiance, crescent-wise,
The moon peers coldly from the limpid skies.


[Column 1]
	AN INTERESTING LETTER.
	An interesting letter from the recent
flooded district:
				Peru, Ind., May 15, 1913.
My Dear Grandma:
	Now that conditions are getting back to
normal I know you will be interested to hear
from me regarding the recent flood. As
perhaps you know, we had a rainy Easter
Sunday and not until seven o’clock Monday
morning did it stop, then the sun came out
and it looked as though the rain must be
all past. I went to town to do my market-
ing, and hearing that the Wabash river was
rising, I with a friend went down to see it.
About noon we returned to her home and
had luncheon, planning to go about a mile
up stream in the afternoon to the mouth of
the Wississinewa river, as we could hear
the roar of the water, and wanted to see the
sight. However, it started raining again
and we decided to wait, but at five o’clock
it had not stopped so we gave it up and I
returned home. All night the rain came
down and when I tried to phone my friend
Tuesday morning “central” told me the
wires in that neighborhood were down and
there was a foot of water around her home.
I hurried to town and when I reached the
Court House corner one block away I could
see the river was over its banks and already
one block of the business district was in-

[Column 2]
undated, and the water still rising. Every
one was talking about the high water mark
having been passed and as our city is nearly
level and I then was only about two squares
from the water, I thought I better get in 
some provisions. You see I was all alone
as Gene left Monday morning for Fort
Wayne. I first bought a pair of rubber
boots, then walked over to my friend’s house
or rather to within a half block of it, for
then I was in water up to my boot tops.
Their house is on a very high foundation
and she and her family were all right, as
they have an upper story. Her house is
farther from the river than mine, but that
part of the city is lower. I went back to
town and bought a big stock of canned
goods, oil stove, lamps and some alcohol. In
the store they were so busy I had to grind
my own coffee (eight lbs.) and carry all my
purchases home. I bought the largest
washtub I could and caught it full of rain
water, besides filling everything in the
house. The city water by this time was unfit
for use. I worried considerable about Gene
at first until I was told Fort Wayne was
higher, and then I felt better. We were
cut off from the outside world and I did not
know that he, too, was in a flooded country.
Tuesday night he heard about Peru and
tried to get word from me, but could not
nor could he get back here. Still he felt I
was safe as our apartment is on the second
floor and is built of brick. Then we are
only one block west of the court house, and
that is the highest point. We were both
mighty glad and thankful when we found
each other safe and well, Friday night. He
had to walk from Chili, about ten miles
north of here. I took in eight refugees and
the apartment opposite being vacant, we
fitted that up with spare things. The men
carried furniture from down stairs, and in
all we had about twenty-three to cook for
on a little alcohol stove. By this time we
had bought more canned goods, and we ate
mostly cold things, saving the alcohol to
make hot coffee. Everyone had their own
dishes, as washing them was impossible,
water was too valuable. The gas, water and
heat were now all off and we all had to
hang around the oil stove to keep the chill
off. Some of us crowded around that while
others slept, but I could not have slept for
the roar of the water was maddening. My
telephone still was working and the chief
operator and the other girls talked to us to
keep up their courage. They had nothing
to eat so I made a bucket of coffee and
boiled some eggs and took this, together
with some canned goods, over to them. The
exchange is a square away, but with my
boots I made one trip all right, later I sent
it over in a boat each time. Wednesday it
snowed, and this added to the suffering.
Most of the refugees were crowded in the
court house and library, and they had no
heat. Thursday the water started to go
down, and as three of the men in our party
were connected with the Brown Auto Truck
factory, on the north side where the water
was deep, they got a boat and went over to
investigate. While they were in the factory
some one took their boat. They sent word
to us by way of “central” and we took an-
other out, and I went along. The sights I
saw on this trip I will never forget. Still I
have since seen worse in South Peru, where 
nearly everything was wrecked.
	Everything considered, we have much to

[Column 3]
thank our Lord for. Hoping this finds you
well and happy, I am always
	Your loving grandchild,
