covered with green pine trees, truly an ideal
spot for a beautiful city. Nauvoo is now a
quiet, peaceful hamlet of about one thous-
and inhabitants, sleeping its life away,
where once stood a city of twenty thousand.
	We visited the old home of President
John Taylor, a well preserved red brick
building of eight rooms, occupied now by
a widow woman and her daughter. A small
store near by is rented by the Latter-day
Saints for Sunday School and sacrament
meetings.
	We then went to the Masonic Temple and
standing on the spot where the Prophet de-
livered his last address to his dearly be-
loved people, we together with one hundred
humble missionaries of the gospel, had our
pictures taken, among the number was
Brother Pitts, an elderly man who has heard
the Prophet preach many times out in the
open air.
	In the evening we attended services held
by our people in the City Hall, about three
hundred being present. The following day
being Sunday, a special fast meeting was
held, and about fifty young men and women
bore testimony of the divinity of Joseph
Smith’s mission. The Spirit of God was
there in abundance. We felt it was a priv-
ilege to bear our testimony on this occasion
to the truthfulness of the restored gospel.
It was a time never to be forgotten.
	Our next trip was to the City of Carthage,
passing the old “Mormon” cemetery, then
the farm once owned by the Prophet. We
did not wonder that he turned to take a
last look at this beautiful spot. After a
pleasant ride of twenty-two miles over a
level road, viewing the well tilled farms,
we entered the city of Carthage. A short
ride and we were in front of the solid rock
jail with walls thirty-two inches in thick-
ness, now covered with green vines. The
well curb is removed, a green lawn in its
place. Crossing the threshold of the door,
serious thoughts entered our minds as we
ascended the stairway, opened the door
dented with bullet marks and entered the
room where the blood of the Patriarch
Hyrum Smith stains the floor. These spots
stand out clear as a testimony against the
people of Illinois who had promised pro-
tection. We stood by the window, half
open, facing the east, where the Prophet
Joseph looked down the muzzle of sixty or
more rifles, and throwing his body headlong
at their feet pierced with four bullets, ex-
claimed, “Oh Lord, my God.” They never
fail who die in a great cause.
	After a short talk with the family who

[Column 2]
have charge of the place, which is owned
by our people, we returned to Nauvoo, at-
tended services, and the following day re-
turned to the city of St. Louis.
