SKETCH OF THE EAST BOUNTIFUL
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The first society was organized by Bishop
John Stoker and counselors, April 24, 1857.
Bountiful was then called North Canyon
ward. The three wards were in one.
	The first president was Elizabeth H. Bar-
low; her first counselor was Louisa Grant;
second counselor, Hannah Holbrook; secre-
tary, Phoebe C. Sessions; treasurer, Lucina
Sessions.
	There were seventy-nine members. Four-
teen meetings were held.
	They did a good work at that time, look-
ing after the poor. One family received
over $60.00. Meetings were discontinued
on account of Johnston’s army coming to
Utah.
	When Bountiful was divided Bishop John
Stoker and counselors, with Sister Eliza
R. Snow, organized the Relief Society
again. Elizabeth H. Barlow was chosen
president again; Lucina Sessions, first
counselor; Mary Jane Crosby, second coun-
selor; Mary Carter, secretary; Cordelia
Carter, treasurer. They had what was
known as a teachers’ quorum. H. Holbrook,
president; Sarah C. Sessions, first coun-
selor; Phoebe Sessions, second counselor;
Phoebe Sessions, secretary.
	The sisters, with the help of the breth-
ren, built what is known as the Relief So-
ciety hall. Bishop John Stoker gave the
land to the sisters to build the hall on. The
people were not so well off at that time,
but they did a noble work in looking after
the needy, and it was up-hill work, for at
that time the people did not understand the
sisters’ labor as they do today, and they
often were made light of.
	When Sister Barlow resigned, 1883,
Bishop Chester Call and counselors chose
Lucina Sessions for president; Nancy T.
Willey, first counselor, and Pamelia Barlow
Thompson for second counselor; Phoebe
Sessions, secretary; Frances Rampton,
treasurer.
	After Sister Hannah Holbrook’s death,
Sister Samantha Willey was made presi-
dent of the teachers’ quorum; Sarah C. Ses-
sions, first counselor, and Jane Burning-
ham, second counselor; Sarah E. Fox, sec-
retary.
	The sisters built the granary near the
hall to store their grain in, as President
Brigham Young gave that mission to the
sisters to lay up grain for the time of need.
	In 1897, Brother L. John Nuttall came
up to Bountiful, and with Bishop David 
Stoker and counselors, organized what was
known as the National Benevolent society,
with by-laws and articles of incorporation
so that the society could hold real estate,
and they were to be re-elected every four
years. At the re-organization, Sister Lu-
cina Sessions resigned and Nancy Willey
was chosen president, with Pamelia Thomp-
son as first vice president; Phoebe Sessions,
secretary, and Sarah E. Fox, assistant sec-
retary; Frances Rampton, treasurer.
	At that time they discontinued having a
president and counselors to the teachers’
quorum, as the president of the society and
her counselors were considered to be the
proper ones to preside over the teachers.
	In June, 1899, Sister Fox departed this
life and Bishop David Stoker chose Mary
Waddops as second vice president to Sister
Willey, and Annie Neville assistant secre-
tary.
	In 1901 Bishop Stoker met with the sis-
ters at the four years’ election and Sister
Willey was chosen again with the same 
board. Sister Frances Rampton resigned
in 1902, and Wilda Rampton was chosen
in her place, as Sister Annie was absent at
times, Sister Jane Stoker Tolman acted as
assistant secretary. When Annie Neville
resigned as assistant secretary, 1906, Sis-
ter Laura Barlow was chosen assistant sec-
retary.
	In 1905, the same board was elected, Sis-
ter Phoebe Sessions resigned in 1906. She
had been a very faithful secretary for thirty-
five years, not only in the ward but in the
stake. Sister Laura Barlow was chosen to
take her place as secretary, and Afton
Rampton Mabey as assistant secretary. The
society had a good, lively band of teachers.
There were twenty-nine districts and four
to six teachers in a district.
	The teachers were very faithful and good
to visit their districts in rain or shine, to
look after those in their districts where
there was sickness or those that needed.
Sister Willey was certainly a mother to the
sisters in giving them good counsel, and
she had a very lovely way in drawing the
young mothers into the society, also young
girls.
	She and her counselors went and visited
the sisters and administered to them, and
gave them spiritual comfort as well. The
presidency and teachers have looked after
those that have departed this life, and have
given the help needed at such times;
they have laid them away as nicely
as those who could pay their own expenses,
and the society has furnished the means to
pay for their caskets also. Sister Willey
has gone in the homes when it was needed
and scrubbed and cleaned, and through sleet
and snow to do it. And so have some of
the teachers. The society has been a great
assistance to the bishopric in looking after
the needy. The society at one time gave
eighty-nine dollars to pay off a mortgage on
a widow’s home. In another case they gave
eighty-six dollars to assist in putting up a
room or two for another widow to make her
more comfortable, and the society has fur-
nished bed quilts, blankets, shoes, dresses,
underwear, and any of the necessities of
life and some means for missionary pur-
poses. Twenty-five quilts or more were
given through the winter. Some years there
have been sixty in the ward that have
needed some help.
	Through the excellent counsel of Bishop
Stoker the board sold their real estate, the
hall and grounds and granary for one thou-
sand dollars, and put it in the bank to be used
for building again when they thought nec-
essary. The hall had been used for enter-
tainments and schools, so it was not fit for
society meetings, and through the counsel
of the bishop as the wheat needed changing,
thought best to sell and put the money in 
the bank to buy wheat again, which was
eight hundred bushels, which the society
and young ladies had been gathering for
forty years.
	And the society always made a success
with the old folks’ party. For the last two
or three years the president saw that all
of the aged and widows or widowers, it
made no difference whether man or woman
that needed it to comfort them, received
from three to five dollars to make them a
Christmas dinner.
	At the reorganization of the ward’s Re-
lief Society a resolution was presented and
adopted of dividing the means accumu-
lated—two thousand dollars. One-half
should go to Bountiful First ward and
one-half to Bountiful Second ward. The
retiring officers have gone out with a good
record and with love to all.
