WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TAKING A STAND FOR THE RIGHT.
	Women the world over are waking up to
the fact that they form at least one half of
the world’s citizenship, and that as such it
is their right, and their duty as well, to
help direct its governmental policies.
	God, the Father of creation, made woman
co-equal with man and gave them together
the dominion of earth. The Scriptures say,
“He created him in His own image, in the
image of God created he him, male and fe-
male created he them. And God blessed them
and said unto them, Be fruitful and multi-
ply and replenish the earth, and subdue it;
and have dominion over the fish of the sea,
and the fowls of the air, and every living
thing that moveth upon the earth.” Mark
you, God did not give him dominion, but
them. God has always considered woman
and commissioned her as he has man. He
has sent his angel messengers to her, not to
her husband, whenever he had a work she
should perform. The Holy word tells us he
made promises and gave instructions to
woman as in the case of Sarah of old, also
the wife of Manaoh, and Mary the mother
of Christ. The Divine organizer even gave
woman the greater share in the joint earth-
ly creation, so that she not only forms one
half of the world’s numbers, but she is
bringing into life its entire population. This
fact doubles her interest and concern in the
affairs of civilization, for into whatever con-
ditions prevail she must place her precious
contribution of humanity.
	Man in his might and blindness has
wrested from Eve’s daughters their God-
given rights in the dominion, hence this
modern war which woman-kind is waging to
obtain them back again. The struggle is
surely divinely instituted and will ultimately
succeed, for the world’s problems to-day
are sadly in need of the decisions of pure,
high minded, God-fearing men and women.
	But we of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, are not obliged to fight
for this kind of recognition. Joseph Smith,

[Column 2]
under the inspiration of the Father, restored
to our sex a voice in public councils. As
we often express it, “He opened the door
to women,” by organizing them into societies
and leading them into church and civic re-
sponsibilities and privileges. Our Prophet
saw that laws were heavily overbalanced in
favor of the stronger sex who had so long
held undisputed power, and he gave women
the franchise for a great purpose—the pur-
pose of righting many wrongs; and in the
interest of truth and eternal progression;
and eternal progression admits of no back-
ward steps, it makes no terms with evil.
Our course in regard to this was marked
out by the Savior when He said, “Get thee
behind me Satan.”
	The State of Utah has also extended the
ballot to women, and it behooves us to use
its power understandingly and conscien-
tiously for the right and the right only.
	All the thoughtful and progressive people
of the civilized nations are aroused and ap-
palled at the dreadful and manifold evils
that at present are corrupting society. And
it is to assist the better class of men (who
invite help) to legislate against these evils
that they may be put under the ban and
power of the law, that women are striving
to have a voice in government.
	Now the eyes of the whole world are upon
Utah and her sister States where women
enjoy the franchise, to discover, by the way
we handle problems, if women really stand
for reform; to ascertain if women in general
will be a vital factor in bringing purity,
strength, and honesty into civic affairs and
equal responsibility in conduct, virtue, clean
habits and health into society.
	The enemies of woman’s suffrage are
eager to see us vote with those husbands
who place personal privilege and conven-
ience, selfish desires and business prosperity,
above moral advancement. They will be
glad to see the “weaker vessels” fail in pro-
moting or securing any legislation looking
towards higher ideals. On the other hand
the struggling suffragists are watching with
bated breath, ready to point with pride, de-
light and encouragement to any moral re-
form or civic betterment we may gain;
though we will suffer their just condemna-
tion if we haven’t the sense to grasp and use
our power.
	There is no course for us but to stand un-
equivocally for right living, correct princi-
ples and moral laws. Too long have some
men tried to persuade us that certain evils
were necessary, which admission is but meet-
ing said evils half way; while making
laws to regulate them is inviting them into
our civic midst upon a square footing, and
the institutions maintained to control them
have proven veritable hotbeds for the growth
of crime. When great moral issues are be-
fore us to decide we must not be swayed
like “reeds in the wind” by the sophistry of
those who have personal ends to gain;
neither should we be tempted from our
course by promises of earthly prosperity.
What does that amount to compared to the
saving of the souls of men? Nor should we
be frightened from our duty by the predic-
tion of worse evils. Will we believe those
who declare that we can have only a part
of right, only a little of the good, and that
it is useless to try for perfection?
	Do we forget that a high mark cannot be
reached except by a high aim? Did not
Jesus know what we were capable of when

[Column 3]
he commanded, “Be ye, therefore, perfect
even as your Father in heaven is perfect.”
	Every woman knows what is right, then
why should we hesitate and be persuaded
this way and that. It is the women with low
aims and wavering decisions who have
helped to bring about, in connection with
one-sided legislation, the double standard of
virtue that is blocking the wheels of present
day progress. When men, because of their
stronger appetites, began to fall into ill re-
pute did women put a check upon such con-
duct by withholding their society from the
wrong-doers? When they acquired harm-
ful habits and personal impurity did the fair
sex refuse to marry them? Or, were there
too many wavering ones to condone faith-
lessness and endure filthy habits until certain
men considered some vices their especial
privilege? At the same time the opposite
sex have scorned to wed any but perfectly
virtuous and undefiled maidens. They have
required virtue and irreproachable conduct
from the ones they expected to marry. And
the great majority of the gentler sex have
lived up to this ideal. Have women set an
equally high ideal to which men may aspire?
	If not, then they are partially responsible
for the double standard of conduct, and it
is quite time that women demand purity in
men, and that men reform from habits that
are considered indecent in women. It is
surely time that women demand and vote
for laws that will help to bring about this
imperative reform, which, though an appar-
ently ideal condition, is entirely practicable
and no more than just.
	In the use of the ballot women are re-
sponsible only to their God, and they must
vote according to the dictates of their con-
science, which should put the right above
every other consideration. What better can
we do than follow the teachings of Christ
who said, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God
and His righteousness and all other things
shall be added unto you.” Surely we can trust
the Master. And again, do we not believe
that right will prevail? And shall we not
be of those who help it to do so by taking a
firm and noble stand in its behalf? God for-
bid that we should come under the con-
demnation promised in the scriptures in the
words, “It must needs be that evil come, but
woe unto those by whom it comes.”
	There is a great moral reform wave
sweeping civilization from end to end. It is
not a fad, a fancy of the theorist or a pass-
ing excitement. It is a genuine movement;
a movement that is inevitable. It is the re-
turn swing of the pendulum which has gone
just as far as it can go in the direction of
licensed crime, sin, disease and suffering.
Civilization sowed the wind when it pro-
vided law-protected institutions where men
were permitted, unrestrained, to swear,
smoke, gamble, become intoxicated with
strong drink and debauch their purity. For
as their numbers increased, as they naturally
did with so free a privilege, the numbers of
their companions in crime, dubbed the “fall-
en women,” had to be increased in num-
bers also, and out of this demand and in the
effort to furnish the supply has developed
that commercial monstrosity—the white
slave traffic.
	Through these methods crime has become
so widespread that the sinners themselves
are appalled. Disease stalks openly through
the land hewing the innocent as freely and
relentlessly as the guilty. Civilization is
reaping the whirlwind. And there is hardly


enough left free from some pernicious habits
to pass legislation and create sentiment
against this terrible condition.
	Thus it is that we need patriots, martyrs,
men and women who will sacrifice business
interests, earthly possessions, power and
social caste, to work for the uprooting and
casting out of these disastrous evils and for
the establishing of a cleaner, purer, fairer,
social system.
	The deepest thinkers and the most moral
and high minded men in the world are work-
ing hand in hand with women for this great
reform. Should not we with our teaching
and training be with them in the vanguard?
Let it not be said that any body of women
in the world can place a higher ideal of life
or work harder to establish and maintain it
than the women of the Latter-day Saints.
						IDA S. PEAY,
							Provo, Utah.


