WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
“WELL DONE, GOOD AND FAITHFUL
			SERVANT.”
	A beautiful morning in the latter part of
May found us eagerly scanning the shores of
Old England, and waiting the landing of our
steamer the “Corlew” at the quay in Liver-
pool.
	We had just crossed the channel from Ire-
land, on our return journey from visiting and
attending the conferences held in the north of
England and Scotland, and lastly the confer-
ence just held in Belfast, Ireland. After visit-
ing the branch of the Church in Dublin, we
found ourselves wandering through the won-
derful Giant’s Causeway and visiting some of
the wild Irish scenes on the coast of Antrim,
and then dreaming the time away among the
beautiful Lakes of Killarney. I had been la-
boring in the mission field nearly two years,
when, in the latter part of April, President
Lyman had released me from field work, and
invited me and my missionary companion, Sis-
ter Farnsworth, and my little daughter May, to
visit with him some of the conferences where
there were no missionary sisters. We enjoyed
every minute of the time. I had borne my tes-
timony to the truthfulness of the Gospel in
homes, halls and in the street in the lands
and conferences we had visited.
	Before leaving London I had promised the
elders I would return and share the summer’s
work on the streets of that great metropolis
with them. “But you will be released very
soon,” they said, “then you will not come back
to London.”. These thoughts were in my mind
as we landed that morning in Liverpool. Tak-
ing a cab we soon arrived at “42,” so famed
in the missionary history of Liverpool. As we
stepped into the office, we were greeted by
President Lyman who, looking over his glasses
said to me, extending his hand to each of us,
“Where were you on Sunday, Sister Alder?”
By the way we had promised to attend the
conference held in Liverpool on that day. “In
Dublin,” I answered. “Did you hold meetings
in Dublin?” he inquired. Being answered in
the affirmative, he continued, “That is well;”
then added, “I was just going to mail your
release to London, but now you have come, I
will give it to you.” I now noticed that he
had a number of long envelopes in his hand,
one of which he handed to me saying, “Well
done, good and faithful servant.” As one in a
dream, I took it mechanically in my hand; at
the same moment my strength forsook me, and
I dropped into the nearest chair gasping, “Then
my work in this land is done!” “No,” he said,
“I know you desire to labor longer in London,
so I have made your release read, ‘to return
home at your pleasure after the sixth of
June.’”
	Sometimes I had thought it would be a
happy day when I should hear the welcome
plaudit, “Well done, good and faithful servant.”
But oh, the pain that was mixed with the
pleasure! Before me there instantly arose all
the fields wherein I had labored, and the faces
of many of the Saints rose to my view. Then
I was my own judge. Had I done all that I 
could for them; had I been patient, endearing,
loving; had I strengthened the tender wheat,
while their weak feet were being made fast
in the Gospel? Even as it is said that in an
instant of time the past life of a drowning man
stands up before him, so my missionary life
arose before me. I could think of nothing I 
had left undone, but oh, I wished I had done
more. I had not squandered the precious time,
but I felt so sorry I was so often weary. Oh
that I had had strength to do more! The
words of Holy Writ came to me now fraught
with a new meaning. “Well done, good and
faithful servant.” I had never understood
them before. Would that anticipated time

[Column 2]
bring the expected joy and happiness? I felt
that it would not, for it would mean to us, that
our record would be closed, this life be over,
all earthly opportunities for doing good be
past. 
	My heart beats were strange and painful. I
was so thankful that I could yet labor for
Christ; yet strive to win some soul to Him. I
rejoiced in the few scoffs and little scorn I
had borne for Him, it all seemed so insignifi-
cant now, and could I not have endured a little
for Him I would not be worthy of Him. “You
have filled a long, hard mission,” Bro. Lyman
was saying; “go home and labor among your
sisters and the Saints.” I felt that the authority
with which I had been invested had fallen
from my shoulders like a mantle, and my de-
sire to remain was swallowed up in my new
mission.
	Oh brothers, sisters, labor earnestly at home
and abroad. Some of His sheep are straying;
will you strive to bring them back? Some are
weaker than you, will you strive to bear them
up? Christ came to bring, not the righteous,
but sinners unto repentance, and know that
none are perfect, no, not one. Then some day,
when mayhap it may be said unto you, “Well
done, good and faithful servant;” you may,
holding some of His wandering sheep by the
hand, enter into His kingdom and enjoy the
rest He has prepared for those who have over-
come.
