			SECOND DAY. 
		MORNING SESSION. 
	Singing, “Praise Ye the Lord.” Prayer,
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams. Singing, “Guide
Us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	It was announced by President Wells that 
the morning session of the conference would
be devoted to genealogical work, a subject 
that at once appeals to all Latter-day Saints. 
Some work has already been done along this 
line in our societies, and it is to be hoped 
that the interest will grow and spread all 
over the Church. 
	Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune was intro-
duced as the first speaker, her subject being
“What the Genealogical Society Has Done.”
	Mrs. McCune stated that new effort was 
being put forth by the Genealogical Society 
to interest people in genealogical work and 
salvation for the dead; that when President
Wells was approached on the subject she 
heartily endorsed the effort and promised
the support of the Relief Society in the un-
dertaking. We are delighted that so many
younger people are interested in the work 
and are anxious to assist. 
	The Genealogical Society has expended
thousands of dollars for valuable books, and 
every cent taken for membership fees is ex-
pended on the library. The Society is anx-
ious to obtain valuable books as rapidly as 
possible for the great benefit of its members. 
Since the time the prophet Elijah appeared
to Joseph Smith and delivered the keys of 
salvation for the dead, the people of the 
whole world have awakened to the necessity
of gathering family records and thousands 
of people, regardless of denomination, are 
now engaged in genealogical work; many
societies have been formed whose agents are 
traveling far and near in search of data. This
interest is the result of the influence of God, 
and people of other faiths who are collecting
records are doing it for the benefit of the 
Latter-day Saints, although they do not
know it. The members of the “Mormon”
Church themselves are among the slowest 
to take up this work, and there are many
under the shadow of the Temple who have
not done Temple work for their own
parents. 
	Genealogical work has been taken up very
successfully in connection with the Relief 
Society in several stakes, beginning with

[Column 2]
Ogden, and we hope other stakes will follow
their example.
	Mrs. McCune closed by stating that the 
President of the Church has assured the 
Genealogical Society that the next building 
to be erected by the Church will be a library
for its records.
	Reports were made of the genealogical
work done in the following stakes: Utah, 
Davis, Jordan, and Ensign. 
	Mrs. Martha F. Keeler reported for Utah
Stake, saying that the presidency of the 
stake had called two women from each ward
to take the course of genealogical lessons, 
and then conduct classes where many had
been interested in the work of the society. 
Some of the wards, she said, maintained 
Temple funds, and Provo Fourth ward kept 
a Temple worker in commission practically 
all the time. The Utah Stake has subscribed 
for the Genealogical Magazine, and many 
members of the stake have taken out life
memberships in the Genealogical Society. 
	Mrs. Emma Strong, reporting for Davis
Stake, said that the genealogical work was
taken up by the Relief Society soon after 
last October conference. Classes had been 
organized in Kaysville, Farmington, East
Bountiful, and Centerville, and although
work had been practically suspended during
the winter months, it would be resumed
soon, as the societies were greatly interested 
and very enthusiastic. 
	Mrs. Hilda Larson, president of Jordan 
Stake Relief Society, said that two classes 
organized last fall had held successful meet-
ings and that the work would be resumed
immediately after the present conference. 
	Mrs. Cecelia Sharp Barker, of Ensign
Stake, told of the work done in this stake, 
wherein many members of the Relief So-
ciety and the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions had been enrolled in the genealogical 
classes held in the Bishop’s Building. Mrs. 
Barker gave examples of the necessity for 
careful and systematic work along genea-
logical lines and she urged full co-operation
in the work. 
	Two violin solos were given by Prof. Wil-
lard Weihe, accompanied by Prof. John J. 
McClellan.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang “O Dry
Those Tears,” and was accompanied by Pro-
fessors Weihe and McClellan. 	
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates spoke on the subject,
“How the Genealogical Work Can be Util-
ized by the Relief Society.” “There are
two ways by which the genealogical work
can be secured: First, by the officers of 
the Relief Society writing directly to the 
board of the Genealogical Society; or, sec-
ond, by obtaining the work through the 
stake presidents, as was the case in Ensign 
Stake. Eventually the Genealogical Society 
will take up the matter through correspond-
ence with every stake in the Church and 
ask that work be taken up. 
	“It is to be hoped that some day there
will be temples in every stake, but what can 
be done in these temples without genealog-
ical information, which lies at the very root 
of the work to be done? Much time is 
wasted in our temples today by people com-
ing with incomplete records.”
	Mrs. Gates briefly reviewed the work done 
in the various stakes and in the B. Y. Uni-
versity at Provo. She stated that these 
classes are at the disposal and command of 
the stakes, and teachers are ready and will-
ing to give the information. She rejoiced

[Column 3]
that a temple was to be built in Canada, and 
stated that temples will be built just as fast
as we discharge the obligations resting upon 
us with regard to these matters. “This work
belongs to God, but it rests on the shoulders 
of the individual members of the Church
and can progress no faster than the indi-
viduals themselves permit.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith continued the 
subject of salvation for the dead, and felt 
that many people were inspired and helped 
in this direction by communication with the 
spirit world in the form of dreams and other 
manifestations. The speaker related several
instances to prove this assertion. She re-
ferred to the manner of laying away the 
dead and hoped that all would be worthy 
of the clothes placed upon them. 
	Singing, “Praise God From Whom All
Blessings Flow.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
 
