		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Singing, “Come, Come Ye Saints.” Open-
ing prayer, Mrs. Alvira Cox. Solo, “O,
Shining Light,” by Hugh Dougall. 
	The officers and members of the General 
Board of Relief Society were then presented
by the Assistant Secretary and were sus- 
tained unanimously. 
	President Wells expressed regret that 
President Smith was unable to attend the 
afternoon meeting, but hoped that some 
member of the Quorum of the Apostles
would be sent in his place. In the meantime
members of the Board would make brief
addresses.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams spoke
briefly, outlining the addresses of the previ-
ous speakers in the conference, dwelling es-
pecially on the sanitation movement, and 
urging the women of the Society to take the 
lead in their respective communities in im-
proving sanitary conditions. She mentioned
the necessity of understanding health prob-
lems in order to preserve bodily strength 
and to prevent disease. Typhoid and other 
diseases which so heavily draw on the life
of the race can be kept down by proper care 
in the home. 
	She heartily endorsed the work of the 
redemption for the dead and hoped that all 
would be brought to realize the beauty of the 
doctrines of the Latter-day Saints and use
every effort to help those who are not so
blessed.
	Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings suggested that 
the members of the Society should count 
their blessings and include among these 
blessings the fact that they are living in a 
day and age where clean and pleasant sur-
roundings are available for all. She urged
the members to assist in the campaign for 
cleaner homes and surroundings, asking all
to try to make conditions under which they
live actually hygienic. She said that more 
sympathy should exist between parents and 
children and that they should be closer com-
panions, also that children should be taught
while small. 
	Mrs. Jennie A. Hyde recounted her ex-
periences as a member of the General Board
in visiting the various stakes, referring to 
one in Arizona where the women had con-
structed a steel elevator and another in 
Utah, South Sanpete Stake, where the So-
ciety had realized $3,700.00 from the sale
of “Sunday eggs;” and still another stake 
where the Relief Society had collected and


contributed $1,600.00 toward the tabernacle
building fund. She urged all to live up to
the understanding of the Gospel as revealed
to us.
	Solo, “Sweet Spirit, Hear My Prayer,”
by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	President Wells endorsed the words of
the other speakers and recounted experi-
ences in the early days of the Relief Society,
emphasizing the value and breadth of the
work. She expressed regret that more of
the deeds of the members of the association
has not been recorded, thinking that many
were worthy of conspicuous places in the
history of the Society. She expressed the
hope that faith is not dying out among the
young people and, to refresh the memories
of the younger members on important inci-
dents of pioneer history with which she is
so familiar, President Wells related the
scene of the transfiguration of Brigham
Young, saying that she had witnessed it,
and that she knew the mantle of Joseph
Smith came upon him. She spoke also of
the resemblance of President Joseph F.
Smith to the Prophet Joseph.
	The conference closed with singing
“Daughters of Zion,” by a choir under the
direction of Lizzie Thomas Edward, and
prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon.
			AMY BROWN LYMAN,
					Assistant Secretary.


