Where mingle threads of anguish, pain and
	joy and strife.


Hearts still will throb and tremble, when love's
	fingers touch the strings;
Sweet music blend with sorrow, where a lin-
	gering cadence rings;
Our mountains, rivers, valleys cast a halo on
	the soul,
That will touch the hills eternal, when life's
	billows cease to roll.
						S. E. R.,
April 28, 1913.		Mesa City, Arizona.


[Column 1]
		JULIA CRUSE HOWE.
	“Sweet thoughts are mirrored in her face
	And every motion is a grace.”
	Sincerely indeed, will these words find re-
sponse in the hearts of those readers whose
privilege it has been to come within the 
charmed circle whom Sister Howe calls
friends. To the writer, she has always 
seemed the embodiment of gentle dignity in
which refinement and culture and natural 
grace were combined.
	Having just completed her ninetieth year,
she is one of the few who are left to us
from among that group of close friends
which included Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H.
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elmina S.
Taylor, Presindia L. Kimball, M. Isabella
Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, Hannah T. King,
Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Maria W. Wilcox,
Elizabeth Howard, and our dear “Aunt
Em” Wells, most of whose names are found 
inscribed with loving tributes in the auto-
graph album of Sister Howe.
	To one born in Utah, after the pioneer
stage was passed, the life story of a woman
like Sister Howe is full of peculiar interest,
although much must of necessity be omitted
in one brief sketch.
	Julia Cruse was born at Boxford, near
Newberry, Berkshire, England, on the sev-
enteenth of June, 1823. Her parents were 
James and Mary Joyce Cruse, and to them
were born six girls and one boy, of which
children Julia was the youngest.
	A religious influence pervaded their
home. The children were taught to read

[Column 2]
the scriptures; family prayer was conducted
morning and evening, and the parents lived 
up to the best light and knowledge they
possessed. In spite of this condition, Julia
was not satisfied. “She to higher hopes
was destined,—in a finer mould was
wrought, and tempered with a purer flame.”
	The teachings in the Church of England
concerning infant baptism and hell were
responsible for her state of mind, and she
could not see the justice in condemning
pure little children to everlasting punish-
ment merely because parents failed to have
them christened. The death of a beloved 
companion who had not been christened
was also a great source of sorrow to Julia
because of this belief.
	While grieving for her friend and think-
ing she had gone to hell, Julia had a dream 
in which she went in a beautiful chariot to 
a city whose streets were paved with gold,
and all else was in keeping. As a jeweled
door swung open for Julia to enter one of
the mansions, she awoke with the thought
that she had visited Heaven and her ideas
were so changed thereby that she grieved
for her friend no more.
	Owing to ill health, several years of the
young girl’s life were spent with a married
sister, on the Isle of Wight.
	She became engaged to a young man of
good character and returned home to pre-
pare for her marriage.
	She found the household in confusion and 
her mother in tears because an older sister
had “disgraced” the family by joining the
“Mormons.”
	Her father being spiritually minded, said
to the weeping mother, “He that judgeth a 
matter before hearing it, is not wise.”
	Being thoroughly familiar with the
scriptures, but a short time was needed to 
convince Julia that her sister’s belief was in
accordance therewith, and soon she became
converted and was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on April
6th, 1849, and afterward both her parents 
joined the Church.
	An estrangement now having come be-
tween herself and her betrothed, Julia and
her sister left England for America in June,
1849.
	Before they left England, her father
blessed the daughters and to Julia, gave 
the promise that she should live to do a 
work of great importance, that her parents
would not live to accomplish. Upon arriv-
ing in America the Cruse sisters located in
St. Louis, Missouri, where they passed
through many interesting and some trying 
experiences, one being a fire which burned
almost everything they had, but through
the assistance of warm friends and their
own efforts they were soon made comfort-
able again.
	While in St. Louis, Julia met Amos
Howe, a skilled mechanic who was identi-
fied with the local branch of the Church.
In June, 1850, she became his wife, and for
fourteen years the Howes lived in St. Louis
and New York, where Mr. Howe was en-
gaged in construction work involving great


[Column 1]
responsibility, and where his superior abili-
ties along this line were highly appreciated.
	During these years five children were
born to them. The eldest two died in in-
fancy, leaving three sons, Edgar, George,
and Charles.
	They kept open house for the Elders and
had the pleasure of entertaining many dis-
tinguished members of our Church, among
them being Apostles Erastus Snow, George
A. Smith and Joseph F. Smith.
	In 1864 they came to Utah, locating in
Salt Lake City, where they found a warm
welcome awaiting them by the many whom
they had so hospitably entertained. Mr.
Howe became one of the strong business
men of the community.
	Sister Julia has been an indefatigable
worker in the various Church organiza-
tions, almost from the time they were be-
gun, until failing health and advanced age
necessitated quiet and rest.
	She acted as a teacher and afterward as
treasurer of the Seventeenth Ward Relief
Society. She organized a sewing class to
assist the Relief Society, which was called
the Junior Retrenchment association, and
this afterward became the Mutual Improve-
ment Association, of which Sister Howe
was President, for quite a number of years.
When the Primary Associations were estab-
lished she was made President of the Ward
association, and she served also as an aid
in the Relief Society Board of the old Salt
Lake Stake. She was a Sunday School
teacher for many years, and quite a num-
ber who were associated with Sister Howe
in Sunday School, Mutual, or Primary
work, and who were taught by her have
since attained prominent positions in various
Church organizations. Among these might
be mentioned Sister Maria Y. Dougall,
Clarissa S. Williams, Ann D. Groesbeck,
Elizabeth C. McCune, and Ida Felt; also
Brother George Albert Smith and others.
Her testimony of the gospel was always
most fervent and convincing.
	It was Sister Howe’s custom in years
gone by to entertain the widows and or-
phans and others in the ward who were
less fortunate than herself. She was most
generous in her contributions, spiritually,
physically and financially, and both she and
Brother Howe were ever ready to give of
their substance at all times to assist in the
work of the Lord.
	In these labors of love, Sister Howe en-
shrined herself in the hearts of hundreds
who have been blessed and benefited by her
wise counsels, her kindly admonitions, and
above all, by the beautiful example of her
daily life.
	“A spirit pure as hers, is always pure,
even while it errs, as sunshine broken in a
rill, though turned aside, is sunshine still.”
The prophetic promise of her father has
been fulfilled, not alone in the faithful per-
formance of these public duties, but in her
unceasing efforts to obtain genealogical data
and carry on her Temple work. For the
purpose of obtaining more complete records
she visited her birthplace in 1886 and was
highly successful in her quest. It is worthy
of note that she has lived to have the work
done for every one of the hundreds whose
record she was able to obtain. And now
at the age of four score years and ten she
rests quietly in her comfortable home await-
ing almost anxiously for the Father’s call.
	Perhaps no more fitting close could be

[Column 2]
given to this imperfect little sketch than to
quote the words written on a page of Sister
Howe’s album  by one of her “girls.”
	“The beauty of holiness beaming through
your life is an energy of moral suasion
greater than precept, command, or warn-
ing. The seen but silent beauty of holiness
speaks more eloquently of God and duty
than the tongues of men and angels.”
