THE N. E. A.
	The great event of the “City of the
Saints” this summer is the National Educa-
tional Convention. The people of Utah are
most happy in their entertainment of stran-
gers, and the opportunity of opening our
gates to the educators of the nation, was
highly appreciated. Every possible detail
of entertainment was so carefully studied
out by the various committees that when
the opening day of the convention arrived,
the city was marvelously beautiful with
flags and banners, and electrical displays.
All the women’s organizations of the city
kept open house for the visitors, and hos-
pitality and friendliness was evident on
every side. That the visitors from afar
should enjoy their sojourn in Salt Lake City
was the desire of all the people, and the
people, in return, would undoubtedly gain
much from the lectures and discussions of
these great thinkers.
	A feast of knowledge is a goodly thing,
and those who are wise take advantage of
so rare an opportunity to attend and im-
bibe the learning offered at the various
meetings where these noted educators dis-
cuss and declaim on the great problems
that confront the world today.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
		ANNIE W. LARSON.
	Sister Larson, first president of the
Emery Stake Relief Society, died at the
home of Bishop Sam Larson, Castle Dale,
Utah, May 22, 1913, after suffering many
months. Sister Larson was born October 1,
1832, and came to Utah Sept. 27, 1862.
Soon after her arrival in Utah she was mar-
ried to Christian G. Larson, a former presi-
dent of the Emery stake.
	
[Column 2]
	She acted as counselor to Sister Mary
Ann Hyde in the first Relief Society of
Sanpete stake and was chosen president of
the Emery Stake Relief Society, July, 1882,
which office she held for nineteen years.
	She has led a beautiful life, which is
worthy of imitation. She has been kind,
patient and loving to the many children in
the Larson family, who respected and loved
her as a mother.
	As a leader among her sisters in the great
Relief Society work, she will always be re-
membered.
	It was Sister Larson, when president of
Emery stake, who gave the first donation to
the fund for a woman’s building, the money
thus given having been raised by the sale
of “Sunday eggs.”
	She observed the commandments of God,
and was true to the gospel of Christ.
	We resolve in our hearts to endeavor to
be as faultless as she has been, that we may
go where she has gone. That we may be
joined with her in friendship, companionship
and in the ties of sisterly love. That we
may find the emerald gates of Paradise open
for us as they are now open for her whom
we love.
