WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
MARY JANE WHITE HINMAN, RELIEF SOCIETY
	PRESIDENT OF ALBERTA STAKE.
	On Sunday, April 20th, were held the
funeral services over the remains of Mary
Jane White Hinman. The tabernacle
at Cardston was almost filled with sympa-
thizing friends. As the large number of
relatives and fellow workers entered the
building, the congregation arose en masse.
Following immediately behind the sorrow-
ing husband and children, were the fellow
workers in the Relief Society, representing
most of the wards in the stake. Nearly all
were dressed in white and bearing the many
and most beautiful floral offerings, the scene
was of solemn grandeur and one long to be
remembered by all present. The services
throughout were most impressive. Symp-
thetic and comforting remarks were made
by Elders Johannes Anderson, Josiah A.
Hammer, Ammon Mercer, David H. Elton,
James T. Brown, President Edward J.
Wood, Patriarch H. M. Brown, and Sister
Sarah B. Davis of the stake board of Relief
Society. Elders Thomas Duce and Sterling
Williams made the opening and closing
prayers respectively. Beautiful music was
rendered by the choir and a quartet, consist-
ing of Mrs. Grace Cazier, Mrs. Ida Brown,
and Frank Layne and A. B. Cure. The
soloist for the occasion was Mrs. Mary
Leadbetter.
	Mary Jane White Hinman was born at
Farmington, Utah, April 5, 1853, where she
lived with her parents until her marriage
with Henry L. Hinman Nov. 18, 1874. She
continued to make her home here until she
moved to Canada in June, 1890. There were
born to her in Farmington three sons and
three daughters, and after her arrival in
Cardston two more sons were born. Jan-
uary, 1892, she was chosen counselor to
Zina Y. Card in the Y. L. M. I. A., which
position she held until August, 1894, when
she was appointed president of the Y. L.
M. I. A. in the Cardston ward. Two years
later, on Aug. 24, 1896, Aunt Jane was
chosen as second counselor to Mary L.
Woolf in the Relief Society in the Alberta
stake, which position she held until Nov. 14,
1909, when she was appointed president.
This position she held up to the time of her
death. She was a true, faithful Latter-day
Saint, and was ever ready to defend the
faith. She was loved by all associated with
her. She was one of the few who could
always be depended upon and whose word
was seldom if ever broken. During the past
two years she has suffered greatly. Sister
Hinman died April 13th at the Latter-day
Saints hospital, Salt Lake City, following
an operation, surrounded by sorrowing
friends and loved ones. A funeral service
was held in the undertaking parlors, about

[Column 2]
forty Canadians being present, among them
both of her counselors and the stake Relief
Society treasurer. The body was then
shipped to Cardston, and was met at Great
Falls by her sons Scott and Willard. As
the train which bore the remains drew near
the band played “Nearer My God to Thee,”
in the presence of friends who had gathered
there to do honor to the departed sister.
	The sympathy of the whole community is
with those who mourn, especially with the
bereaved husband who is in his seventy-sixth
year, and who for the past twenty-three
years has been cared for by his devoted wife.
			JANE W. BATES, Stake Sec.

