[Vol1 | March 1914 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Home Ethics]

HOME ETHICS (20 minutes) Lesson IIL Ten minutes' talk on Current Events.
Sanctity of the Family Love Should Rule: "A house divided against itself can not stand." Mutual Confidence: (a) Prayer.
Every home should be a house of prayer; the influence of such will reach to the ends of the earth and eventually draw back to its shelter even the hearts of wayward children. (b) The glorious sisterhood of women opened up by the organization of the Relief Society at Nauvoo, 111., March 17, 1842.
Home Education is the Foundation of Society. (a) Home education. (b) How the conduct of parents affects the children. (c) Home education as important as the building of a city or nation. (d) Each word and act has an effect for good or evil. (e) Young people need anchors. (f) Pure and refined parents bequeath these tendencies to their children. (g) No one else does, or should have the influence with children that fathers and mothers have.
If the thoughts of parents were more centered in their homes, and if they were as earnestly exercised in the consideration of ways and means for rightly educating the moral and intellectual natures of their children as in procuring food and raiment for the perishing body, they would render a service to society as important as if they built a city or founded a nation.
Fathers and mothers do not always realize the vital importance of their every word and act on the minds of their young sons and daughters.
The impressions formed in childhood are lasting, hence the necessity for constant watchfulness in this regard.
Home surrounding and influences are strong elements in laying the foundations for a life of happiness and usefulness, in more ways than one.
Young people need an anchor; there is a period in their lives when they have sand-bars and danger points to steer past, and if, in their homes, there is the binding chords of a sure anchor those safeguards will bring them into a good harbor eventually, with but few exceptions. :  No one else does, or should have the power to shape the destinies of our children that the parents themselves possess.
Innocence and kindliness are inborn, culture and education acquired; but neither of the latter have sufficient influence without the possession of the former qualities.
We have some times met the most perfect ladies and gentlemen in log cabins, and uncouth, ignorant and selfish people living in homes of grandeur and beauty.
The costly dress does not indicate the superior character.
What is it makes a lady? 'Tis not her outward dress, But a spirit taught by wisdom A willingness to bless.
A soul that loves all virtue, A heart both meek and kind, Will mould the human character And add culture to the mind.
March