[Vol1 | March 1914 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Benefit Insurance]

BENEFIT INSURANCE FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
The General Board of the Relief Society have been considering for some time the advisability of introducing insurance as one department of our many activities.
Insurance has proved to be a step in the right direction in many ways and; whatever there is of good or profit for women, this we eagerly seek to incorporate in our work. "With this end in view, a letter was addressed to the First Presidency and an answer received.
We append both letters, which are self-explanatory.
This matter will be laid fully before you at the coming April Conference.
Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 21, 1914.
Pres.
Joseph F.
Smith and Counsellors Dear Brethren: We would like to know your mind in
14 regard to introducing some benefit insurance into the Relief Society.
A number of social and other insurance companies for women are doing quite a profitable business in this community, among them being the Ladies of the Maccabees, the "Women of "Woodcraft, The Rebecca Lodge, as well as others.
These fraternal orders for men and women took out of the state last year $177,213.79.
The Ladies of the Macabees alone took out $11,455.91.
Some of our sisters join those lodges, while others take out the small benefit insurance from regular companies, some of them located in foreign lands.
The idea of having a little fund put by with which to meet burial expense is very attractive to our women.
Our sisters have contributed liberally to every form of charity and public activity, such as the building of temples and meeting houses, schools and amusement halls; while doing very much towards furnishing these places.
Few have acquired the saving habit, and fewer still are inculcating saving habits in the minds of the young children of today.
Too many of our sisters, when they die, are left to the indifferent mercy of relatives, or to the ward authorities.
They would be glad to be placed where they could have this last liberal service performed without being a burden on anyone.
They could, and many would be willing, to pay a small sum monthly which would insure them their modest burial expenses.
Some of our young sisters would gladly pay a small monthly sum that would mature in five, ten, or twenty years. "While most children could be taught to put by small sums monthly towards paying for their schooling or missions when old enough for that need.
The habits of saving would be of more value to them in developing character than the monetary benefits. "We have applied to the Beneficial Life Insurance Company which has our President Joseph F.
Smith at its head, and which is also officered by our own brethren, to give us rates and details of such a scheme as we have suggested. "We enclose a copy of the rate list made out for us. "We would expect to work entirely through the powerful, reliable and courteous company named.
Agents would be appointed in each ward and stake, but the business details would be handled by the Beneficial Life Insurance Company.
What premiums accrued to our Board over and above the running expenses would be turned to Relief Society work.
 "We lay this matter before you, and trust to hear from you as soon as convenient. "We are Your sisters in the Gospel, Emmeline B.
Wells, President.
Clarissa S. "Williams, First Counsellor, Julina L.
Smith, Second Counsellor, Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 27, 1913.
Prests.
Emmeline B. "Wells, Clarissa S. "Williams, Julina L.
Smith, Relief Society.
Dear Sisters: "We approve the suggestion outlined in yours of the 21st inst., to introduce and maintain a system of benefit insurance in connection with Relief Society, believing that this departure from relief work would be a means of supplying an income for the Society itself, as well as be the means of inducing and encouraging our sisters to form the habit of saving means which otherwise would doubtless be disposed of unwisely.
It is understood by us that the officials of the company with whom you have been talking in regard to this matter are to render you all the necessary clerical assistance, especially at the outset, also that the company is to furnish the Society with the necessary books, etc., and otherwise co-operate with you with a view to making this movement the success we all wish it to become.
Your brethren, Joseph F.
Smith, Anthon H.
Lund, Charles W.
Penrose, First Presidency.