[Vol2 | November 1915 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
GUIDE  LESSONS.  469 
every  possible  name  with  dates,  real  or  approximated ;  properly 
number  each  name,  state  the  relationship  to  the  heir ;  and  after 
this  has  been  done  in  the  note-book,  copy  it  carefully — where  it  is 
pedigreed  information  of  the  dead — into  a  Family  Record  for 
Temple  use. 
This  done,  the  student  will  wish  to  know  where  next  to  turn 
for  further  information. 
Correspondence  with  living  relatives  and  friends,  with  parish 
priests,  pastors,  and  clerks  in  the  town  from  which  the  student 
emigrated,  from  or  whence  his  parents  and  progenitors  came — 
these  sources  of  information  must  next  be  tried. 
Letter  writing,  on  this  subject,  is  of  a  peculiar  importance. 
The  writer  must  exercise  tact  and  wisdom.  He  or  she  must  write 
courteously  and  fully,  must  state  exactly  what  is  wanted,  and  give 
enough  information  to  elicit  the  data  which  is  desked  from  the 
person  who  receives  the  letter. 
^^'e  suggest  that  such  writers  always  enclose  stamps  for  replx' 
PS  well  as  the  forms  prepared  by  the  Genealogical  Society  of  Utah, 
a  copv  of  which  we  give  here.  Your  own  data  which  you  send 
for  purpose  of  identification  may  be  also  written  on  this  form. 
Write  dozens,  nay  hundreds  of  times,  if  necessary.  Write 
again  and  again  and  again,  until  your  friends  will  answer  you. 
Never  give  up  until  you  have  exhausted  your  stamps  and  patience. 
QUESTIONS. 
What  are  the  sources  of  information? 
What  should  first  be  done  by  the  genealogical  student? 
To  whom  should  letters  be  written? 
Let  each  student  write  a  sample  letter  asking  a  relative  or  a 
])arish  clerk  for  genealogical  information. 
Note. — Such  students  as  are  familiar  with  the  lessons,  so  far 
given,  should  now  center  their  efforts  on  instructing  and  helping 
others. 
Home  Ethics  and  Art. 
LESSON  lY. 
November  23. 
ETHICS. 
SYMPATHY. 
The  tender,  unselfish  understanding  w^hich  is  called  sympathy 
is  one  of  the  most  Christ-like  traits  of  the  human  heart.  Jesus 
was  eminently  sympathetic  and  compassionate. 
Parents  that  are  wisely  sympathetic,  gain  and  keep  the  respect 
and  companionship  of  children  forever.  Children  are  not  always 
svmpathetic  because  few  children  are  naturally  mi  selfish.  It  is  a 
virtue  that  must  be  cultivated  and  properly  controlled.     Boys  and