HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion

"He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son: But He That Sleepeth in Harvest Is a Son That Causeth Shame." (Prov. 10:5.)

Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, 

OBJECTIVE: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman appropriate utilization of available foods.

INTRODUCTION Are we among those who subscribe to the philosophy that "the world owes us a living" or that there is real merit in getting "something for nothing"? Widespread among the peoples of the world today are various ideas such as these which, if we espouse them, undermine our self-reliance and jeopardize our ability to take care of ourselves. If we are mature and realistic in our thinking, we will know that life is not easy, that we must, in reality, earn our bread by the sweat of our brow, as the words of the scriptures tell us. We will know that we cannot rely or depend on others to take care of us and our families in time of need, but that we must put forth every effort to be self-sustaining in any eventuality.

The following words of President Brigham Young are just as applicable today as they were when he spoke them: "My faith does not lead me to think the Lord will provide us with roast pigs, bread already buttered, etc. He will give us the ability to raise the grain, to obtain the fruits of the earth, to make habitations and when harvest comes, giving us the grain, it is for us to preserve it—to save the wheat until we have one, two, five, or seven years' provisions on hand, until there is enough of the staff of life saved by the people to bread themselves and those who will come here seeking for safety. Will you do this? 'Aye, maybe I will,' says one, and 'maybe I won't,' says another.

'... The Lord has said it is His business to provide for His Saints, and I guess He will do it.' I have no doubt but He will provide for His Saints, but if you do not take this counsel and be industrious and prudent, you will not long continue to be one of His Saints—."

SOW, plant, buy half a bushel of wheat here, and a bushel there, and store it up till you get your five or seven years' provisions on hand.

(Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 293-94 [hereafter referred to as JD].)

AVAILABILITY OF FOODS Our families have been encouraged to preserve seasonal foods—fruits, vegetables, grains, and nuts—when they are abundant, by home preservation methods. These foods can be made available in the following ways:

I. By planting gardens at home whenever possible.
Z. By participating in home and/or group canning.
3. By purchasing from farmers, fruit growers, and markets when seasonal fruits and vegetables are plentiful.
By fishing and hunting in season.
By drying excess supplies of driable fruits and vegetables—prunes, apples, pears, apricots, corn, peas, etc.

To maintain high quality in home-stored foods, the following recommendations are made:

1. In storing wheat, the General Church Welfare Committee has recommended that dark hard winter wheat of a good grade with a moisture content of 10% or below should be obtained. (Methods of preparation and storage are readily available.)

2. The initiation of a rotation plan for stored foods is advisable to insure against spoilage. (Cans, jars, and packages should be dated.)

3. All stored food should be kept away from continual exposure to light and stored in a dry, cool, but well above freezing temperature.

Fruits, vegetables, and meats properly processed in glass jars will keep in a cool, dark, dry place fully as long as canned goods.

Lesson Department