Martha Ann Smith Harris By her Grandson Richard P. Harris
About the year 1837, while those who believed in the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith, the prophet, were enjoying comparative peace between the storms of persecution, the hearts of the Smith family were wrung with more than common grief by the death of Hyrum's young wife, Jerusha, leaving her husband and four motherless children. After the removal of the Church to Nauvoo, Hyrum married Mary Fielding, one of "those lovely English girls," as she and her sister Lucy were called. Although Hyrum and Mary very much loved the four children: John, who later became patriarch of the Church, and the three girls, Lovina, Jerusha, and Sarah, yet they were made very happy when a son and, two years later, a daughter, were born to them. The son, who was later to become president of the Church, they named Joseph Fielding, and the daughter, born in Nauvoo, on May 14, 1841, they named Martha Ann.
Martha's earliest memories were of going to visit her grandmother, Lucy Mack Smith, and of sitting on a little stool by her side; of seeing their dog Tige go to the store with a note in a basket and come back with whatever her grandmother had sent for; and of her father and her uncle Joseph holding her on their knees and stroking her head with their large soft hands. Her most vivid childhood memory, however, was of the death of her father, when she was but three years old. Hyrum had passed uninjured through many dangers, but this time Mary seemed to know what had happened. Far into the night she walked the floor while little Martha, just recovering from the measles, lay and watched her.
"Won't you come to bed, mother?" "My dear child, go to sleep, I will come by and by." Then after a while? "Mother, mother, come and lie down." "Not yet, my child, not yet."
Then finally a messenger came with news of the terrible tragedy and the widow dropped fainting to the floor. Later Martha was wrapped in a blanket and a man carried her a block from their home to the Mansion House and let her look at the bodies of her father and uncle.
Two years after this, Mary and the children, driven by the mob, barely escaped from the city of Nauvoo before its destruction. The mother had succeeded in getting provisions, bedding, wagons, ox-teams, her husband's big white horse, and a few other necessities, loaded on a flat boat and taken across the Mississippi river to Montrose, Iowa. The children were taken across in a skiff and they and their mother spent the night in their camp on the bank of the river listening to the bombardment of the city of Nauvoo, at that time the largest and most beautiful city in Illinois.
By going down the river to Keokuk, Iowa, Mary traded the real estate left by her husband for wagons, oxen, cows, calves, and four horses, with which she was able to get her family moved to Winter Quarters. In the spring of 1848 they left winter quarters, on their journey across the plains, arriving in Salt Lake City September 22, after more than three months of traveling. For their trip they had: four wagons (two of their own and two hired) and a big ambulance, each drawn by two yokes of oxen, except one wagon, which was drawn by two yokes of cows. They also had two more cows and some sheep which had to be driven along in the rear. Martha would do her share of the work, small as she was, gathering fuel and taking her turn at driving the loose cattle.
At one time a herd of buffaloes, which seemed miles in extent, came bellowing and running alongside the emigrant train and frightened the travelers very much, but it passed by on one side and no harm was done. The Indians who would come to visit the camp, very much admired Martha's golden hair and one chief wanted to buy it, offering his best pony for the two long braids, but her mother held the little girl tight and told them she would not cut her little Martha's hair if they would give her all their ponies.
The captain of the company, on one occasion, complained to Mary that she and her family were a nuisance and would delay the whole company. She turned to him and said: "Captain Lott, I will beat you into the valley yet, and I will not ask any help from you, either."
When about half way across the plains, one ox became very sick and dropped as if dying. This was a very serious situation, as they could not go on without the ox, and Sister Smith knew from experience that she could expect very little help from the rest of the company. She therefore brought her consecrated oil and asked her brother, Joseph Fielding, and others to administer to the ox, they did so and the ox was healed. It opened its eyes, drew up its feet, arose, and continued the journey.
One morning when it was time to yoke up, their oxen could not be found and the rest of the company went on and left them. An all day's search proved useless, and as night drew near, Mary, far from camp and feeling the task to be beyond her powers, knelt and asked the Lord for help. She had barely finished her prayer when she heard lowing in the brush not far away. She went in the direction of the sound, and there, standing in a little bushy ravine, were every one of her missing cattle. After thanking the Lord for the prompt answer to her prayer, she started them toward her camp, where she arrived with them late that night.
Just before entering the valley the company encountered a severe hail-storm which scattered their cattle in all directions and while they were still hunting for them, Mary Smith, who had been far enough behind to miss the storm, passed them with her little train and fulfilled her prediction by arriving in Salt Lake City on Saturday, the 22nd; while the rest of the company did not get in until Sunday. Sunday morning, Mary got the children all washed and brushed and dressed in their best, and Sunday afternoon she put them on the wagon and drove back to the mouth of the canyon to meet the rest of the company.
After this they settled on East Mill Creek, six miles south of Salt Lake City, where by hard work and good management they soon got a home built and had a comfortable place to live. Here the family lived in peace and contentment. Joseph and Martha, guided by the example and teachings of their mother, loved and treated as full brother and sisters the children of their father's first wife, and all grew up together as one happy family.
When Martha was "sweet sixteen," "the calico maid," with blue eyes and golden braids, she was married to William Harris, a young man of twenty-five, who was called on a mission before they had been married long enough to become acquainted. The courtship was short and the wedding sudden. William was milking at the barn one evening when Joseph F. Smith came out from town and told him he had been called on a mission and would be expected to leave within three days.
"Three days, why Brother Smith, I can't get ready to go on a mission in three days."
"Well, why not?"
"Because I would want to get married first."
"Well, why don't you?"
"Why, I don't think Martha would have me."
"Ask her and see."
So, after he finished the milking, he went into the house, and, as he has many times said since, in about five minutes they were engaged and a date set for their marriage. The parents were consulted and consented; arrangements were made for the wedding to take place the next day. A neighbor girl lent her wedding dress and the ceremony was performed by Joseph F. Smith in the presence of the two families. The next day was spent getting the missionary fitted out for his journey. The bride, barely seventeen, with the golden hair and she "sweet sixteen," "the calico maid," with blue eyes and golden braids. Their only honeymoon journey was the ride back to the farm. The mother had not been idle while they were gone, and she had a fine wedding supper for them, but the young bride was so excited with the thrilling experience and the suddenness of it all that she could not eat any of it. The other girls of the neighborhood heard about it and came in that night to congratulate the newlyweds and have some fun over the event.
After two more days of hurry and preparation, the missionary left with a company of seventy to cross the plains on his way to England. On this trip it was not the covered wagon, but the covered pushcart. Two missionaries had one cart for both of them. William and his companion had a fine handcart with red wheels and four little bows with a piece of canvas over them. In this they had to carry everything they took with them, including the food and bedding they would need on their journey. They traveled on foot to Boston and took the ship there. The voyage over was very rough, with the usual results. One of the other elders came to William, on an especially stormy day and said: "Billy, we are going down." "I don't care," replied William, "let her go." She did not go down, though, and William landed and preached the gospel to many.
Martha lived with her mother-in-law and helped her spin and weave, milk many cows, make butter and cheese, and do all the other household duties. She also taught school for two terms, and her husband's mother, taking advantage of an opportunity which she had not had before, sat beside her in the schoolroom and learned to read and write.
Then Johnston's Army came. Martha, with the rest of the family, fled south to Pondtown between Spanish Fork and Salem, and the missionaries were called home. By the time William got back, though, the trouble was practically settled and he met his wife and mother on their way back to Salt Lake. Not long after this William was plowing, and a young man named Joseph Abbot was walking along behind him carrying a brass kettle and dropping corn in the row, when lightning struck them, melting the brass kettle and killing Abbot instantly. William was knocked unconscious, badly burned and dragged for some distance by the frightened team. The Patriarch John Smith, happened to pass that way for the first time in three years, found him, got him to breathing again, and got help to take him home. Through faith and careful nursing William's life was saved, but he never fully recovered, and his wife and family had to suffer many hardships and privations that would have been avoided if he had been in good physical condition and able to work hard.
Four months after the accident their first son, William J. Jr., was born. Four other children were born in Salt Lake, where, for eight years, William served as a policeman. In 1866, during the Blackhawk War, William was called to go to fight the Indians, as second lieutenant in Heber C. Kimball's company. He furnished his own horse, saddle, bridle, and bedding, and was gone for three months, fighting the Indians in Sanpete county, leaving his wife to see that the family was provided for. The next year he was called to go to Provo as one of the minute men who formed President Brigham Young's body guard and one may still see the little adobe house where he and his family lived for years and where the six other children were born.
Martha always worked hard to help support the family. While they lived in Salt Lake she paid thirty dollars and gave six weeks work to learn the glove-making trade. For twenty years she made gloves, making forty to fifty pairs of gloves every fall and selling them for prices ranging up to seven dollars a pair. She would buy buckskin and beaver furs from the Indians as they passed through on the way to their winter camp.
Her children remember at different times seeing from six to twelve big buck Indians lined up along the fence to sell her their furs and buckskins. Some of the hides she would smoke and cure herself, but for the finer gloves she got Brother H. B. Smart, of the Provo Woolen Mills, to dress the skins for her. She made short work-gloves, fine ladies-gauntlets, decorated with silk embroidery, and stage-drivers' gloves with fur backs and huge cuffs decorated with heavy beadwork, and all of perfect fit and of the finest material and workmanship. When her children induced her to stop making gloves, because the work was too hard for her, she took up the business of making temple clothes, at which she worked until her death; even when she lay in the bed for nine months with a broken leg she would be propped up with pillows and work on temple clothes.
She has spent a large part of her life helping care for the sick and dressing and laying away the dead, very seldom receiving any material compensation for her labor and often giving of her own scanty clothing and food to poor homes where most of her work was done. It was truly said by her and her daughters that most of her work is under the ground; the finest of needle work and skillful embroidery, laid away to come forth in the glory of the morning of the first resurrection.
All of her eleven children grew up and were married in the temple, although only eight are still living. The death of one of her daughters left two little babies, a boy and a girl, whom she took and raised as her own until they were married.
standardized public opinion. The course culminated in interest in social legislation. As a member of the House of Representatives, of the legislature of the State of Utah, I found it apparent in all communities that the women in all rural districts had created public opinion which assisted materially in the passage of the following laws: voluntary commitment law for the mental hospital, law to regulate child placing, establishment of state welfare commission, provision for community recreation, Sheppard-Towner Bill. I had the great honor of introducing the provision for the acceptance of the