HOME ETHICS
======================================================================

HOME ETHICS Lesson VL Causes of Infidelity and Indifference to the Gospel of Christ: 1. If parents fail to live up to the principles in which they outwardly profess to believe, the child in the home will detect it. The religion that is but a veneer will destroy confidence in the family circle and will create a weakening of confidence, which will result in indifference to religion. 2. Parents have a first duty to teach their offspring the gospel of Christ which has been given solely for a guide to present action and a goal for future effort. How many children would know how to even try to be Christ-like, without this knowledge was obtained from the father and mother? We teach our children what their many pioneer ancestor? have done in the redemption of a desert, but neglect to tell them why they came. Are you assisting your sons to get an understanding of the saving power of the Priesthood and to attend their Quorum meetings faithfully? How to Choose Between Good and Evil. 3. An understanding of art will aid in teaching young people how vulgar and inartistic are rag-time and rag dancing. Take your children to Mutual and Primary, where they will learn the beautiful dances. Help them to distinguish and understand between the vulgar and common and the pure, the beautiful and dignified. Three great principles of art are 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. simplicity, dignity and technical rendition. Learn to dance perfectly, daintily, and yet with dignity. In topic 4 we refer to learning the principles of the Gospel so that we may know how to be good. A person once said to President John Henry Smith: "So and So is such a good man!" He asked in reply "What is he good for?" When no: answer seemed forthcoming, he said "Every man and woman: must be good for something, if their goodness is to avail!" From this we glean that we have a second duty as parents, to teach our children technically how to take part in the home activities and how to do something perfectly so that they may sustain themselves and not be a burden. Do you desire that your child shall grow up in purity and truth? Then see to it that idleness shall not destroy him. There is no surer way of training a child in the way he should walk than to teach him how to work, how to make something, how to add to the sweetness of home. There is no better way to teach fortitude, honesty, integrity, courage, dignity and self-respect than by making things with the hands, that are perfect in use and beauty. Not trying once, but daily receiving the same training which must go a long way toward strengthening the purpose and power of the child to live up to the principles of the gospel. There couldn't be a better saving machine than the getting of head and hand to work together in making something of use and beauty. How wicked to allow children to grow up without home cares, with no flowers to tend, no trees, no garden, but only a dirty yard, a filthy house. How dreadfully dulled will be the child who never learns how to play and "play fair." The boy who understands town ball, and plays well, and who "plays fair," will not be the one to raise prices when war gives him such an opportunity. Discussion. To what liberties is a child entitled? When should a boy and a girl be at home? When may the child be trusted away from home influence? Is the street a safe place for children? Why not? When is absence from home dangerous and destructive of modesty and virtue? Do you believe in the chaperone and why? What effect has the parents' example upon the religion of the child? What effect has neglect to teach the gospel on a child? What do you think of hypocrisy? Do you think that a person who does right for personal ends is apt to be a rogue and known as such to the child in the home? Why are work and competence saving powers? Why are idleness and incompetence destructive to true religion? In what  way do ugliness, filthiness, the low and inartistic tear down true religion?  RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 11 HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. "Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider her ways and be wise, which, having no guide, overseer or rules, provideth her meat in summer, and gathereth her food in harvest." Proverbs 6:6 7, 8. Most women, and especially the Latter-day Saints women, have developed wonderfully the instinct of providing against a day of need and want. In the early periods of the Church the teachings of the leaders, on this point, was most emphatic and necessary, for being isolated from the other parts of the world, with no means of rapid transportation, people were forced to raise practically everything they consumed, hence they learned the great and valuable lesson of planting, caring for, harvesting and providing for the next season's wants and necessities. There was never a more opportune time than the present to continue the practice of thrift and industry so wonderfully instituted by our pioneer fathers and mothers. Fall Planting: Do not neglect the golden opportunity now of putting your next year's garden in proper condition. Especially have it well drained and fertilized for bulbs. Rhubarb and asparagus beds should be given proper attention by loosening up the soil around the roots, and giving a good mulching. Great care should be taken in selecting seeds for next season's planting. Only those well matured and from choice plants should be chosen, then dry and sack or place in bottles or tin cans, mark and store them away in a cool, dry place where they will not freeze. Children can be taught to do this work and assist the parents. They will be more anxious next spring to help in the planting if they are taught the value of caring for the supply of seeds this fall. For lack of space in our last issue, pickle receipts and table of syrups was omitted. One pint of sugar to one gill of water makes a syrup of 40 degrees density. One pint of sugar to one-half pint of water makes a syrup of 32 degrees density. One pint of sugar to one pint of water makes a syrup of 24 degrees density. One pint of sugar to one and one-half pints of water makes a syrup of 17 degrees density. One pint of sugar to two pints of water makes a syrup of 14 degrees density. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. For preserving cherries, strawberries, etc., a syrup of 40 degrees density is used. For preserving currants, peaches, plums, quinces, etc., a syrup of 24 degrees to 32 degrees density is used. For canning blackberries, blueberries, cherries, peaches, pears, plums and raspberries, a syrup of 14 degrees to 17 degrees density is used. Brine. Ordinary brine is made by dissolving one-half quart of salt in twenty-five quarts of water. By dissolving one quart of salt in twelve and one-half gallons of water the percentage of salt in the brine is 1 per cent in one pound, 2 per cent in two pounds, etc. Allowing one-half-pint of water to each quart of fruit. "We are indebted to the Utah Agricultural College for the above table. In pickle-making use but the best brand of vinegar. Cider vinegar is considered less liable to have mould accumulate than malt vinegar. Pickles should be kept in a dark, cool, dry place and examined often for the first few weeks. If soft white spots appear, drain off the vinegar, add one-half cup sugar to each gallon, scald, and pour over pickles again bits of horse; radish and cloves assist in preserving the life of vinegar. Select fresh vegetables or fruits for pickling, using only porcelain kettles, never metal. "When giving pickles their first scalding, add to % gallon vinegar pulverized alum size of nutmeg; it will make them crisp. Do not add too much alum, as it is injurious. A medium spicing for a quart of pickles is a teaspoon of pepper corns (whole black pepper) same of allspice, a tablespoon of broken cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon of cloves, mustard seed or horseradish, 1 piece of ginger root an inch long  ginger is the most wholesome of the spices. Pickles made at home are more desirable than those purchased on the markets, as the latter are usually colored a beautiful green with sulphate of copper, or made in brass kettles, producing same results in an indirect way, and both are deadly poison. Vinegar should be brought to a boiling point only, as too much heat destroys its strength. Nasturtium pods make excellent flavor for mixed pickles. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 13 Oiled Pickles: 50 cucumbers (dill pickle size). 2 tablespoons celery seed. % pint olive oil. % pint ^ salt, lb. brown sugar. 2 tablespoons Utah black mustard. 2 tablespoons white mustard. 1 gallon vinegar. 8 good sized onions. Peel, slice cucumbers and onions, put them in layers with salt over night, drain in cloth bag until dry, place in stone jar with spices and sugar, pour oil over top, then cover with vinegar. They are excellent and easy to make.  J. A. H.  Green Tomato Pickles: 8 lbs. green tomatoes. 1 qt. vinegar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 4 lbs. brown sugar. 1 teaspoon mace. % teaspoon cloves. Chop tomatoes fine, add sugar and boil one hour, then add the other ingredients and boil about 15 minutes. Try this one, you will not be without it. J. A. H.  Spiced Pickled Grapes: Fill jar with alternate layers of sugar and bunches of nice, fresh grapes (either white or black), put in a few whole spices, fill 1-3 full of good, cold vinegar, cover tightly. J. A. H. Syrup does not add anything to the keeping qualities of canned fruits and is not necessary. Sterilization, good jars, good rubbers, lids and cleanliness are the essentials to be relied on. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. We wish to call the attention of the Relief Society officers and members, to the fact that the time is now here to begin active work in the interests of the Relief Society Magazine. It will be remembered that it was decided in the officers meeting at the last April conference that we would publish a monthly magazine devoted to Relief Society work. It is earnestly requested that the Stake Presidents take up 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. this matter at ounce and canvas their Stakes to secure paid subscriptions by the October Conference. This is necessary in order to have funds with which to begin work on the publication at once. Every effort will be made to meet the demands of the organization, in making the magazine a medium of instruction, along Relief Society lines, as well as educational and interesting. The price of the magazine will be one dollar in advance per annum, and it will be published monthly. It will require twelve thousand paid subscriptions to make the magazine self-supporting, and we expect each Stake to subscribe for as many as they have had free Bulletins during the present year. ANNOUNCEMENT. Three classes in Genealogy will be held during the Relief Society Conference in the Bishop's Building, Friday, Oct. 2nd, at 2 p. m., and at 5:30 p. m.. and on Saturday. Oct. 3d, at 5:30 p. m. This allows us to have our Relief Society Conference and our class work in the two days, Frida}" and Saturday, which will enable all to attend both of these important gatherings. Special delegates are not required, although it would be desirable to send those who attended the spring convention where practicable. These classes are held in response to a wide-spread appeal for more help in this work. NEW REPORT BLANK. The committee appointed to prepare a new report blank are at work and will be able to report at the October Conference. WHERE ANNUAL DUES SHALL BE PAID. Please do not send money orders or financial affairs of any nature to the President, Secretary or Corresponding Secretary of the organization. All money for yearly dues or for general Relief Society purposes of any nature should be sent to Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Room 28 Bishop's Building. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL The Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society announce that the next class in the Relief Society Nurse School will commence Monday, September 21, 1914, and continue eight months, in Salt Lake City. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be the instructor. It is requested that the Stake Presidents will at once consult with their Ward Presidents for the purpose of selecting intelligent and energetic women of suitable age and of good moral character to take this course in nursing. We sincerely trust that members of the Relief Society realize the value and necessity of this Course of Nursing, as it is a fact that 95 per cent of the inhabitants of our country cannot afford to pay the price of a graduate, hospital nurse, and yet our sick of the masses should receive trained and skilful nursing. We can also recommend this course in nursing as a much needed part of every young woman's education.' The tuition for the course will be $20.00, and it is expected that the Relief Society organization in each ward will pay the tuition fee for their representatives. However, any student who wishes to pay the tuition herself may do so, if she is willing to accept and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract, as published in the July Bulletin, page 14. For full particulars write Clarissa S. Williams. 37 North West Temple, or Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 79 C street. Salt Lake THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIX ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL Sc PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Relief Societies' Headquarters For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods. Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request. CUTLER^S, 36 Main Street SCRACE'S BAKERY and CAFE Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A GOOD PLACE TO EAT. E. L. SAUNDERS, Prop. Phone Wasatch 1230. 24 So. MAIN STREET THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK SALT LAKE CITY Bank It is the purpose of the Bank at all UTAH times to render helpful service, and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and Pleasant. Utah State National Bank Your Account is Cordially Invited JOS. F. SMITH, Pres. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 32233224 JENSEN'S BUTTERS OA'E QUALITY-TWO PACKAGES "Four-in-One" "Blanchard" FOUR CUBES STANDARD PRIJ^T What a delightful flavor these butters possess! We've off times been asked how we secure it. The secret lies mostly in the cream It,8 gathered from mile high pastures it's selected --the choicest produced. In making Jensen's Butters, the cream's full flavor is retained. Give Jensen's Butters a trial. W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Qo-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah A Grafonoia for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIK Also any records you want for any occasion  dance  popular  sacred, etc. Older than the State of Utah Write for Catalogue and FREE calendar. SEE McCONAHAY For Diamonds 64 MAIN ST. The Jeweler===Salt Lake $22 and up We are prepared to supply you with all books recommended for RELIEF SOCIETY CLASSES ALSO ALL RELIEF SOCIETY BLANKS, BLANK BOOKS and RECORDS DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE LEADING BOOK CONCERN No. 6 MAIN STREET ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. Factory Shoes A few of our most serviceable lines  Western Scout, Utah, Summit, Wyoming. "MOUNTAIN" or "THE LEADER" Overalls are honestly made. They don't rip. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake Cit^, Utah Marion Banks FINE Charlton's Millinery CLOAK & SUIT GO. Up=to=Date Styles AT REASONABLE PRICES for Ladies and GOODWIN CORSETS Misses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent on purchase at regular price Moved to 24^ South Main Street WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in ease of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgt. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $ 1 2,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOU^Q Member Ex. Com. Counsel