GENEALOGY
======================================================================

GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson II. Ten minutes talk on Current Events. Relationship "In thy seed shall all the kindred of the earth be blessed." Acts: 3:25. Following is the prevailing mode of designating relationship: The parents of your father or mother are your grandfather and grandmother. The parents of your grandfather or grandmother are your great grandfather and great grandmother. The parents of your great grandfather or great grandmother are your 2nd great grandfather and 2nd great grandmother. The parents of your 2nd great grandfather or 2nd great grandmother are your 3rd great grand father and 3rd great great grandmother, etc., etc. The children of your brother or sister are your nephews and nieces. The children of your nephews or nieces are your grand nephews or grand nieces. The children of your grand nephews or grand nieces are your great grand nephews or great grand nieces. The children of your great grand nephews or great grand nieces nieces are your 2nd great grand nephews or 2nd great grand nieces, etc., etc. Your father's brother or sister is your uncle or aunt. Your grandfather's brother or sister is your grand uncle or grant aunt. Your great grandfather's brother or sister is your great grand uncle or great grand aunt. Your 2nd great grandfather's brother or sister is your 2nd great grand uncle or 2nd great grand aunt. Your 3rd great grandfather's brother is your 3rd great grand uncle or 3rd great grand aunt, etc., etc. The children of your uncle or aunt are your (1st) cousins. The children of your (1st) cousins are your (2nd) cousins. The children of your (2nd) cousins are you (3rd) cousins. The children of your (3rd) cousins are your (4th) cousins, etc., etc. The children of your grand uncle or grand aunt are your 2nd cousins. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. The children of your great grand uncle or great grand aunt are your 3rd cousins. The children of your 2nd great grand uncle or 2nd great grand aunt are your 4th cousins. The children of your 3rd great grand uncle or 3rd great grand aunt are your 5th cousins, etc., etc. Rule:  The relationship is always counted FROM the heir to the dead. As: John Young (son), b. 6 Mar., 1763, d. 12 Oct., 1839. That is, Brigham Young, the Heir, is the "son" of John. It is very important to establish a relationship from the heir in the family to the head individual. For it is another clue by which to identify the dead. While it establishes our claim to our friends and relatives. Dates, names and relationship might be compared to the features of a man's face. The more clearly we can discern them the better is the chance for identification. There may be and are thousands of John Youngs, and there were certainly over nineteen John Youngs who fought in the Revolutionary War but only one of them was the father; of Brigham Young; so with all our names and relatives. In order to avoid confusion and duplication in temple work, it has been decided by the proper authorities that there shall be a limitation in the line which we are at liberty to follow in our ancestry. The four lines are, the father's line, the mother's line, the mother's mother's line, and the father's mother's line. If we desire to take up collateral lines pr to follow back our own ancestors' lines beyond this limitation, we may be permitted to do so if we first secure the consent of the President of the Temple in the district in which we reside. Secondly, we should write to the Deseret News Department of Genealogy notifying any one who may be of that lineage, of our desire to take up the line, and send up a similar notice to the Genealogical Society of Utah. This will make everything clear and avoid confusion. October ART  Lesson III. John Singer Sargent. John S. Sargent has been called the greatest portrait painter since Sir Joshua Reynolds, and many rank him with Van Dyke.  Even the great American (Whistler divided honors in Europe with his countryman, Sargent. These rivals in art, though both were compared with Velasquez, were totally RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. unlike, both as men and as artists. Whistler, ''the observed of all observers," loved company and fenced with words to the humiliation of lawyer, critic and wit. But for his etchings and paintings he hunted out subjects of which laymen never so much as dreamed. Forever divorced from the commonplace, his art was aloof, poetic and filled with mystery. John Sargent, on the other hand, built a wall of reserve about himself and kept the whole world at a distance. When he mingled in society he never became its life, nor even a part of it. Strange then, is it not, that he should choose his sitters from its devotees, the wealthy, the fashionable and the proud? He painted  those who could pay the price which was not small. Five thousand dollars is dear when the artist deliberately paints the worst side of his subject and even keeps true to the model, but ignores beauty. Instead of trying to please his patrons, Sargent often seemed to delight in showing up the shallow, the grasping. And still the crowds came for portraits. Whistler died in 1903, and the writer saw in all the local and international exhibits of 1904, his last pictures hung with crepe. Sargent still paints is perhaps even now painting the; portrait of Emperor William in Berlin or of Franz Josef in  Austria his whereabouts is unknown since war so suddenly enveloped Europe with her cultured peoples and treasures of art. Like Whistler and Brush, Sargent sprang from a race of fighters and statesmen, of men of science, whose mothers were artists painters. Whistler's life was one continuous battlefield. He forced recognition for his art, after long struggles. His many jeering, taunting enemies, he silenced with his tongue, but his brush and pen, mightier than legions of swords, won him, before he died, the tribute "As great as Rembrandt." On the other hand, Sargent was recognized from the first. He was born and   cradled in Florence, "name to conjure with." where his American parents were resting on their travels. He found painting easy, in fact, he could always paint and draw. This facility enabled him to finish a portrait in one sitting. Lest you should think Sargent one of those "natural born" artists, who thinks he need not study because of his great talent, let me whisper ever so lowly, Sargent thinks it not too much to paint a head and scrape it off thirty or forty times or until it suits him.  Then it is very near perfection perfect in color; fresh, clean, simple, vigorous, strong, and never marred by varying moods. That tells you. I hope, what a Sargent portrait means. Sargent, while abroad with his parents, learned to speak six languages with ease. but was loyal to his ancestry, and when  6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. offered the privilege of English citizenship by Queen Victoria, declined, claiming to be an American. He learned to paint at his mother's knee, and while a boy met Frederick Leighton, an English painter of note, who gave him encouragement. In 1874 he went to Paris and entered the class of Carolus Duran, who soon discovered his unusual talent. He was accepted at the Salon at the age of 22 and the following year showed a painting of his teacher which appeared to be the work of a mature artist. Sargent went to Spain to worship at the shrine of Valasquez; then to North Africa, where he painted his famous "El Jaleo, " now in the Boston Museum of Art. It is a dancing girl, swaying to the rhythm of stringed instruments. Already famous for his portraits, he returned to Paris to open a studio but it was in London that he made his permanent home. There favors and honors were tendered him. After three years he went to New York, his fame preceding him. The Americans crowded him with orders as they did always at each recurring visit home. In 1880 he was commissioned to decorate a hall in  the Boston Public Library. "The Frieze of the Prophets," and was well received by the Bostonians. The artist went to Egypt to make preparation for this work by studying Egyption color, sybolism and life. Edwin A. Abbey, another noted American, had also a commission and the two painters worked together for two years in England. The result was the "Sargent Gallery" and Abbey's "Quest of the Holy Grail," now to be seen in the Boston Library. In 1899 Sargent exhibited, under the Art Students' League, a large collection of his work, mostly portraits. Of his many portraits that of "Marquand" is one of the greatest. In 1907 Sargent was honored by being invited to paint a portrait of  himself for the Uffizi of Florence, this privilege is reserved for those who have conquered for themselves. Sargent would have made a great musician. Often he rests himself by playing Chopin and Beethoven. Could Sargent break through his critical shell of reserve more completely we would know better the real Sargent, the greatest Sargent, which has only been suggested in the Boston Library decorations and in one portrait called "Carnation Lily, Lily, Rose." This was only a picture of a child in a garden of flowers. Whistler, who liked to say clever, witty things almost as well as he loved to paint wonderful pictures, called it "Darnation Silly, Silly Pose." George De Forest Brush.  George de Forest Brush, the painter of not Madonnas  but "Mother and Child" is, in the humble opinion of the writer, the greatest of all Americans in art, save only "Whistler. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 7 He lives in Florence surrounded by the environment of the best Italian art. Brush has created his own style, which is very different from his two contemporaries, Whistler and Sargent. He has  chosen to portray the human emotions love of mother for the child, and teaches us the value of a few models well understood over superficial study of many. For years he has painted his wife and brood of little ones. His wife is a beautiful, refined, sensitive Swede. Is there a sweeter beauty than that of the Americanized Scandinavian? If you have the good fortune to visit the great American cities, look for a "Mother and Child" by Brush. There are famous ones in the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, Museum of Boston, Corcoran Art Gallery, and at the Metropolitan in New York City. The writer saw his famous group of Mother and Children. There were ' seven of the latter at last accounts. The cartoons which follow Brush invariably have a stork landing a new baby. The family group, already referred to, seemed filled with the decorative quality, with sentiment, feeling, purity of tone and color, and the handling so dextrous, so free from the appearance of effort, impressed the writer with much the same power as did the work of Whistler, Puvis de Chavaunes and Bottichelli. Brush is a native of Tennessee. He went to Paris and studied under Jerome, remaining at the Beaux Arts six years. He first painted the Indian and was so interested in this study that he lived among the Western red men a year and a half. He won marked recognition by "The Silence Broken" and "The Sculptor and the King," both Indian subjects. Marriage again opened his field and he now devotes himself, in the city of Florence, to painting his beautiful and artistic family, immortalizing them with his work. Artistic Europe will probably be destroyed in the great war now raging. The next art center must be America. It is well that our country has now such splendid art collections and so many artists who are entering the higher fields. When Europe emerges from her wounds she must come to our shores to be taught. Shall we be ready to do for her what she has so long and generously done for Americans? QUESTIONS. What opinion is expressed in Brush? Tell of his models and life. What do you think of his subjects? What does Hafen say of John Sargent? How did he become the greatest modern portrait painter? What effect has work had on his art? What is his sweetest work? What would you call the true 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Sargent? What of Sargent's present whereabouts? If the art of Europe destroyed in the present and approaching wars is where will the new art centers arise? What preparation have American artists made to each are in America, should the other great art centers be destroyed? What work must be done by the American people before they can sustain at home the many gifted Americans who will be forced to return to their native land for subsistence? Why should every American know who are our best artists and be posted on their art work? What do you think of the destruction of Louvain? Do you think the present wars are directly or indirectly the result of commercialism as against art? Where are Sargent and Whistler placed by Hafen? Read Hafen's letter. October