[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | December | Issue: 6 | Title: THE NEW L. D. S. HOSPITAL. | Author: Unknown]

THE NEW L. D. S. HOSPITAL.

lt is a matter of congratulation and re-
joicing that the L. D. S. Hospital is to be
opened Jan. 1, 1905. The great need there
has been of such an institution by our own
people has been keenly felt in the past and
to have such a magnificient building so
thoroughly equipped in every particular and
in all its departments is a matter of satisfact-
on and of justifiable pride.
To take the best care of the sick and
afflicted is one of the most laudable objects
of any community of people.
The Hospital building is situated on 8th

[Column 2]
St. between C. and D. and in appearance at
a distance reminds one of some of the an-
cient structures in England except that it
is new. It is built of buff brick trimmed
with gray stone. The rooms are all of them
pleasant, and give one the idea of cheer and
comfort. There are four stories above the
basement, the halls are wide and well light-
ed, the floors are of cement and laid with
English linoleum, the entire building is
properly ventilated. The reception room is
quite handsome with marble walls and tile
floors over the cement. There are eighty
rooms not including bath-rooms, closets,
toilets, laundry, etc. Forty-five of these
are private rooms furnished with every
modern luxury and appliance in the way of
convenience automatic tables, call-button
for nurse, telephone so that the patient may
communicate with her friends, and in fact
everything that the sick could need or de-
sire seems to have been provided for.
The dispensary and operating rooms sur-
pass in their style and furnishings anything
the writer has ever seen in the many hospi-
tals she has visited. We hope to give a
more minute description of the building, its
equipment and advantages in the paper

[Column 3]
later on, and now and hereafter seek to en-
courage the people who need hospital treat-
ment and care, to patronize this worthy in-
stitution, and especially should the Wo-
man’s Relief Society of the Church use
their influence in favor of sustaining this
noble enterprise, so long needed and so
much desired by the Latter-day Saints;
hoping that it may be successful financially
and otherwise, and prove a place of relief
for the sick, and wounded whatever the
nature of the malady may be, and in all re-
spects fill the expectation of its founders
and patrons.

