MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
		Continued from page 43.
	At Christmas time, three years and more
after Ned’s absence, (as his friends some-
times called him) and the Squire’s home
was filled with Bristol friends, mostly
young folks desirous of seeing a village
Christmas festival, and the Squire had in-
vited as many people from the mills as
could be accommodated The dinner was
to be at five o'clock, but as the day was
foggy, the lamps were lighted early and
gaiety seemed to reign within and without.
The Hilliers and the Cousins were there,
and many other mill hands. Mrs. Wind-
eyer seemed herself again, so old Dr. Gray
said to Fanny to whom of late he had been
devoted; but Fanny and Mrs. Windeyer
both seemed restless and apprehensive.
Dinner was over and toasts were being
given, but there was an awkward pause,
the guests not knowing exactly what
would be fit to propose, for each one pre-
sent realized the absence of the long-lost
son, who would have been the life of the
company, in fact the sorrow on his account
had been general in the community.
	Dr. Gray lifted his glass and was about
to speak. He had made up his mind to
propose a toast for the absent son, when the
boy himself, alive and well, appeared upon
the scene, fresh and blooming, in a mid-
shipman’s costume, his sailor hat with its
long streamers in hand, the golden curls
tossed back, and collar thrown open, dis-
playing a neck bronzed with sun and wind.
All eyes were fixed upon, him, and many a
glass dropped from the hands that held
them, shivering to atoms. Dr. Gray came
to the rescue; not a word, had been spoken, it
was like the dead come back again, the
doctor in a voice trembling with emotion
lifted his glass, “Here’s to the long-lost
lad returned to gladden hearts and home!”
“Speak, Edward, to your mother and fath-
er.’’
	Coming out of the fog and darkness into
the brilliant light, the young man was
dazed and totally unprepared for the scene
he had burst in upon; he came unannounced
to surprise the family, thinking it would be
a small party, though he had noticed the
brilliant lights; but when he saw the vil-
lagers, many whom he had known, he was
bewildered and speechless. He grasped
the situation, however, and graciously
withdrew, followed by his father, mother
and brother. Very little was said, the
company dispersed, Dr. Gray taking matters
in hand, the villagers withdrew, the guests
retired to their sleeping apartments, and
Edward though much in need of rest could
not sleep but sat long by the firelight of the
Christmas logs when all the lamps were
out, talking of his adventures to eager
listeners.
	He had not intended to go to sea, not
then, but he loved to see the ships sail out,
and to talk to the sailors. He was down at
the wharf and had been beguiled into one
of the many drinking places where a crowd
of fine, strong men were taking “grog’’ be-
fore going on board a great whaling vessel
that was anchored close by; he wanted to
see the ship pull out. He drank with one
of the lads, a fine young fellow about his
own age, and then went on board with him,
intending to get ashore again very soon,
but he fell asleep, and when he woke, all
was dark, and he could not recall where he
was or how he came to be in such a strange
place, for he could feel the motion of the


