[Column 1]
first time in his life. Mrs. Windeyer heard
the scathing rebuke and said placidly, “She
has gone to her grandma, whom she adores
more than anyone in the world.”
	Before she could say any more, Edward
had left the home forever. “I must find
her, dead or alive,” he soliloquized as he
strode off. “Fanny must know I’ve gone,”
and he dashed off a note in pencil as he
walked on, and mailed it before leaving
town.
	Those were not the days of telegrams and
fast trains, but he knew the road to East-
on, yet he questioned her going there. He
changed his mind and went direct to Bris-
tol, and though he knew it not, Margaret
had taken a coach a few miles out of Mer-
ton and gone to that large city. She was
not without money and had with her all her
jewelry.
	Arriving there he began his search, and
after one whole week he found her where
she had taken lodgings. She, was suffering
great mental agony. A doctor had been
called in, who had said immediately, “Send
for her mother,” then noticing the wedding
ring she wore, asked for her husband. Ed-
ward arrived opportunely, and wrote un-
hestitatingly for the one friend he knew he
could depend upon, Fanny Hillier, who
came as fast as horses could travel, Mean-
time a babe had been torn to the pale,
sweet child-mother, and Margaret was
happy now, after all her suffering, and re-
covered speedily. The young husband
was anxious to take his wife and child
home to Merton, but the little mother
would uot be persuaded to go. “No, nev-
er! Take me to my own home, to my
grandma, where I shall be always welcome.”
And her wishes were complied with.
	One cold morning, Edward, Margaret
and baby, accompanied by the faithful
Fanny, set off in a rumbling old stage
coach for the little town of Easton, only a
few miles off, and were put down at Grand-
ma Morley’s door. The old lady’s delight
was positively exhilarating when she saw
the happy party arrive. She had heard
nothing of the troubles and changes of her
darling grandchild, though she had warned
her against marrying Edward, when she
learned he had been at sea. “No more
parting now,” Ned said, when he saw
how delighted Margaret looked; and he
meant it then, but he did not measure his
own strength correctly. He was too near
the sea. Fanny believed in him, so did his
wife, but his resolves were vain. Very
soon a letter came from his mother re-
proaching him with ingratitude. “Richard
is ill, nigh unto death. Leave Margaret
with the nurse and come to us,” his moth-
er wrote. After this letter Edward was
worried and perplexed. His father had
sent money for all expenses so far, but his
wife and child needed delicacies, but he
must work. Another letter came from His
mother, upbraiding him with neglect, and
declared that unless he returned to them
with his wife and child, he should never
have a penny with her consent, and he felt
sure she would carry out the threat.
	“The sea wilt bear me away out of all

