[Column 2]
deavored to dissuade him from taking such
a course, or even entering into an engage-
ment while so young; and implored his
father to forbid the marriage, declaring she
believed it to be due to the interference of
Fanny Hillier, who, she said, seemed ever
her “evil genius.” At last the mother con-
soled herself with the thought it would
keep him at home, and she took the first
opportunity of inviting the young lady to
the house. After much persuasion and en-
treaty, Miss Morley at last consented to
beard the lioness in her home, so to speak,
for she was in mortal dread of Mrs. Wind-
eyee, having heard so much of her pride
and haughtiness.
	Once within the Windeyer home, Ed-
ward never left his fiance for an hour if he
could avoid it, lest his mother should
frighten her away, for she was as timid as
a bird.
	Mrs. Windeyer looked her over quizzi-
cally and inquired into her pedigree, every
now and then saying, “humph,” or “so he
was your uncle,” or “she was your grand-
mother,” with anything but an approving
tone or manner.
	After the visit of Miss Morley to the
Windeyer’s in their own home, Mrs. Wind-
eyer was still more opposed than before,
and said to her boy, “Ned, the girl has no
sort of family reputation to fall back upon,
she is only from the common people for all
her fine manners and accomplishments. I
wish you would give up this whim, you
will soon tire of those soulful eyes and
dainty ways she is not of good blood, she
has really nothing to recommend her go
back to Bristol and prepare for Oxford un-
der Professor Hadley, he will gladly take
you again, and you may marry among the
best families your father’s wealth would
be an inducement for any girl, and you
surely will regret it if you take this child
without either money or ancestry.”
	Even after all the entreaties it was possi-
ble for his mother to use, Edward persisted
in his determination, and Richard stood by
by him. saying, “Mama, she is lovely, and
sings like an angel. I love her myself
more than Ned does. I wish I could marry
Margaret: no one should hinder me, not
even my father, if I were older and she
would have me.”
	Mrs. Windeyer was puzzled, and in-
quired, “Who told you her name, Rich-
ard?”
	“She told me, and said I could call her
sister; and I will, no matter who dislikes
her besides, she is not so much in love
with Ned, it’s only his imperious manner
and she hopes to win him over to love home
and country life, and leave off sea-faring,
which will make him coarse and rough, and
wean him from those who love him so de-
votedly.”
	“Oh, is this all, Richard? We shall see
what Margaret will do anon. I am not
jealous of my little brother, but no one must
interfere, and mama, I must be the sole
judge in this matter of marriage, and shall
take this little village maiden who is with-
out anything to recommend  her, so you
say, and perhaps not much, save her inno-
cence and purity of heart and soul.”
	The Squire gave his consent willingly to
the marriage, and three months after the
young lady’s visit to Merton they were
joined in wedlock in the little church at
Easton, the town where Margaret Morley’s
parents were born and died. Mrs. Windeyer
would not consent to witness the ceremony,

