[Column 2]
		RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society,
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
cluded in stakes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare complete annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of February, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
				General Secretary.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.


A teacher in a day school said to one of 
her pupils, “Now, Tommy, spell needle!”
Tommy: “N-e-i-d le. needle.” Teacher:
“That’s wrong! There’s no ‘i’ in needle.”
Tommy: Well, it isn’t a good needle
then!”


Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney was the guest of
honor at the annual reception of the New
England Women’s Club on Oct. 31, and
there was a large attendance of members
and guests. Mrs. Howe and Mrs. Cheney
were presented with bouquets of violets
tied with long purple ribbons. There was
no speaking, but plenty of fine music, and
sprays of pink roses adorned the busts of
Samuel E Sewall, Theodore Parker and
Michael Angelo. When Mrs. Howe, Mrs.
Cheney, and Mrs. Judith W. Smith got
their heads together for a few minutes, one
member whispered to another, “Where,
outside of the New Jerusalem, could you
see another group like that?”


Woman’s Exponent.

The ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

