[Column 2]
this. I will go aboard a merchantman, a
few months’ voyage around the Mediterra-
nean, and when I return all will have set-
tled down, and I shall have plenty of money
of my own.” This was how he reasoned,
and at last Margaret bravely consented. He
sailed away true-hearted and strong, in-
tending to be gone only for a short voy-
age.
	Fanny Hillier returned home and an-
swered all the numerous questions of
neighbors, but Mrs. Windeyer would not
condescend to inquire even concerning her
own.
	Fanny’s father, however, kept the Squire
posted, giving him full particulars about
his little girl grandchild.
	Richard was very ill, and when the
Squire would sit by him alone, he would
tell him of Edward’s baby and promised
him as soon as he was well he would
take him to see little Ruth. Richard re-
peated to his mama that he was to go and
see the baby, and Mrs. Windeyer made up
her mind to get the little girl for her own.
She had wished for a daughter when Rich-
ard came, and now she saw an opportunity,
she wrote to her Aunt Matilda at Bristol to
come to her, and to try and persuade Ed-
ward’s wife to let her bring the baby with
her for Richard’s sake, knowing how Mar-
garet had loved him, and how self-sacrific-
ing she had been for others, she flattered
herself this would induce the mother to let
the child come to her. Miss Gordon wrent
to Easton and urged Margaret to give the
baby to Mrs. Windeyer, but the little
mother stoutly refused—“Not if I had to
beg my bread from door to door would I
part with my baby.” She made no com-
plaint, indulged in no recriminations, but
Miss Gordon knew by her manner that
her entreaties were vain. Miss Gordon
was annoyed when meeting Mrs.
Morley to find her an old schoolmate,
whom she had lost sight of for many
years, and many pleasing reminiscences
were recalled and the day was spent agree-
ably after all.
	When Annt Matilda arrived at Merton,
Richard was sinking rapidly, but as soon
as she found an opportunity she told her
niece the result of her visit to Margaret,
and added, “Your son’s wife comes of a
fine old Bristol family—her grandmother
was at boarding school with me; one of
the most charming girls, and married a
most brilliant officer; a widow now, with,
a moderate income, and as grand as a duch-
ess in appearance.”
	“But the child, Aunt Matilda! You see
Richard is dying, and I shall be left child-
less.”
	It was hard for Miss Gordon to see her
grief—she loved her niece; but she must
speak plainly now. “You will never have
that child, Nellie, unless the mother should
die. It is selfish to ask. She is alone; her
husband gone, perhaps never to return—
the sea is treacherous; and you have wealth,
position, and a husband to be proud of,
while she is almost alone in the world and
worships the little daughter.”
	It was a trying moment for Aunt Matil-

