[Column 2]
beer were opened for the men, and bottles
of good wine sent to the women folks.
	The women were not fond of the young
mistress, and they were free to talk of her
to one another, she was not their sort.
“Young Maister should have wed one of
the girls from hereabouts,” said Mrs. Hil-
lier to her neighbor, Janet Cousins (after
her first visit to see the baby) “and not gone
off to Bristol for a stuck up young woman;
I doubt me she’ll put fine notions into the
lad’s head when he grows up; he’ll not be
fit to take Maister’s place if he takes after
his mother, who’d listen to the likes o’ her,
I wonder?”
	“Now don’t be prophesyin’ evil of the
lad, he’s to be christened soon,” said Mrs.
Cousins, “and Lizzie tells me the boy’s robe
is two yards and a half long, of the finest
cambric muslin, and the lace is old Vene-
tian, and his head is so thick covered with
golden curls that Mrs. Windeyer told the
nurse he need’nt wear caps, (though they’re
all the finest lace) but Nurse Goodman
wouldn’t hear to it, and our Lizzie says as
how Mrs. Windeyer made herself sick a
cryin’ and frettin’ about the caps.”
	Lizzie was Mrs. Cousins’ daughter and a
sort of lady’s maid to Mrs. Windeyer, and
she never tired of repeating to her mother
what her young mistress said and did, and
Janet, as her mother was always called,
told everything to Mrs. Hillier (with whom
she never agreed about anything, how-
ever) for she had a kind heart and Mrs.
Hillier was envious that the young squire
had not taken to her daughter Fanny, to
whom he paid “great attentions,” as she
repeated over and over again till the whole
village gossiped about it, and Fanny was
so upset she declared “that she went off to
her uncle’s in Derby to be out of hearing,
and so’s nobody should see she was cut up
about the marriage.” The truth was she
went away until the gossip should die out,
for she was a sensible young woman, and
young Windeyer had given her to under-
stand what he had meant by “his atten-
tions” Mrs. Hillier had-talked of so much.
	“Well-a-day, whoever heard the like!”
said Mrs. Cousins to Lizzie, as the girl re-
peated to her mother the scene at the
Squire’s the night before the christening,
on her first visit home afterwards. “Little
you tho’t sittin’ there in the church so
solemn-like, what a fuss our. Mistress had
been making with the young Master the
night before, Nurse Goodman told the
whole thing to me. She wouldn’t think of
he’s even having his father’s name, as if
William wasn’t a grand name, when kings
have borne it, as Master told her, and his
father too before him; but no, she wouldn’t
hear of it, he must be called for his grand-
father, the Admiral, and she had her way
but I do think it is a mighty pretty name,
Edward; and Nurse said too as how the
Squire wanted Fanny Hillier to be the
child’s godmother, and the Mistress flew in-
to a passion directly and she said, “Yes,
I’ve heard of your attentions to that young
woman, and a nice scandal it would cause
if she were to be godmother; no, indeed,
I’ve sent for Aunt Matilda, and she’ll be
here presently; and sure enough, Nurse
said, just then the door bell rang, and be-
fore Mrs. Windeyer had quieted down,
Miss Gordon (Aunt Matilda as she called
her) had her wraps off and was; in the
room, and such a flurry as there was; but
the Squire was as sober as a judge, and
never a word did he say, so she had it all

