[Column 1]
room in the house to impress him with the
greatness of your ancestry, and then he
has possibly inherited a taste for that sort of
life; however, I’ll write to Prof. Hadley to-
morrow to hurry him off to Oxford, and
he’ll have something else to do than dream
by the seashore, his companions will cure
him of idle day dreams.”
	“I’m sure, William, you blame me for all
the boys faults. I can’t help my descent
from naval ancestry. It’s a great pity you
hadn’t married the Hillier girl, she is no
doubt keeping herself single for your sake,
it isn’t enough to have won your affection
but she’s tried to win my boy from me to
my sorrow,” said Mrs. Windeyer between
her sobs.
	“This is too serious an accusation to be
passed over silently,” replied the husband,
“never mention Fanny Hillier’s name to
me again, I positively forbid it,” and the
irate husband walked out of the house
without so much as good morning, the first
time since his marriage. His love for Mrs.
Windeyer amounted to devotion that had
never changed through all the misunder-
standings and unpleasant scenes. It was
true he had admired Fanny as a sort of
village sweetheart; but after he met Miss
Ellen Fairfax, he knew that the sentiment
he had cherished for Fanny was not the
love of a lifetime; he had often felt sorry
that Fanny did not marry, but he did not-
know, (as men seldom ever do) that she
could never marry any other man; such is
woman’s constancy when her heart is once
given to her true mate, even though that
love be given unsought. Fanny had never
breathed her secret, it could only be
guessed by the magician’s art, which un-
locks love’s secret cabinet, and whispers
softly to the winds at night-time when only
the birds are listening.
	Mrs. Windeyer fretted the live-long day.
She loved her husband, notwithstanding
her temper, and regretted that they had
parted in anger; but she was proudly am-
bitious for her son, she wanted him to be-
come a man of brilliant attainments, high
in the world’s favor. She cared little for
the affection of the people among whom
she lived, she seldom mingled with them
and though at intervals she gave them out-
door parties, she rarely appeared upon the
scene herself. Her husband felt this very
keenly, for he loved the village people, he
knew they were his true and loyal friends,
seeking his interest, while he in return
looked to the public welfare in which all
had common cause.
	Gradually the lives of the husband and
wife grew apart; there was no serious quar-
rel, she was unbearably sarcastic, and he
took her sharp sayings in dumb silence, his
love had received a fatal wonnd.
	Finally a heavier blow fell upon the
household than even the division of hus-
band and wife, for that might have been
bridged over. Just when the Squire was
planning what change might take place
when Edward came home at vacation, a
letter from the Professor came, bringing the
sad news that his son had dlsappeared; he
wrote “He has taken nothing with him.
we have had every one of his old haunts
starched, but no trace of him can be found,
we are ourselves deeply afflicted for he has
greatly endeared himself to us, and was
most respectful and affectionate, but though
we mourn, our hearts are much more deep-
ly grieved for yourself and his poor mother.”
	The clerk in the office looked up as he

