[Column 2]
heavenly messengers, assurance of these
angelic attendants.
	Sister Taylor’s life had been so closely
guarded always by her devoted husband,
that one cannot think she could be left to
herself. Their home life has been as nearly
perfect as possible, and this must be a great
consolation to those who miss her presence
in the home circle. Life was very sweet
to her, except because of her ill-health.
But dwell upon it as we may in all its
phases, we cannot do aught but seek to
reconcile ourselves to the inevitable.
	It is for those who loved and admired her
noble character, her wisdom, her patience,
her great fortitude, to endeavor to follow
her footsteps and fill up their days in use-
fulness, as she has striven to do. She pos-
sessed and cultivated all the characteristics
that make for excellence in womanhood;
whatever she did was well done, no matter
how distasteful the task might be. Her
integrity to the Gospel was unquestioned,
and her fidelity to every principle was prov-
en b yond all doubt. She had been “tried
as by fire,” and her spirit did not quail—
she never faltered.
	She has gone, and we know and realize
all is for the best, yet we shall miss her
greatly, and especially will those who de-
pended upon her advice and counsel in the
organization of which she was the central
figure and light, encircling them all in the
arms of her great love, and giving to each
one her portion in due season. But they
must learn to stand without her to lean
upon—the love will remain, though they
cannot see her nor hear her voice; yet the
remembrance of the intimate association
will be as a sweet fragrance shed on their
onward pathway while life lasts. They can
never forget what she has been to them.
	Sister Taylor was born of goodly parents,
of the old Puritan stock, though her birth-
place was in Middlefield, Ostego county,
New York, September 12th, 1830. She
was educated for a teacher, graduating from
a ladies seminary, and taught school
for several years at Haverstraw, on the
banks of the Hudson; while there engaged
in teaching she became acquainted with
George H. Taylor, who resided in that lo-
cality, and it was there also she heard the
Gospel and accepted its teachings, and was
baptized a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and very soon
after married to Brother George H. Taylor,
August 31, 1855. The marriage ceremony
was performed by Apostle John Taylor, who
was at that time presiding in New York.
	Brother and Sister Taylor came to Utah
in 1859, and have resided here ever since.
Brother Taylor has been Bishop of the
Fourteenth ward in this city many years.
	Sister Taylor was the mother of seven
children, all of them born here; three sons
and one daughter with several grandchild-
ren remain to mourn the loss of a wise,
tender and loving mother; but she has
gone to join those three little ones who pre-
ceded her to the spirit world, and over
whom she will rejoice with joy surpassing
all earthly happiness; and there are many 
to welcome her to the mansions of glory
and rest—her father and mother and rela-
tives, and many dear friends.
	Among her associates who will rejoice at
her coming and with whom she will meet
and bear tidings will be Sister Eliza R.
Snow, Aunt Zina Young, and Sisters Hey-
wood, Howard, Richardson, Helen Whitney, 
Sarah M. Kimball, and many more.


Sister E. S. Taylor's death occurred
about 11 a.m. Tuesday, December 6, 1904,
at her well-known residence in this city.
One less at home!
The charmed circle broken—a dear face
Missed, day by day from its accustomed place,
But purified and perfected by grace,
One more in heaven!
	The funeral services of Sister Taylor
were held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
on Sunday, December 11, under the aus-
pices of the General Board of the Y. L. M.
I. A. assisted by the Y. M. M. I. A. The
hall was artistically draped in white, giv-
ing an effect of the utmost purity in design,
the flowers were delicate in color and beau-
tiful in variety, and the entire appearance
of the building denoted perfection in all
its details. The office[-]s and General Board
were seated on the stands, the upper stand
only being occupied by the First Presidency
of the Church and some of the speakers.
President Joseph F. Smith presided, and
also made the principal address in honor of
the deceased. Everything was of the high-
est order of merit and excellence, as well as
beauty in every particular. The whole effect
was of purity and sublimity in keeping with
the life and character of their departed presi-
dent and leader.
	At another time we hope to make a more
extended notice of the funeral.


