[Column 1]
MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
CHRISTMAS IN AN ENGLISH VILLAGE.
	It was Christmas eve in a small manu-
facturing villiage in England, early in the
nineteenth century, and preparations for
the usual gay festivities were going forward;
young men and women were arranging the
mistletoe and holly in the prosperous homes
of the working people; and in many of the
cottages beer had been brewed by the prud-
ent house-wives who took care “the mas-
ter” should drink his good ale at home in-
stead of joining in a carouse at the village
inn. Everywhere it was plain to be seen
that the yearly Christmas festival was
drawing nigh. The one little church, ivy-
covered outside, was profusely decorated
within, and the choristers, dressed for the
occasion, were wending their way to begin
the sublime choruses.
	Not far from the church, in the most
pretentious house the village could boast,
there was great anxiety, bustle and confu-
sion. The doctor’s gig stood by the gate-
way, and the cottagers looked anxiously
about and around, and inquired of each
other whether there was any word from
Mrs. Windeyer, for the village folks were
all “agate” to hear the news, and each
one wanted to be first to tell “the glad tid-
ings,” if such it should be. “The master,”
as he was called by them all, was a prime
favorite, he had been born among them, as
they often said to each other,and there were
no doubts in their minds as to the doctor’s
prolonged stay at the “Squire’s house.”
	The evening grew late, and still no word
came. Indeed there seemed almost a
hush to brood over the homes of the neigh-
borhood; and the women, especially the
mothers, waited in almost breathless sil-
ence for the wheels of the doctor’s gig.
The doors were shut, for it was bitter cold,
and there was keen, sharp frost in the air;
music from the church rang out on the still
night, clear and full of tender pathos; and
the children, heeding not the cold, could be
seen in groups going up and down, here
and there singing snatches of Christmas
melodies as they threw from door to door
sprays of holly, calling out, “Christmas
box.” Finally all hilarity had ceased, and
quiet was settling down, then the Christ-
mas bells began ringing joyfully, and just
then Nurse Goodman came down the oaken
staircase in her soft slippers, beaming with
pride, though tears were on her cheeks, and
opening the door, of the great dining room
where “the master” sat by the open fire
uneasy and restless, announced ere enter-
ing, “Ye may’n come up now, Maister
Windeyer, as quick as ye like, ye’ve a fine
son born to the tune o’ the Xmas bells,
and he’l be mighty lucky, I’m sure, for he
roared as we could na hear the bells ring.”
	Many a good woman peeped out inquir-
ingly from behind her bedroom curtains as
the doctor’s gig rattled over the frozen
ground on his homeward way long after mid--
night; but the first gray dawn of morning
found the village very wide awake, and
the news that an heir was born to “Maister
Windeyer” on Christmas eve, just as the
bells’ were ringing, flew from house to
house like wildfire; and such a Christmas
they all declared there had never been since
the old “Maister Windeyer’s time.” Christ-
mas baskets laden with good things, were
distributed through the entire village, and
there was feasting and rejoicing and merry-
making the week through, great flagons of

