RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	The Relief Society of the Leipzig branch,
Germany, on Monday gave a coffee (barley)
social in the L. D S. hall. Tables placed
around the room looked so dainty, with
their cream cloths, where the kuchen
(cakes) were heaped later on.
	This society was organized about three
months ago, and this the first event of a
social nature, was given on Reformation
Day, October 31st, which is a general holi-
day in Germany, commemorating the day
on which Martin Luther preferred his nine-
ty-five charges against the Catholic church
in 1517.
	It also partook of the nature of a fare-
well to President Charles J. Thomas, un-
der whom they were organized, and who
has been called to preside over the work in
another part of the vineyard.
	An interesting program was carried out
of speeches, recitations and songs.
	One sister composed a song of thankful-
ness for the organization of the society. A
brother set it to music and two sisters sang
it.
	Brother Kritchmar, in the name of all


present, expressed gratitude to President
Thomas and the writer for the organization
of the Society. While coffee and kuchen 
were being served, Herr Bertram, a pro-
fessional on the piano, sang some of his
own fine compositions. A trio was rendered
by three young sisters, and Sister May C.
Alder sang sweetly a couple of German
songs. Besides this two brothers and sis-
ters recited.
	The writer was asked to speak. Presi-
dent G. Alfred Alder interpreted to the 
Saints. Elder Thomas interpreted the 
Saints remarks to her.
	After the tables were cleared away some
games were indulged in, much to the enjoy- 
ment of young and old. A few dances
closed the festivities, and by 9 o’clock all
were happily wending their way home-
ward.
	The Society is doing well and enjoy their
labors. A few sick Saints claim their at-
tention and care. They are in a sound
financial condition, and are great workers.
President Gumtier was ably assisted by her
Counselors, Sisters Kretchmar, Loefler and
Lydia D. Alder.			L. D. A.


