[Column 2]
heard the sobs of this great strong man,
“his master,” when he read the letter; but
the Squire took no notice, though as he
arose to go he turned and said to the clerk,
“Shut the office at the usual hour, say I
have gone home if any one calls, I shall
not come back today,” and he passed out,
the open letter in his hand.
	“You have had bad news, sir, I am sor-
ry, can I do anything for you? Can I help
you? Shall I call a cab? You look so
broken up,” said the kind-hearted clerk.
	“No, thank you, I will walk, the fresh
air will do me good, besides I can think
better.”
	Yes, he had need to think over the situ-
ation. How could he tell the lad’s mother?
She would swoon, perhaps, he could not
bear to go home, not yet awhile. He
walked away into the fields, he recalled the
sayings of his son’s boyhood, when he would
climb upon his knee; things long forgotten
came back to him, “Papa, I shall go to sea
and be a great captain and have ships of
my own, and build pretty cottages for the
sailors,” and he would sing of the ocean,
the great bounding, tossing, foaming ocean.
Twilight came on while he strolled about
the fields, and when he turned homeward,
the lights were streaming from the cottage
windows. “I must go and tell Nellie our
boy has run away,” he said to himself, as
he hurried on, as one does when bent on a
hateful errand, lest he should not have the
courage if he lingered. Supper was ready
and Nellie and little Richard were waiting
his coming. He knew he could not eat,
but Mrs. Windeyer must have her tea, so
he took a cup, but his hand shook and his
wife noticing his nervous manner asked,
“Are you ill, William?”
	“No, only upset, I. shall be better soon.”
	“Has there been a disturbance at the
mills? The men grow restless towards pay
day, I’ve noticed.”
	“Nothing has gone wrong at the mills,
I’ve had a letter from Bristol about Ed-
ward.”
	“Has he gone away? Tell me the worst,”
said Mrs. Windeyer excitedly.
	“I can’t tell you, I don’t know myself,”
and he handed the letter to his wife.
	But she did not faint, or even weep as
she read on, “This is the old story over
again; he’s gone to sea, undoubtedly, he
knew we would not give our consent, and
so he’s gone without asking. We shall
hear from him soon, when he is far away,
so we cannot bring him back, he will take
no harm, he was born to the music of the
Xmas bells, rather a sea captain than the
owner and overseer of these humdrum-
mills.”
	Mr. Windeyer took Richard in his arms,
for comfort, such a frail child, and he said
“We’ll go upstairs. I must answer this
letter tonight, he must be found.”
	Accordingly the father wrote to the ship-
ping merchants at Bristol for particulars of
the ship’s crew on board the vessels that
had sailed about that time, and also to the
Professor to spare no means to ascertain
whither the boy had gone. Hearing nothing
satisfactory in reply, he set out himself for
Bristol and made diligent search, but all in
vain, no tidings could be obtained.
	Christmas came, but out of respect to the
Squire, the villagers refrained from making
any public demonstration. Never had there
been such a quiet Christmas, so the women
said, and indeed the young man’s fate was
truly lamented, and many a tear fell when

