[Column 1]
vessel and turned dizzy when he tried to
rise.
	“What I endured for the first few days
on board that vessel,” he said, “can never 
be told, the remorse of conscience, the 
mortification, the despair; many times I 
prayed to die, I felt I could never meet my
father or mother or any of my former
friends again. We had a fine captain, he
blamed the young man, Tom Wetherell, for
bringing me on board, until I was so sorry
for Tom that I began to be reconciled to
my fate. He mourned for me, too, poor
fellow, and he tried to make up for it in
every way possible. He taught me how to
do my work, and I had the tact and skill
necessary to get on. We were always good
friends, and no matter where we put ashore,
he would entertain me in true hospitable
sailor style. Sailors have good hearts,
though their manners are rough and un-
couth, and their use of the King’s English
is beyond description. There were many
unpleasant experiences for a fellow brought
up tenderly as I had been, but the Captain
noticed this and gave me the easiest places,
and I improved so rapidly, and displayed
such uncommon courage and such an ad-
venturous spirit at times, that he promoted
me when our mate who was not over
strong at the beginning of the voyage was
quite unable to keep on duty, and I can-
not say but my great grandfather, the Ad-
miral, having been in His Majesty’s ser-
vice, had something to do with it.”
	The festivities on the day following
Ned’s return were on the most magnificent
scale ever known in Merton, and the whole
village was in a state of joyful excitement.
The very garb he wore was a great attrac-
tion to the young people. We who live in
this day and in an inland country know
comparatively little of how the sailor cos-
tume fascinates people, especially the young
generation. Scores of girls fell in love with
Edward Windeyer, and he was jovial and
courteous with all; but there were those of
them who were so much enamored of hm
that they watched with envy the attentions
he bestowed on others, and especially on
one, who as they said, “couldn’t compare
with the girls in his own vicinity.” She
was neither beautiful, nor yet attractive to
her own sex (who were for the most part
jealous of her) notwithstanding her plain
appearance, and her poverty yet the young
man admired her, she could converse well,
and her voice was singularly pathetic and
musical; she was graceful in manner and
danced beautifully.
	“Think of Edward Windeyer being en-
gaged to Miss Morley, and he has only met
her three or four times,” said spiteful Hettie
Willis to her two friends, Olive Somers and
Anna Dalley, the trio they were called, all
well to do, of good families, girls of style,
the tip top of society in Merton, in fact they
boasted on occasions that their fathers were
not in Squire Windeyer’s employ, but in
business of their own, and their mothers
had never worked for a living, not even as
governesses; indeed, they were well-con-
nected as the world goes.
	But even so, Edward fell in love at first
sight with Miss Morley. His mother fretted
and fumed, but all to no purpose his fath-
er said nothing, but allowed him to do as
he pleased. Finally when it became ap-
parent that the matter was serious and he
was determined to marry Miss Morley, if
he could persuade her to accept him, (which
was not an easy matter), his mother en-

