[Column 3]
ever his name was spoken. Even his
mother began to despond as time wore on,
and no news came of her darling boy. She
had been hopeful at first, but as day after
day she watched and waited, she grew pale
and sleepless, and finally so melancholy
that old Dr. Gray advised the seashore,
and her husband consented. “I shall be
nearer if my boy comes back, and more-
likely to hear news of him, and you shall
know immediately, William,” she said to
her husband the morning of her departure.
Aunt Matilda had come to travel with her
as the Squire could not leave his business
just then.
	“I knew how ’twould be,” old Mrs.
Hillier said, “I always said her pride would
have a fall; he’ll never come back, he’s
most likely dead, and that boy Richard
will never live to be a man. She’s punish-
ed hard enough for looking down on them
as made their money for em.”
	“Now, Sarah, that’s very wrong,” said
her husband, “she’s not punished for that,
better folks nor her are chastened. What
does the Bible say, Sarah? Read about Job,
how he was afflicted. Mind don’t go agin
scripture, there’s not a better man livin’
than Willie Windeyer, I’ve known him
since he were a wee lad, and as for Edward,
you can’t say there were any evil in him."
	“No, dad, I don’t say anything agin
Edward, but its the stuck-up Bristol wo-
man, but she’ll suffer for’t, pride must have
a fall, that’s scriptur, ain’t it dad?”
	“Not exactly, Sarah, but don’t rejoice in
anybody’s trouble, its wrong, its cruel, be-
sides you know how Fanny has always
felt about Edward, she’s sure he’ll come
back some day.” 
	“Well, yes, may be, and Carrie will be
married and gone, and she set such store by
him. I don’t see why I should be sorry for
’em, they’ve brung me no end o’ trouble,
what with Fanny bein’ in love with Will as
she’ll never get over it, and Carrie with Ed-
ward, I’m the one as is to be pitied.”
	“Carrie’s love wasn’t very deep I should
think, she’s sweet now on Jim Farley
a’ready, and you talkin’ of her marryin’
soon yourself.”
	“I’m glad if she do marry him and be
done with’t. I don’t want another old
maid in the family, a pinin’ for something
she’ll never git.”
	“Better have old maids than bad hus-
bands for our girls, but I’ve no objection to
Jim Farley, he’s a fine lad and a goodish
family, and we know em for what they are,
they’ll have my consent when they’re
ready.”
	It was hard for Mrs. Hillier to forgive,
she was an honest, upright woman, but
she wasn’t fond of “bettermost people” un
less they were very amiable. As for Ed-
ward, he had never thought of loving
Carrie, she was ten years older; but he
adored her sister Fanny, who was old
enough to be his mother, though of marri-
age the boy had never yet dreamed. 
	Three long years had gone by, and no
news of Edward Windeyer. Of all the
ships that had sailed out of Bristol, most of
them had come back heavy laden and gone
out again, but still his mother hoped on.
She had grown stronger and returned to
Merton, and though a sort of gloom per-
vaded the place at holiday times, yet usually
cheerfulness prevailed, and the Windeyers
were seldom without visitors from Bristol.
		Continued on page 46.


