[Column 3]
her own way, and Master has scarcely
spoken a syllable in the house since.”
	“And to think how fine and pleased we
all were, and wishing them joy like that,”
said Mrs. Hillier, when Janet repeated this
conversation to her, “she to think my Fan-
ny not good enough to be the child’s god-
mother (he’s a regular beauty, they all say)
and I doubt me he’l be as proud as a pea-
cock and Lord it over the workmen when
he steps in his father’s shoes, if he ever
should have that honor,”
	And half the village knew the story be-
fore it was a week old.
	Time went on and the village prospered,
and Mr. Windeyer grew rich with one in-
vention and another at the mills; but his
wife was as haughty as he was amiable,
and quite as much disliked as he as be-
loved. One more son had been born to
them, nine years after the first; but he was
a delicate boy, while Edward was strong
and manly, and a greater favorite than even
his father had been. Fanny Hillier re-
mained single and was Edward’s first teach-
er; and strangely enough, as he grew up, he
clung to her as his ideal, which vexed his
mother greatly, and she contrived by all
means in her power to keep her son away,
which only made matters worse. Fanny
had a younger sister, Caroline, who was a
sort of musical genius, a singer who played
the violin; and Edward would steal away
and spend his evenings there, singing and
playing on the flute to Carrie’s violin, while
the stately Fannie accompanied them on
the spinet.
	“He is only a boy, and will outgrow this 
childish love for girls so much older than
himself,” his father replied when appealed
to. “I have no fears, besides he must be
sent to college, we can well afford it; let
him go away from home, it is high time.”
Mrs. Windeyer had been urging him to
take some positive measures to break off
the intimacy with the people she considered
so far beneath her as the Hilliers.
	Mrs. Windeyer made up her mind Ed-
ward should go at once and set about the
preparations. His father was quite willing
he knew the boy was well advanced in his
studies, a fine scholar, all his teachers said,
but the parents realized he needed some
training and discipline beforehand, and fin.
ally decided he should go to Bristol, his
mother’s native city, and remain there a
year under the tutelage of a learned profes-
sor whom his mother had previously known.
	The boy went away willingly at last,
though he had protested against it and
made more ado about leaving Fanny Hil-
fier than his own father and mother, (of
which fact his mother was in blissful ig-
norance) though his father guessed it from
hints dropped by the elder Hillier, who was
one of the Squire’s trusted overseers at the
mills.
	The first few weeks Edward studied dili-
gently, and Professor Hadley wrote glow-
ing accounts of his young student to the
parents at Merton, but later on he in-
formed them that their boy was passion-
ately fond of the sea, though his lessons
were perfectly learned, he had such a won-
derful memory; but his thoughts seemed
far away, he was absent-minded and wheth-
er waking or dreaming, it was always the
sea, “It is born in the boy, and he can’t
help it,” said his father. “Undoubtedly
you’ve filled his head with nursery tales of
your grandfather, the old Admiral, and
you’ve hung those marine views in every


