[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	If one could give to all the needy and
unfortunate at Christmas time, how happy
one might be, but the world’s needs are
many and there is so little one can do to
make things better, or to help just the few
of one’s own acquaintances, and even then
the knowledge that there are great needs,
and much suffering that cannot be reached
and perhaps for which no remedy has yet
been found, leaves one despondent over the
world’s betterment. Still most people do
try at Christmas to give some sort of up-
lift to the day, and one’s neighbors and
friends, particularly the children, and as it
seems children’s day more than any other
day in the whole year, one ought to do all
that is possible to teach them what Christ-
mas means, and how it should be kept.
	The narration of the birth of the Christ-
child is far more fascinating than any
Santa Claus story, if told in its simplicity,
with vivid word pictures. The children
always want to hear about babies, and this
story of Jesus in the manger never grows
old; the shepherds tending their flocks at
night, the glory that shone round about
them, the wise men bringing precious gifts,
walking with staffs in their hands and
wearing long flowing robes; and Mary the
sweet mother with the beautiful child in
her arms, these truths unfolded in the
simple language children can comprehend,
will make lasting impressions on the little
one’s mind. The golden rule applied “To
do to others as ye would they should do to
you” is the lesson to be given early to the
children in season and out of season.
	This year has been a bountiful one in all
respects and the people have special reason
for ministering to those who are les favor-
ed, and in this city appearances would indi-
cate there were no hungry one’s at Christ-
mas time even among the poor. The Sal-
vation Army people gather of all kinds and
open their arms and their hearts to the
poorest of the poor. Miss Eva Booth com-
mander of the Salvation Army in the
United States says, “Give us the children
and we will save the world.” Shall we
who profess so much let any little waif go
without either temporal or spiritual salva-
tion.
	Assurdly not! We have our Primary
Associations for the little folks and a grave
responsibility rests upon those in charge.
True mothers love all children, not only
their own, but the children of the great
world outside iheir own four walls, and can

