[Column 3]
though the young couple came home with
the father as soon as the wedding celebra-
tion was over.
	One year of “love’s sweet young dream”
and of intense sorrow for the bride, and
Margaret fled from the home that was un-
bearable to her sensitive nature—fled to
Fanny Hillier for protection and sympathy.
She would not go to her grandma (who had
reared her), to burden her with sorrow
father and mother were both dead, and she
had no brother or sister. Mrs. Windeyer
had made her life unendurable—she had
professed everything and fulfilled nothing.
“Such a child, she can never really be a
wife or a mother,” she had said to Ned
once or twice in the wife’s presence.
	“Let her be,” Mrs. Windeyer said to Ed-
ward; “she’ll come back of her own ac-
cord but if you go after her to coax her,
she’ll be trying the same thing again.”
	Richard pined for her almost as much as
Ned himself, but he was positively forbid-
den to go to see her.
	Squire Windeyer advised Edward to take
a house and make a home of his own near
them, for he was fondly attached to Marga-
ret, and he knew it would be impossible for
him to visit her at the Hillier cottage. The
kind-hearted man said to his son, “Marga-
ret needs sympathy now, and Fanny is
overflowing with tenderness and love for
all humanity; she is the very person to
whom one can go in trouble the only one,
my boy, who never lost faith in you—nev-
er gave you up when you were so long
away from home. She believed in your
fidelity and was sure you would come back
someday.”
	Evidently Mrs. Hillier did not respond to
the generous impulses of her daughter, and
she took occasion to speak her mind rather
freely to Fanny one day soon after young
Mrs. Windeyer had taken refuge at their
home.
	“A pretty scandal this will make, tak-
ing in Edward’s wife. I have no patience
with such nonsense. If she can’t live with
his mother, let her go back to her own.
You’ll be talked about finely for mixing up
in this affair. Mrs. Windeyer will not
spare you, you know that well enough.”
	“Hush, mother, for pity’s sake she will
hear you her ears are so quick to catch the
least sound.”
	It was already too late. Margaret had
heard all, and felt the sting. She knew it
was true that Mrs. Windeyer would not
spare Fanny in the least, though in her
trouble she had not thought of it; but now
she would go before anyone could hinder
her—whither she knew not. Putting on
her hat and cloak, she disguised herself as
much as possible, and though trembling in
every limb and weak from excessive grief,
she ran down the garden walk and was out
upon the high road before anyone knew she
had left the house.
	Fanny went in with a dainty lunch to
tempt her appetite, and found the room
deserted, her wraps gone, then she knew
Margaret must have overheard her mother
and putting on her own things she started
to follow and bring her back if possible.
The search was vain, and she sent a mes-
sage to Edward, but his mother intercepted
it, and night coming on, Fanny, restless with
anxiety, waited, not knowing what to do.
Morning brought no news, and Fanny be-
gan inquiring on her own account. Mr.
Windeyer, however, heard it at the mills,
and severely reprimanded his son for the


