church, and third to the whole world. A regulated and systematic method of giving is of great importance, both to the individual and to the church. Society GUIDE LESSONS 545 is made up of individuals and what benefits one is a blessing to all. When the indivdual knows exactly what he has to pay he may calculate his income. Equally valuable is this regular system to the church itself. In regard to its beneficial needs, the law of tithing as given in Section 119 of the Book of Doc- ° trine and Covenans is simple, beautiful and complete. When it is paid, the individual and the church will prosper. (See Amos 4:4; Mal. 3:8-10; Hebrew 7:5, 6, 8, 9.) Those who do not observe this law usually get into debt and stay in debt and lack that good spirit that comes through a generous attitude towards life. The results to the Latter-day Sains of disobedience to this law are very noticeable. Those who cease to pay tithing usually find fault with the manner and use of tithes. They are lax in other duties; they are indifferent to church interests, and they may be heard speaking against the word of the Lord, and they do not see or understand the fundamental purposes of the Church as do those who obey this law. Tithing properly observed will broaden the mind, enlarge the soul, make us more considerate and humble. It affects the rich and poor alike. It is an aid to proper and intelligent giving: it is a debt we owe to God: it must be put into actual practice to receive its benefits: it creates Satisfaction with the gospel, develops faith in God and his great work, and devotion to his service, and will prepare us for the United Order. Tithing should be paid as one receives his income or allowance—by the wage earner when he receives his salary; by the rich man when he receives his income from investments; by the farmer when he harvests his crops. The time to pay is when the means comes into our possession. Every tithepayer and every person who should pay tithing should also attend the annual tithing settlement in the ward. The following are part of the written instructions of the Presiding Bishopric concerning tithing: The proper time to pay tithes is when one's income is received, Farm products should be paid in the season in which they are gathered, Wage-earners should pay their tithes weekly, monthly or at such other times as they receive their salaries. The practice of delaying the payment of tithing until the end of the year is largely responsible for the failure of many people to fully observe the law of tithing; and thus they forfeit the blessing predicated upon obedience to this law. The Bishop should encourage the monthly payment of tithes even among those who follow farming and similar occupations. Every stake and ward officer should observe the monthly payment of tithes. Farm products and the fruits of one's labors, or investments, should be tithed. Cash is always acceptable, because it can be handled witheut loss; but tithes "in kind" should be accepted when offered, When one is away from the ward in which he belongs, and it is not convenient to pay tithing to his Bishop or at the Presiding Bishop's Office, he may 546. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pay his tithes to the Bishop who can be most conveniently reached. At the close of the year he should send such receipts to his own Bishop, who will enter the amount on the tithing record in red ink, thus indicating that it was not received by him. The accounting for such tithes will be made by the Bishop to whom it was paid, The Bishopric should make a special effort to encourage the attendance of the younger members of the ward at the tithing settlement, especially those who have started to work, even though their earnings are small. The members of the Aaronic Priesthood should have the personal attention of the Bishopric, and they should be encouraged to observe the law of tithing. Members of the Church who are wage-earners or who have incomes and have not paid tithing are classed as non-tithepayers. Aged persons without incomes, women whose husbands are not members of the Church, women who have no income separate from that of their husbands, and missionaries should not be listed as non-tithepayers. The Lord has apointed the First Presidency, the Presiding Bishopric and the Council of the Twelve, and by the voice of revelation he has called them as duly authorized bodies to disburse the tithing. The following are some of the purposes for which tithing is applied: For the maintenance of missions; the building of mission houses, chapels, and the preaching of the gospel in the nations of the earth; for the erection of a temple at Cardston and the temples as they may be erected, and for the operating of the St. George, Logan, Manti, Salt Lake and Hawaiian temples; for the construction and maintenance of schools; the salaries of teachers, and the construction and maintenance of seminaries, for the care of the poor through the bishops of the Church; for hospital treatment and for the erection and maintenance of the L. D. S., Dee Memorial and Idaho Falls Hospitals; and others as they may be built; for the maintenance of the offices of the First Presidency and other leading departments of the Church; for the erection and maintenance of stake tabernacles and offices; for the operating expenses of the stakes; for assisting in the maintenance of wards, including ward buildings, and appropriations of the Trustee-in-Trust toward the erection of meetinghouses; for the expense incurred in receiving, handling, disbursing and accounting for the tithes, and many other similar proper and legitimate expenditures. QUESTIONS 1. Can you tell anything about the observance of tithing by the ancient peoples of the world? 2. To whom did Abraham pay tithing, and' what did he tithe? GUIDE Less ONS 347 3. Can you quote the covenant that Jacob made With the Lord? +. What did the Prophet Malachi teach concerning tithes and of erings. (See Mal. } 5. What benefit does the individual get from the payment of tithing? The payment of tith- 7. What is the usual attitude of the n at are the blessings that come to the ti d 13. Can You explain Section 119 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants? 14. What is the United Order? 13. How will tithepaying Prepare us to enter into that order? 16. Write to the Presiding Bishop's Office for Tithing Pamphlets, LESSON IT Work and Business (Second Week in November) LESSON ITT Literature (Third Week in November) HYMNS py ELIZA R, SNOW » Selected A casual glance at her authorshj she is unusually versatile. She is not only the author of one of € dest doctrinal] hymns in "Mormon" literature, "O my Father," ich is in all Probability the MOst popular of Latter-day Saints 548 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hymns, but she has written one of the best sacramental hymns, one of the best missionary hymns, one of the best hymns for converts, as also that well beloved hymn, "I'll serve the Lord _ while I am young," sung by the children and youth of Zion wherever the young people of the Church gather together. Turning to the best of her sacrament hymns, we quote the first stanza: "How great the wisdom and the love, That filled the courts on high, And sent the Savior from above To suffer, bleed and die." These lines are repeated by an army of Sunday School children, Sabbath after Sabbath, wherever the organization of the Church has reached. It is justly popular emphasizing as it does the love of God rather than the gruesome details of the crucifixion as many sacrament hymns do. The second stanza brings out the fact that Jesus freely gave his sinless life, "A dying world to save." The third stanza dwells on the strict obedience of the Son to the will of the Father, "Thy will, O God, not mine be done Adorned his mortal life,' With marked aptness in the selection of words the fourth stanza tells us, that, "He [Christ] marked the path and lead the way, And every point defines To light and life and endless day, Where God's full presence shines." The fifth stanza is a summary of the entire plan, "Redemption's grand design," "Where justice, love and mercy meet In harmony divine." In the last stanza the author turns her attention to the meaning of the sacrament; in memory of this gift of love from the Father, bringing redemption to mankind,, "We eat the broken bread; And witness with the cup afresh Our faith in Christ our Head." The author thus emphasizes the symbolism of the sac- GUIDE LESSONS 549 rament, which differentiates the Protestant from the Catholic churches. Eliza R. Snow's hymns are 'usually marked by 'poetic flights; yet they are frequently didactic, embodying gems of thought, and of theological wisdom, heightened by the deep religious feeling of the author. Her style is marked by a certain felicity of expression, not easily attained, but generally characteristic of all that she writes. Her thoughts are choice and her diction is correspondingly choice. One of Eliza R. Snow's children's hymns which is deservedly popular, is, "I'll Serve the Lord while I am. Young." It is written in the first person, the author assuming that she is of the youth of Zion, who in the fulness of her soul praises God "for parentage and birth ones the most beloved of heaven that dwell upon the earth." In the second stanza the young supliant prays, "O, Lord, my parents here preserve, To teach me righteousness, That my young feet may never swerve From paths of holiness; And, like the faithful ones of old Who now behold thy face, May I be formed in virtue's mould To fill a holy place." This stanza needs no special explanation, the author's meaning is perfectly clear, the allusion to the "faithful ones of old" must of necessity stir the imagination. The figure of speech in the closing lines, "May I be formed t# virtue's mould To fill a holy place." is especially noteworthy. The third stanza reads: "While youth and beauty sweetly twine Their garlands round my head, T'll seek at wisdom's sacred shrine The gems that never fade. Long may I sing thy praises here Among thy Saints below, And in eternity appear With them in glory too." This is one of the most poetic stanzas to be found in Eliza R. Snow's hymns. The concrete particulars making up the stanza suggests a picture of rare beauty. It is difficult to suggest 
 a more attractive picture than that suggested by youth, beauty, and a garland of flowers. This hymn is the favorite hymn of President George H. Grimhall, a man who has devoted his life to the youth of Zion in God's service in the Church colleges, and on the Y. M. M. I. A. General Board. The Latter-day Saints have always elton that individual prayers should gush from the soul of the person who offers the prayer, to the Father in heaven. In. This hymn Eliza R. Snow has been successful in writing a song of praise which is also a group prayer. This hymn learned by thousands of children in the Primary association and in the Religion class has been and will continue to be held by them in reverence throughout their lives. We now turn to the authoy's great missionary hymn, "The time is far spent.' This hymn is as successful as a missionary hymn as, "How great the wisdom and the love" is successful as a sacrament hymn. No other missionary hymn is more popular than this well known one, from the pen of Eliza R. Snow. Misisonaries sing it in their gatherings, before they depart, on the street corners, in halls, in cities and hamlets all over the world as they seek out the honest in heart. "The time is far spent, There is little remaining To publish glad tidings by sea and by land," This first stanza is notable, calling attention to the fact that little time remains to carry the gospel message. We feel that it is impossible to sing it without an impulse being stirred to do this great work and that promptly. The third stanza is particularly effective in that it embodies the common experience of those who go out as heralds of God's word. The poet calls attention to the fact that in all probability the elders will "be called to endure the world's bitter hate." Nevertheless: "The angels are waiting to cfown them with blessing," Therefore: ''Go brethren, be faithful, the promise is sure." The companion hymn of "The time is far spent" is, "Think not when you gather to Zion." "Think not when you gather to Zion Your troubles and trials are through, That nothing but comfort and pleasure Are waiting in Zion for you." The strength of this hymn is precisely the strength of the missionary hymn, The author has embodied experiences com-