[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NartIons" DEATH OF JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL: Lowell's health has been impaired ever since his return to this country in 1855, after concluding his diplomatic service abroad. A year and a half ago his condition became serious and a fatal termination — was feared, but his health then had a chance of recovery.
About two weeks ago he became delirious, and up to Monday he recovered consciousness only at brief intervals, when he gave the members of his family signs of recognition. His death was extremely peaceful.
Although it was known he could not live much longer, his death was nevertheless rather unexpected. The transition from sleep to death was so easy that for a few moments nobody in the room observed that he had ceased to breathe. His eyes were closed and they never opened. He passed away with only a heavy sigh to indicate the separation of a great soul from a worn-out body. THE MAGIC OF MUSICAL ECHOES The tender chords of the heart may be stirr'd By a sweet strain of music soft, and low, Repeating the echoes that erst were heard From the depths of the years of long ago. A lingering sweetness of cherish'd hours, Sweeps through our lives as we journey along As delicate perfume from fragrant flowers, Or the melody of some long-lost song,
Which wakes in our soul where remembrance stays,
The joys which e'en time can never outlive
And in hours of pleasure, or darkest days
A nameless charm doth their influence give.
                                        —E. B. W.

OLD MAIDS ORGANIZE: The young women of Woodhaven, N. Y. have organized an "Old Maids' Consolation Association." They aver that they have been neglected by the young men, and now propose to retaliate. Not to be outdone, several young men met and organized an "Old Bachelors' Sympathetic and Consolation Society." Resolutions were adopted as follows: Resolved: That we, as representative young men of the community, deploring their hasty action in assigning themselves so prematurely to old maidhood, earnestly request them to reconsider their action. At the same time we extend our heartfelt sympathy and penitently promise to atone for past neglect. Resolved, That we appoint a committee to attend the next meeting of the "Old Maids' Consolation Association," and do all in their power to affect a consolidation of the two societies under the title of the "Mutual Consolation Association."

JUAB STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Apostle A. H. Lund said: "I am pleased to have the privilege of meeting with the sisters, and to hear of the good work they are performing, comforting the sick, and caring for the needy, it is a great mission; it is better to be good than great; it is a mission of love to help those who are in need; look after the needy especially those who do not always ask; for there are those who can not make their wants known; give in a way that they will not feel like paupers, but sons and daughters of the same father, extend the same charity as you would to your own brothers and sisters.—Ellen Goldsbrough, Asst. Sec.