[Before I Sleep by Maryhale Woolsey]

Before cutting knitted sweaters or shawls, if they are not already matted or felted, I put them in very hot water and run them in the washing machine until they are felted. To stitch the wool strips to the back of the rug, begin in the center and work toward the outer edge.
Stitch the first strip through the center.
Then fold back the first row and stitch the second as close to it as the thickness of the material and the width of the presser foot permit.
Keep repeating this procedure. Do not sew the ends of the strips of material together, nor lap them.
Butt them!
Pieces just two or three inches long can be used as well as the longer strips. To stitch on the strips, the longest stitch on. The machine works satisfactorily. Do not pull the strips as you sew them on, and be sure to allow plenty of material in turning corners. Otherwise, the rugs will not lie flat. To finish the edge, a second strip should be sewed on top of the last strip.
This double row gives added strength to the edge as well as increasing the thickness and appearance of the edge. A strip of braided materials also makes an effective finish for some types of rugs. In making these rugs, I find that it is much easier to sew the strips for the center portion of the rug on pieces of overalls, etc. And then fasten them to the back.
This does away with turning and twisting a big piece of backing material so frequently as is necessary when working in the center of the rug where the rows are so short. If on the piece of material thus used, space is left for another row or two of strips to be sewed, it can be pinned to the back and then attached permanently to it by merely stitching the next few rows through both the back and the piece of material. If I wish to use flowers and leaves in my rugs, I do not make them on the sewing machine. I fold a strip of material in two and tack the folded edge as I roll it up to form the flower. In sewing it to the back, I place the cut side up. I make leaves the same way, only they are made oval instead of round, Diana Elsworth Layton Enjoys Painting and Quiltmaking Hobbies Thelma L. Hunsaker 538
Salad Days
 Sara Mills 539
Waver Not Kate Richards 575
LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER
Theology: The Witnesses io The Book of Mormon Leland H. Monson 555
Visiting Teacher Messages: "Remember That My Spirit Will Not Always Strive With Man"
 Leone O. Jacobs 562
Work Meeting — Sewing: Patching
 Jean Ridges Jennings 563
Literature: Two Pre-Romantic Poets: James Thomson and William Collins Briant S. Jacobs 564
Social Science: The Revival of Learning Archibald F Bennett 568
Music: Efficiency in Teaching and Practicing Hymns and Anthems
 ,
 Florence Jepperson Madsen 572
POETRY
The Intervening Maryhale Woolsey 505
To Leaders
 Agda Gronbech Harlow 511
Gram Field
 Leila N. Smith 516
Helping Hand Phyllis Juhlin Park 520
Deep in This Night
 Katherine F. Larsen 527
Among the Ferns
 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 533
Home Gene Romolo 535
New Horizons Margaret Smith Larson 541
Poppies in Summer
 Linnie F. Robinson 547
Sea Call
 Mary Gustafson 575
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1. Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. S ubscription Price: