[Literature: Two Pre-Romantic Poets: James Thomson and William Collins by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature—The Literature of England Lesson 18—Two Pre-Romantic Poets: James Thomson and William Collins Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 20, 1951 é 'NATION S, like people, change, gradually yet show the effects suddenly."
This is true of the transition from the neo-classical to the romantic movement in literature.
Many writers, departing slightly from the past, planted the seeds which developed into romanticism, and are important because they form the link between the two periods. Usually, full-blown romanticism is said to have begun in 1798 with the publication of Lyrical Ballads by Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth, and the literary manifesto contained in the preface to the second edition of 1800. But such radical departures from neo-classical customs as this document contained could never have LESSON DEPARTMENT been as influential as they were had not the entire eighteenth century preceding been one of Rousseauism, revolution, and growing romanticism (study text, pp. 1-5).
During this hundred years, scores of writings appeared which emphasized one or another of the: many phases of romanticism, such as predominance of sentiment, emotion, and the imagination; belief in nature and the simple life as opposed to the evils of the rapidly-growing cities and factory towns; faith in the natural goodness and importance of common men; rebellion against certain economic, political, and religious conventions; belief in a mystical union of man with nature and thence with God; concern for the suffering of the lower classes; fascination for the melancholic, the mysterious, the morbid, and the horrible. Two eighteenth century poets, James Thomson and William Collins, reveal in their writings some of these elements, and are therefore important for our study of the romantic movement. James Thomson (1700-1748 ) Born a Scotchman, James Thomson (text, pp. 32-46) was educated at Edinburgh University for the ministry, but he became infatuated with verse-writing and went to seek his literary fortunes in London, where his easy-going attitude and evident cultivation earned for him a circle of influential, aristocratic friends. By shrewd manipulations he used his friends to procure royal pensions and easy, well-paid jobs at court, thus making possible the life of ease and complacency which he desired. His opinions were those of 565 the typical neo-classical gentlemen: proper, conservative, and sacred to his own self-esteem and that of his group. Few men would be more shocked at being called a revolutionist than he. Yet such we must label him, mild though his revolution might have been. Thomson's literary life was overshadowed by Pope, the literary czar of the day, whose axiom, "The proper study of mankind is man," was accepted as hardly less than prophecy by his contemporaries. Admiring Pope so much that he departed from his dominance ever so gently, he nevertheless departed. First, he spurned the heroic couplet to write in imitation of Milton's exalted blank verse; and second, his most significant work, The Seasons, contains no characters, but is a large, detailed description of the natural scene in its many moods throughout the year. He wrote in an age when description for its own sake was held to be beneath the concern of any mature writer, who, like Pope, wrote nature descriptions as a childlike exercise. 'Thus The Seasons opposed contemporary opinion, and became the first major work in the English tradition to honor nature for its beautiful, and hitherto undefined, rewards. To the modern mind it seems inconceivable that the beauties of nature were non-existent to the literary England of two hundred years ago. Yet such was true. For Thomson, nature is an awe-inspiring force of vast scope and variety, a power which, when properly revered and studied, soothes man's wounds received in the battle for wealth and 566 industrial power, and bestows upon.. A virtue.
Repose of mind, A pure ethereal calm, that knows no storm. (page 42, lines 36-37) In such belief in the healing powers of nature, he predicts Wordsworth's mystical nature-worship and prepares the way for him. In Thomson's "Winter" we find such evidences of his devotion to neo-classical artificialities as are found on page 34, lines 86-91, and in such phases as "the plumy race" (line 137) for birds. But we also find in his homage to nature a loftiness, a majestic passion for nature which would be a credit to the Milton he imitates. For example: I lived And sung of nature with unceasing joy, Pleased have I wandered through your rough domain; Trod the pure virgin-snows, myself as pure; Heard the winds roar, and the big torrent burst; Or seen the deep-fermenting tempest brewed In the grim evening sky. ("Winter," page 33, lines 8-14) The reeling clouds Stagger with dizzy poise, as doubting yet Which master to obey; while, rising slow, Blank in the leaden-colored east, the moon Wears a wan circle round her blunted horns. (page 35, lines 121-125) Through the black night that sits immense around, Lashed into foam, the fierce-conflicting brine Seems o'er a thousand raging waves to burn. (page 35, lines 158-161) Such passages as that following line 41 describing the winter scene,  are particularly somber and moving, and well worth reading aloud.
Nature becomes for Thomson a great parent, immediately identified in his mind with a personal, mystical relationship with God. The selection from "Winter" in our text ends with an impassioned plea for justice to all mankind, a theme which runs as well through his delightful "Castle of Indolence," one of the best known imitations of Spenser.
Within both selections are many passages which, because of their nature descriptions and their new humanitarianism, contain an immediate appeal. William Collins 1721-1759) In one sense the most intensely romantic of eighteenth century writers, William Collins (text, pp. 66- 72) was a true poet. The delicately skilled music of his language, and his ability to create the typically romantic mood of mystery and melancholy, are memorable. 'The exquisite quality of his imagination exemplifes his own definition of poetry, which he felt to be a divine, unrestrained imaginative power such as he had early found and loved in the works of Shakespeare and Milton.
Collins was born in Sussex and began writing verse before his teens. — He took his degree at Oxford and forsook the career of a minister for poetry.
Many grandiose literary plans rattled about in his head when he came to London, where he wrote but little, published less, and lived the life of an obscure, starving poet. By the time he was thirty his rare poetic talent was already obscured by physical illness and increasingly LESSON DEPARTMENT long periods of melancholy, which finally became so severe that he spent some years in a "madhouse"' before his death at age thirty-eight. It seems ironical that Collins, like Keats, whom he resembled both in mood and in his reverence for beauty and word-music, should die before the great promise of his genius was fulfilled.
Collins wrote poems on the romantic themes of patriotism, simplicity as opposed to the artificialities of the neo-classical writers, and death. But his unconventional, sensitive imagination gives to his better poems an aura of freshness and deli- - cate wonderment, so they are pecullarly and excellently his own. For example, read aloud "Dirge" in Cymbeline and. "Ode" (page 68), Melancholy, Cheerfulness, and Joy in "The Passions" (page 71) and "Ode on the Death of Mr. Thomson" (page 72). The last poem published during Collins' lifetime was ""The Passions" (page 70), an ode praising music as the vital ingredient of true poetry. In the final apostrophe to music he writes: "Tis said, and I believe the tale, Thy humblest reed could more prevail, Had more of strength, diviner rage, Than all which charms this laggard age. (page 72, lines 109-112) Although this poem is written in the popular couplet form, it opposes the contemporary emphasis on following strict form in poetry, and at the same time states Collins' own desire to restore to poetry the music which is the source of its greatness. If the reader is to catch and enjoy Collins' carefully wrought wordmusic, it is necessary that his lines 567 be sounded aloud, more so than for almost any poet we have discussed.
Poetry can never be divorced from the tones and images and words through which the soul of the poem is expressed, but in Collins, where so great an emphasis has been placed on sound and music of words, this is particularly true. His best work overflows with examples of alliteration (beginning consecutive words with the same sound: "solemn springs"); assonance (comparing vowel sounds which are similar but do not rhyme: bell—all—veil, page 70, lines 38-40); and onomatopoeia (on'amat'ape'a) (likening the sound of a word to the idea it contains: "the bat, with short shrill shriek," page 69, line 10). His best work, and what has been called one of the loveliest poems of the century, is "Ode to Evening" (text, page 69). The meaning of this poem is more apparent to the senses and feelings than to logic, therefore to be understood it must be read aloud, preferably many times. 'Then his sensitive vowel music becomes apparent, for when his lines are spoken slowly and with a rich fullness, the resonance chambers of the speaker's throat and head are singing continually with vowel sounds.
Almost any verse read aloud will prove this to be true, but read the following aloud, listening for the variety of singing vowels, and in "breathing tresses, meekest Eve" note the interlocking pattern of the long and short E sound.
Examplified as well are alliteration and assonance. While Spring shall pour his showers, as oft he wont, 568
And bathe thy breathing tresses, meekest Eve! While Summer loves to sport Beneath thy lingering light. (page 70, lines 41-44) Once we thus become aware of Collins' skill and care in building within the poem such accumulative, almost hidden appeals to something other than the listener's intellect, we are then more prepared to enjoy the serene, mysterious-yet-familiar mood of the entire poem in much the same way as we would listen to such music as Debussy's. One should not attempt to untravel the specific grammatical structure of the first sentence, which ends at line 20.
Instead these lines should be read as an emotional, lyrical praise to Evening.
They express the  poet's desire to be cast beneath the spell of dusk, a spell which these lines themselves create. The rest of the poem tells of Evening's arrival, and of her taking the poet to various scenes in nature which are swayed by her influence. If you can live with this poem long enough to make it your own, you will be rewarded with the delight and power it gives.
Questions for Discussion 1. How did Thomson depart from, and agree with, the doctrines of his aristocratic literary friends? 2. Why is Thomson called a nature poet? 3. How did Collins exemplify his own theory of poetry? 4. Why is "Ode to Evening"' a romantic poem? Social Sctence—The Progress of Man Part 2—From Darkness Into Dawn Lesson 9—The Revival of Learning Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapters 16 and 17.) For Tuesday, November 27, 1951 - Objective: To depict the stages by which the minds of men, awakened by the Spirit of the Lord, began to be freed from the chains that enslaved them. The Renaissance was the dawning of that day. Indifference Towards Learning The great majority of the people during the Middle Ages were wholly without an education.
They lived their simple life on their farms as their fathers and grandfathers had done; they had their games and their = festivals, they served their feudal landlords and paid heavy taxes, but they cared nothing for books and leaming and knew little of the great world about them (Exson, HEenry W-.: Modern Times and the Living Past).
During these dark times there was little to give encouragement or incentive to the common people to seek learning.
Since all books were written by hand, a very tedious practice, and were therefore limited LESSON DEPARTMENT and exceedingly expensive, they were beyond the meager means of the common people. Moreover, such books were in the Latin language.
Translations of the Bible were chained to the pulpits in the churches, and were accessible only to the priests who guarded them with a jealous eye. In those days if a man was accused of a crime, and he could read and write (of course this would be in Latin), he was entitled to a trial before the ecclesiastical courts, where to convict required the testimony of numerous witnesses. However, if a layman was accused, two witnesses were sufficient to obtain a conviction.
Learning on the part of the common people was discouraged and looked upon as the special prerogative of the clergy.
Springtime of the Renaissance Conditions of this kind could not endure forever. 'The Lord never intended that man should be kept in ignorance. 'The time had to come when the minds of men were to be freed from the chains that enslaved them.
This time of a revival of learning is generally spoken of as The Renaissance, or "rebirth."
This period marks the division between the Middle Ages and what we call the beginning of modern times. John Addington Symonds has said: However, it is generally stated that near the end of the fifteenth and beginning of the sixteenth century formed the real springtime of this era.
Following the twelfth century the first dawn of light began to appear. The world was like a great giant who gradually began to stir from a long drunken stupor, sit up, tub his eyes and look about him, hold his aching head and try to work the stiff- 569 ness out of his joints, and realize the awful plight he had been in; then gradually as the blood began to course normally he began once again to find himself and put himself in order with his surroundings. Let us not forget that the hand of the Lord was over the people and the set time for the dawn of a better day had come by divine decree (Symonps, Joun AppincTon: The Beginning and Progress of the Renaissance). "Nothing Takes Place by Accident" Nothing in the great world which concerns the well being of man takes place by accident, but is brought forward by divine will, precisely at the moment most suitable to our condition. So it was with astronomy, the Mariner's compass, the steam engine, gas, the electric telegraph, and many other of those blessings which have progressed with civilization. The elements were there and known, but the time had not arrived for their fructification (GzorcE Henry Bonn, see text page 198). In these latter days it is easy for members of the Church to understand how the Spirit of the Lord was working among the people in former times. 'The awakening in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, which took on momentum in the following three centuries, was the dawning of the day in which the fulness of freedom and religious liberty was to be ushered in. All the discoveries and inventions which followed were to make preparation for the restoration of the gospel once again in its fulness.
Long before the awakening in Europe there had been progress in literature, art, and science among the Saracens, who...
During the Dark Ages, were almost the sole repositories of the scientific knowledge of the world. A part of this they gathered for themselves, for the 570
Arabian scholars were original investigators, but a large share of it. They borrowed from the Greeks. While the Western nations were too ignorant to know the value of the treasures of antiquity, the Saracens preserved them by translating into Arabic the scientific works of Aristotle, the treatises on medicine by Galen, and the astronomical writings of the Alexandrian Greeks; and then, when Europe was prepared to appreciate these accumulations of the past, gave them back to her (Myers, see text, page 200). Effect of the Crusades on Learning The crusades were great military expeditions by the Christians of Europe intended to wrest the Holy Land from the Mohammedans. They were inspired by religious fervor and fanaticism and the love of adventure on the part of the soldier who was trained for war. The first crusade was undertaken in 1096, and there were seven others up to 1272. These crusades, while they failed in the purpose for which they were conducted, did result in an enlarged view and understanding on the part of the people of Europe. East and West were brought nearer to each other. The knights and soldiers who engaged in these wars brought to the people of Europe many new thoughts and ideas about the world. The increased knowledge of geography, a better understanding of the Mohammedan, and contact with the learning of the East, stimulated the desire for further knowledge. As knowledge regarding the peoples of other lands began to dawn upon the Europeans, and as there were brought into their communities many new things in the form of merchandise, the desire was increased to have more intimate intercourse with these people of the 
East. 'The crusades and the adventures of such men as Marco - Polo and Sir John Mandevil stimulated the desire for trade. Extended voyages resulted in the building of better ships, and when the mariner's compass came into general use, long voyages could be safely taker. In 1498, after Columbus had been to the Western -World, Vasco de Gama made a successful voyage to India whence had come most of the merchandise from the East. The use of gunpowder brought to an end the age of chivalry and its medieval castles. Eventually it also brought the introduction of more powerful weapons of war. Ships had to be reconstructed on a large and stronger scale. The horrors of war became more terrible, the end of which, unfortunately, the world has not yet seen. Benefits From Accumulated Knowledge From the commencement of the revival many agencies were at work, each doing its particular part in the great work of reconstruction and restoration. These agencies were to bring back to the world much of the culture and knowledge which had been lost through darkness caused by the-rejection of the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and the revealed word of the Lord. The world has benefited wonderfully by the accumulation of knowledge and experience coming down from the distant past. We speak of the "Dark Ages" of the world, and the "revival of learning" which followed, and in this we speak truly, for the light which LESSON DEPARTMENT came in the beginning was taken away and was followed by gross spiritual darkness. Then, when the Lord saw fit to bring it about, he revived the minds of men in preparation for the restoration of his divine truth in the dispensation of the fulness of times. The Origin of Printing It is declared by many scholars that the discovery, or invention, of printing is the greatest of all inventions. Whether or not this be true, it must be conceded that printing has had a most powerful effect upon the civilization of the world. The incentive for knowledge increased immeasurably after the invention of printing. Printing with movable type is of comparatively recent origin. 'The great discovery was that of making each letter separately, so as to make possible the rearranging and forming of words, lines, and pages of a printed book, thus avoiding the cutting of new blocks for each page. The claim of Johannes Gutenberg to the invention of this kind of type is generally conceded. Printing dated from about 1438. In the middle of the fifteenth century there were several books printed by means of movable type, and before 1500 printing presses had been set up in some 220 different places in Europe. It was about the time of the invention of printing that the perfecting of making paper out of rags was accomplished. 'This discovery did away with the expensive means of making books by hand which was the custom in the days when scribes had to write each volume with a pen. 571
The Printing of the Bible The first printed book from movable type was a Latin edition of the Bible which appeared between 1450 and 1455. We are informed that in the last thirty years of the fifteenth century, 10,000 books and pamphlets were published in Europe. In that day it was a wonderful accomplishment. The desire of the clergy, which was impressed upon the people by physical force, was to prevent the common people from learning to read and write for fear they would demand the privilege of reading and interpreting the Bible for themselves. No matter how much pressure could be brought to bear by those in authority against printing and the reading of printed Bibles, the ability to read and write continued ts grow among the people. The publication of books, including the Bible, was too great a force to be stemmed by the puny arm of tyranny. Like an irresistible flood, printing and the desire to read what was printed, swept over the entire land. 'This flood-tide spelled the doom of Latin as the language of literature. Books in the everyday speech of the people began to multiply. Moreover, no matter how severe the threats were against the translating, printing, and reading of the Bible in the native tongues, this work continued. Printing of the Bible had to be done secretly in those days, and most of the time no one knew where it was done. As time went on more and more copies of the Bible appeared in the vernacular tongues, and the tide could not be stemmed. Finally, through the in- 572 crease of light and freedom which ' was brought about by the reformers, the work of disseminating copies of the Bible among the people continued openly and steadily until all the people had the blessed privilege of owning copies of the scriptures. So the time came that, instead of its being considered a crime for a man to read the Bible to his family, men were taught to reverently read the scriptures. 'This reading was taught as a duty which every man owes to his faith and to his God. 
Thoughts for Discussion 1. Account for the lack of education among the masses of the people during - the Dark and Middle Ages. 2. Name some lasting effects from the use of the mariner's compass and of gunpowder. 3. What benefits came to Europeans through the crusades? 4. Enumerate the direct results to the common people from the printing of numerous books, especially the Bible. 5. How is the hand of the Lord manifest in this reawakening? Nlusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52
Lesson 10—Efficiency in Teaching and Practicing Hymns and Anthems Florence Jepperson Madsen Objective: To make song rehearsals more effective and successful through careful planning and definite procedures. "As every thread of gold is valuable, so is every moment of time" (John Mason). The Proper Use of Time (a) Since time is so valuable and but so little available for practice purposes, the conductor and the accompanist should do everything possible to use it judiciously in rehearsals. (b) They should study and practice together for greater efficiency in understanding and teaching the Latter-day Saint hymns and other song literature. _(c) To do this it is necessary that they plan their work jointly and arrange all essential details well in advance of the practice periods. Creating an Interest in Group Singing (a) Constant effort should be made to create a desire in the hearts of the sisters to experience the inspiration and joy of singing together. (b) Most people can sing in a group if they wish to do so, and their singing can be greatly improved through practice. These points should often be emphasized.. (c) "Those whose love and knowledge of music will enable them not only to receive but also to give, will always be the happiest. For music, being harmony, is a companionable art, and activity in music carries with it one of the greatest enjoyments which people can have" (Eric Clarke: Music in Everyday Life). The Love of Music Among the Latter-day Saints (a) The Latter-day Saints have always been a music-loving people. They have been outstanding in their choral and congregational singing.
LESSON DEPARTMENT (b) It has ever been the policy of the Church to make available appropriate hymn and anthem books. (c) The recently published hymn book (Hymns) fumishes added richness in song material. (d) Most of the numbers written for mixed voices can be sung as congregational songs by Relief Society using the soprano and alto parts, or the soprano part only. (e) The Singing Mothers should frequently use the hymns that have been arranged for women's voices. (f) "The singing of our sacred hymns, written by the servants of God, has a powerful effect in converting people to the principles of the gospel and in promoting peace and spiritual growth...." (PRestDENT HEBER J. Grant: Gospel Standards, page 168). Procedures and Methods in Presenting Hymns and Songs (a) "... Method is essential if you would get through your work easily and with economy of time' (William Mathews). (b) When a new song is to be practiced by a group, most of whom cannot read music, the following plan should be used: 1.°Study the words first. Have these given by a good reader, or have the group tread them. 2. Mention outstanding characteristics or events concerning the author. 3. State briefly the philosophy of the words. 4. Describe type and style of composition. 5. Relate something of interest in the composer's life. 6. Have the accompanist play the song to establish accuracy of melody, rhythm, and tempo. 7. Play the melody and have sopranos hum along with it. 8. Play the melody and have sopranos sing the words, phrase by phrase. G. Practice the other vocal parts similarly. 10. Rehearse the various parts together, such as: first and second sopranos; second sopranos and altos; or sopranos and altos. 573
Reautiful (tae ES f Keliof Society Singers Dil Bless This House—Brahe _____..$.16 os If With All Your Hearts— Mendelssohn-Harris __..__ 16 — If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments—Madsen _ 20 a Invocation—Moore _ _.16 — King of Glory—Parks _ —.20 Rs Lord's Prayer—Gates —ié«iwzd —— My God and I—Wihtol Ss.20 _ My Task—Ashford si _ Peace I Leave With You— Roberts. > a, Praise Ye The Father—Gounod_.10
Music Sent on Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. [1] On Approval C) Charge [] Money Enclosed ee Se Neb cies MAIN STREET Lo 4 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAN 574 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos -KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built —— All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. Thee Deseret News Press 40
Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah  11. Sing all parts together with the accompaniment. (The procedures listed above are fundamentals of the "part method."') (c) When a new hymn or vocal composition is introduced to a group who can read music: 1. Sing it through from beginning to end without a stop. 2. Sing it two or three times in unison, or in parts, as written. 3. Correct mistakes that have been made. 4. Study the words as directed above under b numbers (1) and (3). (These are a few of the procedures that belong to the "Whole method" of study. ): Application of the Foregoing Principles, Procedures, and Methods Practice the following hymns: 1. With congregation (a) "Hear Thou Our Hymn, O Lord," (New) Hymns. (b) "May the Grace of Christ, Our Saviour," Deseret Sunday School Songs. 2. With Singing Mothers Chorus (a) "Bring, Heavy Heart, Your Grief to Me." (New) Hymns. (b) "Come, Let Us Sing an Evening Hymn," (New) Hymns. (c) "May the Grace of Christ, Our Saviour," Deseret Sunday School Songs. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What is the value and the purpose of congregational singing? 2. Name a few fundamental procedures in teaching new songs. 3. How may time be used to the best advantage in rehearsals? References for Further Reading WobELL, W. F.: Choir and Chorus Conducting (may be found in any large library). Pyrer, GeorcE D.: Stories of Latterday Saint Hymns. CAN WHEN YOU CAN 575
Can When You Can (Continued from page 523) many of us, our canning shelves hold a large portion of our "onhand" food supply. To fill those shelves is a big job, but it is one of the most satisfying of the major household tasks. True, the peeling gets tedious, standing over steaming kettles is wilting. Cleaning up the kitchen afterward is an irksome task. All that disappears, however, in the pleasure of putting away the finished product. And as much as I appreciate the convenience and advantages of tin cans, I enjoy looking at shelves of glass jars where the tempting goodness shows. The rich colors blend into a variegated pattern that brings thanksgiving into a woman's heart. O—i2- Sea Call Mary Gustafson The level sameness stretches far to cast Wave-rippled dullness on the yellowed field. No mountain cuts the monotone to shield The weary eyes. 'Twin ribboned lanes lead past The house; here heaviness of wheels, in vast, Unnumbered trips, leaves ruts. Years are concealed Through days of seeding to the time of yield— An evenness of world without contrast. This dream that circles days at harvest-end Must break the crust of years, the bonds that cling To prairie soil. My longings overflow As hope returns the sea beyond the bend Of grain, beyond the acres over-burdening Of green... The call repeats, and I must go. @ 4 q 4