The Importance of Thrift (Continued from page 509) established themselves firmly and securely "in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." Thrift is rooted deeply in human life and reflects the character of a people. Personal discipline and personal sacrifice are necessary to a strong character. Relief for the unfortunate and those handicapped calls for a great emotion, and can be supplied only by those who work and save. The modern world has been beguiled into a false sense of security and, sooner or later, it must learn that no social device can take the place of thrifty habits, frugal living, and hard work, in making people economically secure and politically free and independent.
Night Callers (Continued from page 525) his speech lapsed into his native Shoshone. Turning, he summoned his braves to his side and ordered all his people to come to the great lodge. The lodge was a high, long tepee, covered with buffalo skins and filled, for decoration, with the heads of many animals. Nancy and her children were given the seat of honor beside the chief and his braves. The celebration began with a tribal dance. A young brave, dressed in brilliant scarlet and black, came into the center of the lodge. Thirty braves, painted and enveloped in beads and tiny bells, formed a large circle around him. At the sound of his drum, they all began moving in perfect unison. The dance was followed by a feast. Pumpkin, potatoes, corn, deer steaks, everything that the tribe had, was brought to Nancy, seated beside the chief. At the close of the feast, Nancy explained to her host her need for returning to her cabin in' the valley. Chief Many Feathers consented, and accompanied them down the mountain into the valley. They arrived at the door of the cabin just as the sun was slipping behind the peaks of the western mountains. As there were no wagon tracks in the soft, powdery earth, Nancy knew that Jim had not yet returned. At the door of the cabin, Chief Many Feathers stopped. Raising his arms, he removed a beautiful handwoven red, yellow, and blue blanket from around his broad shoulders. Stooping, he gently placed it around Nancy, and, for the first time, his face lost its stern look of noble dignity in a smile. He said, "Great Spirit of Shoshone children, keep evil one from wigwam of white princess." Nancy, unable to speak, grasped a hand of each of her children, and through her tears she watched the great chief swiftly climb the mountain path back to his people. LESSON Theology Church History Lesson I8
The Priesthood Quorums Expanded Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 5, 1946