[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Self-Confidence Larsen]
personality.  Study  yourself  in  the 
mirror.  It  is  your  truest  critic.  Be- 
come familiar  with  your  weak  points 
Suggestions  to  Class  Leaders:  Bring 
materials  of  different  colors,  patterns,  and 
textures.  Drape  them  on  women  of  differ- 
ent types  for  good  or  bad  effects. 
Experiment  with  different  necklines. 
Textbook  References:  The  Complete 
Book  of  Sewing,  Book  Presentations,  N.Y. 
1943,  I  and  II. 
(J^iterature— America  as  Revealed  in  its  Literature 
Elder  Howard  R.  Diiggs 
Preview  of  Lessons  for  1946-47 
H ISTORY  tells  what  man  has 
done;  literature  reflects  how 
he  felt  about  it.  Within  the  songs, 
stories,  orations,  drama,  and  other 
types  of  creative  expression  may 
be  felt  the  heartthrobs  of  a  people. 
If  these  creations  are  in  consonance 
with  fact;  if  they  are  true  to  h'fe, 
and  particularly  if  they  are  true  to 
truth,  they  help  make  of  history  a 
living  reality. 
Our  central  purpose  in  this  series 
of  studies  is  to  discover  and  enjoy 
literature  that  "rings  true'*  to  the 
inner  spirit  of  America.  This  means 
an  alluring  search  for  the  gold  nug- 
gets that  lie  in  the  common  sand 
and  gravel.   It  means  a  careful  test-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
485 
ing  of  literary  selections  to  separate 
the  true  from  the  false— to  find  that 
which  is  soundly  based  on  the  fun- 
damental principles  of  real  Ameri- 
canism. ^ 
These  principles  are  rooted  in 
true  religion.  Our  nation,  someone 
has  said,  was  Bible-born.  Certain  it 
is  that  literature  which  truly  reflects 
its  inmost  spirit  is  soundly  demo- 
cratic in  the  highest  sense— is  in  ac- 
cord with  the  spirit  of  true  Chris- 
tianity. We  shall  do  well  to  discov- 
er and  foster  such  upbuilding  liter- 
ature. It  is  protective  and  patriotic 
to  do  so. 
In  carrying  forward  this  important 
study,  a  series  of  lessons  covering 
two  years'  work  is  planned.  During 
the  first  year,  the  unfolding  epic  of 
America,  viewed  in  the  high  lights 
of  its  literature,  will  be  presented. 
For  the  second  year,  a  more  inten- 
sive study  of  chosen  types  of  truly 
American  literature  will  be  made. 
From  such  lessons,  rich  in  content 
and  systematically  followed,  should 
come  a  clearer  vision  of  America  as 
our  founding  fathers  began  it,  and 
as  our  pioneers  carried  it  "from  sea 
to  shining  sea."  Here  is  a  wealth  of 
good  reading  and  spiritual  uplift. 
In  offering  it,  there  is  clear  realiza- 
tion of  a  vast,  rich  field.  A  temp- 
tation will  be  constant  for  teachers 
and  students  to  stray  away  from  the 
main  road  to  alluring  byways.  This 
must  be  resisted  if  the  goal  —  a 
clearer  understanding  of  America, 
and  more  devotion  to  this  land  of 
liberty— is  to  be  achieved.  Let  that 
beacon  light  be  the  guide,  and  rich 
rewards  from  the  work  will  be  won. 
Units  of  Study 
Lesson  i.  Our  AmeTican  Indians 
in  Literature 
Inwoven  with  the  epic  of  America's 
making  in  vital  ways  is  the  story  of  the  red 
men.  To  get  a  more  appreciative  under- 
standing of  this  colorful  race — the  first 
Americans  we  know — is  the  aim  of  this 
study.  Better  understanding  of  Indians, 
their  nature,  their  admirable  traits,  their 
helpful  contributions  to  our  developing  set- 
tlement and  civilization,  will  come  as 
worthy  literature  portraying  Indian  life 
and  thought  is  studied.  This  may  be  found 
both  in  what  expression  we  have  from 
Indians  themselves,  and  in  that  produced 
by  authors  who  have  caught  something  of 
their  true  nature  and  spirit. 
Latter-day  Saints  have  a  special  interest 
and  added  knowledge  and  light  for  a  deep- 
er insight  into  this  alluring  theme. 
Lesson  2.  CoJonial  Founders  of 
America  in  Literature 
Columbus,  led  by  inspiration,  opened  a 
new  world.  Following  the  great  discoverer 
came  folk  of  varied  types  seeking  adven- 
ture, gold,  and  opportunity  for  greater 
freedom.  So  far  as  our  own  land  is  concern- 
ed, most  of  these  liberty  seekers  wanted  a 
place  where  they  could  worship  God  ac- 
cording to  the  dictates  of  their  own  con- 
science. This  study  will  be  centered 
mainly  on  these  courageous.  God-fearing 
souls  who  builded  better  than  they  knew. 
From  them  has  come  to  us  a  heritage  that 
grows  richer  with  the  passing  years. 
Our  part  is  to  get  closer  to  the  Bible- 
loving  folk  who  dared  the  wide  sea  in  their 
frail  craft,  and  planted  on  the  shores  of 
our  America  their  homes,  their  churches 
and  schools.  From  some  of  these  homes 
came  many  of  the  founders  of  our  faith. 
Lesson  3.  America's  First  War  for 
Freedom— in  Literature 
Man's  struggle  for  liberty — a  long,  hard 
upcHmb  through  the  ages — flames  into 
brilliant  reality  during  our  Revolutionary 
War.  Songs,  stories,  orations  and  essays 
truly  expressive  of  this  fighting  epoch, 
will  help  bring  its  inner  significance  to  us. 
This  literature  is  vibrant  with  aspiration 
and  courage  of  a  people  who  visioned 
clearly  their  "inalienable  right  to  life, 
liberty  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness."  To 
secure  this  right  they  went  through  the 
fires  of  testing  conflict.    It  is  a  precious

486 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1946 
heritage  they  have  bequeathed  to  us — one 
we  should  study  with  devotion. 
Lesson  4.  Youthtimc  of  a  Nation 
Dedicated  to  Fieedom 
Winning  a  war  is  one  thing;  winning  a 
lasting  peace  is  a  sequence  of  as  profound 
significance.  In  the  story  of  the  drafting 
and  adopting  of  our  Constitution,  is 
drama  of  quiet  intensity  not  often  realiz- 
ed by  those  who  live  under  its  provisions 
and  protection.  The  Lord  has  told  us 
that  this  great  charter  of  freedom  is 
God-inspired.  We  shall  do  well  to 
understand  it  better — to  get  closer  to  the 
story  of  its  making.  Some  of  the  literature 
to  be  studied  in  this  unit  will  help  achieve 
that  result. 
Lesson  7.  America  thiough  Test- 
ing Years 
This  study,  centering  on  the  period  of 
struggle  to  abolish  slavery  and  the  hold- 
ing of  the  Union,  offers  opportunity  to 
get  closer  to  the  h^rts  of  the  people  of 
both  sides  of  the  conflict.  A  wealth  of 
literature,  portraying  the  varied  phases  of
