[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers' Messages: Love of Fellow Man President Amy Brown Lyman]
from  pure  white  through  lovely 
pinks  into  rosy  shades:  cherry,  sal- 
mon, mauve,  lavender,  scarlet,  and 
purple.  You  can  make  a  garden  of 
color  and  perfume  worthy  of  a  great 
occasion  with  this  fine  flower  alone. 
Small  clumps  of  phlox  can  be 
moved  while  in  full  bloom,  if  they 
are  well  watered  before  being  dug, 
and  if  they  are  kept  well  soaked  after 
moving.  They  will  continue  to 
bloom  if  they  are  planted  in  their 
new  location  at  once.  After  bloom- 
ing, the  clumps  will  continue  to  de- 
velop so  that  by  next  year  they  will 
produce  large  masses  of  showy 
bloom.  Select  yours  this  year  if  you 
can.  Many  of  them  can  be  found 
still  blooming,  for  their  flowering .. 
season  is  a  long  one. 
Phlox  plants  require  a  well-en- 
riched soil  and  prefer  a  spot  receiving 
a  little  afternoon  shade.  They  also 
appreciate  additional  mulches  of 
manure  placed  directly  over  the 
stems  in  fall  and  before  the  flower- 
ing season.  If  the  garden  is  hot  and 
dr)%  phlox  will  need  additional 
mulching  to  keep  the  surface  from 
drying  out.  Lawn  clippings  or  peat 
moss  are  excellent  for  this  purpose.

GARDEN  MAKING  FOR  CENTENNIAL  DAYS 
521 
They  need  deep  and  regular  soakings 
during  the  flowering  season.  Such 
attentions  bring  good  returns  in 
large  heads  of  flowers  and  rich,  deep 
colorings. 
Utah  can  blaze  with  color  next 
midsummer,  with  iris,  phlox,  del- 
phiniums, and  other  hardy  peren- 
nials. In  addition,  we  can  ha\e  the 
bloom  of  manv  colorful  annuals  that 
can  be  planted  next  spring.  There  is 
no  need  for  anv  home  to  remain 
shabby  or  unadorned  during  the 
Centennial  year,  if  work  is  begun  at 
once. 
Let  us  put  forth  our  best  efforts 
so  that  the  stranger  within  our  gates 
will  carr}-  away  sweet,  flowery  mem- 
ories of  our  Utah  homes.  Let  our 
well-kept,  and  flower  -  adorned 
homes  speak  the  friendly  message  of 
peace  and  beauty. 
GARDEN  OF  MRS.  JOHN  H.  BENNETT 
The  graceful,  curving  brick  walk  and  the  arrangement  of  the  border  in  front  of 
the  tulip  beds,  lend  an  Old  World  charm  to  this  lo\ely  garden.

Night  Callers 
Gladys  Dewey 
EVERY  crack  in  the  long,  one-  had  not  dared  to  build  a  fire,  for 
room  log  cabin  had  been  cov-  smoke  could  be  seen  or  smelled  even 
ered.  From  the  outside  not  though  the  cabin  was  far  below  the 
one  tiny  slit  of  light  could  be  seen.  Indian  village  high  up  in  the  mist- 
Nancy  Parker  fitted  her  white  shawl  covered  mountains.  Having  smoke 
comfortably  around  her  shoulders  coming  from  the  chimney,  if  the 
and  settled  herself  in  her  beeswax-  Indians  had  seen  Jim  Parker's  wagon 
polished  oak  rocker.  John  and  Mar-  leave,  would  be  inviting  trouble,  for 
tha  had  been  put  to  bed,  and  every-  they  would  know  that  Nancy  was 
thing  was  in  readiness.  All  she  alone.  Night  had  come  early  and 
could  do  now  was  wait.  settled  with  foggy  darkness  so  thick 
Her  deep  blue  eyes  wandered  over  it  seemed  you  would  be  able  to 
the  long  room  that  had  been  her  reach  out  and  touch  it.    Knowing 
home  for  almost  three  years,  falling  that  smoke  could  not  penetrate  such 
first  on  the  much-used  flour  sack  an  atmosphere,  she  had  hurriedly 
that  stood  upright  in  the  shadows  lit  the  fire. 
behind  the  door,  bulging  with  es-  Not  being  one  to  sit  with  folded 
sentials.  In  it  were  a  pair  of  home-  hands,  Nancy  took  her  knitting 
spun  trousers  John  had  outgrown,  a  from  the  basket  on  the  table  beside 
dress  Martha  had  worn,  some  red  her  and  began  another  row  on  her 
and  yellow  beads,  an  old,  but  still  husband's  socks, 
usable,  coat  of  her  husband's,  and  Jim  Parker  had  gone  on  his  yearly 
on  top  lay  a  mound  of  sweet  cookies,  journey  to  the  county  seat.  Pine 
They  were  all  the  right  gifts.  Nancy  City  was  forty  miles  away  and  it 
had  filled  that  same  sack  so  many  took  three  days  to  make  the  trip- 
times  that  she  knew  just  what  it  one  day  to  go,  one  to  transact  his 
should  contain.  business  and  buy  supplies  for  the 
At    a    murmured    sound    from  winter,  and  one  day  to  return. 
Martha,  her  eyes  darted  to  the  place         This    was    the    first    time    that 
where  two  curly-haired  children  lay  Nancy  had  not  been  with  him,  but 
cuddled  in  a  deep  feather  mattress,  the  distance  was  too  long,  and  the 
lying  on  the  spotlessly  clean  pine-  weather  too  uncertain  to  take  the 
board  floor.   A  multicolored  patch-  children,  Martha,    six,    and    John, 
work  quilt  was  over  them.  eight. 
Satisfied  that  the  children  were  «     *     * 
both  asleep,  Nancy  leaned  her  head         In   preparing   for   the    trip,    Jim 
against  the  back  of  her  chair  and  had  hitched  his  big  bays,  Maud  and 
watched  the  light  from  the  crackling  Pat,  to  his  covered  wagon  loaded 
pine  log  in  the  fireplace  as  it  played  with  feed  for  the  team  and  a  roll 
along  the  dark,  low  ceiling.  She  was  of  bedding  for  himself.  Before  leav- 
very  thankful  for  the  fire.  The  day  ing,  he  had  glanced  at  his  watch, 
had  been  cloudy  and  chilly,  but  she  then  scanned  the  heavens.    If  the 
Page  522

NIGHT  CALLERS  523 
late  October  sky  had  not  been  cov-  had  followed  her  brother  as  he  fed 
ered  with  a  solid  mass  of  dingy  gray  the  cows  and  pigs.  Feeding  the 
clouds,  the  sun  would  have  been  chickens  had  been  their  last  chore, 
just  peeking  over  the  rim  of  the  When  John,  imitating  his  father, 
mountain,  to  splash  in  through  the  had  given  her  the  task,  Martha  glee- 
small  window  onto  the  children's  fully  began  laying  tiny  handfuls  of 
bed.  But  that  morning  John  and  wheat  in  a  wide  circle,  counting 
Martha  had  been  up  and  dressed,  each  one,  to  be  sure  each  of  the  four- 
listening  carefully  to  every  instruc-  teen  fowls  had  her  own  share.  Late 
tion  their  father  had  given  them,  in  the  afternoon  Nancy  had  helped 
Good-byes  had  been  said  and  her  son  feed  and  milk  the  cows. 
Nancy  had  stood  in  front  of  the  Back  in  the  cabin,  Nancy  had  fre- 
cabin,  holding  each  of  the  children  quently  left  her  work  to  glance 
by  the  hand,  until  her  husband  had  through  the  window  at  the  children, 
disappeared  around  the  bend  in  the  to  assure  herself  that  they  were  all 
road.  right.   Although  she  had  lived  as  a 
John    had   then    withdrawn    his  neighbor  to  the  Indians  for  three 
hand  from  his  mother's,  for  hadn't  years,  she  was  still  nervous  when  the 
father  made  him  head  of  the  house  children  were  out  of  the  cabin.  Her 
during    his    absence?    Then,  with  work  had  gone  more  smoothly  after 
his  shoulders  thrown  back,  and  his  John  and  Martha  had  come  in,  early 
blue  eyes  sparkling  with  the  magni-  in  the  evening,  removed  their  coats 
tude  of  his  new  responsibility,  he  and  toboggan  caps,  and  sat  by  the 
had  looked  at  his  mother  and  small  fireplace  carefully  turning  the  pages 
sister,  and  echoed  a  phrase  of  his  of  an  old  mail-order  catalogue  which 
father's,  'Time's  a  passing,  so  better  Nancy  had  brought  with  her  from 
get  to  our  chores."  Indiana. 
Nancy  had  smiled  at  her  children  ♦  *  *  * 
and  gone  into  the  cabin  to  "get  to  CUDDENLY    Nancy's    thoughts 
her  chores,"  while  John  had  hunied  were  interrupted.  Dropping  her 
down  the  path  toward  the  woodpile  knitting,  she  riveted  her  eyes  on  the 
with  six-year-old  Martha  coming  on  heavily  bolted  door,  shaken  by  loud 
behind  as  fast  as  her  short,  stubby  knocking.   Fear  seized  her  and  she 
legs  would  let  her.  gripped  the  arms  of  her  chair. 
Jim  Parker  had  sawed  and  split  The  knocking  sounded  again, 
a  huge  pile  of  white  pine  and  ma-  Nancy  arose  and  went  to  the  door, 
pie  for  the  children  to  put  in  the  Sliding  back  the  bolt,  she  felt  cer- 
lean-to  shed  just  around  the  north-  tain  she  knew  what  she  would  see 
ern  corner  of  the  cabin.  John  had  be-  outside,  and  glanced  at  the  gift-filled 
gun  loading  a  pile  of  the  big  chunks  flour  sack.  But,  instead  of  a  beg- 
in the  crook  of  his  arm,  while  Martha  ging  old  squaw  croaking,  "Give 
gathered  the  small  kindling  pieces,  biscuit,  Shoshone  hungi)',"  a  tall, 
Back  and  forth  they  had  gone  until  willow-straight  Indian  came  into  the 
not  one  chunk  was  left.  Then,  tuck-  room,  foll^jred  by  two  blanketed 
ing  her  long,  black  curls  further  braves.  The|fc;elight  sparkled  in  and 
under  her  bright  red  cap,  Martha  out  among  tSe  beads  around  his