[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: The Mayflower Compact]

The Mayflower Compact
November 11, 1620
"In the name of God, Amen. We whose names are underwritten, the loyal subjects of our dread soveraigne Lord, King James, by the grace of God, of Great Britaine, Franc, and Ireland king, defender of the faith, etc.
"Having undertaken for the glorie of God, and advancemente of the Christian faith and honour of our king and countrie a voyage to plant the first colonie in the Northerne parts of Virginia, doe by these presents solemnly and mutually in the presence of God, and one of another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civill body politick, for our better ordering and preservation and furtherance of the ends aforesaid; and by virtue hereof to enacte, constitute, and frame such just and equall lawes, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and offices, frome time to time, as shall be thought most meete and convenient for the generall good of the colonie, unto which we promise all due submission and obedience.
"In witness whereof we have hereunder subscribed our names at Cap-Codd the .11. of November, in the year of the raigne of our soveraigne lord, King James, of England, Franc, and Ireland, the eighteenth, and of Scotland the fiftie fourth. Anno-Dom. 1620" (William Bradford, History of Plymouth Plantation, page 191). PRICELESS GEM Ruth H. Chadwick Within my soul a jeweled faith Holds firm my trust in God; Its sparkling facets guide my steps Across uncharted sod. 
  AUGUST 1946
Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 2
The General Gospel Plan Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, November 19, 1946 S pointed out in the lesson *" last month, one great principle which we struggled to maintain in the pre-existence was that of individual free agency. As a necessary step for the utilization of this principle, the earth was created and we were given mortal existence.
Earth life thus became, in reality, a laboratory in which mortals were to | exercise the gift of free agency in the choice of good and evil. We believed in this plan so intently that we accepted the responsibility of earth life without any guarantee of our ultimate exaltation. It was a time "when the morning stars sang together, and the sons of God shouted for joy" (Job 38:7).
Mankind was thus placed upon the earth to pass through a period of apprenticeship that would be a preparation for the next step in eternal progression.
Certain things were expected of those who accepted mortality. First, obedience to the commandments of God was anticipated. And one that was like unto God had said, "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them" (Abraham 3:25).
From this scripture it is evident that obedience to divine law is the first requirement for readmittance into the presence of God, but it is merely the minimum requirement.  A second obligation in connection with the use of free agency and its exercise is that of taking the initiative to do more than give mere obedience to specific commandments. The Lord has instructed us to watch for opportunities to render service to others and assume the responsibility of taking the initiative in such matters. For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And _ inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned... (Doc. And Cov. 58:26-29).
This scripture is positive in its teaching that the Lord requires us to do more than merely observe commandments. We must be prepared to go "the second mile" (Matt. 5:41).