[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Faith Is a Heritage Chapter 5 Christie Lund Coles]
508 
RELIfF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1946 
strength  and  wisdom,  and  thus 
fortified  himself  to  withstand  the 
forces  which  were  conspiring  against 
him. 
Nowhere  is  thrift  more  impor- 
tant than  in  the  home.  Nowhere 
are  the  consequences  of  extrava- 
gance and  waste  more  destructive 
of  human  happiness.  Ordinarily,  the 
proper  management  of  a  home  is  a 
full-time  job.  It  calls  for  wisdom, 
determination,  and  perseverance. 
The  mother  who  neglects  the  home 
to  augment  the  family  income  or 
to  engage  in  futile  amusements  and 
social  pastimes,  frequently  docs  so 
at  a  great  cost  and  a  sacrifice  of 
family  solidarity." 
It  is  estimated  that  seventy-five 
per  cent  of  the  family  income  is 
spent  either  directly  or  indirectly  by 
the  housewife.  This  expenditure 
covers  items  which  are  essential  to 
the  happiness  and  well-being  of  the 
entire  family.  Any  plan  that  will 
be  helpful  in  solving  the  domestic 
problem  of  income  and  outgo  is 
worthy  of  careful  thinking  and 
thorough  consideration.  To  devise 
and  to  put  into  successful  operation 
such  a  plan  offers  a  challenge  to  the 
wisest  and  most  businesslike  house- 
hold. The  prudent  and  conscien- 
tious homemaker  will  welcome  any 
suggestion  that  will  strengthen  the 
family  economics. 
A  budget  is  a  financial  plan  by 
which  the  spending  and  investment 
of  money  is  controlled.  Its  purpose 
is  to  avoid  loose,  thoughtless,  and 
wasteful  methods.  It  deals  with 
such  items  as  food,  clothing,  shelter, 
doctor  bills,  amusement,  charity,  in- 
surance, savings,  contributions,  and 
many  others  that  come  up  for  con- 
sideration  in   a  family.  Adherence 
to  a  budget  probably  means  a  great- 
er effort,  a  more  frugal  fare,  and  a 
severe  discipline;  but  it  also  means 
a  sense  of  security  and  worthiness, 
a  conservation  of  resources,  and  a 
step  towards  a  prosperous  and  pro- 
ductive life,  and,  certainly,  a  step 
away  from  vice,  luxury,  and  osten- 
tation. 
Calvin  Coolidge,  who  had  a  repu- 
tation for  frugality  and  thrift,  speak- 
ing to  a  gathering  of  newspapermen, 
made  the  following  statement: 
Extravagance  lengthens  the  hours  and 
diminishes  the  rewards  of  labor.  I  favor 
the  policy  of  economy,  not  because  I  wish 
to  save  money,  but  because  I  wish  to 
save  people.  Every  dollar  that  we  care- 
lessly waste  means  that  their  life  will  be 
so  much  the  more  meager.  Every  dollar 
that  we  prudently  save  means  that  their 
iife  will  be  so  much  the  more  abundant. 
Thrift,  in  its  broadest  sense,  con- 
sists of  the  efficient  and  productive 
direction  of  one's  energies.  It  en- 
ters into  every  field  of  honorable 
endeavor.  The  artist  who  paints  a 
picture  employs  thrifty  habits,  for 
he  builds  upon  something  he  has 
already  achieved.  The  housewife 
who  patiently  and  methodically 
adds  comfort  and  attractiveness  to 
the  home  practices  thrift.  So  does 
the  farmer  who  plants,  cultivates, 
fertilizes,  and  increases  the  produc- 
tivity of  his  fields.  There  is  no  pro- 
gress without  thrift.  It  is  the  corner- 
stone of  our  entire  industrial  life. 
The  old-fashioned  economic  vir- 
tues are  as  sound  today  as  they  were 
when  the  pioneers  laid  the  founda- 
tions of  all  we  have  and  are.  They 
are  fundamentallv  and  essentially 
progressive,  and  point  the  way  to  a 
better  and  a  more  satisfying  life.

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  THRIFT  509 
rpXTRAVAGANCE  is  misdirect-  making,  insist  on  beginning  married 
ed  and  wasted  energy.  It  is  the  life  with  all  the  comforts  and  con- 
road  that  leads  to  poverty  and  disap-  veniences  of  their  parental  home, 
pointment.  It  undermines  character  They  fail  to  take  into  consideration 
and  robs  one  of  the  power  to  proceed  the  long  struggle  and  the  frugal 
safely  and  constructively.  It  is  a  habits  which  have  made  possible  the 
source  of  embarrassment  and  dis-  establishment  and  maintenance  of 
comfiture,,  and  frustrates  all  plans  that  home.  Often  the  parents  are 
and  purposes  for  better  living  and  a  too  indulgent  with  children  and 
more  comfortable  existence.  It  permit  them  to  set  up  standards  and 
comes  from  a  craving  for  things  to  to  form  habits  far  beyond  their  pow- 
which  people  are  not  entitled  until  er  and  ability  to  sustain.  The  ex- 
they  have  worked  and  saved  to  pro-  cessive  use  of  the  family  automobile 
vide  such  enjoyment  and  possession,  has  lured  many  a  youth  away  from 
There  is  no  grander  spectacle  in  the  the  path  of  industry  and  duty.  Ex- 
world  than  that  of  a  husband  and  travagant  tastes  in  the  matter  of  food, 
wife  girding  their  loins  for  the  bat-  clothing,  amusements,  and  such 
tie  of  life,  all  barriers  crumbling  be-  other  demands  as  clever  advertising 
fore  them.  To  them  belong  the  promotes,  have  been  allowed  to  de- 
fruits  of  honest  labor  and  persistent  velop  without  regard  for  the  welfare 
effort.  and  security  of  home  and  family. 
Waste  in  any  form  is  an  enemy  to  Frequently,  a  selfish  desire  and  an 
the  individual,  the  home,  and  the  unworthy     ambition    to    outflaunt 
nation.  Brigham  Young  said:  neighbors  and  friends,  regardless  of 
the  means  at  one's  disposal,  are  back 
Let  nothing  go  to  waste.    Never  con-  of  many  ill-advised  and  unnecessary 
sider  that  you  have  bread  enough  around  ..vi^^nrlifnr/=^c 
.        rr  1  -1 J        L  I  oxijenQiLures. 
you   to   sutter  your  children   to   waste   a  '- 
crust  or  a  crumb  of  it.    If  a  man  is  worth  National  thrift  is  a  bulwark  against 
milhons  of  bushels   of  wheat  and  corn,  chaos  and  disintegration.    It  begins 
he  is  not  wealthy  enough  to  suffer  his  ^^  the  homes  of  the  people,  for  no 
servant  2irl  to  sweep  a  single  kernel  of  it  ,•  •         i       ^  ,t         .   -l-t, 
into  the  fire.  Remember  it,  do  not  waste  "^^^0"  ^^"  ^^^^^  ^^^^^^  ^^e  Stability, 
anything,  but  take  care  of  everything.  the  integrity,  the  sanctity,  and  the 
coherence  of  its  family  group.  What- 
Such  was  the  economic  philoso-  ever  perils  the  family,  perils  the  na- 
phy  of  the  great  pioneer  colonizer  tion.    The    laws    of    progress    and 
whose  wisdom  and  leadership  sub-  growth  are  eternal.  The  pioneers  sur- 
dued  deserts,  built  towns  and  cities,  vived  because  they  were  thrifty^  and 
and    established    a    thriving    com-  industrious.  They  developed  the  vir- 
monwealth.    But,  above  all  things,  tue  to  struggle  and  wait  and  to  pos- 
Brigham  Young  was  anxious  to  pre-  sess  their  souls  in  patience.    They 
serve  the  stability    of    the    home,  looked  ahead  and  made  provisions 
Waste  and  extravagance  have  wreck-  for  the  future.  Sometimes  their  ra- 
ed  homes  and  brought  despair  and  tions  were  short  and  their  food  very 
misery  to  many  families.  simple,  but  they  battled  on  against 
Too  many  young  people,  as  thev  \^ant     and     misery,     and     finallv 
assume  the  responsibility  of  home-  (Continued  on  page  550)

Cache  Valley — Part  of  the 
Mormon  Epic 
Caroline  Eyring  Miner 
AN  interesting  chapter  in  the 
stor}^  of  the  colonization  of 
Mormondom  is  the  settle- 
ment of  Cache  Valley.  The  pioneers 
were  a  nature-loving  people,  and,  as 
such,  they  found  a  paradise  in  the 
beautiful  Cache  Valley  of  Northern 
Utah  and  Southern  Idaho.  Letters, 
journals,  and  histories  reveal  that 
here,  indeed,  is  a  veritable  cache  of 
early  Mormon   history. 
This  great  valley— a  giant  finger 
of  Lake  Bonneville— v^as  the  hunt- 
ing ground  for  many  tribes  of  In- 
dians, most  of  them  belonging  to  the 
Shoshone  family,  who  fished  in  the 
clear  streams  and  hunted  in  the 
wooded  canyons.  There  is  reason  to 
believe  that  buffalo  roamed  the  low- 
er valley,  and  that,  in  the  severe 
winter  of  1785,  they  were  killed  off. 
During  the  period  from  1824  to 
1847,  ^^^  valley  was  visited  b}^  trop- 
pers  who  searched  the  rivers  and 
creeks  for  bea\er.  The  vallev  was 
then  called  Willow  Valley,  but  later 
it  came  to  be  known  as  Cache  Val- 
ley because  caches  of  furs  and  food 
were  made  here.  During  this  period, 
such  celebrated  American  scouts  and 
naturalists  as  Jim  Bridger,  Lewis  and 
Clark,  and  Charles  Fremont,  are 
among  the  white  men  who  first  visit- 
ed this  verdant  vallev. 
Captain  Stansbury,  of  the  corps 
of  topographical  engineers  for  the 
United  States  Army,  investigating 
Cache  Valley,  in  1849,  for  the  pos- 
Page  510 
sible  location  of  an  army  post,  thus 
described  it: 
.  .  .covered  with  a  profusion  of  rich  green 
grass  and  adorned  and  diversified  by  num- 
erous clumps  of  willows.  Speckled  trout  of 
large  size  abounded  in  the  streams.  The 
streams  on  the  east  side  take  their  rise  in 
a  heavy  range  running  to  the  north  and 
constituting  the  eastern  Hmit  of  the  valley 
which  has  an  average  width  of  about  ten 
miles.  The  canyons  they  form  before 
leaving  the  mountains  abound  in  timber. 
They  afford  facilities  for  irrigation,  pre- 
senting at  the  same  time  advantageous 
sites  for  the  erection  of  mills.  These  ra- 
vines abound  in  timber  in  quantities  suf- 
ficient for  fuel  and  building  purposes. 
Looking  for  more  grazing  land, 
President  Brigham  Young  and  other 
Church  leaders  established  the 
Church  ranch,  or  farm,  in  1855-56, 
between  the  places  where  Wells- 
ville  and  Logan  were  later  settled. 
Seven  men  and  two  women  spent 
the  first  hard  winter  there.  These 
were  the  first  women  to  reside  in 
Cache  Valley,  and  they  showed  the 
great  fortitude  and  patience  typical 
of  all  Mormon  pioneer  women  un- 
der tr}dng  circumstances.  Sister 
William  A.  Warner  and  Sister  Stol- 
worthy  fed  the  men,  grinding  the 
wheat  in  coffee  mills  and  making 
it  into  gruel.  When  food  ran  out, 
Brother  Dowdle  set  out  on  foot  for 
more.  He  returned  with  one  sack 
of  flour.  Sister  Warner  writes: 
Out  of  my  share  of  flour — one  half 
pound  a  day — I  saved  one  cupful  a  week

CACHE  VALLEY— PART  OF  THE  MORMON  EPIC 
511 
and  it  came  in  handy  when  conditions  be- 
came e\'en  worse.  Sister  Stol worthy's  baby 
was  the  first  to  be  born  in  Cache  Valley. 
The  first  house  in  Cache  Valley  was  also 
built  at  this  ranch  in  August  1855.  Dur- 
ing this  first  winter  there  were  three 
thousand  head  of  cattle  at  the  ranch,  and 
of  the  two  thousand  owned  by  the 
Church  only  four  hundred  twenty  survived 
the  winter  snow  which  was  four  and  one 
half  feet  deep  on  the  level  and  ten  feet 
deep  in  the  canyons. 
To  mention  the  name  of  Peter 
Maughan  is  to  recall  the  real  begin- 
ning of  Cache  \^alley  settlement. 
In  1856,  he  was  chosen  by  President 
Brigham  Young  to  take  a  small 
colony  into  the  valley,  where  he  ar- 
rived September  15,  1856,  with  his 
wife  and  sons,  W.  H.,  and  John  M., 
also  Zial  Riggs,  George  Ryan, 
Francis  Gennel,  and  O.  D.  Thomp- 
son, and  families.  They  settled  at 
what  is  now  Wellsville,  and,  Sep- 
tember 27,  a  child  was  born  to  Mrs. 
Peter  Maughan.  This  child  was  con- 
sidered to  be  the  first  child  born  in 
Cache  Valley  until  the  journal    of 
Sister  Warner  came  to  light.  The 
Maughan  child  was  born  in  a  covered 
wagon  after  the  first  snowfall. 
Because  of  Indian  trouble  and  the 
difficulties  occasioned  by  the  en- 
trance of  Johnston's  armv  into  Utah, 
these  colonists  moved  into  South- 
ern Utah,  but  returned  in  1859.  It 
is  interesting  to  note  that  Sister 
Maughan  mentions  in  her  journal 
that  her  chairs  had  been  scattered 
all  over,  but  that  otherwise  they 
found  things  much  as  they  had  left 
them. 
After  1859,  the  permanent  settle- 
ment of  Cache  \^alley  began  in 
earnest.  In  June  of  that  year,  thirty- 
five  families  moved  to  the  vicinit}' 
of  Logan  and  began  its  settlement. 
Some  of  the  prominent  people 
in  this  enterprise  were  Hezekiah 
Thatcher,  financier;  William  B. 
Preston,  first  bishop;  Ezra  T.  Ben- 
son, colonel  of  the  ''minute  men," 
and  first  stake  president;  and  Edward 
W.  Smith,  the  first  school  teacher. 
Among  the  many  interesting  in- 
1  HE  FIRST  RELIEF  SOCIETY  HOUSE  IN  MENDON,  CACHE  VALLEY