[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Fjeldsted]
THIS  SILENT  BARD 
Evelyn  Fjelsted 
A  rose,  an  affirmation  of 
Life's  wondrous  beauty  and  reward. 
We  hear  its  floral  sermon, 
Pay  tribute  to  this  silent  bard. 
A   miracle  that   tells   of  love. 
In   language   understood  by   all, 
Whose  influence  benign,  so  like 
A  benediction  seems  to  fall. 
A  mystery,  this  vision  fair. 
Could  it  have  strayed  from  worlds  unseen, 
To  be  a  guest  in  gardens  here, 
A  stranger  on  this  mundane  scene? 
And  whence  and  how  it  came,  who  knows? 
A  rose  diffusing  perfume  rare, 
Whose  silent  glory  testifies 
That  God  is  here  and  even'where. 
Heavenly  Harmony 
R^chd  B.  Balhntyne 
"PVlD  you  ever  stop  and  think  how  much  the  heavenly  bodies — the  sun,  moon,  and 
■■--'  stars — are  like  a  family  of  people?  As  they  perform  their  work  so  faithfully  and 
undeviatingly,  they  seem  to  be  giving  a  silent  lesson,  day  after  day,  as  to  how  people 
could  live  and  conduct  their  lives  in  order  to  have  peace  and  harmony  in  their  homes. 
If  we  could  catch  the  lesson  so  beautifully  portiajed  above  us,  it  would  ensure 
happiness  to  the  inmates  of  our  earthly  homes. 
Let  us  call  the  sun  the  father.  He  rises  first  in  the  morning,  looks  over  the 
mountains,  and  sends  a  smile  of  radiance  over  this  beautiful  world  of  ours,  then  mounts 
the  sky  in  power  and  splendor  and,  from  his  high  vantage,  sees  and  touches  ever\'  de- 
tail of  his  responsible  work,  which  is  a  mighty  factor  in  keeping  our  world  productive 
that  Hfe  may  exist  hereon.     In  the  evening,  his  work  finished,  he  retires  to  rest. 
Then  the  moon,  we'll  call  the  mother,  a  dainty,  silver  rim,  appears  and  calls  her 
star  children  out  to  play  and  twinkle.  After  games,  she  retires.  But  each  evening  she 
returns,  stays  a  little  longer,  that  her  influence  and  activity  may  give  added  light 
and  effectiveness  until  she  is  full  and  glorious  in  gold  and  silver  splendor,  soaring  and 
reigning  queen  of  the  night.  Then,  as  she  begins  to  weary,  her  triumphal  beauty  wanes, 
little  by  little,  until  she  retires  into  a  natural  period  of  rest,  away  from  public  gaze. 
The  star  children  are  left  to  Hght  the  traveler's  way  and  do  their  part  in  dispelling 
darkness,  and  to  carry  on  in  shining  loveliness,  for  a  season,  alone. 
Thus,  each  planet  and  each  orb  has  its  opportunity  in  making  this  the  grand  old 
world  it  is. 
The  father's  task  is  much  the  same,  day  after  day,  carrying  on  in  unwavering 
strength.  The  mother's  work  is  more  varied,  but  not  less  important  in  the  plan.  In 
all  nature,  as  in  the  gospel  plan,  harmony  prevails,  giving  each  creation  a  place  and  a 
responsibility. 
Page  531

Sixt^    LJears  J/igo 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponent,  August  i,  and  August  15,  1886 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
THE  EARTH  IS  THE  LORD'S:  The  ways  of  God  are  not  as  the  ways  of  man, 
nor  his  purposes  to  be  fathomed  by  the  small  understanding  of  man.  He  created  this 
earth  and  placed  his  children  upon  it  for  a  purpose — a  wise  and  glorious  purpose — to 
test  them,  to  prove  which  of  them  would  seek  after  truth  and  righteousness  ...  for 
of  such  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  — L.  L.  Dalton 
*  *     *     ♦ 
Although  her  mortal  life  was  short 
And  much  of  pain  she  knew, 
In  patience  she  her  sufferings  bore 
And  still  was  firm  and  true. 
The  love  of  God  within  her  heart 
Made  all  her  duties  light, 
Now  in  far  happier  scenes  she  dwells. 
And  walks  in  robes  of  white. 
— Hannah  Cornaby 
(Written  in  honor  of  Elizabeth  F.  Hanson  who  died  June  16,  1886,  at  the 
age  of  twenty-one.  She  was  a  wife,  a  mother,  and  first  counselor  in  the  Young 
Ladies'  Association  of  Spanish  Fork,  Utah.) 
«     *     *     « 
OGDEN  CITY:  Our  conference  was  held  in  the  Ogden  Tabernacle,  June  20, 
1886  .  .  .  conducted  by  our  beloved  President,  Jane  S.. Richards,  with  her  counselors, 
Hattie  C.  Brown  and  Sarah  I.  Herrick.  We  had  the  company  of  apostle  F.  D. 
Richards,  President  L.  W.  Shurtliff  and  wife.  President  Eliza  R.  S.  Smith  .... 
After  the  usual  exercises  of  singing  and  prayer,  reading  of  minutes,  etc..  President  Jane 
S.  Richards  made  a  few  opening  remarks,  expressing  her  great  joy  in  again  meeting 
with  her  beloved  brethren  and  sisters  ....  President  Eliza  R.  S.  Smith  gave  us,  as 
usual,  much  wise  instruction  in  regard  to  the  sublime  principles  of  our  religion  .... 
She  felt  sorry  and  grieved  to  hear  of  the  disasters  and  trouble  that  were  befalhng  many 
places  in  the  world  ....  Touched  upon  character,  conscience,  the  work  for  our  dead, 
the  law  and  order  of  tithing  .  .  .  and  many  other  things,  explaining  each  subject  in  a 
beautiful  and  acceptable  manner  ....  All  present  felt  that  the  spirit  of  the  Lord 
rested  upon  her  ....  Long  may  she  live  to  be  a  shining  light  among  the  saints  of 
God.  — Monta  Harris,  Secretary  Ogden  ReHef  Society 
*  *     *     « 
OLD  FOLKS  EXCURSION,  1886:  On  the  22nd  of  July  the  Old  Folks  Ex- 
cursion, which,  by  the  way,  has  come  to  be  a  regular  yearly  occurrence,  went  to  Ameri- 
can Fork.  .  .  .  The  committee,  of  whom  Elder  C.  R.  Savage  is  now  acting  chairman 
.  .  .  were  in  glorious  spirits,  and  determined  the  old  folks  should  have  a  gala  day.  .  .  . 
All  over  ninety  wore  a  badge  of  white  ribbon,  over  eighty  wore  blue,  and  over  seventy, 
red.  .  .  .  The  exercises  at  the  grove  were  very  brief,  but  pointed  and  spirited.  .  .  . 
President  Angus  M.  Cannon  made  a  very  happy  patriotic  speech,  one  that  every  good 
and  loyal  citizen  might  respond  to  from  his  innermost  soul.  ...  A.  A.  Lyne,  the 
veteran  actor,  .  .  .  recited  a  scene  from  "Wilham  Tell,"  with  a  great  deal  of  the 
old  fire  and  zeal  in  his  manner. 
Page  532

Woman's  Sphere 
Romana  W.  Cannon 
lyriSS  CHARLOTTE  KNIGHT, 
former  Utahn,  was  one  of  the 
reporters  among  the  distinguished 
group  who,  from  circhng  giant
