[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pickering]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Idaho, Falls Seventh Ward ROM North Idaho Falls Stake, under the direction of President May W. Andrus, the activities of the Idaho Falls Seventh Ward are reported by the secretary, Cleon T. Robertson: "On May 7, 1946, the officers and supervisors of the ward Relief Society gave a dinner in honor of the visiting teachers who had achieved 100 per cent in their activities, The girls who served at this dinner were daughters of the visiting teachers: LaVern Lingren, Carol Weeks, Martha Keller, Glendora Thompson. A special guest was Sister Ethel Myles, visiting teachers' leader of the stake board. Sister Blen Frei gave a reading and Sister Lois Steel sang a solo, accompanied by Elaine Merrill at the piano. Velma Hurley gave the theology lesson. ''Beautiful features of the entertainment were the centerpieces of red and pink roses given to the Society by A gnes Harding. Small scrolls were made by Sister Cleon Robertson, upon which were written scripts from the book Food For Thought. Speakers were Hazel Wright, Reva Mickelsen, and our president, Vella Laird. Our Magazine representative, Lucille Johnson, informed us that we have 100 per cent subscriptions in the visiting teachers' group."TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), FIVE LIVING RELIEF Standing, left to tight: Delilah R. Thelma F. Adamson. 549 er of the stake board. Sister Blen Frei gave a reading and Sister Lois Steel sang a solo, accompanied by Elaine Merrill at the piano. Velma Hurley gave the theology lesson. "Beautiful features of the entertainment were the centerpieces of red and pink roses given to the Society by Agnes Harding. Small scrolls were made by Sister Cleon Robertson, upon which were written scripts from the book Food For Thought. Speakers were Hazel Wright, Reva Mickelsen, and our President, Vella Laird. Our Magazine representative, Lucille Johnson, informed us that we have 100 per cent subscriptions in the visiting teachers' group."
PLEASANT GROVE THIRD WARD SOCIETY PRESIDENTS
Seated, left: Minnie L. Anderson; right, Margaret A. Holdaway, Fugal; Lydia A. Hilton, present president; Sister Adeline R. Nelson, the first president, passed away in 1941 at the age of eighty-one. Photograph submitted by Geneve J. Dalton, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society 
  AUGUST 1946