[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Irrigation Leitner]
They  afford  facilities  for  irrigation,  pre- 
senting at  the  same  time  advantageous 
sites  for  the  erection  of  mills.  These  ra- 
vines abound  in  timber  in  quantities  suf- 
ficient for  fuel  and  building  purposes. 
Looking  for  more  grazing  land, 
President  Brigham  Young  and  other 
Church  leaders  established  the 
Church  ranch,  or  farm,  in  1855-56, 
between  the  places  where  Wells- 
ville  and  Logan  were  later  settled. 
Seven  men  and  two  women  spent 
the  first  hard  winter  there.  These 
were  the  first  women  to  reside  in 
Cache  Valley,  and  they  showed  the 
great  fortitude  and  patience  typical 
of  all  Mormon  pioneer  women  un- 
der tr}dng  circumstances.  Sister 
William  A.  Warner  and  Sister  Stol- 
worthy  fed  the  men,  grinding  the 
wheat  in  coffee  mills  and  making 
it  into  gruel.  When  food  ran  out, 
Brother  Dowdle  set  out  on  foot  for 
more.  He  returned  with  one  sack 
of  flour.  Sister  Warner  writes: 
Out  of  my  share  of  flour — one  half 
pound  a  day — I  saved  one  cupful  a  week

CACHE  VALLEY— PART  OF  THE  MORMON  EPIC 
511 
and  it  came  in  handy  when  conditions  be- 
came e\'en  worse.  Sister  Stol worthy's  baby 
was  the  first  to  be  born  in  Cache  Valley. 
The  first  house  in  Cache  Valley  was  also 
built  at  this  ranch  in  August  1855.  Dur- 
ing this  first  winter  there  were  three 
thousand  head  of  cattle  at  the  ranch,  and 
of  the  two  thousand  owned  by  the 
Church  only  four  hundred  twenty  survived 
the  winter  snow  which  was  four  and  one 
half  feet  deep  on  the  level  and  ten  feet 
deep  in  the  canyons. 
To  mention  the  name  of  Peter 
Maughan  is  to  recall  the  real  begin- 
ning of  Cache  \^alley  settlement. 
In  1856,  he  was  chosen  by  President 
Brigham  Young  to  take  a  small 
colony  into  the  valley,  where  he  ar- 
rived September  15,  1856,  with  his 
wife  and  sons,  W.  H.,  and  John  M., 
also  Zial  Riggs,  George  Ryan, 
Francis  Gennel,  and  O.  D.  Thomp- 
son, and  families.  They  settled  at 
what  is  now  Wellsville,  and,  Sep- 
tember 27,  a  child  was  born  to  Mrs. 
Peter  Maughan.  This  child  was  con- 
sidered to  be  the  first  child  born  in 
Cache  Valley  until  the  journal    of 
Sister  Warner  came  to  light.  The 
Maughan  child  was  born  in  a  covered 
wagon  after  the  first  snowfall. 
Because  of  Indian  trouble  and  the 
difficulties  occasioned  by  the  en- 
trance of  Johnston's  armv  into  Utah, 
these  colonists  moved  into  South- 
ern Utah,  but  returned  in  1859.  It 
is  interesting  to  note  that  Sister 
Maughan  mentions  in  her  journal 
that  her  chairs  had  been  scattered 
all  over,  but  that  otherwise  they 
found  things  much  as  they  had  left 
them. 
After  1859,  the  permanent  settle- 
ment of  Cache  \^alley  began  in 
earnest.  In  June  of  that  year,  thirty- 
five  families  moved  to  the  vicinit}' 
of  Logan  and  began  its  settlement. 
Some  of  the  prominent  people 
in  this  enterprise  were  Hezekiah 
Thatcher,  financier;  William  B. 
Preston,  first  bishop;  Ezra  T.  Ben- 
son, colonel  of  the  ''minute  men," 
and  first  stake  president;  and  Edward 
W.  Smith,  the  first  school  teacher. 
Among  the  many  interesting  in- 
1  HE  FIRST  RELIEF  SOCIETY  HOUSE  IN  MENDON,  CACHE  VALLEY

512 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1946 
PETER  MAUGHAN 
cidents  connected  with  early  Logan 
history,  it  is  worth  mentioning  that 
on  March  7,  1870,  the  third  election 
was  held,  and  265  votes  were  cast, 
fifty  bv  women.  This  is  indicative 
of  the  important  part  women  have 
placed  in  Mormondom.  The  fact 
that  Logan  ver}-  early  prohibited  the 
sale  of  liquor  is  also  evidence  of  the 
high  t\"pe  of  citizenship  there. 
A POSTLE  WILFORD  WOOD- 
RUFF visited  Logan,  in  1863, 
witli  President  Brigliam  Young,  and, 
noticing  the  people  lined  up  on 
either  side  of  the  street  to  welcome 
them,  was  inspired  to  prophesy  that 
a  temple  would  be  built  in  Logan. 
President  Young  said  the  prophecv 
would  be  fulfilled.  Its  fulfillment 
was  begun  May  18,  1877,  when 
President  Young  and  his  counselors 
came  to  Logan  to  break  ground  for 
the  temple.  The  stately  edifice  was 
dedicated  May  17,  1884,  by  Presi- 
dent John  Taylor.  The  $608,000 
structure  was  a  monument  to  the 
sacrifice  and  co-operation  of  the  pio- 
neers of  this  section  who,  during  the 
same  period,  built  the  tabernacle, 
which  still  stands  on  the  beautiful 
square  in  the  heart  of  the  cit}^ 
Logan  has  always  been  an  out- 
standing educational  and  recreation- 
al center,  and,  even  in  this  brief  ar- 
ticle, we  must  mention  the  establish- 
ment of  Brigham  Young  College  in 
1877,  ^^^^  t^^^  Utah  State  Agricultur- 
al College,  in  1890.  Both  schools  be- 
gan inauspiciously  but  grew  rapidly 
and  have  done  much  good  in  Cache 
X^alley. 
In  1858,  the  colony  of  Mendon 
was  founded,  and  it  is  interesting  to 
read  how,  in  1874,  Mendon  reported 
that  its  people  could  not  go  into  the 
United  Order  until  their  bishop, 
Henry  Hughes,  returned  from  his 
mission.  Then  apostle  Snow  very 
quickly  and  effectively  asked  the 
question  if  the  kingdom  of  God  had 
to  stop  in  Mendon  because  Bishop 
Hughes  was  on  a  mission.  This  set- 
tled the  matter,  and  the  Order  was  at 
once  established,  one  third  of  the 
people  being  in  the  Order  and  two- 
thirds  out.  The  people  who  joined 
the  Order  put  in  all  they  had,  and  all 
were  paid  according  to  the  days  they 
worked,  no  matter  what  they  had 
contributed. 
Richmond  w^as  established  in 
1859,  with  Brother  Bair  and  others 
in  charge.  Also,  in  the  same  year, 
Smithfield  was  settled,  with  John 
G.  Smith  as  the  first  bishop.  The 
town  was  named  in  his  honor. 
In  i860,  Hyrum  was  settled,  be- 
ing named  Hyrum  because  it  was  in