[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
years  ago  the  Greek,  Socrates,  told 
his  students  they  would  be  happier 
if  they  would  study  the  problems 
of  the  home  and  such  fundamental 
things  as  thrift,  industry,  and  the 
wise  management  of  the  family  in- 
come. 
Surely,  a  measure  of  financial  in- 
dependence is  as  precious  and  im- 
portant to  men  and  women  as  po- 
litical independence.  It  is  worth 
all  the  striving  and  sacrifice  neces- 
sary for  its  achievement.  Much  of 
the  unhappiness  in  the  world  is  due 
to  poor  economics,  selfish  pleasures, 
and  thoughtless  indulgences.  An 
easy,  carefree  life,  without  purpose 
and  plan,  will  undermine  character 
and  weaken  the  moral  fiber  of  men 
and  women. 
It  has  been  said  that  Charles 
Dickens  regarded  the  parable  of  the 
prodigal  son  as  the  most  beautiful 
story  in  all  literature.  It  is  not  diffi 
cult  to  picture  the  wayward  son  re- 
turning to  his  home,  disillusioned 
and  thoroughly  repentant.  He  had 
"wasted  his  substance  with  riotous 
living."  Worse  still,  he  had  wasted 
his  life  and  dissipated  his  powers. 
Therein  lay  the  tragedy  of  a  spend- 
thrift's life.  Haphazard  use  of  time, 
money,  and  energ}'  means  a  poor 
return  and  is  devoid  of  satisfaction. 
Devotion  to  a  purposeful  plan  calls 
for  strength  and  determination,  and 
lays  the  foundation  for  a  well-order- 
ed, independent  life. 
A  thrift}'  person  looks  ahead;  he 
practices  self  control  and  prepares 
for  emergencies  that  may  arise.  He 
faces  life  with  a  positi\e,  self-reliant 
attitude  and  seeks  to  fit  himself  for 
an  opportunit}'  when  it  comes. 
Abraham  Lincoln's  life  began  in 
a  wretched  home  amid  poverty  and 
discouragements.  By  sheer  determi- 
nation and  a  resolute  spirit,  he 
overcame,  what  appeared  to  be,  an 
insurmountable  handicap.  He  was 
motivated  always  by  a  s^ong  desire 
to  go  forward  and  to  improve  his 
condition.  All  through  his  life  he 
exemplified  the  principles  of  thrift 
and  hard  work,  preparing  carefully 
and  thoughtfully  for  future  responsi- 
bilities.   In    doing    so.    he    gained 
Page  507