[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 27 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes From the Field: General Activities and Special Programs (Continued) General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]
Smithfield  was  settled,  with  John 
G.  Smith  as  the  first  bishop.  The 
town  was  named  in  his  honor. 
In  i860,  Hyrum  was  settled,  be- 
ing named  Hyrum  because  it  was  in

CACHE  VALLEY— PART  OF  THE  MORMON  EPIC 
513 
a  direct  line  with  a  proposed  settle- 
ment at  the  Church  farm  which  was 
to  have  been  named  Joseph.  This 
settlement  did  not  materialize.  Also, 
in  this  same  year,  Millville  and  Hyde 
Park  were  established.  Clarkston 
was  settled  in  1864,  and  is  the  burial 
place  of  Martin  Harris  who  died  in 
1875.  In  1869,  Newton  was  settled, 
and,  in  1870,  Lewiston  was  establish- 
ed. Severe  frosts  killed  the  grain  in 
July  for  three  successive  years,  and 
very  much  discouraged  the  settlers 
in  Lewiston.  However,  they  persisted 
and  now  have  a  rich,  thriving  com- 
munity. Benson  was  begun  in  1871, 
Trenton  in  1872,  and  College  Ward 
in  1879. 
Franklin,  the  most  northerly  of 
the  Cache  Valley  settlements,  was 
begun  in  the  spring  of  i860.  It  holds 
the  distinction  of  being  the  first 
permanent  settlement  in  Idaho,  but, 
in  the  begining,  was  considered  to 
be  in  Utah  territor}^  In  1865,  Wes- 
ton was  established,  the  first  settle- 
ment in  Cache  Valley  on  the  west 
side  of  Bear  River.  In  1877,  Preston 
was  settled  at  the  end  of  the  Utah 
Northern  railroad,  and  it  soon  be- 
came the  leading  town  in  northern 
Cache  Valley. 
The  settlement  of  Cache  Valley 
was  very  rapid,  especially  during  the 
year  i860.  As  this  valley  had  been 
the  hunting  ground  of  various  In- 
dian tribes,  they  moved  through  the 
settlements  as  the  seasons  changed 
and  caused  a  good  deal  of  trouble. 
The  saints  tried  to  handle  their 
problem  in  several  ways.  First, 
they  tried  to  follow  the  advice  of 
President  Brigham  Young  by  at- 
tempting to  feed  rather  than  to  fight 
the  Indians.  At  the  same  time  they 
built  their  communities  in  the  form 
of  forts  for  protection.  Also,  they 
maintained  armed  "minute  men" 
under  Colonel  Ezra  T.  Benson.  In 
spite  of  all  these  precautions,  a  few 
children  were  stolen,  and  some  of 
the  settlers  lost  their  lives.  One  of 
the  bloodiest  engagements  between 
the  white  men  and  the  Indians  took 
place  at  Battle  Creek,  near  Franklin. 
Hundreds  of  Indians  and  many  of 
General  Connor's  men  were  killed. 
The  following  account  of  one 
settlement  was  typical  of  all: 
During  the  first  season  they  built  for 
themselves  homes  (usually  log  with  sod 
roofs  and  in  fort  formation),  planted  and 
harvested  crops  of  grain  and  vegetables, 
constructed  roads  into  the  canyons  so  they 
could  get  what  timber  and  firewood  they 
needed,  dug  a  small  irrigation  canal,  and 
erected  a  log  school  and  meeting  house. 
Courtesy  Torgeson   Studio,  Logan,   Utah 
THE  LOGAN  TABERNACLE

514 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1946 
Very  short!}   there  followed  the  estab-  God  and  in  their  leaders  and  their 
lishment  of  co-operative    industries    and  leJigion,  made  i  tpossible  to  estab- 
reereational  facihties.  ^.^j^    ^j^^   ^^j^^.^^    .^    ^^^^^^  y^^^^^^ 
Only  whole-hearted   co-operation  as  well  as  in  all  other  parts  of  Mor- 
.md   hard   work,   fired   by   faith   in  niondom. 
Photoqraph   by   R.   M.    Brown 
THE  LOGAN  TEMPLE  IN  SPRING 
SELF-CONFIDENCE 
Katherine  Fernehus  Lnisen 
Belief    in    self! — how    humble    seems    the    goal; 
How  hard  the  full  attainment  to  the  soul!

Pioneer  Stories  and  Incidents 
THE  INDIANS  OF  UTAH  AND  THE  BLACK  HAWK  WAR 
President  Amy  Biown  Lyman 
[This  story  is  the  second  in  a  series  of  true  pioneer  incidents  to  be  pubhshed 
hy  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  in  honor  of  the  1947  Utah  Centennial  celebration. 
—Ed.] 
AMONG  the  Indian  tribes  en- 
countered by  the  pioneers  in 
Utah  and  the  adjoining  areas 
were  the  Utes,  the  Piutes,  and  the 
Bannocks— all  belonging  to  the  Sho- 
shone family.  It  was  the  policy  of 
the  pioneers  to  treat  these  Indians 
justly  and  fairly  and  to  try  to  teach 
them  the  arts  of  civilization.  Accord- 
ing to  the  advice  of  Brigham  Young, 
they  were  to  be  fed  rather  than  to 
be  fought.  He  warned  against  taking 
advantage  of  them  in  trade  or  other- 
wise, or  even  giving  them  offense. 
While  the  Indians  seemed  at 
times  to  appreciate  this  friendly  atti- 
tude, and  while  some  of  their  chiefs 
proved  to  be  faithful  friends,  still, 
on  the  whole,  in  those  early  days  the 
Indians  were  suspicious  of  the  white 
man  and  revengeful  as  well.  As  they 
saw  their  lands  taken  from  them, 
their  freedom  to  roam  and  camp  at 
will  curtailed,  and  as  plans  of  the 
Government  to  segregate  them  on 
reservations  developed,  they  were 
filled  with  consternation,  and  they 
naturally  felt  that  the  white  men 
were  their  enemies.  And,  to  an  In- 
dian, it  was  no  sin  to  steal  from  an 
enemy,  or  even  to  take  the  life  of 
an  enemy. 
Misunderstandings,  therefore  con- 
stantly arose,  and,  because  of 
repeated  hostilities  and  aggressions, 
and  the  frequent  and  wanton    at- 
tacks on  the  white  settlers,  it  was 
necessary  for  the  latter  not  only  to 
defend  themselves,  but  in  some  in- 
stances to  take  the  offensive.  As  a 
result,  there  were,  for  a  number  of 
years,  skirmishes  and  even  wars. 
The  most  serious  of  these  con- 
flicts w^as  the  Black  Hawk  War,  so 
called  because  Chief  Black  Hawk 
was  the  leader  of  hostilities.  It  be- 
gan in  Sanpete  County  in  1865,  and 
in\'olved  Sevier  County  as  well,  last- 
ing about  three  years.  It  was  a  des- 
perate struggle  and  the  white  settiers 
in  these  counties  were  in  constant 
danger. 
One  of  the  saddest  incidents  of 
this  war  was  that  connected  with  the 
Kuhre  family  of  Ephraim.  The 
writer  was  fortunate  in  hearing  this 
stOT)'  from  the  lips  of  William  D. 
Kuhre  himself,  for  many  years  the 
bishop  of  the  Sandv  Ward,  where 
he  is  todav  greatlv  loved  and  respect- 
ed. 
Brother  and  Sister  Martin  P. 
Kuhre,  were  converts  to  the 
Church  from  Denmark,  and  up- 
on their  arrival  in  Utah,  in  1862, 
they  settled  in  Ephraim,  Sanpete 
County,  where  they  engaged  in 
farming.  On  an  October  day  in  1865, 
they  went  out  to  their  field  on  the 
edge  of  town  to  har\^est  their  po- 
tatoes. With  them  were  their  son 
William,  age  two  years,  Elizabeth 
Page  515