[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: And What of Frontispiece]

Haphazard use of time, money, and energy means a poor return and is devoid of satisfaction.
Devotion to a purposeful plan calls for strength and determination, and lays the foundation for a well-ordered, independent life. A thrifty person looks ahead; he practices self control and prepares for emergencies that may arise. He faces life with a positive, self-reliant attitude and seeks to fit himself for an opportunity when it comes. Abraham Lincoln's life began in a wretched home amid poverty and discouragements. By sheer determination and a resolute spirit, he overcame, what appeared to be, an insurmountable handicap. He was motivated always by a strong desire to go forward and to improve his condition. All through his life he exemplified the principles of thrift and hard work, preparing carefully and thoughtfully for future responsibilities. In doing so, he gained Page 507 508 strength and wisdom, and thus fortified himself to withstand the forces which were conspiring against him.
Nowhere is thrift more important than in the home.
Nowhere are the consequences of extravagance and waste more destructive of human happiness. Ordinarily, the proper management of a home is a full-time job. It calls for wisdom, determination, and __ perseverance. The mother who neglects the home to augment the family income or to engage in futile amusements and social pastimes, frequently does so at a great cost and a sacrifice of family solidarity. It is estimated that seventy- -five per cent of the family income is spent either directly or indirectly by the housewife.
This expenditure covers items which are essential to the happiness and well-being of the entire family. Any plan that will be helpful in solving the domestic problem of income and outgo is worthy of careful thinking and thorough consideration. To devise and to put into successful operation such a plan offers a challenge to the wisest and most businesslike household. The prudent and conscientious homemaker will welcome any suggestion that will strengthen the family economics. A budget is a financial plan by which the spending and investment of money is controlled. Its purpose is to avoid loose, thoughtless, and wasteful methods. It deals with such items as food, clothing, shelter, doctor bills, amusement, charity, insurance, savings, contributions, and many others that come up for consideration in a family. Adherence
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1946 to a budget probably means a greater effort, a more frugal fare, and a severe discipline; but it also means a sense of security and worthiness, a conservation of resources, and a step towards a prosperous and productive life, and, certainly, a step away from vice, luxury, and ostentation. Calvin Coolidge, who had a reputation for frugality and thrift, speaking to a gathering of newspapermen, made the following statement: Extravagance lengthens the hours and diminishes the rewards of labor. I favor the policy of economy, not because I wish to save money, but because I wish to save people.
Every dollar that we carelessly waste means that their life will be so much the more meager.
Every dollar that we prudently save means that their life will be so much the more abundant. Thrift, in its broadest sense, consists of the efficient and productive direction of one's energies. It enters into every field of honorable endeavor. The artist who paints a picture employs thrifty habits, for he builds upon something he has already achieved. The housewife who patiently and methodically adds comfort and attractiveness to the home practices thrift. So does the farmer who plants, cultivates, fertilizes, and increases the productivity of his fields.
There is no progress without thrift. It is the cornerstone of our entire industrial life. The old-fashioned economic virtues are as sound today as they were when the pioneers laid the foundations of all we have and are.