[Fisher Towers by Celia Luce]

Fisher Towers are about twentyfive miles up the river from the Moab bridge over the Colorado River in Eastern Utah. The road winds along the edge of the river with massive cliffs pushing in from both sides, and the great river and the tiny road pressed close together between them. At last the cliffs fall back and the road winds through Professor Valley, revealing towering figures grouped together around even taller monoliths, which seem to be lecturing to the audience of stone.
Side roads take off once in a while toward the distant high, blue crags of the LaSal Mountains.
Then comes the road to Fisher Towers. It climbs for about a mile to an area of broken cliffs, and the first close view of the deep, narrow towerlike pinnacles.
Here the road ends. The road has to end here, for the land ahead is so broken and twisted that even a foot trail was difficult to make.  We followed the trail and were amazed as we went arcund the first ledge.
Ahead was a semicircular area where great cliffs climbed toward the sky. The cliffs were almost straight up and down, yet delicately carved like a great pattern of crinkle crepe cloth.
Deep red clay had washed down over the monuments in a tapestry effect, creating a thousand patterns. The trail follows the base of the great straight cliffs, going around the edge of the circular valley and on to the next circular valley. The first seems beautiful until you see the second, and it seems the most magnificent there could be until you see the third, and so it is until the end of the trail. The tops of the cliffs are pointed and spired like the tops of great Gothic cathedrals, and again they change pattern with each change of view. One wall looks as high as a twenty-story building and narrows to about ten feet in thickness as it juts out to form the partition between two circular valleys. The _ great cliffs keep their crinkle crepe and tapestry pattern, though they change in form at every step. And the sky behind them turns deep blue in contrast with the deep red of the cliffs. It is a blue you see only when red cliffs stand out against the sky. HE view below is as interesting as the view above. At the trail level there is a sharp change, and the circular valleys are filled with FISHER TOWERS Willard Luce
517 FISHER TOWERS The slab at the left is ten feet wide at one end and not much wider in its entire length—the height of a twenty-story building. Strange, rounded, goblin shapes. Thin, long tongues of land reach out over the weird rounded forms in places, with the edges of these tongues of land eroded into rounded toadstool shapes, dropping away into canyons filled with more round, red forms.
Figures and silhouettes are everywhere. A Mexican sleeps under a wide sombrero; a pioneer mother has children clinging to her fluted hoop skirt. A Buddha sits in solemn contemplation next to a goblin face. A circle of braves writhe im a war dance around a frozen stone fire. A few more steps, and the change of viewpoint changes them all into other forms. And so it is as the trail goes on and on, gradually up and up.
Then as you come back down the two miles of trail, the different viewpoint makes it all seem new again.
Beyond the round, red goblin figures is an even more wonderful view of Professor Valley, with the Colorado River small against the bluffs in the distance. In another direction you get occasional glimpses of Onion Creek, which drains the Fisher Tower region.
Even from the distance the creek looks crystal clear, but its waters are poisonous, containing arsenic. Fisher 'Towers were named after a homesteader who settled on Onion Creek. His farm is on up past the narrow twisting gorge which cuts (Continued on page 567) S: txty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1892 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL Nations" WOMAN'S WORK: What is it!
When did it begin; when will it end?
What is the object and ultimate reward? Our minds must travel back to the time when the earth was new and fresh and fair from the hands of its Creator.
When man was placed upon it then woman was quickly by his side, herself the fairest of all and her influence was quickly felt for good or evil; but it was when mother Eve heard the cry. Of her firstborn...
That woman's work really began.—Phebe C. Young WELCOME (Old Folks' Reunion at Payson, June 29, 1892) Ye who bear the silver crown Of a life complete with age, Ye whom wisdom gives renown By her long-life heritage; Old folks everywhere held dear, Filled with years three score and ten, Welcome, yea thrice welcome here, Honored guests of honored men. LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING, 14th Ward: Counselor E.
Stevenson said: "We can't live too near the Lord in these times, the good things we hear should be put into daily practice, we should cease to speak evil of one another, and learn the lesson of charity; be guarded in all our sayings, we know that our lives are full of trials".... President Horne made closing remarks, exhorting the sisters to be faithful and diligent in all their duties, that they might receive the blessings promised. A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY: Spain and America have been exchanging civilities on the occasion of the anniversary of Columbus setting sail from Palos on his voyage of discovery four hundred years ago on the third of August.... The day was celebrated in Spain with appropriate festivities.... The women of America cannot be too mindful of what they owe to that noble Queen, who so generously aided in the enterprise which has given to us... "this choice land above all other lands." It would seem as though the women of America ought to do something magnificently permanent to perpetuate the memory of this singularly estimable and heroic Queen.... But for Isabella's personality in the adventurous enterprise of Columbus he could never have set sail from Spain.... A woman's courage inspired Columbus to do and dare, all honor to Isabella—Editorial OBSERVATION: Strictly, no two persons can see the same thing in the same way, for it can never happen that two persons have precisely the same groups of ideas relating to any subject.
These depend on our past experience, on our education, on the belief of our times, on our various sects or parties, on our pet theories, our interests, and our desires. Did we but bear this in mind how many quarrels and disputes might be saved. How modest we should be in condemning, how careful in counseling.—Selected  MBS. ANNE C. MILNE, Utah's oldest citizen, at 103 years, was crowned queen of the Old Folks Day celebration June 25, at Liberty Park, Salt Lake City. RS. RUTH MAY FOX, former "president of the Young Wom- ~en's Mutual Improvement Association, now ninety-eight years old, requested to write a song for the June conference, revised one that she had written two years ago, "In Triumph We Shall Sing." Professor Crawford Gates composed the music. T the biennial convention of the National Federation of Business and Professional ~ Women's Clubs, Inc., three women correspondents were presented by Judge Sarah T. Hughes, federation president, with a bronze medal and plaque, each bearing the inscription "Distinguished Service Award." One was Salt Lake's own Charlotte Knight, daughter of Mrs. Raymond S. Knight, correspondent for Collier's. The others were May Craig, representing a chain of New England papers, and Marguerite Higgins, of the New York Herald Tnbune. JN admitting girls to Vassar, one of the oldest and best-known colleges for women in the United Ramona W. Cannon
States, all students accept work duty, turn about, such as distributing clean linen, setting tables, drying silverware, serving at message centers, acting as inspectors.
This system makes possible a lower tuition. Freshman girls choose their roommates and also their rooms by lot. Some new dormitories are being built for co-operative living, housing, marketing, and meal preparation. For the first time in its history Vassar has a woman president, competent, charming
Miss Sarah Blanding.
D R. FRANCES ELLIOTT
CLARK, now of Murray, Utah, ninety-two years old, is credited with being the first person to develop the use of recorded music in the public schools. She suggested a music-appreciation program for schools in 1911, and from then until 1937 (when she moved to Utah) was director of R.C.A. Victor's national department of music education. She is the only surviving member of the committee that founded the National Federation of Music Clubs in 1873 in Chicago.
"POR the first time in the 113 years' existence of the Connecticut State Board of Education, a woman, Mrs. William A. Hutton, has been elected chairman.
Page 519

EDITORIAL
VOL 39
AUGUST 1952
NO. 8
[Present LQay lleed for ll urses
As there is nothing more productive of happiness than good health, nothing more uncertain than its possession, there can be no study pursued to better advantage than that which teaches how best to preserve and increase its properties. There is no calling of greater importance, or more becoming to a woman, old or young, than that of being a good nurse, since accidents will happen and sickness must occur while mortality lasts.
HPHUS was introduced an editorial in the Woman's Exponent, volume 2, June 1873, in which was set forth the great need for trained nurses in that early period in Utah, as well as the responsibility of Relief Society to encourage women to avail themselves of the existing nurse training opportunities.
Throughout its history, Relief
Society has accepted, as an important aspect of its program of caring for the sick, the encouragement and recruitment of women for enrollment in nurse training classes. For a period of more than forty years, the society itself continuously sponsored nurse training classes, and at various periods of special need it has conducted intensive recruitment programs. While it places high value upon bedside nursing care given by faithful Relief Society women whose ministrations have been characterized by a spirit of loving service, great native ability, and nursing aptitude, it has always recognized the values accruing to the patient as well as to the nurse from training in this important field of service.
Today throughout the nation there exists an acute shortage of Page 520 trained nurses, both practical and registered. The Advertising Council for the Committee on Careers in Nursing has this to say:
Hospitals in almost every community are faced with a shortage of candidates for nursing, a need to maintain rigid standards of nursing care, and more demands upon their facilities. . . . While the total number of nurses has almost doubled since 1941, we must compare the increased demands for nursing care during the same period. Hospital admissions have almost doubled, births in hospitals more than tripled, and out-patient visitors nearly doubled.
This, together with the steadily increasing numbers of hospitals, the expanding health services of all kinds, the constantly increasing number of large urban communities with the specialized nursing needs, the drain upon our reservoir of nurses brought about by the critical and tragic conditions incident to war, all cry out for more trained nurses.
The seriousness of the situation causes us as Relief Society women, concerned with the care of the sick, to once more awaken to our responsibility to encourage women with natural qualifications, integrity of character, high moral standards,

EDITORIAL
521 and other eligibility requirements to enter training classes that will prepare them for one of the most dignified, needed, useful and satisfying careers for women— the nursing career.
Many communities have schools offering nurse training, both practical and registered. Our own Brigham Young University plans to open a school of nursing this fall where women may prepare themselves as registered nurses. (See article by President Ernest L. Wilkinson, page 499.)
Treatment of the sick has undergone tremendous changes in recent years. It demands ever-increasing numbers of women trained in meeting the exacting requirements of hospital life and sickroom ministrations. The training investments pay high dividends in benefits to humanity and personal rewards.
Relief Society officers and members, always concerned with the care of the sick, should acquaint themselves with the courses offered for both practical and registered nurse training in their own or nearby communities. (This information may be obtained through your state bo ard of health.) Relief Society women everywhere might well encourage eligible women to enter this greatly needed humanitarian field of service. = fy Seas) Ay cay Dorothy J. Roberts You coaxed a beauty from the plain, drab loam, From the brown bulb buried near your valley home. You nurtured beauty to a flaming sheaf, Its coral guarded by a sword-sharp leaf. You fashioned beauty on a tall stem and thin To answer a deep, urgent cry within.
Beauty was the glowing counterpart Of a queenly loveliness within your heart.
Beauty was your bread, the succor for your need, And your call was answered in a flower seed; You wakened beauty with a sharpened hoe And knew the rapture that creators know.
Somewhere within, a dream 'of beauty dwelt. You strove to 'realize it as you knelt Above your garden through the sun-hot hours And traced its image in a bed of flowers.