[The Place of Brigham Young University in Church Education by Ernest L. Wilkinson]
The  Place  of  Brigham  Young 
University  in  Church  Education 
Dr.  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 
President,  Brigham  Young  University 
LET  us  look  at  a  day  in  the  life  English,  then  a  class  in  American 
of   Ann,    a    typical    Brigham  History.     Ann's    teachers    are    all 
Young  University  student.  members  of  the  Church  and  often 
Ann  lives  in  a  home  at  the  edge  refer  to  Church  doctrine  in  their 
of  the  campus,  which  is  rented  by  lectures. 
the  university  to  six  girls.     Today  In  history  she  is  taught  that  the 
she  arises  at  6  a.m.,  for  she  has  a  American  Constitution  was  divinely 
class  at  7:45,  and  it  is  her  turn  to  inspired.    She  is  impressed— she  had 
prepare    breakfast    for    the    other  been    told    that    before— but    the 
girls.    Yesterday  she  helped  do  the  fact  that  the  statement  is  made  by 
shopping  at  the  local  market.    The  one  holding  a  Doctor  of  Philosophy 
girls  do  all  of  their  own  meal  plan-  degree  impresses  her  anew, 
ning,    cooking,   and   housekeeping,  It  is  Tuesday,  so  she  spends  the 
practices   which,   along  with   early  third  period  in  the  great  new  Field 
rising,  are  encouraged  by  the  uni-  House  in  devotional  exercises.  They 
versity,  because  they  are  good  train-  are  held  in  the  Field  House  because 
ing  for  future  homemakers.    Some  nearly  four  thousand   students  at- 
classes  actually  begin  at  6:40  a.m.  tend.    They  assemble  once  a  week 
Breakfast  is  soon  ready— orange  to  worship  their  Creator.  The  meet- 
juice,  eggs,  bacon,  toast,  and  milk,  ing  is  opened  with  prayer,  and  the 
but  no  coffee.  Ann  calls  the  other  massed  choruses  of  the  university, 
girls  from  their  dressing  and  early  led  by  one  of  the  music  faculty, 
study,  and  as  all  are  assembled  they  sing  a  Latter-day  Saint  hymn.  A 
kneel  at  their  places  and  conduct  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
family  prayer.  Twelve    Apostles    is    the    speaker. 
Prayer  plays  a  great  part  in  the  (Next  year  it  is  planned  to  have 
lives  of  all  these  girls,  for  they  are  every  member  of  the  General  Au- 
religious.  In  fact,  ninety-seven  per  thorities  address  the  student  body 
cent  of  the  student  body  of  the  sometime  during  the  year.) 
university  are  members  of  The  After  devotional,  Ann  has  a  re- 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-  ligion  class.  Everyone  at  the  uni- 
day  Saints.  One  girl  in  Ann's  versity  is  required  to  take  religion- 
apartment  is  not. a  member  of  the  at  least  two  credits  each  quarter. 
Church,  but  she  kneels  and  takes  Ann  likes  religion  classes.  There 
her  turn  at  prayer,  because  she  is  are  courses  in  the  departments  of 
investigating  the  gospel  and  enjoys  Archaeology,  Bible  and  Modern 
the  religious  atmosphere-  Scripture  (Book  of  Mormon,  Doc- 
The  forenoon  is  busy— a  class  in  trine    and     Covenants,     Pearl     of 
Page  500 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG  UNIVERSITY 
501 
Great  Price),  Church  History, 
Church  Organization  and  Admin- 
istration, and  Theology  and  Re- 
ligious Philosophy.  Since  over 
fifty  different  courses  in  religion  are 
offered,  Ann  has  a  variety  of  choic- 
es. The  classes  are  opened  with 
prayer  and  song  and  carefully  fol- 
low a  course  of  study.  Through 
these  classes  Ann  has  greatly 
strengthened  her  testimony.  Since 
she  studied  these  courses  as  inten- 
sively as  any  other  college  course, 
she  got  much  more  out  of  them 
than  when  merely  auditing  the  same 
subject  matter. 
At  noon  Ann  goes  through  the 
cafeteria  line  for  her  lunch  and 
carries  her  tray  to  the  table  where 
her  friends  usually  meet.  She  places 
the  food  on  the  table,  then  quickly 
and  silently  bows  her  head  and  says 
a  brief  blessing.  No  one  ridicules 
her  and  she  is  not  embarrassed  at 
this  school  which  is  dedicated  to 
religion.  There  is  no  coffee  served 
in  the  cafeteria  nor  at  any  other 
place  on  the  campus.  There  is  no 
smoking,  either. 
ANN  is  majoring  in  Home  Eco- 
nomics, so  in  the  afternoon  she 
has  a  good,  stiff  course  in  chemistry 
—both  class  and  laboratory  work. 
She  expects  when  she  graduates  to 
be  either  a  dietician  or  a  mother 
who  really  knows  the  composition 
and  value  of  foods— she  will  prob- 
ably be  both. 
She  studies  during  the  balance  of 
the  afternoon,  most  evenings,  and 
on  week  ends.  She  learns  that 
scholarship,  like  any  other  great  re- 
ward, comes  only  through  daily  and 
constant  work.  And  she  soon  learns 
to  enjoy  study  as  much  as  she  once 
learned  to  enjoy  play.  Hard  study, 
like  virtue,  she  finds,  has  its  own 
reward. 
On  Tuesday,  however,  after  a 
long  afternoon  of  work,  Ann  goes 
to  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tion meeting  in  the  Joseph  Smith 
Building  on  the  campus.  It  is  a 
meeting  of  the  Campus  Branch, 
which  is  made  up  of  students  liv- 
ing on  and  near  the  campus.  It  is 
an  unusual  branch,  for^  it  is  made 
up  of  and  operated  entirely  by  stu- 
dents and  this  last  year  had  an 
average  attendance  of  1,016  in  sac- 
rament meetings.  Ann  likes  the 
fast  meetings  best  of  all,  because 
the  testimonies  of  the  young  people 
from  all  over  the  world  are  thrill- 
ing to  her.  Because  so  many  young 
people  want  to  bear  their  testi- 
monies, two  fast  services  are  held 
each  Sunday,  and  over  forty  stu- 
dents relate  their  spiritual  experi- 
ences. Ann  realizes,  as  she  never 
realized  before,  that  ours  is  a  world- 
wide Church— it  is  not  confined  to 
Utah,  nor  even  to  the  Western 
United  States. 
At  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tion meeting  Ann  sits  with  John. 
John  is  one  of  seven  hundred  re- 
turned missionaries  on  the  campus 
and  met  Ann  at  one  of  the  regular 
student  body  dances.  They  are  en- 
gaged to  be  married  when  both  of 
them  graduate  next  year.  It  is  a 
pattern  which  is  the  case  with  many 
young  men  and  women  at  the 
Brigham  Young  University.  Com- 
ing from  far  distances,  where  there 
may  be  little  opportunity  to  marry 
in  the  Church,  and  surrounded  at 
the  Brigham  Young  University 
with  a  religious  atmosphere  and  a 
wholesome  social  life,  many  young 

502  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINES-AUGUST  1952 
people  marry  or  become  engaged  Brother  Maeser  carried  out  the 
on  the  campus,  and  they  nearly  all  instructions  faithfully,  and  the  pat- 
are  married  in  one  of  the  temples  tern  has  never  been  forgotten, 
of  God.  Those  words  have  been,  engraved 
Such  is  a  day  in  Ann's  life  at  the  in  the  minds  of  the  Brigham  Young 
Brigham  Young  University.  It  can  University  faculty  since  that  hum- 
be  multiplied  by  six  thousand,  for  ble  beginning  with  twenty-nine  stu- 
these  are  the  routines  and  influ-  dents,  and  today  that  charge  still 
ences  which  affect  that  many  young  stands  as  a  guidepost.  A  striking 
people  at  Brigham  Young  Uni-  example  of  this  spirit  was  force- 
versity  every  day.  And  the  benefit  funv  illustrated  last  year  when,  al- 
does  not  end  with  them.  The  tens  though  corrupting  influences  per- 
of  thousands  of  students  who  have  Vaded  national  athletics,  the  Brig- 
gone  out  from  Brigham  Young  Uni-  ham  Young  University  basketball 
versity  carry  this  influence  into  their  team  won  the  National  Invitational 
lives,  their  homes,  and  their  wards.  Tournament  championship  at  Madi- 
son Square  Garden  after  the  mem- 
'TPHIS  spirit  has  been  characteristic  bers  of  that  team,  as  a  group  and 
of  Brigham  Young  University  in  accordance  with  their  traditions, 
training  since  the  founding  of  the  had  engaged  in  simple  prayer— not 
school  in  1875,  when  Brigham  to  win  but  to  do  their  best. 
Young  requested  Dr.  Karl  G.  Mae-  In  many  ways,  Brigham  Young 
ser,  a  convert  of  the  Church  from  University  is  a  powerful  missionary: 
Germany,  to  come  to  his  office.  (1)   The  ninety-seven  per  cent  of 
"Brother  Maeser,"  said  the  Presi-  the  student  body  who  are  members 
dent,  "I  have  another  mission  for  of  the  Church  gain  spiritual 
you.  We  have  been  considering  strength  to  fortify  themselves  and 
the  establishment  of  a  Church  their  families  and  wards  through- 
school,  and  are  looking  around  for  out  life;  (2)  of  the  three  per  cent 
a  man— a  man  to  take  charge  of  it.  who  come  to  the  university  as  non- 
You  are  the  man,  Brother  Maeser.  members,  over  twenty-five  per  cent 
We  want  you  to  go  to  Provo  to  have  become  converted  to  the  gos- 
organize  and  conduct  an  academy  pel,  and  over  seventy-five  per  cent 
to  be  established  in  the  name  of  have  expressed  their  gratitude  for 
the  Church— a  Church  school."  the  religious  influence  of  the  school; 
A  few  days  later,  Dr.  Maeser  (3)  the  missionary  classes  conduct- 
called  at  the  office  of  President  ed  as  part  of  the  regular  religion 
Young,  and  said,  "President  Young,  curriculum  have  prepared  thousands 
I  am  ready  to  go  to  Provo.  What  of  young  men  and  women  for  calls 
are  my  instructions?"  to  the  mission  field;  and   (4)   the 
"Only  this,"  replied  the  Presi-  seven  hundred  returned  mission- 
dent,  "I  want  you  to  remember  that  aries  on  the  campus  continue  in  the 
you  ought  not  to  teach  even  the  missionary  spirit  by  conducting 
alphabet  or  the  multiplication  tables  meetings,  assisting  prospective  mis- 
without  the  spirit  of  God.  That  is  sionaries,  and  continuing  in  mis- 
all.    God  bless  you.    Goodbye."  sionary  labors. 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG  UNIVERSITY 
503 
Courtesy,  Public  Relations  Department 
Brigham  Young  University 
OPENING  ASSEMBLY  AT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  UNIVERSITY 
Students  from  all  over  the  world  sit  according  to  geographical  groups,  illustrating 
wide  distribution  throughout  the  Church. 
AT  Brigham  Young  University 
the  Church  has  gathered  out- 
standing authorities  in  the  fields  of 
science,  business,  art,  letters,  educa- 
tion, religion,  and  other  humani- 
ties. It  is,  therefore,  only  natural 
and  proper  that  the  Church  should 
turn  to  Brigham  Young  University 
for  contributions  from  this  group. 
And  they  respond  in  many  ways, 
such  as  in  the  preparation  of  man- 
uals and  lesson  books  for  auxiliary 
and  Priesthood  groups;  the  presen- 
tation of  lectures  and  radio  sermons; 
composition,  arrangement,  and  per- 
formance of  music;  assistance  in 
Church  pageants,  and  speech  arts; 
writing  of  magazine  articles  and 
books,  and  so  on.  The  school,  also, 
conducts  Leadership  Week  every 
summer  on  the  campus  and  in  Can- 
ada, to  give  Church  members  the 
advantage  of  expert  knowledge  on 
many  subjects  for  ward  use,  such 
as  Book  of  Mormon  Institute,  Fam- 
ily Life  Institute,  genealogy  train- 
ing, courses  for  teachers,  Relief  So- 
ciety work,  Church  Welfare  prac- 
tices, chapel  maintenance,  etc. 
Because  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity is  the  Church  university,  it  has 
become  one  of  the  phenomena  of 
modern  education.  Last  year,  when 
most  universities  in  the  Nation 
were  showing  declines  in  enroll- 
ment, Brigham  Young  University 
showed  increases  as  high  as  twenty- 
three  per  cent.  This  growth  is,  in 
large  part,  due  to  the  growth  of  the 
Church,  which  is  doubling  in  size 
every  twenty- three  years.  More 
than  one-half  of  the  members  of 
the  Church  now  live  outside  the 
State  of  Utah,  and,  accordingly, 
just  about  half  of  the  students  at 
Brigham  Young  University  come 
from  outside  the  State.     The  per-
