[Vol23 | April 1936 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Pussy Steele]
This from the good-natured driver. "Why, Frances, what on earth have you got to sell?" asked Martha peering curiously out of the car at his neighbor. "Pussy willows!" And Frances laughed. "What!"
This from the Pearces in unison. "Yes, pussy willows.
Those city folk will snap them up in a hurry, Mr. Pearce?in fact, they've got to. May I ride to town with you, and may I place my pussy willows in your stall, please?" "Why, sure, Frances, but I think it's a pack of foolishness. You're just a wastin' your time. Why Martha has a terrible time getting rid of her butter and eggs and fresh meat and things like that. So I can't see anybody a buyin' pussy willows. But come along, Frances." And soon Frances and her great clusters of pussy willows were in the car and along with them a sign in gay colors: "Greet the Spring with fresh-cut Pussy Willows! Only 25 cents a bunch!" IT was eight o'clock that night when Frances Beattie climbed out of the Pearce auto and presented herself to her anxious family awaiting her return.
They were standing in the doorway to give her a welcome. Mr.
Beattie had returned and was holding Baby Harold in his arms. As the parcel-laden Frances made her way into the house she assumed the role of a belated Santa Claus.
Mysterious packages were tossed about and opened with amazing rapidity. "Marbles, candies, cookies?and real new overalls!" It was Freddie who screamed his delight. "Joy, O joy! My new dress. O mother, you're wonderful," cried Betty Ann rushing to her mother with a volley of kisses. "And it's mauve, just the shade we've talked about, isn't it, mother?" "And Daddy, look?here's a new wheelbarrow for me. Now I can help in the garden!" It was Baby Harold's turn to rejoice and he did it with eyes shining. "Frances, dear, tell me how you did it?" asked the puzzled husband looking from the children's gifts to a box of groceries that Mr.
Pearce had pushed in through the door.
