[Vol23 | April 1936 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Lund]
Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund Swedish Mission SOMETIME ago greetings from the Relief Society Board of the Swedish Mission reached the office. This board was organized under the Presidency of Elder Gustav W. Forsberg in September, 1933, and has continued in connection with the Mission President and the Presidency of the European Mission, to direct the affairs of the Relief Society. The saints extended a hearty welcome, and were eager to get the instructions in Relief Society activity and the educational program. This is one of the Missions where the Annual Dues have been successfully instituted, and the sisters are for the most part very willing and eager to support the organization. The following lines, quoted from the Vingaker Branch, are typical of the spirit of the Mission: "The sisters here send their hearty greetings to the Presidency of the Relief Society. It was an unforgettable Sunday for us all when we met with the Mission President. Words cannot express our gratitude for the labor of love our sisters are doing and for all the good teachings and valuable advice we, in our imperfectness, received. We will try to remember them and put them into practical use. We all talked about you last Sunday and we extend to you a hearty invitation to come again. I now know that each and every one of the sisters here gladly will pay their yearly Dues. May God abundantly reward your self-sacrificing labors...." It is easy to work where the spirit of the people is so fine. There are now fifteen branches organized in the Swedish Mission. The sisters are faithful and devoted, and regard it a pleasure and privilege to add their part toward making the Relief Society successful. German-Austrian Mission IMMEDIATELY following the holiday season came a beautiful description of the Christmas party which was held by the Relief Society in Berlin on Christmas Eve. The color-scheme of silver and white was carried out in all the decorations. On entering the hall where the party was held, one was greeted with the soft, mellow light of candles, and soft music suggested the beauty of the occasion. In one corner of the room stood a beautiful Christmas Tree, lighted with tallow candles, all snow-white. Bon-bons, nuts and candy were wrapped in silver wrappings. At the side of the tree stood a small table covered with a white cloth, with a centerpiece of pine boughs arranged in the form of a nest. From this rose four extra long white candles, with pine boughs decorated in silver trimmings. On each side of the room, extending the entire length, were two tables covered with white cloths and decorated with pine boughs and dainty vases. Small candles, alternating green and red supplied the light. People were seated round the tables facing the tree. When the beautiful sacred service began, the organ played "Silent
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Night," and the sisters sang the beautiful words. The German saints know this beautiful carol by heart.
Stories and poems, with appropriate music, constituted the program of the evening. On the table were extra candles, and as one burned down the sister nearest it replaced it with another. As the program closed the President of Relief Society stepped from the room and returned with her arms loaded with boxes for the L. D. S. Missionaries. Two beautiful young girls presented a Christmas playlet. The work of the Relief Society is progressing very satisfactorily and the saints in this Mission expressed their pleasure at the opportunity for work in this organization. Swiss-German Mission ROM the Swiss-German Mission comes this very fine summary of the work. The Relief Society in this Mission is progressing satisfactorily, and every effort is being made to make the educational program attractive and interesting. The women seem to enjoy the work very greatly in all the branches.
This year the aim of the Relief Society is to have an organization in every branch where it is possible. Samoan Mission "THE annual reports coming into the office from every organization of Relief Society in the world, bring to us the realization of the -wide extent covered by our organization. The following report comes from Sister Agnes M. Sears, President of the Samoan Relief Society, who reports that the organizations are all progressing very satisfactorily and are fully organized.
