[Unquestioned Miracle by Christie Lund Coles]

unquestioned miracle The doubting heart... Believing now. Land of Gold Vesta N. Lukei Green aisles of peace are these Amid the orange trees That, fragrant, fruitful, grow In even row on row. The sunlight through the leaves A moving pattern weaves Like flowing water green — With iridescent sheen. The perfume in the air As nectar, sweet and fair, Invites the hummingbird, But scarcely seen or heard. Small captured suns, the round And orange fruits abound. They are the pure bright gold These southern valleys hold. Xy & YF & Vacation Plans (Continued from pagt 395) heavy gear drop on the floor as she sat down heavily on the bed. So he had been quietly planning this camping trip down to the last details, and then the bride had ridden over his dreams with her own preferences, hardly even listening to his ideas. The bride is everything. But now, a year later, she was doing it again. Only this time she wasn't a bride any longer, she was a wife, and marriage is a sharing thing. She looked, shame-faced, at Bill's picture on her dresser, gave the sleeping bags a tender flick with her dust rag, and then started downstairs to phone the office. Bill wouldn't mind being interrupted to hear the news she had to tell him! We have a complete stock of all SINGING MOTHERS CHORAL MUSIC for October Conference (Order Now!) These Are They__.__ _._..16 copy In His Steps.16 copy Seek Ye the Lord.15 copy I Will Exalt Thee, O Lord.15 copy O Lord Most Holy ___.15 copy In Heavenly Love Abiding.15 copy Immediate Service GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Salt Lake City 74 So. Main St. Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 8 SOUTH MAIN STREET Gd) 4-2581
Salt Lake City, Utah 
From Near and Sar Since entering the mission field in December 1950 I have received The Relief Society Magazine as a gift from the Monrovia, California, Relief Society. This is one of the most useful and helpful gifts I have received. It has given me many ideas and helps in preaching the gospel. I have loaned out my copies to some of the Mexican members who read English, and they have also enjoyed the Magazine. —Doris D. Whitlock Spanish-American Mission, Houston, Texas I have been reading The Relief Society Magazine since I was a young girl. I have always enjoyed the clean, wholesome stories and the messages given to the women of the Church. —Vilate B. Leavett, Kirksville, Missouri The poetry published in The Relief Society Magazine is excellent, and, in my opinion compares favorably with any poetry appearing in the big-circulation nationall magazines—and no wonder— for the poets who write for The Relief Society Magazine also write for the national magazines (Katherine F. Larsen, Christie Lund Coles, Margery S. Stewart, Lael W. Hill, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, to name a few). I particularly enjoyed "Lullaby" (January 1952 frontispiece poem, by Lael W. Hill) and that lovely, sensitive poem "The Silence' (Apnil 1951) by Margery S. Stewart. —Lois Geumlek Salt Lake City, Utah My little sister sent me The Relief Society Magazine for a birthday gift last year, and I must say it has been one of the added joys of my missionary experience.: —Maxine Thomason Stockholm, Sweden My mother receives The Relief Society Magazine, and I enjoy it very much, even though I am only sixteen. I especially enjoy the stories and the poems, as they are very uplifting. —Loa Fern Smith Glendale, Arizona 
Since my earliest recollection The Relief Society Magazine has been a visitor in our home. When I was a boy my mother was president of the Relief Society in Parowan Stake. After we moved to Colorado in 1887 she served as stake president of San Luis stake for twentyfive years. It often fell to. My lot to meet the visiting sisters from Salt Lake. My mother being a lifelong friend of Emmeline B. Wells (General President of Relief Society 1910-1921), I met and conversed many times with her. I pride myself on having received a goodbye kiss and blessing from her. With praise and prayers for your splendid work, —A. P. Mortensen San Bernardino, California I enjoy the Magazine very much and find that it is for young mothers, as well as old. I shall flaunt it before my young family, so that they will grow up reading - choice literature instead of sensational material from "popular" magazines. Being especially interested in poetry, I love that best of all. —Nellie B. Brenchley Preston, Idaho The Magazine is published for mothers and the women of the Church, and we find that it is also enjoyed by teen-age daughters. 'They do enjoy the pictures and the fiction also. It is good to have worthwhile reading for all. An_ elder here gave a sermon based on an article in the Magazine last Sunday evening. The Priesthood members also enjoy the Magazine. —Miriam W. Wnght Creston, Montana Just a word of appreciation for the Magazine. My mother, Zilpha Fuller Earl, who died in January 1952, loved 'The Relief Society Magazine more than any magazine.