[Work Meeting — Home Management by Rhea H. Gardner]

work meeting lessons on "Home Management." Rhea Hurst Gardner, Home Management and Furnishings Specialist for the Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service, was born and reared at Shelley, Idaho, a daughter of Samuel Harris and Wilhelmina Clossner Hurst.
Here she received her early education and practical experience in work on the family farm and in the home. Her mother served as a ward Relief Society president for the first any years of Rhea's life. She received her B. A.
Degree in Home Economics at the college which she is now serving, and a M. A.
Degree from Cornell University. For the past thirteen years she has been a member of the Utah Extension Service. In this capacity ve & it has been her privilege to work with Relief Society officers and members in almost every community in the state of Utah. Her Church activities include a mission to the Northwestern States, Primary president, and teacher in ~ the M. I. A. And in Sunday School. In 1948 she was married to Ivin E.
Gardner in the Idaho Falls L. DS. Temple. Six months later, death took her companion from her.
Five stepchildren and fourteen grandchildren remain to bless her life. Her hobbies are preparing good, wholesome food, wood finishing, and creating beauty in homes. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see the following references in The Relief Society Magazine: Elder Leland H. Monson, page 472, July 1951
Leone Openshaw Jacobs, July 1951
Elder Briant S. Jacobs, page 471, July 1949
Elder Archibald F. Bennett, page 469, July 1950. , y+ & Dear Conquest (Continued from page 405) and tried to make up for lost time as far as dinner was concerned. We had a fine time at the church.
Sullivan was as good as gold on Ira's knee the whole time, though he occasionally made a wild grab for Ira's nose. Ira grinned ever so proudly, and agreed with every good comment anybody made about the  baby or Maggie's playing Or anything else. We opened the presents under the Christmas tree Ira and Maggie had trimmed just before we left. One of Sullivan's presents from Ira was a tiny carved Hereford bull. I thought he must have had it made or bought it somewhere, but Ira DEAR CONQUEST — said he'd carved it himself. It was unusually clever. The wood had been highly polished and _ little joints had been placed in the two front knees of the bull so he could bow. It had a little horse-hair tail.
Maggie stared at the bull and then at Ira. Ira smiled at her. "It took me awhile to figure things out; then when I did I couldn't get in from the ranch. I made this while I wasn't fixing Dominic up. We'll use it as a peace-maker, all right?" "All right," laughed Maggie, and then Ira threw back his head and laughed. "I saw that bull sale as funny after I got back to the ranch and had time to think, but I missed you too much to laugh at anything out there."
Sullivan reached up and pulled Ira's ear. "Well," I said, stifling a yawn, "this has been a happy Christmas, hasn't it?" "It has," agreed Maggie and Ira together.
Then we all laughed again over nothing and everything.