[A Flower's Way by Evelyn Fjeldsted]

A Flower s Way Evelyn Fjeldsted Night simulates the bud of day Secret, closed—a flower's way; Morning, like the opening flower, Discloses wonder with each hour. Day, the full-blown flower, grows, Unfolding simply like the rose; And evening, like a blossom spent, Has long been touched by each event.
Unopened flower is the night, All darkness, but the bud of light.
419 SACKED MUSIC for CHURCH PIANISTS CELESTIAL ECHOES ROVENGER occ cocccesscssecseececeeneeecen $1.00 CHAPEL ECHOES PERRY occccccccssssssscsssceseeececescecececcsssovnesesseeseee
75 CHAPEL MUSINGS PERRY —cccccccccsssssssccsssssceceeccceesessesssssseesssseeees
15 SABBATH DAY MUSIC RANDOLPH 00-0 oooc---ccccccecccsccsseveseseeeesoen 1.00 SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO ARNO. O. Oo ccccccccccssssssssesescessssssssseesesseesesesesesee 1.25 SACRED PIANIST STICK LES 000. Ccccccoesesccccecccseeseceeccecsseeseeeeeee 1.00 SACRED PIANO ALBUM GAHM occccccccsssccccscsnsscecceccesssseseecssssnsvvssesescen 1.25 SACRED PIANO VARIATIONS STICKLES 0.. Ccccccccssssccccecccsusseseeeesecsvsveseeeeesee
75 TRANQUIL HOURS PRESSER. O..-cc..-ccccccsssccccsssvescecconeesessesssseeee 1.25 TWENTY PIANO DUET TRANSCRIPTIONS OF FAVORITE HYMNS KOHLMANN 00 eee FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY Daynes 45-47 SOUTH Ww Music Sent on Approval — We Pay Postage — MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAN Uncertain Possession (Continued from page 401) I promised I'd bring her news about Patty Hamilton " | _ She left the sentence unfinished, for Lorna to say whether or not they should go.
Lorna nodded briefly. "I'd like to meet her." "THEY stopped before a neat frame house.
Along the picket fence tamarisk waved fern-like fronds. Flame-red gladioli lighted a sudden fire at the edge of a pool where small, golden fishes flashed among pink and white water lilies.
Lorna felt a little as though Hallie and Matt—all of them—were wrong about Margaret's health as she saw her upon the porch. She had expected her to be in bed, pale and worn and twisted with pain. Instead, a lovely girl—the girl of Carole's photograph—came down a step or two of the porch, smiling brightly, holding out her hands to Hallie. "Hallie, I've been waiting for you." She caught the older woman's hands in a swift, understanding grip, then turned to Lorna, her black eyes bright with the knowledge of who she was. "It's Mrs. Wire Lorna isn't it?
Matt has been telling me all about you. I'm so glad you could call." Her voice sounded a little breathless as she led them back up the steps and seated them in the rustic chairs. A little. So Hallie had been coming here all the time!
Margaret had given her away. And Matt knew it, too. 
Lorna's mind buzzed © He hadn't warned Lorna. He had wanted the two women to meet as casually as two new friends might meet. He had wanted Lorna to see the woman he was so interested in. He wanted Lorna to know just how well she could be, yet how dangerously ill.
Lorna couldn't hide her astonishment as she glanced at Margaret. Margaret's eyes were deep and serious as their glances met and clung.
Margaret spoke.
Very quietly, "Matt has been telling me that you were coming to see me. He has told me about your little scrapbooks. I think you're a sweet person, Lorna. And perhaps, some- - time, you'll make a little book for Patty Hamilton. It will be some time before she's up and around." LORNA promised. She felt like crying as Margaret went slowly into the house to ask her aunt to make some punch and bring some of her raisin cookies.
Hallie was watching Lorna, and when Lorna looked up she saw a brief kindness in Hallie's eyes that was quickly dimmed as Hallie spoke. "I know you've been jealous of Margaret, Mrs. Wire. In a way you haven't been to blame.
Matt is very fond of her. But there's nothing to fear from any standpoint except your own.
Matt is too big and fine a person to ever guess that you were jealous. The idea is completely outside his comprehension." UNCERTAIN POSSESSION Her words were like tiny flails against Lorna's shamed heart. Impulsively, she moved to Hallie's side on the big rustic divan, and just as impulsively touched her hand. "All day long you've been trying to help me understand myself. I want to thank you. I." She didn't finish because Margaret and her aunt came out upon the porch. Margaret's aunt poured the pale lime punch and Margaret put a plate of dainty cookies in Hallie's hands.
Hallie took one and passed the plate to Lorna. Her usually stern, cool eyes held a little smile.
When she spoke her words made warm happiness rush into Lorna's heart. "Have a cookie, Lorna. You must be hungry after our long drive." Then, quickly, lést Lorna's shaking hands drop the cookie plate, she took it and put it down on the table Immediately, she began chatting lightly about other things.
Then it was time to go back home.
Hallie drove silently.
Lorna had very little to say. It was as though both of them knew the door that had been closed between them was now opened a little crack. 'Lorna promised herself that she would not make any more mistakes. As long as Hallie was holding out her hands, trying to help, she'd be all right. And so would John Barker. And Margaret. 'They had Dr.
Matt to lean upon. As long as he was there, they'd be all right, too! (To be continued) 421 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built Se ee All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE BIBLE SPEAKS! "MORMONISM' Proven.
From the Scriptures What is the meaning of "Saved by Grace''? Is baptism essential?... By what mode?
Should babies be baptized? Is the Lord the same, yesterday, today, forever?. « « Visions impossible in modern times? Will Christ return to earth?...
What signs and events shall precede His second coming?