[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1892 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" TEMPERANCE: "Let your moderation be known unto all men,' was the exhortation of the apostle Paul; and there has never been a time in the world's history when such an exhortation was more needed than the present, because intemperance in many things has become so common that it is almost the author of all the evils from which we suffer....
Then how much sin and sorrow is caused by intemperance in speech. The apostle James says the tongue is an unruly member, hard to tame.... We should also be temperate... And not allow angry feelings to take possession of us. If we could only remember at all times that "a soft answer turneth away wrath," and could so exercise sufficient self-control to return a soft answer when angry words are spoken.—Phebe C. Young. WHAT SOME WOMEN HAVE DONE: It is a matter of history that 320 years B. C. Martia, Queen of London, first promulgated the principles of the English Common Law in her judgments and enactments. Her Martian Statutes or Code outlived the Roman, Anglo-Saxon and Norse invasions, and we have it on good authority ~ that Alfred the Great revived her Briton laws and enforced them among the AngloSaxons and Danes. Two centuries later they were re-enacted under Edward the Confessor, and a century after, again by Stephen—therefore the earliest laws of Great Britain which in substance have been in force 2,200 years, were made by a woman. —From "Women's Reports" WILD FLOWERS TO SARAH Heart's beloved! To you I send Greetings from the canyon's shade, Gathered where the branches bend And streams with light o'erlaid; Where the birds in sweetest chorus Sing their message with my heart, And the flowers breathe their kisses In sweet odors for their part. —Augusta Joyce Crocheron SAN JUAN STAKE: Monday night the 11th of April, in company with Pres. A. F. Hammond, Sister Elizabeth Howard and Mary A. Freeze, left the City by way of the D. & R. G. R. R. To visit San Juan Stake... Reached Thompson's Springs the following morning, where a carriage was in waiting to take us to Moab, arriving at that place about 4 p. M. We held meetings the next day at ten a. M.
With the Relief Society... And remained there until the next morning, when Brother Holyoak and wife went with us on our way having fitted out a team with every convenience for travel. We traveled over fearful gulches and dugways, finally coming to a lovely place, very grand, we camped for the night, made a great fire of pine trees, prepared supper and after singing and prayer—we retired, slept well in the open air and felt refreshed...
Rose early in the morning...
That day we passed between the La Salle and Blue Mountains, far apart, and arrived at Monticello at five P. M. —Elizabeth Howard  gem for your scrapbook is the address of Mrs. David O. (Emma Ray) McKay to the Brigham Young University Women, "Attitudes 'Towards Peace as Fostered in a Well-Directed Home," printed in the Church Section of the Deseret News, April 16. Mrs. McKay stressed the importance of relations between the parents, between parents and children, and among the children themselves.
Dwelling on the need for courtesy as well as character in the home, she recalled the matual consideration and the low-voiced but respected mother in the early home of her husband's family. ELIEF Society Magazine contributors and other Utah writers won a lion's share of awards in the various contests featured at the biennial convention of the more than 150 branches of the National League of American Pen Women held in Washington, D. C. In April.
Three first places were won by Olive Woolley Burt. Blanche Kendall MckKey, Sylvia Pezoldt, and Carrie Midgley, each won a first place.
Winning second place awards, were Renie H.
Littlewood and Sylvia Pezoldt. Erla Young's art work won fourth place in over-all contributions to juvenile literature. The Utah Pen Women President, Ruth H. Chadwick, tied for third place for the greatest number of new the flaming cabin to rescue a baby.
Page 385

EDITORIAL
VOL 39
JUNE 1952
NO. 6 cJhe 122a xjLnnuat K^hurcn Lsonft
''FHE i22d annual general conference of the Church was an inspirational occasion to the tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints who crowded into Salt Lake City on April 4, 5, and 6, 1952. The experience of one convert sister was typical of the faithful. She reached the Tabernacle on Sunday morning at 6:00 o'clock so as to be assured of the privilege of being present at the proceedings of that day. Her physical body went without food all day, but her spiritual body partook of a feast.

The sustaining of Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards to fill the vacancy in the Quorum of the Twelve, occasioned by the recent death of Brother Joseph F. Merrill, was joyful news to the saints at home and abroad where his great missionary work is known and appreciated. Likewise pleasing to the saints was the naming of Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin as Presiding Bishop, with Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson sustained as first counselor and Brother Carl W. Buehner called to be second counselor.

President David O. McKay presided and conducted the sessions of the conference; and the admonitions and advice to the saints of their prophet, Seer, and Revelator were attentively heard and humbly and gratefully received. In his opening remarks President McKay gave short statements showing the achievements of the Priesthood, the auxiliaries, and the genealogical work. He also sounded a warning on the efforts in the world "to deprive man of his free agency—to steal from the individual his liberty." He continued, "Next to life itself free agency is the greatest gift of God to man." Another cause of apprehension he voiced was, "the threatening upset in national standards, the increasing tendency to abandon ideals that constitute the foundation of the American home." To counteract these evils, he advised officers and teachers in the Church to do as Paul exhorted: 'Preach the word; be instant—that is, eager, earnest—in season and out of season.' The Word to be preached, President McKay declared, is:

. . . the gospel plan of salvation . . . Preach in season and out of season belief in God the Eternal Father, in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost . . . Second: Latter-day Saints proclaim that fundamental in this gospel plan is the sacredness of the individual . . . Third: Preach that the plan involves the belief that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man. Man was not born for the benefit of the State . . . Fourth: Preach the sacredness of family ties . . . Fifth: Proclaim the necessity of honesty and loyalty . . . . Preach that honesty in government is essential to the perpetuation and stability of our government as it is necessary to the stability of character in the individual.

In President McKay's closing message at the conference he exhorted the saints of the United States to be more loyal to their country, saying:

This is an election year. Upon you devolves the responsibility of choosing our servants in government, for whoever is elected to preside over this country as President, as senators, members of the House of Representatives are your servants, not your rulers. And do not be slothful on the day of election, but come out and exercise your right and privilege as a citizen of this great Republic. What doth it profit though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Here we should prove ourselves loyal citizens.

The address of President Stephen L Richards, which depicted the history of the Tabernacle, found an echoing response in the hearts of Latter-day Saints to whom the Tabernacle is a hallowed building. President Richards declared that the Tabernacle is:

The place where the authorized servants of our Lord are sustained and confirmed by the voice of the people. Here in this venerated Tabernacle has every President of the Church, save only one, been upheld as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From here has gone forth the law out of Zion, and the blessings, the love and compassion of the servants of the Lord for his children.

President Clark warned and plead with the saints against rationalizing the gospel:

I hope that the people will not listen to the rationalizing of men who undertake to make God's plan conform to what they think it should be in their weak and ineffective reasonings.

After citing modern scriptures which answer the questions: Where did we come from? Why are we here? Whither do we go? President Clark twice urged the saints to read sections 76 and 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants to "see what the Lord has laid up for us when we live the principles of the gospel."

President Clark solemnly affirmed:

Those who have followed him [Joseph Smith] in his high and great calling of President of the Church and the Presiding High Priest of the Church, have the same rights, the same privileges, the same authority which he held, even from Joseph's time down to President McKay, who holds those rights, exercises those functions, possesses all of the spiritual powers of the Priesthood which Joseph had, and that this Church will continue to go forward, that those who follow President McKay will enjoy the like privileges, the like authority, and exercise the like functions. There is no doubt about this . . . and if we could just take this into our hearts and understand it, make it part of ourselves . . . the power of this people would be unlimited.

Obedience to the exhortations of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, and the other General Authorities is expected of all Latter-day Saints. Many were the warnings and admonitions given to uphold and obey the words of the prophets of this day and to sustain them by word and act. The thousands who saw and listened to the proceedings over the radio and KSL-TV attest to the fulfilling of the prophecy of Daniel that the stone cut out of the mountain without hands will stand forever and will yet fill the whole earth. May Latter-day Saints living now be found among the faithful of that day through obedience to the words of the prophets given to them in the great conferences of the Church.
—M. C. S.