[Literature — The Literature of England by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature— The Literature of England Preview of Lessons for 1952-53
Elder Briant S. Jacobs N this age of competition, noise, ' and speed, the opportunity to enjoy quiet beauty, to listen to one's own thoughts, or to visit with old friends and perhaps find new ones, comes too rarely. Modern life has become like a crowded highway along which we race, tense and tired, seeing nothing in the blurred landscape that flashes past as we tush along to our unknown destination. And yet all the beauties of the countryside, the valleys, mountains, lakes, and streams, the homesteads and villages where old friends and neighbors, and perhaps interesting strangers live, are still there to be enjoyed if we will slow down, leave the highway, stroll along the quiet lanes and pause to renew old friendships and make new ones among the genuine folk who dwell there. This year we are to have the opportunity of spending an hour each month visiting one of the most interesting spots in the history of literature, the period of romanticism. 'There we shall sit quietly in © a shady garden and listen as Coleridge explains what poetry is,. And gives us his opinion ofthe writings of Shakespeare. Again on another day, we will read the immortal "Ancient Mariner' to illustrate his standards of good poetry. We will visit the baronial estate of Sir Walter Scott and learn from him of his country and people, of his love for and pride in them as revealed in his poems and novels. We shall watch from a hilltop as the handsome, courageous, Lord Byron unfolds his drama before us in "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage" and "Don Juan." We shall hear the symphonic melodies of Shelley, and be fascinated by the colorful tapestries of Keats. We shall become acquainted with Jane Austen and the manners and customs of England in her time. And, as a final excursion, we shall spend a pleasant hour enjoying a panoramic view of this entire lovely retreat.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Each class leader will serve as a well-informed guide. The lessons in the Magazine will be the guidebook. In them, you will find summaries of historical backgrounds, life sketches, and brief excerpts from the works of these great writers. Study the guidebook as the wise tourist always does, so that you will know what to expect and look for, and then carry your Magazine with you as you join us each month for 'these eight satisfying visits in the land of romanticism.