LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April). Pene STANDARD OF LIVING?THE INDIVIDUAL TREATMENT Of SOCIAL PROBLEMS The efforts of society to bring about a better distribution of wealth and material comforts, and to provide more universal opportunities for education and development have been projected in many forms. Various plans and programs have been advanced to better social conditions, to raise standards of living, and to provide more general opportunities for development. In promoting health and providing facilities for medical care, in improving working conditions, in attempting to prevent delinquency and crime, a community expresses its concern for the well being of the entire group and a desire to extend certain advantages to all of its members. The activities to better social conditions may be classified according to the nature and content of the problem, such as, disease, poverty, crime, child labor, or educational provisions. Another classification of social work may be made according to the process. One process is dealing with institutions, legislation, and education, and endeavors to bring about a general or group improvement. The other method is working with individuals or families to assist them to make a better adjustment or attain a more complete development. The previous discussion pointed out various general programs designed to effect group improvement. The establishment of health centers, the control of child labor, the enactment of school laws, the improvement of industrial conditions, and countless other efforts all have their effect on the standards and development "of the whole group. But even though industrial conditions are improved, and health opportunities are provided, and satisfactory social legislation is enacted, a satisfactory adjustment for each individual cannot be expected. There still remains the problem of fitting man to his environment, of helping him'to adjust in the best possible manner to the problem of living. The process of adjusting to environment, of developing in a normal satisfactory manner, is a serious and difficult one even under favorable conditions. To persons who have many adversities, special difficulties, heavy burdens, or serious handicaps, the process of natural adjustment is made extremely difficult. Unless intelligent, understanding assistance is offered to the overburdened at the right time, the process of development is often seriously interfered with. There will always be a need for both processes?working with groups and with individuals. In any program, whether dealing with poverty, or delinquency, or labor, or health, the two processes are needed, one used to supplement the other. In every community that has a desire to help the distressed, there is need then, for community effort to improve institutions, to enact desirable legislation, to better industrial conditions, and provide health, educational, and recreational opportunities. There is also need of organized effort which seeks to recognize individual socia! Problems, to comprehend their significance and to administer the kind of assistance and treatment needed. This individual treatment, this work with persons who cannot meet alone the difficulties of living, forms an important part of a modern social welfare program. The attitude toward people who are not entirely successful socially, is changing. The family, whose income is not adequate 'to care for all its needs, or the boy who has been a truant or committed some juvenile offense is not regarded, at this time, as a failure to be pitied. The attitude of society now is to recognize such situations as evidences of society's own failure to understand and meet human needs. Social workers attempt to interpret these situations, to discover what misfortunes and handicaps have brought distress to these individuals and then to remove as far as possible the handicaps. At the same time, an effort is made to discover the possibi. Ities and potentialities of the individuals and to provide opportunities for their development. The attitude of society toward women and children who have been deprived of a father's support, by death or illness, illustrates the present conception of society's responsibility to its unfortunate members. In the past there was a greater tendency, in the event of the death of the breadwinner of the family, to place the children in an institution or orphanage and break up the home entirety. Or perhaps the mother was allowed to leave her family of small growing children and was permitted to take employment. Children were taken from school so that they could add their - small earnings to the scanty family income. Little attention was paid to the care, nourishment, health or education of the family. The problem of widowhood or of the incapacity of the breadwinner is now met not only in terms of finances or relief. The emphasis is placed in the human elements involved; on the value of home life, on the need of giving children a mother's care, on the economy and training children for future usefulness, and on the wisdom of safeguarding a family's health. To provide such a comprehensive plan of treatment for individuals and families who have been handicapped and burdened and distressed requires some community organization. The state, private societies and churches have long felt a responsibility to 
. Care for the unfortunate by providing institutions or by giving relief. These organizations are becoming increasingly conscious of the importance of the task of dealing with social problems. They are recognizing, more and more, that the guiding of human lives, the treatment of individuals in distress, is a serious undertaking, deserving of study, of understanding, and of intelligent cooperative effort. Reference: Dr. Edward T. Devine, Normal Life, pages 160-165. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is meant by group improvement programs? Give examples. 2. Why cannot all social problems be solved by programs of group improvement? What else is needed? 3. Does the establishment of a health center give assurance that all who could be benefited by the center are receiving its benefits? What service is needed to extend its benefits?. 4. Discuss school and child labor legislation as group improvement and relate their administration to individual treatment. 5. What are the functions of a probation officer of the juvenile court? 6. Why has the emphasis in dealing with families whose income is not adequate been changed from mere relief to continued, understanding service? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME The Restoration "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people."? Revelations 14:6, "But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it.'?Micah 4:1. A. The Church organized at Fayette, Seneca county, New York, April 6, 1830, with six members. B. Note the marvelous and steady growth of the Church throughout the years as a fulfilment of promise and prophecy. C. Discuss the significance of Easter, symbolizing the resurrection, and the organization of the Church in April?the springtime of the year and the renewal of all things beautiful.