[Vol11 | February 1924 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Packing Clothes at the General Office for Central Europe Ill]

Europe. Also we include a photograph of the boxes at the completion of the packing in Utah stake. These two pictures will give an idea of what was accomplished in the general office and in the offices of the various stake organizations. While we published the pictures that chance to be at hand, a goodly number of the stakes furnished boxes of clothes that are in the same class with those furnished by Utah stake.
The generosity of the Latter-day Saints has been tested many times, during and since the war, always with surprising results. The recent call for clothing, which brought together two large rooms full of clothes, both old and new, from which three carloads have already been shipped, is no exception to the rule. The response throughout the Church has been deeply gratifying, and is another evidence of what can be done by an association as completely organized as the Relief Society, and equipped with women whose ability to lead and execute has again made itself manifest in this latest project, as in many others, in times past.
Bobbie Miller, Flapper By S. L. Cheney
Two things were uppermost in Grandma Miller's confused mind as she sat nervously awaiting the zero hour; first, she was to make another effort to reform an impulsive, high-spirited, and too self-reliant granddaughter who had again been guilty of scandalous misconduct; second, judging from past experience, such chastisement and advice as she might give were likely to be absorbed about as readily as water on a rubber mat. Still something must be done and that immediately, for, as Grandma had expressed herself: "Things are coming to a pretty pass when a mere child can spend the night gadding about, half-dressed, with strange and questionable young men to strange and questionable places."
The door opened slightly and a young roguish countenance appeared in the aperture. A countenance which would have been more than ordinarily attractive had not nurture stepped in with powder, paint, henna-rinse, and scissors, and robbed nature of some of its best handiwork. Still the large, expressive, blue eyes, oval face, pretty teeth, and dimpled chin beneath a mass of beautiful, though abbreviated curls, were sufficient to excite envy in her own sex and admiration and covetousness in those of the opposite; a thing which no one knew better than Frances Bobbie Miller herself. And, it may be added, it was no small part of her philosophy of life to see that they continued to do so.
"Hello, Granny. Did you want to see me?" came in a saucy alto voice.
"Yes, Frances," replied her grandmother with subdued gentleness.
"Don't call me Frances!" exclaimed the spirited debutante, "It sounds too much like hoop-skirts and powdered wigs."
"Well, bless me, but that is what you were christened, my dear."
"Yes, I know, but it wasn't my fault; besides that was seventeen years ago. Times have changed since then, and people ought to have done so," she insinuated.
"What shall I call you, then, Fran??"
"Oh?oh, anything but that!" interrupted the exasperated leader of Millburg's younger set, and she stamped her dainty little French-heeled slippers upon the highly-polished floor in exaggerated fury. "Bobbie is my nineteen twenty-four appellation. It's both short and sweet as the fellows say. Please oblige me in future by calling me Bobbie."
Grandmother made no immediate reply to this imperious request, for her vision was busily engaged in taking inventory of the expensive gown recently displayed at the "New Paris Shop," on Main Street. A gown Frances knew her grandmother strongly objected to, but for reasons entirely unconvincing. That was like Frances. She was at an age when counsel was most needed but there was no one to whom she would listen. She had no parents and insisted upon taking the advice given by her grandmother as either scoldings or jokes and therefore, paid no attention to it. So far she had been holding herself above water by her own ingenuity but at any time her environment might present an unconquerable situation. If it did so, she was lost, since there was no trusted person to whom she could turn for assistance.
For a time Bobbie watched the obvious struggle going on before her with secret amusement. Slowly her gaze traveled from the twitching hands to the quivering chin and tear-filled eyes. Yes?the eyes were filled with tears which had started to overflow and trickle down care-worn cheeks. A big heart, whose varied impulses had seldom been inhibited, awoke at once.
"Why, Grandma," exclaimed the girl in alarm, as she sprang from her chair and threw her arms around the old lady's neck. "forgive me, I was only teasing you. Why, you are the dearest sweetest Granny in the whole world. I wouldn't do a thing to hurt you. If I could live without, but I can't. Why, if I tried being like the girls were sixty years ago I'd be ostracized from society?yes, worse than that, I'd be locked up in a mental hospital. Times have changed so, don't you see Grandma?"
A sporty, maroon-colored roadster drew up in front of the house and as the shrill honk of the horn sounded Frances ran to the window.
"There is Billy, now," she exclaimed, "I must jazz along, but don't you worry anymore about your little ewe lamb, Granny mine. Take my word for it she'll be all right. And if she only had that new gown she would go to the concert with Dr. Van Devener just to please you, if for no other reason."
Grandma felt a warm kiss pressed upon her brow. She looked up. Her granddaughter smiled engagingly, tossed her curls, pirouetted, and was gone.
"Shucks!" muttered Grandma but there was a look in her kindly old eyes which said that she was not entirely displeased.
For several minutes after the door closed, Grandma sat silent and thoughtful, her soul still thrilling at the sincere though fleeting caress which had afforded her a momentary recognition of the feelings and sympathies of a real girl beneath so deceiving an exterior. If only that moment could have lasted until they had arrived at a better understanding, but as ever, the impulses which actuated her granddaughter refused to grant an extended period of seriousness. Yet, somehow, the very wilfulness of this thoughtless, high-spirited girl demanded admiration. Her words, her actions, in fact almost everything about her, gave evidence of red blood running at its highest; craving change, excitement, and frivolity, as strongly as the aged crave quiet and rest. Grandma knew the signs, for she had experienced just such desires. Had she gratified them? Her eyes twinkled with mischievous intent, as in reminiscence she again lived through those brilliant years of girlhood when young, beautiful, and active she had been as a wild young thing among other wild young things; seeking sensation as ardently as the morning-glory seeks the sun. She, too, had endeavored to break away from the too austere, adult conventionalisms, because they interfered with her desires, and as a result, had shocked her august father and dear, though perhaps too circumspect mother by kissing her beaus, attending all-night parties, and wearing low-necked, short-sleeved dresses. All such unrestrained actions had offered her deep though stolen satisfaction. In fact the more unrestrained and excessive, the more pleased she had been with herself and the more highly approved, praised, and sought after by others of her set. What more could the young belle of a town want? It had seemed to her that this constituted about all there was worth living for, and in order to realize it she had rejected as absurdly antique much of the advice proffered by her elders. She had never realized the nature of the pain and worry she must have caused, until it had fallen to her lot to pass through a like experience in the training of her wilful orphan granddaughter. To her it seemed a punishment as well as a hopeless task to control and properly direct this exaggerated reproduction of her early self. Her duty, however, was evident. She would never cease striving with the child, no matter what should happen; her love and an impelling desire to make restitution would not permit her to do so. But that was not all, there was the solemn pledge given to Frances' dying mother, more than eleven years before when a pitiful struggle for life had been in vain. At the last moment she had called Grandma to her bedside and, in a whisper that was barely audible, had pleaded that she would do all in her power to shield her little girl from anything which might mar or tarnish the purity and sweetness of her soul. Grandma had bowed her head and from the fulness of her heart had declared that she would protect the child with her life, if need be. This promise had not been hard to keep until about two years previous when Frances had changed suddenly from a child into a young woman, and became actuated by new and strange impulses and desires which seemed to demand constant change and excitement. The hum-drumness of life with her grandmother no longer sufficed; it took association with young people, as unstable and high-strung as herself, to allow her pent-up energy an opportunity for expression. Grandma recognized this as not only a natural and important but also a very critical stage in her granddaughter's development. She knew that if there ever was a time in a person's life when wise and sympathetic guidance was needed it was at this period. That was it; proper guidance rather than absolute prevention which was too often attempted without success. And no wonder, since to prevent the expression of the numerous, throbbing impulses of youth was like trying to prevent the downward rush of a mountain torrent by placing a dam in its pathway, knowing full well that it would only break out in another place with perhaps added violence. Even supposing some power, human or otherwise, could successfully halt all those wild and uncontrollable cravings, would the outcome be gratifying? Would it not cause such a stagnation as would result in the atrophy of both spirit and energy to the extent of producing a human manikin instead of a well-developed man? Grandma's experience assured her that there was not as much exaggeration in such a conclusion as one might think. But her problem was by no means solved. It was all very well to talk of wise guidance that would encourage some tendencies and discourage others, but when all the fads and fancies seemed alike vicious, where was one to draw the line? It were as easy to decide which was the more dangerous: Scylla or Charybdis. But whenever this thought registered in her mind she discarded it as being too morbid to be true. It smacked too much of a by-gone generation, a generation which judged from the exterior only. What reason had she for being so sure that evil results would follow all of Frances' doings? Mayhap the muck through which she appeared to be wallowing would cling no more tenaciously to her soul than did the excessive paint to her face. Perhaps when the time came she would slough it off as easily. A number of the young matrons with whom Grandma was acquainted, had apparently done so. Why not Frances? But there were others who had not; young, innocent girls who had come to the dividing of the ways and in their blind ignorance had taken the one leading to their disgrace and destruction. Grandma shuddered as she thought of them. Frances must be saved from such a fate at all hazards. But how was it to be done and by whom? She steadfastly rejected counsel coming from anyone except members of her own set, and as these were as reckless as herself there was little hope in that direction. If only she would sever connections with her present associates and acquire new ones in more respectable circles; and especially if she would choose her future escorts from among those of irreproachable morals such as young Dr. Van Devener, Grandma felt that everything would be all right. But she was helpless before the task of bringing this about. There was perhaps one chance in a hundred that she could succeed, and that was to purchase the new gown which would insure Frances' accepting the company of Dr. Van Devener for one evening at least. It would probably end at that but then there was a slight chance of its developing into something of a more lasting nature. Such a purchase would demand of her a great sacrifice, not only financially, by necessitating the spending of savings hoarded for the purpose of making a visit, perhaps the last, to an only sister residing in Oregon. But also in moral sentiment which cried out against the present tendency of dressing in a manner to expose so much of one's person to the cold, sensual gaze of evil-eyed men. To Grandma it seemed a pollution of that which should be held most sacred. But then there was the chance that this evil might combat a greater one. It might be the charm that would divert the turbulent spirit of her granddaughter into safer channels. Such a result would more than compensate for any sacrifice. The gown ought to be purchased tonight and so avoid a possible refusal of Dr. Van Devener's invitation before it could be secured in the morning. But would there be time? Already the light in the room was fast being dissolved by lengthening shadows, prophetic of approaching night, while the stately grandfather's clock pointed out its message of five-thirty; only half an hour before the closing of the business day. If she could only order by phone and have a special delivery made, but this she was afraid to attempt not trusting her ability to describe the gown in a way that would clearly designate it. She must and would get it herself. Sighing wearily she arose from her chair and went as hastily as possible to her bedroom where she secured her hand-bag and a heavy wrap and without further delay left the house. Once upon the street, she discovered that it was snowing heavily, that the sidewalks were already covered with a wet, slippery surface. In her haste she had forgotten her rubbers and umbrella, but there was no time to return for them, so with scarcely a moment's hesitation she started down the street. There were four blocks to go; three to Main street and one down to the corner of Main and Washington. It was a long way to walk especially on a night like this but to go over to Broadway and run chances on having to wait ten or fifteen minutes for a street car was not to be thought of. She proceeded as rapidly as possible along the slushy sidewalk, slipping frequently and being still further disconcerted by the blinding barrage of snow. To make things worse, old rheumatic pains commenced stabbing their way through her joints with unmitigated fury. Her strength began to ebb, but this loss was compensated for by an increase in determination, so that she obstinately refused to heed the dictates of reason which warned her either to stop or turn back. Even when escaping a bad fall by the merest chance, as a result of stumbling from the curb at Second Avenue, she only set her teeth more firmly, clinched her hands, and continued. By the time First Avenue was reached she was trembling uncontrollably and decided to rest a minute in the semi-protected entrance to the Congregational church. From this point she could hear the muffled throbbing of motors and see the continuous blur of light which announced Main Street. They came as a challenge to her further endurance, and in a sort of desperation she accepted the challenge, goading her faltering limbs into hesitating, slipping, sliding, stumbling action. She reached Main Street almost in a state of panic, but recovered her assurance to a certain extent at the sight of the passing throngs. Here, at least, was help, even though it should not be called upon. Permitted now to think somewhat less of her own safety, her thoughts centered more upon her errand. Would the shop be closed before she could reach it? Or, worse still, would the gown be sold? Strange to say, this last possibility had not entered her mind before. The fear it caused, strongly stimulated her lagging spirits, and with quickened steps she threaded her way through the nondescript crowds of business men, shoppers, newsboys, and window gazers, entirely unaware of the attention she attracted, in fact, unaware of everything except the one fervent, impelling, almost prayerful desire that she would not be too late. When finally she reached her destination, tears of gratitude sprang into her eyes, for there was the gown in all its brilliancy, still draped gracefully upon a form in the window as it had been when first she saw it. And beyond, clerks were still busily engaged waiting on customers. Grandma felt a pang of conscience as she gazed at the flimsy material before her and realized her intentions of buying it as a covering for her pretty granddaughter. A covering! Why it would cover no more space than an old-fashioned chemise. Still it must be the style since all the smartly dressed young ladies wore just such frocks, apparently vulgarly designed for the purpose of showing much and suggesting more. What motive other than the most morbid could possibly sanction such styles? Yet here she was seemingly adding her approval by purchase and from motives entirely of the best. And what harm could come of it? Supposing she didn't buy this dress? Frances would be sure to get one like it in cut if not in quality and?. Here Grandma's train of thought was suddenly interrupted by a saleslady who had stepped into the window and begun removing the gown from before her eyes. Was she selling it? Grandma caught her breath as she hurriedly entered the store. A fleeting vision of a tall, handsomely-dressed young man counting out bills was quite sufficient to convince her.
1. Stumbling up to the clerk she cried out appealingly, "Wait a minute, please, I want to buy that dress."
2. "I am sorry, madam, but it has just been sold to this gentleman."
3. Something like a moan escaped Grandma as she clutched at the counter for support. Too late! Too late to help Frances! What could be done? The young man and saleslady exchanged wondering glances across the counter, then the man said in a slightly husky voice, "Let her have it. There is another down at Robbins that will suit my sister quite as well."
4. Grandma turned and thanked her benefactor in a tremulous voice. Why it was Dr. Van Devener! She had failed to recognize him before. It was very embarrassing that he should be the purchaser.
5. "No thanks are due, Mrs. Miller," said the doctor graciously dismissing the subject. "How are you these wintry days? I hope your rheumatism isn't troubling you."
6. "Thank you, I am feeling quite well," she replied sinking down on a stool. Dr. Van Devener watched her closely as she opened her worn handbag and extracted the necessary money for the purchase. He noted the weary expression on her face, the trembling body and wet feet, and mentally predicted a "bad spell" as a result.
7. "We will send it up the first thing in the morning," explained the clerk as she placed the carefully folded gown in a box preparatory to wrapping.
8. "I wish to take it with me," declared Grandma, "I must have it tonight."
9. "Very well, it will be ready in a minute."
10. "I see, Mrs. Miller, that you have walked down this evening. A very unwise thing to do in such weather. Let me beg of you not to attempt walking back. My car is at the curb and I shall be more than glad to take you home," said the doctor.
11. "It is very kind of you, I am sure, but I couldn't think of putting you to so much trouble," faltered Grandma.
12. "No trouble at all, as I am going your way it will simply afford me a desired opportunity of having a brief chat with you."
She knew that it had not been his previous intention to go her way, but that was like him; always trying to help someone and doing it in such a way as to appear that the effort cost him nothing. However, she had no desire to refuse. To be taken home so speedily and comfortably was the most pleasant thing she could think of just then. Without waiting for her answer he took the well wrapped package which was placed upon the counter and then carefully assisted her out of the store and across the slippery sidewalk to where his sedan stood waiting. A few minutes later he helped her up the steps to her own door. After being assured with many thanks that there was nothing else he could do, he raised his hat and bade her a cheery good-night. She watched his stalwart form as he swung down the steps and out to his car through the falling snow and wondered why it was that a girl of Frances' intelligence could not recognize his vast superiority to the jazz-loving fellows she insisted on going with. Then her thoughts turned to her own comfort and she heaved a sigh of relief. How good it was to be back. Soon her own cozy room would afford her the quiet and rest she so much needed. In her haste to secure the latchkey to unlock the door she lost control of the package which slid from under her arm to the railing and from thence down to the walk in front. She must get it at once or the gown would become wet and soiled. Grasping the railing with both hands she very carefully descended the slippery steps to where the package lay. Picking it up she wiped it dry and then stopped to consider her position. Handicapped with the package as she was she disliked the idea of having to go back up those steps alone. For her they were dangerous at best and tonight, laden with snow and sleet, they presented a real difficulty. But with care perhaps she could manage. She placed her right foot firmly on the first step but as she attempted to raise the other, both feet shot out from underher and she fell heavily forward, striking her head against the edge of the top step. For a time she lay quite unconscious of all her aches and pains, then slowly recovering she became aware of a terrible throbbing in her head, and such a feeling of general weakness and nausea that it seemed impossible for her to move. She would lie still for a few minutes until it passed away before attempting to go in, The package had slipped from her grasp and was being covered with snow on the steps beside her. Fearing lest the dampness would ruin the gown, she exerted all her strength in an effort to reach out and draw it under her. The task was accomplished; the gown lay protected from the snow by her body but she ceased to be aware of the fact. Her last thought as she drifted off into oblivion was a sort of prayer that Frances would