[Vol11 | February 1924 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Bobbie Miller, Flapper S. L. Cheney]

BOBBIE MILLER, FLAPPER 75 not return in time to find her lying there.

She would feel so disturbed about it.

For several hours the snow continued to cover Grandma's prostrate form with a protecting mantle, falling quietly so as not to disturb her slumbers, Then it ceased and the moon came into view, looking down upon the earth in a clear, cold, impersonal manner; dissolving the shadows and freezing the ponds; bringing to light a pile of snow oddly heaped up on Mrs. Miller's front steps.

But there was no one to see or wonder.

At it.

The entire city was asleep with the exception of a few unholy places where reckless youth still drank in reckless enjoyment.

Perhaps the most noted of these was "Tom's Place," a disorderly roadhouse twelve miles out, where, under the protecting shades of night, all manner of sin was sold to the young in the guise of pleasure.

As usual they had been having a gay "rough-house," but as day approached the greater part of the nondescript crowd had gradually departed.

Only a few remained and most of these were so under the effect of intoxicants that it was likely they would not be able to leave for some time.

Two or three couples alone were trying to keep up the spirit of the evening but even they showed signs of weariness.

At a table in one corner of the main room, slightly screened from the others, sat Frances somewhat disheveled and effervescing with a devil-may-care cheerfulness.

Across the table sat her escort, Billy Ryan, heavy-se', heavy-jawed, heavy-eyed, in fact heavy in everything except his neatly waxed baby mustache and securely cooped-up brains.

But he had an unlimited supply of money, recklessness, slang and sleeked hair, so what more could a girl want?

They had arrived late which probably accounted for the fact that they were more alert than the others, still there was an unnatural luster about their eyes and a flush about their cheeks which evidenced a night of dissipation.

They had come here ostensibly to dance, but tiring of this were now amusing themselves with cigarettes and chatter interspersed with peals of almost uncontrollable laughter.

It ought to be said in justice to Frances, that with all her love for the sensational, this night's doings were going a little too far, and she quietly resolved not to let herself in for such another. *She would have objected to it this evening if she could have done so without losing her reputation as a good sport.

She had been in with a smart set as usual looking for the unusual.

After dancing themselves into a glow to the tune of a ripping jazz orchestra they had gone to McReady's for a midnight luncheon.

Under the excitement of it all, Frances was enveigled into drinking too many cocktails which aroused her dare-devil spirits to the point where nothing 
 seemed impossible.

Thus when the party broke up and Billy dared her to make a night of it by going slumming, she had accepted the dare; but when she discovered the kind of place that Billy was taking her to, she regretted her hastily given assent and tried to dissuade him, but to no avail.

"This is a tough place, I know," he had said, "but what's the harm in stepping in and seeing how they carry on?

They can hurt us because we won't let 'em.

Surely, Bobbie, with all your boasted sportiness you wouldn't back out now?

You're not weakenin', are you?" This taunt was too much for Frances, so she permitted him to escort her to a table where shortly a foul-smelling waiter made his appearance carrying a badly-soiled napkin on one arm.

"Fill 'em up," ordered Billy.

"Something for a lady," he added with a wink.

Frances was against taking another drink because she felt rather giddy already, but when the glasses were filled she did not dare refuse for fear of angering her escort.

Almost immediately she had a sensation of uncontrollable cheerfulness and knew that she talked and laughed a great deal and that Billy did the same, but for the life of her she did not know what it was all about.

Finally, after regaining her senses somewhat, Billy's voice came to her through a haze: 'Well, kid, are we going to get married, or are we ain't?" He had asked her the same question a great many times without receiving a satisfactory answer, for while she liked him as a pal her instincts warned her against him as a husband.

But after that last cocktail she was not herself.

His question appealed to her only as a witty remark and so she responded with a peal of laughter.

"What do you say, Clover B'ossom?" Reaching across the table he seized her hands, then allowed his fingers to crawl slowly, clingingly along her bare arms until they clutched at her shoulders.

"When?" she giggled.

"When?" he exulted, "Why this very night.

We will take a run out to Camden and be Mr. And Mrs. Ryan before sunrise.

What do you say?" The situation was a scream.

She had never known Billy to be so funny.

"Say, but you are a foolish one, ain't you, Billy?" she teased.

"IT may be.

Foolish but I know what I want.

It's you for me, now that you've grown up," he declared endeavoring to pull her bodily across the table toward him, knocking off the glasses in the attempt.

"What do you say, "Toots?" BOBBIE MILLER, FLAPPER  77 "Aw, Billy, behave, you're hurting me.

Let me go and let's be jazzing home," she cried petulantly.

A waiter came up hurriedly to investigate what the crashing of glass meant.

"What's my bill?"' demanded Billy, Looking disapprovingly at the broken glass, the waiter frowned and replied: 'Twenty-five dollars.". That's easy.

Here's an extra five to polish your manners.

Now, Bobbie, kiddo, let's be having your answer so that we can clear out of this hold-up joint." "Why you ain't really serious about getting married, are you, Billy?

You don't really want to settle down, do you?" "Who spoke of settling down?

It's me for the high lights now and forever.

What does the poet say, "Some for the glories of this world; and some Sigh for the prophets paradise to come.' "Well, I'm for the glories of this world.

What I want is?

"A jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and thou?' "Oh, how does that go?

But, then, you know what I mean." "Billy, you'd sure be funny tonight if you didn't insist on being serious, but as it is you're just ridiculous.

Here you are wanting to get married when we don't even know whether we're in love with each other.

Besides, Granny never would consent." "It ain't like you to be worrying over what your Granny might think.

And about being in love, I guess we are about as much so as they ever get.

Be reasonable, Bobbie.

We've got along just Swell, haven't we?

Don't that argue that we always will?

But supposin' we didn't it might be the saving of some lawyer's life to be provided with a divorce case, and then we'd be just as happy and free as ever, only more so.

Just think what a sensation our elopement would cause, why it would be the talk of the town.

There wouldn't be a girl in the country but what would envy you, now would there, Toots?" She had lost the power of reasoning clearly.

If only she hadn't taken that last drink.

Billy had seriously proposed, that is 'as seriously as he knew how, and was waiting for her answer.

What should she?what cou'd she do!

Her grandmother would certainly object to her marrying Billy, but then wasn't she likely to object to anyone whom she might wish to marry, since she had a way of objecting to almost everything she, Frances, did.

This would give her an opportunity of escaping constant nagging.

Then the sensation which her elopement would cause would simply be ki ling; as Billy said it would be the talk of the town.

The newspapers would perhaps announce it in glaring headlines: 78 ' "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "The Pretty Seventeen-year Old Daughter of the Late Judge Miller Elopes with Bank President's Son," or, "Pretty Mill Miller Becomes Sto!

En Bride of Popular Billy Ryan." ' Perhaps they would publish her picture on the front page.

Wouldn't that be great?

The girls would simply turn green with envy.

Yes, she would marry him, marry him tonight.

Then the light gradually waned from her eyes as her instinct assured her that the most important reason for accepting Billy was because she was afraid to do otherwise.

He had such a temper that there was no telling what he might do if she refused him, A thinly masked expression of fear lurked in her large blue eyes as she turned her head and looked up into his face.

"Do?you promise that if we shouldn't like each other we will get a divorce?" she stammered.

"Surest thing in the world, Toots.

Now do you consent?" "Yes," she faltered.

"Hurrah!" he yelled jumping to his feet with her in his arms and proceeding to do a dance-stagger around the room, singing in a stentorian voice: "We're going to be married!

Hurrah!

Hurrah!

We're going to be married!

Hurrah!

You tell 'em, Si, Because it's no lie, We're going to be married!

Hurrah!" Everyone in the room looked on with more of an air of boredom than astonishment.

Such sights were not exactly infrequent here, A livelier interest was manifested, however, when Billy, staggering to a seat, ordered the glasses fi'led up all around.

With coarse jests, oaths, and loud laughter, for freedom reigned ? here and every one expressed himself as he pleased, the health of the two was drunk and then almost immediately the excitement ceased, the drinkers returning to their interrupted chatter, smoking, and dozing like ''A dog to his vomit, or a sow to her wallowing in the mire." Hastily putting on their wraps Bobbie and Billy left the place.

Once in the powerful new roadster Billy stepped on the gas sending the car spinning over the smooth, snow-covered road at the rate of about sixty miles an hour.

Several times they narrowly escaped turning over but neither was in a condition to know or care, They wanted to reach Camden and did not intend wasting time on the way.

It was very cold, a fact which they soon realized.

Frances, particularly, began to feel it and nestled more closely to Billy for protection.

Still in a way, she welcomed the biting air since it was gradually dispelling the fog from her mind.. She was eloping BOBBIE MILLER, FLAPPER 73 with the man beside her.

Was it the proper thing to do?

But it was too late now to entertain misgivings; besides, Billy's strong, young arm placed caressingly about her and the soothing purr purr of the motor served to allay her fears.

She even smiled at the thought of how her grandmother would alternately scold and weep over the affair.

It would be a scream.

Why.

She wouldn't miss it for anything! ' The city lay between them and their destination, and as they reached it Frances suggested that they drive around by her place and get some more wraps before going on to Camden.

"Would it be safe?' he questioned, "Safe," she slurred, "why not safe?

Don't I go in and out any time of the day or night I want to?

Besides, Granny will be dead to the world at this time of night." "Well, just as you say, but you'll have to make it snappy," he replied swinging the car into a side street and shortly coming to a sliding stop before the door.

"I won't be a minute.

You just keep the seat nice and warm until I come back," and without waiting for his assistance, she sprang out and skipped across the sidewalk.

Running up the steps she stumbled and nearly fell over an odd heap of snow which she had failed to observe.

"O Billy, come here, quick," she cried in alarm.

With an oath he left the car and joined her on the steps.

Quite as bewildered as she, he quickly brushed away the crusted coating of snow revealing the slight figure of a woman lying face downward.

Taking hold of one shoulder he turned the body over.

The woman, whoever she was, appeared to be dead.

A scream of horror escaped Frances as she recognized the still, death-like face of her grandmother.

"Bring her in!

Bring her in!" she cried hysterically as with frantic efforts she produced a latch key and opened the door.

Billy, somewhat sobered by the sight, picked up the frail burden and followed Frances into the house, inwardly cursing the luck which had temporarily interrupted their plans.

He laid her on a couch near the fireplace while Frances; trembling violently, snatched a phone directory, and commenced searching its pages.

They must have a doctor.

One name alone flashed into her mind: Dr: Van Devener.

She jerked the phone towards her staring fixedly at a certain number.

"Main 5771," she almost shrieked.

Then after what seemed an eternity a deep, rich voice came to her over the wire; "Hello, this is Dr. Van Devener." "This is Frances, Frances Miller.

Please come over at once, something terrible has happened to Grandma." Scarcely waiting for an answer she snapped the receiver so RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE back into place and dashed to the side of the couch where she desperately began chafing her grandmother's frozen arms, hands, and face,, "Why doesn't the doctor come?" she asked over and over, although but a few minutes had elapsed since she had called him.

For the first time she commenced to wonder why her grandmother had been found in such a condition.

Vaguely she recalled having seen a package clasped in her arms.

Why, she must have been out shopping, but what for?

As she moved around the couch, her foot struck against something.

She glanced down, recognizing the package.

In the confusion it had been extricated from its embrace and now lay at her feet in a torn and trampled condition.

Something snapped in Frances' brain as she caught _a glimpse of what it contained.

She stooped and tore the covering away.

Yes?it was the gown!

The gown she had pestered her grandmother about so much.

The truth of the whole situation burned its way into her guilty conscience.

It had been bought so that she, Frances, would go to the concert with Dr. Van Devener, and why?

Oh, she knew.

After her narrow escape tonight, she knew!

Her glance wandered to where Billy stood with an unsympathetic almost a bored expression on his darkly flushed face.

A feeling of intense repungance seized her.

"Please go," she commanded.

"Who, me?" he asked in astonishment.

"Yes," she replied firmly.

A glint of anger sprang into his eyes but without another word he bowed stiffly and left the room.

Almost at the same instant the doctor arrived, his large expressive brown eyes and handsome face bespeaking more than professional concern.

Frances came toward him appealingly, "We found her on the steps?" then her voice trailed off into an hysterical moan and she could say no more.

"There, there, Miss Miller," he said reassuringly as he grasped her outstretched hands, "perhaps it won't be so bad 'after all.

We'll see what can be done." He went immediately to where Grandma lay stretched out on the couch.

One glance at the bruised forehead told him the story.

He took her wrist between his long deft fingers and felt for the pulse but there was no evidence of life there.

Hastily securing a stethoscope from his bag he proceeded to listen very carefully for anything that might give evidence of a beating heart.

Frances watching him was sure that she read the worst in the expression of his sensitive features.

Oh, what would she do!

What would she do!

With speechless lips and staring eyes she sank down on her knees, by the side of the cold, silent, expressionless form, She did not hear the words of encouragement the doctor uttered.

She did not even seem to BOBBIE MILLER, FLAPPER 81 realize that he was still standing at her side.

One idea alone possessed her; dear old Grandma would be with her no more.

Her dearest, sweetest, truest friend had left her.

And why?

The accusing finger pointed at her, at her thoughtlessness, her way-wardness, her recklessness her unappreciativeness.

Yes, she was the guilty one.

She had allowed her grandmother to worry over her, plead with her, sacrifice for her without ever sensing or understanding the true purpose of it all.

It had taken this last supreme sacrifice to bring her to her senses.

Like coals of fire this thought burned in her brain to the exclusion of all others.

"Grandma has given her life to save me." Violent sobs shook her small body, great tears sprang into her eyes, then overflowed, plowing red and white furrows as they ran down her painted cheeks.

With a moan she sank forward, her trembling hands caressing the cold, white cheeks as she bent her head until her lustrous curls mingled with the thin gray locks beneath.

"Grandma, dear, sweet Grandma," she murmured fervently, and her quivering, tear-stained lips touched those once so eagerly responsive, now cold and silent.

She was grasped forcibly by the shoulders and a to her feet.

"Now?now, don't give way like this.

So much depends upon the help you will be able to render.

I must have your "assistance," came in deep commanding tones from the doctor.

"Then, she is not?" gasped Frances, a flame of hope flaring up within her.

"No, thank heaven.

With proper care she may be her normal self within a few days.

The snow was very merciful, Frances, it covered and protected her." "Then, you--you can save her?' cried Frances appealingly, her large blue eyes reflecting a wealth of confidence and assurance in him.

"Yes, Frances," he replied his rich voice trembling under the strain of control placed upon it, "We can save her."