[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 10 | Special Feature | Letter to Viet Nam — First Prize Poem Eva | Willes Wangsgaard]
First Prize Poem 10 LETTER TO VIET NAM Eva Willes Wangsgaard The summertime was rich—the sorrel foaled, The Guernsey yielded twins, the crops were lush. Each hour fitted well the patterned mold And high stars twinkled over midnight hush— A summer like all others, picnic-true. We fished the Blackfork, iced a worthy load. We swam and boated. Bear Lake was as blue When we looked backward from the canyon road. But I walk two dimensions—one aware Of outer fullness blessing stall and bin, While my insurgent heart denies its share. Its threshing leaves an emptiness within. Abundance harvested, the beasts' content Without your nearness seem inconsequent. Now leaves are making music overhead. The winds raise slender flutes above the beat, A plaintive number saying, '"'Summer's dead,"' While still the grass is green beneath my feet. The willows drop long tears where leaves are thinned; The lindens twist in Spanish pirouettes. The Norway maples whistle with the wind And sycamores shake balls and castinets. Where locust blossoms filled the April night With fragrance, penetrating, intimate, Now pod-harmonicas lift strains as light While leaves twirl grace notes, golden, intricate. In loneliness breathed through these vibrant reeds Another year leans where the mallard leads. Today I walked across our stubbled fields While still the frost flakes sparkled everywhere. I strode along to where the mountain wields Its stubborn strength against our spade and share. Do you remember from the years gone by How golden is our valley in the fall? How aspens, poplars, elders, shrubs all vie To be more golden than a warbler's call? I played a childish game, a thin pretense That you were with me striding hand in hand. Did you draw one crisp breath? A moment sense This brisk, bright freshness pass through jungle land? A wild goose honked, and in that spike of sound I read ''Return'' and felt my faith rebound. Eva Willes Wangsgaard First Prize Winner Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, has had several books of her poems published, has received prizes in many state and national contests, and is one of Utah's best known and best loved poets. ''! Am still living in the home on 28th Street,'' she tells us, ''and am still enthralled with the garden in the growing seasons, where several organizations hold their summer parties. All three of the children live in Cache Valley; the thirteen grandchildren are growing up. Two are married, with two children each. One, the oldest girl, finished college last year and is teaching in Salt Lake City. Her brother Joseph David Evans is in West Germany serving a mission. Michael Wangsgaard, my son Dee's eldest, is back from a mission to the Northeastern States. He was married this past August, and both he and his wife are finishing their college courses at the Utah State University. Jim, my son Reid's son, is also attending Utah State. "lam still writing poetry. My chief outlets are the national literary contests and the various church magazines. My latest achievement "Night in the Mountains,'' a sonnet, was chosen to illustrate the poet's approach to nature in a new text ''Science: a Key to the Future,"' for junior high schools, published by the Macmillan Company. I have a biographical note in Who's Who in Poetry International, and in International Biography, both books compiled and published by UNESCO.'' 1] Second Prize Poem