[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 47 | Home | Catherine B. Pratt Finds Many Uses for | Greeting Cards]
46 Catherine B. Pratt Finds Many Uses for Greeting Cards Catherine 'Billeter Pratt, who was born in Zurich, Switzerland, was brought by her parents to Utah in 1884, when she was two years old. She married William Parker Pratt, grandson of Parley P. Pratt, and they became the parents of fifteen children. There are now forty-four grandchildren, thirty-five greatgrandchildren, as well as many step-grandchildren and step-great-grandchildren. Over the years, Mrs. Pratt has received thousands of beautiful greeting cards—for her birthdays, for Christmas, for Valentine's Day, Easter, Mother's Day, and other occasions. Finding these cards ''too beautiful to throw away," Mrs. Pratt has made colorful scrapbooks for children, especially for children's hospitals; and she has included greeting cards with special messages in Books of Remembrance, in family histories, and in photograph albums. She finds her "happy hobby'' to be inexpensive, interesting, and important to herself, her family, and to her many friends. Her hobby is a way of keeping the time and the people and the places that might be lost or forgotten otherwise... A way of/remembering words of encouragement and friendship to mark the years and the seasons of a long and lovely life. Mrs. Pratt loves to write and read poetry, and she especially loves the poetry which appears in The Relief Society Magazine. She has been a member of the Tabernacle Choir and has served many years as a Relief Society visiting teacher. ''My main hobby is people,'' she says, ''and I believe that if we do the best we can, the Lord meets us halfway." 47 OUR LITTLE Helen M. Peterson @ "It is simply impossible to save money these days!" I heard one young woman tell another, recently. "Everything costs so much!" she said. This mother told about giving her children modest allowances. Her fouryear-old received fifty cents a week; the three school-age youngsters each received one dollar a week. I listened to the two young mothers discussing the issue, but my thoughts drifted back to when money was scarce indeed, and the only way we could build up a "