[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 1 | Special Feature | New Year's Greeting | General Presidency]
[New Year's Greeting General Presidency]
"Happy New Year'' has become a standard greeting and a common expression of kind wishes when a New Year dawns upon the world. The New Year suggests a time of beginnings and contemplates a closing of the door on the mistakes and difficulties of the past, except for those elements of good we may have extracted from them and upon which we may better build our lives. The expression "'Happy New Year'' becomes a natural manifestation of one's feelings and desires for his friends and associates. It is indeed an exemplification of the spirit of the second great commandment: 'Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.'' The General Presidency of Relief Society extends to Relief Society women throughout the world its very sincere wishes for a Happy New Year. Relief Society women have so much to make them genuinely happy. They have the sure knowledge of the truthfulness of the restored gospel, with its plan of life and salvation clearly delineated for them. Thousands of our Father's children find themselves in much the same position as the great Belgian playwright, Maeterlinck, when he exclaimed, ''If we knew but one thing to be true, would we not give our all!'' Relief Society members may be happy in the forward march of the work of this great and divinely inspired, Priesthood-directed organization. Happiness will flow to Relief Society members in the days ahead as they contemplate the development of their individual talents and characters through their Relief Society activities. They will also find happiness added to their lives in boundless measure through the sweet association of their Relief Society sisters. Surely every sister with mind and heart centered on the abiding truths of the gospel and devotedly engaged in the work of Relief Society, may look forward with confidence to much happiness in the New Year. The General Presidency and the General Board continually pray for the happiness and well-being of Relief Society sisters throughout the world. May they ever be blessed of the Lord with the joy which their unselfish devotion to our great work so much deserves. General Presidency