[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 58 | Lesson | Theology • The Word of Wisdom — A Lif e-Giving Revelation Roy | W. Doxey]
Word of Wisdom the Lord said this about tobacco: And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for LESSON DEPARTMENT bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill (D&C 89:8). That tobacco is not good for man has been demonstrated in many ways both in the laboratory and in the lives of individuals. Since much publicity has been given to the high incidence of lung cancer to cigarette smoking, a controversy has raged between the tobacco industry and public agencies over the cause of lung cancer. Studies, however, have disclosed that the risk of lung cancer is greatly increased by cigarette smoking. WINE OR STRONG DRINK In the Word of Wisdom the Lord condemns the use of alcohol, as follows: That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him. And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make (D&C 89:5-6). In an earlier revelation, the Lord instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith by an angel that wine was unnecessary in the sacrament, but any liquid could be used as long as it was done with an eye single to the glory of God. (Ibid., 27:2-4.) Water is used as a sacramental emblem today in the Church. From the beginning of this dispensation to the present, drunkenness and the use of alcohol, except for medicinal purposes, have been condemned by the prophets. An impressive thought in connection with the Word of Wisdom and moderate drinking is given by President McKay in these words: 


.. - I am glad when I study this passage, to find that the Lord did not say, "Strong drink to excess is not good;" nor "Drunkenness is not good." Suppose he had weakened that expression by modifying it and saying, "Strong drink in excess, or when taken in large quantities, is not good," how soon we should have justified ourselves that a little drink is good. But like other eternal truths it stands un-. Qualified; "strong drink is not good" (Conference Report, April 1911, page 62). Parents who, even though observing the Word of Wisdom themselves, serve alcoholic beverages to guests in their homes, are subjecting their children to influences which adversely affect their attitudes. We are reminded of the counsel of President George Albert Smith not to step over into the devil's territory. HOT DRINKS The Word of Wisdom does not use the words tea and coffee, yet Latter-day Samts have been instructed that "hot drinks" used in verse 9 of section 89, refers to these beverages. Hyrum Smith, the brother of the Prophet, in a sermon of May 29, 1842, made such a definition. And again, "hot drinks are not for the body, or belly;" there are many who wonder what this can mean; whether it refers to tea or coffee, or not. I say it does refer to tea, and coffee (Times and Seasons, Vol. III, page 800). President Brigham Young on October 30, 1870 said:.:. I have heard it argued that tea and coffee are not mentioned therein; that is very true; but what were the people in the habit of taking as hot drinks when that revelation was given? Tea and coffee. We were not in the habit of drinking water very hot, but tea and coffee — the beverages in common use (Journal of Discourses 13:277). "WHOLESOME HERBS" In addition to specifying certain harmful products that man should not partake of, the revelation advises the use of grains, vegetables, fruits, and meat sparingly. It also mentions certain grains for the use of animals. These are known as the positive aspects of the Word of Wisdom. In these words, we find counsel: And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man — I Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving (D&C 89:10-11). It has been pointed out that "wholesome herbs" as used in Joseph Smith's day meant all plants and vegetables. "IN THE SEASON THEREOF" Some few readers of the Word of Wisdom assume that because herbs and fruits should be eaten "in the season thereof'? Modern methods of food preservation are disapproved. It is true that fruits should be eaten when ripe and vegetables when mature to obtain the most nutrition from them, but it is neither logical nor scientific to maintain that they should not be used at a time when they are not available in the fresh state if they are properly preserved. MEAT IS ORDAINED FOR MAN Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used, only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; And these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger (D&C 89: 12-15). Two years before this revelation was received the Lord said to forbid meat on religious grounds was not of him. Moreover, beasts and fowls were provided for man's food and raiment, but man was not to waste animal life by wanton killing. (Jbid., 49:18-21.) WHEAT FOR MAN Wheat is not the only grain for man, but it is the best, according to the Word of Wisdom. All grain is good for the food of man; as also the fruit of the vine; that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground—Nevertheless, wheat for man... (D&C 89: 16-17). Wheat has long been recognized by man as a good food, and nutritional science has found that this grain will promote bodily strength, greater resistance against infections, freedom from many deficiency and degenerative diseases, and endurance. ANIMAL FOODS Section 89 recommends that certain grains are of greater value to some animals than to others..-. And corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain (D&C 89:17). "AND ALL SAINTS WHO REMEMBER " The saints who remember to keep the commandments, includLESSON DEPARTMENT ing the Word of Wisdom, are promised that they will receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones. (D&C 89:18.) The two expressions, "health in their navel and marrow to their bones," are meaningful in the light of present-day knowledge. The unborn baby is nourished and may also be_ poisoned through the navel or umbilicus. Bone marrow manufactures the various blood cells needed for health. WALKING OBEDIENTLY There have been some who I have thought that by obediently living the Word of Wisdom the blessings promised in that revelation would come. It is true that if one lives a law, such as a health law, the benefits of fulfilling that law will be realized. On the other hand, the Latter-day Saint who lives the Word of Wisdom cannot expect to receive all of the promised blessings— hidden treasures of knowledge, wisdom, spirituality, and the destroying angel to pass them by —if he does not abide the other commandments. (D&C 89:18.) The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that though an individual fulfill one commandment and neglect others he will not receive salvation. I spoke to the people, showing them that to get salvation we must not only do some things, but everything which God has commanded.... It mattereth not whether the principle is popular or unpopular, I will always maintain a true principle, even if I stand alone in it (DHC VI:223). One of the distressing facts about breaking the Word of Wisdom by smoking and drinking alcoholic beverages, is the 


 effect it has on the individual, the home, and society. The First Presidency (President Heber J. Grant, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., David O. McKay) in their message of October 1942, made the following accusations against liquor: Drink brings cruelty into the home; it walks arm in arm with poverty; its companions are disease and plague; it puts chastity to flight; and it knows neither honesty nor fair dealing; it is a total stranger to truth; it drowns conscience; it is the bodyguard of evil; it curses all who touch it. Drink has brought more woe and misery, broken more hearts, wrecked more homes, committed more crimes, filled more coffins, than all the wars the world has suffered (Conference Report, October 1942, page 8.) President Grant drew attention to the consequences of young people breaking the Word of Wisdom, and then showed how frequently this kind of disobedience leads to far more serious sin. I want it understood — that the use of liquor and tobacco is one of the chief means in the hands of the adversary whereby he is enabled to lead boys and girls from virtue. Nearly always those who lose their virtue, first partake of those things that excite passions within them or lower their resistance and_ becloud their minds. Partaking of tobacco and liquor is calculated to make them a prey to those things which, if indulged in, are worse than death itself (Gospel Standards, page 55). Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve also pointed out the destructive influence of the cigarette in the life of the member of the Church. He declared that there is the feeling of uncomfortableness in being with people who don't smoke, so the smoker finds other people than those at Church with whom to associate. Since smoking is against one of the commandments and the smoker doesn't like to hear about the Word of Wisdom, he begins staying away from his Church meetings. These things lead to forgetting about praying and paying tithing. When the time comes to choose a life's companion the chances are that it will be someone in the smoking crowd. In other words, the cigarette has helped select the marriage partner. When the children arrive in the home, it is not likely that they will be taught to pray, go to Church, pay tithing, etc., because the parents are indifferent to these opportunities. (Conference Report, April 1948, pp. 152-56.) Disobedience to the commandments brings loss of the Holy Ghost, and the living of the commandments gives one that Spirit with all of its blessings against being deceived. "HIDDEN TREASURES" The Holy Ghost and the gifts which come from that Spirit will enlighten and give knowledge, protection, wisdom, peace and joy. These are some of the promised blessings of keeping the commandments. Here is what the Lord said: And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint (D&C 89: 19-20). ' What is the greatest treasure that one may have in this life to assist him on the road to exaltation? Knowledge that saves! ([bid.,.131:6; 1380:18-19.) In addition to knowing the principles of salvation, there is the important "hidden treasure" of knowing by the Holy Ghost that God lives, Jesus Christ is the Savior, that Joseph Smith is God's Prophet, and his successors are also holders of the keys of the Priesthood. Finally, the Lord promises that the destroying angel shall pass by the saints and not slay them, as he promised ancient Israel. (D&C 89:21; Exodus 12: 12-13, 29-30.) This promise does not mean that death will not come to the obedient. It is in the eternal plan that death comes to all. However, death may be bitter or sweet. (D&C 42:45-47.) He who has walked in obedience to the commandments shall receive the blessings of the angel of life—peace, mercy, hope, love, and to open the door of light and eternal life with its everlasting joys. (Conference Report, April 1925, pp. 61-62.) The First Presidency in 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT with reference to the Word of Wisdom, wrote: This declares the divine wisdom. It is God's law of health, and is binding upon each and everyone of us. We cannot escape its operation for it is based upon eternal truth. Men may agree or disagree about this word of the Lord; if they agree, it adds nothing; if they disagree, it means nothing. Beyond His word we cannot reach, and it is enough for every Latter-day Saint, willing and trying to follow divine guidance (''Message of the First Presidency,' October 3, 1943). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Why do you think the Lord said all of the blessings promised in the Word of Wisdom revelation would come to those who live all the commandments and not only the health laws of that revelation? 2. Indicate the harmful results of drinking intoxicating beverages even in moderation. 3. According to Elder Mark E. Petersen, what effect may cigarette smoking have upon a Latter-day Saint? 4. What is meant by the promise of hidden treasures? 5. What spiritual benefits are derived from keeping the Word of Wisdom? 6. Discuss: A person's belief does not alter the truth of a revelation.