[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 65 | Lesson | Work Meeting • Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness (a Continuation) Hazel | S. Cannon]
WORK MEETING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness (A Continuation) For Second Meeting, Apri! 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for September 1966 Objective: To show how scheduling of cleaning activities in the home can result in efficient accomplishment of work and in great family happiness. INTRODUCTION You will recall that in Lewis Carroll's delightful story, Alice in Wonderland, Alice and the queen had been "running like mad all day."" Suddenly Alice discovered that they were still under the same tree from which they had started, and expressed her surprise and consternation to the queen. The queen explained that in her country to "get any place" it was necessary to run "twice as fast." With our cleaning tasks in mind, as creative homemakers, we need to analyze our management practices in order that we 


 may keep from "running twice as fast'"' to "get any place." NEW DRILLS FOR OLD SKILLS In. The previous discussion on cleaning-management, planning and the merits of scheduling were stressed. It is important to formulate the details of a schedule. In what ways would re-scheduling or a new approach to an old task mean greater efficiency? Too meticulous or laborious methods should be shunned. Much of the homemaker's time is consumed in child care. Some must be reserved for rest, especially for mothers with young families; for unexpected guests; for interruptions; and for some family fun that has not been planned. You might work a schedule in this manner: Daily Schedule — "Pick-up" in various rooms of house; prepare and serve meals; wash dishes and care for work surfaces of kitchen cupboards and large equipment; sweep and dust kitchen and other rooms which require it; make beds; clean bathroom fixtures. A wise mother will train her family early to accept their responsibilities in maintaining a clean home. In addition to what must be done daily, time should be scheduled to take care of washing, ironing, sewing and mending, baking, and other necessary tasks, which the individual homemaker alone can determine. Weekly Schedule—This would consist of a plan for thorough cleaning of each room of the house. Change bed linens; clean all floors thoroughly, including deep vacuuming of rugs and carpets and washing and waxing of floors where necessary; move furniture and clean underneath, with the exception of very heavy pieces; give furniture special attention as_ to vacuuming over-stuffed pieces, cleaning, dusting etc.; dust difficult areas such as moldings, baseboards and wall and ceiling areas where necessary; remove finger marks from doors, frames, and light switches; give kitchen range and refrigerator extra 66 cleaning; take special care of plants. These jobs may be done on a particular day—or many homemakers prefer thoroughly to clean one room each day along with the daily schedule, rather than leaving it all for, say, Friday. It is felt that much satisfaction results from leaving Saturday for food shopping, food preparation for Sunday, and for family activities instead of reserving it for a weekly cleaning day. Monthly and/or Quarterly Schedule (depending on family set-up)—This schedule would include extra thorough cleaning such as washing windows; cleaning of over-stuffed furniture and cleaning and polishing of wood pieces; vacuuming draperies and/or washing and ironing curtains; cleaning cupboards and drawers; cleaning and waxing certain floors; special cleaning of accessories (especially lamps and light bulbs and light fixtures, bric-abrac, and pictures; and other necessary cleaning not included in the weekly schedule. These tasks are added to the weekly schedule as needed and as they can be included. Some homemakers like to clean or straighten a_ kitchen cupboard or drawer each morning as they wash the breakfast dishes. Semi-Annual Schedule—This is the deep, extra special cleaning of everything from basement to attic so familiar to the housekeeper. Again, many women prefer to do it "by the inch," and clean one room per month rather than devoting a period of time each spring and fall to the "orgy" known as housecleaning. To Discuss: Case Study 1. It is Saturday morning and the entire Price family is at home. Mrs. Price rises at seven o'clock. She prepares breakfast for herself and her husband, and they eat at about seven-thirty. She puts the dishes in the sink, returns to her bedroom, "picks-up," and makes the bed. By this time Timmy, age six, is in the kitchen shouting, "Mommy, I'm hungry. May I have pancakes for breakfast?" She makes the pancakes and serves them to Timmy. It is now eightten and she begins making the apple pies for the ward dinner that evening. Just as she is rolling out the pie dough, Mary, seventeen, enters the kitchen and says she guesses she can't eat because she must be at work at eight-thirty. Mrs. Price fixes her a glass of orange juice, which Mary drinks under protest. Just then twelveyear-old Ricky bounces in and reminds his mother that he must be at his scoutmaster's at nine o'clock and hopes that Timmy hasn't eaten all the pancakes. Mrs. Price hurriedly cooks pancakes for Ricky. Two more late risers come straggling in for breakfast between nine and ten. At eleven o'- clock the pies are in the oven, Mrs. Price has been called to the telephone three times about the ward dinner, and the dishes are still in the sink. She sinks wearily into a chair and then suddenly remembers that Carole is still upstairs, hasn't eaten breakfast, and was to have been at a Primary practice at ten-thirty. How might Mrs. Price have avoided her present dilemma? In what ways could scheduling have helped? Case Study 2. The glass storm door on the front door of the Brown residence is always finger-marked and soiled. Mrs. Brown is a busy homemaker with a family of five lovely children, but maintains a clean, orderly living room. How might callers interpret the dirty storm door? How could care of the storm door become part of the cleaning schedule? YOU ARE THE HOUSEWIFEENGINEER Today the home is considered a small industry and the homemaker is its production engineer. You will, therefore, want (at least to begin with) to block your schedule out on a calendar or a homemade time sheet, allowing so much time for the breakfast dishes, dusting the living room, etc. This is especially important for routine jobs which must be repeated each day. Women who work outside their homes should find a schedule very helpful in accomplishing their home responsibilities in the limited time at their disposal. LESSON DEPARTMENT WORK SCHEDULE POINTERS 1. In. Scheduling, retain the values that are important to your family. A husband should leave for work each morning with new courage to face the world, not feeling that he is being pitted against the time schedule. 2. Do not attempt too much work at one given time. Every hour should have some leeway. 3. Train each family member to "clean-up" and "pick-up" after himself. 4. Keep dirt and soil at a minimum always. (a) Sweep walks and porches often; (b) provide door mats outside doors and protective throw rugs inside doors; (c) protect floor and surfaces when a cleaning or cooking activity will result in splashing or spotting. It is easier to avoid unnessary work than to schedule a "clean-up." 5. Restrict eating to certain rooms or areas. Train children to be seated while eating. Do not allow them to "eat on foot." 6. Try to leave the house "pickedup" each time you go away and before going to bed at night. 7. Someone remarked, "Any man who has lived through housecleaning knows why hurricanes are given feminine names." Try to maintain some straight orderly rooms or areas during housecleaning time. SUMMARY No matter how thoughtfully a schedule is planned, there are times when it cannot be fully executed. Be sure that you always master the schedule and that it does not become your master. Make it work for you. In spite of the unforeseen, however, scheduling will give you the opportunity to control the physical aspects of your home, to create beauty, and to conquer inefficiency and discouragement. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. Discuss scheduling, assignments, and problems during your family home evening council sessions.