[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 73 | Lesson | Literature • Facing Death, Part I Robert | K. Thomas]
LITERATURE—The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 14—Facing Death—Part I (Text: ''Out of the Best Books"' pp. 420-39, 445-47, 473-82.) For Fourth Meeting, April 1966. In the Southern Hemisphere, July 1966 Objective: To consider death, viewed with relationship INTRODUCTION In this month's lesson we shall discuss two short stories and two poems. Each is concerned with a particular situation in which death must be faced. The first selection for study is "The Sick Child," by the French writer, Colette. "The Sick Child,'' by Colette When, at the conclusion of "The Sick Child,' the author suggests that recovery from illness is not without its loss, we are tempted to brush aside this comment in relief and gratitude for the young life saved. What if the night has "lost its magic" and has become ''meek and disenchanted"? The dreams of the child are only fever-induced fanto different life situations. Tasy, happily forgotten in health. Yet to discount this final point is to miss a significant part of a beautifully written story. The plot of 'The Sick Child" could hardly be simpler. A small boy, Jean, afflicted with infantile paralysis and expected to die, rallies to survive a crisis and begin his recovery. To reduce the story to this is to make clear how little it depends upon plot. Characterization is equally simple; "Lady Mother' is appropriately maternal; the nurse Mandore is bluffly affectionate. Even the precocious child is just that. What then accounts for the universal appeal of the story? To begin with, the theme of childhood sickness provides a 


 situation that most readers can identify with easily. But very little of this story has to do with Jean's actual illness. What is unforgettable is the heightened awareness of life that imminent death brings. Note how the intensity of the crisis is reflected in the culminating force of the images used: He had lost all sense of time passing so he could only judge by what he experienced. Often he believed that he was following a shadowy guide, one who had difficulty himself in finding the trail. Then he whimpered because he could not take the lead and, hearing his own wail of humbled pride or of utter exhaustion, he wheeled sharply, plunged through the wake of a cyclone, in search of a corner where he might find refuge. Now he was gripped with the agony of inhabiting a country where there were no corners, only a freezing current of dark air, a night on whose breast he was nothing more than a lost and weeping lad. Then he stood up, on legs that suddenly grew in number, that stretched to stilts through which pain cut like a scythe (Text, page 433; reprinted by permission of Jacques Chambrun, New York). All the words here seem rooted in reality—yet somehow not limited by the actual. As Jean approaches death, the familiar symbols and relationships by which his life is directed come apart. Sounds, for instance, are no longer loud or soft; they are "hunchbacked" or "with pointed snouts like weasels." Such language transcends conventional levels, yet seems "right.'"' No standard description appears capable of evoking sounds so intense that they take on shape as well as audibility. Colette seems to be saying that we appreciate the total richness and variety of life only as we come close to leaving it. Our lives are 74 often so regular that we standardize them, seeing routinely and acting predictably. How gratifying the most obvious manifestations of life appear to be when we are shaken out of our usual reactions. This story provides an exceptional opportunity for discussion of the multiple functions of lan- © guage in literary communication. We are so used to words stating that we often feel a little uneasy when they suggest or evoke instead of asserting. Note that Jean's moment of greatest physical crisis is suggested, not medically described, by the following: Now the boy who had been so gay and so spoiled, so at home in his loneliness, so wrapped up in his privileges as a fatherless invalid, knew that only a sad little sound as of crystal breaking, remained between him and a happiness whose hollow name he had still to learn: death (Text, page 432). By suggesting instead of stating, the author helps us see freshly and forces us to become part of whatever is being presented. If we are to get anything at all from reading that passing from life to death is "a sad little sound as of crystal breaking," we must try to involve ourselves in the mood which the author is providing for us. Assertive words usually serve as signposts which clearly point the way and require little more than mechanical following on our part. Suggestive words are more like compasses; they provide general direction, but leave the traveler to make his own path. "The Death of the Dauphin" by Alphonse Daudet The second selection for this month exploits a theme which is a very old one: death the leveller. It is probably appropriate that the selection we have chosen to illustrate this is French, for this idea has been especially prevalent in France. As early as the Thirteenth Century there were examples of what came to be known as the danse macabre or dance of the dead. While there were varied representations of this theme, they shared the basic idea that death is always lurking in the midst of life. Possibly reflecting the New Testament parable of the rich man who finally decided to enjoy the goods he had acquired, only to be told by the Lord that he was to die that very night (Luke 12:16-21), this concept served not only to reemphasize the vanity of earthly wishes; it also became a constant reminder that only death could put life into proper perspective. "The Death of the Dauphin" is really just a modern adaptation of this ancient theme. It even retains the pictorial quality of early danse macabre presentations. Note how the characters in this little story are grouped. We hardly need dialogue as we go from scene to scene— weeping maids of honor bowing on the stairs, robed doctors disputing just outside the sick room, the child's tutors at the door, the king in stoic isolation —all are focused on the bed in which the dying Dauphin lies. The pomp of this picture is in ironic contrast to the pale child on the white pillow., Daudet's style is appropriate to his tale. If much of what is presented is sketched in with vivid, contrasting strokes, the matter-of-fact reporting of what is happening heightens the conLESSON DEPARTMENT trast between regal life and common death. Yet Daudet manages to be tender where most writers in this vein are merely grim. The imperious, insensitive Prince is, at last, only a crying child seeking the comfort that nothing earthly can give. "Tithonus" by Alfred Lord Tennyson The final selections for the month examine special problems in relation to death. Tennyson's "Tithonus" chronicles the despair of one who cannot die, one who in the words of Job "longs for death, but it cometh not." The poem tells the story of Tithonus, son of the king of Troy, who was married to Aurora, goddess of the dawn. Tithonus was a mortal being, subject to ageing and death, and Aurora was immortal, beyond the effects of either ageing or death. At the request of Aurora, the gods granted Tithonus eternal life, but she neglected to request eternal youth for him. Therefore, as the years came and went, he grew forever older, forever more feeble, but could not die. In lamentation for his plight, Tithonus in the poem cries out, ""Me only cruel immortality consumes; I wither slowly in thine arms... Immortal age beside immortal youth." Later he pleads, "Let me go; take back thy gift." He would die, but cannot. Finally, according to the old legend, but beyond the limits of Tennyson's poem, Tithonus grew so withered and ugly that Aurora turned him into a grasshopper (Text, pages 476-477). For members of the Church, Tennyson's poem may have unusual meaning—particularly in the light of the beautiful sermon on "restoration" in Chapters 40 and 41 of Alma in The Book of Mormon. We speak so easily of death as a release—and surely it frees us from the pains that flesh is heir to—but the choices we have made, rise with us in an 


 after life. It is a bit sad to hear Tithonus lament his decaying body at length but dismiss the wrong choice which brought about his woe in a line or two. How difficult it is to see that the essence of tragedy lies not in how death comes but in the choices which may have governed one's life. To those who see this life as part of an eternal plan, death is not so much release as it is progression. If we accept this view, it is not hard to believe that death is to be feared only where one has not prepared himself for the accounting which death exacts. "Auto Wreck"' by Karl Shapiro 'Auto Wreck" concerns itself with death which seems not only premature but needless, and is a powerful indictment of man's inability to solve his basic problems. "Auto Wreck" gives a focus which is personal for most of us. In fact, part of Shapiro's point is that the violence of death by automobile accident is so commonplace that we are becoming inured to it. We slow down momentarily as we pass the scene of a wreck; we may even hope aloud that no one was badly hurt. But, once well past the flashing lights and sirens, we resume the speed and _ driving habits which may unite us with total strangers in the grim intimacy of death. One of the ways in which the author has tried to keep us aware of our collective guilt and shared danger, is to develop the poem in terms of an injured victim. The bell of the ambulance beats like a heart; the flare pulses like a cut artery; the throats of the onlookers are 76 "tight as tourniquets,' and the horror of the scene holds those who gather as if their feet were "bound in splints." Yet Shapiro does not rely on this device alone to make us feel our identification with those directly involved. The bell of the ambulance tolls as well as beats, and in its tolling we hear echoes of John Donne's famous sermon in which he reminds us that we needn't send to find out for whom the funeral bell tolls, for when any man dies, humanity is diminished, and as part of humanity we also suffer. There is nothing so ordered as rhyme in "Auto Wreck." Many of the lines scurry, then pause, only to resume their speed once more, and we realize that the author is letting us drive through the poem as we approach, circle around, and then accelerate on past the accident. The final stanza, however, transcends the specific accident in trying to fit the particular into the whole—but the poem ends in despair. Other forms of death may be rationalized, if not justified, but the carnage which is becoming an accepted fact of travel by automobile seems hopeless of solution. Such death becomes a tragic commentary upon modern man's enslavement of a technology which is at once his pride and his destruction. Questions for Discussion 1. How convincing is Colette's suggestion that life must be jarred from its usual modes if we are really to appreciate it? 2. Under what conditions might the universality of death serve to unite people? 3. To what extent do you think Tithonus has recognized his problem in the last lines of Tennyson's poem?