[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 51 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Holladay Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Third Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers at Luncheon Party June 2, 1965 Selma Wall (at left), eldest visiting teacher, presented with gift by Diane F. Emery, youngest visiting teacher. Maurine B. Folsom, President, Holladay Stake Relief Society, reports: "Visiting teachers of the Holladay Third Ward Relief Society, who had achieved a perfect record of visiting all of the homes for the past two years, were honored at a luncheon party. The youngest visiting teacher, Diane F. Emery, age nineteen, presented a gift to Sister Wall in behalf of the organization. More than half of the visiting teachers received special awards because they did not miss one month of teaching the entire year." Central German Mission, Dusseldorf Branch Displays Quilt at Mission Relief Society Conference June 17, 1965 Left to right: Karin Schliewen; Adelheid Fritsch; Grete Kessler; Anna Marie Kutschke, President, Central German Mission Relief Society; Emma Lange; Ruth W. Benson, Supervisor, Central German Mission Relief Society; Elizabeth Priestnitz, President, Diisseldorf Branch Relief Society. Sister Kutschke reports: "The spirit of our first Relief Society Mission Conference was wonderful, and all returned to their branches with a feeling of gratitude for the Priesthood and the blessings of Relief Society, and with a greater determination to improve their organizations and help to bring others into activity. The theme of the conference was 'Strengthen the ties that bind us together.' "The Relief Society chorus, under the direction of Christina C. Van Hulten, furnished the music for the first session. Martha Otto was honored as being the eldest Relief Society sister, having been a member for forty years; and Marta Tobeck was honored as the youngest, having been a member fourteen days. Many lovely handmade articles were on display, and some were demonstrated. The Diisseldorf Branch displayed their first quilt, which was also the first one made by Relief Society in the mission. Of interest, also, was the style show, with lovely dresses and children's clothing, as well as a great variety of aprons. The film 'The Awakening' was shown, and the conference ended with a fine spiritual testimony meeting." Sister Benson comments: "Last Sunday (Aug. 30) was a great day in our mission. We had our first two new buildings dedicated. The sisters are thrilled with their new Relief Society rooms." French Mission, Riyadh (Saudi Arabia) Branch Relief Society Left to right: Linda Bell, social science class leader; Irene Besner, theology class leader; Shayla DeMille, President; Carol Warner. In a letter giving information regarding this branch of the French Mission, President Cecil E. Hart, reports: "We are in regular contact with the group through Brother Melvin J. Stanford, branch leader of the group... And they do come within our... Guidance." Sister Besner, who submitted the picture, tells us that the members of the Riyadh Branch are "adding another country to the list which have Relief Society organizations. Our group hold our meetings in our own homes." 


 Weber Heights Stake (Ogden, Utah), Uintah Ward Relief Society Participates in Stake Dressmaking Project Picture taken June 24, 1965 Front row, beginning fourth from the left; ward leaders: Madaline Pringle, Secretary-Treasurer; Kathryn Halverson, Work Counselor; Sharon Wright, Education Counselor; Marian Stewart, President; Carna Miller, dressmaking chairman; Camille Huggins, work meeting leader. Weber Heights stake leaders: Hilda Halverson, President; Ruth Jackson, Work Counselor, and Gene Hillyard, work meeting leader. Hilda Halverson reports: "Following the December 1964 work meeting lesson, "Personal Appearance and Its Influence on Happiness," a stake-wide dressmaking project was launched. All nine of the Relief Societies in our stake participated in this dressmaking project with enthusiasm. Forty-two sisters in the Uintah Ward made dresses, and, although this was not the largest number of dresses made in a ward, it was the greatest percentage of Relief Society members, because Uintah is the smallest ward in our stake. "The purpose of the project was to insure that the sisters became acquainted with the rudiments of basic sewing, and to add a new, attractive dress to each sister's wardrobe. Dresses were worn and modeled in the April work meetings." Santa Rosa Stake (California), Greenbrae-San Rafael Singing Mothers Present Concert May 7, 1965 Standing, front, left: Joan Smith, chorister, Greenbrae Ward; right: Patricia Russell, pianist, San Rafael Ward. Beulah C. Gwynn, President, Santa Rosa Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of thirty Singing Mothers from our two southern wards presented a concert on May 7th for the members and friends of the Santa Rosa Stake. These sisters were highly trained, having practiced for many months as well as daily for two weeks before the concert. The program consisted of fifteen numbers by the Singing Mothers and violin and piano solos by guest artists Polly Estes Holbrook and Juanita Cunningham, nonmembers of the Church. "These sisters also sang for our May open-house event, and for the stake quarterly conference." Alameda Stake (Pocatello, Idaho), Seventeenth Ward Visiting Teachers Achieve Ten Years of 100 Per Cent Visiting Teaching June 1, 1965 Left to right: Front row, Della Packer; Crilla Williams; Tura Hadley; Nola Duerdon; Florist Dawson; Mavis Kirkman; Betty Karlson. Second row, Johanna Fowler; Jean Burpee; Mary Redington; Della Jolley; Ella Mae Hunter; Almira Allen; Lucille Weight; Vera Chatterton. Third row, Hazel Ranstrom; Luella Hansen; Margaret Satterfield; Lena Bauer; Wilma Anderson; Vera Prouse; Mary Evans; Stella Price. Back row, Abbie Rawlins; Anna Ranstrom; Merna Rady; Florence Larsen; Vida Merrill; Juanita Fiala; Helen Evans; Louise Perkins; Beth Bloxham; Frances Walters. Wilma Myers, President, Alameda Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teachers of the Seventeenth Ward have achieved a 100 per cent record through ten years. Many of these sisters have completed the ten years. On June 1, 1965, the visiting teachers were honored, and each was presented a picture in appreciation of the wonderful work they have completed and are now doing." 54 «Lo stat o RAO II > prenren A REN Nee Soe A ATTN 5 PILING JANUARY 1966 Highland Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Crystal Heights Ward Visiting Teachers Honored at Closing Social June 2, 1965 Left to right: Adeline Dunn; Beatrice Cobb; Mary Cottrell; Carol Johnson, President, Crystal Heights Ward Relief Society. Eva A. Sipkema, President, Highland Stake Relief Society, reports: "The highlight of the closing social of the Crystal Heights Ward was the special recognition given to the visiting teachers who had served the most years. Sister Dunn had served forty-seven years, and Sister Cobb had served forty-three years. They were each presented a Relief Society pin. Sister Cottrell had served sixty-one years and was given a lovely piece of jewelry. Sister Cottrell had been honored previously by Highland Stake Relief Society as the visiting teacher who had given the most years of service in the stake. At that time she was presented with a lovely Relief Society necklace. She has recently celebrated her eightieth birthday, but still visits her district faithfully each month. Atlanta Stake (Georgia) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference May 30, 1965 Seated, front, right: Jane Turvairlle, chorister, who trained and conducted the group; seated on the bench, next to Sister Turvairlle: Patricia Googe, organist; second row, second from the left: First Counselor Verna Uivens; third row, fourth from the left: Barbara Blake, Magazine representative; eighth from the left on the same row: Dorothy Robinson, Secretary-Treasurer. Stake Relief Society President is Joyce P. Selin. Former President Gladys C. Garner submitted the picture. Rarotonga Mission (Cook Islands) Relief Society Holds Bazaar May 15, 1965 Left to right: Inez S. Moody, Supervisor, Rarotonga Mission Relief Society; Ngametua Papera, President, Avarua Branch Relief Society; Araia Mateara, President, Arorangi Branch; Lucile R. Jones, President, Rarotonga Mission Relief Society; Pauline Mitchell, First Counselor, Avarua Branch; Ngametua Tuaputa, First Counselor, Arorangi Branch; Pativai Mataio, work meeting leader. Sister Jones reports: "Our mission is in its infancy, just five years old. We are very happy with the results of our mission bazaar, and with the wonderful way our sisters rallied to make it such a success. Five branches, representing three islands, united to make this possible: Rarotonga (Avarua, Ngatangiia, and Arorangi Branches), Aitutaki, and Mangaia. "A wide assortment of articles was attractively displayed, including quilts, feather fans, mats, children's clothing, cushions, aprons, native baskets, brooms, and assorted foods. The bazaar was a complete sell-out, and we collected approximately $280, which was excellent for our mission. Almost all of the proceeds were eagerly turned over for the beautiful new Arorangi chapel, which has just been completed. Everyone was delighted with the success of the bazaar, and a spirit of true sisterhood prevailed." 56 Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 71 — The Word of Wisdom — A Life-Giving Revelation (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89:4-21) For First Meeting, April 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for September 1966 Objective: To recognize the prophetic element in the Word of Wisdom, understand its positive teachings and appreciate the spiritual blessings available to the individual who keeps the commandments therein. BACKGROUND Section 89, known as the Word of Wisdom, was received in 1833 as a revelation from God. The Lord gave his people counsel in this revelation that they might not be deceived by the adversary. It has been demonstrated by science that alcohol, tobacco, tea, and coffee are not good for man, as stated by the Lord. The Word of Wisdom is prophetic in revealing that "conspiring men" will seek to deceive mankind. The literal fulfillment of this prophecy further confirms Joseph Smith as a prophet of the Lord. A NOTABLE PROPHECY In order to prevent the Latterday Saints from being deceived, the Lord forewarned them against the wiles of men.

Specifically given in the revelation on the 58 Word of Wisdom is the following prophecy of the last days: — Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation (D&C 89:4). President David O. McKay describes some of the methods that are used to deceive mankind: "Evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men. " The purport of that impressed me in the twenties and the thirties of this century. I just ask you men tonight to recall the methods employed by certain tobacco interests to induce women to smoke cigarettes. You remember how _insidiously they launched their plan. First, by saying that it would reduce weight. They had a slogan: "Take a cigarette instead of a sweet." Later, some of us who like the theatre, noticed that they would have a young lady light the gentleman's cigarette. Following this a woman's hand would be shown on billboards lighting or taking a cigarette. A year or two passed and soon they were brazen enough to show the lady on the screen or on the billboard smoking a cigarette. I find here a clipping which I set aside in the early thirties, which corroborates this idea. This is 1931: "It is well known that the cigarette manufacturers are after the young women and girls, now. They say there are twenty-five million of these in the United States, and if they can popularize smoking among them, they will be able to increase their sales from three billion, six hundred million dollars annually to six billion dollars. This is their claim and their aim." Now, it is common to see beautiful young women depicted on billboards, and in the popular journals advertising certain brands of cigarettes. "Last year three of the large cigarette manufacturers, we are informed, spent fifty-four million dollars in advertising their wares. This is probably a greater outlay than has ever before been spent to popularize any kind of merchandise...." I may be wrong, but I thought I saw an indication recently that conspiring men now have evil designs upon our youth. Keep your eyes and ears open, to observe if they are not taking the same steps now to get our young men as they did to entice women to use that vile weed (Conference Report, October 1948, pp.