[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 79 | Home | Uncle Time and Auntie Inclination Vilate | R. McAllister]
McAllister g We didn't call them Uncle Time and Auntie Inclination to their faces. We used these affectionate, if dubious, nicknames only when we spoke of them out of earshot. It was the easiest way of identifying this loved couple, so one uncles, great-aunts and great-uncles, and the so-called "aunts" and "uncles" which every child has, who are no blood relation at all, but are friends of his parents—to which latter class these two belonged. But to get back to the nicknames: Whenever Auntie Inclination would ask Uncle Time to do any special little chore around the place, he would invariably answer, "Yes, M'love, when I get time." And Auntie would just as invariably mutter under her breath, so he couldn't hear (because she would not offend him for the world!) "And inclination!" "The flower-garden wants hoeing," she would remind him. "Yes, M'love, when I get time." He always called her M'love. "And inclination," she would whisper resignedly. "The screen door needs new paint," or "J think you should write to your brother Tom," or "How about seeing Attorney Jones about getting our will drawn up?" she would suggest. And we knew Uncle Time would do it when he got time—and inclination! We could never see where Uncle was crowded for time. He could spend days on end off fishing. He could hob-nob for hours with neighbor Duncan over the pasture fence. He could sit in the shade and cut little sticks into shavings, not making anything, just whittling. He could spin yarns with the boys at the corner grocery far into the night. So we concluded that the reason the weeds took the yard, the paint curled on the screen door, the letter never reached brother Tom, and Uncle would probably die intestate, was not really lack of time, but lack of inclination. Deep in his heart he probably knew this. But it is so much easier to blame time rather than inclination for our procrastination and omissions! Time is something outside ourselves, while inclination is 4 part of us. Who would not rather "pass the buck" than admit his own failure? So we find people all around us (and we do it ourselves if we have the courage to admit it), who continually get their semantics mixed up.

They don't have time to 80 to church, to teach a class, to work on the welfare farm, to visit a shut-in, to read the scriptures OF other good books, to serve in a civic capacity, to write to a loved one, to develop their talents, to do a hundred and one simple acts of service that would bring joy to others, and, incidentally, to themselves. Yet some people, with the same twenty-four-hour day, find or make time for such things. We seem to have time for what we really want to do. Time is a great gift. But it seems increasingly clear that of the two, inclination is the greater, for it determines what we do with our time. Fortunately, though time is static, inclination ls something we can enlarge. It is in our power to control. The people we admire for their accomplishments and service have succeeded through directing their inclinations. For many of them, the obligations of duty have imposed on their time, it is true. But like a persistent tree that grows in a rock, their inclinations have been strong enough to triumph. For this they merit and receive our praise. It would seem appropriate when we include the familiar phrase in our prayers, "Help us to use our time and talents to advantage," hat we add the more important request that he help us also to develop a set of wholesome and sturdy inclinations. 719