[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 34 | Special Feature | The 1966 March of Dimes George | P. Voss]
[The 1966 March of Dimes George P. Voss]

She was noted for her scholastic record, and for her accuracy and speed in accomplishing whatever she set out to do. Elizabeth was proud of this mother and daughter, and she was happy to learn that Lisa, an only child, would be married in the fall to a young lawyer for 


 whom she had been working during the past year. It was well known in the city that this young lawyer came from a very successful family that occupied an important place in the social life of the city. The letter lay on the porch swing beside Elizabeth, still unopened as her thoughts turned to Lisa. She hoped that being in such a prominent family would not change Lisa; she had been reared well, but her family could hardly be called wealthy in the material things of the world. Elizabeth carefully opened the letter: The last paragraph of the letter read: Lisa's fiancé will be in the East on her birthday, and her father will be away on business, also. It is unfortunate but there is not any way that they will be able to change their plans. Therefore, Lisa and I thought that we would spend that week end with you. She feels that this will be the last time that she will be able to be with you for awhile. If this meets with your approval, and no other member of the family plans to visit you at this time, then we will come. Let me know as soon as you can. Love, Camille. Elizabeth, widowed for a number of years, was excited and happy. She went into the house and immediately answered Camille's letter. It would be pleasant to visit with Camille and Lisa again. It had been such a long time since they had spent a week end with her. Elizabeth gazed about the living room. She must busy herself cleaning before the arrival of Camille and Lisa. The sun cast warm rays about the room, making the worn spots in some of the older furniture 36 even more noticeable. It had been such a long time since Elizabeth had bought any new furniture. She smiled to herself. Somehow she couldn't make up her mind to trade the old furniture in on something new. Slowly Elizabeth walked over to the old china closet in the corner of the room. This she should clean first thing. All of the old dishes must be washed.