"J hope so, but I'll come back in the morning and leave the children with Mother Martin again if I may." "Oh, do," replied Anna. "She worries so because she can't come out and help, and caring for the children consoles her some. I'm sure we can get rid of most of the pests tomorrow.": The next morning they were up before sunrise and on their way to the scene. But the crickets were even thicker than the day before. All day long the men worked digging more trenches, and the women, the boys, and the girls drove swarms of the devouring pests into the water where they were drowned. But still conditions grew worse. At sundown the men laboriously gathered up their tools while a weary group of disheartened women collected for a few moments before going home. Dejectedly they surveyed the ravaged surroundings. "T can't see that we've done a bit of good yet," scolded prim Mrs. Lawrence. "And one of those miserable crickets has eaten a hole right in my skirt, and goodness knows when I'll ever get another one. Henry's sister promised to bring me one out with her this fall but it looks as if J'll need one before then, and I know nobody around here's got an extra one." "T should say not," replied Emily. "You're lucky to have such a good one. My pretty green woolen skirt was ruined when we crossed the A DESERT CONQUEST river and the water came up into the wagon. It shrank so I never could wear it again. [lowever, it did make a nice suit for Danny. But it's food we need to worry about now, not clothes." "Well, if I must starve to death," continued Mrs. Lawrence, "I would like to have something decent to be buried in." "Well, if you die before Mr. Lawrence's sister gets here with the new skirt I will see that you are buried in something pretty," promised Anna Martin. Slowly Emily climbed onto the wagon. "I don't think we can ever in the world drown all these crickets." "No, replied Will soberly, "there are too many now to do that. We'll have to try something else tomorrow." The following day they tried scattering reeds over the fields and setting fire to them, and though thousands of the crickets were burned there were millions left, and the same efforts to exterminate the devastating pests also ruined the growing grain. Emily lay awake far into the night thinking. Was it in vain they had left their family and homes and come west? Had they — brought Danny and Joe out here in the desert to starve? They had come for the avowed purpose of worshiping their God according to His will. How could He desert them now? She said nothing to Will for she did not want to add to his worries, but her heart went out in prayer for deliverance from this terrible plague. All through the night she had horrifying dreams of crickets infesting their little home and devouring them all. The next day was no better. The destructive horde spread in black 403 legions over the neighboring fields. A messenger was sent to tell the nearest emigrants of the predicament and ask them to use their food sparingly. All that evening Will sat before the open fireplace with his head in his hands, saying nothing. It was the first time Emily had seen him give up. She tried to think of something to console him. But what could you do? You could not fight them, you could not kill them. They were like an army with unnatural power, against which human effort had no effect. For the next two days conditions were the same. The sixth day was Sunday and had been set aside as a day of fasting and prayer, for only God could save them from starvation now. Emily and Will took the boys to the meeting and there with their neighbors they unitedly offered prayers for their deliverance. Their leader was a powerful man of great faith. He recalled to their minds the time their lives had been spared during a prairie fire in Nebraska, when Indians had attacked their camp, and again when many had been stricken with fever in the mountains, and he admonished them to have faith now. Emily took comfort from his words and her heart was filled with gratitude to the God who had spared their lives in the journey over the plains. He would not let them perish now. Following the meeting people stood around in serious little groups discussing the situation. The ground looked as if it had been scorched. There was less than half a crop left and another day of this wanton destruction and all would 'be lost. The hopping black horde continued devouring the leaves of the gardens. The sprouts in the fields, the dreams and hopes of the pioneers, and there 404 was nothing they could do. A few people returned to their homes. Later, while those remaining were helplessly looking on, a great cloud appeared in the western sky. Rapidly it grew in size as it drew nearer. Emily took the children and sought out Will in preparation for returning home before the storm should break. Then suddenly everyone knew that it was not a storm for there was a strange noise with it, and immediately the sky was covered with flocks of white gulls, filling the air with their hungry cries. Winging their way overhead they settled down on the half ruined fields.: A new fear clutched at Emily's heart. Here was another enemy come to complete the destruction of the growing grain. Her fear turned to resentment. She clenched her fists. How could one have faith in a God who permitted such ravagings. She turned her back. Better they had given up their religion and remained in Iowa than come out here to die of starvation. Suddenly a wild joyous cry from RELIEF Society MAGAZINE the assembled on-lookers interrupted her rebellious thoughts. Turning, she was astonished. The sea gulls had pounced upon the crickets and were devouring them. These hungry birds had come not to eat the grain but to prey upon the destroyers. They gorged themselves. The people gazed on in amazement. Filled with such fast and hearty eating many disgorged and feasted again. Slowly but surely the crickets were disappearing. Emily silently bowed her head in shame and regret for having doubted. All day long the strange performance continued, the white birds contending with the black crickets, while everyone in the valley came out to watch and to rejoice. By dusk the conquest had been won. The pests had been miraculously exterminated and in the evening the sea gulls slowly flew back to their island home. It was with tears in her eyes that Emily stood, her hand in Will's, watching the flight of the white winged deliverers, while the wonderment in the upturned faces of Danny and Joe evidenced the faith of a future generation.