The Sheep Queen of Idaho Emma Yearian By Cora Carver Ritchie
Some people are human dynamos charged to an intensely high-power and naturally recharge all things with which they come in contact. Such a human dynamo is, "The Sheep Queen of Idaho," Mrs. Emma Yearian, the only Representative of Lemhi Co. in Idaho's State capital.
Mrs. Yearian was raised in southern Illinois but had read about the west, and with her husband answered the call of the great and glorious outdoors. Back in 1887 Mr. Yearian started his cattle ranch in Salmon City, 30 miles from any town. Wagons and horses were the only means of travel. Modern conveniences were not dreamed of. He was successful in a large measure, but Mrs. Yearian felt the cattle game was too slow. The ups and downs of the business is a great chance in any land. Mrs. Yearian's advice and help was noted by the men who worked with Mr. Yearian. One day she heard an eastern buyer say, "It's too bad Mrs. Yearian is a woman; if she were a man and lived in a different environment she'd make her mark in the world."
This inspired her to start the business that has earned her the title of "Sheep Queen of Idaho." She is well known not only in her own state but throughout the United States, and even abroad. She says of that time, "I decided I could run business as well as some men and better than most." She thought of sheep. Lemhi was a cattle country, her husband was a cattle man, prior grazing rights were in full force. She knew all this but the harder the task the more reason to tackle it.
"An uphill business it was those first years," she reminisced. "To get grazing land was the hardest task. Mysteriously whole herds were driven off, herders deserted, poor production followed lack of care of ewes and dozens of other drawbacks made it seem almost impossible at times. I certainly have been discouraged, but wouldn't give up for anything. Then, too, it takes vast sums to finance sheep. My husband predicted failure, added to this I knew nothing about sheep."
She bought 12,000 ewe lambs at $2.75 per head in her first deal. She says, "They might fool me on a ewe but not on a lamb." That first year she sheared 6 lbs. of wool per lamb and raised the ewes for breeding purposes. Her increase was good. She was fully launched in the sheep business. She declares today her greatest help has been gained from emulating those who were most successful in the sheep game. Spite, prejudice, careless herders, drought, lack of range, added to her losses, yet year by year her business grew.
In the beginning of the World War she ran 10,000 head. The government asked the producers to keep all breeding sheep, as a result at the end of the war she had an overstock on her hands. Then came the slump, coupled with a great drought; many would have given up, but not Mrs. Yearian. She says, "I have slowly but surely been picking up ever since."
"The greatest thrill of my life," she says, "came, when at dusk, I stood alone on the platform at the stockyards and watched my first train load of sheep go thundering by to market, and to know they were mine, all mine, and I had done it all myself. There were 5,800 sheep with dogs, herders, wagons, outfits, and all mine! I had won."
She has worked 20 years in the sheep business. Undoubtedly one reason for her success is her perseverance. She says, "I went into the sheep business not for fancy breeding stuff or to get a name, but to earn our bread and butter. I find you can't have your cake and eat it too, so the best way is to make up your mind to get the thing you want and stay with it and be willing to do without other more alluring things!"
Mrs. Yearian has done without. Money that would have made life easy, she put into more land. She bought a forest reserve adjacent to her land. She put extra money into more sheep, more outfits, and after years of sacrifice her labors have been rewarded.
She has built one of the most outstanding homes in the country—a huge house of good lines and craftsmanship built to stand for ages, modern in every way, with her own electric light and water system. It is a veritable estate and as far as the eye can see she is really queen of all she surveys. Her husband acclaims her success and declares sheep are about as good as cattle after all.
She says, "With my sheep money, I have been able to send my six children to the best colleges in the east and west and their education is a pleasure and pride to me."
While some may think she has missed the big things of life, she does not. She smiled as she said, "One thing so fine about my business has been the contact I have had with the men and women of the world who have done the really worth while things in life."
In a recent trip to Europe with the Business and Professional Woman's Club on a good will tour, she was accorded the highest honors. Wherever she went she was besieged by reporters. The leader tried to tell who's who of the group and shouts for the sheep woman of Idaho assailed her. Mrs. Yearian had to tell them about her business. She received notices in Italian, Swiss, Holland, London, Paris and many other foreign papers, as being the outstanding woman in the whole group.
As Lemhi County's only representative, she has amply filled her place. Naturally cattle and sheep grazing, water and taxation bills are of intense interest to her. She has worked untiringly to help cut down taxation on account of the farmer being burdened with so much overhead. The House of Representatives listened to Mrs. Yearian's opinion on the Branding and Butcher's Bill. She told of the crimes committed by outlaws changing brands, loading cattle in trucks and having them in the markets before their owners were aware of the theft. She doubled up her hand, brought it down on the bench with a loud crash, saying, "This bill shall pass," and pass it did without a single "Nay."
Her help to the farmer, cattleman and producer all over the west will be felt. Her knowledge comes first hand. Her vision is clear and unbiased, her wisdom sound and her determination steadfast. She is chairman of the State Library committee and is on the highways, livestock and mining committees. She is really a royal queen. She naturally commands homage. Her womanhood is her queenship. Her splendid character and clean life and great business success have made the men love and respect her. She says, "In all my dealing with men and hiring hundreds, never have I had one word of disrespect from any one of them, from the foreign basque to the biggest eastern buyer."
Her trust in God points the way to her successful life. "I feel that each one of us has a certain duty to perform—a place to fill—that a Divine Power is guiding us and that just so long as we are willing to be guided and work for the good of mankind, just so long shall we be prospered."