Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi By Vilate Elliot
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was born in 1868 in Western India, he is a Hindu of the Jain faith. The term Mahatma, by which he is known, means Great Soul. It is a title of reverence conferred upon him. Gandhi's father was a chief official in his native state, he came from a family of well-to-do middle class people. At eighteen Gandhi went to London to study law, he passed his examinations, and was admitted to the bar and returned home to practice, but he disliked the methods used by most of the lawyers of his time.
He was called to South Africa. Previously some one hundred and fifty thousand Indians had moved to South Africa; they were in difficulty with the native people and called upon Gandhi to defend their legal rights. Gandhi remained in Africa for twenty years; he says it was the turning point in his life. He believes religion is service and his should be service to India—this would bring self realization and a knowledge of God. He practiced his doctrines of non-violence and passive resistance in Africa, and in the end was victorious. These events shaped his career and his philosophy of life.
It must be remembered his spiritual roots go back to Indian religious traditions which are derived from Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. The cardinal tenet of these religions is a reverence for all life, sexual restraint and abstaining from intoxicants. A major influence in his life came from two women—his mother and his wife.
Gandhi became comparatively wealthy, while he was still a young man. He had an income of $20,000 a year but he gave it all away and took a vow of poverty. He says his lifelong quest is for self-realization and a desire to identify himself with his poor and downtrodden fellow countrymen. He wears a loin cloth because so many Indians cannot afford to wear more. The British judge who sentenced him to imprisonment said, "Those who differ from you in politics look upon you as a man of high ideals and of noble and saintly life."
His philosophy is service to truth as he sees it. It includes: (1) Ahinsa, which means love, (2) Chastity, (3) Restraint of the palate, (4) Abstaining from the possession of things for themselves, (5) One's bread must be earned by the sweat of the brow, (6) Services to his neighbors is man's primary duty, (7) Belief in equality of all mankind, (8) Belief in the equality of the world's great faiths, (9) Fearlessness.
Professor Wadia says that Gandhi's greatest service to India is teaching them to conquer fear. The people have been paralyzed with fear—fear of police, fear of the military, fear of public opinion, fear of social ostracism, fear of ghosts, fear of shadows; political and social reforms have been paralyzed from fear.
Gandhi says there is only one God for us all, whether we find Him through the Bible, Koran, Gita or Talmud,—He is a God of love and truth. He says he does not hate the British, he likes them but dislikes their system in India. He has many influential friends in England, among them Ramsay McDonald, Sir Gilbert Murray, Josiah Wedgewood and a score of others.
Dr. Sherwood Eddy, an English member of the National congress held at Lahore, India, says, "I went to say good bye to Gandhi, the multitude thronged about upon him, I saw men's faces alight with a love I have never seen for any other human being."
One day a week Gandhi devotes to uninterrupted silence, he meditates all day. His six working days are spent thus—prayer at four a. m., work until nine, bath, breakfast of goat's milk and fruit, more work, an hours nap at noon, spinning until five p. m., more goat's milk and fruit, a walk, prayer at seven, meditation until ten when he retires.
Gandhi's house is extremely plain; it is surrounded by a simple garden, a few trees, a little grass and a few flowers. The inside is simpler still. His own room contains nothing but a little table about ten inches high, this is his writing desk at which he works squatting on the floor.
Spinning is his favorite pastime. Gandhi says, "Every Indian peasant must spin, it is through the spinning wheel that I keep in touch with the poorest of the poor and through them with God."
Gandhi favors more liberty for women, he says, "The barbaric custom of purdah, which prevents a woman from showing her face to any man except her father and her husband must be stopped."
Gandhi has no bodyguard, he says, "God alone keeps vigil over me." "The day that my inner voice tells me my country no longer needs me I will starve myself to death * * * the day India abandons the principle of non-violence, I shall let my fragile body perish."
This picture of Gandhi shows us a mixture of humility, asceticism and passionate sincerity which makes him a difficult person to be dealt with by hardheaded British. While he is gentle, modest, unassuming, courteous, and abhors violence, yet he has stirred three hundred million people to revolt and has shaken the foundations of the British Government.
The five rules of Mahatma Gandhi are:
1. The vow of truth.
2. The vow of non-violence,—you must not be angry with the unjust, you must love them. Oppose tyranny. Do not hurt the tyrant, conquer him by love, suffer punishment even unto death for disobeying his will. Sacrifice and willing suffering is the spirit of Ahinsa.
3. The vow of non-stealing. It is theft if we use articles we do not really need.
4. The control of the Palate. Regulate and purify the diet, leave off food that may tend to stimulate animal passions.
5. Vow of self-control. It is not enough not to look upon a woman with a lustful eye. Animal passion must be controlled, so it will not even be in thought.
6. Vow of non-acquisition. It is not enough not to be acquisitive, but it is necessary not to keep anything which may not be absolutely necessary for our bodily wants. Think constantly of simplifying life.
Gandhi has taught the Hindu to endure blows from police and to fold their arms and take their blows without protest. He is breaking down religious and race prejudices, Hindu, Moslem, Christian, Jew and Parsee lie side by side in the hospitals all suffering from the wounds of police, eating from the same dishes and drinking from the same vessels. He has also taught them to boycott all British made goods such as machinery, automobiles, drugs, radios and above all English made cottons.
Gandhi's methods are a two-edged sword of non-cooperation and non-violence. Where force would lose, gentleness wins. He symbolizes the terrific might of meekness. One of his first announcements after being released from prison was that the campaign of civil disobedience against British rule must go on.
Caste originally meant color, it is said the Aryans erected it in remote ages to protect their people from the earlier races in India. The Aryans were fair haired and blue-eyed. The primitive races were very dark so in this respect the Aryans were the first white race to conquer India.
There are four castes:
1. Brahman or priestly caste.
2. Warrior caste.
3. Caste of traders and tillers of the soil. These three castes are known as the Twice-Born and are entitled to wear the Sacred Thread.
Sudra or service caste—this is divided into the clean and unclean because of the kind of work they do. The unclean are known as the untouchables who are the scavengers of the cities. Untouchable means a state of existence lived out in abject and hopeless serfdom imposed by Hindu religious custom on sixty million human beings attached as slaves to the Hindu people of the three higher castes. Gandhi describes the system as the "Shame of Hinduism —The hydra-headed monster," It is said to have originated with the Brahman priests thousands of years ago. In India every fourth person is a slave compared to which our American negro slavery was freedom. The general belief is that the Untouchables pollute all things, they pollute the well from which they draw water, their breath pollutes the air, their shadow pollutes the earth on which they walk, they are forbid423 den religious teaching lest their lips defile the Word of God. These terrible accusations arouse no resentment in the minds of the victims because they themselves believe untouchability is incurred by sin; through thousands of rebirths they must expiate their sin. Gandhi has denounced the system, he says it is a snake with a thousand mouths through each of which it shows its poisonous fangs. He would free them from this oppressien. He says India is unfit for home rule as long as it keeps in bondage one-fifth of its population. India is a land of terrible contrasts,—luxury, riches, beauty of architecture, shimmering silks and gems as fine as those in the stories of the Arabian Nights—and poverty, filth, stark misery, pestilence and famine. There are hungry gaunteyed men and women whose bodies show the lack of proper food or any kind of food for that matter, for millions of Indians have never at any time in their lives had what an American would call a square meal. Imagine if you can going to bed hungry every night. The slums are of the worst kind even worse than the cities of Europe in the dark ages. The rich are the richest and the poor are the poorest and they remain so from one generation to another. The Greeks, Arabs, Mongols, Persians, French, Dutch all came conquering India. They have come and they have gone. These invasions are like the winds that ruffle the sea but do not stir the waters below. India's life has gone on as it has always gone on—each caste living by itself, each group set off from the others, having only one thing in common,—contempt for the outcast, the untouchable. The rule of the British Government in India began with the British 424 East India Trading Company. Queen Elizabeth granted a charter to this company; they did little for more than a hundred years. The Dutch and the Portuguese were bidding for the monopoly of this trade, but England out-lasted them. They came merely as traders, they had no ambitions further, but they did cultivate friendly relations with the rulers. They also established some trading settlements but had no intentions of getting mixed up in foreign affairs. British rule really began in India in 1668 when Bombay was given to the British Crown; this was transferred to the India Trading Company, which gave them full rights of rulership on' Indian soil. French were trying to get a foothold in India. 'Aurangzeb, the last ruler of the Great Mohammedan Empire was dead. Internal strife followed. The British interests were in danger. The company had grown to be recognized at home as a national asset. England could not afford to lose it. A British fleet and troops were sent out. The British gradually gained ground until in 1858, Queen Victoria in proclamation assumed for the crown full control and direct responsibility for the government and administration of British India. They confirmed all rights, treaties and contracts previously made with the Native States under the rule of the company. British India comprises about two-thirds of India, the other onethird is made up of native states. British India only, comes under British rule. There were about a million Indians in the World War fighting for England. The British government gave the Indians to understand if they would help the Britains through the war, the British would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stand by India when the war was over. India felt that the British did not keep their word. In 1919 an act was forced through the Indian council making 'British! Rule stronger and sterner than ever before. India cried out in indignation. Gandhi could see that a revolt was inevitable. To prevent violence and bloodshed, he took command of the situation and called on the people of India to oppose the oppression of the British Government, but to oppose it not with arms but with soul force, so under Gandhi three hundred million Hindus and Mohammedans dedicated themselves to passive resistance. They will not obey the British Law. Imprisonment followed, Gandhi among many others went to jail. But the people came together quietly, and solemnly to pledge their faith in Gandhi's doctrine and Gandhi's method. His spirit carries on, everywhere. Some people felt because Gandhi was willing to go to London to the Indian conference after he had refused to go eighteen months before and because of his love for non-violence, that he had sold out to the British; this was not true. The British attitude had changed, their government had been compelled to admit the great power of the Indian Congress, and the idea of complete independence was much more advanced in the minds of the British as well as the Indians. Gandhi was the sole Indian delegate of this Congress in London. He was bound by the instructions of the Indian Congress, their instructions were Complete Independence. This London Congress, held at St. James' Palace was unique, there is nothing comparable to it. One little, almost naked man negotiating with the British Empire. The Empire with MOHANDAS KARAMCHAND GANDHI all its prestige and {traditions of political conquest on the one side and Gandhi with his bottle of goat's milk and a basket of dates and cracked corn on the other. This little insignificant person with his doctrine of non-violence was fighting for the independence of a nation. Gandhi in his first address at this conference said, "If we are intent on complete independence, it is not from any sense of arrogance, not because we want to parade before the universe that we have severed all connections with the British people. On the contrary you will find in that mandate that the Congress contemplates a partnership with the British people, but that partnership or connection must be such as should exist between two absolute peoples. I am here to put forward that claim in the gentlest manner possible, but in the firmest manner possible, with all the strength and energy at my command." No matter what the discussion was he would come back each time to the main issue, "India must be a nation, in-a society of nations of which England, is one, and only one." He says it softly, slowly, gently, but behind him are millions of his countrymen with this one idea. In the Round Table Conference of last winter Muhammed Ali, the representative of the Moslems also voiced this idea when he said, ""Nobody wins a battle. It involves only the will to kill, but all of our three hundred and twenty million people have the will to die for the birth of India as a free, united nation." Many of India's friends such as McDonald, says India must wait, must learn, must grow to dominion stature before being granted dominion privileges. To this, one can only say, Mr. Gandhi can wait also and his wait425 ing is infinitely the easier task, for he need only quietly to refuse to obey the mandates of the Empire. The Empire must enforce them. In the last constitution offered to India the British reserved to his Majesty's Government, the right to control foreign affairs, the finances and defense, but some of the points were in advance of anything previous, first, the landowners should be taxed for the benefit of the community, second, the transfer of law and order in the provinces to responsible Indian hands, third, the recognition of the place of women in Indian political life and enlarging the franchise for women in every direction. This is a signal service. These were offset, however, by the issuing concerning the army—it should be paid for by the Indian taxpayer without any control of the expenditure which is of course Taxation without Representation. Some writers say that the National party in India with Mahatma Gandhi as its leader, is a loosely organized party, it is doubtful if it represents the majority of the Indian population. But even these people feel there should be more advance toward self government. India has had British rule for one hundred fifty years, yet nearly all official positions are filled by Englishmen. Indian officials are not allowed in civil service or the army. Her citizens are not educated, the Philippines and Soviet Russia have less illiteracy than India. Mr. J. T. Sunderland in his book, "India in Bondage," says, "No nation has a right to rule another,. Therefore, England should not rule India. * * * India ruled herself for three thousand years or more and can do it again." Gandhi went to London to work for complete independence for India 426 RELIEF and to give the nation control over the army, external affairs, finances, fiscal and economic policy. Needless to say India has little chance of obtaining such a program. All agree that India at present has many perplexing problems — the Moslems and the Hindus with their different religions, the native states, the plight of the caste of the untouchables. 5 In the one hundred and fifty years, England has done little to iron out any of these problems. The spirit of Indian nationalism seems to be the sort that will endure SOCIETY MAGAZINE and rebel until it is satisfied. This was true of America, of Ireland, and of all people who deeply desire to govern themselves. Nationalism is sweeping over India, bankers, lawyers, millionaires, bazaar traders, mill workers, have all plunged into the struggle with a passionate conviction that the time has come to stake all on winning victory. They are caught up in the wave of mystic, emotional and political sentiment which is sweeping over India like a new religion, a religion of which the prophet and deity is Mahatma Gandhi.