Agnes Macphail By Frank Steele POWERFUL and deep-seatA ed ambition to serve humanity carried a little Ontario country girl to the Canadian House of Commons. This Ontario country girl was Agnes Campbell Macphail, the first and only woman member of the House of Commons in the dominion. If her sister member of parliament in Great Britain, Lady Astor, brilliant and popular, represents the aristocracy, Agnes Macphail represents the struggling masses, particularly the farmers and farm women who back in the memorable general election of 1921 sent her to parliament by a majority of 2591. As a child her soul was kindled by the reading of a cheap, thumbworn copy of Bolton's "Lives of Famous Women." She dreamed then of accomplishing great things. Seated one day in front of the fireplace in the tiny farm home with her two 'sisters and her mother, Agnes cried: "Some day I am going to Europe." Her mother who knew what it was to be poor smiled and replied: "Agnes dear, you are crazy. You'll never have that much money." Confidently, the child answered, "Yes I will. Some day I am going to Europe." That dream of youth has come true for not only did she visit England and the continent, including Geneva, home of the League of Nations, but she was feted by both nobility and commoners, for Agnes Macphail went abroad as a member of parliament and internationally-known exponent of peace and women's rights. Miss Macphail was educated in the public schools of her home county and went on to high school and normal college. She made school teaching her first vehicle of service like many other leaders in the realm of women. She taught both in eastern and western Canada and being a close observer and student of economics and human welfare problems accumulated a rich background for her great moment when in the early fall of 1921 she was nominated by the United Farmers of Ontario for the House of Commons winning an overwhelming victory at the polls -in December. At first the woman parliamentarian was nervous when she rose to address the House. Today she is one of the wittiest and most forceful debaters in the House and invariably fills the galleries. She has strong views on public questions and is fearless in expressing them. She represents a farming constituency, was elected by the farmers and believes that the farmers as a class should be represented directly in legislative bodies. Miss Macphail despises party government — she holds that every measure should be debated upon its merits and the members should be free to record their votes according to their judgment. She denounces the party system of government, favoring a cooperative system and ridicules the idea of members having to jump at the crack of the party whip or be ruled out of their group. Some years ago an effort was made in parliament to revert to the old practice of conferring titles, a practice abandoned in response to a general wish from the Canadian people. Miss Macphail's position was early made clear. She was against the granting of titles but 406 added, "if we are to grant titles, let us grant them to the farmers and laboring class of this country, who make less than a thousand dollars a year.'' Continuing, she said: "Take the famous instance of Lord Beaverbrook, a Canadian, who became rich by making cement so dear that they have to use board sidewalks in Western Canada, so he was given a title." THE attempt to restore titles failed and one of the chief reasons for its failure was the vigorous opposition of Agnes Macphail and the other members of the progressive wing in the House, a group who have a value far beyond their numerical strength. They tackle problems and father reforms that the old line parties would be afraid to sponsor, afraid because it might imperil their continuance in office or, as the case might be, their securing of office. In this attitude the old parties are not unlike literary patrons as Dr. Johnson found them. "Ts not a patron, my lord," he wrote in his caustic letter to Lord Chesterfield, '""one who looks with unconcern on a man struggling in the water, and when he has reached ground encumbers him with help?' Thus in the House and up and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE down the country Agnes Macphail, M. P., speaks out for social justice. She would have a new social order, an order in which co-operation replaces competition both in business and politics. Women have a long way yet to go before they are emancipated—and the way is hard. The atmosphere in Canada is still dominantly masculine," she said not long ago. Miss Macphail is a tireless worker, cares little for sports, is unmarried and is a member of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. There is a fairly large membership of the Reorganized Church in Ontario and the Macphails go back to the early preaching of their faith in Eastern Canada and the establishment of churches there. She still clings to her old home. Her two younger sisters have married and her proud parents, now in the evening of life, cling more and more to Agnes. And Agnes, when the week ends come round, invariably breaks away from her parliamentary duties at Ottawa to be with them "over Sunday." Just an old "down east" custom but it reveals the character of Canada's only woman member of the House of Commons.