Keziah Jane Butler Redd By Ellen R. Bryner
The subduing of this great western desert and the building of the mighty commonwealth we now enjoy was not man's work alone. Women, self-sacrificing, courageous women played their part in the accomplishment of that tremendous task. One of those who served willingly and with fortitude and courage was the subject of this sketch.
Descending from hardy pioneer stock on both her father's and mother's lines she inherited tendencies which produced strength of character—the power of endurance, the spirit of industry and thrift, and an ambition to do worthwhile things. Added to these there was in her makeup a deeply religious spirit and an unusually studious nature.
Keziah Jane was the third of eleven children born to John Lowe Butler and Caroline Skeen. The Butlers and Skeens were early settlers in Kentucky and Tennessee. They were hardworking and enduring people. Conditions in those frontier states at the close of the Revolutionary War demanded men and women of strength and courage to overcome the difficulties of the unsubdued wilderness. A story is told of Keziah's father which was a test of his sense of right. It was his wedding day and, as a gift, Jesse Skeen, the father of the bride, presented them with two slaves. The young husband graciously accepted the gift and the same day gave both their freedom. Tradition says that the Butler family back from John Lowe never held slaves though they lived for generations in slave states.
When the gospel was introduced into their vicinity these two stalwart young people listened and understood its message. On the ninth day of March, 1835, they were baptized and confirmed members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Their hearts rejoiced in their new found faith, but here, as in other parts of the world, the Power of Evil recognized God's work and struck with tremendous force to uproot and destroy it. For more than a year they suffered bitter persecution. This was hurled against them not only by ministers, neighbors, and friends, but also by some of their own family. Jesse Skeen, the wife's father, was bitterly opposed to Mormonism and used his influence to stir up opposition against them.
During that year of sore trial Keziah Jane was born on the twenty-fifth day of February, 1836. When she was but one month old her parents with their little family left Kentucky and joined the body of the Church in Missouri. From March, 1836, until March, 1839, they shared the plunderings and drivings which finally resulted in the extermination of the Mormon people from that state. They helped to build the beautiful city of Nauvoo, sharing the mammoth struggle against poverty and sickness. Later they rejoiced in the period of prosperity which came as a result of the industry of the people and the direct blessing of the Lord upon that once unhealthful spot.
Keziah's father was an initial member of the Nauvoo Legion and also one of the twelve men selected as aid-de-camp to assist and guard the Lieutenant-general, Joseph Smith. As such he accompanied the Prophet on that last fateful trip to Carthage. He wrote in his journal, "We begged that we might stay with him and die with him if necessary." With his blessing upon them the Prophet insisted that they return to their families. He wrote, "We went to our homes like so many sheep that had lost their shepherd."
Sometime in the early spring of 1846, the Butler family with many others crossed the Mississippi and began their westward journey across the State of Iowa. For about six years they remained in temporary homes at and near Winter Quarters. The father with his teams and wagons assisted many of the poorer families to make the journey that far. When the earlier companies left Winter Quarters to go on to the Rocky Mountains this family was not sufficiently equipped for so long a journey. The father worked at his trade as blacksmith and wheelwright to provide for his large family and make his own outfits ready to continue their journey later to the valley of the great Salt Lake.
In the spring of 1852 their trek westward began. There were fifty-one families in the company with Eli B. Kelsey as captain. John Lowe Butler was appointed blacksmith for the company and also captain of the wagons. They arrived in Salt Lake City in the fall of the same year. Keziah, then a girl of fifteen years, had walked the entire distance. Fortunate was she and other members of the family, through the kindness of an old Indian woman, to enjoy a pair of strong buckskin moccasins to begin the long journey. She loved to portray to her children in later years the little incidents she had carried in her memory of that long and tiresome journey—tiresome, though many times full of pleasure to the children of the company as they walked in groups, gathering wild flowers and berries. Sometimes there was danger in their path—Indians, buffaloes, snakes, and wild animals. For this reason the children were instructed to stay close to the wagons. Their interest in the things they found one day took a group of them out of sight of the wagons and they were lost. Great consternation arose throughout the company. The train was stopped and a general search was carried on. The lost ones were found and brought safely into camp. She never forgot the terrible fright nor the scolding from the captain which made them wiser to remember instructions.
John Lowe Butler was prominent in founding the town of Spanish Fork. He was called by President Young to survey the land, lay off blocks and city lots and bring the water from the river to the settlement. These added responsibilities made it necessary for his older children to give their strength and energy to assist in sustaining the helpless ones. Unselfishly this young girl picked up her tasks, displaying patience and interest in the work at hand, so characteristic of her later life. Her school days were limited but her heart was receiving a development in preparation for the mission in life awaiting her.
One of the pioneering companies had brought the family of John Hardison Redd. Lemuel Hardison, a boy of fourteen had driven an ox team across the plains. They settled first in Provo where he attended school the first winter. The family later moved to Spanish Fork where they became prominent helpers in the building up of that place. Lemuel Hardison and Keziah were attracted to each other. A happy courtship followed. With renewed happy energy she continued to assist her family and also reserve a little in preparation for the coming happy event. On the second day of January, 1856, they were married at Spanish Fork. They were sealed in the Endowment House at Salt Lake City on the sixteenth day of February, 1858.
In the early spring following their marriage they were called, with others, by President Young to go as missionaries and colonizers to establish a settlement at Las Vegas in the southern part of Nevada. The purpose of the mission was to open up the lead mines of that vicinity to supply the Territory with lead. They helped build the fort at that place and passed through some very trying experiences. The project was abandoned and the company returned in the autumn of the same year.
In response to a call from President Young to colonize and help build the southern part of the state of Utah, they left Spanish Fork in the fall of 1862 with their four children. They settled in the little town of New Harmony, situated about twenty miles north of the Black Ridge on the head waters of Ash Creek.
With all that any pioneer woman of the West accomplished in the building up of this great state, this woman's efforts and sacrifices will measure full. With her needle she fashioned clothing for her family from the home-spun made by her own hands. She carded and spun the yarn with which she knitted stockings and mittens to meet their needs. Later she became an expert glove-maker. Hundreds of pairs she made to order and sold to assist in meeting the expense of her home. For many years her home was almost independent in itself, with a capable manager to utilize every product for the blessing and comfort of its inmates. Handmade candles, homemade soap, home-cured meats, dried and preserved fruits, honey, cheese, butter, quilts, rugs, and carpets she learned by her industry and economy to prepare and utilize that her family might be provided for.
She was the mother of thirteen children—six sons and seven daughters. Two died in childhood. She was an example of patience and fidelity to her family. She was faithful not only to her home but the community and especially the church organizations felt the benefit of her influence and work. From the time that the Relief Societies were first organized in the stakes until her death she served as first counselor in that organization. Under her direction and designing the Society made many beautiful drawn rugs to assist in financing the organization.
Frontier life with its hard work and denials of education and culture was her portion throughout the years that she lived, and yet she was not uneducated. Hardships and sacrifice when met without complaint lend to the soul a something that is richer and finer than anything obtained from university or college courses. There was something deep and fine in her nature that spoke for culture in its truest sense. As her nature led her to create beautiful and useful things with her hands so also were her mental powers alert in a search for knowledge. The study of the Scriptures was a part of her life. She was as interested as a university student in some subjects of deeper nature. She loved to read church history and place herself and family in the parts they helped to play in the great drama enacted by the people of the Lord as they sought refuge from their enemies in the various periods of their early career.
She died on the fifteenth day of May, 1895, at the age of fifty-nine years. Her life, though short, was long in experiences and accomplishments. She was the mother of two bishops, two stake presidents, one legislator, and nine school teachers. All of her children have been and are untiring ward and stake workers in the various organizations. Three of her children filled foreign missions for the Church and twenty-three grand children have accepted calls and returned with honorable releases. Her life's example and influence have made her children true Latter-day Saints. What greater reward could come to any pioneer mother?