Margaret Shippen By Jensine Johannesen
Margaret Shippen was born in Nauvoo, Nov. 13, 1843. She came to Utah in 1852 and to Eagle Rock, now Idaho Falls, from Wanship, Utah, in 1882. She assisted in the organization of the first Relief Society in Idaho Falls, and was made the first counselor to the first president, Mary J. Hawkley, of that Society at the time of its organization in 1885. In 1888 the Society was re-organized and Margaret Shippen became its president, and in this capacity she worked until 1921, when she was chosen a member of the stake Relief Society, in which she labored until 1925. It was certainly a long and faithful service, and she never failed in fully performing the duties and obligations of the offices that she held for so many years.
During that active and splendid career the days were never too short nor too long, the nights were never too dark nor cold nor stormy for her to respond to any service that was required of her. Whenever she was called to visit the sick or the dying or those in need, Margaret Shippen was there to do her part. It was my good fortune to be associated with her in various activities of this kind from 1898 to 1917. To me it was a wonderful pleasure and one that I have always considered among the happy and fortunate events in my life.
No one could be associated with Margaret Shippen without having a broader view of life, a more charitable feeling toward fellow human beings and a greater desire to be of service to mankind. She was a woman of meekness and humility—one who never let the right hand know what the left hand did, one who always had a good and kind word for everyone, and who spoke no ill of anybody. She was true to her friends, devoted to her work and steadfast in her faith. She had no enemies, for to know her was to love her. Her every act was an impressive lesson in charity, humility, sincerity and devotion. Her unfaltering faith was ever an inspiration, and it can truly be said that the world was bettered by her life.
She died Oct. 27, 1931, having been a member of Relief Society for 70 years, an officer for 40 years, and was active up to four weeks before her death.