[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | December | Issue: 5 | Title: OBEDIENCE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

OBEDIENCE.
(Part of a lecture given by Sister Louisa
	Norris Decker in the 22nd ward Relief
	Society.)

	Obedience brings good order, disobedi-
ence confusion. The elements were obe-
dient to God when He said, “Let there
be light.” The earth was created and all
therein in obedience to His command.
As all things have their opposite, right
and wrong, joy and sorrow, light and
darkness, obedience and disobedience be-
ing opposite, results of these are in ap-
proval or condemnation. We are told
that “obedience is better than sacrifice,”
and there has been many trying sacrifices
made by our people in obedience to the
Gospel. My sisters could tell many tales
of hardship, of sorrow, sickness, and death
of loved ones, the parting from homes,
kindred and native land, all so dear to
their hearts; yet for the truth and the
principle of gathering to Zion, where the
Saints can be united and receive many
blessings, they have gladly  made the
sacrifice to listen to the teachings of our
inspired leaders, and obey their counsel
(for it is a privilege), even coming to our
meetings and associating with our dear,
kind sisters, sustaining our president, her
counselors, and as we know them better
we love them more, We realize their
cares and responsibilities in being obedi-
ent to their calling, and we sustain them
by our faith and our presence.
	In history, very little is said of women.
History treats on the wonderful achieve-
ments of great men; of the nobility of
their nature, the good they have done
for the welfare of humanity, their good
deeds have been applauded, they have in
the good they have wrought obeyed the
instincts of a noble nature, inspired in
many instances; but these great, far-


[Column 1]
famed men received their first impres-
sions from their mothers. Through obe-
dience to the commandment given to mul-
tiply and replenish the earth, she carried
that man-child under her heart until the lit-
tle body was matured, and came forth to
fill his place in life’s great battle, that the
world should be better that he was born.
Ask whence came our great mathema-
ticians? Very few who praise this won-
derful man of figures ever think of the
patient, obedient, plodding mother, at-
tending to her household duties, studying
out the intricate pattern of a bedspread
she was weaving perhaps, while on her
bed in the dark hours of night, thinking
how to weave each thread, not to mar
the beautiful pattern; but these thoughts
and impressions made by the mother often
develop in the child characteristics that
tend to show what the prenatal influ-
ences and environment have been, as
many mothers have testified; though
great men, students of physiology and
doctors, may smile at this crude reasoning
of the mothers in this regard.
	It has been truly said; “the hand that
rocks the cradle rules the world,” yet
woman yields willing obedience and ac-
knowledges man as the head of the
home. Why is this? The best answer
to my mind is, God willed it so. The
children obey their parents because it is
right they should, to promote and main-
tain good order in the home, each one
attending to the duties assigned her or
him according to the child’s age and abil-
ity. We all love the obedient ehild; wil-
ling obedience comes through love and
kindness more often than by means of
harsh measures or strong language. In
my experience I have seen many children
with grieved hearts, eyes filled with tears,
lips quivering, because of cruel words
spoken in anger thoughtlessly. And how
many mother’s hearts have ached waiting
for the kind words that were never spok-
en, only women can answer. And again:
cruel words spoken or blows inflicted by
angry fathers, have driven many a child
from the protection of the home, from
the patient love of the mother or sister,
just at a time when the rebellious, out-
raged, resentful spirit needed their influ-
ence most, driven out to seek that which
was denied them at home, where they
had a right to expect love and tender-
ness. Be careful, young mothers, the
time will come when we will be called to
render an account of these things.
	Women should not shrink from the
responsibities of motherhood because of
trials. Why desire to settle down to the
narrow, selfish life, disregarding nature’s
laws and the commandmentts of God?
Children may bring you the greatest joy
of your life; but if not properly controled
they may bring you the greatest sorrow;
for who can cause us greater grief than
one of our own dear ones?—strong-willed,
disobedient, deaf to the eounsel of a lov-
ing mother, that has done the best she
knew. Sad indeed are these conditions,
but the Lord will help and many times
through prayer, great changes have taken
place in our families, for those who put
their trust in Him, for He doeth all things
well, and makes no mistakes. Mothers,
take on new courage, face the difficulties of
life bravely, and your reward will be
sure. If we do not meet good and evil,
how can we test our strength? How can
we overcome obstacles if there are no

[Column 2]
wrongs to meet, our brains would sleep,
our muscles grow weak; our troubles are
our blessings, as our enemies are our best
friends—they hold our shortcomings up
to view in such a distorted light that we
gladly turn from all our weaknesses and
grow better and wiser.
	Our enemies in the past have persecut-
ed and driven the Saints from their homes
and civilization; yet we have grown
stronger and better off in all respects;
yet they have followed us hither, and are
not content to leave us to ourselves.
There are many instances of courage and
heroism that might be given of those who
have borne the burden and heat of the
day, and who through obedience have
made sacrifices that were hard to endure,
yet have borne all patiently in faith and
humility.  History will record many of
the brave deeds of the Saints; but all can-
not be told; the angels who are watching
are “silent notes taking,” and the faith-
ful and true and tried will triumph, and
no power can hinder those who stand for
truth and righteousness from obtaining
the reward of obedience to the Gospel.
	“Obedience is the Christian’s crown.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
