RABBI FLEISCHER ON WOMAN.
		(Concluded.)

	In this process and towards
this result, forward-looking men and
women both, all who seek the progress
of the race will co-operate. And this for
the double reason: that equal with man’s
a woman’s individuality being sacred, she
is entitled to fullest opportunity for self-
development and in the free use of her
powers; and, secondly, as the mother of
the race, the more the calibre of woman-
hood is improved the better the outlook,
through her for all the children of men.
	“It is idle, at this stage for sentimen-
talists to theorize about ‘woman’s sphere.’
From the standpoint of democracy, I
prophecy (and it is a prophecy which
every day is fulfilling) that woman’s
sphere and career will be wherever the
individual woman’s capacity and social
interest, her individual need and her so-
cial use prompt her to find them. Wom-
an’s sphere is the home? What becomes
of that generalization in the face of the
millions of women who are not home-
builders and who have proved their econ-
omic worth outside of the home? Her
sphere is partly there, as is man’s. Her
marital relationship need not absorb her
individuality any more than it does a
man’s. Anyhow, it does not. And plain-
ly it cannot in the case of the millions of
unmarried women who have attained eco-
nomic independence. But the marriage
relationship itself will be finer and social-
ly more valuable, when that is based—as,
in time, it must be—upon the democratic
principle of equivalence or equality of
husband and wife.
	“In the spirit of democracy, we may
not herd women and dogamatize about
them as a class apart. Democracy should
talk no more about sex than it does about
sect. In the light of democracy each hu-
man atom is a sacred individuality, which
is to get from and give to social organiz-
ation the utmost benefits of human asso-
ciation. Really, there is no such thing as
‘man’ or ‘woman’, but only individual men
and women, to be developed into fuller
and finer humanness through cooperation
in the various social groups known as 
home and shop and church and State and
what not. Thus each of these human
beings is to be fitted to contribute towards
advancing the day of completer democra-
cy, which in turn will mean always more
of justice and opportunity to each human
unit, whether male or female.—Woman’s
Journal,

