		ALPINE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Alpine Stake was held in Science Hall,
American Fork, January 12, 1906. Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding.
	After the usual exercises President
Standring wished all a happy and pros-
perous New Year. Hoped our love and
confidence would increase and that our
work would be onward. Reported that
all the wards had been visited during the
past quarter. We can learn everything
in the Society that will tend to elevate
us; we should be good wives and moth-
ers, good citizens and good members of
societv. The Savior said that the time
would come when the children of the
kingdom would be cast out while strang-
ers would take their places. Prayed for
the eyes of the parents to be opened to
teach the children the way of eternal
life.
	All the wards in the stake were repre-
sented except one; the presidents re-
ported a good condition, the sisters hold
regular meetings, and love and unity pre-
vails; they are caring for the poor and
sick and have gathered a good amount of
grain, and nearly all own their own
granaries. Also have Mother's lessons
and enjoy them.
	Stake President Stephen S. Chipman
was pleased to hear that the wards have
means to bless the poor and needy during
this cold weather. The tithes and offer-
ings have been more the past year than
the year previous. Urged the mothers to
use their best efforts to keep their boys
in purity and cleanliness of spirit.
	President James H. Clark said: The 
mothers all desire the welfare of their
boys and girls. Our children should be
taught that they are partly responsible
for their actions and habits, and instead
of spending all their means in frivolity
they should pay a little tithing and begin 
to realize that something is depending on
them and they must do their part, Our
sisters offer their prayers to God and it is
necessary that the children do their part
and also pray in the family, children will
be governed in a measure by the spirit of
prayer. If we make a mistake we must
repent of it and our children must do the
same. Adjourned after singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session.---Meeting recon-
vened at 2 o'clock, and opened with the
usual exercises. Stake Counselor Harriet
Jacobs spoke to the mothers on the care
and training of their children, urged them
to call the family together in the ab-
sence of the husband and have them take
part in family prayer. Said there was
nothing that would do our children more
good than to have them go on a mission.
Was thankful the Lord had blest our
President, that she had been given wis-
dom, streugth and ability to successfully
take the management and responsibility
of this society.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt
that our labor could not be performed by
anyone else, it is our labor and our work.
Believed the Prophet Joseph Smith re-

[Column 3]
alized the great responsibility that would
rest on the sisters in the work of this so-
ciety. We should feel that God recog-
nizes us, and that He accepts our labors.
We should be ever ready to say, "Father,
thy will be done." We must encourage 
our sons and daughters to take missions,
for we know not the importance of the
missionary work in the world. The Lord
will bless and comfort His daughters while
their husbands and sons are away on mis-
sions. We all make mistakes but the
Lord is merciful to our weaknesses.
Prayed the Lord to bless Sister Stand-
ring and preserve her long on the earth.
	Stake Missionary Emily H. Bullock felt 
there is room for all to improve. Urged
the sisters to take care of their children
and keep them off the street at night.
We have had a good day today and have
been blest and paid for coming together.
Prayed for a blessing on Sister Standring
and on all the sisters.
	President Standring was pleased with
the reports given and also with the spirit
of the meeting. Urged the sisters to buy
wheat with the money collected for that 
purpose as soon as possible and not keep
cash on hand. Felt to thank God that
she had been called to preside over this
stake of Zion, for she knew that it was
the will of the Lord. May the spirit of
this conference go with us and abide with
us each and all.
	Singing and benediction.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
