THE LION HOUSE PARTY.
	Col. Willard Young, Master of Cere-
monies, introduced the speakers, making
suggestive explanatory remarks.
	We of the early days in the valley,
have many tender recollections of the
Lion House. The name is significant in
the history of Salt Lake City, and it
means much of sentiment and veneration
to some of us who were familiar with the
house and its former occupants. What
memories it awakens to go inside its
walls or even to gaze upon the outside.
Built firm, strong and substantial, may it
ever be preserved. Great men and wo-
men have been sheltered there, and chil-
dren who have achieved greatness have
been born there. The greatest and grand-
est men of their time have prayed and
sung and feasted within its sacred pre-
cincts,. and great truths have been given
to the world from the owner of that
stately mansion and from his associates.
	Sitting in the Lion House parlor one
can recall varied scenes of the past, and
one becomes visionary, for the faces and
forms of long ago come back as it were,
and stand in their accustomed places; and
though the room may be crowded, we see
not those that are there so well as we do
the ones who once filled these now vacant
halls. It reminds one of Moore:

	“I feel like one who treads alone
		Some banquet hall deserted,
	Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
		And all but me departed.”

Or like Longfellow:

	“This is the place	*	*
		Let me review the scene,
	And summon from the shadowy past
		The forms that once have been.”

	There is no time nowadays to dream;


[Column 1]
the watchword of the hour is activity;
but at the party in the Lion House on
the 17th of March people were requested
to be reminiscent; those who spoke gave
many interesting incidents, and the rest
of us dreamed and saw visions. 
	The house was erected half a century
ago, and the young woman in whose
honor the party was given was born in it
half a century ago, and both are still in 
their prime and likely to last another
half century or more!
	There were a number of people there 
who had helped to erect the unique struc-
ture, and among them Bishop Romney,
Joshua Midgeley, William Foster, and
Hamilton G. Park. We had the pleasure
too of hearing the hostess, Susa Young
Gates, who told us about some of the 
stirring events that had transpired there
in her quaintly humorous style and Zina
Young Card was booked to tell of “Court-
ships in the Lion House,” so sorry we
could not have heard those pretty love
passages; however, Bishop Whitney re-
lated his boyish pranks, which were al-
most as good as love stories, delightfully
interesting for past history. William Fos-
ter sang “Hard Times Come Again No
More,” and all joined in the chorus, and
there were a number of songs and some
hymns.
	President Joseph F. Smith gave recol-
lections of his youthful days in the valley
and of his Echo Canon experience un-
der Porter Rockwell, whose very name is
always a reminder of funny things, and
daring deeds, and the President also re-
lated their triumphal return home when
Johnston’s army passed through on their
way to Camp Floyd, which was very en-
tertaining.
	Beisdes speeches, songs, conversation
and music, there was a surprise for the 
honored lady of the Lion House—a box
presented by Miss Babcock from the
General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. with
a strict injunction not to to open it until
midnight, possibly as the 18th, and not
the 17th of March, was the day on which
Mrs. Gates came into the Lion House
first. It would be impossible to give you
any idea of Miss Babcock’s speech on
paper, no pen could do it justice, but it
was sufficient for the occasion, and the 
applause was great.
	Besides all this, the guests were treated
to delicious refreshments and invited into
the Hall of Relics, where there were many
old-fashioned curiosities. In another
room there was a fish pond, and every-
body caught something, useful or funny.
Altogether the party was an immense
success, to see so many old friends
of other days together is very grati-
fying, and so many of the family of
the great, good and wise man, who
had dwelt there and raised his chil-
dren in loving tenderness, surrounded by
his numerous family and friends, by 
whom he was honored, admired and be-
loved; and his memory is hallowed and
sacredly enshrined in the hearts of the
people for whom he strove and planned
and wrought, and with his fellow laborers
founded this Territory and made it habit-
able and beautiful. Honor is due Brig-
ham Young and his famous band of pion-
eers and associates, from all who settle
in these mountain vales. They are the
men who made it possible to dwell here
in peace and security. Congratulations to
Sister Susa Young Gates on her fifty years

[Column 2]
young. Would we could write something
worthy of the unique occasion, but as
that is impossible, let us quote from
Longfellow:

“Vanish the dream! Vanish the idle fears!
	Vanish the rolling mists of fifty years!
	Whatever time or space may intervene,
	I will not be a stranger in this scene.
	Here every doubt, all indecision ends;
	Hail my companions, comrades, class mates,
	friends!

“Ah me! the fifty years since last we met
	Seem to me fifty folios bound and set
	By Time, the great transcriber, on his shelves,
	Wherein are written the histories of ourselves.
	What tragedies, what comedies are there;
	What joy and grief, what rapture and despair!
	What chronicles of triumph and defeat,
	Of struggle and temptation and retreat!
	What records of regrets and doubts and fears;
	What pages blotted, blistered by our tears!
	What sweet, angelic faces; what divine
	And lovely images of love and trust,
	Undimmed by age, unsoiled by damp and dust!

“Whose hand shall dare to open and explore
	These volumes closed and clasped forevermore?
	Not mine, with reverential feet I pass;
	I hear a voice that cries ‘Alas! Alas!
	Whatever has been written shall remain,
	Nor be erased nor written o’er again
	The unwritten only still belongs to thee—
	Take heed and ponder well what that shall
		be.’ ”


