	A HAPPY SOCIAL EVENT.

	The President, General Board, and
missionaries of the Relief Society gave a
party on Wednesday, February 28, in
honor of the Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells
at the home of her daughter Annie Wells
Cannon at Cannon Farm. The day was
very stormy but nevertheless a large num-
ber of the guests brayed the stormy wind
and weather, and celebrated the occasion
in a highly intellectual and spiritual
feast of good things, not forgetting the
dainty refreshments, flowers, music, songs
and poems.
	The presence of President Francis M.
Lyman, Apostle Charles W. Penrose,
Dr. Seymour B. Young, and Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon was very much appre-
ciated, and it was very gratifying to the
ladies who had charge of the affair to be
thus honored and to hear their words of
commendation and encouragement to the
sisters who are engaged in the noble work
of benevolence and blessing, and devoting
time and talents to the uplifting of human-
ity and the spread of truth.
	There were many precious gifts of var-
ious kinds from friends beloved, and it is
surely fitting to acknowledge with deep-
est gratitude from a heart overflowing
with love, the intense desire to become
more worthy of the honor bestowed by
such an ovation from dear relatives and
friends, who came with glad hearts and
cheering words on that day of days now
never to be forgotten by the recipient of
all this loving kindness.
	The magnificent bouquet of white car-
nations, seventy-eight in number, with a
beautiful white rose in the centre, pre-
sented by the First Presidency came in
the midst of the severe storm raging with-
out, calling to mind the tender thought-
fulness of these busy men (who could not
attend,) and bringing as it were not only
the delicate fragrance of these dainty
blossoms, but the magic charm that no
words can express, that touches the
depths of the human soul.
	It is sometimes good to pause in the

[Column 2]
hurry and bustle of life and consider one's
attitude towards those with whom one
mingles from day to day. The social
phase of human life is worthy of some
attention more than mere handshaking
and formal expressions of “How do you
do?” and “Good-bye,” and no doubt it is
beneficial to cultivate social qualities and
amenities, and would make our workaday
world more optimistic.
	The goodly company assembled on the
day heretofore mentioned did themselves
proud by their careful management of the
program of music, songs, hymns and
speeches, as well as the delicious menu
served by sweet girls in the daintiest
fashion. Original poems by Lula Greene
Richards, Lydia D. Alder and Ruth M.
Fox, written for the occasion, were inter-
spersed and appreciated and, a sort of
humorous mock trial scene, improvised
by one of the ladies to create a little mer-
riment was given with judge, jury and de-
fendant, and the calling of the court to
order with much noisy blowing of horns,
etc.
	Also for diversion a little Miss disguised
as a gipsy sat demurely in a corner to tell
fortunes, that each one drew out of a
basket filled with slips of paper on which
one's fortune was supposed to be writ-
ten.
	There were kind words and short
speeches by some of the ladies, among
them our honored Elect Lady, Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith, whose life-long experi-
ence is replete with telling incidents, and
when given in her inimitable style fall on
her listeners as gently as the summer
rain on the drooping flowers, gladdening
the heart, and revivifying and invigor-
ating the soul, awakening desires to fol-
low in her footsteps, and go and do like-
wise.
	Though the storm still raged when the
guests departed, yet they sang hymns
while waiting outside for the car, a pretty
good proof of the joyous day.


