TWO MOTHERS.
	BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.
		(Mother of Jesus.)
Oh, Mary, thy name is exalted!
	Great was thy mission on earth,
Thou didst not mother the race of kings,
	But gavest the Savior birth.

That tiny baby in the manger low,
	The man who was wise and good,
Was he but to thee thy first born son,
	’Til ’neath the cruel cro[-]s thou stood?

Ah, then didst think on that holy birth?
	Thy mother’s heart with anguish rent—
Didst think as darkness covered earth,
	That the boy tho’ thine was heaven sent?

*		*		*		*		*		*

		(Mother of Judas.)
And thou, forgotten and nameless one!
	To thee also, the mother’s crown was given,
Thou loved into life a wayward son,
	Now outcast from earth and from heaven.

When thou didst return from the “Valley of
		Death,”
	With a heart filled with exquisite joy,
Didst thou in thankfulness glorify God
	As thou clasped in rapture the boy?

And when the wee one to manhood had grown
	With heart harden’d ’gainst counsel and love,
Did the heart of a mother cling to him still
	And plead for grace from above?

Thou didst mother a traitor and coward, I ween,
	Bringing sorrow and shame unto thee.
But thou couldst not forget that he slept on thy
		breast,
	Thou couldst not forget that he played at thy
		knee.

Oh, thou, and not Mary, was “Mother of
		sorrows.”
	Didst feel in thy heart thou wert crucified too?
Oh, Great God of Heaven; Thy children do
		thank Thee,
	For the gift of the “mother heart,” steadfast
		and true.


[Column 1]
MEMORIAL MEETINGS.
	Rabbi Charles Fleischer spoke on Miss
Anthony during the services of Temple
Adath Israel in Boston on March 24. He
said in part:
	"In the last analysis, as in the first, wo-
man's rights are human rights. Indeed,
the interests of each are the concern of
all. No one of us is really free while slav-
ery exists anywhere. No one of us has
justice while injustice claims its victims.
No one is safe while tyranny holds sway
over another.
	For Miss Anthony equal suffrage, though
a necessary achievement, was only a sym-
bol of the status of women in society on
a plane and upon a par with men. I am


[Column 2]
convinced that if I reach Miss Anthony's
age I shall witness the complete fulfill-
ment of her hopes in this regard, and thus
behold the human race, in America at
least, take another long stride forward."
	The Maine and Portland Woman Suf-
frage Associations, State and local, united
in a memorial service in the Chestnut St.
Church. Miss Bertha King sang "Cross-
ing the Bar," and the audience the "Bat-
tle Hymn of the Republic." Rev. Dr.
Magruder offered prayer, and Rev. Dr.
Henry Blanchard gave the eulogy. He
said of Miss Anthony, in part:
	"Her courage was conspicuous - physical
and moral. She was not frightened "by
so slight a thing as a cyclone." Her con-
stancy was never shaken. Beaten in her
efforts before Congress, she planned a
new campaign as she came down the steps
of the Capitol at midnight. "Were you
never discouraged?" said one. "Never
I knew that my cause was just, and I was
always in good company."
	Her consecration was apparent. Some
thought she did not believe enough in
God. She was more ethical than pious.
A woman complained to a friend because
Miss Willard praised Miss Anthony. She
thought it wrong, because Miss Anthony
did not sufficiently recognize God. "I do
not know about that." said the friend,"but I do know that God had recognized,
her and her work for the last 30 years."
	The Shakers of Mount Lebanon, N. Y.,
held a memorial service in memory of
"Saint Susan," as Elder Daniel Offord
calls her. There was a large attendance
from the Shaker Village, and the neigh-
boring villages of New Lebanon and Leb-
anon Springs. Sister Amanda Deyo made
the principal address. The account in
the Springfield Republican was road by
one of the brothers. Eldress Anna White
gave personal recollections of Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, whose visit many years
ago to the Mount Lebanon Community is
still recalled with great interest, and gave
the impression made on her own mind
when, at the age of thirteen, she witnessed
the silencing of Lucretia Mott in a Quaker
meeting, because of her too advanced
thought. An extract from the tribute to
Susan B. Anthony by the President of
Bryn Mawr College, from the WOMAN'S
JOURNAL, was much appreciated. A num-
ber of short speeches were made by broth-
ers and sisters of the Order, and Elder
Ernest Pick said that in such a life and
character as that of Susan B. Anthony, he
recognized one of the saviors of the world.
Sister Amanda Deyo and Sister Catherine
Allen emphasized the Shaker belief that
the wider recognition of the law of equity
by which women are coming to their
birthright is due to the growing sense of
the true Father-Mother Spirit, the Cre-
ative Being. Sister Amanda ascribed to
Ann Lee the honorable place of leader in
the movement for woman's freedom.
	The P. E. Club of Manlius N. Y., held
a memorial meeting at the home of the
president, Mrs. Christina M. Sinnamon,
at the hour of Miss Anthony's funeral.
Mrs. Sinnamon writes that, despite pro-
found sadness, they were "grateful for
what the long and active life of Susan B.
Anthony has accomplished to make wo-
man's life more useful and enjoyable."
	At the hour of Miss Anthony's funeral,

[Column 3]
a memorial meeting was held in the Uni-
tarian church of Ithaca, N. Y. The pas-
tor, Rev. Cyrus W. Heizer, gave an ad-
dress on "Miss Anthony and Her Work."
Mr. Ducan Campbell Lee, editor of the
Daily News, spoke on "What Women
Can Do," and there were papers by sev-
eral members of the P. E. Club.
	The Civic Club of Lyons, N. Y., was
preparing to hold a celebration on March
13 in honor of Miss Anthony's birthday,
It was changed to a memorial service. A
fine portrait of Miss Anthony, draped not
in black but in white, stood on the table,
and another, draped in purple, hung on
the wall. The president, Mrs. Isabel C. Bar-
rows, who gave probably the first of the
vast number of memorial addresses that
have been delivered all over the country.
She urged the women present to make
work for Oregon their memorial to Miss
Anthony, and they voted a contribution
to the Oregon campaign. Rev. W. N.
Webb pronounced a eulogy, and there
was fine music.
	Hon. Samuel J. Barrow. National Pris-
on Commissioner, writes: "When I go to
Albany I shall go and look at her bust chis-
elled in stone at the Capitol. That is
one tribute which the Legislature of New
York paid to her; but how far it falls
short of what they might have done by
admitting her to their councils! But
some day women will be sitting at the
desks in the house, just as now by cour-
tesy they are allowed to sit inside the
rail."
	Woman's Journal.


