SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		MARCH, 1906


[Column 1]
	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
	A FRIEND TO HUMANITY.
	Too much cannot be said or done to
emphasize the great work and worth of
Miss Anthony, whose passing away has
left a void no other woman can quite
fill; her magnificent ideas of equal privi-
leges touched every heart that beats with
genuine love for mankind. It is impossi-
ble for us to write satisfactorily upon such
a theme as her life presents. Miss An-
thony’s personality pervaded the atmos-
phere of every room she entered; her
queenly manner and the majesty of her
presence would adorn any station in life,
even had she been elected President of
the United States. But though she only
sought for equal privileges with the oppo-
site sex in the State and at the ballot
box, that small boon was withheld.
	Through her own active exertions
coupled with her great love for humanity
and personal influence, she created for
herself without wealth or titles a national
and international reputation for wisdom
and knowledge of affairs that gave her the
entre into the best society throughout the
United States and the countries she vis-
ited. Her own great soul dominated
without any assumption of power, and
those around her realized she was a born
leader, and became her loyal adherents
to follow her lead.
	At the present time we cannot really
estimate her loss, nor can we do justice to
her many admirable qualities; nor relate
her remarkable adventures and stories of
travel, we can only write a few words as
a loving tribute to her memory and leave
the matter to come up later, when there
has been time to tell the narrative of her
life-work more fittingly than a brief no-
tice hastily written.
	We mourn for her with her many
friends, and we also rejoice in the great
work she accomplished. One writer said
of her most truly, “She has lived a thou-
sand years, if achievement can measure
the length of life.”
	Memorial services were held as a trib-
ute to Miss Susan B. Anthony in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, on the Temple
block in this city, on Saturday morning,
March 18, 1906, President Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. The hall was appropri-
ately decorated with Stars and Stripes,
palms and flowers. The services were
deeply impressive; the congregation sang
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s glorious words,

[Column 2]
“The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” and
prayer was offered by Hon. John T. Caine,
a personal friend of Miss Anthony. The
hymn, “Lead Kindly Light,” sung by
Miss Judith Anderson, Miss Mattie Read
accompanying on the organ, was one of
Miss Anthony’s favorite selections.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made in
her most gracious way a brief but fervent
opening speech.
	Resolutions from the Utah Woman’s
Council were read by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
and afterwards unanimously adopted.
	At a meeting of the State Council of
Women, held at Salt Lake City, on Sat-
urday, March 17, 1906, the following pre-
amble and resolutions were unanimously 
adopted:

	Whereas, we have learned with deep
regret of the death of Susan B. An[-]hony,
that noble and self-sacrificing woman, and
able and devoted advocate of equal rights
for all. And,
	Whereas, her whole life has been spent
in espousing the cause of humanity, and,
in endeavoring to place woman on the
same plane with man; therefore, be it
	Resolved, that in her death the women
of Utah, the United States and the world,
lose their dearest and best friend, and
most consistent exponent of woman suf-
frage, and be it further
	Resolved, that we tender our heart-
felt sympathy to her loved ones in this
hour of their sadness and affliction, and
that her memory be revered as a sacred
inheritance, and an incentive to every-
thing that is ennobling and uplifting, and
that it may live in the world<h>s archives
with those who have left the world
better for having lived in it. And also
be it
	Resolved, that the above preamble and
resolutions be spread on the minutes of
the State Council of Women of Utah,
and be published in the Salt Lake jour-
nals, and a copy thereof be transmitted
to the president of the Woman’s National
Suffrage Association,
	EMILY S. RICHARDS, President.
	ELIZABETH M. COHEN, Secretary.
	Resolutions of Y. L. N. M. I. A. read
by Miss Ann M. Cannon:
	Whereas, the members of this associ-
ation do feel a personal loss in the death
of humanity’s uncrowned queen, Miss
Susan B. Anthony, and,
	Whereas, the beauty and glory of her
life have become a part of the heritage
of the ages; and through that life every
woman’s intelligence and freedom have
been augmented in an incalculable de-
gree; and therefore, every man born of
woman has had his own horizon enlarged,
his possibilities increased, and his charac-
ter ennobled; and,
	Whereas, her Christ-like, unselfish de-
votion to life’s highest ideals, and her ac-
curate appreciation of justice, which
never steeled her heart to the pleadings
of mercy, have set a goodly pattern for
us to follow; and,
	Whereas, her passing is as fruitful and
beautiful as was her living;
	Now, therefore, be it resolved, that we,
the members of this association, do con-
secrate one hallowed niche in each indi-
vidual memory wherein to place the life-
work of Susan B. Anthony, the supreme
leader of womankind in modern historic-
al times; and that we will endeavor to

[Column 3]
let her pure life-passion so enrich our
own souls that wherever her spirit may
be hidden in the bosom of eternity, she
shall be filled with some measure of di-
vine joy that we do remember, and that
we do progress because of her life and its
labors.
	Our hearts are lifted, therefore, in one
united hymn of praise and joy, and we
offer our pleading petition to that God
who doth judge the quick and dead, that
in the heavenly home to which some day
we shall all go, we may be permitted to
mingle and labor in the eternal verities
over there, side by side with Susan B.
Anthony.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES,
		ANN M. CANNON,
			Committee.
	The speakers, who paid glowing trib-
utes to Miss Anthony at this meeting, were
Mesdames Emily S. Richards, Susa
Young Gates and Alice Merrill Horne.
Miss Judith Anderson rendered a solo,
“O Dry Those Tears.” it was very sweetly
sung. Hon. John T. Caine was the next
speaker, followed by George D. Pyper,
who sang in his best style, “O My
Father,” a favorite hymn.
	Mesdames Ida Smoot Dusenberry,
Sarah Jennie Cannon, Minnie J. Snow
and Emmeline B. Wells each poke
feelingly and effectively of their love,
veneration and appreciation of this
remarkable woman.
	The services closed with singing Dox-
ology and prayer by President Martha
Horne Tingey of the Y. L. N. M. I. A.


