		NORTH SANPETE.
	Relief Society Conference of the North
Sanpete Stake, held in Mt. Pleasant
Sept. 5, 1905, Pres. Williamina H. Erick-
sen presiding. After the usual exercises,
opening remarks were made by President
Williamina Ericksen.
	President Levee Stewart of Milburn was
the first to report her ward. Said they
had not been able to hold their meetings
regularly. Some of their number having
moved away and others being unable to
attend their numbers were low. Hoped
to be able to do better, but they had made
a quilt. In the absence of the president
of the Fairview society, Sister Terry re-
ported it. Said they had a good attend-
ance, especially in their testimony meet-
ings. Have 4 quilts and 2300 bushels of
wheat on hand, besides other things in
the treasury. 
	President Anna M. Hardy of Moroni
said they had interesting meetings. Had
completed their building and were very
proud of it. Held a bazar and raised
some money. Have sheep, and shares in
the store from which they derive a divi-
dend. Teachers report the sick and
needy.
	President Mary Guymon, Fountain
Green, said in her ward, the president,
officers and teachers work unitedly in the
interest of the Relief Society. The
young mothers are becoming interested

[Column 2]
in the Mothers’ Work; usually make 5 or
6 quilts for winter for the poor, and ex-
pect to do so again. President Frieda
Edmunds of Wales said they helped the
missionaries and the sick by means of
socials. Had gathered considerable
money in that way. There had been a 
great deal of sickness and for that reason
they had been obliged to discontinue
their meetings. Believed that trials and
sickness draw us closer to our Heavenly
Father, and bore her testimony to the
goodness of the Lord, although she had
been sorely afflicted, having lost a beau-
tiful babe, and another child had his leg
broken. President Lovina Allred of
Chester said their meeting-house was
being repaired and they had met in pri-
vate houses for work meetings. Had
donated $12 for their meeting-house and
had also made carpet for it, so that in the
future they will have a comfortable place
in which to meet. 
	Song by Sina Clark.
	President Mary E. Simmonsen of
Freedom said they held work meetings
which were better attended than their 
regular testimony meetings. Have money
with which to buy wheat when they get
a place to put it; had passed through 
many trials, having lost three children in
one week.
	Sister Clarissa Williams (Treasurer of
the General Society) was more than
pleased to meet with the Relief Society 
sisters. Had begun in this work early.
Was appointed a teacher at 18, next be-
came secretary, and afterward, president
of the ward, then treasurer of the Gener-
al Society, and now president of the Salt
Lake Stake.
	Encouraged work meetings in private
houses. Said mothers’ meeting should
be combined with testimony meeting; had
listened with pleasure to the reports. It
is commendable the way the sisters assist
the brethren in building, carpeting, and
furnishing the ward houses.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker was very much
pleased to be present in conference.
Said throughout Salt Lake Stake, Ward
Relief Society conferences are held annu-
ally to bring the work before the people
of the respective wards. Felt to con-
gratulate the people here on their pleas-
ant surroundings.
	Singing and benediction.

	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.
	General and Stake officers were unani-
mously sustained. Statistical and finan-
cial report of the past year was read.
President Ellen Tullgren of Spring City
thought they had a good organization in
her ward. The ward is building a new
meeting-house and the sisters have con-
tributed one thousand dollars since the
building was commenced.
	Sister Simpson of Mt. Pleasant South
Ward reported their society in the ab-
sence of the president. Was sorry the 
president, Sister Morrison was too feeble
to be present, but hoped the Lord would 
bless and strengthen her. Had sold
their wheat; had plenty in the treasury
for the poor and tried to look after their
wants. Counselor Nielson of the Mount 
Pleasant North Ward said their meetings
were quite well attended and their treas-
ury well filled. Their wheat in connec-
ion with that of the South Ward had
been sold and had not been replaced on

[Column 3]
account of not having any place to put it.
	Sister Jane Seely, one of the pioneers,
testified to seeing the prophet and had
passed through many of the persecutions
and mobbings of early days. Sister Mary
Wilcox, another pioneer, related her ex-
perience in crossing the plains. Had
driven an ox team all the way. Had been
in the mobbings but had been preserved.
Had raised a large family and had never
buried a child.
	A paper “Motherhood a Profession,”
from Spring City.
	Song by Beatrice Ericksen “Face to
Face.”
	Sister Harker hoped the Lord would
direct her remarks in the proper channel.
Explained what the sisters were trying to
do for girls who go to Salt Lake to ob-
tain employment, but hoped mothers
would not put all the responsibility upon 
them.
	Sister Clarissa Williams had been very
much interested  Hoped the young wo-
men would become more interested in
this work than they have been in the
past.
	Motherhood is the greatest gift that
can be bestowed upon woman. Keep
your girls home under your own influence.
	President C. N. Lund had been much
interested. Said he thought women had
the gift of reaching the heart of man
more than men had. The most impress-
ive speeches he had ever heard were from
women of the Relief Society.
	Closing remarks by Pres. Williamina
Ericksen.
	Song by the Glee Club.
	Benediction.
			Stake Secretary R. S.


