OBITUARY.
		HARRIET STANIFORTH.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Harriet Staniforth, who departed this life at her
home in Farmington, Utah, Feb. 24th. 1906, after
a residence of forty years.
	She was in her 86th year, having acted as mid-
wife the greater part of her life; she was faith-
ful and true to any and all cal[-]s made of her; was
gentle and unassuming in her manner, and a spirit
of peace and comfort attended her ministrations
into every home; she never turned any one away,
no matter what their conditions, giving her ser-
vices free to widows, missionaries’ wives, and to
the families of those who were imprisoned for
“conscience sake;” she lived and died a faithful
Latter-day Saint
	We esteem it a pleasant duty to testify of her
faithfulness, as she has left a record that would be
hard to surpass; she endeared herself to the hearts
of the children as well as the parents.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we emulate her ex-
ample of love and unselfishness to her fellow
man, and that a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the record of the Relief Society, and
a copy be framed and hung upon the walls of the
Relief Society hall,	
					WEALTHY CLARK,
		Missionary in Davis Stake Relief Society.
					LOVISA A. SEARS,
					Secretary Farmington R, S.
		JANE COUSINS BIRKBECK.
	One after another those whose names were en-
rolled in the first organization of the Relief Society
in this place are called to the other side, where no
doubt they are still engaged in the good work.
Among the earliest promoters, none took greater
interest nor labored more faithfully in whatever
capacity she was called to than Sister Jane C.
Birkbeck, who laid down life’s burden at the ripe
age of eighty-three; fifty-two years of which time
were passed in Utah, having emigrated from her
native land with her husband in the year 1852,
moving to Cedar in the course of a year or two,
where they resided up to the time of their deaths,
Brother Birkbeck having preceded her about two
years.
	In Society work Sister Birkbeck filled the posi-
tion of counselor for a number of years. Upon
resigning that position she acted as teacher, which
office she sustained faithfully as long as her health
would permit. Always ready in tlmes of sickness
or distress to assist not alone by words but works
as well, thereby fulfilling the will of the Savior,
“Bear ye one another’s burdens.”
	Sister Birkbeck was Stake Treasurer of the Re-
lief Society from 1894 until the officers were
changed in 1902.
	Grandma Birkbeck, as we familiarly called her,
will live long in the memory of many of the peo-
ple of Cedar, not alone for her deeds of charity
and kindness, but the interest she took in the pro-
motion of amusements; being early associated
with the Home Dramatic Company, which in for-
mer days afforded a great deal of pleasure to the
community.
	Although having no family connections of her
own, she was lovingly cared for by her adopted
daughter, Mrs. Ella Mitchell, and many kind
friends during her sickness, which resulted in her
death on the 15th of November, 1905. 
	Her funeral, which took place on the 18th, was
held in the tabernacle, the interior of which was
draped in white, and many of her old friends were
present from other places to show their respect for
the one who had gone before.
								J. P. M.


