		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the 36thRelief Society con
ference of Uintah stake of Zion, held at
Mt. Dell, November 23, 1905. Presi-
dent Sarah A. Colton presiding. Sing-
ing, "Great God attend while Zion sings."
Opening prayer, Sister Nancy A. Colton.
Singing' "How firm a foundation." Roll
called, Minutes read and accepted.
	Sister Nancy A. Colton reported the
stake in fair condition; also gave the sis-
ters a great deal of encouragement, and
spoke of forgiveness.
	President Colton felt well in meeting
with the sisters of Mt. Dell; thought we
should live so that we could be  sisters in
very deed. Related some of the counsel
given at the lateGeneral Conference held
in Salt Lake City.
	Sister Mary J. Searle of Mt. Dell so-
ciety. reported the sisters doing as well
as they could under the circumstances.
Sister Annie Casper of Naples ward soci-
ety reported that society as getting along
quite well---felt like giving her teachers a
word of praise. Sister Hannah Odekirk
reported the Vernal society as getting
along quite well;felt well in meeting with
the sisters of Mt. Dell; had lived in the 
county for 20 years,and had never visited
Mt. Dell before.
	An essay from Jensen ward society was
read by the secretary, Phebe A. Merkley,
also a report, it being too far for those
sisters to travel to conference. Sister A. 
K. Bartlett spoke of the Savior and the
records that we have to guide our foot-
steps; referred to the 14th chapter of
Revelations and bore her testimony.
	Brother Mathias Caldwell, who was 
quite feeble, said he did not have the
privilege of going to meeting very often;
felt to bless the sisters for holding con-
ference in that ward; he was quite an
old timer; he related some of the perse-


[Column 1]
cutions in Missouri and Nauvoo; he had
alway been a pioneer, and was a member
of the Mormon Battalion. Singing and
benediction. Conference adjourned until
1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session. After the usual ex-
ercises, the general and stake officers
were sustained. Sister Mary B. Henry
was sustained as assistant secretary and
treasurer by vote.
	Sister Mary J. Hards reported Glines
wards society as being in fair condition.
	An essay by Sister Mary B. Henry of
Vernal ward society, was read—“Neglect
of duty.”
	Song from Mt. Dell.
	Sister Rhoda Goodrich spoke of the
different organizations of the Church;
urged the mothers to see that their boys
attend Deacon’s meeting; she also re-
ferred to the Church schools; advised all
to uphold those placed over them.
	Brother John N. Davis spoke of the
duties of a mother toward her children;
felt like assisting the Relief Society as
much as he could.
	Sister Olive Bingham said it was like
being back home to meet with the sisters
of Mt. Dell; she had lived among them
so long, been some time since she moved
away; she always felt well in laboring
with the sisters of the Relief Society and
doing all the good she could.
	Song from Vernal.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett made a few re-
marks in regard to the duties of the sis-
ters.
	President Colton thanked the sisters
of Mt. Dell for their hospitality; thought
that by taking the conferences to the
different wards it would be a benefit to
those that are not able to attend when it
was held at one place.
	Singing. Conference adjourned for
three months, to be held in Vernal. Ben-
ediction by A. K. Bartlett. 
