		NEBO STAKE.

	Quarterly Conference of the Nebo Stake
Relief Society, held in the Santaquin
meetinghouse. Stake President Eliza
J. Dixon, presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Sister
Dixon said she was pleased to meet with
the people of Santaquin, and very thank-
ful for every blessing we are enjoying.
But we could not do too much as mothers
in Israel in carrying on the work of the
Lord, that we should encourage one an-
other in the different organizations of the
Church in good works. Mothers should 
encourage the youth of Zion in attending
their meetings, and asked for the spirit
of God to be with us during the confer-
ence.
	Sister Wall, President of Santaquin Re-
lief Society, bid the sisters all welcome.
Bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel; prayed that all the young people
might seek for and obtain their testimony,
and reported Santaquin ward all well.
	A beautiful musical selection was given
by Ethel Tietjen.
	Sister Melissa Boyer reported Silver
ward in good condition, although a small
ward and constantly changing. Sister
Emma Jenkins reported Goshen organ-
ization complete and in good condition.
Sister Josephine Bennett reported Spring
Lake ward. Sisters were united and a 
good spirit prevailed.
	Song---"Maid of Athens," was beauti-
fully given by Christina Mace.
	Sister Clara Evans felt joy in meeting
with the sisters. Spoke of our temporal
and spiritual work; that it should move
along together. Read and explained the
meaning of theology.
	Sister Hannah Holliday recited a poem
entitled "Our Mission."
	The choir sang, and benediction was
offered.
	Afternoon session.---Conference met at
2 p. m., and the usual exercises were
given. Sister Pearce of Salem spoke of
the powers of the Priesthood and of wo-
men's work in the Relief Society.
	Sisters Mace and Olsen favored us with
a duet, "Life's Merry Morning."
	Sister Martha Kappel spoke on the 
Word of Wisdom. Exhorted sisters to
keep the Word of Wisdom and set a
proper example to their children and we
could then claim the blessings and hid-
den knowledge would be given unto us.
	Brother John Holliday said he had been
greatly interested in the remarks of the
sisters, and gave some good advice.
	Recitation by Elizabeth Openshaw.
	Brother German Elsworth spoke for a
few minutes. Sister Bertha Nelson re-
cited, "A Mortgage on the Farm."
	Sister Eliza Dixon felt well pleased
with the remarks that had been made and

[Column 2]
the good feeling that prevailed. Thanked
the people of Santaquin for what they
had done to make the conference a suc-
cess. Choir sang. Benediction by
Brother Butler.
