Guide Lessons. : i LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November. WAR AND THE ART OF WAR AMONG BOOK OF MORMON PEOPLES. It is disappointing to realize that the sword of Laban, used to obtain the sacred records that a nation might not perish in unbehef, should become the pattern of a sword used by the Nephites to defend themselves from the Lamanites. Yet such is the fact. The methods of warfare among the Nephites, rather primitive from our standpoint, grew more complex as time went on, until in Moroni we have a past master in the art of organizing and making war. Living today when all the brain and brawn of man has been brought together to take life, the mode of warfare of the Nephites and Lamanites presents many singular phases; but singular or otherwise, it was most deadly in its effect. They appear to have known nothing of gunpowder or high explosives of any sort, not to mention electricity or gas or other means common today. They used weapons of war made from metals they found in the earth: the sword, the javelin, bows, arrows, stones, slings and cimiters. These are some of the weapons named; there were doubtless others similar to bows, arrows, and slings, but not identical with them. Even in their last battle, Mormon tells us in the 6th chapter and 9th verse, that the sword, bow, arrow and ax were used by the Lamanites in their deadly onslaught. Both the Nephites and Jaredites, and finally the Lamanites made shields and helmets to protect the vital parts of the body, as did the warriors of Europe during the middle ages. But the equipment seemed to make little difference so far as results are concerned. Rude or otherwise, the Jaredites managed to exterminate themselves. The same fate followed the Nephites and came very nearly being the fortune of the Lamanites. How the words of Mormon reiterate and repeat themselves as he says: "Lamah had fallen with his ten thousand; and Gilgal had fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had fallen with his ten thousand;and Joneam had fallen with his ten thousand; and Camenihah, and Moronihah, and Antionum, and Shiblom, and Shem, and Josh, had fallen with their ten thousands each" (Mormon 6:14). GUIDE LESSONS. 593 In the Book of Ether we find the word million in relation to the slain. These ancient people were not so much noted for making trenches and dugouts for the protection of their armies as they were prone to build forts and breastworks. They built high walls which they picketed on top, taking the soil from the outer side so that a vast ditch or moat was made. This too reminds us of methods of warfare employed in the middle ages in Europe. Anyone who has ever been in continental Europe, will recall how familiar isthe sight of a wall, now sometimes included within the city, as the city has outgrown its former limits. These walls today are largely in ruin, yet serve to tell the story of a by-gone day. Book of Mormon people had many men of military distinction. From a comparatively large group we shall mention only Teancum, who always challenges admiration because of his valor; and his strict code of military honor; constantly we see the picture of him rushing ahead of the line of battle, seeking out the leaders of the Lamanites that he might slay them. With his own hands he slew Morianton, Amalickiah and Ammaron, yet in it all, how admirably just he was! Judging from all standpoints, we should perhaps conclude that Moroni was their greatest military genius. "Mormon," says Elder George Reynolds, in the Story of the Book of Mormon, "reorganized their armies, compelled more stringent discipline, introduced new tactics, developed a greatly superior system of fortifications, built towers and citadels, and altogether placed the defensive powers of the comimonwealth on a new and stronger footing." We wish now to turn to some of the descriptions of those battles that resulted in the extermination of both the Jaredites and the Nephites  this ancient history that reminds us of nothing so much as modem days. "And it came to pass when Coriantumr had recovered from his wounds he began to rememlber the words which Ether had spoken unto him. He saw that there had been slain by the sword nearly two million of his men and he began to sorrow in his heart; yea, there had been slain two million of mighty men and also their wives and their children (Ether 15:7). In the Russian-Japanese war we were content to talk of hundreds of thousands among the slain, but now at last we, too, have made the past, the barbarous past, as many were wont to call it, our own, so that now we only speak of millions. Lincoln L. West, a member of the Red Cross official observation party, sent under military escort to the trenches this spring, returns to tell us that France has lost one and a half million men and has one and a half milion men wounded. Aagin, in Ether 15:15, we are told: "And it came to pass that when we were all gathered together. every one to the army which he would, with their wives and their children; both men, women, and children being armed with weapons of war, having shields, and breastplates, and head-plates, and being clothed after the manner of war, they did march forth one against another, to battle; and they fought all that day. and conquered not." We have not yet heard of children being armed in the various countries, now at war; we have heard of mere youths forming component parts of the armies, but children have been direct as well as indirect victims of this war in all the countries overrun by the Central Powers. The Russian women actually entered the conflict, but that is not nearly so significant, from the standpoint of women, as that over seven hundred thousand women have lost their lives directly through this war, having been victims of the submarine, bombs and shrapnel. Never before have women been engaged behind the lines as they are today. In the second epistle of Mormon to his son Moroni we read, concerning the last wars of the Nephites: "And now I write somewhat concerning the sufferings of this people. For according to the knowledge which I have received from Amoron, behold, the Lamanites have many prisoners, which they took from the tower of Sherrizah; and there were men, women and children. "And the husbands and fathers of those women and children they have slain; and they feed the women upon the flesh of their husbands, and the children upon the flesh of their fathers; and no water, save a little, do they give unto them. "And notwithstanding this great abomination of the Lamanites, it doth not exceed that of our people in Moriantum. For behold, many of the daughters of the Lamanites have they taken prisoners; and after depriving them of that which was most dear and precious above all things, which is chastity and virtue; "And after they had done this thing, they did murder them in a most cruel manner, torturing their bodies even unto death; and after they have done this, they devour their flesh like unto the wild beasts, because of the hardness of their hearts; and they do it for a token of bravery. "O my beloved son, how can a people like this, that are without civilization; "(And only a few years have passed away, and they were a civil and a delightsome people;) "But O my son, how can a people like this, whose delight is in so much abomination, "How can we expect that God will stay his hand in judgment against us?" (Moroni 9:7-14.) GUIDE LESSONS. 595 To be sure, as yet we have no knowledge of human flesh being fed to prisoners, but we know that disease germs have been injected into their blood, and it has been said that women have been nailed to doors within churches, after the brutes into whose hands they have fallen have accomplished their wicked purposes. Nothing is clearer than that the Germans have no regard for the chastity of women. Their abominable edicts witness this fact, as also their most vile practices. Many magazine articles of recent date tell us of the outrages perpetrated on the wonmanhood of Belgium and France. The number of German babies to which French and Belgian women have given birth is one of the ugliest and most serious problems of the war. Thus history repeats itself. Thus it would seem that where wickedness flourishes, civilization must sooner or later perish from the earth. The Italian armies are taxed to the utmost to protect the art treasures of centuries, of the city of Venice, from the invading armies. We grieve today because our civilization is threatened by the wicked and bloodthirsty, and those who seek to make conquest of the earth. The history of, the Nephites, Jaredites and Lamanites combined, must go far to prove that apart from righteousness no civilization can hope to be permanent; that sooner or later the coveteous, angry passions of men will assert themselves in bloody battle, seeking to destroy all things worthy, with blood flowing as rivers, and nations dying or suffering to the very verge of extinction. I QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. What use did the Nephites make of the sword of Laban to assist in their national defense? \ 2. Compare war equipment of the present time with that of the peoples of the Book of Mormon. 3. Show that difference in the kind of equipment made no difference as to final results. 4. What did the Nephites and Jaredites wear to protect the vital parts of their bodies? 5. Show how the invention of gun powder and high explosives has changed methods of defense from the breastword to the trench. 6. How have children been made direct victims of this present war? 7. Discuss the extent to which they have been made indirect victims through starvation. 8. How have women been made direct victims of this war? How have they been made indirect victims? 9. Show how the chastity of woman in Book of JMormon times was violated just as it has been today. 10. What are we led to conclude will be the fate of any civilization, no matter how powerful and magnificent, when the people of the earth become wicked? LESSON n. Work and Business. Second Week in November. LESSON HI. Genealogy. ADDED OR SURNAMES THEIR ORIGIN. (See Chapter 9, Surname Book.) teachers' outline. Definition.  A surname is a permanent name added to the personal name. When families emerge into society, personal names are insufficient for identification. (a) Personal names are usually first compounded. (b) A nickname is often added, and if it becomes permanent and is handed down it then becomes a surname. (c) Sometimes people are surnamed for their place of residence. (d) Surnames come from offices or professions. (e) From trades and occupations. The Hebrew Customs. (a) Usually tribal surnames. (b) Place names. (c) Nicknames. LESSON statement. A surname is a permanent name added to the personal name. A surname is often the tribal or family name and is adopted from varying causes, as we shall see presently.
GUIDE LESSONS. 597 When families increased and finally settled in large cities it was impossible for people to find enough different personal names with which to distinguish themselves, and so they began to add either a sire name or a nickname, or named themselves from an office, a place of residence or a trade, followed by the first name, which took the place of the surname. The surname, however, did not really become such unless more than one generation bore the added name. At first personal names were compounded, that is, two personal names might be given to a child, or a temporary nickname might be added to his personal name, etc. If a nickname, such as Long or Short, Young or Old, Black or White or Red, Winter or Snow, or Crooked Leg (Cruikshank), became fastened to a person and his children were called by their personal names with the nickname added to it, the nickname then became a surnaine after the second generation. Sometimes people were surnamed from the places where they lived. This was one of the most frequent styles adopted by the Anglo-Saxons in the middle ages. For instance, a man who lived by a wood would be called John Atte Wood, and by and by the name would be John Atwood; or Atte Well, Atwell. Another form of the surname was taken by men or given to them because of the office or profession which they followed. John the Clerk would soon be John Clerk or Clark, while Thomas the Parson would be Thomas Parsons, or William the Wood Reeve would become William Woodruff, and Daniel the Dispenser would, after a time be known as Daniel Spencer. Nearly all surnames which come from offices or professions are Norman, because the Normans were the office holders in England for many centuries. The Anglo-Saxons were the trades people and they took their names from their trades. William the Cook, John the Taylor, Henry the Baker and David the Wheelwright, would become William Cook, John Taylor, Henry Baker and David Wheelwright. The Hebrews kept the tribal name added to the personal name and these soon became surnames. They also finally gave place names and nicknames as surnames. For instance, Simon Bar-Jonah was Simon of the tribe of Jonah; Simon, the Cyrene was Simon from Cyrene; and Simon the Zealot was Simon the Fanatic. The Romans had three forms of names: 1st, the personal name, which they called praenomen; 2nd, the tribal name or nomen; and 3rd, the surname or cognomen. Chinese Name System.  The Chinese kingdom adopted surnames nearly two centuries before Christ, and each family oi tribe carefully trained a genealogist to memorize and record all 
 vital data of the family to its utmost ramification. Twelve hundred years before Christ a Chinese king issued an edict which compelled all his subjects then living to make a verse and to take one word of the verse for each generation surname. These facts have been discovered recently concerning the Chinese people. Teutonic Name System.  All Anglo-Saxon countries have followed more or less closely the usual surname evolution, and we will discover that as we follow along in our lessons. The events following the Norman conquest of England introduced surnames into that kingdom and we take up in some detail the various surname forms of England as they illustrate the same habits and customs adopted by other Anglo-Saxon countries. Nearly every civilized country, the United States being the last, has framed laws to govern and control the formation of names and their legal adoption or change of individuals, comprising the name. QUESTIONS. When does it become necessary for society to adopt surnames? What is a nickname? When would a nickname become a surname? How do people get surnames from their place of residence? Give an illustration of an ofificial or professional surname. Give an illustration of a trade name. What can you say of Hebrew name customs? What can you say of Roman name customs? What can you say of the Chinese name system? Why should laws be enacted to regulate surnames? What is your own surname and where did it originate? Note.  Let the class leader set each person in the class to discovering all possible facts concerning the surname of each student. LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in November. CONSERVATION OF WOOL AND WOOLEN CLOTHING. Wool is the most important of the animal fibres used for clothing materials. Primarily, it is the hairy covering of the sheep, includedbutin certain goats' and of the classification camels' woolenhairy growth is sometimes materials. GUIDE LESSONS. 599 The great value of wool as a fibre is dvie to its strength, elasticity, and softness: it absorbs different dye-stuffs readily, and when woven it furnishes a great number of air spaces, thus rendering the clothing made from it very warm and light in weight. Because of these characteristics wool is chosen by the U. S. Government for the material of a majority of the articles of wearing apparel and the blankets of our soldiers. For this reason, and because many sheep have been killed by recent hard winters, and many of their feeding lands have been converted into farm lands, the people of the U. S. are confronting the winter with a comparatively meagre supply of wool on the market. However, there are many ways in which the house wife ma}' meet this shortage and clothe her family and herself as comfortably and as well as they formerly have been clothed. Much good material, in many instances far better in quality than any that may now be purchased, is laid away in chests and store-rooms. Eevery bit of this woolen material should be wisely used, and no new wool should be purchased until the material on hand has been made into suitable condition for wearing. Woolen dresses, of soiled, worn, or of unsuitable design or color should be dyed or ripped up, cleaned, .sponged and pressed. They may be turned and made over, combining, if necessary with some other material of harmonious color and texture, into dresses that will probably last through the season or longer. Suits, both men's and women's, which have given full service for the grown-ups may be remodeled into outer garments for the boys and girls. The life of these garments, as well as of the new ones, may be prolonged very materially by proper care. Woolen dresses, suits, and coats, should be brushed after each wearing, carefully hung on coat-hangers, and put away out of the dust. Covers of paper-cambric, made to slip over the handle and to button below the bottom of the garment, protect the garments which are worn infrequently. All undergarments should be kept in constant repair, darning worn places as soon as they begin to appear, and darning or patching the.small hole before it has a chance to grow. Worn urdergarments, b}^ careful planning in placing of the pattern on the best portion of the garment may be cut down into smallersized undergarments, saving all trimmings for future patching. Worn knitted sw^eaters should be raveled, the yarn wound into skeins washed, and dried, it may then be reknitted nito smaller sweaters, caps, or scarfs, alone or in combination with other yarns of suitable color or weight. Often from two worn sweaters, a good one with a cap to match can be evolved. If the yarn does not need washing, when raveled, the skein may be 
 heatecl in a steamer or double-boiler and then hung to dry; this process will remove all the kinks from the first knitting. The solution of the problem of the mother, who finds it necessary to purchase new materials for the children's clothes, is in the use of mill ends. Naturally, when the supply of wool is so short, the garments made from wool in the different percentages are correspondingly high in price. But by going to the knitting factories and carefully selecting short lengths of material of weight, length and color suited to the garment to be made, material of good quality and at a nominal price may be secured. And by careful placing of the pattern, cutting, and a short time spent in the making, underclothes, dresses, trousers, sweaters, and other garments of good material will be the result. To sponge new woolen material, to prevent shrinkage and spotting of garment after it is made up, the material should be spread on a wet towel or long piece of muslin, and the two rolled together as tightly as possible; after twelve hours, the material should be pressed on the wrong side with a dry cloth laid over the material. To remove grease spots from woolen material, sponge with warm water and white naphtha soap, placing a bath towel imder the spotted place. Rinse with luke-warm water, and press. Soap bark, soaked and strained, is good for cleaning a whole piece of material that is to be dipped in the solution. Fuller's earth sprinkled over stains, caused by contact of the material with the oil of the skin, and allowed to remain several days before being brushed out, will usually remove all trace of the stain. To press garments, place a heavy cloth, wrung dry from water over the garments; use a hot iron and.press until almost dry. Hang on hanger to dry. Hot irons directly on the goods leaves marks of the irons as well as weakens the fibre of the material. The shine of worn materials can often be removed by sponging with coffee or vinegar diluted with water, following by pressing and then brushing against the nap. The woman who uses every means at hand to make the garments she has serve to the limit of their usefulness and then uses mill ends for the rest, is fulfilling her patriotic duty in respect to the woolen situation at the present time. She not only is establishing habits of thrift, but she is setting free a greater portion of the available supply of wool for the protection of our soldiers who must brave much exposure in the fighting of our battles, and she will be saving money, which may be profitably invested in War Saving Stamps or Liberty Bonds to help carry on this war to victory for right and liberty. To the Presidents of Relief Societies and Members of Choirs Dear Sisters: We are happy to tell you that the Relief Society Song Book, which has been prepared with much skill and thought, will be ready for distribution in a.short time. A great effort has been made to include in the collection found in this book, songs for every occasion, for congregational singing and for Relief Society choir singing, etc. The Music Committee has endeavored to include so wide a list of hymns and songs that it will meet every need of the Relief Society throughout the Church. The book is divided into two parts; the first contains a selection of hymns from all our Latter-day Saint hymn books, suitable for our ward and stake meetings; the second part has been compiled especially for choirs with soprano and alto parts, for use in wards where such choirs have been organized. Special stress has been laid upon restricting the range of the songs. Some of our best and most popular hymns have been recast to permit the shortening of range so that the ordinary voice can encompass them. The Music Committee of the General Board of the Relief Society, with President Emmeline B. Wells herself in attendance, have gone carefully over the work in detail. Following are expressions from the Music Committee: "The selections in the book are from the very best authors and composers, and while the airs have not been changed the music has been so simplified that it can be played by any of our young girls who are able to play the simplest music. I am very well pleased wtih the book and glad to know that we are at last going to have a book which will meet the requirements of our Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. "Phebe Y. Beatie, 'Chairman Music Committee." I am glad to know that our Relief Society sisters will have a song book with music suitable for their voices, for we have long felt the need of a book of this kind. "Edna May Davis." "The musical needs of our women have now been met by furnishing them a Relief Society Song Book filled with the sweet and simple melodies suited to their voices and also suitable music for all Relief Society occasions, both congregational and choir. "Janette a. Hyde." Send your orders to Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society 28 Bishop Building Single copies. 75c; by the dozen, $7.80. Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, 1918-19  The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and |  Nursing will begin its fourteenth year, Monday, Sep| I tember 16, 1918, Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building. |  Term eight months.  |  This course consists of general instructions in |  nursing, emphasizing Home Care of the Sick, with | practical demonstrations, seven and one-half hours |  per week. It includes in addition, a series of lectures |  and practical demonstrations in Invalid Cooking, First |  Aid Work, Hydrotherapy, Sterilization, and lectures | I on Elementary Hygiene, Public Health, Contagious |  Diseases, Drugs and Solutions, Prevention and Treat| I ment of Diseases. These lecture courses, which are |  given successively and cover a period of five hours a |  week, will be given by prominent physicians, surgeons  and other specialists. Each student of this course | I will be required to do at least twenty-five hours of |  field work in practical nursing during the term under |  the direction of the school. Tuition $25.00 cash,  thirty days service charity nursing. Tuition to be |  paid and contracts to be signed upon registration. |  For further information, address |  MRS.