RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PAST.
	Sometimes my fancy wanders back
	Adown my life's long trodden track,
	And distant scenes of long ago,
	When my young heart was all aglow,
	Come back as beautiful and bright
	As when at first they gave delight.
	
	Indulging in my waking dream,
	I linger by the crystal stream,
	And watch the pretty speckled trout
	Bask in the sun, or frisk about;
	Perhaps would dip my rod with care, 
	Some unsuspecting trout to snare.

	The old green lane—I love it yet— 
	Where daisy, primrose, violet
	Beneath the hedgerows richly bloom
	And scent the air with sweet perfume,
	While robin sings his sweetest song
	To cheer me as I pass along.

	O, happy were those summer days,
	And beautiful the sunny braes
	Where we, loved brother, often strayed,
	Or loitered in the sylvan shade.
	Anon would seek a change of scene
	And race and frolic on the green.

	In autumn we ran off together
	And wandered through the blooming heather—
	The honey-scented heather, where
	We knew the ripe bilberries were.
	How grand the heather-bells around !
	How sweet the berries which we found !

	The village school—I see it still,
	Where first I learned to wield the quill;
	My schoolmates still seem boys as when
	Their years were only eight or ten.
	How changed ! were I to see them now
	With hoary head and wrinkled brow.
	
	In later years, with cheerful toil,
	I helped to cultivate the soil;
	The varied labors of the farm
	Had such a fascinating charm
	That passing time ne'er drooped his wing
	In summer, autumn, winter, spring.

	But, oh, in riper years there came
	A longing after wealth and fame;
	And so I left the dear old home
	Resolved through foreign lands to roam
	And in those distant climes so fair
	I built my castles in the air.


Most of my hopes have been destroyed,
Yet life has not been all a void;
God's providence has been my stay
Throughout my life's eventful day,
And glowing hopes of future rest
Still soothe and cheer my troubled breast.
							Selected.


[Column One]
HOMESPUN TALKS TO MOTHERS.
	The editorial in the Aug. No. of the Juvenile
has been much in my mind this last few days.
And in connection with the subject therein
treated, viz: that of proper and legitimate
amusements for the young, comes the important
one of legitimate and yet entertaining read-
ing. Because you my dear overlooked over-
worried sister have little or no inclination to
read anything at all, it is not a corollary that
your young fresh and restless daughter feels or
even should feel as you do. If she has the
making of a bright intelligent superior woman
such as you and I would be proud of, she will
not only want to know how to clothe and feed
her body in a cleanly healthful way and to 
keep her home in a neat attractive manner,
but she will also want, insensibly crave, to fill
her mind with all the good and beautiful knowl-
edge in the Universe.
	What has proven the most effective style of
teaching the young? The Froebel or Kindergar-
ten system as it is called in this country.What
are its peculiar methods? To please and interest
the readers, at the same time teaching some
valuable lesson or truth. Indeed have we not
the notable example of our Savior who taught
His disciples by means of the Parable? He was
keenly alive to the importance of driving home
the truths He would inculcate by the aid of
pointed and graphic illustrations.
	It is so with us today. We love to attend
the theatre, to listen to a discourse beautified
by apt quotations, metaphors, and anecdotes as
well as illustrations.
	Mothers, you and I cannot afford to slight
or neglect this home-truth. Our daughters,
giddy, happy, restless creatures that they are,
will learn more lessons from the theatres they
visit, the books they read, than from all the
sermons or rebukes they may hear.
	Much that has been taught them in their
childhood of truth, morality, cleanliness and
even faith will remain indelibly fixed in their
minds. But you have forgotten or overlooked
the fact that with most women all these things
are swept aside if her love happens to be
placed on an unworthy object. Love is a 
most powerful agent in any woman's mind.
And when it comes to the mind of a young
thoughtless inexperienced girl, it is an agent
that enters in as it were and possesses the whole
being.
	Now if the mind of the girl has been en-
gaged, her hopes centered, and her ideals placed
on the love generally pictured in the popular
novel, she is very much in the condition of a
ship at sea without rudder, compass or guide.
And if some fellow jumps aboard, offering to
pilot her into a haven of bliss, she is eager to
find in him all the delightful fascinations of
the novel-hero. The nearer he approaches this
ideal the more dangerous is he to her peace of
mind.
	Perhaps he too is steeped in the pernicious
literature and thenceforth ensues a youthful
comedy which is sometimes well-a-day trans-
formed into a bitter tragedy, the two awaken-
ing to a long bitter tragedy, the two awaken-
ing to a long life of misery as the result of
hasty ill-considered matrimony or perhaps
worse.
	To such a girl a good, honest, downright
lad with no “darlings” “dream of my life,"
"angel-loves" at his tongue's end is a tame com-
mon-place poor spirited fellow who cannot win
[Column Two]
or keep a single affectionate thought from the
novel-spoilt miss.
	Now there is a remedy for all this. There
are novels whose moral is pure and whose per-
usal is a blessing and benefit. The greatest
harm to our girls is not done by the novel
which portrays vice or crime with even too
glaring a hand, for her own maidenly instincts
is protection enough against such as these.
Ah no! Far worse, more deadly in its effects is
the novel in which every word uttered or writ-
ten is of the most refined and chaste character.
But which, first rousing those tender sensibili-
ties of the young mind, exciting all those only 
half-understood and half-acknowledged long-
ings and feelings in the breast of a pure
maiden, by descriptive and delicately veiled
scenes of love and passion, then proceeds to
preach from the text, "Behold here is love,
sweet, passionate and soul-enthralling. It is
worth a whole life of after-misery or after-
shame just to be filled for once with such
delicious bliss."
	Delicious Judge!
	The whole text is—
	“Life for love is well lost.”
	Every event, every word, every scene, every
character is conceived and planned for the
express purpose of the happy culmination of
the two principal characters of the book.
		*	*	*	*	*	*	
	Yet must I assert that the novel is good, very
good in its place, a more powerful teacher to the
young developing susceptible mind than  the
hearth or the pulpit, but it should be most care-
fully selected.
	If your girl craves the intellectual food
and entertainment, she will find means some
way to gratify it.
	Hearing a young married woman speak of 
one of Ouida's novels, I asked her in surprise
if she had been allowed to read such books by
her parents.
	"Oh no," she replied, "mother and father
strictly forbade my reading it."
	"And wherefore then did you see or hear
of it?"
	"Oh, Ma and Pa read this book twice, both of
them. But they would not let me read a
word. You may be sure that just as soon as I 
was married I bought and read that book the
very first thing I did!"
	Consistency!
	Then, parents don't read unless to ascertain
the character of it, any book unfit to put in
your children's hands. But at the same
time supply them with a proper amount of
light reading, encouraging them to gradually
incline to that which is more substantial and
good. History, biography, and the lighter
sciences will or can be gradually taken up
with pleasure as well as great profit.
	Theatres should be as carefully chosen and 
selected as books, for they are even more
powerful teachers of good or bad morals.
	Seems to me we need a Lamanite prophet
Samuel or Abinadi to come and cry out our
sins from the house tops. Do you think he 
would fare much better at our hands, than
he did at the hands of the Nephites?
	Well, I have blushed for our people's in-
consistences. Mothers, shall we do better?
Shall we look to these things a little closer? 
	At a future time I may have something
more to say on this subject.
