LINES.
Addressed to Sister Elizabeth Casto of Manti.

God bless thee, sister, pressing on thy way
With double burden on thy shoulders laid;
A sentinel thou standest night and day,
With human weakness on thy Savior stayed;
Thou  knowest He is full of hope and strength,
As well as love and mercy, truth and grace;
And thou hast learned to grasp His hand at length
And walk in light outshining from His face.


Thy cares and sorrows, many though they be,
Thy burdens, great and heavy to be borne,
Bring not a frown upon thy forehead free
And not a murmur to thy lips is known.
Thy steadfast heart, by faith made strong and brave,
Accepts thy lot and upward looks to Him
Whose arm extends the trustful soul to save,
Whose loving kindness never groweth dim.

Oh, blessings on thy head with silver crowned,
The queenly head of one who walks in light,
And sheds a heavenly atmosphere around,
As radiated from a jewel bright.
A mother thou in Israel, and they
Who grow around thee yet shall gladly rise
To bless thee on thy holy, heavenward way,
And scan thy life with reverential eyes.

Oh, blessings on thy lovely, patient hands
That minister in daily works of love.
As constantly as time’s slow falling sands;
And to thy loved one very angels prove;
That, also, filled with gifts eternal, fall
Upon the heads of Zion’s daughters, come
From far and near, in answer to the call
Of that dear Shepherd leading Israel home.

Oh blessings on thy busy, willing feet
Which go and come at duty's stern behest,
And never falter though 'mid cold or heat,
When errands of sweet love are made their guest.
And rich reward awaits them in the day
When in the clouds thy Savior shall descend
With all the sanctified, for in the way
Those feet shall fly to meet thy Lord and Friend.

And blessings on thy tender, faithful heart
That ever felt for all who weep and mourn,
That on this earth hath borne a faithful part,
And by thy trust in God hath been upborne.
He loveth thee, and hath inscribed thy name
In living light within His Book of Life.
How fade all earthly gain, all earthly fame,
Before this heavenly gift Eternal Life.
						    LU. DALTON.
Manti, July 19th 1889.


[Column 1]
HEPHZIBAH
        VI.
	The sobbing, moaning, murmuring sea
	    Brought to her heart a sadness, a distress;
	That seem’d prophetic of her destiny,
	    O'er-shadowing her future happiness.

    After Hepsie had spoken so much like an
oracle the girls seemed to pay greater deference
to her opinion on all matters under discussion
in their private "club," and the child was more
than ever surprised.  Jane who had been so
sympathetic at the first announcement of
Hepsie's description of the life of "ministers'
wives," took her under her especial protection
as it were, and as the other girls held Miss
Jane in high esteem, it gave "the little one,"
some prestige.  Miss Jane W. was the youngest
daughter of a very wealthy man, who in addi-
tion to the title of Colonel—was a Squire too
in his native town and a representative to the
Legislature in the City of Boston;  and these
imaginative schoolgirls fancied Boston the
nearest place to heaven. So Miss Jane who
was very unpretentious in her way and never
had an opinion to give, was nevertheless an in-
fluential friend.
    It afterwards transpired that in matters per-
taining to their beaux the girls always con-
sulted Hepsie, and Miss Ray with all her ar-
rogance was quite confidential with "the girl in
pantalettes;" telling her much of her prefer-

[Column 2]
ences and roguerries and always binding her to
secrecy.  All the girls came confidentially to
Hepsie, perhaps because she was so childish,
and they felt they must tell some one, as girls
do when they begin "to fall in love," and even
women are not so much better in this respect.
Hepsie was rather shy of giving opinions after
her first outbreak, but she was intrusted with
many secrets, and as she had none of her own
to give, or to keep,they were not at all burden-
some.  It was another charter of experience
for her; she learned to be wise, for had she not
been very cautious, serious trouble might have
arisen between these romantic school-girls, who
kept up such flirtations for pastime.  The girls
trusted her implicitly and hearing from all
sides, she was able to make such suggestions
as seemed wonderful to them, not knowing how
well "the little one" was posted.
    Everything went on about the same,for some
time, at the school, and at the parsonage.  As
Hepsie advanced in her studies and developed
in other ways correspondingly, Mrs. Grovesner
opened her heart more and more to her, and
confided to her keeping many things that to
one quick to discern, and intuitive by nature
were like new revelations day by day.  Hepsie
began to think any condition preferable to be-
ing the wife of a village clergyman, with con-
stant burdens laid upon her to bear thanklessly,
though this position had already been proposed
as the most appropriate for one like her.  The
husband always to be considered,  the wife
seldom if ever.  In her heart she resolved never
to marry a minister.  Still nothing could have
been better for a child so peculiarly organized,
than the mental and moral strength given to
her highest and best aspirations, through the
intimate association with this cultivated, re-
fined and accomplished woman, who had also
the time to devote to her training.  It counter-
balanced in a great degree the excessive in-
dulgence of the old Major, and in later years
long after Mrs. Grovesner had been laid in the
silent tomb, Hepsie had cause to remember
with gratitude her wise teachings and instruc-
tions, and had it not been for the balance of
character thus attained she might have grown
morbidly disconsolate, under the accumula-
tion of sorrows that for a time hung over her
devoted head.
    Hepsie studied so hard and was withal so
delicate that Mrs. H. decided to give her the
benefit of the sea air at vacation, and indeed
some change was "absoulutely necessary," as
Mrs. Grovesner had informed her mother, and
to take her home would only have been to  call
up old memories, that it was really thought
had died out, so engrossed did the child appear
to be in the present.  Once having made up
her mind, Mrs. H. though she could ill afford
to spare the means, was yet firmly determined
upon making the journey; and Mrs. Grovesner
gave  Hepsie special instruction as to her
"manners;"  feeling anxious that Mrs.  H.
should be pleased with her discipline, as well
as having an ambition that the little girl
should be perfect in her deportment on her
own account, for she loved the child, and had
already predicted a bright career for her  little
favorite.  Mrs. G. undertook all preparations
in the way of dress, which was very little how-
ever, yet to Hepsie it  was quite an exciting
affair, as she had never before been  to a dress-
maker's establishment, and  it was about  as
trying as her first day at the high school.  She
went through it all like one in a dream, and


when she came home was so bewildered, she
could not have told whether the dresses she
had been measured for, were green, purple,
red or blue.
	The summer vacation came and Mrs. Hatha-
way did not keep Hepsie waiting long,but a day
or two after school closed she made her appear-
ance at the parsonage ready for the journey.
Poor little Hepsie, her pent-up emotions were
too much for her, and instead of kissing and
embracing her mother in the regular way she
fainted in her arms.  It was quite a scene, but
both the ladies were undemonstrative, and so
the affair was passed over with but little com-
ment.  Hepsie went to bed early after the ex-
citement, as they were to start in good time
the following morning; and indeed in the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner's house, every one kept
goo hours.  Hepsie was told daily, that
“Early to bed and early to rise,” was a habit
that must be cultivated, and she knew well it
was a regular custom in New England homes;
but some way it did not suit her, she was erratic
in her habits and tastes, and was very unwilling
to submit to the severe rules of life laid down
for her guidance.  It would scarcely do to tell
how she passed the hours before retiring after
being sent up to bed, during the time she was
under the careful scrutiny of Mrs. G., but
suffice to say, she seldom went to bed without
an hour or two of rehearsal either in reading or
reciting.  She was also given to scribbling, and
child as she was, she had already written
“verses;” though they were securely hidden
away in her trunk and she felt too sensitive
to submit them to the eye of any one, not even
Mrs. Grovesner, and as for her own mother, she
stood too much in awe of her, even to think of
doing such a thing.
	The two friends so long separated had much
to say to each other that night for many events
had transpired since they last met, but the
conversation soon turned upon Hepsie and
everything else was waived.  The child’s future
was as it were analyzed beforehand, but with
all their far-sightedness, they did not discern
the realities that fairly crowded upon her
within a very few years.
	The morning was a fair one, and when the
lumbering old stage drove up, Hepsie felt a
great sob rise in her throat almost choking her;
she could not speak to her dear friend; a pre-
sentiment that she was parting from her for-
ever came over her, and she went out of the
quaint, old house silent as death.  The good-
bye’s were hurried, for the coachman was im-
patient and they were soon on their way.
They passed through some charming scenery,
and village after village,each one prettier than
the other, and as Mrs. H. was familiar with
the places, she gave Hepsie interesting descrip-
tions, so the time passed swiftly away.  Night
was coming on and Mrs. H. told Hepsie they
would stay at a friend's house in B. as she did
not like “putting up at a tavern.”
	It happened that the house where they spent
the night, was another of those old-fashioned
ones, just to Hepsie’s liking; and tired as she
was she took notice of the quaint, odd furni-
ture and crockery ware, and it was all
engraven upon her memory.  It was her first
“out,” for the other journey had been to school
and she was in too much sorrow then at the
loss of her grandpa, to appreciate either scenery
or architecture.  Hepsie was elated at the idea
of traveling, and seeing fresh sights; there had
been so much sameness in her school life, and
she had such passionate longings for “the far
away or the far-off.”
	The next day they arrived at their destina-
tion and found all in readiness for their com-
ing.  It was not a bit like what Hepsie had
anticipated, and she was sorely disappointed
over it, but when she had rested a little, and
her mother took her to the seashore, she was
enchanted; her joy knew no bounds, her spirits
[Column Two]
were so exuberant that she was scarcely able
to control her emotions; and when she saw the
ladies and gentlemen day after day promenad-
ing leisurely along the beach, she wondered
how they could keep so quiet and self-con-
tained.	
	The ocean had a peculiar effect upon her;
she could not have described it, but it was like
a fascination or a spell, and awakened poetic
emotions that had never been called forth in
her regular school-life; in fact it had been the
special aim of her tutors and friends, to keep
her under control; here was an expression or a
sympathy with her emotional nature.  The
murmur of the sobbing sea answered to some
tender chord that quivered in her soul, and
the vibration was electrical in its effect.
Sauntering on the beach in the twilight she
often felt that in the uncertain future the
ocean would in some way, she could not com-
prehend now, be associated with her life-history;
and so indeed it proved. Not from any ac-
quaintance formed there, however, for she was
still too young for “affairs of the heart,” if in-
deed her mother had not been her daily escort,
but there was little danger of young men wish-
ing to show the slightest preference, while the
girls’ mothers were on the alert.  However the
sea shore is said to be the very place for love-
making and it does indeed seem fraught with
all the sublimely tender and sympathetic in
the nature and in the heart of humanity.
Hepsie however had love affairs, serious ones
too, at a very tender age; and therefore the
patient reader, who perchance thinks this very
tame and prosy will find ere long, “a genuine
love story,” decidedly pathetic, and by no
means uninteresting.
			[To be continued.]


