						MATTIE W.


[Column 1]
	﻿LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
		BY M. J. TANNER.
			[Continued.]
	Monday June 15, 1885. Out again: How
I love to travel: It seems to infuse fresh vigor
in my life. Everything is new and novel, and
there is an excitement in it that is very fasci-
nating. The country is pleasant and the
scenery constantly changing. The houses we
pass are all built of frame and painted white.
The latest style is olive-green trimmed with
red. Here is one pea-green and a slate-colored
one. Many houses are poor looking and have
no paint. On, on we go, past farms and sta-
tions. Here the land is rocky. Large piles of
stones are scattered about where they have been
gathered from off the land, and grass and
weeds form a border around them. It is in-
teresting to see the people who get on the train
at different towns. Cousin Emily and I were
weighed while waiting at the depot. I weighed
117 lbs. Gained about 8 lbs., since leaving
home.
	Rochester, 10 a. m. More like the eastern
cities judging by the depot. Thickly settled,
high houses, covered depot, buildings all of 
brick. I am so busy taking notes that I do
not notice that every one has left the car un-
til a man tells me that I must change cars here.
I look around and see that I am the only per-
son left, gather up my things in haste and get
on another car as directed. I seat myself and
in looking over my belongings find that I have
left my parasol. It is too late to get it now for
the car is moving. I once more take out my
note book and pencil. 
	Near Lyons, pleasantly situated on a hill, is 
a large brick building which is pointed out to
me as an asylum for idiots. And here is Lyons. 
11 a. m., of which little can be seen as we run
[Column 2]
in between two rows of freight cars. The car
is full and I have as a seat mate a gentleman
who has traveled all night coming from
Chicago, he is sleeping and I have no one to
tell me about the country.
	Syracuse 12.15. Twenty minutes for dinner.
I have my lunch and eat it on the train as do
some others. I see by the sign that it is 130
miles to Schenectady. Syracuse is a large city
but there is little to be seen from the depot,
and one cannot tell much about people and
places on so slight an acquaintance. I can look
into the dining room and see the people eating.
Collared waiters are passing straw-berries.
Some ladies are walking on the platform
dressed in lovely costumes. As we start out
we pass through what appears to be Main
Street. On each side are very high brick
houses, and a continuous line of stores, mil-
linery shops, business houses and churches. 
Near the suburbs stands "Wards Temperance
Hotel.” It looks small and poorly patronized.
Out in the country, we pass large hop farms.
	Oneida 1.20 p. m. There is a beautiful lawn
around the depot and the word Oneida laid in
white cobble stones.
	Rome, 1.55. Here people crowd on the 
train, more than there are seats for. The
weather is hot. My neighbor gives his seat to
a lady.
	Utica, 2.20. Here several people leave the 
train. 3.15. We are traveling through Herkimer
Co., celebrated for its large dairies. Through
the valley of the Mohawk River. It is a 
beautiful country. Change cars at Schenectady.
getting a ticket to Caldwell where they tell me
I will have to stay all night and go down the
lake on a steamboat in the morning to Balton.
I meet a  pleasant young lady who is going to
Caldwell and tells me something about the
route and what hotel to stay at in Caldwell.
The face of the country changes. Ballstown
seems burried in hills and woods.
	Saritoga. Change cars, waiting about half
an hour. Here at the depot is the "United
States Hotel,” the largest house I think I ever
saw. The two sides which we see from the
platform reach a block each way. I walk down
the road to the corner and find that it extends
along the third side of the block. I am afraid
to take time to explore any farther. Many
people get off here for it is a famous resort for
the world of fashion and must, no doubt allure
many adventurers. I think I should not like
to stay here. We travel on and change cars
at Fort Edward where I part with my com-
panion. The country grows more hilly and
thicker wooded as we go on.
	Glens Falls—Caldwell.  Here is the end of
the road, for we are at the head of the beautiful
and far famed Lake George, and twilight is 
gathering around us. A steamboat stands at
the landing which connects with depot but it
will not go until morning. It is 8 o'clock and
I turn to go toward the cab stand after getting
the above information. I see a big, burly,
pleasant looking man in an old felt hat, look-
ing something after the fashion of the boys hats
at home, with the rim lapped down, holding a
whip in his hand. I take him for a cabby and
ask which cab will take me to the American
Hotel. He says he does not know, and I pass
 on. I wish I had asked him if he knows any-
one by the name of Putney. Still it would be
useless as they will not expect me until I reach
Balton where they will be sure to meet me to-
morrow. But Oh, how I do hate to stop at a
hotel among strangers. I feel so shrinking and
diffident away off here alone. If the boat had
only gone down tonight how nice it would
have been. However there is no time now for
regrets, I must hasten to secure a cab before
they are gone. It would not be pleasant walk-
ing through town in search of a hotel. I reach
the line of cabs and ask for the American 
Hotel. A cabby takes my satchel and seats


[Column 1]
﻿me in the last cab on the line. Several delays
occur and finally we are just starting out when
a voice from the outside asks if Mrs. Myron
Tanner is in here. I say that is my name and
ask if he has come for me. He replies that
he has and I get out of the cab thinking at
the time that the American Hotel has lost one
customer. He tells me to wait on the plat-
form while he brings the horse around. I recog-
nize in him the man I spoke to on the platform.
Presently he appears with a buckboard of
ancient and uncertain appearance drawn by a
horse which to ride after might lay one liable to
prosecution for cruelty to animals My heart
fails me for a moment and I feel that possibly
I am in a “delima.” However, I yield to the
force of circumstances and allow him to help
me into the vehicle and while we are being
whirled away he very politely informes me
that he is Caleb. I am glad to hear it and
kindly enquire what our relationship may be.
He says he is Caleb Putney son of my husband’s
Aunt Maria, and tells me that he has a brother
and two sisters. In the meantime darkness
is gathering around us and we have a ride of
ten miles before us. I enquire if the road is
good and receive an affirmative answer. There
is no moon and the sky is cloudy, as we enter
the woods and drive between rows of tall trees
it is sometimes so dark that we cannot see the
horse. We necessarily travel rather slowly,
and our long and somewhat lively conversation
is frequently interrupted by an apostraphy to
the horse. “Get up there you old lazy if you
don’t go faster I shall have to whip you dread-
ful hard.”
	I am asked many questions about Utah and
in return for information given am made ac-
quainted with the history of the family at home.
There had been a family council held about
coming to meet me. “Father” said I would
come up on the boat in the morning and they
would meet me at the landing. But he thought
I would not like to stay at a hotel among
strangers, which I assure him I was decidedly
averse to.
	The seat of our conveyance has scarcely any
back and he is very anxious lest I should go
to sleep and fall off, and what shall he do with
me if I fall and break my neck. Box me up
and send me back to Utah, I say, but he
would rather send me back alive, and so en-
joines me to be very careful not to fall, even
offering, if I think there is any danger, to hold
me on. Whenever there is a lull in the con-
versation he enquires if I am sleepy and en-
joines me not to fall off. I am certainly not
sleepy. The situation is so novel, the surround-
ings so strange and the air so bracing after the
hot day’s ride, and the conversation of my
companion so (what shall I say) exhilerating
that altogether I seem possessed of a spirit of
fun, and almost fancy myself a girl again.
	I learn that he is the only one of his fathers
children that has married though David and
Rebecka are both older than he. That he has
five children living and has burried one. That
his girls are dreadful good singers. That his
mother is a dreadful good woman. That his
horse is dreadful poor. Father would not let
his horse come because it was afraid of the
train. He has no horse, but a yoke of cattle
and the boy claims them. He also has some
sheep and the boy claims them. I see some
water and ask if that is Lake George. No
that is only “the pond.” He will take me to
Lake George in the morning. I hear a coarse
grum voice and ask “what is that?” Why!
that is a bull-frog. Did I never hear a bull-
frog before? I supposed I never had if that
was the kind of noise they made. Our frogs in
Utah made a different noise. They were a
small green frog. “Am I afraid?” “Oh no,
not of a bull-frog.” But I am beginning to
think the ride “dreadful” long, for I am
getting “dreadful” tired. He thinks it must
[Column 2]
be getting dreadful late and wonders if the girls
will be up. We get home at last, 11.15 p. m.
find the girls up and supper waiting. We sit
down to supper and he asks the blessing. The
first blessing I have heard since leaving home,
though my friends all profess religion. It gives
me a very comfortable homelike feeling. His
father gets up to welcome me and after supper
I am shown to a clean comfortable room and I
go to rest feeling that I am among friendly,
good people. Caleb’s home is a mile farther.
	Balton June 16,1885.—Get up late this
morning feeling weary after my long ride. I
am introduced to Caleb’s mother, who is a tall
slim elderly woman, very quiet and pleasant in
her ways. She gives me a kind welcome and
is glad to see one of her sister’s family. The
men are all gone to their work and after
breakfast Rebecka, or as she is called in the
family, Becky Ann goes down to the pond
with me. It is called the Trout Lake, and is
a pretty body of water two miles long and half
a mile wide surrounded with trees. Their home
is only a short distance from the bank but
owing to the thick growth of bushes we cannot
see it from the house. I think I should like to
see the frog that makes such a great noise but
he is rather shy and we cannot find one.  We
take a walk in the woods and pick winter-
green. The fragrant leaves of which are tender
and sweet, the berries are nearly gone but now
and then a red berry rewards our search.
	After dinner Caleb comes over and gets his
father’s horse and buggy and takes me to Lake
George. It is a pleasant ride through the
woods of about two and a half miles. The
country here is all hills, and woods, with here
and there a rock thrown in. The rock is black
granite and ranges from the size of a trunk to
the size of a house, or as the boy said “about
as big as a lump of chalk,” which may be quite
as definite. We call at the old homestead
that Father Tanner used to own, and where
my husband was born. The lady of the
house, Mrs. Vandenberg is very pleasant and
shows us through all the rooms and tells us the
alterations that have been made. The kitchen
and woodshed, (everybody here has a wood-
shed well filled with stove wood) has been
taken from the west side and built on the
south end, making the whole house face the
street which runs east of the house, between it
and the Lake. The portico is taken away and
a porch built the whole length, which makes a
lovely place to sit in the afternoon, with the
beautiful lake spread out before us and the
mountains, thickly covered with trees on the
opposite side. The house has been newly
weatherboarded and painted white. Since
Father Tanner left there with his family fifty
years ago, considerable of the land has been
sold in small lots and quite a village now
stands on what used to be known as the Tanner
Farm. A large hotel stands on the bank of
the lake a few rods east of the house, known
as the “Balton House,” and a steamboat land-
ing is made there. Mrs. V. takes me down to
the lake and shows me through the hotel.
From the observatory we have a fine view of
the surrounding country. She invites me to
spend a few days with her and visit various
points of interest. We go from there and call
on Morgan Tanner, a grandson of my hus-
band’s uncle, Pardon Tanner. He is of medium
size, dark complexion with keen black eyes,
about thirty years of age and a widower. I
tell him I am looking up family history and he
promises to help me all he can. From there
we go to Green Island. It once belonged to
the Tanner estate. It is now laid out in parks
and groves and a fine hotel, and some cottages
are built there as it is a fashionable summer
resort. It comprises sixty-five acres of land;
has a steamboat landing and is connected with
the mainland by a bridge. It is called the
Sagamore, and is certainly a lovely summer
[Column 3]
retreat. Little boats are kept there for rowing
on the lake, which is certainly a very pleasant
pastime. A steamboat comes puffing toward
the landing and our horse gets restive, so we
get in the buggy and start for home. She
trots nicely while she hears the engine and we
think it would be well to have a steamboat be-
hind us all the way. We stop at the post-
office to get some stamps and mail some letters.
Caleb introduces me to several of his friends
and they all have some joke to make about
Utah. It rains a little before we get home.


