WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 	-	-	    September 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿THE BURNT CITY.
	To be in Spokane just after the great fire is
something of a novelty to say the least—“A City
of tents" only a few houses left standing in the
business portion of the City. Thirty of the finest 
blocks burned. It would be next to impossible to
describe the scene, and would take a genuine re-
porter to do justice to the subject. Something new
at any rate to see a burnt city. The effects of the
fire demon are upon every side, it has spread
desolation broadcast where peace and plenty
reigned.  Mr. Hussey,so well-known years ago in
Salt Lake City, has a bank here, and the writer is
at present in his house situated far enough from
the centre of town to escape the fire. He has a 
handsome residence new and modern in every
part and he entertains most hospitably. Having
had to wait over here for a train it seemed good
fortune indeed to find an old Salt Lake resident
to whom one could apply when the hotels are in
ashes. Sitting here writing, the rush of the river
(Spokane) is distinctly heard and looking out to-
wards the City one sees ruins weird enough to 
please the most fastidious lover of the strange and
fanciful. The tents scattered up and down are
more picturesque by moonlight and electric light
than in the hazy midday. The barbers, the
bakers, etc., have opened up business in tents,
temporarily, so have other tradesmen and the
saloons and gambling houses are in a place of 
canvas and coal oil. The "wheel of fortune" one
can see through the canvas screen is thickly sur-
rounded by men—and so whether, ill luck or good
luck betides, man bent upon working out his des-
tiny rushes on and on. Neither fires nor floods
seem to quench the insatiate desire of some men to
wait for luck rather than the result of honest toil;
—and so the world plods on; and men and women
rise above calamities and cast about again for new
fields of adventure, or repair the destruction and
havoc of fire and floods. Another city will doubt-
less soon arise from the dead ashes of this doomed
one, and business go on more briskly than before.
At present the streets are crowded with men, and
one wonders if there is not among them those who
are desperate and reckless. Should cold weather
set in early much suffering must necessarily be the
result, but at present the outlook is hopeful. A 
wonderful picture to gaze upon is this city in
ruins, piles of brick and stone saved from the
burnt buildings are stacked here and there ready
to be used again as soon as possible. A number
of those whose places were burned down will put
up much larger and more substantial buildings.
Three of the corners in the central part of the
town sold the next day after the fire for a thousand
dollars a foot to build banking houses upon.
This had a most excellent effect upon the state of
things, and was a good advertisement when tele-
graphed abroad as it was immediately. Mr.
[Column 2]
Hussey had most remarkable presence of mind
when he saw his place must burn, he brought
away in a trunk the books, papers and currency,
necessary to open immediately, and early on the
following morning had procured a narrow place
in one of the few houses left standing, had a tem-
porary railing put in, a sign painted and hung in
its place and at nine o'clock a. m. opened for
regular business. The fire proof safes were all
right and therefore there was not much loss with
the banks. 
	Previous to the fire this must have been a very
delightful town, and one cannot help feeling
sorrowful when viewing or contemplating such a
desolating scourge. Fires, floods, casualties and
calamities are visiting the earth in fulfillment of
prophecy, let the world decide as they may.
Many allude to Mother Shipton's prophecies, but
never to those of the Scriptures or the Latter-day
Saints. But time will tell the story and many
more hearts will ache. May those who have oil in
their lamps, keep them  trimmed and burning,
ready for the coming of the Bridegroom.


[Column 1]﻿
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The trial of Mrs. Maybrick in the English
courts has caused considerable comment and
thought among thinking women. The case is un-
parallelled. A woman accused of her husband’s
murder, tried, and sentenced to be hung. If
innocent the accusation itself would be enough to
kill most any woman, if guilty the trial and
sentence would certainly overcome her. Through-
out the case is most shocking and the sentence to
be hanged caused such a sensation that when it
was commuted to imprisonment for life, terrible
as it is, a great relief was felt. However, from
present indications this will not be long, for the
prisoner’s health is failing every day and in death
perhaps release will come.

	The Annual of the University of Deseret 1889-
1890 has been received. The pamphlet contains
84 pages, printed clearly on heavy paper and has
a frontispiece of the large and handsome new
University Building. Much valuable information
concerning this important Territorial institution is
given concisely. A complete index to subjects
first, the names of the Chancellor, Board of
Regents, Officers etc. The Faculty and Board of
instruction is very large and complete, numbering
in all 22 teachers. Instructors in French and
German from their respective countries are em-
ployed, and competent masters of all departments
including vocal and instrumental music,
drawing, painting, architecture and law. A
brief history is told of the University with date
of its establishment and incorporation by the
Legislative Assembly of the Provincial Govern-
ment in February 1850. Particulars are given in
detail in regard to Normal students. Six De-
partments are organized. First Science, Litera-
ture and the Arts. Second Normal, Third Pre-
paratory, Fourth Music, Fifth Art, Sixth Deaf
Mute. Studies for each year are classified and
arranged regularly. Programme and Text books
given, also books of Reference.  Connected with
the institution are two large libraries and a
Museum. Current literature and local papers
furnished. During the last few years special at-
tention has been given to the Deaf Mute Depart-
ment, and that has been a blessing and benefit to
many of this class of pupils. Altogether Utah
may be justly proud of her University and the
efforts made for its advancement and permanency
in the past and present. John R. Park’ M. D.
Principal.

	School Openings—After a few weeks rest and
change the teachers and pupils return from the
mountains, the sea side and the numerous camp-
ing places, refreshed and exhilerated by the sum-

[Column 2]
mers outing to resume the duties and the pleasures
of school life.
	The heat of summer is well nigh spent and
cool nights and pleasant days of early fall are
with us and the eager smiling faces of the children
as they gaily wend their way to and from the
school house show that the task of learning and
the pleasure of meeting old school mates is in-
deed delightful. There are no days so happy or
so full as these and in after years the brightest
spots in memory are the hours of school life.
The schools in Utah are now in excellent con-
dition and if not entirely free—(though in some
parts of the territory they are) have so reasonable
a tution that there should be no excuse for keep-
ing children out. Parents try to allow your
children some school privileges even though it
may be hard for you to spare them. In many
cases families are large and the mother needs her
girls to help with the house duties, while the
father can scarcely spare the boys from the farm
or out door work but the school hours are not
long and every one should have some opportuni-
ties for learning. In some countries education is
compulsory and where parents fail to send their
children during certain years to the schools they
are subject to punishment by law. In this country
the laws are not at all severe on this subject still
it is expected of parents to look to the education
of their children and every one ought at least, at
as early an age as possible to be taught to read and
write, while, of course higher education renders
one more fit for the different branches of labor.
The district schools have mostly nice buldings
splendidly equipped and competent teachers and
are in every way ready for teaching the common
branches of learning and preparing scholars for
the University and higher schools while in many
counties now, there are the Stake Academies
where not only are taught the usual studies, be-
sides literature, drawing, music etc., but Theology
as well. Throughout the territory are well kept
schools and we hope this year they also will be
well filled.

	There is a saying something about "there will
be a great going to and fro in the earth” and that
time has certainly come. With the great con-
veniences on land and water and the wonderful
speed now in which voyages are made it lies
within the power of most every people to travel
from country to country. Kings, Princes and
Potentates alike with their peoples are moving
and wandering around the earth, some for pleas-
ure some for business, some for diplomacy, some
for one thing and some for another but all are
certainly on the go, so to speak, and we wonder
and sometimes smile at the strange and peculiar
manner in which circumstances bring about ac-
quaintances. People who in their own country
might live for years and never see one another
meet abroad on the most cordial terms. While the
Emperor of Germany reviews the English
soldiers with his Royal Gandmother and inspect
the British Men of War with his uncle—The
Prince of Wales,—all with much pomp and
dignity, the Shah of Persia is hob nobbing
around Paris with President Harrison’s son, Rus-
sel, and Edison the wonderful inventor in com-
pany of some most distinguished Americans,
Whitelaw Ried and Chauncy Depew, for instance
are dining with Buffaloe Bill. In fact Buffaloe
Bill known at home, simply as a sensational actor
in his not too popular “Wild West'’ show seems to
be the hero of the day in Paris, that most beauti-
ful and delightful of cities. In all this changing
and moving around our own people are sharing,
and travel is broadening their minds and develop-
ing the character as well as educating and amus-
ing them. Of visitors too we have our share,
daily distinguished people arrive in our territory
and all find at least a few hours tor sightseeing in
this our beautiful city. The Temple, the Taber-


nacle with its wonderful organ, and Pres. Young’s
Grave are the chief points of interest but there
are others too and the stranger always dwells in
admiration on our lovely homes, our shady streets,
our lucious fruits and our delightful climate. The
gates are ever open and whether the stranger
comes to remain or only for a flying visit there
is always a welcome awaiting him.


