THE YOUNG WOMAN’S JOURNAL.

	After careful consideration it is now proposed
to establish a monthly magazine, containing the
highest thoughts, brightest fancies, and the
most elevating ideas of the Daughters of
Zion.
	The Magazine, of which Sister Susa Young
Gates (“Homespun”) will be the Editor, will
contain thirty-two pages of reading matter, and
will be divided into departments.
     First: Literary.  Second: A department for
the publication of the best essays produced in
the various Associations throughout the
country.  Third:  A department of health and
hygiene.  Fourth:  A household department.
Fifth:  A dress department.  Sixth A depart-
ment presided over by the General Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. A., through which they may
speak to the young sisters, announce appoint-
ments, and give advice and counsel.
	This in brief is the plan of the proposed pub-
lication.  It is designed to issue the first num-
ber October 1st, 1889.  The price of subscrip-
has been placed at $2.00 a year.
     The General Presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Elmina S. Taylor, Maria Young Dougall,
Mattie Horne Tingey, will have a general
supervision of the matter.


The Young Woman’s Christian Association
of Chicago propose to build an addition to their
home at a cost of $20,000.


[Column 1]﻿
WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
BY J. C. KITTREDGE.
AISLE OF MUSIC.
	Among others we took particular note of
the statues of Handel and Francis Burney,
the father of Fanny Burney, and the author
of a history of music.
THE NAVE.
	The nave of Westminster Abbey is exten-
sive and imposing. Its length is one hundred
and sixty-six feet, and its breadth seventy-
one feet and nine inches. The most promi-
nent monument in this section is that to Sir
Isaac Newton. It is located at the extreme
eastern end of the nave. The philosopher is
represented in a sitting position, leaning upon
a pile of books. A large globe is above, and
near by are two cupids, or angels, represent-
ing inspiration, or something of the kind.
Ben Jonson was buried in the nave, in an up-
right position, it is said.
“O, rare Ben Jonson!
	In the northwest corner is a monument to
Charles James Fox. In the baptistry Words-
worth is remembered. On the opposite side
lies Livingstone, the African explorer. Ameri-
 can revolutionary affairs were brought to
mind as we looked at the statue of Major
Andre. In the south aisle of the choir is a
statue to Isaac Watts, dated 1794, and one to
John and Charles Wesley.
	Imagination paints the time, in the future,
when this great church will be a ruin, as the
Perthenon and the Coliseum are to day;
when pilgrims will go thither from all parts
of the world, and will gaze, in many cases
vaguely, on those crumbling monuments of
the past. Long after that time will be seen
what is the permanence and efficacy of good
literature, for when the great abbey and its
contents shall have disappeared the words and
thoughts of Shakspeare, Milton, Byron, and
Carlyle will still exist.
THE CHARTER HOUSE.
	The chapter house at Westminster Abbey
is a place of exceptional note, as the house of
lords once sat there during a period of more
than three hundred years. A rather strange
place, one would say, for a political body to
hold its sittings! The chapter house (or house
of the chapter, or body) of a cathedral is the
place where all the business of the church is
conducted. Great laws treating of civil and
religious liberty were made there. On the
table of this chapter house was placed the
“Black Book,” the decree of Henry VII
against monasteries. There was an advance
toward clearer light—the pulling away of
weeds which were growing about the altar;
work which was so bravely began by Luther.
CHAPEL OF PYX.
	This chapel comes next in order. There
the ancient jewels were kept. The iron-bound
chests which contained them can still be found.
The only object of importance at present is
the standard of gold and silver.
THE LIBRARY.
	This apartment is a creation of compara-
tively modern days, as it was founded in 1620.
As readers recollect, Washington Irving has
facetiously described it in the “Sketch Book,”
in the article entitled “The Mutability of
Literature.”	
THE INFIRMARY.
	There the sick monks were nursed, and
the bad ones whipped.
MUNIMENT ROOM AND TRIFORIUM.
	In this room are kept the archives of the

[Column 2]
abbey, in curious old chests. A fine view of
the church can be had from the triforium.
JERUSALEM CHAMBER.
	Perhaps the most noteworthy circumstance
connected with this place is that Henry VII
died here. Shakspeare thus describes the
circumstance:

King Henry—Laud be to God! even there my life must
	end.
It hath been prophesied to me many years,
I should not die but in Jerusalem;
Which vainly I supposed the Holy Land.
But bear me, to that chamber, there I’ll lie,
In that Jesusalem shall Harry die.

But we must not leave the place without
refering to the Westminster assembly and the
making of the famous catechism.
		WESTMINSTER SCHOOL.
	This institution of learning, which is an
annex of the abbey, was founded by Henry
III and was endowed by Elizabeth in 1560.
It is one of the prominent educational houses
of the country, and is on a line with Eaton
and Harrow. Many quaint old customs are
retained at this place, as at the others. Among
them is a curious old game played by
the students. It consists of tossing a cake
over a bar, and the student who catches it
intact and takes it to the head-master
gets a guinea. Many reminiscences and as-
sociations are connected with this establish-
ment.
THE MONASTERY. 
	In former times the monastery extended
far beyond the present limits. Sir Walter
Raleigh was imprisoned in the monastery on
the night previous to his execution. Prisoners
were kept in the gate house. Hampden was
placed there, and Jeffry Hudson, the dwarf,
died there, accused of having participated in
the popish plot.  The brave little fellow was
he who is so felicitously described in Scott’s
“Peveril of the Peak.”	
THE SANCTUARY,
	It was in the sanctuary of Westminster that
the family of Edward IV were confined by
the order of Richard III. There the widow
Elizabeth bade adieu to her son Richard,
whence he departed to the tower, never to
return. There also she received news of the
murder of the princes.
THE ALMONRY.
	There stands Caxton’s printing press. As
the reader remembers, it was during the
reign of Edward IV that the art of printing
was introduced into England. From the seed
then sown what a vast forest has spung up!
There is an interesting picture somewhere,
representing the king and family visiting
Caxton. The latter is showing them the won-
ders of the invention. At that time it was
doubtless one of the marvels of the earth.
THE KING'S JEWEL HOUSE.
	There are the old standards of weights and
measures and the Elizabethan ell and yard.
To-day in the United States, as is well known,
there is an officer elected annually who is
called “sealer of weights and measures,” whose
function is to adjust the same. Correct scales
and measures are kept in the town hall, and
defective ones are corrected by them. Probably
those at Westminister were the original ones.
Thus, upon examination, we see that almost
every law and regulation under which we live
had its original sway in the remote past of
England. Every true American should recog-
nize this fact.
	Acts of parliament nor declarations of inde-


pendence cannot entirely dismember England
from the United States.  In language, morals,
sentiment and race they are identical.  At this
place there was a custom in the olden time for
the sheriff to count sixty-one nails in a horse-
shoe, as a proof of education, as only well in-
structed men could count sixty-one.  This in-
cident is instructive, too, showing as it does
what advances have been made in learning.
		   [To be continued.]


