THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN.

	The chief difficulty with those who have the
management of children lies in the fact that
they have not yet learned to manage them-
selves.  The training of a child has to do with
its well-being physically, intellectually, and
religiously, and only one who is himself
properly trained in these matters is capable of
directing another.
	 It is a lamentable fact that two-thirds of the
people we meet are chronic invalids; seldom
down sick perhaps, but never well; never in a
condition to enjoy without painful reaction
what should be the natural activity of mind
and muscle.  They undertake but little, ac-
complish less; are never equal to an emer-
gency, and, in fact, get from their lives a small
amount of the enjoyment which is their due.
How much of this is owing to mismanagement
in childhood, it becomes each parent's duty to
inquire.
	All parents should understand enough about
physiology to be able to deal wisely with their
children's bodies from the beginning, and to
teach this important study to them as soon as
they are old enough to comprehend.  Many
important branches are taught in the schools,
but physiology, if taught at all, is not done in
that whole-souled manner it is the parents'
duty and privilege to do at home.  If this mat
ter was properly attended to, there would be
fewer nervous, dyspeptic men and women


dragging wearily through life, a burden to
themselves and those around them.  "A sound
mind in a sound body" is a thing of wonderful
capabilities.  A child thus endowed is con-
stantly upon the lookout for information.  It
finds it in the conversation of its parents.  The
companionship of a cultivated person is a
powerful educator.  If, unfortunately, the
parent, owing to circumstances which sur-
rounded his youth, is not, in this respect, what
he wishes his child to be, he must put forth
every energy of mind and body to overcome
these defects.  He will find it hard work; in-
deed he can never be "as one to the manner
born."  But he can do a great deal toward
fitting himself to be such a companion for his
child as he could wish him to have.
	More important than all else is the religious
training of children. Few people, of whatever
profession, would purposely, or even willingly,
keep their sons and daughters in ignorance of
Him through whom "we live, move and have
our being;" but how may one teach another
who has not himself been taught?  "Be what
you would have your child to be," touches a
parent's experience at every point, and only
when we have learned and appropriated this
important maxim, shall we know how to train
our children.
				The Phrenological Journal.


The leading spirit of Santa Ynez, Cal., is
said to be Miss A. J. Hails, a Massachusetts
school-teacher.  She went there several years
ago, nearly dead with consumption.  She now
teaches the village school, superintends the
Sunday school and the W. C. T. U., and is the
force behind every good word and work.


