BEAVER STAKE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
     The stake conference of the R. S. convened
August 12th, in the L. D. S. Meeting house,
Beaver City.  President Lucinda Howd pre-
siding.
     After the opening exercises the presidents of
the various branches gave their reports,showing
that a portion of the sisters are alive to their
duties and helping to care for the poor and
sick.
     Sisters Zina Young and Minerva Snow being
present addressed the conference both forenoon
and afternoon.
     Sister Zina Young was happy to meet with
the sisters. “It is a duty to meet together and
if we wish to live happy we must make our
duties our pleasures.  We are the daughters
of God and we must acknowledge His good-
ness and mercy.  We must be filled with in-
tegrity toward Him for it is worth more than
the riches of this world as it will lead us back
into the presence of God.  We must be united
and make our homes happy and pleasant.  We
are weaving the web of life and we must try
to make it smooth and beautiful without slip-
knots or ragged edges.  Be pure and chaste in
our thoughts and actions.  Never indulge in
envy, hate, or any ugly feeling, as such things
are opposed to the spirit of God.
     Our children must be tested as we are being
tested and we must fortify them with good
principle.  Fill up their minds with good so
there will not  be room for the bad.” Speaker
read the 13th Chap. of 1st Corrinthians on
charity, and commented at some length show-
ing the beauty of that principle.  The revela-
tion given to Emma Smith through Joseph the
Seer, in Harmony, Susquehanna Co., Penn.,
July, 1830, was also read. “These things
teach us to beware of vanity and pride and
cleave unto the covenants we have made.  I
would rather suffer death than to miss the asso-
ciation of my husband in the eternal world.”
Speaker referred to many grand principles and
keys and showed how it is only by being
humble, wise, pure, and faithful in the things
of God that we can receive an exaltation.
     Sister Minerva Snow felt rather weak in con-
sequence of the accident she had received but
was thankful she was able to be present.  Ac-
knowledged the hand of God and said Sister
Zina had been called by the priesthood to
preside over the Relief Societies throughout
the world and her counsel was dictated by the
spirit of God. “We have been sent here to fill
a mission and if we desire to fill it to the honor
and glory of our Heavenly Father we must
not spend our time in idleness.  Remember
God in the days of prosperity and He will not 
forget us in the hours of darkness.”
     Spoke of outside influences and the attempts
of our enemies to lead our children astray
through their love of pleasure.  We must
teach our children to pray, to resist tempta-
tion and to keep their spirits and bodies pure.
Throw around them the arms of love and
kindness and teach them to lean upon God.
     We are blessed above all women upon the
face of the earth.  We have been organized


into these associations and have covenanted
with God to discharge certain obligations
therein.  Hence what manner of women ought
we to be?  We ought to be clothed with purity,
charity and humility; being diligent in keep-
ing every commandment of God that we may
be a pattern to those around us.
     Be united for it is union that will bind the
power of the adversary.  We are called to a
high and holy calling and we must be humble
in the hands of God that we may work for the
salvation of mankind.  Sister Snow bore her
testimony to the truth, and rejoiced even in
persecution as it proved that the day of re-
demption is near.
     Stake counsellor E. H. Bennett desired to be
an instrument in the hands of God for doing
good.  Spoke of the responsibilities of mothers.
Bore her testimony and thought if we would
put into practice the teachings of Sisters
Young and Snow and live up to our privileges
we would be saved and exalted.
     Stake counsellor Bro. M. L. Shepherd spoke
a short time with regard to the training of our
children.  Thought we ought not to neglect
their minds in order to adorn their bodies.
Keep them from the street, instil correct prin-
ciples into them and also a love for knowledge
and they will fill their high destiny to become
noble and great in the kingdom of God.
     President Howd rejoiced in the teachings
we have received and  bore testimony to the
divinity and greatness of the work in which
we are engaged.
	The conference was adjourned for three
months.
     The sisters of Beaver have enjoyed a rich
treat in the visit of Sisters Young and Snow,
and feel thankful they have health and
strength to travel and labor among the sisters
and impart such wise, judicious, and timely
counsel.
     The accident to Sister Snow resulted from
her being thrown from the carriage by the
horses running away just as they were enter-
ing Minersville.  She was picked up insensi-
ble but, by the blessing of the Lord, recovered
so far in a day or two as to continue her
journey.
			LOUISA JONES, Stake Sec.


