OBITUARIES.

	Died at Alpine, Arizona, on the 28th of June 1889, after
a painful illness of six weeks duration, Lois Emily, only
daughter of Lois Hamblin and Hubert Burk.
	Deceased was born Jan 1. 1876.  She was a regular at-
tendant of the Sabbath School, Y. L. and Primary
Associations, and held the office of Treasurer in the
Sabbath School and Primary.
	Her parents have the sympathy of their many friends in
this sad bereavement, this being the fifth time they have
been called to mourn the loss of a dear one taken from
their little flock
	The remains of her grandfather Jacob Hamblin, were
removed from Pleasanton, during her illness, to be in-
terred in this place.  She often expressed a desire to be
well enough to attend his funeral, but was called home
before the arrival of the remains.
	Just previous to her death a holy peace seemed to per-
vade her tired being, and she spoke in endearing terms to
her departed Grandfather as if he were present, and closed
her weary eyes in sweet slumber to awake no more till the
great last day, when we all hope to meet the dear
ones gone before
								E. B C.

	Died in Teasdale Ward August the 4th, 1889.  Lovina
C. Pritchett, beloved wife of Thomas M. Pritchett and
daughter of Thomas and Ann Heninger, born at Burks
Garden, Farzwell Co., Virginnia.  Was Baptized a mem-
ber of the Church of Latter-day Saints Sept. 1862, gathered
with the Saints, Sept. 1866.  Received her blessings in the
House of God in 1868.  Sister Lovina has had delicate
health for years; was the mother of four living children, was
in every way worthy of the name of a Latter-day Saint.  A
true, faithful, loving wife, an affectionate mother, a kind
friend.
	On the first of this month she was present at Relief
Society, the meeting having been held at the house of a
friend, where she was visiting, for her convenience.  She
was full of faith in the principles of the Gospel and lived
consistent with the same; died as she had lived in hope of
a glorious Ressurrection with the just, leaving a daughter,
and loving husband who cherish her memory and mourn
their loss.
									J. S. C.


