			LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Kindred Friends and Fellow Citizens.
	On this centennial occasion, we assemble
with hearts throbbing with sympathy, to honor
the memory of our ancestors, the pioneers of
Phelps, and the defenders of our national flag.
	As I tread this, to me, sacred soil, I gaze in
retrospect on scenes of childhood.  I see my
great-grandfather, Elisha Granger, he leans
upon his staff, bowed with the weight of many
years of earthly pilgrimage.  He died in the
home of my grandfather, Pierce Granger.
	I remember the home with its large kitchen
fire-place, with back-log and fore-stick, and be-
fore the fire suspended a revolving sparerib of
savory smell.  I remember the crane with its
S shaped hooks, on which were hung the tea
kettle and iron pot, and on the coals in the
spacious chimney corner bake-kettle and skillet
were preparing their contributions for table
supplies.  Of the persons present, I only re-
member the face of my grandfather. My last
remembrance of him is, in a log school house,
in Sodus,  worshiping at the cross of Christ,
and trying to lead sinners to repentance.
	Earlier than my day, an event transpired of
which I am requested to speak. "Nature's forces,
God's voice is ever prompting progressive souls
to march forward and occupy new fields which
lead on to physical, moral, intellectual and
spiritual achievement.  One progressive step
ever paves the way for another."
	Adam, after the garden was prepared and
beautified, sent a dispatch for Eve, she came,
and amid sorrow and gladness they planted
their posterity on earth's virgin soil.
	"The branches ran over the wall."  Our
forefathers in frail barks traversed the mighty
deep, and if our foremothers did not accom-
pany them, they followed, to this, to them
[column 2]
new world, they planted colonies amid great
difficulties on New England's shore.
	Some of New Englands sons, among them
my grandfather, Pierce Granger, impelled by
the same progressive spirit, pressed their way
onward through what was then the western
wilds, to what is now proudly termed the Em-
pire State.
	As the pioneer fathers made their uncertain
and many times perilous way, they thought-
fully and carefully marked the trees that their
track might be followed.  I am told that after
the rough log cabin had been constructed,  my
grandfather, after the fashion of mother Eve,
left the home of rest and plenty, to follow her
earthly lord through the dark shadowed wood-
land.  Hills, rocks and rivers obstructed the
unbroken pathway.  Poisonous serpents and
ferocious beasts added terror to the journey, as
the slow ox-team made its laborious way by
the sunlight.  But the darker picture is the
night scene. The weary oxen must be unyoked
from the wood-shod sledge, and as the
darkness gathers around and the gloom
deepens, the pilgrim woman tries to regulate
the beatings of her agitated heart. The wolves
begin to howl, the woman in the anguish of her
loneliness, and with a sense of the perilous con-
dition, prays that the God of love and power,
will protect her and hers. The howling wolves
seem to be continually increasing in numbers
and to come nearer and more near, none but
the pioneers realize the tedious lingering hours
of such experiences, nor yet the heartfelt in-
sense of praise that ascends as the daylight ap-
pears.
	The pioneer women of Phelps, trusting in
God, and such skill as the untutored Aborig-
inies could afford, met the responsibilities of
motherhood and made it possible that you and
I might have existence in these earthly taber-
nacles.  The record of such heroism is preserved
in the archives of heaven.  The true pioneer
woman has an intuitive sense of the future, and
she uncomplainingly endures such hardships,
privations and self-denials, as her pathway may
bring to her.  She says, "Let the result of my
pilgrimage redown to the good of posterity,
and to thee, father and mother, God, be  the
glory given."

		"In the heavens are parents single,
			No, the thought makes reason stare,
		Truth is reason, truth eternal,
			Tells me I've a mother there."

	Of the memorial monument, precious,  be-
cause of the affection which prompted its erec-
tion.  The pioneers take special note, and the
account will be found on the credit side of the
great ledger.
	The picture presented by the grand proces-
sion is sublime and awe inspiring
	As the hearts of the children are this day 
turned lovingly to the parents, so the hearts of
the parents are lovingly turned to the children,
in their spirit bodies they are present with  us,
and the smile of their approbation gladens our
hearts.
	The remembrance of this centennial celebra-
tion, its greetings and reminiscences will be re-
called by us, and the report will be remem-
bered by our children for ages to come.
	We can best honor the memory of our
pioneer progenitors, by exploring and opening
further fields of usefulness, and being diligent
in the cultivation thereof.
	Let us ever remember that our eternal in-
terests are identified with those that have gone
before, and that they cannot be made perfect
without us, neither can we be made perfect
without them. In closing, we bless the memory
of our pioneer fathers and mothers, and ask the
citizens of beloved Phelps to accept grateful
thanks.
	June 17, 1889.


