[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | May | Issue: 22 | Title: READ BEFORE THE REAPER’S CLUB BY | Author: Unknown]

READ BEFORE THE REAPER’S CLUB BY 
		MISS JULIA A DRUCE.
	SOME years after the reign of Misraim in
Egypt a ruler called Busiris built the fam-
ous city of Thebes and made it the seat of
his empire. This prince must not be con-
founded with the Busiris who was so in-
famous for his cruelties. Thebes was a
great city of Egypt but is now in ruins;
and its remains extend for many miles
along both banks of the Nile. Tradition 
says that it was first built by Misraim. It
is the oldest city in the world, and is situ-
ated in Upper Egypt, about 335 miles
southeast from Cairo. Thebes was also called
the great city of Jupiter. In it was found-
ed the first college, and the first palace for a
king. Its circumference was twenty-three
miles. It had one hundred gates, and was,
according to history, sufficiently populous
to send forth from each of these gates in
time of war, two hundred armed chariots
and ten thousand men. Thebes was laid
in ruins by the Persians under Cambyses,
in 525 B. C., and many of its noblest edi-

[Column 2]
fices and monuments were destroyed. For
nearly three thousand years the sand has
accumulated within it, burying some of the
largest monuments, and in some instances
hiding almost entire temples. ‘‘The ob-
server who first approaches Thebes sees
only a confused mass of vast obelisks,
portals and columns, towering above palm
trees; but a closer and longer inspection
awakens sensations of awe and astonish-
ment.” Among its temples the most re-
markable are those of the Palace—Temple
of Karnak; the Temple of Luxor; the
Memnonium; the tomb of Osymandias; and
the mountain, tombs or Catacombs of
Thebes—these latter are sometimes called
the Necropolis.—Karnak surpasses in its
grandeur all the others. It stands at the
southeastern extremity of the city, and its
name is derived from the village which has
sprung up on a portion of its site. The
French engineers—when Napoleon invaded
Egypt—were one hour and a half in riding
around it. "The temple itself is 1,200
feet in length, and its breadth is 420 feet.
It is approached by a long avenue of
enormous Sphynx—the largest in exist-
ence—and by a succession of gates and
colossal statues, constructed of different
stones and marbles. Two of the sculptured
obelisks are sixty-nine feet, and another is
ninety-one feet high. The portion that
was the chief hall, 159 feet in breadth and
318 feet long, has for the support of its
roof 134 grand columns, each seventy feet
high and eleven in diameter. All the
sculptured work has been colored and still
retains its brightness. The avenue of
Sphynx has now but fifty of its six hun-
dred still standing.’’
 	''The Temple of Luxor, especially when
viewed from the river which flowed through
the city, is a lovely sight. It stands in a
plain covered with palm trees and with
mountains stretching behind it. Beside
its portico stood two obelisks, each nearly
80 feet high and 32 feet in circumference,
composed of a single block  of beautiful
rose-colored, polished granite from the
quarries of Syene.” One of these obelisks
is now in Paris, France. It was taken
there in 1833 A. D., and erected in the
Place de la Concorde. ‘‘There were two
colossal seated statues, partially concealed
by the rising sand, each carved from a
single block of black granite. The propy-
lon, which is 200 feet high, contains stone
enough to build a cathedral. Inside it has
200 columns, varying in dimensions, most
of which are entire. All its apartments
are covered with sculptured work, executed
with extreme care and delicacy, this being
done as minute in parts as if it was the
work of a seal engraver. Here it is sup-
posed that Homer studied the sculptured
battle and triumphs to gain inspiration for
his most heroic strains.’’ The tomb of
Osymandias was, as the historian Diodor-
us informs us, at once a palace, a library
and a tomb. It was a mile and a quarter in
circumference and was adorned with sculp-
ture of the greatest excellence and splendor.
This tomb was partially destroyed by the
Persians when they invaded Egypt. Only

[Column 3]
the remains of two colossal figures indicate
now the spot on which it stood.
	Of the Catacombs in Egypt, those at
Thebes are considered the most remarka-
ble. They are the oldest that are known
and can be traced back for 4000 years.
These Catacombs are now nearly all of
them dismantled of their contents. “An
artist who visited them before they had
been completely dispoiled says, he discovered
some little chambers, and on the walls of
one were represented all kinds of arms,
such as coats of mail, bows, arrows, jave-
lins, sabres, helmets, etc. In another room
there was found a collection of household
utensils, such as chairs, chests of draw-
ers, beds, etc., all of exquisite form and
suitable to have graced the apartments of
luxury and wealth. Besides these there
were vases and other small articles. In
still another room was represented agricul-
ture, showing a man sowing grain by the
side of a canal; a field of corn reaped with
a sickle; and fields of rice with men watch-
ing them. In a fourth room was a figure
clothed in white, represented as playing on
a richly ornamented harp with eleven
strings."
	The city of Thebes lost its previous im-
portance soon after its revolt against
Ptolemy Lathyrus, and its subsequent cap-
ture by the Greeks B. C. 82, after a siege
of three years.
	Diodorus gives a very particular discrip-
tion of many magnificent edifices raised by
King Osymandyas, one of which was
adorned with sculptures and paintings of
exquisite beauty; representing his expedi-
tion against the Bactrians—a people of Asia—
whom he had invaded with four hundred
thousand foot soldiers, and twenty thou-
sand cavalry. “In another part of this
edifice was exhibited an assembly of the
judges, whose president wore on his breast
a picture of truth with her eyes shut, and
himself was surrounded with books. Not far
from hence was seen a magnificent library, 
the oldest mentioned in history.”
	The Mausoleum of this king displayed
uncommon splendor. It was encompassed
with a circle of gold, a cubit in breadth and
365 cubits in circumference, each cubit of
which showed the rising and setting of the
sun, moon and the other planets; for so
early as this king’s reign the Egyptians di-
vided the year into twelve months, each
consisting of thirty days, to which they
added every year five days and six hours.” 
	Menes, or Misraim built the city of
Memphis; and Uchoreus, one of the suc-
cessors of Osymandyas, is also said to have
built this city, which was situated at the
point of the Delta, in Lower Egypt. It
was the ancient capital of that country, and
was one hundred and fifty furlongs, or
more than seven leagues in circumference.
Southward from Memphis this latter king
raised a lofty mole or hill; and on the right 
and left he dug very deep moats to receive
the river. These were faced with stone,
and raised near the city by strong cause-
ways; the whole designed to secure the
place from inundations of the Nile, and in-
cursions of the enemy. A city so well


[Column 1]
situated and so strongly fortified—that it
was almost the Key of the Nile, and by this
means commanded the whole country—
soon became a usual residence of the Egyp-
tian kings; and remained so until Alexan-
dria was built, by Alexander the Great.
This city is situated 112 miles northwest
from Cairo; under the dynasty of the Ptolem-
ies the city made great progress. Alexan-
dria was the chief emporium for the com-
merce of India; and it also became at this
time the center of the sciences, such as
mathematics, astronomy etc. It contained
an immense library, the largest of antiquity,
chiefly collected by Ptolemy Soter and
Ptolemy Philadelphus, which consisted
of 700,000 volumes, about 400,000 of which
were destroyed by fire when Julius Caesar
was blockaded in the Greek part of the
city, during his war with the Alexandrians,
and the remaining volumes were destroyed
by Amron—the general of Caliph Omar, the
Saracen—A D. 640.
	After falling before the Roman arms
Alexandria scarcely lost any of its splendor;
but when conquered by the Caliphs, and
subjected to the Saracen yoke, it then be-
gan and continued to decline, until the dis-
covery of a passage to India by the Cape of
Good Hope in 1497, gave the final blow to
its importance and trade. Its chief ecclesi-
astical building is the Mosque of the Thou-
sand and One Pillars. This city was
founded 332 B. C., and Dinocrates, a cele-
brated architect, who rebuilt the temple of
Diana at Ephesus, was engaged to lay out
its plan. There are now very few remains
by which its ancient magnificence can be
recognized.
	One of the two obelisks known as Cleo-
patra’s Needles, was first acquired for Eng-
land by Sir Ralph Abercrombie in 1801, at
which time it had long been embedded in
the sand and mud of the shore. It was not
removed at that time, but was presented to
the British government by Mehemet Ali,
the first Khedive of Egypt, and again offer-
ed to them by the next Khedive in 1877.
It now stands on the Thames embankment
—England—between the Charing Cross
and Waterloo bridges, and was erected at
this place on the 12th of September, 1878.
Mr. John Dixon was entrusted with the
work of removing and seeing to the safe
transportation of this obelisk. The Eng-
lish Monolith, as well as the other one
which is in New York City, is of hard,
compact red granite, known as Theban
stone, which was obtained from the quar-
ries of Syene on the Nile.
	It is supposed that these Egyptian relics
were brought to Alexandria from some
ancient Egyptian temple, during Greek or
Roman rule, and are stated to have been
originally erected at Heliopolis about 1600
B. C., by the King Thothmes III., and as
amongst the hieroglyphics with which they
are covered, the names of Thothmes III., of
Rameses II., and of a still later king have
been deciphered upon one of them, it seems
probable that their true history and origin
has yet to be discovered; but we can be
sure that they date back to an early period 
of Egyptian history. The obelisk that
was standing at Alexandria when the Eng-
lish were removing theirs, was examined by
Mr. Dixon. This engineer thought he
could perhaps obtain information respecting
the time of its removal to Alexandria.
“After obtaining permission from the Khe-
dive, he took away considerable soil, sand
and debris, when he found that its buried
base was resting upon a construction of 

[Column 2]
rough masonry. At one corner was
seen a bronze crab with an inscription in
Greek and also in Latin on one of its claws.
The translation of these inscriptions—which
were both the same—was to the effect that
this obelisk had been erected or re-erected at
Alexandria in the reign of Augustus Cæsar,
21 B. C., by the engineer Pontius, and
placed before the Cæsareum, or, as it was
sometimes called, the Temple of Augustus
Caesar.” The obelisk—one of Cleopatra’s
Needles—that was presented by the Khe-
dive of Egypt to the United States, was
set up in Central Park, New York City, in
1881, A. D. 
	On what was formerly the Island of
Pharos in the Bay of Alexandria, but which
is now a peninsula, Ptolemy Soter and his 
successor, Ptolemy Philadelphus, built a
Pharos or lighthouse, which was considered
one of the seven wonders of the world. It
was constructed of white marble, and fires
were lighted on the top to warn travelers of
the difficult access to the bay. It could be
seen at a distance of one hundred miles.
The Pillar of Diocletian—better known
as “Pompey’s Pillar,’’—stands between
the city and Lake Mareotis; while the
Catacombs of Alexandria are at a distance
of about two miles from it, cut in the face
of a calcareous rock which fronts the Sea.
	When Amron, the Saracen general, took
possession of this city, he stated in a letter
to the Caliph, that he found in Alexandria
4000 palaces, 4000 baths, 40,000 Jews who
paid tribute, 400 royal circuses, and 12,000
gardeners who supplied the city with all
kinds of herbs, or vegetables in great plenty.
	On the 14th of June 1798, this city was
stormed by Napoleon Bonaparte and taken.
On the 21st of March 1801, at the battle
of Alexandria when the French under
Menou were defeated, Sir Ralph Aber-
crombie was mortally wounded; and on
the 28th of August following, the French
garrison yielded to the British, under the
command of General Hutchinson. 
