Of Interest to Women By Lalene H. Hart
Will you give some suggestions for the emergency meal?
An emergency shelf is the most practical situation-saver a housekeeper can have. Place several good menus that are easily and quickly prepared, and are good food combinations. Write out recipes and with small clips fasten to menus. Then put on the shelf all the canned foods and package goods needed in preparing the meal. Regular supplies, of course, can be used for the ordinary staples; such items as a can of milk, a bottle of olives, capers, canned fruits or cherries, a jar of choice jelly or marmalade will suggest many others that you know how to use best. Many delicious combinations have been evolved through the preparation of the emergency meal.
To prevent pricked fingers when sewing, especially when quilting, protect the tips of the fingers most used with strips of adhesive tape. This allows as much freedom as if the fingers were bare and one cannot prick through the plaster.
For rolling crackers or bread crumbs, small salt and sugar sacks are very handy. They keep the crumbs from scattering and less time is required for making them fine.
A small piece of absorbent cotton placed in the palm of the hand when wearing kid gloves will absorb moisture of the hands and prevent stained gloves.
An inexpensive towel rack nailed two feet from the floor on the wall of the back porch is handy for children to slip their umbrellas into when coming in from school.
If you use stoves or grates do not buy celluloid toys for the children. A creeping baby who struck the stove with a rattle was badly burned. The celluloid bursts into flames and burns so quickly; it is that which causes the danger. Then, too, they are easily broken.
If candies, such as fudge or panoche, are made for packing, try cooking them in tiny muffin pans. The pieces will be uniform and will not break as readily as when they are cut.
When emptying the dish or kettle which is likely to be hard to wash, pour a little boiling water into it, cover tightly with a


lid and place on the back of the stove. The steam will soften the dried on foods. The enamel is not chipped by scraping.
When making pudding or dessert sauces, where thickening is required, mix thoroughly the dry cornstarch or flour with the sugar. Pour hot liquid slowly over this mixture and stir constantly no lumps will form and results will be just as good as when it is stirred with milk or water. Less time is required.
The unpleasant task of taking castor oil may be partly overcome by putting the dose in orange or lemon juice with the tiniest bit of soda added to make it foam. Some children consider it a treat instead of medicine.
I have saved time and money by using the following for washday. Prepare a tub of warm suds and add three or four tablespoons of ammonia, put clothes in this, rub soiled spots with soap, and soak for twenty minutes or until ready to wash. Wring out and put into washing machines, run twenty minutes. Wring out, rinse in two waters, then in the bluing water. The ammonia releases the grease and dirt and is much cheaper than soap used for boiling. The clothes will be just as white and fresh.?Mrs. S. P., Brigham City, Utah.
It is such an easy way to open the backdoor and give the bottle or empty can a throw which gives the yard an untidy appearance and adds danger to some one who might step on them. It is just as easy to keep a sack in a convenient place and place all such articles in it. Then they can be easily and quickly removed without waste of time and energy in picking them up.?Mrs. T. T., Victor, Idaho.
If in an emergency you want to boil an egg that is cracked, wrap it in a piece of waxed paper, screw the ends of the paper tight and put into hot water. The white of the egg will set before the paper untwists.?L. W. N., Clifton, Idaho.
Another little suggestion for boiling eggs, when a large number is to be cooked, is to place them in a thin muslin sack, such as the cereal bags, or a wire basket and put into a kettle of boiling water. When the eggs are done lift out the bag and dip quickly in cold water. The eggs will be uniform in texture?Louise, Canada.
Sometimes matches are lighted by scratching the painted wood work. These marks may be removed by rubbing with a piece of lemon or a cloth dipped in vinegar diluted with water. Wash
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 33
surface with clear water and polish?Mrs. R. G., Pine Valley, Utah.
Save all your empty spools until you have several dozen. Sometime when you are dyeing, color the spools and put them into a box. They will serve the children for building blocks. With several slender sticks, such as are used in making penny suckers, all kinds of wagons, houses, etc., can be made with them and the children enjoy them as well as the more expensive blocks.?Mrs. G. R., Duncan, Arizona.
Small pieces of cloth and scraps that can not be used for anything else may be found useful in wiping out dishes of all kind, such as greasy pans before they are washed. This saves time and a greasy unsanitary dish cloth?Mrs. B. K., Logan, Utah.
When mending the feet of silk stockings, use woolen dress goods or pieces of old silk stockings as near the same shade of the stocking as possible. Place a small patch underneath the hole, or better still just before the hole appears, then darn with cotton which is not too heavy. The patch will reinforce the thin place and will prolong the life of the stocking?Mrs. M. L. A., Dayton Idaho.
There are no idle words where children are. Things spoken in their hearing carry far, Producing fruit of evil or of good To our great future human brotherhood.
The word dropped lightly from our careless lips Into the fertile child mind seeps and drips. And intertwines with thought and impulse so It may decide the path some soul shall go!
The eager child mind may not know it hears? The words may fall upon unwitting ears. But natheless the record's graven deep: Subconsciousness a copy clear will keep.
So speak not thoughtlessly when They are by; Your words fall not on sterile soil or dry. Thoughts sown in plastic minds are carried far; There are no idle words where children are. ?Strickland Gillilan.