[Vol40 | May 1953 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Karren]

Page 319
Karren Blanche M. Hollingsworth HE rain still beat against the windowpane.
Only this morning she had said in her cute two-year-old way, ""What's 'at?" and I had answered, "It's the rain on the window. It looks like tears. I guess the sky is crying."
Very seriously she had watched the drops of rain hit the top of the window and slowly trickle down the pane. Now, as I wandered alone through the house, I felt almost lost in my own home. Everything I looked at reminded me of her. In the living room four little finger marks were visible on the door just under the knob where plump fingers had held on, waiting to wave goodbye to Earl as he drove away to work this very morning. In the dining room, a few cookie crumbs were scattered on the rug in front of the fireplace. She had been © sitting there eating as she played with her doll house and its miniature furniture. One little chair she thought pretty she had placed on the rug and then sat on it. We couldn't help laughing at her expression when she looked at it and found it all flattened out. When I walked into the kitchen, the first thing I saw was the plastic bib she wore when she ate. It was hanging on the rack where I kept fancy kitchen towels. She would come running for me to tie the bib on and climb into her high chair. We had to move fast if we got seated before she folded her arms, closed her eyes tightly, and asked the blessPage 320 ing on the food. I took the bib, folded it carefully, and put it in the cupboard on the top shelf. She wouldn't eat one meal without the little spoon, and there it was, right where she had left it. It had been part of a set, but the fork had been lost. I put the spoon high in the cabinet, too. On the floor in the hall I found a shoe for her dolly. It had been put on and off the doll's foot so many times it wasn't even shaped like a shoe. I carried it with me as I went into the bathroom, where a tiny tooth brush hung low enough for her to reach. We had to keep the tooth paste so she couldn't reach it. At first she'd say, "'Et me, 'et me." 'Then she would squeeze a lot of paste on the brush and eat it just like candy. A dozen times a day she would want to brush her tiny teeth. Finally, we suspected it was for the paste alone, so we had to hide it on the top shelf.