[Vol40 | May 1953 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Stranger in Garden]

The Stranger in My Garden Alice Whitson Norton IX asters for blue, six mariS golds for yellow, six assorted zinnias, for combination colors.
With utmost care, I had spaded, raked to velvety smoothness, and tamped the soft fresh earth for this particular bed, fronting as it did the gate through which I always ushered any late afternoon guest in- _ to my garden. | With a critical eye I had selected the plants to go into the bed from a nearby greenhouse and made sure each specimen had good, strong roots.
This was to be my show bed, something my friends would enjoy when they rested with me in my garden during the hot summer days. Carefully I spaced the plot, digging holes twelve inches apart, then began transplanting my newly acquired specimens into the fresh earth. Six—twelve—eighteen—I counted in the newly made plot.
Each space was filled with a fresh green plant. In the bottom of the box lay a tragically withered plant—not an aster, not a marigold, not a zinnia— just a worthless discard. I lifted it to throw it away, and, suddenly, the well-remembered words of my father came to me, "As long as there is one green leaf, a plant has a chance to live." But where can I place it? I wondered halfheartedly, looking over the garden. I saw morning glories blanketing the east fence; honeysuckle ran riot over the north side, climbing roses claimed the west side, and privets hedged in the Page
310 INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD T LAKE CITY, UTAH 8430 south side; the border beds were filled. But my courage failed when it came to tossing it aside. Again I searched the garden, and, suddenly, my vision rested on a spot in the southwest corner, incidentally the most unattractive corner in the garden, except for a huge tree. For here, year after year, I had dumped the refuse from the garden, left it for a space of time, and returned the enriched earth to my beds. At the present moment, however, the corner was bare. For a moment I stood with the withered plant in my hand, undecided whether to toss it in the shady corner or give it a place in the sun. A puff of wind shook the withered plant, rattled its leaves and moved on, and my hesitancy ended. I reached for my spade, and didn't leave until the scraggly, withered roots were spread in a soft bed and the soil made firm above them. Then I pinched the withered top back to the sight of green in the stem. In pinching the top off, I discovered the plant was a stranger to me. It was not a Japanese sunflower, as I had supposed. The stem was hollow. Its identity, I decided, would come to light if the discarded thing survived, of which, at the moment, I had little hope. I was yet to learn the great and beautiful lesson that God works in mysterious ways his wonders to perform, for, shortly after the planting, I was called away from home, never dreaming the stay would be over THE STRANGER IN MY GARDEN ten days. However, I left instructions with Uncle Rastus to look after the eighteen annuals. 'These I wanted especially to live and blossom for my friends.
Normal weather in 'Tennessee always results in wonderful crops of vegetables, grain, and flowers. But this particular year the weather conditions were not normal.
Never had the oldest inhabitants of our community felt or seen such hot, dry weather. | WHEN I returned to my sunbaked fields and garden of Tennessee from Iowa's midsummer greenness, more than a mist of tears filled my eyes when I looked upon the bed I had planted with so much joyous anticipation. Six nearly dead asters, sagging beneath withered blossoms, six giant marigolds, minus leaf or bloom; and six zinnias, browned by the hot sun, stood drooping in the desolate garden. It was a disheartening experience. Here, where I had planned so much, I found so little. The goldenglow, the summer alder, and the cannas were standing up nobly, but my prized dahlias and purple phlox were drooping and withered. Suddenly, as I lifted a dried frond from a Japanese sunflower, my thoughts reverted to the last plant of my setting, and I turned my eyes toward the long-neglected corner. For a moment I stood blinking in the sun! Was my brain affected, or my vision bad?
Something was wrong, for there in the corner I either saw or imagined I saw a plant rising some six feet into the air and 311 literally covered with the most gorgeous orange-red blossoms I had ever seen! Not sure that the whole was not an hallucination, I made my way to the corner, touched the slightly prickled leaves, and laid my cheek against one of the gorgeous blossoms.
Just then the man who tended my garden came up. "Sorry, Miss Ellen," he said, apologetically, "but water got so scarce we had to let the flower garden go." "But this—this beautiful thing, Uncle Rastus," I queried, "what is it?"