Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued.) V. A well defined path led me farther down into the valley. I passed a number of huts, but they were unoccupied. When the grass land became level enough to mow, I saw that hay had been cut from it;  and here and there also were newly made fields of yellow stubble. I now also saw more sheep, besides cows and horses. The horses were of the small, hardy breed which I had seen in Norway. But I found no more human beings until I had walked for about two hours. Then I was overtaken by two men riding in a four-wheeled wagon drawn by two horses. They were coming along at a lively rate, and did not see me until they were close up to me. Then they reined in their horses and looked wonderingly at me. I, however, did not stop to parley, but at once gave them my written message. They read it and understood. They looked closely at me again, speaking in some unknown tongue. I replied in English but none of us was the wiser. Then they turned around, after making me to understand that I was to keep on the road straight ahead. They were soon out of sight, and I plodded on with my precious grip, now my only piece of baggage. In looking over what I have thus far written, I fear that BEYOND ARSARETH 149 I have dwelt at too great a length on the details of my account. At this rate, I shall hardly reach the more important part, so I shall have to omit much that I have seen and heard, and try to tell the main points only;  but I am prone to ramble, I see that;  especially when my thoughts go back from whence I came, and to those whom I have left. Perhaps, in time, I shall altogether forget that other world, even as they say here, that all mankind lived in a spiritual world but forgot all remembrances of it when they were born into this mortal life. I sometimes wish that I also might have forgotten all that I had known and felt back there in the world;  but again, that perhaps is the wish of a weakling, who shrinks from that which God has been pleased to place upon him. That day I took my time, expecting that the wagon with my injured young friend would overtake me, but the hours went by and I saw nothing of him. The country became more level, the fields were larger, there were small trees, fences of stone, and houses. People, too, became more numerous, but I walked along the wagon road unobserved for a long time. I know now that I did not appear very different from the people in the land, not even in dress. I wore a beard, as did all the men, and my sailor cap looked quite like the male headdress in this land. In the distance I could now see the larger houses of a good sized town. There were chimneys from which issued the commonplace smoke, which, nevertheless means so much. I was tired, and, oddly enough, now that I think of it, my first thought was to find a good hotel. I sat down to rest by the roadside, thinking of my strange condition in this strange land;  but I had no time to conjure up evil forebodings, for soon I saw coming along the road the wagon containing the two men and the injured boy. He saw me at once, and beckoned me to a seat by him, which I gladly took. Then we drove on towards the town. The jolty wagon hurt him, I could see, so I had him rest his head on my shoulders and I eased the jarring as much as possible. Most of the town consisted of large stone houses, one and two stories high, and roofed with red tile. They were built closely together, and some places it seemed that whole city blocks were occupied with one building, joined around the streets, and forming a court in the center. There were a great many people, men, women and children, on the streets, coming and going in and out of archways into the blocks. It was all most interesting to me, but I could not observe the people closely at that time. We at last drove through a doorway into a large yard without being observed, to the home of the young man. He was lifted into the house and carried up a 
 broad flight of stairs to a large room on the second floor. I followed, grip in hand. The house looked as if it might have been a first class hotel, after all, and the most natural thing for me to do was to write my name in the register. But I only stood modestly by the wall out of the way, while the boy's mother, a beautiful elderly woman, moaned and cried over her suffering boy. Then came more women, and men, and children, and there was considerable excitement. There were whispering consultations and earnest talking. Then the boy said something at which all became silent, and the group around the couch opened. All turned and looked at me, and then the mother came and took my hand. I could see the gratitude in her face as she thanked me and bade me welcome. Then the older persons present also welcomed me, and I felt that I was indeed among friends. Then the boy spoke again and I was soon led away to a chamber, wherein I was made to understand, I was to be at home and rest. I put my grip on the floor and looked around my quarters. The walls seemed to be plastered and tinted. The floor was covered with rugs. The windows opened out upon the street and into the yard and were made of small panes resembling mica set into metal frames. There were stools, a table and a couch spread with woolen coverlets. All was comfortable and cozy, and I wondered greatly at this state of things. After a time, the father of the boy, a man with gray hair and beard, came into the room, and with him a girl carrying food on a tray. She set the tray on the table, and then withdrew. The old man tried hard to make me understand his gratitude, and then he opened a door and showed me a bedchamber where I could rest. He then left me, after trying to tell me that he would come again when the sun came around to the east, which meant in the morning. I ate of what was placed before me, and then went into the bed room. The bed was as comfortable as any I had ever slept on. The noises outside grew fewer and at last everything was as still as night. I drew the shade on the window, then undressed and went to bed. Oh, how good that felt! Yet I could not sleep for some time. Here was I, the first man of the strenuous world which I had left, to reach the unknown region near the North Pole. I was the great discoverer, yet no one knew it. I had reached that region on the earth for which many had striven all in vain. Pluck and energy and money had combined without result. The secret had lured many brave men to their death. Equipped with all that experience and learning could suggest and money buy, men had braved the dangers of that terrible wall of ice, had tried to penetrate that vast field where the BEYOND ARSARETH 151 silence and the cold and the whiteness are akin to death. Yet no one had ever reached this pleasant land and returned to tell of it. The mighty white arm encircles their green spot and jealously guards it from the rest of the world. But I had gotten within — I who had not tried, I who had no desire for this. If then I could only get back again — no, I did not want to get back. I felt even then that I had come among "friends famous and man pleasant would places be. —The but learned if I could of get the back, world what would a flock to me and listen to my words. Wealth would be mine and great honor. Ah, yes, perhaps with all these I might have some weight with one other person, who was neither wealthy nor greatly learned, now — yes, I speak truly, now very beautiful when judged by the standards, yet who would be to me more than all that wealth or fame could give. Strange, what seeming trivial things make up the real things of life — the only real things that are worth while. Maintain arise on the earth;  rivers flow on to the sea;  the seasons come and go;  nations of men and women arise, grow mighty and fall;  continents might split asunder and be drowned in the deep;  worlds might vanish into dust and dissolve into their native elements;  still all of this in the balance cannot equal a little something that dwells deep in the heart. (To be continued) to rear a family.  was poem composed by Mrs. Emily Woodmansee, 'Who Cares to Win a Woman's Thought.' There is a bright day coming but we need more wisdom and humility than ever before." Roster of Men. The roster of the men who were in that legislature recalls a large roll of the leaders and founders of the life of this state and this people. Brigham Young, naturally, was not there, but he was represented by his counselor, George A. Smith. President Young had committed the measure into the able hands of Abraham O. Smoot;  he was made chairman of the joint committee. George Q. Cannon introduced the bill in the council, Peter Maughan in the house. Following are the men who were in the legislature in 1876: Council — George A. Smith, president. Iron;  Lorenzo Snow, Boxelder;  Ezra T. Benson, member elected before legislature met. Rich county;  Orson Hyde, Sanpete;  Wilford Woodruflf, Salt Lake;  Daniel Harrington, Utah;  George Q. Cannon, Salt Lake;  Erastus Snow, Washington;  Abraham O. Smoot, Utah;  William Jennings, Salt Lake;  Moses Thatcher, Cache;  and Joseph A. Young, Sevier. House — Orson Pratt, speaker, Salt Lake;  John Taylor, Salt Lake;  Joseph F. Smith. Salt Lake;  Franklin D. Richards, Weber;  A. P. Rockwood, Salt Lake;  John Rowberry, Tooele;  MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN Women Will Celebrate Golden Jubilee Marking Fiftieth Anniversary of Suffrage in Utah. Fifty years ago,