School Lunches Ethel Melville, University of Utah Foods Children Should Have and Lunch Basket Suggestions. If children are to be strong and healthy and do good work in school, they must be properly fed. Too many of them are eating unwholesome food at noon and thereby depriving their bodies of the nourishment necessary for energy and growth. Luncheon for school children, from the standpoint of health, is no more important than any other meal of the day, but it is more difficult to keep up to the standard of wholesomeness and cleanliness. Growing children have special needs in the way of food. Even when they always eat at home, it is no easy matter to see that they are properly fed, and when they eat the mid-day meal at school, the difficulty is far greater. This is not because wholesomeness and cleanliness are more important in this meal than in any other, but because they are harder to secure. In order that children may be strong and well, their food must first provide the materials for building and repairing the body; it must furnish energy or fuel for the work of the muscles; and it must serve to regulate the intricate chemical changes on which health and growth depend. Vegetables and fruits are particularly valuable as sources of the necessary mineral matters and vitamines, the lack of which may lead to under-development and to such diseases as rickets and scurvy. Many vegetables and fruits also tend to prevent constipation. Cereals may be depended upon for a large part of the fuel that every active child needs. Sugar also has a useful, place in the child's diet as a fuel and as a flavoring. For a child eight to ten years old an allowance of two ounces (four level tablespoon fulls) of sugar a day to be used in cooking or eaten in other ways is not too much. The point to remember about sugar and sweets in a child's diet is that they should be served chiefly at the end of the meal. If eaten between meals or at the beginning of a meal they take away the appetite for more important foods. Milk is regarded as a necessity in the diet of every normal child, because it supplies, in an easily digestible form, the necessary tissue-building material, and is a good combination of vitamines, lime, and protein. A quart of milk a day, served partly as a beverage and partly in other ways, is not too much for a child. Wherever possible the child should be permitted to carry 460 a small bottle of milk to school to drink at recess. He will like this, especially if he can drink it with a straw. This will not take away his appetite for regular meals and it will tide him over until dinner time. Eggs are a good supplement to milk, in that they supply iron, in which milk is lacking, In the light of present knowledge of the requirements of the human body in childhood, one of the worst diets that could be devised would be made up chiefly of bread and sweets, There is likely to be no danger, however, if the child has each day at least a pint and a half of milk?a quart is better?a potato, an orange, some green vegetable, and an ounce of butter. If the children can come home at noon, conditions may be much more favorable for a wholesome lunch. There is no reason why the ordinary family dinner cannot be so prepared that it is entirely suitable for school children. The usual first course of meat and vegetables, if simply cooked and not highly seasoned, contains nothing, except the meat, that cannot be given to children, and for them, milk or eggs can be easily substituted for meat. Suitable desserts are fruit, fresh or cooked, with cake, custards and custard puddings, gelatine dishes, cereal puddings, simple ice cream, water ices, junket and blanc-mange. If the time for the noon meal is limited, it should be served promptly and in such a way that there are no delays. If this is done, an otherwise hurried meal may be changed into one at which there is plenty of time for eating and for attention to good table manners. The meat, for instance, may be sliced before it is brought to the table, and the desserts may be served in cups or individual portions. The basket lunch must usually be prepared at a time when the housekeeper is very busy. In places where there are shops near the school, therefore, children are sometimes given money with which to buy food at noon. They like this, of course, for it is a pleasure to make their own selections and they are glad to be relieved of carrying baskets. If they could choose wisely, there would be no objection to this plan. However, it is found that the money is often spent for dirty or otherwise unwholesome foods. "Hot dogs," cakes, and candy; or, at best, only starchy foods are likely to make up the bill-of-fare, and thus the good effects of careful feeding at home are likely to be overcome. It is much better in this case that the children should bring their lunches from home. The basket lunch is harder to plan and also to prepare than the lunch at home. It is not easy to keep food clean and attractive when it must be packed and carried in a lunch box. There are many foods that cannot be included in it, either because they are not good cold or because they cannot be conveniently packed 462 Hard-cooked egg yolks, which, unlike hard-cooked whites, are not '. Considered difficult to digest, make good filling for sandwiches. Sandwiches made from whole-wheat bread, lettuce, and egg yolks, seasoned with lemon juice and salt are palatable and rich in iron: and vitamines. At all times the children's lunches should include as much fresh fruit as possible. During the spring and summer apricots, cherries, strawberries, peaches, pears, and plums are as a rule easily obtained. When these are not on the market, oranges, figs, dates, apples, and dried fruits can usually be purchased. Slices of canned pineapple may also be wrapped in paraffin paper with the lunch. The following bills of fare for basket lunches may help in deciding what is satisfactory. Many others equally good will suggest themselves:; 1. Crisp roll, hollowed out and filled with chopped meat or fish, moistened and seasoned, or mixed with salad dressing; apricots, or a mixture of sliced fruits; cake. 2. Lettuce or celery sandwiches; cup custard; berries. 3. Cottage-cheese sandwiches, or a pot of cream cheese with bread and butter sandwiches; peanut sandwiches; fruit; cake. 4. Hard-cooked eggs; baking powder biscuits; celery or radishes; brown sugar or maple sugar sandwiches. 5. Bottle of milk; thin corn bread and butter; dates; apple. 6. Thermos bottle of hot soup; raisin or nut bread with butter; cheese; orange; jelly roll.: 7. Baked bean and lettuce sandwiches; apple sauce; sweet chocolate. 8.. Sandwiches with sliced tender meat for filling;- baked apple; cookies. 9, Slices of meat loaf or bean loaf; sandwiches; stewed fruit; small frosted cake. THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY CATALOGUE ? A copy of the catalogue of the Brigham Young University for the year 1924-1925 has reached our office. It indicates expansion in the courses of the institution and an increase in the quality and number of the faculty. Since the catalogue came from the press announcement has been made of an appropriation by the Church of $125,000 for the erection of a library building. This building will furnish the needed room for the; expansion of the library, and free other space necessary for class room expansion; so that there is indication of growth in the institution, from a number of very important angles. Etiquette Etiquette is a subject that has always been of interest to women. Recently Vogue has published a series of articles on Etiquette, we are including article twenty-three as it is a summing up of the series. When the writing of these essays was first considered, it seemed almost impossible that anything could be found to say on the subject of etiquette which had not already been said, rightly or wrongly. Some books on the subject were appearing, or about to appear. Some had been for a time on the market. Some were vague; some too particular; and these must have made life extremely complicated for simple people, by picturing the most natural happenings and suggesting the most appalling mistakes in connection with them. Certain advertisements showed men and women engaged in the usual actions of every-day life and attached the most sinister consequences to almost all of them, till the timid might have hesitated to appear in public. Now, all these terrifying examples are unnecessary. The essential of good public behavior is not to call too much attention to anything one does, but otherwise to conduct one's self as ordinary polite manners dictate. Here, then, is one of the uses of the newer etiquette articles: to correct the impression of constant error created by too particular past ones, and relieve the nerve tension they excite. Common Sense?The Guide to Etiquette Errors of feeling, errors of the taste which should come from good feeling, are those to be shunned, not the fictitious bug-bears and bogies erected by false standards of etiquette. Of these, perhaps, the ones which alarm people most are the questions concerning those very relations with their fellows which are supposed to be most pleasantly social, such as intercourse at parties of all kinds, at weddings?even in the ordinary exchange of visits. A great part of the world is more worried about its behavior, as an outward asset, than it need be. Occasions are seldom worth such disquiet of mind, and yet the worthiest people constantly implore information about the correctness or incorrectness of the most ordinary actions. They seem afraid to let common sense and natural consideration guide them. Surely these two attributes are supposed to be part of the American character; why, then, if we possess them, should we not give them fair play? Everybody will grant that there are certain ways of conducting formal functions, ways which have gradually grown into usages, and it is well to know them. But it is not well 464 to be hypnotized by the knowledge, nor terror-stricken if one does not possess it. To furnish an illustration: there was given, some years ago, a large dinner, followed by a performance of celebrated dancers, the entertainment of a kind and generouslady who very much wished to show fitting attention to a great number of people considered socially important. The dinner was not given in her own house,' but arranged in the ballroom of some semi-public place, and the guests were so numerous that the dividing and seating of them at the different tables was exceedingly difficult. The lady called for the assistance of one of her more sophisticated friends, her social godmother, in fact, who was piloting her through the whirlpools of a new-comer's winter season. Now, to take the advice of a woman who knows her world, its mighty and its modest members, its ups and downs, likes and dislikes, is wise, and the giver of the party very sensibly did what she was told in the arrangement of her tables. But she was so completely and snobbishly overpowered by the grandeur surrounding her that she was afraid to take any step on her own initiative, and when, at the very table where she sat, the non-appearance of a masculine guest left two women, for the length of dinner, with an empty seat between them, she was literally afraid to lean across to where there happened to be an extra man and beg him to fill the vacant place. Omission and Submission When the unhappy hostess lamented the incident afterward and was asked why she had not taken this perfectly obvious way of straightening the table, she almost tearfully admitted that she had thought of it, but was "afraid it mightn't have been the right thing to do, and hadn't dear Tilly near to tell her." She was no fool; she had aspirations for herself and kind intentions toward her guests. If she had been among her familiar friends, she would, doubtless, have sent the gentleman from the side of the table where there was a man too many, to the side where men were too few. But instead of using her mind, she sat there paralyzed by the fear of applying wrongly something she called manners, If she had forgotten Tilly and made herself at home at her own party, she would have done the right thing by instinct and shown the real good manners of sense and consideration. A vacant place is not a terrible thing; it interrupts, a little, the circle of talk and the conventional look of the table, but the two women could have drawn their chairs together and made the best of things had it been necessary. The point is that it could have been easily arranged for the better, that the hostess might have so arranged it without trouble, but that she looked on miserably 466 - Yet to do all one's entertaining in restaurants is to d6 it in an atmosphere that has none of the cordial, welcoming, home atmosphere of one kind of dinner-giving, nor the dignified statelines of another. These public merrymakings serve their purpose, of course, and there seem to be more and more interesting little foreign places to be found where one may go for supper after having dined at the famous big American ones, but they do not increase the peaceful intimacy of friendly intercourse. They rather cover. Up the fact that we are not, as a nation, very peacefully intimate. Apart from the ever-decreasing leisure class (such pleasant, cultivated, amiable, easy-going people!), we entertain one another rather tensely; or we relax alone at home. And all this may come from the fact that we are afraid to be natural in company; and perhaps this may come from the fact that too many etiquette rulings alarm the average citizen. Sometime ago, across the Canadian border, a lady having a small house and staff of servants, had, in an emergency, to provide lunch for about twice as many people as she expected. She was quite unperturbed, and although most of her guests were unknown to her, she took them into her confidence, and made them feel entirely at home, while she explained that half - must sit down at one hour and the other half as soon as the first had eaten and the table could be reset. Her entire freedom from any self-consciousness or embarrassment, her gay hopes that the second comers would fare no less well than the first, made her an excellent example of good, natural manners, and a lesson to all hostesses who try to behave more genteelly than sensibly. Wedding questions still continue to be numerous. Churches which have two side aisles, instead of one main aisle, seem to cause great bewilderment to brides, who constantly inquire which is the proper aisle to use for going up to the altar and which for coming away. This is the sort of thing one would think an intelligent young woman could settle for herself. The natural inclination would be to walk up the right side of the church and down the left. Well, why not yield to the natural inclination? Though no matter which way the thing was decided, there could be no harm done. But no. Girls must be told. They have attached an arbitrary idea of convention to this proceeding, and they seem to dread comment more than, except for real lapses in good breeding, comment should ever be dreaded. The passion for rules exhibited by brides and their families, and indeed by many people who wish for information about costume and custom, is not to be believed. To tell them that outside a few fixed standards, there is a great and ever greater latitude allowed for people's individual taste is to tell them what they do not apparently want to hear. Very often, only general advice can be given. If one BRIOUETTE. 467 does not know the interior arrangement of a house, how can one tell where the young couple should stand to receive congratulations, or at what spot the mother of the bride should welcome her guests? The former in an inner room, the latter near the door of the main one, would be the usual reply. But if people demand whether congratulations should be received more properly between the windows, or before the fireplace? Whether the mother of the bride should stand so many paces to the right or the left of the door? What can one say? Definite answers not accurate ones, seem to be required. Accurate, nobody can be where there is not a fixed rule, but positive anybody can be. Does mere positiveness inspire confidence? Pehaps it does in more cases than the independent spirits of the world imagine. But the really sensible way is to give the general reason for certain actions and let the individual work out the details. The young bride and groom stand: wherever there is space enough for their friends to move toward and away from them without too much confusion. A constant circle of people can speak to them and pass on, if this is well managed. The mother of the bride stands near enough to the door to see her guests as they come in and far enough away not to block the entrance if one or two pause to talk to her. Given the philosophy, surely the application of it to any surroundings should be easily within the power of the average mind. The Elasticity of Etiquette Answers about the wedding food, too, depend upon so many things: the means of serving it, the time of day, the personal fancy of the family, the number of people asked to the house. The menu for a "sit-down" breakfast would differ from that arranged for an afternoon tea, yet either might be used at a wedding. Dress, also, may vary from the most girlish muslin to the richest silver brocade, and from possible country combinations with white flannel trousers to the conventional evening dress for men, if by any chance an evening wedding were on the tapis. As for the wedding procession, if a single formula for it could be given, how dully alike all the ceremonies would be! The truth is that from none to a dozen or more attendants, male and female, a bride may have what she pleases. Good taste simply suggests a wedding not unsuitable to her circumstances. For those who are still anxious about visits and when to pay them, there are always intricate Old World laws which may be requoted (such as, "Leave cards within the week after a dinner party," "Visit a bride within two weeks after her return home"), but modern customs make light of most of them, particularly metropolitan customs. In the big cities, people keep up only 468 the most elementary of pasteboard politeness. The well-bred ? e'ders pay visits after dinners and parties; they may remember the days at home of the few people who have days at home; they go to see brides! They do not forget even the most distant of their acquaintances in affliction. The juniors, if they have been well brought up, know they ought to pay their elders visits after having dined or danced, or been in any way entertained at their houses, but with one another they are extremely casual. They are intimate in small circles, and rather indifferent to what goes on outside to them. Newcomers find New York a not too friendly place, particularly when contrasted with smaller cities. But New York lives under such pressure, so many interests and amusements are already crowded into the days and nights of its gayest set of people, that any obligation to be more than polite to a stranger comes to them as an extra effort; and an extra effort is almost impossible! At Newport, they might, if they liked her, clasp the newcomer to their bosoms, and by the time the New York season began she would be a friend. But in that hard city, unless she had married into their midst, or had come already accredited, or was known to have some excellent social attribute, the mere fact of her being gentle, pre-possessing, pleasant, altogether a "nice little woman," would not swing wide the doors of many houses at a time. She would have to expect a very gradual progress. A young woman from another city married to a well-known New Yorker would naturally be visited and entertained by her husband's family and connections, and if she showed herself able and willing to play the game as they played it, their friends and their friends' friends would follow suit. But if she were dull, or didactic, or had too dangerous a tongue, she might never be more to them than the "young woman poor Benedict married," and as such never admitted to their very innermost circles. Young people settling in a city unknown to them had better, if-it is possible, manage to take letters to some of the older residents. When presented, such letters should bring, at the least, visits from the persons to whom they were addressed; which visits when returned, should begin an acquaintance. A newcomer is not supposed to start the ball rolling to herself, and, unfortunately, it is sometimes slow in beginning to roll. The Clergyman and the House-Party One interesting question about the proper treatment of clergymen when an afternoon visit happens to land them in the middle of an easy-going, country house-party has been asked. A good deal, of course, depends upon the clergyman, as well as on the house-party. But there should be some meeting-ground. Clergymen who are also men of the world, as far as the usage of good ETIQUETTE 469 manners goes, can usually accommodate themeselves to their surroundings. If they should show signs of prim provincialism, the members of the house-party must be considerate enough to subdue their conduct and conversation to a suitable, if slightly serious key. The church man seldom objects to being treated as a man and a brother, provided it is an elder brother, before whom one does not play ribald tricks. But then no gentleman cares to be 'ribald before a man whose principles it might offend. Otherwise, why not welcome the parson to. Any party which a layman of ordinary decency could be given at his house? Our essay on such words and expressions as are, 'and are not, used among the class of people called smart, chic, distinguished, well-bred, well-born, socially important, whatever other people like to call them, has been the subject of much outside comment. Grammar has been called into question, and certain phrases have caused criticism. Well, the speakers we quote are by no means impeccable. But there is a deadly secondrate correctness, born of too much unassimilated "culture," which seems as ridiculous to them as the even deadlier too-good manners learned from formulas. "No gentleman," said Mr. Pepys, "should dance as well as the dancing-master." And what that means is that peop: e, or (as one lady entreated us always to say) "persons" of the same set, or (as she further recommended, according to biological usage) "groups," need not be formal or pedantic, but may behave with easy politeness and speak colloquial English, as long as it is the English, and the ease, of the well-bred. They do not pretend to be teachers, and one does not pretend it for them, but as they are reported for the ways _they live, move, and have their being, so we report them for their ways of speech; as we report other ways which mark, to their ears, the speech of the outsider. This is sometimes too good and sometimes not good enough. But no group need imitate the mode of speech obtaining in any other group unless the reason given for a certain use of certain words should happen to appeal to its reason. For instance, the word "intimate" means inmost near, familiar?an intimate friend. Yet the newspapers, and many people, speak of "close friends." 'Close,' to the smaller set (or group) means near in body only: "intimate" means near in spirit; "ugly" means offensive to sight, the opposite of beautiful, and has nothing to do with a person's disposition; but to the general public "ugly" is an adjective descriptive of temper. These differences do not make or mar, but they exist and are set som, as one sets down the fashion in boot heels, to take or to eave. Attention has been directed to the fact that no rules were laid down for that phase of table manners concerning the use 470 of the knife and fork together, and the fork separately. Really, this is a matter of convenience. If one has nothing on one's plate to cut up, one naturaliy takes the fork in one's right hand.. If one is eating something which needs the constant use of. The knife for cutting, it would be absurd to put that implement down every other moment and shift the fork to the right hand. One teaches a child the rudiments of knife-and-fork management, but one expects a grown-up person to apply them with some common sense. That indeed is the aim of our essays. To beg people to show common sense in their application of all ru'es about manners; and to remember that politeness is only common sense, considerately and tactfully used to keep some peace and pleasantness in that portion of society which still values it.