Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? GRATITUDE Take Time to Feel Grateful. By Lella Marler Hoggan "There's an old spinning wheel in the parlor, Spinning dreams of a long, long ago." ?-Billy Hill REAMS and visions have shaped the destiny of the race. Always and forever men are following ideals, seeking paths that lead to peace and security, to "liberty and justice for all." When Moses led the children of Israel out of bondage, it was the knowledge that they were being divinely guided into a Land of Promise that gave them courage to meet the adversities of the wilderness. Lehi's vision was the incentive that led him and his family over land and sea to a new world. It vas following a dream of better thing; 'tat brought the Pilgrim Fathers out of the bog of fear and superstition across an uncharted sea to the land of freedom. And the Prophet Joseph Smith's glorious vision is the divine revelation on which Christ's beautiful gospel of this latter day is founded. It is the light of progress that led the pioneers across the prairies and the mountains to their beloved Utah; the ideal of righteousness that drew men and women from many nations and many walks of life, through toil and privation and sorrow, to the mecca of their dreams. ARE we going to lose the memory of that glorious vision? Do we undervalue that divine ideal that gave men and women courage to From the song "The Old Spinning Wheel," Copyright 1933, by Shapiro Bernstein and Co., Inc., New York. Cross the seas. In the steerage; to trudge a thousand miles across the dreary plains, abandoning their household treasures, and leaving their dead in shallow fire-charred graves along the way, with only the stars to keep watch against the hungry wolves? In her Hymn of the Pioneer, Kate Thomas expresses beautifully the courage and the faith of the early day Saints. Here is a short excerpt from her great poem: "Courage, my soul! All is not barren plain. What tho' the way be long and strewed with dead. His word is sure who knoweth all thy pain. Lift up thine eyes, His heaven is overhead. "Praise God, my soul! My children reap the seed Sowed by my faith and watered by my tears, God of the nations, God of every creed, Let them be just to what my soul reveres! "THE restored gospel brought the Saints a new pattern of life, simple, practical, true; a divine pattern, shorn of all superstition and false traditions. So sure of its divine origin were men and women that they were willing to go to the ends of the earth to bring about its fulfilment. They were willing to follow the call whether it led them to the red drought of Dixie, the bleak storms of Bear Lake or the sage brush and high winds of the Snake River Valley. ?Hymn of the Pioneer," by Kate Thomas. LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY In the first years there were long hours of toil, few privileges, no luxuries, and many times meager rations and fear of Indian hostilities. But they were ready to endure inconvenience, suffering and sorrow, if need be, in order to sustain and establish that wonderful message of truth that had come to them. When they came into the valleys of Utah, the men carried with them their plowshares, assured that the way would be opened for them to moisten the baked earth that nourishment for man and beast might be provided. The women brought their looms, firm in the faith that if they would "Get the spindle and distaff ready, God would send the flax.' And when a devastating horde of crickets came upon them, they looked to a divine source for deliverance. Had not the seas been parted for the Israelites that they might pass beyond the reach of their enemies dry shod? And had not water gushed from the rock to slake their thirst, and manna been showered from heaven to sustain them? In like manner the faith of the Saints was vindicated in the miracle of the gulls. Says E. O. Laughlin: "O'er every modern luxury there lies The a" of ancient hardship. He who lies Across a continent on wings of gauze Threads the thin paths of meteors because His fathers wingless, earthbound, as they groped Through marsh and jungle, gazed and hoped. If that vision of truth was so priceless to our fathers that they were willing to sacrifice for it all things of worth, even life itself, is it not also worth time and sacrifice on our part? Are we truly grateful for this beautiful heritage? Are we willing to give a full measure of time and energy to its promotion? Or are we content to give a meager devotion to its furtherance, a lukewarm faith, just the "bark and twig ends," the left over scraps of our time and effort? THE harvest days are over. The winter's store is in the bin. It is a season of gratitude, a day of Thanksgiving. Are we truly grateful for the harvest of life? Is this home coming day a day of tender memories in which we garner from the past all of the gracious blessings that will enrich our lives and inspire our children to higher accomplishments? It is the spirit of gratitude and appreciation that turns the heart of the child to his parents, that gives him a desire to preserve the work of their hands and to finish what they have begun. Let us not forget those heroic souls who paid in coin of sacrifice and sorrow for the luxuries that we now enjoy. Let us not forget the ideals of truth they have established for our happiness. How grateful we should be that God's revealed word has come to us in this day in all its radiant glory. May we rejoice in it and use it to our eternal betterment as did our illustrious ancestors. This little excerpt is from Blanche Kendall McKey's lovely tribute of appreciation of them: "Tonight we burn your candles, pioneers: We glimpse the light that held your eyes and kept you strong. Tonight we catch your vision of the years, We share the courage of your vibrant song."? ?"Pioneer Candles," by Blanche Kendall McKey. Used by special permission of the authors or publishers. Music Department To Our Singing Groups Ors Relief Society organization offers unusual opportunity to women for training and development in the field of music. Our various groups of Singing Mothers throughout the stakes, are making a unique and important place for themselves. They afford a channel for self-expression and development for individual members as well as giving much that is beautiful and inspiring to others. "This is a day of demonstration for the Church," said one of our leaders at a recent meeting. In order to demonstrate what the Relief Society women have been able to accomplish in music and to provide an inspirational atmosphere for an outpouring of the spirit, plans have been made for a massed chorus of Sing-. Ing Mothers at our April, 1938, conference. Singing groups from the various stakes will augment the Relief Society Singing Mothers of Salt Lake City. Not all of our groups may be able to participate in our first venture, but we trust will be prepared to come later. Select your members with care, as to ability. Where there is a great deal of talent the number needn't be restricted to twelve, in fact in some cases it may be desirable to bring the entire membership. If a group is unable to come the chorister will be welcome. In preparation of the songs commit words to memory. Let the Relief Society office know not later than Jan. Ist, 1938 if your stake is participating and the number in the group. PRACTICE SONGS New Serial No. 4,371. "How Lovely are the Messengers," Mendelssohn. Schirmer Co., New York City. "Crossing the Bar," BarnbyAsper. Serial No. 4,446. "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings, O Lord," Rheinberger. Oliver Ditson, Boston, Mass. Serial No. 89,005. "Inflammatus (Chorus only)?Rossini. (One copy.) Flammer, New York City. Old Serial No. 256. 'Holy Redeemer," Marchetti. Oliver Ditson, Boston, Mass. Serial No. 5,106. "Twenty-third Psalm," Franz Schubert. (The Lord is My Shepherd.) Carl Fischer, New York City. Serial No. 7,782. "The Lord's Prayer,'"' Forsyth-Dews. Schirmer, New York City. Instructions regarding the silk blouses to be worn by the Singing Mothers group when they feature the music for the April, 1938 Conference. A shirt waist blouse made in Salt Lake City, such as the Singing Mothers group are now using costs $3.00 complete?this includes material, buttons, ribbon and the making. For those who prefer making their own shirt waist blouse there are two definite requirements?Ist, that the material purchased be exactly the same as that now used by the S. L. Group.