[Vol3 | November 1916 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]
Current Topics. James H. Anderson. Breadstuffs in the United States continue to go up in price and down in quantity on hand. Peace talk is forbidden in Germany by putting in jail those who engage in it freely. The treatment doubtless is effective. Women's skirts, of ankle length and less flaring, is the promise of fashion leaders this is at least an extension of the; covering factor, for which we are thankful. Salt Lake City's taxes, for 1916, are the highest in history. A notable effect of the present system of assessing and levying taxes is to increase unnecessarily the home-owner's burden. Utah troops, or at least a large portion of them, are being permitted to return home from the Mexican border. They had no war experience. Election success this fall is claimed by both the great national political parties, but the contest appears to be so close that it will take November 7 to decide. Statistics given out by the leading nations in Europe would indicate greater prosperity there than before the present war began. Seems like whistling to keep up courage. Private Banks in Chicago are having a hard time of it, ten having failed during the month of September. Their proprietors have ceased to boast of good times. China was the scene of disastrous floods in September, many thousands of square miles of country being inundated, and more than two million people rendered homeless. Congress came to the end of its session in September. It was not the longest session on record, but bears the palm as the most costly to the national exchequer. Interurban rail extension from Utah County into Sanpete County via Nephi, Juab County, is now promised in connection CURRENT TOPICS. 639 with the electric lines which reach from Preston, Idaho, to Payson, Utah. I. W. W. MEMBERS to the number of 627 were fined in a Pennsylvania town, in one day, in September, the charge being disorderly conduct. All were sent to jail to work out their sentences. Caterpillar tractors in war are pronounced a success by the British, who have them, and are declared a failure by the Germans, against whom they are used it is whether you take an inside; or an outside view. "Mormons" in Mexico find at least one benefit from the presence of American troops there, because the "Mormon" settlers are being protected in the possession of their homes and in the cultivation of their crops. Turkey has consented at last for the Red Cross Society to give aid to starving people in Syria. Doubtless Turkey realized that unless she opened the door to humanitarian assistance somebody else would open it for him. Francisco Villa. Mexican revolutionist and bandit, recently attacked the city of Chihuahua, then retired to the mountains to prepare for other incursions. The incident further indicates that the Mexican problem is far from being settled. Blackmailers who have been using threats of exposure under the Mann white slavery act to extort money from rich men have been arrested in Chicago. The prevalent idea is that the victims could not have been wholly above suspicion of being subject to the exposure. Love on the part of a wife for her husband has been held by the Utah Supreme Court to be a valid consideration in conveying property. Evidently those judges are typical Utahns, who place a practical value on the good wife's affection for her helpmate. Vice in a consolidated district in Salt Lake City has aroused such a protest that the plan to effect this again has been abandoned. The fact that the vice element is there to be consolidated, readily gives the impression that Salt Lake is not such a "clean town" after all. Air raids by German zeppelins continue to do much damage in England, both in the destruction of property and in taking,
