[WomansExponent | Vol10 | 1881 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: LEONA. | Author: JAMES G. CLARK]

LEONA.

BY JAMES G. CLARK

	Competent literary critics have pronounced the follow-
ing poem unsurpassed by any other production of its
class in our language. It is perfect in rhyme, beautiful
in figure and expression:

Leona, the hour draws nigh,
	The hour we've waited so long,
For the angel to open a door in the sky,
That my spirit may break from its prison and try
	lts voice in an infinite song.

Just now, as the slumbers of night
	Came o'er me in peace-giving breath,
The curtain, half lifted, revealed to my sight
Those windows which look on the kingdom of light
	That borders the river of death.

And a vision fell solemn and sweet,
	Bringing gleams of a morning-lit land;
I saw the white shore which the pale waters beat,
And I heard the low lull as they broke at their feet
	Who walked on the beautiful strand.

And I wondered why spirits could cling
	To their clay with a struggle and sigh
When life's purple autumn is better than spring,
And the soul flies away, like a sparrow to sing
	In a climate where leaves never die.

Leona, come close to my bed,
	And lay your dear hand on my brow,
The same touch that thrill'd me in days that are fled,
And raised the last roses of youth from the dead,
	Can brighten the brief moments now.

We have lived from the cold world apart,
	And your trust was too generous and true
For their hate to o'erthrow; when the slanderer's dart
Was rankling deep in my desolate heart,
	I was dearer than ever to you.

I thank the great Father for this,
	That our love is not lavished in vain;
Each germ in the future will blossom to bliss,
And the forms that we love, and the lips that we kiss
	Never shrink at the shadow of pain.

By the light of this faith am I taught
	That my labor is only begun;
In the strength of this hope I have struggled and fought
With the legions of wrong, till my armor has caught
	The gleam of Eternity's sun.

Leona, look forth and behold
	From headland, from hillside, and deep,
The day-king surrenders his banners of gold.
The twilight advances through woodland and wold,
	And the dews are begining to weep.

The moon's silver hair lies uncurled
	Down the broad-breasted mountains away;
The sunset's red glory again shall be furled
On the walls of the west, o'er the plains of the world,
	And shall rise in a limitless way.

O! come not in tears to my tomb,
	Nor plant with frail flowers the sod;
There is rest among roses too sweet for its gloom,
And life where the lilies eternally bloom,
	In the balm-breathing gardens of God.

Yet deeply those memories burn
	Which bind me to you and to earth,
And I sometimes have thought that my being would
		yearn
In the bowers of the beautiful home to return
	And visit the home of its birth,

'Twould even be pleasant to stay
	And walk by your side till the last:
But the land-breeze of heaven is beginning to play—
Life shadows are meeting Eternity's day,
	And its tumult is hushed in the past.

Leona, good-by; should the grief
	That is gathering now, ever be
Too dark for your faith, you will long for relief,
And remember the journey, though lonesome is brief,
	O'er lowland and river to me.


THE Spanish government has issued a decree
permitting the Jews to return to Spain. This
concession has been granted at the suggestion
of an influential Israelite to the Spanish minis-
ter at Constantinople.


[Column 1]
