[Vol12 | September 1925 | Sequence: 08b | Category: Editorial | Title: The National Council of Social Work]

The National Council of Social Work
In his presidential address at the opening session of the
National Conference of Social Work, William J. Norton, of
Detroit, upheld love as the mainspring of social work. Love
he described as the "thin film of protection between the wheels
of life which lubricates them and keeps the whole machine
from burning out in the merciless friction of living," as the
force which "lifts man from the plane of the beasts and
stretches his stature upward until he can see and hear God."
The same theme expressed in terms of more tolerance and forebearance,
less race prejudice, greater protection for childhood
and youth, better ways and means of promoting all phases of human welfare, ran through the eleven sections of the conference.
This was the fifty-second annual meeting of the Conference
of Social Work. It was held at Denver, Colorado,
June 10-17, 1925. Many noted educators, physicians, judges,
statesmen and sociologists appeared on the programs of the
various meetings. Utah contributed two speakers to the conference—
President Franklin S. Harris of the Brigham Young
University, Provo, who, says the July issue of the "Survey,"
"made a strong plea for mutual forbearance and understanding;"
Miss Adaline Buffington, general secretary Charities
Organization Society, Salt Lake City, who spoke on the
"Automobile Migrant" and whose discussion of the subject
called forth much favorable comment. On the program of the
general sessions were such subjects as: "The Menace of
Racial and Religious Intolerance," the "Child Labor Amendment,"
"What Shall We Do About War," "Social Aspects of
the Japanese Question." The conference was divided into
eleven divisions as follows : Children, Delinquents and Correction,
Health, The Family, Industrial and Economic Problems,
Neighborhood and Community Life, Mental Hygiene,
and so on.
The status of women in the new profession of social work
and the quality of the leadership they have to contribute was
borne out by the election of Miss Gertrude Vaile, a native of
Clolrado and secretary of the Department of Charities and
Corrections of that state, to the presidency ; and the election
of Dr. Miriam Van Waters, referee of the Juvenile Court of
Los Angeles, to the vice-presidency. Such women as Jane
Addams, Grace Abbott, Edith Abbott, Julia Lathrop, Dr.
Valeria Parker, Judge Mary M. Bartelme served on committees
and contributed to the discussions of the conference.
Utah was represented by forty-three delegates. From
the Relief Society were, Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown
Lyman, Julia A. Child, Julia A. F. Lund, Amy W. Evans of
the General Board ; President Emmaretta G Brown, of the
Granite stake ; President Electa S. Dixon, of Utah stake
;
Marie H. Tanner, secretary of Grant stake; Mabel W. James
and Bae Williams, of Ensign stake; five members of the staff
of the welfare department ; and the social worker of Utah
stake.
Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Y. L. M. I. A., Oscar A. Kirkham
of the Y. M. M. I. A. and Clara W. Beebe of the Primary
Association attended the conference.

