[Vol22 | April 1935 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: A H]

His father, aman of excellent character and great common sense, was a tanner. "I owe everything to him," said the son. "When I was young, he kept me from bad company and instilled into me the habit of working and the example of the most loyal and best-filled life."
Louis obtained his bachelor's degree when he was not yet eighteen years old, and his doctorate when he was twenty-six. On first graduating, he took up teaching, and he continued in that profession till he was called by the government to devote all his time to scientific research on a pension of about two thousand dollars a year. At one time he was dean of the Faculties of Science at Lille University. In his twenty-seventh year he married the daughter of M. Laurent, the Rector of the Academy of Strasburg.
Pasteur was not a physician, as he had wished to be at one time in his career, although he was a member of the Medical Academy?the only one without a medical degree. He was a teacher of chemistry, in which he had specialized at school. As a student he was not particularly brilliant, not even in his favorite subject, chemistry; but this was because his mind was slow, painstaking, and accurate. He never made a positive statement till he was sure of his ground. His parents first and then his wife were forever begging him not to kill himself with work; but he himself complained that "the nights are too long for me." An enthusiastic teacher, he had at first LESSON DEPARTMENT many indifferent pupils, whom he stirred up by such concrete remarks as this: 'Where in your families will you find a young man whose curiosity and interest will not immediately be awakened when you put into his hands a potato, when with that potato he may produce sugar, with that sugar alcohol, with that alcohol ether and vinegar?"
Like all great men he was fully aware of his superiority of smund. "My plan of study," he wrote to a friend, "is traced for this coming year. I am hoping to develop it shortly in the most successful manner. I think I have already told you that I am on the verge of mysteries, and that the veil which covers them is getting thinner and thinner." He worked for the future, not the present, as is evident by this: '"A man of science should think of what wiil be said of him in the following century, not of the insults or the compliments of one day."
This was an obvious allusion to the opposition which he encountered during most of his life. As to his method of work, he says, "When I am in my laboratory, I begin by shutting the door on materialism and _ spiritualism; I observe facts alone; I seek but the scientific conditions under which life manifests itself."' Perhaps the highest tribute ever paid to him was in these words by M. Biot, an illustrious French scientist of his own day: "He throws light upon everything that he touches!" In these times when every one wants to know what the scientist thinks about God, it is interesting to read this from Pasteur: ''I see everywhere the inevitable expression of the Infinite in the world; through it, the supernatural is at the bottom of every heart. The idea of God is a form of the idea of the Infinite. As long as the mystery of the Infinite weighs on human thought, temples 257 will be erected,  and on the pavement of those temples, men will be seen kneeling, prostrated, annihilated in the thought of the Infinite." 2. The Old and the New Order at Grips Few conflicts in history are more thrilling to read about than the one in which Pasteur fought. Only, in his case, the contest was mostly in the mind, rather than on the battlefield. It was a death-struggle between two theories of disease?the old and the new, and the stake was the welfare of the human race. As soon as men, began to think at all about disease, they looked into the body itself for the cause, although they generally sought its cure outside.
This idea came to be expressed in the phrase "'spontaneous generation."
That is, it was supposed that the disease always had its origin in the body where the disease was to be found.