[Vol22 | April 1935 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: The Gate Beautiful]
The Gate Beautiful

Pageant written and arranged by May Fridal and Maude O. Cook, and presented at Tremonton, Utah, March 17th, 1934

(Stage in semi-darkness, figures draped in black groping in confusion. Music: "Lead Kindly Light.")

Reader: The earth lies shrouded in darkness; unfathomable mists of error engulf her; the night of apostasy hangs like a pall over the land; the sun of truth is clouded; no stars of hope gleam forth. "The Cross wanes pale against the brooding waves of blackness."

"The nation's bow to Satan's thrall,
He fills with strife the souls of men;
He seeks to blind them one and all
Lest they the way to life obtain."
—Joseph J. Daynes.

(Trumpet calls to attention.)

Reader: Through the impenetrable gloom, the trumpet sounds. The Voice of Prophecy is heard speaking to the nations.

(Ray of light penetrates darkness.)

Voice of Prophecy, (behind stage.)
Hear oh, ye heavens, and give ear oh earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof. The Lord is God and beside Him there is no Savior. Great is His wisdom, marvelous are His ways, and the extent of His doings none can find out. His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay His hand; therefore, hearken ye people from afar and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. His voice is unto all men. Behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. The heavens shall again give light and the glory of the Lord shall fill the earth. His kingdom shall be established in the tops of the everlasting hills, and all people shall flow unto it, saying, "Come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord's house, where He will teach us His ways and we shall walk in His paths."

(Near close of this speech as figures in black are looking upward to the light and listening to voice, the curtain is drawn. As it rises the Prophet is seen kneeling in prayer and over him the Spirit of Inspiration stands with arms extended as if to bless. During this tableau, the duet, "The Morning Breaks," is sung.)

Reader:
"Awake and arise, oh ye slumbering nations,
The heavens fling open their portals again,
The last and the greatest of all dispensations
Hath burst like a dawn o'er the children of men."
—Curtis.

(Curtain rises and reveals Gate Beautiful in rear center of stage, guarded by Spirit of Inspiration. Light floods stage.)

Reader: The new day has dawned. The future beckons all mankind to advance, to achieve, to press on and on and on to greater and still greater heights, for "the glory of God is Intelligence."

Into the light of the new day comes woman to the Gate Beautiful, begging to pass beyond its sacred portals.

From time unmeasured the heavy hand of ignorance and superstition had been over her to bind, and shackle, and oppress. Now shrinking and half afraid she pleads that she might enter into the new day of hope and promise.

(Woman enters at rear of stage and comes begging to Gate Beautiful. As reader says, "To bind, and shackle, etc.," figures in grey or black bent with burdens pass across rear of stage.)

Woman: Oh, thou Spirit of Inspiration, pray illumine the way, dispel the mists of darkness and error. Aid us to attain the heights of which we dream. Fulfill the promise that the wilderness shall be as the rose, and the desert as the garden of the Lord. Make the voice of melody to gladden the heart, that peace, and joy, and thanksgiving shall abide in the land.

Remember the thralldom of my sisters and open to us the Gate that we, too, may pass into the glory of the new day, that our light may shine forth in eternal praise to our God. Open to us, I pray thee, The Gate Beautiful.
