[Vol22 | April 1935 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson Department]

The love and sympathy we feel for a member of the family who LESSON DEPARTMENT is very sick is very helpful in aiding him to a speedy recovery. The best medical care in the world often fails because the home nursing fails, and the person is neglected, kept in a dark room and not properly cared for.
While it is true that a kind and sympathetic understanding should always exist between a sick person, and the home nurse, there are other things of vital importance to assist the patient to get well. It takes so much more than a dose of medicine to make a person well.
Sanitary surroundings, fresh air, cleanliness and sunshine are of vital importance in promoting physical and mental comfort. The choice of the sick room is important. The room should be well lighted, properly heated, and as quiet as possible. The best room available should be chosen, preferably one located near the bathroom. The furnishings of the sick room should not be elaborate, but rather simple and always clean. All unnecessary articles of furniture, as draperies, pictures and rugs should be removed from the room during a prolonged illness. The linen should be clean and the bed comfortable, for these things are necessary to the physical comfort of the patient. A grate in the sick room adds much to its ventilation. In the winter-time a grate fire is cheerful and serves to burn the papers and the rags containing the discharges of the patient. A small table placed at the bed side well within the reach of the patient, is necessary to hold the small pieces of gauze or paper napkins which can be used as handkerchiefs. On this table a pitcher of water, a clean glass tumbler and articles of a personal nature may be kept. A small paper bag pinned on the side of the bed well within the reach of the patient should contain the rags 261 and other waste articles which only the patient should handle. The appearance of every sick room is greatly enhanced by a bouquet of flowers or a growing plant. A thermometer should hang in the sick room. The proper temperature of the room is vital to the comfort of the patient.
This thermometer should be read frequently and a correct temperature maintained. The proper temperature of the room should be between sixty-five and seventy degrees fahrenheit. You cannot tell the temperature of a room by the way it impresses you.
Sick people are very susceptible to extremes in temperature. The room should contain the right amount of moisture. Dry heat irritates the nose and throat and is very uncomfortable. The proper amount of moisture in the room may be maintained by keeping a kettle of water on the stove, or an uncovered basin of water on the gas heater or the radiator. On a very hot day the hanging of a wet sheet in the sick room will reduce the temperature of the room and supply moisture.
Every sick room should be supplied with plenty of fresh circulating air. By keeping the window partly open at the top and bottom the impure air may escape from the top and the pure air may come in through the bottom opening.
Fresh air does not give a person a cold. In most lung diseases and especially in pneumonia, it is necessary to keep the windows wide open, as the patient is only breathing with part of his lung and the air must be fresh and pure even in the coldest weather. At no time, however, should a patient's bed be in a draft. To avoid this it is sometimes necessary to place a blanket over the head of the bed, or to open a window in the adjoining room to secure proper 262 ventilation.
Cold air must not blow directly on the patient.
Flies must be kept out of the sick room.
They carry disease and annoy the patient.
Sunlight is a powerful disinfectant, but should never be permitted to shine directly in the eyes of the sick person. If necessary you may bandage the eyes by using a dark silk stocking, thus keeping the light out.
Moist cloths should be used in dusting, and should also cover the broom so that the patient is not distressed by air laden with dust.
Soiled linen and dirty dishes should not be left in the sick room. The mental comfort of a patient should always be maintained.
Whispering or loud talking disturbs his peace.
Family discussions and unpleasant observations disturb the patient and retard his recovery.
Keep all news away from the patient that you think might upset him. Don't tell the sick person of your troubles, he has plenty of his own.
Visitors are often a very disturbing problem. It is true that some sick people seem to thrive on having friends around, but in general guests are disturbing and the fewer visitors sick patients have, the better off they are.
There should not be more than two visitors in the sick room at any one time.
Members of the family should divide the time allotted to the caring for the patient, among themselves. It is much better that one person be responsible. "What is everybody's business, is nobody's business." A sick person may suffer neglect and confusion when all the members of the family are trying to wait upon him at once.
BATHING THE PATIENT Close the windows of the sick room twenty minutes before exposing the patient for a bath. A sick RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE person must have a daily bath unless otherwise ordered by the doctor. A bath is always refreshing. It aids the skin in getting rid of many impurities.
Remember that a bath must include the care of the nose, the mouth, the eyes and the hair. And preparation for the care of these must be made before the daily bath is begun. The teeth must not be neglected, and should be cleaned daily with tooth paste and a good brush. A mouth wash must be provided. A teaspoonful of salt to a glass of water may be used for this purpose.
Lemon juice and glycerine added to a glass of water also makes a very acceptable mouth wash, the proportions are lemon juice, one part, to glycerine, two parts.
Boric acid solution should be made by adding two teaspoonfuls of boric acid crystals to a glass of hot water, and it can be used as a mouth wash.
Rinse the mouth with one of these solutions, using cold water to cleanse the mouth afterwards. To keep the nose clean and free, especially in fever cases, vaseline or cold cream may be applied to the nostrils. If the patient's tongue is coated a mixture of equal parts of boric acid solution and lemon juice can be used to clear up the tongue.
Keeping the patient's hair properly combed and brushed adds much to his comfort.
This is often neglected. The sick bed should be protected during the bath by a piece of rubber sheeting. If this cannot be procured a pad of newspaper covered by a flour sack or a piece of cloth, makes a very desirable pad, especially if the cloth and the papers are basted together. A hot foot bath in bed is beneficial in case of sore throat, headaches with fever and in some lung LESSON DEPARTMENT conditions.
Place the rubber sheeting under the basin.
Mustard may be added to the water, not more than one teaspoonful however, which should be mixed in cold water, and added to the foot bath. It is important to keep the knees covered with a blanket while giving a foot bath. The best kind of a bath is a tub bath, but it should not be given without the consent of the doctor. In fever cases and where the patient is very sick a bed bath must be given. In bathing a patient in bed use soap and warm water, but do not allow the water to drip from the washcloth.
Cleanse only one portion of the body at a time, dry thoroughly, and keep the rest of the body covered. In bathing the chest or the abdomen use very warm water and keep the unbathed portion covered. An alcohol rub after the bath is very refreshing and helpful to the sick patient. Bed sores are always distressing and painful, and must be avoided. Any sign of redness or bluish discoloration appearing in the region of the back, the shoulder blades, or the end of the spine, is a warning that a bed sore may develop.
Such an area requires special treatment. It should be kept dry, rubbed frequently with alcohol, and if possible the pressure should be removed.
Turn the patient over frequently, keep the bed free from crumbs and the sheets smooth and without wrinkles. Use talcum powder or olive oil to keep the sick person free from chafing. If the weight of the bed covers is distressing to any part of the body, pressure can be removed. By folding wire netting the shape desired to support the covers. 263
Convalescing patients must be taught early to care for themselves. Eating in bed is always a problem. A very acceptable table, upon which to put a patient's tray containing the food can be made by using the ironing board kept in place by two chairs one on either side of the bed. A grocery box, with the sides removed but the ends intact, may rest on the bed and serve as a bed table. Sick people must have plenty of water?a full glass of water every two hours is not too much for an adult. If a patient is vomiting, cracked ice may be held in the mouth and the thirst will not be so distressing. The question constantly arises as to how to feed the patient. In cases of light fever, it is safe to give plenty of fluids?fruit juices and water. Do not give solid food unless ordered to do so by the doctor. Patients are usually overfed. It is important that the lighter articles of diet be given, such as milk-toast, soups, jello and ice cream. These are easily digested and may be used with safety in some fever conditions. Convalescent patients improve faster if they have something interesting to do. They should be kept occupied. Puzzles, modeling, basketry, drawing, painting, dominoes, checkers, and needlework, are all useful during this important period. The patron saint of all who do home nursing is the great Florence Nightingale. She was first of all a home nurse before she became a professional nurse. Woman's place in the healing art, both at home and in hospitals, was long ago definitely established.
A Bigger Quart Every Bottle of Arden Milk More Butterfat (1.7 Ozs.) More Proteins (1.2 Ozs.) More Milk Sugar (1.7 Ozs.) More Minerals (84.5 Grns.) Call Wasatch 80 for