[Vol22 | April 1935 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Street Trees of Utah Johnson]

Street Trees of Utah Towns are Worthy of Better Care By Rufus D. Johnson, Tree Warden, Salt Lake City
IT was the Irish writer, Shaw Esmond, who paid Salt Lake City one of the most gracious compliments the town ever received. He wrote: "There is a City of Dreams in America as little known so far as I have read her guidebooks as one of Rider Haggard's Lost Cities of Africa. It is easily the most beautiful city I have seen on the North American continent. I think it must be one of the most beautiful cities in the world." Since Mr. Esmond is a native of the green isle, we must expect a bit of blarney from him, nevertheless, there is much truth in what he says. Salt Lake is in fact beautifully situated from a standpoint of natural setting, but much of its charm is due to the vast number of trees which spread out on benchland and valley floor like a veritable forest. What may be said of Salt Lake in this respect is true also of most of the towns of the state, for, to their everlasting credit, the founders of Utah were a race of tree planters from the very beginning.
WHEN the creaking wagons of the pioneer train emerged from the mouth of Emigration canyon, no groves of green crowned trees waved them friendly welcome. One sturdy juniper near what later became Sixth East street and four or five narrow-leaved cottonwoods at Third South and Main streets were the sole tree reception committee. Of course the meandering stream banks were fringed with willow, dogwood, choke cherry and other native growth, but these were low growing and more like shrubs than trees. Except for the conifers of the mountain sides, that is, the pines, firs, spruces and junipers, Utah is scantily provided with good native trees. Box-elders and cottonwoods were plentiful in the canyons, but these are both species of rather inferior quality. The better kinds, such as large-toothed maple, alder, birch and hackberry are all trees of small to medium size, and none of them are particularly adapted to town and street use. So the early settlers were confronted with a pressing need of trees that would transform the sage strewn acres of the valley into something resembling the tree-studded lands they had left behind. While in many instances small trees and cuttings of the larger willows, poplars and the like were brought in the earlier pioneer trains, most of the trees of the first planting cycle were obtained from seeds brought across the plains. These included black walnut, ailanthus, black and honey locust, catalpa and possibly a few others. Lombardy poplar cuttings were brought from St. Louis by William Wagstaff in 1853. Mulberries were imported at an early date in an endeavor to establish the silk industry. Many seeds and plants were brought from California by returning members of the Mormon Battalion and other travelers. Naturally the vital need of the settlers was to first establish fruit trees and berries as a source of food supplies, but hand in hand with this endeavor, a valiant struggle was maintained to create beauty, supply cooling shade and make for maximum health assurance by a liberal planting of ornamental trees.
As settlements extended throughout the state, this tree planting practice was carried to the most remote village, until today it is doubtful if there is a town in Utah that does not boast the beauty and comfort of tree lined streets. The one feature which dulls the edge of our satisfaction at this condition is the fact that early planters did not have a free choice of the best varieties. As a result, the majority of our plantings have been fast growing, short lived species which have quickly arrived at maturity and have become a liability rather than an asset to the various communities. For instance, box-elders in many locations have a life span of but 30 to 40 years. Then they begin to die of various diseases or become brittle with age and are easily damaged or destroyed by wind. Poplars (cottonwoods) become overlarge and constitute a menace to life and property. They uproot pavements, clog sewers and exhaust the soil of surrounding lawns and gardens. In short, at the age a high grade tree is just coming into its prime, trees of the poorer sort are ready for the axe. Perhaps the most outstanding planting error of the past was the tendency to set trees too closely together. Trees must have light in order to function properly and when they are crowded, there is constant competition among them for the life giving sunshine. Thus they are forced upward, fighting for a place in the sun because there is no room UTAH 219 for them to develop outwardly. Unable to grow into the graceful, rounded forms which Nature intended them to have, they assume narrow, straggling shapes, utterly lacking the beauty they should exhibit, and becoming sources of danger through excessive height. This condition encourages that type of mutilation known as "topping," a reprehensible practice which destroys any lingering attractiveness such a tree may possess. The remedy in such a case is not the ruthless hacking of all the crowns, but a removal of the surplus trees so that the remaining ones can round out into natural form. Overplanting is almost as grave an error as underplanting.
WE are grateful to the early planters for the heritage of wonderful trees which have brought us joy and comfort through the years and which have made Utah towns noted throughout the country. But now that we have an almost unlimited choice of tree material and can profit by the mistakes of the past, it is time that we plant better trees in better fashion and so pass on to those who follow us an even more delightful tree heritage than we have enjoyed.
IN Salt Lake City and several other towns of the state, street trees have been placed under the supervision of a shade tree commission. This commission designates the kinds of trees which shall be planted in each street, stipulates the spacing, indicates how pruning shall be done and in general prescribes the care and treatment of all public trees. In order that uniformity shall prevail, all work is done under permit from the commission. Under the old system a street would often show as many different trees and styles of planting as there were houses on the block. Each owner planted according to his whims and the result has always been a jumble of species and spacing that is far from the ideal. Of course there is a certain amount of charm in any tree, but since the street is communal property its treatment in planting should be along lines that will conserve the best interests of all concerned. The trees selected for planting in Salt Lake were chosen for hardiness, immunity from diseases and insect pests, cleanliness and persistence, or long life. They are slow growing, compared with box-elder and poplars, but one cannot find quality and rapid growth in any one tree. These varieties will be found appropriate for any community with climate similar to that of Salt Lake, which means that they will survive in nearly all of the principal towns of Utah. Following is the list: Norway maple, London plane, European linden, green ash, white ash, blue ash, honey locust, horse chestnut, ginkgo and English elm. Siberian, or Chinese elm has been used to some extent, but this tree, though a surprisingly fast grower, is not of good quality and should be used sparingly on streets. The minimum distance for planting is 35 feet apart, but 45 to 50 feet is much to be preferred. Trees planted at the latter distance will touch each other at maturity. After all, we should look into the future in tree planting, visualizing the finished picture rather than being guided by the slender sapling at planting time.
THE JEREMY COTTONWOOD Tree (83 years old) A Pioneer tree growing on the northwest corner of 4th West and South Temple Streets was planted in 1852 by John Jeremy
STREET TREES OF UTAH
EVERY town in the state should have either a shade tree commission or some agency of the city government charged with the supervision of planting and care of street trees. Members of commission serve without pay, and in the smaller towns the executive work might be undertaken by someone already employed by the city, thus providing supervision without additional expense. Even if the work is done at some cost, what is more valuable to any community than the preservation and maintenance of its precious trees?
USUALLY it is to the women of any community that we must look for the promotion and fostering of the beautiful things in life. It is well known that Relief Society members have plenty to do in performing the noble work which is their objective, but what a splendid thing it would be if they would take the welfare of trees as well as humans under their kindly wings, and see to it that the tree traditions of our forbears are upheld in all the towns and villages of our beloved state. Surely no organization is better fitted to urge this work, or could accomplish more in bringing it about.
Dr. Jane W. Manning Skolfield By Annie Wells Cannon
IN the death of Dr. Skolfield, which occurred on the 12th of February, this year, the state of Utah lost a great and noble woman Dr Jane Skolfield was a worthy daughter of pioneers. Her parents, Henry W. And Margaret Galbraith Manning came to Utah in the early covered wagon days and made a home in the desert land where they reared a large family. She was proud of her heritage and like her brave parents not afraid of any task, but made each task a stepping stone to something higher. She rose from student in a village school to teacher, from teacher to a professor of pedagogy, and then became a founder of schools for little children. Even as a child she gave evidence of leadership and the gift of organization. At twelve she was a Sunday school teacher, at sixteen she assisted her father in his small business and did her share of the work on the farm.
ALWAYS eager to advance she set her aim for a profession choosing that of medicine, and became a leading and proficient physician. Her ministrations as a woman physician naturally brought her in contact with many of the unfortunate. Only those who knew her best can tell of the kindness of her great soul. How deeply she sympathized with the young unmarried mothers and befriended them in their dire need as well as served them professionally. Later in life as a member of the board of the state Industrial School this same tenderness was manifest in behalf of the delinquent young people who lived there. They in turn loved her and watched with eagerness her visits, for always she brought into their lives something to make the days seem brighter. When a member of the legislature in 1913 she introduced a number of measures for social betterment. As a merciful benefactor she will be always remembered.
A WOMAN of so forceful a character naturally became interested in different activities for the advancement of women in education and culture, and she became affiliated with several organizations for this purpose. She received many important positions of honor by appointment from state and civic officials, and was many times sent as a delegate to national conventions. In a social way, aside from her professional life Dr. Jane formed many close and loyal friendships. She was especially fond of her association with the members of the Ensign club of which she was a charter member and co-founder.
NOTWITHSTANDING her public career Dr. Jane maintained a charming home life. She surrounded herself with good books, beautiful art treasures, and cultural things. In this atmosphere with her precious family she loved to entertain her friends—dear friends who knew the worth of this courageous woman, who, in fighting life's battles, knew no such word as fail.
DR. JANE W. SKOLFIELD She was in truth a woman who believed the world belonged to the energetic, indeed like "The Happy Warrior" she walked among the 223 tasks of life and turned each necessity to glorious gain. Dear to the heart is the memory of such a friend.
The Emancipation of Women The View of the Church and the Auxiliary Organizations By Olga Kupse, of the Geneva Conference
IT is but a few years ago since woman was considered an inferior being from the intellectual and physical standpoint. And under this simple pretext she was deprived of developing herself; man, her lord and master, found it was right and just that she exist only to serve him. In our day her condition is not much better, if she has the time to earn her bread she is terribly exploited, and has not the right to make laws for her defense, in spite of the fact that she is not forgotten when it comes to paying taxes. From the moral viewpoint her condition is even worse for there are two standards of measurement. Society demands everything from a woman or she is an outcast but excuses the man with an indulgent smile. The laws which govern a married woman are deplorable and in spite of our civilization, we are very much behind in this regard, for a country that wishes to progress must work for the emancipation of woman and for her education, for women's influence dominates the nation.
THE Church of Christ recognizes the liberty of woman in all fields and works for her emancipation. The Mormon woman is recognized as the equal of man. From the religious point of view, she feels the same obligation as he to work for the Church and in the Church. She is recognized equal to man from the moral viewpoint and it is not that she must abandon her principles of purity and honesty but because man must rise to her level. She enjoys civic equality which permits her to express herself and be a personality as real as her husband or brother. The Church has elevated woman in emancipating her and has brought out her true nature. The Mormon woman is educated to the same degree as the man in the sciences, in art, and in sports. She is therefore prepared for her career first in the home and after in society, for it is a great mistake to believe that the education of woman destroys the home. Thanks to her high principles of morality, the Mormon woman aspires above all else to create a home and to rear beautiful and healthy children but further she feels the need of sharing her talent with those less privileged and less gifted. The Church, wishing to interest woman in her own spiritual and intellectual development, gives her the opportunity of opening her heart and doing good, by establishing the auxiliary organizations. The greatest of these organizations is the Relief Society. The Mormon women meet for study, at the same time, working for the well being of those less favored. They organize bazaars for charity and make visits to the sick and poor. The Church has foreseen also, that all work must be followed not only 
  by rest, but also by recreation, and has organized the Mutual Improvement Association, which is divided into two departments, one for the young men, and one for the young women. There the youth have the opportunity for amusement in a healthy and interesting manner, either in music, the drama, the dance or sports, at the same time studying the principles of the gospel. It is in the Mutual Improvement Association meetings that we come to know and love one another, that the true fraternal feeling is developed.
THE development of the auxiliary organizations should call forth all our efforts for there one may sow the best grain. Let us not forget to organize a class for children so that we may give a little love, instruction and joy to the poor little ones who sometimes suffer for the lack of sympathetic care. This is the first duty of woman and very important for the future of the branch. Though Mormon women may be called to be missionaries in the world, their first duty is to work within the Church at home to train the hearts and minds of the little ones, to guide the youth and help the poor and sick. We have need of all the sisters and all the brethren to pilot the work of the Lord to a good harbor. Let us all resolve to wake up and say, "Here I am—I am ready." Here is the thought which I wish to leave with you in conclusion—serving my neighbor is serving God—loving my neighbor is fulfilling the highest commandment. Let us work, my friends, and I ask that God will help us and bless us with His Spirit.
The Great Adventure By Carlton Culmsee
No matter how faintly the springtime breathes Its secret into the wind, or the wreathes Of mist, or the strengthening sun,—Life hears. The furred and feathered prick their ears, And the hearts of seeds that long have lain Asleep, are pierced with delicious pain. Even the human babies know As up and down in the sun they go, Pushed in a buggy or pulled in a sulky Or borne in arms, like gay and bulky Buds unfolding in blanket leaves, Drinking in the sunny air And a whole new world with a serious stare Of one half-eager and yet half-loth To start this great adventure of growth!
Goddess of Air By Minnie I. Hodapp
UP from the isles where the palm-trees wave, To Sprite of the air, Rain-clouds greaten; surges rave; Daughter, beware! Breaking the woof of the sky's thin roof Soar with the mellow moon aloof, Gallantly dare! High in your red-gold monoplane, Ocean-wide flight! Intrepid lady whose joy is pain Whose zeal delight: Nerve and sinew finely taut Vitalized with dauntless thought Steering aright! Into the star-fields wide and clear Eagerly on! Sailing the jeweled atmosphere Storm-bodings gone! Far-winged, musical strains you hear Brief your voice, dispelling fear Cheering the Dawn! Warmly vivid with high emprise Yon beckoning goal; Fate upholds fame's deathless prize To valiant soul! Weary with changeless watching she, Spanning the great Pacific Sea, Sane her control! Into the zone of the sun-god's throne Brilliantly fair, Facing its piercing rays alone Speeding with care; Sails in the harbor; the surf's sweet moan Home! Swift to triumph! Amelia, our own Goddess of Air!
The Gate Beautiful Pageant written and arranged by Mary Fridal and Maude O. Cook, and presented at Tremonton, Utah, March 17th, 1934
(Stage in semi-darkness, figures draped in black groping in confusion. Music: "Lead Kindly Light.")
Reader: The earth lies shrouded in darkness; unfathomable mists of error engulf her; the night of apostasy hangs like a pall over the land; the sun of truth is clouded; no stars of hope gleam forth. The Cross wanes pale against the brooding waves of blackness." "The nation's bow to Satan's thrall, He fills with strife the souls of men; He seeks to blind them one and all Lest they the way to life obtain." —Joseph J. Daynes.
(Trumpet calls to attention.)
Reader: Through the impenetrable gloom, the trumpet sounds. The Voice of Prophecy is heard speaking to the nations. (Ray of light penetrates darkness. )
Voice of Prophecy (behind stage. ) Hear oh, ye heavens, and give ear oh earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof. The Lord is God and beside Him there is no Savior. Great is His wisdom, marvelous are His ways, and the extent of His doings none can find out. His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay His hand; therefore, hearken ye people from afar and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. His voice is unto all men. Behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. The heavens shall again give light and the glory of the Lord shall fill the earth. His kingdom shall be established in the tops of the everlasting hills, and all people shall flow unto it, saying, "Come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord's house, where He will teach us His ways and we shall walk in His paths."
(Near close of this speech as figures in black are looking upward to the light and listening to voice, the curtain is drawn. As it rises the Prophet is seen kneeling in prayer and over him the Spirit of Inspiration stands with arms extended as if to bless. During this tableau, the duet, "The Morning Breaks," is sung.)
Reader: "Awake and arise, oh ye slumbering nations, The heavens fling open their portals again, The last and the greatest of all dispensations Hath burst like a dawn o'er the children of men." —Curtis.
(Curtain rises and reveals Gate Beautiful in rear center of stage, guarded by Spirit of Inspiration. Light floods stage.)
Reader: The new day has dawned. The future beckons all mankind to advance, to achieve, to press on and on and on to greater and still greater heights, for "The glory of God is Intelligence." Into the light of the new day comes woman to the Gate Beautiful, begging to pass beyond its sacred portals. From time unmeasured the heavy hand of ignorance and superstition had been over her to bind, and shackle, and oppress. Now shrinking and half afraid she pleads that THE GATE BEAUTIFUL she might enter into the new day of hope and promise. (Woman enters at rear of stage and comes begging to Gate Beautiful. As reader says, "To bind, and shackle, etc.," figures in grey or black bent with burdens pass across rear of stage.)
Woman: Oh, thou Spirit of Inspiration, pray illumine the way, dispel the mists of darkness and error. Aid us to attain the heights of which we dream. Fulfill the promise that the wilderness shall be as the rose, and the desert as the garden of the Lord. Make the voice of melody to gladden the heart, that peace, and joy, and thanksgiving shall abide in the land. Remember the thralldom of my sisters and open to us the Gate that we, too, may pass into the glory of the new day, that our light may shine forth in eternal praise to our God. Open to us, I pray thee, The Gate Beautiful.
(Inspiration opens Gate and leads Woman to left of stage where a platform with three steps extending around it is located. Solo, "I'm A Pilgrim.")
Reader: Woman now enters a new field of achievement and promise with a prayer in her heart for courage and guidance that with this new power and recognition she may in honor and dignity take her place side by side with man, that together they may fulfill their high destiny and bring to perfect realization a better, brighter day. (Ten girls dressed in pastel shades and bearing lighted candles execute drill and march to back of stage behind fence which supports gate, where they remain.)
Reader: The Master in love sent the three graces, Faith, Hope, and Charity to abide with and to guide fair woman. (Faith enters dressed in white wearing banner across breast, Banner is blue with letters of gold. The word Faith is on banner.)
Faith: Woman, give me thine hand and I shall lead thee along the stormy pathway of life, that thou mayest pass safely over the "Slough of Despond," and the "Mountain of Temptation," and through the mists of doubt and fear and arrive safely at last at the shining shore. I shall give thee strength to endure and understanding that thou mayest not doubt the purposes of thy Father Thou shalt trust in God and have confidence in thy fellow men. Remember that without Faith thou canst not please thy God. (Faith takes Woman by hand and leads her up one step of platform.)
(Enter Hope dressed same as Faith.)
Woman: "Sweet Hope thou art welcome, I have been so sad and lone So desolate and afraid. Come closer Hope That I may touch thy robe. Now my heart seems a little nearer God." —R. S. Magazine.
(Duet, "Whispering Hope.") (Dance representing Hope.)
Reader: Thou blessed Hope, when dark and dreary days confront us, when sorrow, pain, and disappointment overwhelm us, thy voice doth whisper peace, and bids us trust in Him who said, "Come unto Me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I shall give you rest." Verily, "Hope doth spring eternal in the human breast."
(Enter Charity.)
Reader: "Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. And now abideth Faith, Hope, and Charity, but the greatest of these is Charity." (Faith, Hope, and Charity each lead Woman up one step of platform where she is seated. Faith sits on lower step, Hope sits on one other and Charity stands behind Woman.)
(Enter Truth.)
Reader: Hail Truth, thou Spirit of Theology. Thou revealest God in all His majesty and power. Thou teachest of His laws and maketh known His ways. Thou leadest from the grosser walks of life into the warming, peaceful rays of living Light. Thou givest us wisdom and understanding. Thou art "a lamp to our feet and a light to our path." Help us to realize that in the midst of joy and plenty we needs must ponder of the message thou wouldst teach. (Music, "O, Say What Is Truth.")
Truth: In the House of Righteousness there is much treasure, Things long withheld from men are now revealed, Heavenly light gleams forth in all its splendor, The lips of Prophets are no longer sealed.
(Enter Spirit of Testimony. ) (Violin music, "I Know That My Redeemer Lives.")
Reader: "Oh that my words were now written, Oh that they were printed in a book, That they were graven with an iron pen And lead in the rock forever, For I know that my Redeemer liveth And that He shall stand at the latter day Upon the earth; And in my flesh I shall see God."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
(Enter Literature. )
Literature: "Life is rich as down the vista of the years we look And find within time's golden book The treasures of the human mind." R. S. Magazine.
Reader: "In the Book of Literature, Man its author, has recorded his experiences with the Good, the True, the Beautiful." "All that mankind has done, thought, gained, or been is lying in magic preservation in the pages of a book." Oh Woman, forget not Literature, but be mindful of "verses stored with sagas and with songs of old, for "To us in ancient story wonders great are told Of heroes rich in glory and in adventures bold." "Therefore, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom." (During this speech two little pages enter carrying large book and lay it at feet of Woman.)
(Enter Social Service and unfurls Children's Charter. Little boy and girl enter with her and remain at her side.)
Reader: "A challenge to the world is flung, The Children's Charter, hold it high; For every child the word has come Health, love, and happiness is nigh." —R. S. Magazine. Great is thy obligation to humanity. All men are equal in the Father's sight. To them He hath bequeathed life, liberty, and the right to happiness. A place must be found for all on the great stage of life, for each must play his part. The right to work and to achieve belongs to all mankind. Therefore, spare not any effort to seek out the THE GATE BEAUTIFUL needy one and strengthen thou the weak for "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these ye have done it also unto Me."
(Enter Spirit of Peace, the Teacher's Topic.)
Reader: We greet thee, sweet Spirit of Peace, our Teacher's Topic. Thou enterest into the homes each month with Zion's visiting teachers, extending the hand of friendship and good will, cementing all in bonds of unity and love, binding hearts in ties of confidence and trust, that sorrow may be assuaged and suffering relieved.
Peace: "How beautiful upon the mountain are the feet of them that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace, that bringeth good tidings of good that publisheth salvation, that saith unto Zion, 'Thy God reigneth.' "
(Enter Industry.)
Reader: To thee, oh Spirit of Industry and Thrift, doth now our quest for happiness turn. Among thy many duties is the sacred charge to guard and keep the homes and happiness of God's great multitude, —the common folk. Thy busy, willing hands provideth food and warmth. Thou maketh plain, homely necessities into works of art. Thy ingenuity putteth to use all things that there may be no waste nor want. Thou makest our homes and surroundings comfortable and lovely, a place where sympathy and encouragement abides, and like a powerful magnet draws and holds all in chains of love and loyalty that shall endure forever. Thou makest a place where "We may cheerfully turn when the long shadows fall at eventide, to play, and love, and rest, because we know for us our work is best."
Reader: Blessed beyond the woman of any other age, the woman of today finds life rich in opportunity. The opening of the Gate Beautiful brought her into a new day of promise and fulfillment. Hers now the right to desire and to receive, to sow and to reap, to share with man life's joys and sorrows, its hopes and attainments, its privileges and blessings. (As reader is reading the above, the curtain rises and reveals Woman with babe in her arms and crown upon her head. Prophet and Spirit of Inspiration stand in center of stage.)
Woman: "Lo, I rejoice in all these gifts, God gives to Womanhood, But surely the Gift transcendent Is glorious Motherhood." —R. S. Magazine. Motherhood, thou the Gift supreme.
Reader: To thee, our beloved Prophet, who 92 years ago today opened to Woman the Gate Beautiful and led her forth from darkness and error into the resplendent rays of the New Dispensation, we offer our praise and adoration. To womanhood in all the world we say, "Awake to thy glorious opportunities, and with words and deeds give thanks to thy Maker for the gifts, blessings, and possibilities the new day has brought to thee." And to the Daughters of Zion, "Arise put on thy beautiful garments and shine forth that thy light may be a standard for the nations." (Congregation joins in singing, "Praise to the Man.") (Characters are grouped about stage to get best balance and most artistic effects. Colored lights add to effect. Woman is more elaborately dressed than other characters. ) Curtain