[Vol22 | April 1935 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Dr. Jane W. Manning Cannon]

Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
AS April's smiles and tears combined, Bring forth the loveliness God designed, So gentle words to troubled mind, Give balm, like unto gold refined.
LENA MADESIN PHILLIPS, while on her lecture tour, expressed herself as deeply affected by her delightful reception in Salt Lake and again meeting old friends.
FRANCES PERKINS says, "Not only ability but suitability should be the measuring stick for public office for women and men alike."
M. CAREY THOMAS, president of Bryn Mawr college says, "The girls of today are more serious than formerly, franker and have more courage."
ROBERTA NICHOLSON'S bill in the Indiana legislature is to end breach of promise suit extortion. Its purpose is to end unscrupulous women and lawyers from promoting blackmail.
MRS. M. E. P. BROWN, known to early patrons of the Salt Lake theatre as "Lizzie Platt," died last month. She was a clever soubrette actress and the last of that historic dramatic company of pioneer days.
Miss FLORENCE KIMBALL, a former Salt Lake girl, has been elected to carry on the work of the late Mme. Sembrich at the Julliard school of music, New York. She is a granddaughter of Sarah M. Kimball, early Relief Society and suffrage worker.
COLLEEN MOORE'S Doll House is started on a world tour. It cost $435,000, took 700 artists and craftsmen nine years to complete it. The proceeds from the tour will be donated to hospitals for crippled children.
MRS. CLAIRE STEWART BOYER, of Utah, has been awarded a prize for a nature poem—"Poplar Trees," by a Chattanooga writer's club.
GRACE MOORE has been awarded the annual fellowship gold medal for distinctive service in the arts by the society of arts and sciences.
CLAUDETTE COLBERT was noted to have given the best screen performance in 1934 by the motion picture arts academy.
DR. OLGA KNOPH has a new book "Women on Their Own." In it the author concludes that problems of married life really existed before marriage.
EDITH OLIVIER, in her biography of her famous father called "Alexander the Corrector," gives many pleasant glimpses of the social life of this learned compiler of biblical concordance.
ELIZABETH M. ROBERTS' strange story, "He Sent Forth a Raven;" "Romany," another gypsy story by Lady Eleanor Smith; "Many Poppies," a fantasy by P. L. Travers; "Cleopatra's Daughter," by Beatrice Chanler; "Next Time We Live," by Ursula Parrott are some of the late books by women, popular for club reviews.
Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life
KEEP FIT By Lella Marler Hoggan
Guard well thy health: it is the instrument Of life, for grand and noble uses meant: The courage that through change and chance endures, And every gift of happiness secures. —Osgood Eaton Fuller.
OUR bodies are the tabernacles of our spirits. They are a most precious possession. Without them we cannot live the earth life; with them, we may go on advancing through the eternities. How prudent it is, then, that we should guard them and preserve them in soundness and in beauty. The old Greek ideal was to possess, "A sound mind in a sound body." And one of our Heavenly Father's first provisions for our welfare in these latter days, was a health program, a Word of Wisdom, for the "temporal salvation of man." They are simple rules of health, some of which, were a hundred years in advance of science when they were given to our great-grandparents. Those who have lived this Word of Wisdom have found it a promotion to their health, their success, and their happiness. Now that it has stood the test of a century, are we not brave enough to accept it and to live it? William Hawley Smith tells us that "Bodily conditions greatly modify, limit, and determine mental functionings." And just as the quality of the mind is limited and modified by the condition of the body, so is the body, in a large measure, subject to the condition of the mind. "For each bad emotion," says Elmer Gates, "there is a corresponding chemical change in the tissues of the body." Fear, anger, jealousy, every vicious emotion retards the bodily functions, poisons the blood stream, and hastens old age. While love, mirth, confidence, and every good emotion promotes health and prolongs life. Orison Swett Marden claims that a raging temper creates as much poison in the system as the cigarette. How many of us are subject to brain storms? Every condition that saps our energy or uses up our vitality needlessly, is a menace to health and life. We would not pour our valuable, fragrant perfume into leaking containers; then why should we permit our vitality to be uselessly dribbled away? Is it not more precious than any perfume? Should we not be more diligent in conserving our life forces than we are in caring for our trivial belongings?
THE Latterday Saint mothers have a full program. It is crowded to the very margin of the page. To be good wives and mothers, and at the same time, to enrich and beautify life, is no small undertaking. The Master came that we might have life more abundant. And it is 232 to drink from this fountain of joy, that we are climbing up the sunlit heights. But how can we obtain a full measure of happiness if our bodies are weary and broken? How can we play the game of life efficiently if we are contaminated with poison and fear? If we expect to gain inspiration and permanent satisfaction from our efforts, we must keep fit physically and mentally. Is it not necessary that mothers should have rest periods and a leisure time program, as well as the rest of the world?
WE burn the candle at both ends and then wonder why it is consumed so quickly. We not only use up our regular supply of energy, but we draw on our reserves from day to day, and still expect to be prepared to meet any emergency that may arise. We permit ourselves to go in debt to live from year to year, and yet hope to make an honest settlement some day. By what school of logic do we reach such conclusions? In ten or twenty years from now, our grown children may surround us with comforts and try to prolong our lives. But neither money nor effort can add one year to a life that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has run its course. We can't reach back through the years and undo what has been foolishly done.
Exhaustion is dangerous.
Rest and relaxation reduce worry and renew bodily energy. How many of us know how to "let go," to close the door of the mind against all care, and revel in the sublime beauty of poetry and song? How many of us know how to "wash the slate clean" at night, and retire to our rest relaxed and unafraid, to a night of untroubled sleep and a glad awakening?
Life here and now, is for our joy as well as our development. Let us learn to conserve and guard our health, that we may lengthen out the years and make them sweeter and more worth while. If we would know how best to accomplish this fine art, we may study our divinely inspired health program. It was given "for a principle with promise," a promise that is well worth the price of obedience. Health, vigor, and stamina, and hidden treasures of knowledge, are to be ours; and the destroying angel shall pass by us as in the days of ancient Israel. "The first wealth is health,' said Ralph Waldo Emerson.
Shall we not then include it with our cherished treasures?
Working with the Czechoslovak Women's Council By Martha Gaeth THE Czechoslovak Women's Council is a federation of fifty-two women's organizations in Czechoslovakia with headquarters in Prague. I was first attracted to its work by the strong and winning personality of its President, Mme. F. F. Plaminkova.
Like a powerful dynamo, she electrifies everything about her. To be near her is to be swept into a current of energy, activity, and accomplishment. She is fearless and frank in her statements. Her efforts in behalf of women have brought her ever increasing recognition in her country. She left the teaching ranks to enter politics.
Today she is a senator and membet of the executive committee of the National Socialist Party which numbers in its ranks her illustrious countryman, Eduard Benes, Czechoslovakia's Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Besides being the President of the Czechoslovak Women's Council, she is a member of the executive committees of the following organizations: International Women's Council, the Alliance for Citizenship and Equal Rights for Women, Open Door, and the Association of Business and Professional Women. She is, moreover, the Convener of the Standing Committee on Suffrage in the International Women's Council and chairman of the Committee of Enfranchised Countries in the Alliance. Is it any wonder then that I, an American citizen of Czech birth, should be attracted by so winsome and internationally minded a worker?
NOR is this the only reason why I associated myself with the Czechoslovak Women's Council. I am in hearty sympathy with its program. I firmly believe in the efficacy of women's organizations. There are plenty of sore spots in the fabric of our modern civilization that need mending by a woman's hand. Women can well contribute to education for world peace and the creation of a desirable public opinion for disarmament and more peaceful methods of settling international disputes and differences. Through the Disarmament Committee of the Women's International Organizations, much has already been done in this direction. Women can best protect children from the dangers of parental unemployment and child labor; they can best tell what is needed in their educational program. They are best fitted for improving their own working conditions, prisons, reformatory houses and penitentiary institutions for women. They can do much in raising the moral standard of youth. By nature and calling they are best adapted to improve social conditions and render help wherever it is needed. Only through organized effort will women gain equal naturalization rights with men.
MY observations have led me to conclude that womens' organizations are badly needed in Czechoslovakia to reeducate women for their new role in a democratic state. It appears to me that the relationship between men and women in 234
Czechoslovakia is not a particularly healthy one. A woman is not always treated as a man's equal. She is still kept in a harmfully subordinated and servile position in spite of the fact that constitutionally she is granted equal suffrage rights with men and that many of her country's public men are most outspoken in their high esteem of women and their equal rights. President Masaryk deplores the still prevalent condition and asks: "Why should the mother who bore the children not be equal to the father who begot them? And if a man really loves, how can he love some one beneath him? I see no difference in the intelligence of men and women." * * * Karel Capek: President Masaryk Tells His Own Story, p. 134.
I CANNOT help feel that Czech women are partly to blame for this condition. I shall never forget what took place when my son was born in Prague. Both the attending physician as well as the nurses exclaimed with a triumphant air: "A boy!" They could not understand my disappointment in not getting a longed-for daughter. Letters of congratulations from my Czech friends declared, to my surprise, that I was favored by the gods in the birth of a son. As time went on I discovered that the birth of a boy was always an occasion for greater rejoicing. It signified, in short, no worry over a future dowry. It also meant the birth of a superior creature with greater opportunities in life. From the moment, His Majesty, the Boy-Baby, makes his appearance on Czechoslovak territory, he is administered to by mother, sister, grandmother, auntie and any other female about, and later by his wife in the most servile manner to the end of his days. How any boy so brought up can possibly respect his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mother and other women and treat them as comrades in this great enterprise we call life is beyond my humble understanding. Of course, His Majesty pays the price for this wrong attitude in more than one way, but unfortunately, he does not know it. The woman remains equally ignorant of the harm she has done. This erroneous upbringing crops up most unexpectedly in a boy's life. President Gaeth tells with relish peculiar stories of his YMCA camp experiences with Czechoslovak boys. A typical American summer camp program was followed by the YMCA authorities much to the dislike of the mothers. The latter frequently visited the camp to complain about the type of menial work given their sons. One mother, for instance, was very much put out because her boy was made to peel potatoes; another because her son was made to clean his cabin. If peeling potatoes and cleaning cabins are degrading tasks for boys, then it follows naturally that women, who usually perform these tasks, are inferior beings. One also understands why so many young women shun these tasks for more masculine occupations even if these consist of mere routine office work. A boy must be brought up to esteem and appreciate these mundane home activities. Only then will women enjoy doing them and cease to be inferior for performing them.
REEDUCATION is greatly needed here and only through womens' organizations will it be effected. There is no earthly reason why Czech women or any other women, for that matter, should be kept in a servile position. It is all a matter of correct attitudes. Every woman has a birthright to her inner freedom. She can be educated in using her free will but she should THE CZECHOSLOVAK never be forced. In Czechoslovakia, just as in many other countries today, women are being denied the right to work as an economy measure. What are these young women to do when work is denied them? There are not enough men to marry them all in the first place. A goodly number of men do not make enough to support a wife and family. Many of those who can, shirk the responsibilities of the married state. Is it just to penalize the women for all these conditions? Married women, in particular, are being discriminated against. A great majority of these women in Europe work because they have to. Their wages are needed to make possible a decent standard of living for the family. If discrimination against women is carried on because there are not enough jobs to go round, that men have families to support, why not also limit the employment of those who because of accumulated wealth have no need of gainful employment? The Czechoslovak Women's Council is bending all its energies against such discrimination, considering it to be the old exploitation of the weak by the strong. There is no question about the need for increased protection of womens' rights in Europe today. When I see the plight of the European woman I cannot refrain from joining her organized ranks and doing my bit to help better her position.
THERE was still another reason why I joined the Women's Council in Czechoslovakia. I was anxious to keep our Relief Society sisters in the Czechoslovak Mission informed of all activities undertaken by their countrywomen as well as by women throughout the world, thereby making their organization serve as a window through which they not only viewed the activities of the women of the Church but of the world. This is done by making a monthly study of the Czech Bulletin, the official organ of the Czechoslovak Women's Council. A resume is prepared by one of the members and circulated to all the Relief Societies in the Mission. Questions for discussion are usually added by myself for the purpose of comparing and contrasting the women's aims with Latter-day Saint aims. They are usually in harmony, but the methods used to attain them are not always to our liking. This study is taken up during the work and business meeting. I also subscribe for the English Bulletin, the organ of the International Women's Council and add to the Czech resume any item of interest of vital importance. The discussions which these questions have motivated have proved most stimulating and have been instrumental in pointing out our Latter-day Saint ideals for womanhood in bolder relief. The sisters and friends greatly enjoy this service which relays to them the important activities of women throughout the world. There are at present three Relief Society organizations in the Czechoslovakian Mission with a total of sixty members. Their contact with the Women's Council is made possible through my direct, personal membership. As a direct member of the Council, I work with the Standing Committees on Education and Relations with Foreign Countries. My American teaching experience stands me well in the former and my knowledge of English makes me a most useful member in the latter. So far I have thoroughly enjoyed my associations with the leaders of the Czech women. I have come to understand them better and their aims as well. I enjoyed the privilege of attending the quinquennial meeting of the International Women's Council in Paris in July as a Czechoslovak delegate. As such it behooved me to prepare the English reports for the Immigration and Education Committees of the International Council. My American citizenship makes me ineligible for office in the Czechoslovak Women's Council but it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE leaves me eligible for work and there is plenty of that! Down deep in my heart is a dormant desire to have the Czechoslovak Relief Society officially affiliated with the Czechoslovak Women's Council at some future time, thereby better enabling it to make its contribution of beautiful Latter-day Saint ideals to the womanhood of Czechoslovakia.
Guides in Buying Textiles By Vilate Elliott (Director of Clothing and Textiles Brigham Young University)
THIS paper is not so much to inform you on consumer's education as it is to awaken in your minds the needs of the consumer in identifying the goods she is about to purchase, to make each of us conscious as to what we as consumers may do in aiding standardization: to make us feel the necessity of demanding more forcibly the establishment and maintenance of grades and standards for the materials we purchase: that these grades and standards be attached in plain labels to the goods for the use of the consumer in selection.
Heretofore much help has been given the producer, but his technique of production has confused rather than helped the consumer to distinguish differences in makes of goods.
Commercial buyers are trained specifically for the particular task of buying, while the household buyer lacks this specialized knowledge. She does not have access to the objective tests now employed by commercial buyers. For example when our government buys cloth for the army and navy it has a staff whose duty it is to test the material for fiber, weave, count of threads per inch in warp and filling, color fast to water and sun, the exact amount of remanufactured fiber used.
Tests for its strength, whether it is preshrunk and various other tests not available to the private consumer.
Dresses and Materials. Up to date the consumer depends on what little knowledge she has of textiles and the saleswoman who frequently is no better informed than the consumer. The saleswoman may be perfectly honest when she tells you she thinks that dress is all silk and that the silk is not weighted. The consumer likes the dress, it is the style and color she wants, it fits her and the price is right so she takes a chance on its wearing qualities, there is very little to guide either her or the saleswoman.
There are some of the better grade stores that are beginning to have labels on their dresses and are willing to stand behind the goods they sell, their prices seem higher, but the amount you are likely to lose through bad buys at stores who do not stand behind a reasonable amount of wear in the goods they sell will make up the difference. If there is a label on your dress, read it carefully, read all the fine print, it may be directions for washing and pressing, GUIDES IN BUYING TEXTILES or it may have some facts about the quality of the material. Ask your saleswoman intelligent questions about fabrics and insist on definite answers. In the better stores clerks and buyers appreciate quality-minded customers and are anxious to explain good features of dress materials.
Stores interested in volume sales rather than quality business, sometimes try to evade questions that customers ask. As this is often only a defense for their ignorance, you will be wise not to buy unless you can get the information to which you are entitled.
Still another help in judging dresses is training yourself to know by the feel and the appearance of the material whether the quality is good or poor, I know this is difficult as the methods of deceiving are many and devious, and the purchaser finds it difficult to pick out the ones best suited to her needs, for whether a dress is good or bad depends upon its quality and whether it is suited to your needs.
Good quality is easier to recognize in cottons than in most fabrics but even so you must choose with care, whether you are buying a service weight or a sheer-cotton. For dress wear, you will want a well woven material so that it will keep its shape and stand up under repeated laundering.
Other points on cotton are—Is it heavily sized to make it look firm and closely woven. Rub the material between your hands, notice if little white particles of dust come to the surface, notice how the weave is affected.
Heavily sized materials have no body and will not stand up after washing. Are they pre-shrunk, some cottons are stretched so excessively in the manufacture that they shrink even after several washings, but those with labels marked preshrunk are more apt to be satisfactory than those which have not been 237 subject to a shrinking process.
Another important factor is fastness to color both for washing and sunfast.
Colors have been perfected so much that the best fabrics are color fast. The weave is also important, a standard weave with the threads in the warp and filling very nearly the same count.
Novelties are generally higher in price regardless of quality, they often require special machinery, which must be discarded when the fad is passed, this adds to the cost to the consumer; then, sometimes to produce something new and unusual the construction of yarn and the proper balance of weave is sacrificed.
Choose the fabric for the qualities that give service rather than fashion alone.
Good quality silk dresses are made of "pure dye" silks. By pure dye I mean a fiber that contains no more than 10% of any fiber or substance or weighting other than silk, black silk may contain 15% and still be labeled as a "pure dye." All fabrics containing more than the above-stated percentages of substances and fibers other than silk should be labeled either as "weighted silks" or as a mixture, whatever it may be.
This practice is intended to protect both the manufacturer of quality silk and the consumer against cheap silks that compete unfairly with those honestly represented. "Metallic-weighted silks are often difficult to distinguish from pure dyes unless you can test samples, but make observations, read labels and ask questions.
Usually heavily weighted silks are priced low in comparison with pure dyes and that is only right, because their value is less.
Compare the feel and appearance of two pieces of the same type of fabric. For example weighted flat crepes have more sheen, are heavier to lift and more slippery than pure dyes; 238 satins are hardly as pliable and sheers feel more wiry and harsh when gathered up in your hand.
Weighted silks cut along stitching lines and rub into shreds wherever there is friction—as under the arms, on the hips and across the shoulders.
They split when simply hanging in a closet.
Weighted silks are more troublesome to care for than pure dyes.
Wrinkles can hardly be pressed out of them without steam, and the colors are seldom dependable. As you wear weighted silks they feel clammy next to the skin and are uncomfortable in hot weather.
Weave is another point to examine when buying a silk dress. You want a weave that is firm and not likely to shift and cause ugly pulling at seams under the arms and at the hips.
Shrinking and stretching are two more points to ask about when buying a silk dress.
Very crinkly crepes often stretch; those made from tightly twisted yarn draw up.
Dresses made of a fabric with a close, regular weave are much more likely to hold their shape. One other point, inasmuch as pure dyes is applied to rayons as well as silk, see that pure dyed silk is marked on the label. If you do not know whether the dress is silk or rayon, ask your clerk, if she does not know ask the buyer, you are entitled to the information. But this information is sometimes difficult to obtain, the following is an example: "A study of fifty ready-made silk dresses ranging in price from $2.98 to $59.50 carried out at New York University and Pennsylvania State College is interesting from the standpoint of difficulty of obtaining accurate information from salespeople. Forty-seven of the fifty clerks selling the dresses misrepresented to the purchaser the amount of weighting present in the fabrics. In some cases even the store buyer was consulted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and failed to give the correct information. Twenty-three of the clerks stated positively that the fabrics contained no weighting, while the remainder said that they had but very small amounts, if any.
Under analysis, however, it was found that the silk of only three of the dresses contained no mineral weighting. Of the remaining 47 dresses, one was found to contain 100% rayon while all but two of the others consisted of approximately one-half or more of tin-phosphate weighting." (From Coles "Standardization of Consumers' Goods.") "Honest, definite information is the best guide to both wise purchasing and wise selling."
Points To Look For When Buying A Dress
1. Style and fabrics suited to your needs.
2. A label that tells what kind of fibers make up the material.
3. Definite information about shrinkage, weighting, or sizing, and color fastness to sunlight and washing.
4. Fabrics made of durable yarns with firm, balanced weave.
5. Stapled fabrics rather than novelties, for economy.
6. All pieces cut the right way of the goods.
7. Full cut with plenty of room.
8. Neat, appropriate, and serviceable workmanship.
9. Allowances for alterations, particularly in growing girls dresses.
When your table linen is marked household linen or domestic linen or any one of the terms used other than pure linen it is not linen, the only label which means anything on linen is marked pure linen, then again it may be spun flax which is made out of the combings of the flax, such linen will eventually wear up rough with small ends and rough places showing on the surface. It is pure GUIDES IN BUYING TEXTILES linen but it will not wear or have the gloss and sheen of a linen made from the long flax threads known as line. Many times our rayons are marked on the selvage celanese, or bemberg, or tubize. If you know these names it will help you to know how to treat it; water has no effect on celanese but it weakens every other rayon; celanese must be pressed with a warm iron only while a hotter iron does not seem to affect other rayons. When we look at a blanket which seems fluffy and wooly, we feel it must belong to the sheep family but having been deceived before we are suspicious, we wonder how much cotton blood runs in its veins masquerading as all wool and a yard wide, we have no way of telling because its percent is not labeled. So often the producer by his trade names confuses the consumer instead of helping him. "Trade names may be misleading. 'Nu-grape' is not made from grapes. 'Belgen' sheets are not made in Belgium or of linen. Of 100 textiles trade terms submitted to 600 women buyers in all parts of the country, 38 were found to be misleading, 23 confusing, and 5 'more or less' misleading. Philippine mahogany is not genuine mahogany. Hudson seal is made from muskrat skins. Silk may be weighted two or three times its original weight with metallic substances. 'Part wool' blankets may contain an almost infinitesimal amount of wool." (Taken from Standardization of Consumers' Goods, by Coles.) If the consumer can identify the characteristics of the material she is about to buy it will help some, but often deliberate statements are made to deceive the public. Probably one of the most common deceptions is in fur, we are told that rabbit fur masquerades under at least seventy different names, it may be made to resemble seal, otter, or beaver, or any other of the numerous names. Its price is placed to fit the fur it represents, there is nothing to help the buyer, he must be guided by his experience or his knowledge, if he has any, of furs. Usually the furrier has masqueraded the rabbit so completely that previous experience, inspection or knowledge will be of little avail. (To be continued)
A Wish By D. S. H.
Soon the spring will come again With leaves unfolding on the trees, With flowers blooming everywhere And in the air the warm spring breeze. (How can I bear to welcome it— Enjoy its beauty and its cheer— When my brave lad who loved it too Has gone away and left me here?) Soon the spring will come again With lovers walking down the lane, Thrilled with the endless dreams of youth, Repeating still, the old refrain: (Help me, dear Lord, to understand— Cleanse me from bitterness and woe; Remembering that Thou leadest me Smiling and hopeful let me go.)