THOUGHTS. 

	Having been asked “Does the Woman’s
ballot purify politics?” in responding my
inclination would be to say “Yes, conditions
being fair,” but the experience I have had
proves it will take years to accomplish what
the best women desire. However, the de-
cidedly moral and spiritual element with
which woman is naturally endowed must
produce a salutary effect in the realm of
politics.
	If we go back to history we find no na-
tion was ever wrecked so long as women
wielded a powerful influence. Woman is
to be redeemed from the curse, and that is
the true interpretation of the phrase “The
nineteenth century is woman’s era”—the
work has begun and is fast going forward.
One of the most potent forces in this revo-
lution of things is the ballot. Women have
not usurped this honor—behind them is
the sentiment and the accumulation of
force, if we may be permitted the use of the
term, that the age has brought with it
which comes from a source unknown to any
except the wise, who see as poets and proph-
ets do, things that are not perceptible to the
natural eye, and hear voices that are not
heard by the multitude. The plan of re-
demption is as real and as true as was the
creation.
	Woman is one of the strongest forces in
the spiritual world of thought and of action.
Who does not know that when awakened
by trials accidents of fortune or misfortune
woman turns to God, and seeks strength
from the heavenly fountain of inspiration
through prayer and devotion, and necessa
rily by the sincerity of her purpose in all she
undertakes for the betterment of humanity
her very purity of motive and exalted views
bring about an uplifting wherever her in-
fluence spreads. It is the soul-type in wo-
man, that sacrifice of self, that obedience to
the Savior’s golden rule, “Do to others as
ye would they should do to you,” that is
ever helpful. It is that element which made
her last at the cross and first at the sepul-
chre.
	When the franchise has been extended
over more space, and embraces more people
and peoples, or more nations, then we may
be able to see what a powerful factor for the
amelioration and purification of society it
will become; and, therefore, in conclusion
let me exhort every woman in the states
that have equal suffrage, not to grow indif-
ferent to the power she has in her own pos-
session, the ballot; and because two years
or more have not worked a miracle toss
aside the weapon of defense and of author-
ity given her; but with an effort worthy the
most profound patriotism use her utmost
endeavors to induce Congress through its
legislation to carry the sixteenth amend-
ment, which has been so long pending be-
fore that Honorable Body.
	There is no other vitalizing force that can
permeate every home and appeal to every
individual citizen as the ballot can, there-
fore it must be the mightiest lever to uplift
and to regenerate the world.


