[Column 2]
the Lord rest upon all who may speak.”
	Sister Shipp then addressed the meeting.
She said, “I desire an interest in your faith
and prayers, for I desire to talk more especi-
ally to the young ladies and encourage them
to attend these meetings, for they are a
blessing to all of us.” Spoke of love and
charity, said we should all try and cultivate
these qualities. The mothers have a great
influence over their children. A woman’s
geatest mission is to instruct her children
in the proper way. We should all try to
control our children with a spirit of love.
Spoke of our Savior and the spirit of for-
giveness. Said, “Let us try to follow His
example, seek to know and do our duty at
all times and be prepared for eternal life.”
	Patriarch Judson Tolman said, “I will
tell you, my sisters, you are numbered
among those who are reserved to redeem
the world. We can all see the great neces-
sity of doing right and living our religion.
I tell you not only the young men but the
young women will be called upon to go on
missions. I bless you, my sisters, and
your children.”
	Sister Emily Parish said, “I realize so
much is required of us, but we should ask
the Lord what is most necessary to be done.”
Sister Caddie Parish said, “Where much
is given much is required, and none of us
lack for opportunities of improvement. I
trust we will all follow the good examples
of our parents.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant said, “I am
satisfied the spirit of the Lord is with us to-
day. The only desire I have is that I may
have a portion of it while I attempt to
speak. We should teach our children to
love and respect the authorities. Parents
should be very careful in speaking before
their children. I feel to say God bless this
and all other societies.”
	Sister Mary Clark said, “It is our duty to
ask the Lord for His blessing and what we
most need. I have been to the Lord for com-
fort and have been comforted. I feel to
bear my testimony to the Gospel.”
	Sister Stevenson said, “When our Patri-
archs speak of the degradation it makes me
feel like putting my shoulder to the wheel
and helping to regenerate the world. It is
the privilege and duty of the young ladies to
join these societies and prepare themselves
for eternal life.”
	President Susan Grant said, “I do not
think there is one in the house who has not
been greatly edified.” Spoke of the sis-
ters’ meeting on the 17th of March. “I
feel to ask the blessing of the Lord upon
all, I think we have had a day of rejocing.”
	Conference adjourned for three months to
be held at Centerville. Singing, “Guide
us O, Thou Great Jehovah.” Benediction
by Lewis Grant.
		SUSAN GRANT, Pres.
