[Column 1]
Sisters Cynthia E. Packard and Sylvia
Griffin, counselors; Sister Alice Neves Dob-
son, secretary, and Sister Margaret A. Prea-
tor treasurer.
	We have but few members as our ward
is small, but all are interested and are ener-
getic workers so far as they are able. As
we are rather scattered on our farms, there
being no towns, some of the sisters living
farthest away having three miles to come,
our meetings are not held as often nor are
they as well attended as we would wish, and
it is a difficult matter for our teachers to
visit every month. As we hold our meet-
ings monthly we have very good meetings
when we do meet, and are always blest
with a goodly portion of the spirit of God.
The sisters are full of love and charity to-
ward each other, and try to follow the ex-
ample set them by their worthy president.
	Trusting these few lines will find room
in your excellent paper, I remain,
Your sister in the Gospel,
SYLVIA GRIFFIN.
ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	A special conference of the Relief Society
of the St. John's Stake of Zion was held at
St. Johns, Arizona, Feb. 20, 1899. On
the stand were Dr. Karl G. Maeser, Elder
L. John Nuttall, President E. L. S. Udall,
her first counselor and some leading breth-
ren and sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Udall in her remarks said: "This is
not the usual time for holding our confer-
ence, but on account of Brother Nuttall
being here in the interest of the society we
have this privilege." Said she had visited
each society in the Stake since our last con-
ference.
	Elder L. John Nuttall said he had the
special mission of looking after the Relief
Society, given him while our beloved Presi-
dent Woodruff was living. "The property
rights of the society here are not in the
safe condition they are in and near Utah.
***The instructions I give you to day
will only be preparatory for the time when
I shall be permitted to visit you in your re-
spective wards, as the time now is too
limited. I have found in my travels that
the sisters do not understand the object of
the organization fully. The Prophet Joseph
on the first day of its organization said, 'It
is to provoke your husbands to good works,
to correct morals and strengthen virtue.'
My sisters do you realize there is anything
for you to do in this organization to cor-
rect these evil conditions? Now is the time
to put down iniquity, correct the morals
and strengthen the virtues of the children.
You can qualify yourselves to expound the
scriptures by giving lectures, reading, etc.
Take certain passages of scripture and
speak upon them. We are living in an ad-
vanced age and must keep up with the
times. Take care of your wheat, store it
up for a time of famine and pestilence, so
when this time comes, as it will come, the
grain you have stored away will increase
with you and the power of the adversary
will fail in this direction."
	Dr. Karl G. Maeser said, "I rise only to
bear testimony to the beautiful instructions
given by Brother Nuttall. If you will
abide by these instructions and put them
into practice you will indeed be saviors up-
on Mount Zion."
	President William Gibbons said we
should carry the instructions given here
this morning to our homes in the several
wards, that all the people might have the
benefit of them.

