[Column 1]
a helping hand to advance this great forward
movement.
	The International Council, which takes
in all National Councils in all the countries
of the world is to hold its quinquennial ses-
sion next June in London. There the lead-
ing representatives of the National Council
will assemble to read papers, discuss subjects
and formulate plans for the general welfare of
women among all nations upon the globe.
Many crowned heads of kingdoms and em-
pires are becoming interested in, this Council
of nations, and will send representatives
duly commissioned as fraternal delegates,
where National Councils have not yet been
affiliated. To enlarge upon the facts here
set forth one might multiply pages illimitable,
but if women are alive to the awakening of
the times mentally and spiritually, they will
seek information and inspiration upon this
great upheaval of the higher activities of the
age. 
	The meetings of the Council this winter
and the business transacted have been of ex-
ceptional interest to the writer and for lack
of space even now we can only present the
following:
THE RESOLUTIONS REPORTED.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
cannot afford to lose from its Executive
Board a woman who has had the experience
of directing its policy as President; there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That a President of the Nation-
al Council, upon retiring from her office,
shall be made Honorary President of the
Council, with all powers and privileges, in-
cluding that of a vote upon the executive
committee; further be it
	Resolved, Should this resolution com-
mend itself to the judgment of the execu-
tive committee, that the names of Mary
Lowe Dickinson and May Wright Sewall,
The two living Presidents of the Council,
be immediately placed upon the official
staff, and that the constitution be so amended
as to include past Presidents as Honorary
Presidents within its limits; be it also
	Resolved, That no one except the Presi-
dent of the Council shall have either the
title or the privilege of an Honorary Presi-
dent.
	Resolved, We believe the state should
give to all children in schools under its con-
trol industrial and physical as well as
mental education.
	Resolved, That the National Council of
Women requests the government of the
United States how it may most largely
avail itself of the services of women in the
regulation of such matters pertaining to the
army and navy as the proper preparation of
food, sanitation, nursing, medical attendance,
etc. 
	Believing that the two strongest unifying
forces off organized effort are human brother-
hood and Divine Fatherhood, and rejoicing
in the expression of humanitarian princi-
ples in the manifold activities of American
women, represented by the National Coun-
cil of Women; therefore,
	Resolved, That this universal faith in the
Divine Fatherhood should be expressed by
either vocal or silent prayer at the opening
of all sessions of the Council.
	Resolved, That we protest against the
canteen system in our army and navy.
	Resolved, That we deprecate war, and
are in hearty sympathy with the purpose of
the conference called by the Czar of Russia

