NOTES AND NEWS.

	The action taken at the recent Congress
of the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion looking to an amalgamation of that
society with the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion, was entirely voluntary upon the part
of the D. A. R., and not with the sanction
or at the request of the Daughters of the
Revolution. There is no probability of a
“surrender” by the D. R. society to the D.
A. R’s.
	The General Society Daughters of the
Revolution constitutes all “original daugh-
ters,” women whose fathers served in the
War of the Revolution, honorary members
of the society, and presents them with a
handsomely engraved parchment certificate
of membership and a gold badge. Authen-
tic information of such daughters will be
gladly received at the headquarters of the
society, 156 Fifth Ave., New York City.
	The District of Columbia W. S. Associa-
tion, on motion of Dr. McNaughton, passed
unanimously a resolution of approval of
the disarmament conference called by the
Czar of Russia to meet in St. Petersburg in
May next, and asking the President of the
United States to appoint Mrs. Belva A.
Lockwood a delegate. Without any con-
cert of action a similar resolution was passed
by the Woman’s Industrial Relief League,
putting it upon the ground that the time
had arrived when the administration should
do something for women, and that Mrs.
Lockwood was by previous service pre-
eminently fit for the position.
	A lifelong suffragist has just been tender-
ly conducted through the portals of death
into the home of the soul, at the ripe age of
ninety three. Mrs. Sophronia Snow leaves
her impress on the age in the influence of
her daughters, two of whom live in Wash-
ington and two at the old home in Hamden
Corners, Maine. One of the latter is Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford, who was for so many
years intimately connected with the work
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associ-
ation. It was with her that Mrs. Snow
passed her later years, and at this home not
long ago, she enjoyed visiting with Miss
Anthony, who was a guest there during
the suffrage convention at that place.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne has introduced
an important educational bill in the Legis-
lature, providing for an increase of one
hundred per cent in the Normal scholar-
ship of the University. Its leading features
are as follows: The Normal school shall
be continued as a department of the Uni-
versity, for students of both sexes, and its
course of instruction shall include practice
in teaching and in pedagogy, may extend
through a period of four years, or until
graduation. Two hundred free scholars
may be maintained in the Normal school.
The holders of them shall be exempt from
the payment of all matriculation fees. Fifty
appointments to these scholarships, each for
a term of four years, may be made annually.
The bill was passed.


