[Column 2]
so enthusiastic are they about his coming.
Dear old Santa Claus! What gladness he
brings to many thousands of homes, and
alas for those bereft of children or where
none ever came to bless and kindle new
life in human hearts. But the children,
Santa Claus belongs especially to them,
they watch for him carefully, continuously,
getting up at unseasonable hours to try and
surprise him and to see which way he
comes; whether over the roof with his rein-
deers and sled and down the chimney, or
through the window, or stealing in softly
when the door is open and hiding until all
are asleep in the house to make his raid as
the Brownies do. What fantastic visions
the little folks conjure up of the visits of
Santa Claus. Christmas is the day of all
days for the little folks, no other day in the
year is so attractive, not even the 4th of
July with its flags, banners, music, parades
and booming of cannon; nor yet the child’s
own birthday when he is “cock of the
walk,” so to speak. Is it because of the
delusion of Santa Claus that fires the child’s
imagination? partly so it must be. And
those of older growth, they, too, are fasci-
nated with delusions and fancies. And it
this only happened one day in the year one
might be more excusable.
	This is the day of love in every house-
hold, of peace on earth and good will to all
mankind, and every one who feels the im-
portance of the sweet charity the Savior
taught and practised should himself exer-
cise that sweet spirit of sublime and heaven-
ly grace which reflects as much upon the
giver as the receiver. The scripture says
“It is more blessed to give than to receive,”
and it is a divine truth,as many can testify.
	To know how to give acceptably is an
art in itself and one which many people do
not understand; to give ostentatiously is al-
ways an offense, even though the giver
may have the best of motives. It is true
that Christmas opens a wide door for gifts
to loved ones as well as for charity, but
nevertheless, careless giving especially of
charity, sometimes makes the recipient feel
he would rather starve. We are all, or al-
most all, too neglectful of the little courte-
sies and proprieties of life; we excuse our-
selves because there is so much to be done,
and we say this is an age of hurry and bus-
tle. But when one looks around and finds
those who do things of this sort beautifully,
in such a way that there is no possible
chance of criticism, then we wonder what is
the reason that others could not do as well.
A gift is not so much in itself as in the
manner of giving.
	Children should be taught to give in the
spirit of love and sweetness, and then there
would be greater pleasure and more satis-
faction in small things. As a people we
have grown so selfish ourselves with the
prosperity the Lord has blessed us with,
that we feel unless we can give largely we
must not give at all. Yet when we look
back and recall the early days in this valley
and the few little comforts we had for the
children at Christmas time and compare it
with the present, its loads of toys and beau-
tiful as well as useful things it seems in-
credible. And are we happier or better, or
are the children any more satisfied ? We
think not. The molasses candy, ginger
bread and dough-nuts Santa Claus brought
then were as acceptable as the best sweet-
meats and Hiler’s candy and wax dolls that
can open and shut their eyes instead of the
rag babies made by their own mamma’s


deft fingers, into which she put so many
loving stitches.
	Yes we have a different Christmas now,
and this year we have much to be thankful
for and to rejoice over. Many little ones
whose father went to battle have him home
with them for the jolly Christmas. And
some whose homes are not so blest, yet
know the war is over and look forward to
the home coming with joyful anticipation.
	There has been a bountiful harvest, the
Lord has blest His people wonderfully and
the children should be made to realize this,
and to comprehend how the Lord has pro-
vided for the needs of His people and given
them an abundance and to spare, so that
on this Christmas day in all the valleys of
this Western land, there should be no
scarcity in any home and certainly not
where there are those, blessed messengers of
relief, Bishops and sisters of the Relief
Society. The dear, old people who are so
much alone in the world, more even than
the children should be richly remembered
at Christmas. They are as fond of dainties
as the children, though they cannot keep
up the delusion of Santa Claus, and if the
children were taught to divide with the
aged people of their own locality, those who
have no grandchildren of their own to come
and bring them delicacies, it would be a
greater blessing to the children than to
those to whom they minister in innocence
and love. So let us learn the Christ lesson.
If we only give to those who can give to us
in return, we are not the true followers of
the lowly Nazarene whose birth we cele-
brate, (even though we have long since
learned that it was not the day of his birth.)
Christmas has so long been kept on this
particular day that a change all over the
world could scarcely be effected.
	This year, 1898, Christmas comes on the
Sabbath day and therefore festivities will
be observed upon Saturday or Monday, or
both as the case may be, but the children
will probably receive fruitful lessons at the
Christmas Sunday School.
	Already the city has put on its holiday
appearance, and never was there more dis-
play. Stores, shops and business houses of
all kinds are in gala dress, and the brighter,
gayer colors that have been the rage the
last year or more add to the brilliancy of
the decorations. In the midst of all this
display perhaps there is as much delusion
as attaches to Santa Claus. The home and
the fireside is always connected with Christ-
mas so closely that one invariably thinks of
the yule log, or the huge pine knots and
the joys of social or even jovial family inter-
course. “The holly round the Christmas
hearth” has become proverbial, and

	‘‘At Christmas time the open hand,
	Scatters bounty o’er sea and land.”

	It is good that we have the holidays,
what would life be without these seasons of
renewal? It makes us almost young again
to participate in such rejoicings.


