[Column 2]
were surrounded by some who were not of
our faith; had the privilege of converting
some. Advised mothers to. take the Juve-
nile and good literature, and exhorted them
to be humble and God fearing.
	Sister Barnes gave some good, motherly
advice. Sister Julia C. Howe said we met
to be strengthened by the spirit of God, we
were surrourided bymany temptations,
especially the young people, and it is neces-
sary to put safe guards around them. She
often wondered what she would do without
the Relief Society, thought it so necessary
that our young people should attend their
meetings, and also to interest the young
ladies in the Relief Society. Spoke of the
great responsibilities of mothers in rearing
their children.
	Sister Liddle realized that her greatest
trial had proved to be her greatest blessing.
Exhorted all to be patient and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things. He is
angry with none except those who will not
acknowledge his hand in all things.
	Sister Rawlings bore a faithful testimony.
Congregation sang “All is well.”
	Sister L. D. Alder advised mothers to
pray and have prayers with their children.
Prayer is the corner stone, nothing will
make us happier than visiting our mar-
ried childrens’ homes and seeing them meet
around the family altar night and morning.
Said we must be careful and not do any-
thing that brings trial upon the missionaries
as anything and everything that is done in
Utah is exaggerated and misrepresented in
the papers and carried to different parts of
the earth.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown testified to the
power of prayer, made other good remarks.
	Sister Paul said words could not express
the gratitude of her heart for theGospel, she
was happy in her religion. Asked the sis-
ters to pray for their enemies and they
would not have power to do any harm.
	The congregation sang “Awake ye
defenders of Zion.” Other sisters bore
testimony and Sister Jane James said she
prayed for her enemies, for she knew they
must suffer.
	Sister Butterworth crossed the plains and
helped to drive cattle, but was happy
through it all, as she knew she was com-
ing to Zion. Sister Pond said she wanted
fo bear, a testimony of tithing. When her
husband was on a mission she paid her
tithing and the Lord had greatly blessed
her. Spoke of the inspiration of a Relief
Society president in Logan in regard to
Temple work.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson spoke of
the experiences of the Saints, how it was
necessary we should have these ex-
periences. Told the Saints they must not
grieve too much over sorrows, it was not
pleasing to the Lord. Said these meetings
were organized for retrenchment, and let us
retrench in everything. When we have
sickness let us not call for doctors, but ask
the Lord to help us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology, Benediction Annie T. Hyde.
