A WONDERFUL AGE.

	Truly this age is significant of a higher
order of things, a larger outlook soon to
manifest itself in the development of the
human race. Assuredly in all that relates
to progress and to culture even in aesthet-
ics the human family is not going back-
ward, but forward. Organization has had
much to do with this onward movement.
	To be sure war has not ceased altogether,
but efforts made and plans proposed for a
Peace Congress for all the powerful nations,
foretells vividly what we who are living to-
day may anticipate as near at hand. One
even now looks forward to the unexpected,
and might almost add the impossible; for
really what would have been claimed
as utterly impossible fifty years ago has
come to pass, and is almost classed as some-
thing of an i[-]cident instead of, as our fore-
fathers would have thought it, a positive
miracle or unwarrantable in fact.
	Not only the rapid advancement made in
the world of affairs, great and small, and
the common workaday world itself, but the
unprecedented growth of ideas; not neces-
sarily from the learned in the arts and
sciences, or direct lines of knowledge, but
a kind of spontaneous outcome as it were
from some fount of intelligence which had
been reposing through the ages and culmin-
ated at last in the nineteenth century, crys-
talizing certain truths for the uplifting of
mankind. The Lord of heaven and
earth has the over-ruling power, notwith-
standing the wisdom of the world and the
impracticability of many of the theories of
men, and He will care for His own, and
those that seek after the bread of life will
be entitled to the promises made to the
faithful.
	Women have in this present generation
taken hold of some of the problems of the
day and wrestled with them with the in-
tuitive spiritual strength that seems to be a
part of the feminine nature. Men in high
places who have hitherto been tenacious of
rights and of power are beginning to feel,
and in some measure to acknowledge the
superiority of woman’s judgment in many
important matters, and to appreciate her
help as a force working for good in nearly
all the varied lines of progress.
	It is a self-evident truth that women
stand on a higher plane morally and spirit-
ually than men, and why, then, may they
not mingle in governmental affairs, since
society and the true life of the individual
and the nation depends so much upon good,

