EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A new book called “The Primary Help-
er” has been completed under the direction
of the General Board of the Primary Associ-
ation, and is now for sale. It is intended
for the use of the children in their exercises
in the association, and for a help when get-
ting up entertainments. It contains both
prose and poetry, most of the articles are
original and written especially for the chil-
dren of Zion. Great care has been taken
to have nothing objectionable contained in
any of the pieces, and the associations and
Latter-day Saints generally should procure
copies for the use of the children and those
who labor among and with them. The
book is published by George Q. Cannon
& Sons Co., price per copy, 15c[-]s.
	A book on Bookkeeping by John W.
Whinyates of this city has been handed to
us, and we take pleasure in giving it a brief
notice in our columns, as it seems to rec-
ommend itself to the student as being clear
in method and easy in comprehension of
the subject dealt with. It contains speci-
mens of the books used in single and double
entry. In this age of hurry any practical
theory that will facilitate work, is certainly
a blessing, and it seems this little book
will be very helpful to those who transact
business, much, or little, as the case may be.
Women who are puzzled in keeping their
accounts and who cannot afford to take les-
sons will be able to learn all that is requi-
site without a teacher, from this small book
of 62 pages, price $1.00
	We have received from the Deseret Sun-
day School Union the pamphlet of the
“Proceedings of the First Sunday School
Convention, of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints,” containing the en-
tire report as taken in short hand. It is
exceedingly interesting and will be a great
benefit to the organization, both for
the present and the future, and the address
of President George Q. Cannon, General
Superintendent, and of First Ass’t. Super-
intendent Elder George Goddard, will be
priceless in value to the Sunday School
Union, as also those of other speakers. The
convention was in every sense of the word
a perfect success, The teaching contained
in the book will be invaluable to teachers,
and in the form it is issued convenient for
reference. Price, 10cts., published by the
Deseret Sunday School Union, 408, and 409
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.


