MY WARNING.

Many a lesson our children teach us, 
	Did we con their quaint sayings through,
Many a loving reproof they give us—
	Doing ever the thing we do—
Showing how watchful we mothers should be,
What noble examples of purity.

’Twas in early spring many years agone,
	How well I remember the day,
The birds, just returning from warmer climes,
	Caroled forth such a joyous lay,  
All nature aroused from her winter’s sleep,
Rejoiced while I reveled in fancies dee[-].

“Mama oo’d better look out where oo step,
	I’se walked in oo’s tracks all de way,
And mine s’oes are as muddy as dey can be,
	But oo cant scold Nellie today,
’Cause oo’s are as muddy as mine don’t oo see? 
Oh mama who finked dat so naughty oo’d be.”

I paused in my reverie, baby’s voice
	Had called me back from my aerial flight,
And turning, I saw that I’d left the path
	And taken a wrong, instead of the right, 
And there we were in the mud ankle deep,
Just reward for neglecting the path to keep.

I snatched up my baby, and then retraced
	My steps till ’gain I’d reached the track,
Then hand in hand, homeward we took our
		“March,”
	Thankful at last when we were back, 
The muddy shoes removed, the tired head
Pillowed upon my breast, while this I read:

“Thy children’s children in thy steps shall walk,
	Thy latter days shall be thy best,
Apostles, prophets at thy board shall dine, 
	And thy posterity shall call thee blest,
While useful ’mong thy sisters thou shalt be, 
In deeds of mercy love and charity.”

“Thy children’s children in thy path shall
		walk,”
	The words seemed burning in my very soul
My life, its acts before my vision passed 
	And I in judgment sat upon the whole,
How small my spirit stature seemed that day,
How unlike His, “The Life, the Sight the
		Way.”

Long, long I sat accusing self of wrongs, 
	Which ere had trifling seemed to me,
But viewed today gigantic forms assumed,
	“The beam removed,” I plain could see
How oft by foolish follies I was led, 
How oft omitted duties, hard words said.

How oft controlled in anger ’stead of love,
	The “daily prayer,” a “thing forgot,” 
While oft “before my neighbor’s door I wept,”
	The while repining with my lot,
Forgetful that our Father’s watchful care 
Is “over all,” yet, each his cross must bear.

Humbly I bowed before the Lord in prayer, 
	Pleading for pardon, mercy, love,
Soon o’er my senses stole a holy calm, 
	Such as comes only from above, 
And lo! a voice seemed saying o’er and o’er:
	“Rise erring daughter, go and sin no
		more,

Henceforward follow whither I shall lead,
	I’ll keep thy steps so free from sin,
Thy children, following, shall see thy light,
	And they, with thee, the victory win,
But humble ye must walk, holding ‘the rod’
Braving life’s battles, trusting Me, thy God.”

The years have flown, and though my erring
		feet,
	In moments weak, have slid aside the track,
Anon the memory of that baby voice,
	In cadence sweet has called me back,
Struggling I seek for aid from Christ my head, 
	Led by a little child, as prophets said.

