WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Better not tell your neighbor your
troubles unless you are willing to listen to his.


Mrs. Alice Parker Lesser attorney at law
of Boston, Mass., has been admitted by
Judge Putnam to practise in the U. S. Dis- 
trict and Circuit Courts; also in the U. S.
District Court of Appeals.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss
Susan B Anthony have addressed an open
letter to President McKinley, asking that
suffrage may be granted to the women of
Hawaii upon the same terms as the men.
	Miss Maud Claiborne of Glenwood, Utah,
has been elected to a primary position in
the Des Moines schools at an increased
salary, with promise of a further increase.
But the Glenwood board were not willing to
let her go. She was too good a teacher to
release. From the teacher’s standpoint we
are sorry for Miss Claiborne, since such op-
portunities do not come often; but she is to
be congratulated upon the evident appreci-
ation of her work both at home and abroad.
	Mr. Edward W. Bok, editor of the Ladies
Home Journal, says: “The platform woman
has never been a credit to, but ever a blot
upon American womanhood. I make this
emphatic statement from a personal knowl-
edge of the homes which these women
leave behind when they go to their meet-
ings.” It would be interesting to know
whether young Mr. Bok was ever enter-
tained in the home of Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe, Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Mrs.
Lucy Stone, Frances E. Willard, Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Ballington
Booth, Susan B. Anthony, or any of the
most distinguished “platform women” of
the United States?


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not[-] open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD-WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


