[Column 1]
	“Although the Mahdi himself died in
June 1885, the movement he had originated
suffered no check. * * * By the end of
that year Mahdism reigned supreme
throughout the Soudan.” And even the
southern part of Egypt fell under that
power. But soon dissensions arose among
the Arabs. The Khalifa, successor to the
Mahdi, was a western Arab and treated the
easterners with cruelty. Things continued
in a turmoil until the spring of 1898, when
General Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener having.
been put in command, he at the head of a
powerful army composed of British soldiers
and troops of the Khedive, completely
overcame and subdued the fanatical rebels.
His victory was a most brilliant one and
caused the greatest rejoicing throughout the
British Empire, and indeed throughout the
civilized world.
	Like many another brave British leader
Kitchener is an Irishman by birth. It is
said that “he is a soldier by inheritance, by
training and by instinct.” He is forty-
eight years of age, tall, measuring full six
feet, and with the swarthy complexion that
would be but natural after years of exposure
to the tropical sun. Most of his service
has been in the far East, and he has ac-
quired a remarkable knowledge of Moham-
medan languages and tribes. This knowl-
edge has been of great service to him at
times. The following story is told as an
instance:
	“Two Arab date sellers were arrested as
suspected spies and confined in the guard
tent. Shortly after a third Arab prisoner
was hastily bundled into the tent. An
animated jabbering ensured among the
three and in a few minutes, much to the
astonishment, of the sentry, the latest ar-
rival drew aside the doorway and stepped
out, remarking, ‘All right, sentry, I’m
going to the General.’ It was Kitchener.
Again only a few minutes passed when an
orderly hurried up and a spade was handed
to the two Arabs, who were marched out-
side the lines, ordered to dig their graves,
and were shot. They were spies, and
Kitchener had detected them.”
	The glory of Kitchener’s successful and
splendid expedition consisted as much in
the way the soldiers were cared for under
adverse circumstances, as in the wonderful
fighting.
	Oudurman, a little north of Khartoum, is
the successor to that fallen city. General
Gordon expressed a preference for having
the capital at Oudurman, or even a little
farther north on the right bank of the Nile,
as the location of Khartoum was very un-
healthy and the cost of making it healthy
would be very great. It was at Oudurman
that the Khalefa’s army met with such ter-
rible slaughter. His men came bravely
forth to meet Kitchener’s Anglo-Egyptian
troops, but owing to the machine guns of
the English the massacre, was great. The
number of men of the Khalifa left dead on
the field has been variously estimated at
from five to twenty thousand.
	In the earlier stages of Kitchener’s ex-
pedition it was seriously feared that the
French were preparing to cut across from
their holdings in western Soudan to a point
on the Nile above Khartoum, at or about
Fashoda, for the sake of preventing the
English from going any further. “The
seriousness of such a proposition can only
be understood when one remembers the
peculiar nature of the Nile. If the French
were in full possession even at so remote a
point as Fashoda, they could at any time

