SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held Jan. 9, 1899, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Singing “Come let us anew.”
Prayer by Sister Louisa Stevens. Singing
“All hail the new born year.” Minutes
read and approved.
	Counselor Stevenson told the congrega-
tion that President Horne had been very
sick but was improving. Spoke of the les-
sons we must learn in life and how valu-
able they would be when we had learned
them, pray for the help of the Lord. The
Prophet Joseph Smith said at one o’clock
was a good time to pray. Sister Kiddle
who had testified in our last meeting had
now been laid to rest. Spoke also of the
death of Sister Priscilla Staines, said let us
all be prepared to go.
	Sister Brown spoke of Temple work and
the peace it brings us, thought we should
look to God to heal our sick, etc. The
congregation sang “The Spirit of God.”
	Sister Mary P. Silver said, “We are the
most blessed people on the earth.” Ex-
horted all to attend to their duties and be
prepared to meet eternity.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “We’ll stand
the strain.” A sister, name unknown, of-
fered a humble prayer, and another sister
bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Barnes said she knew Joseph Smith
was a prophet of God. She became con-
verted to the Gospel by reading the Book
of Mormon. Through her trials and hard-
ships she had been brought nearer to God.
Another sister bore an excellent testimony.
	Sister Almeda Young spoke upon bearing
testimony when the Spirit of God moves,
and the necessity of our listening to those
who are placed over us, and of the integrity
of President M. I. Horne.
	The congregation sang “Arise my soul,
arise.” Sister Barton spoke of the com-
mandments given to Joseph Smith, and
said how blessed we should be if we would
keep them. She thought the rearing of the
youth was of the utmost importance and we
should lead in all things, attend to our
meetings, pay our tithing and never speak
against the priesthood.
	Sister Louise Stevenson said she thought
it was best to go with our children to their
meetings, teach them principles of truth.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley and Sister Mary
Morris bore testimonies of the Gospel and
the peace it brings. A sister in the congre-
gation spoke of her sons going to the late
war and how the Lord had preserved them.
Another sister bore testimony and urged all
to stand firm and unwavering to the truth.
Another sister told how her father had cast
her off because she joined the Latter-day
Saints.
	Sister Mary Morris thought those who
spoke against the principles of the Gospel
were prompted by the adversary. Congre-
gation sang “What was witnessed in the
heavens.”
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said let us
keep humble and purify our souls so that
we can enjoy the spirit of the Lord. We
are a tried people, but go to our Heavenly
Father and he will never betray us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
Sister Lydia D. Alder.
