[Column 2]
Turkish government, and France and Eng-
land were again represented in the govern-
ment. “In 1882 Arabi Bey fomented an
uprising, the object of which was to restore
Egypt to the Egyptians.” With the help
of the British fleet and the British army they
were successful. “Then France refused to
take any part in carrying on the govern-
ment, so it devolved upon Great Britain.”
And thus France lost her hold upon Egypt.
	It was during this civil strife in Egypt
that the revolt began in the Soudan, July
1881, led by Mohammed Ahmed. The
Mohammedans are represented as being
superstitious, bigoted and fanatical. They
have long looked forward to a Mahdi, the
literal meaning of which is “guided or
directed one.” “According to Mohamme-
dan belief a spiritual and temporal ruler des-
tined to appear on the earth during the last
days. Some sects hold that the Mahdi has
appeared and in concealment awaits the
time of his manifestation. There have
been a number of pretended Mahdis, of
whom the last of importance was this
Mohammed Ahmed.”
	He was a man of the people, of obscure
birth or origin, but was, or pretended to be,
a descendent of the great prophet. He is
described as a great student with probably
a natural religious bent and possessed of in-
tense cunning. So it is “not difficult to im-
agine how easily he drifted into the lead of
one of the most fanatical movements, to
which Easterners are so prone.” This belief
of the Mohammedans is compared to the
Jewish belief in the coming of the Messiah.
	When the people of the Soudan were left
to themselves the enforced good behavior of
the rulers changed and the people felt op-
pressed and unjustly dealt with. The slave
traders were glad to be rid of Gordon’s rule.
The time was ripe for a revolt and a
leader awaiting his opportunity. 	
	This is the story of the beginning of the
siege by the Mahdi. The people inspired
by religious fervor or fanaticism fought as
only such people can. Attempt after at-
tempt was made to crush this revolt, but
the Mahdi came off ever victorious. His
victories inspired the Soudanese with the
greatest enthusiasm and religious zeal, and
they believed they had indeed the expected
Mahdi. The British did what they could
to help the Egyptians, but the flood was
not checked. Gordon had reached Khar-
toum with a command, but by the fall of
Beehu he was completely shut in. He re-
mained at his post hoping against hope, un-
able to accomplish his heart’s desire to
crush the Mahdi. In England the people
were roused to fever heat and a relief ex-
pedition was sent to Gordon. This expedi-
tion had to fight the most bitter fights to get
to its destination, and arrived, alas, just too
late! Gordon had been most foully slain,
and England had to mourn the loss of a
great leader and many brave men. Gor-
don’s personal characteristics made him one
of the celebrities of the world. His death
occurred January 26, 1885. A statue to
him has been erected in Trafelgar square,
London. Khartoum, of course, fell before
the enemy, the city being destroyed.


