MARGARET CHERRY.
	In memory of Mrs. Margaret Cherry,
who with her husband and six children
came to Utah in 1847 from Kentucky,
where she was born February 11, 1811.
They moved in the summer of 1848 to
Centerville, where she has lived ever since
until her death, which occurred October 18,
1898.
	Sister Cherry was a widow for thirty-
four years. When the Relief Society was
organized she became a member and officer
of that society and opened her house for
them to meet in. She afterwards gave a
small house to the society which they met
in for twenty years. As age and infirmities
came on her she was unable to leave her
home for a number of years. She was of a
peaceful disposition, a good neighbor and
endeavored to live her religion and keep
the golden rule. She died in full faith and
left a large posterity, of whom nearly all
are in the Church.
			MARY ROCKWOOD.
Centerville Relief Society.
KATE LAUGHAN LEISHMAN.
	We have been called upon to record the
death of one of our beloved sisters, Kate
Maughan Leishman, who departed this life at
her home in Wellsville, Cache Co., Utah,
Jan 15, 1899.
	Sister Leishman has been a faithful work-
er in our Relief Society, and has endeared
herself to the little band of sisters in this
branch by her sweet and gentle disposition,
and we her sisters offer these resolutions of
respect as a slight token of our love for her
who has been called to a higher sphere of
action.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That as God in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our dear
sister, Kate Maughan Leishman, we the
officers and members of the Baker City
branch of the Relief Society, express our
heartfelt sympathy for the bereaved hus-
band and family in their loss; also that they
have been greatly blessed with her sweet
and gentle influence in her home; and be it
further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be
placed upon our society records, one sent to
the bereaved family and one sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication.
			REBECCA NIBLEY, Pres.
			NELLIE W. ROUNDY, Sec.
A SAD BEREAVEMENT.
	Sister Elizabeth Pehrson, beloved daugh-
ter of Eric John and Anna S. Pehrson,
died January 15, 1899, after a lingering
weakness for some time, but was not con-
fined to her bed till one week prior to her
death, when she was attacked with an in-
termittent fever. Her weakness became
greater, though she took nourishment till
the last. She passed away without a strug-
gle Sunday morning between five and six
o’clock, in the arms of her beloved mother
and sister.
	Sister Pehrson was born and raised in
the Gospel and died a faithful Latter day
Saint, placing her religion above every
thing else. She was honest, virtuous, kind
and patient, never refusing any call that
was made upon her, therefore holding
many responsible positions at her death.

