EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety in all the several Stakes of Zion and of
missions or branches of the Relief Society
where Stakes are not organized, are hereby
requested to send statistical and financial re-
ports for the entire year of 1898, to the
general secretary, room 208 Templeton
building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
		E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.

	The Utah Legislature is drawing to a


close, and much of the valuable time has
been frittered away in voting for a Senator
to little or no purpose. It is very undigni-
fied and unsatisfactory to the people who
elected them to waste so much time in
complimentary and uncomplimentary speech
making, and delay serious matters which
should have been acted upon.
	President Jane S. Richards who recently
visited California gives a most interesting
account of the branches of the ReliefSociety
in that state. She speaks in the highest
terms of praise of the untiring efforts of the
sisters in their labors of love and the good
spirit enjoyed by them, in which she par-
ticipated. The pleasure they expressed in
her being present and speaking encourag-
ingly to them in their society meetings is
deeply felt and warmly appreciated by Sis-
ter Richards, whose love for the work of
the Relief Society stimulates her to under-
take much more than her delicate health
would warrant. To the writer in the office
of the “Exponent” she expressed the most
loving tenderness, interest and sympathy in
all the sisters in these branehes, and it is her
ardent desire to have them feel their good
works are appreciated in Zion.
	We must express our great satisfaction in
meeting with many dear old friends while
absent in the East, and among others Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who is more
beautiful than any picture of her could be
made, for she shows the eloquent beauty of
the soul within, and her soft white hair in
the loose puffs is like a halo above her
sweet, tender, motherly face. She con-
verses as pleasantly as ever and is as bril-
liant and witty as in her palmiest days.
We shall never forget in time or eternity
how grandly Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anth-
ony received the first Utah delegates, (Mrs.
Wells aud Mrs, Williams) in the Conven-
tion at Washington in January, 1879, and
we shall always honor these two noble wo-
men, the grandest types of American
womanhood. 
	Another dear old friend who plead our
cause most eloquently in those days long
ago, and whom we always make a point of
calling upon when we go to Washington,
D. C., is Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer who
should never be forgotten by the Latter-
day Saints; she has been a staunch friend,
and manifested her valor in the hour of
greatest need, and when strong men were
less courageous in defense of the right.


