	SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall January 21,1899,
with Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Counselor Webb. Singing, “O
say what is truth.” Minutes read and ac-
cepted. Sister Annie T. Hyde stated that
President Horne was not able to be present
but that Sister Priscilla J. Riter had been
chosen to be superintendent of the nurses
who had been trained for Relief Society
work by Dr. Roberts, that President Horne
had sent a letter suggesting that a com-
mittee be appointed to solicit for bedding
etc., also to visit the drug stores and see
what discount they would give on drugs, or
anything that might be needed in their line.
Said, “Sister Riter will engage the nurse,
and she will go out under her direction and
report to her when through. Sister Riter
will visit the sick at least once.” Sister
Hyde advised the nurses to make them-
selves competent and desirable help.
	Sister Riter addressed the meeting a few
moments. Said she felt it a great responsi-
bility that had been placed upon her, and
also wished to have the support of the
nurses as she expected to give them hers.
Advised them to be united and forgiving.
Told them she did not want them to be
overburdened, but come and talk over with
her any dissatisfaction that might exist
while in her employ.
	Dr. Roberts hoped the strong bond of
love would exist between Sister Riter and
the nurses that existed between herself and
these students. Hoped all would start out
on a two years’ mission, and do anything
that was necessary for the comfort of the
sick, rise above annoyances and criticisms.
"It is understood the sick can have prefer-
ences and express them in regard to the
nurse, but no nurse is expected to go out
without being under the direction of Sister
Riter.”
	A sewing meeting was appointed for
February 3, in the Relief Society hall in
the 14th ward.
	Counselor Stevenson praised the Lord
that the sick could thus be provided with
nurses. She felt that the hand of the Lord
was in this work. Desired all to pray for
the recovery of President Horne.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Benediction by Sister Clara C. Cannon.

Minutes of Semi-monthly meeting held
February 11, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding. Sing-
ing, “O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer by
Sister E. Paul. Singing, “O, awake my
slumbering minstrel. Minutes read and
approved.
	Counselor Stevenson said she was sorry
President Horne was not able to come to-
day. Spoke of having visited the Relief
Society conference of Pocatello. Though
they did not have the advantages we have
they seemed as if they were advancing fast-
er than we were in some things. They

