SAN FRANClSCO LETTER.

Dear Sister Wells:

	It may be of interest to some of the read-
ers of the “Exponent” to know that in far
off San Francisco there are a few Saints
who are striving assiduously for that goal
which the precious truths of the Gospel has
placed within the reach of suffering, strug-
gling humanity, viz., the salvation of the
soul.
	There are but few, comparatively speak-
ing, who have been gathered from the sin
and temptation existing in this great city,
the enormity of which none can conceive
except those who have lived here and per-
sonally observed the conditions existing
morally, spiritually and socially; and when
we consider that out of three hundred
thousand people the Saints number probab-
ly two hundred all told, we cannot but con-
clude that the good seeds which fell by the
wayside have, been almost entirely choked
out by the thrifty growth of the tares.
	* * *
	There are many who do not sense the
imminent danger which threatens them;
they are blind to the fact that there is a
future in which the immutable decree has
gone forth that“all men must be judged ac-
cording to the deeds done in the body,”
but are content to drift along with the tide,
ministering to the selfish, sensual appetites
which are generated and encouraged by
luxurious living, seeking only the pleasures
of today, uninfluenced by the possibility of
a tomorrow.
	To cast aside the every day routine of
worldly pleasures and become a follower of
Jesus Christ is a sacrifice but few can make,
albeit, those who have become Saints are
sincere, honest, earnest people.
	This branch of the Latter-day Saints is
in a prosperous condition and ably presided
over by President Woodward. Our meet-
ings are fairly attended, especially on Sun-
day evenings. Usually the congregation is
so large it is necessary to arrange extra
seats for the accomodation of all present.
The visitors are attentive, and as a rule
seem to be a class of people who come for
information and not to disturb.
	Sister Ratenbury, a lady possibly re-
membered by many of the old residents of
Salt Lake City for her ability to quote
Shakespeare, has the Relief Society in
charge, and not only the poor and needy
are ministered to by this organization but
also the Elders, whose clothes are reno-
vated and hosiery restored to a useful con-
dition by the sisters on their work days.
	The M. I. Associations are under the
control of Brother Collins and Sister Cum-
mings, formerly of Salt Lake City, and are
completely organized and fully equipped for
mutual improvement.
	The little ones bright and active, ready
and willing to assist, by their little efforts in
making their flourishing organization on an
equality with the ideal Primaries of Utah,
are presided over by Sister Woodward, wife
of President Woodward.
	Indeed the Saints are all zealous, earnest
workers, striving for the same grand prize
which ultimately is received by all those
who live faithfully and according to the
commandments of Him who rewardeth


liberally and upbraideth not. It is gratify-
ing beyond words to know that although
separated from the nucleus of Christ’s King-
dom the subjects thereof are loyal and faith-
ful, and whose impetus to right and proper
living is that grandest and most glorious of
rewards, eternal life.
				Your sister.
					RHODA C. NASH
	San Francisco, Feb. 27, 1899.


