MARGHERlTA ARLINA HAMM.
	“Of the nurses who attended the sick and
wounded some were hired and received a
salary. A second class received no salary,
but had their expenses paid. A third class
paid their own expenses and traveled great
distances in going from their homes to the
camps in the South or in the West Indies.
A fourth class consisted of members of local
branches residing in the neighborhood of
the hospitals, who volunteered their ser-
vices for a day, week, or month, and who
did not wait for any special order from the
central authority. Besides nurses there
were distributors, inspectors, physicians,
clerks, guards, bookkeepers and others.
Altogether over 1,000 volunteers served
their country in the peaceful ranks of the
Red Cross army.
	“Of the amount of money raised and ex-
pended by the Red Cross it is very difficult
to get anything like accurate figures. A
few contributors and auxiliaries published
the value of the supplies they forwarded
either to the supply depots or to the camps,


but at least three-fourths kept undivulged
the value of their donations.
	“Mr. Richard J. Hinton, who gave this
division much study, and found that the
amount of money received at the New
York office between June 15 and August
26 aggregated over $235,000, an average
of $3,400 per day. The supplies received
during the same period came to about
$250,000, or $3,500 per day. * * *
	“The grand total of gifts from all parts of
the world, including supplies and trans-
portation, was not less than $3,000,000 and
probably not more than $4 000,000, al-
though the agents in different states say it
is very difficult to value the supplies.
	“No such munificence was ever known be-
fore in the history of the world. Though
the war is over practically the Red Cross
keeps up its good work and will, as far as
it can, bend its energies to ameliorating
the condition of the Cubans. In Porto
Rico little or nothing remains to be done,
and in the Philippines there will be no
great need of charitable action; but in the
luckless island of Cuba a very large body of
people will require assistance for two or
three years before they become prosperous
and self supporting. Not alone are the
fields ruined, but the homes, factories,
machinery and live-stock have been de-
stroyed.”


