[Column 2]
unassuming. I became identified with the
Relief Society at its reorganization after the
move South, Sister Horne being chosen
president, having previously been coun-
selor to Sister Phebe W. Woodruff. I well
remember how unassuming and gentle she
always seemed in conducting the affairs of
the society, yet firm in all her ways, but
never any arrogance so characteristic of
some. I do not forget how she would in-
tercede with the sisters to do their duty and
laid plans, and persevered in having the
society hall built there; that being com-
pleted paid for and dedicated, how she again
planned for the building of a granary.
President Young counseled each society to
build a hall and a granary as soon as prac-
tiable. She did not procrastinate but
called on the brethren to assist and they re-
sponded. That being accomplished, paid
for and dedicated, she then instructed the
society teachers each fall to gather donations
for wheat; and the motherly care she be-
stowed over that grain!
	I well remember on one occasion in talk-
ing to the sisters having so much to accom-
plish how she plead with them saying,
“Sisters, this is not my society, but our
society.” That went right home. I felt
that I was willing to do any thing in my
power to assist that noble woman; and
many more reminiscences I might mention.
Her family is an example to the community.
What a Heavenly blessing! but that wo-
man honored her husband, and her husband
honored her. I have always felt that this
was the secret of their success. While
raising her family she was content to stay
at home and attend to her first duty, and
not trust those God-given treasures to the
care of others. And now, behold the second
mission she has filled.
	My young sisters, let us emulate her ex-
ample, and let us lead our children to be-
gin the right way, and then continue doing
so. Let us teach our sons to honor their
wives, our daughters to honor their hus-
bands, that peace and content may abide in
the homes of the Saints.
	Oh, what a mission there is for each and
all of us if we will but fill it! May heaven’s
richest blessings rest upon Sister Horne and
all apertaining to her and may the
mementoes presented to her yesterday be-
token her sisters’ good feelings and be a
comfort to her; and may she live in peace
and happiness and continue her labors of
love until she is satisfied with life, is the
sincere desire of one who loves to honor her
and desires to testify to her goodness, hav-
ing known and labored with her so many
years.
						E. J. S.


A German biologist has calculated that
the human brain contains 300,000,000 nerve
cells, 5,000,000 of which die and are suc-
ceeded by new ones every day. At this
rate, assuming the correctness of the Ger-
man’s guess, we get an entirely new brain
every sixty days.—Medical Record.
	The statement by some of the daily press
that the Daughters of the Revolution ad-
mit collateral descendants of revolutionary
patriots is effectually disposed of by the
following extract from their constitution:
	Article III., Section I.—Qualifications.
Any woman shall be eligible to member-
ship in the Daughters of the Revolution
who is above the age of eighteen years, of
good character, and a lineal descendant of
an ancestor, who, etc.


