THE SILK WORM AND ITS SILK

	When Noah was a little boy, about 150
or 200 years old, and hundreds of years be- 
fore he received Divine instructions to con-
struct the Ark, when not far to the west-
ward of Mount Ararat where the Ark rested
after the flood, and just across the Caspian
Sea, a little Chinese girl (she was about 14
years old) named Si-ling chi, the wife of the
Emperor Hoang-ti, was watching one day
early in the spring, with astonishment the
movements of some caterpillars that were
feeding upon the leaves of a mulberry tree.
Day by day she watched and day by day
the caterpillars grew rapidly.
	She noticed that as they moved their
heads from side to side that a liquid, gum-
my substance appeared to issue from their
mouths and soon change into a soft and
downy thread. She used to go every day
and watch the caterpillars working. Bye
and bye, when the cocoons were formed,
she had the curiosity to take one in her
hand and examine it. She found it about
the size and shape of a peanut; from it a
number of loose threads floated about.
Pulling one of them she found it was so
light it would float in the air, yet so tough
she could pull off quite a length of it. It
occured to her that if these cocoons could be
softened she could obtain a longer thread
of the silk and be able to use it. After
some study she soaked the cocoons in
warm water and began pulling on the
thread. To her delight it grew longer and
longer, and she wound it around her fingers
till the cocoon was all unwound, and then
she found she had a continuous thread
3,000 to 4,000 feet long. In her girlish
glee she turned to her waiting woman and
exclaimed, “Hoo-le-ma, (See;) Ming-hing
haynung,” (Look ! How beautiful!) The
silk when reeled was a bright golden color
and doubtless it is from this fact the Chi-
nese are so fond of yellow, it being the
royal color of their country.
	Si-ling-chi’s industry did not end here,
for she went several steps further and
taught the ladies of her palace to manu-
facture and embroider silk. Not only the
emperor, but Mandarins and others ap-
peared in public robed in fabrics of dazzling
hues.
	For many years the Chinese guarded
well the secret of the source of their im-
mense wealth, for raw silk was imported
all over Asia, India, Persia and Arabia.
There are two legends as to how the secret
got out. One is that some monks conveyed
the eggs in their staffs over the border; the
other is that the pantless little fellow Cupid
had a hand in it.
	The first known place outside of Asia
where silk was cultivated was the Island of
Cos. The cloth woven in this country
was of the thinnest possible texture and
transparent. Justinian secured a monopoly
of the trade. Under the care of the Greeks
the silk worm took kindly to its Western
home and their silken textures became
famous. At a later period the Saracens
maintained a mastery over the trade and
by them it was spread east and west.
	The eggs of the silk worm are deposited
by a moth known as the Bombyx mori,
which lays about 350 of them. After im-
pregnating the female the male dies. He
rarely survives more than four or five
hours. The female lives two or three
days to deposit the egg. When first de-
posited they are a beautiful bright hue, but
they soon turn color, becoming dull and

