[Column 1]
factorily answered. Those who strike out
into new territory and take up new land
making homes by dint of hard labor and
grow up with the community become in
many instances not only founders of cities
and towns, but often if capable and reliable
are chosen to fill important positions of
trust and emolument.
	Speaking of farmers as gentlemen, a cir-
cumstance came under the notice of the
writer which illustrates the fact. Visiting
in New England at a country farm house a
census taker called one morning to make
inquiries for his report. Among other
questions was the one curtly put, “What is
your occupation?” “A gentleman farmer,”
was the reply. “A gentleman farmer!”
said the interlocuter as he surveyed the
man from head to foot, “can’t I give you
some other title?” “No sir,” was the
only answer. Evidently being satisfied he
would get no further information he left
the house.
	Afterwards Mr. H. explained that every
clerk or wage-earner was of the opinion
that men who tilled the ground or were
engaged in agricultural pursuits could not
be classed as gentlemen; and it gave me
new thoughts upon the subject. Mr. H.
had been a Prof. of mathematics, a civil
engineer, had even been a member of the
Legislature of his state, but preferred in
his later years to retire to his country farm
and discard all other pursuits. Neverthe-
less he still intended to be considered a
gentleman by such young men as the one
referred to, and a gentleman he was indeed
though he did more actual work on his own
farm than half a dozen hired men, for in
these days some of the laboring men have
all flocked to the cities and large towns. A
striking contrast to the New England of
half a century ago.
	It is a well known fact that the greatest
men America has produced have been
raised upon a farm and accustomed to the
hard work of the farmer’s son. To be a
land owner was the pride and ambition of
the early settlers of our country.
	Homes of their own for the common peo-
ple was the sentiment Brigham Young
tried to inculcate and practically to demon-
strate in these mountain vales during the
period of the early settlement here. Who
does not know that the home is the centre
from which springs the best in life and in
government. Not from hotels and board-
ing houses, nor from transient occupancy
of "houses for rent”—whether they are
spacious mansions or neat cottages or
miserable hovels. The home which is our
own is the ideal one, the children enshrine
it in their memory, “the old home,” and
“childhood’s home,” are subjects for the
poets. If every young man in the com-
munity would strive for a home of his own,
how much it would do towards a better and
more permanent standing in the welfare of
the state.
	The writer can never forget with what
laudable pride she spoke upon the subject
during her first visit to Washington twenty
years ago. And how the ladies of the Con-
vention listened to women owning their
own homes and paying their own taxes.
The president of the United States himself
listened carefully to the statement, and his
gentle and amiable wife, how interested
she felt in this simple fact. But, alas, how
different, now!
	Simplicity of living is a virtue. Not
miserliness, but true economy which so
few people in this age seem to practice.

