ELIZABETH TIMPSON.

	The death of Sister Elizabeth Timpson
which occurred December 31, 1898, re-
moves from our midst a faithful laborer of
righteousness. Always cheerful and lov-
ing she early won the love of both old and
young, and her departure from this life is
a loss keenly felt by all who knew her.
	She was born in Oundle, Northampton,
England, March 15, 1838. She was the
wife of Wm. B. Timpson, who preceded
her in death thirty-five years. She had be-
come a member of the Church previous to
the death of her husband, and in 1868 with
a family of five small children came to
Utah. She has resided in Salt Lake City
ever since and for many years was a
member of the Sixteenth ward.
	Always ready and anxious to do good
she was among the first to become associated
with the Relief Society of the ward, and
became a teacher of the society and held
that position until her death, never falter-
ing in the good cause. Her loss will be
deeply felt by her colaborers, for although
of late years she has been very weak phy-
sically, yet her presence was always in-
spiring. It is needless to speak of her
goodness, for everywhere her works testify
of it, and she will never be forgotten by
her friends.
	For many years she held a prominent
position in the Sunday School, also in the
Primary Association, being president of
that association at the time of her death.
She loved the children and they in turn
loved her and greatly miss her at their
meetings.
	Notwithstanding her many duties she
never neglected her home and her children.
Sister Timpson leaves four sons and one
daughter, all of whom are now married and
have families of their own.
	Last spring Sister Timpson suffered from
an attack of pneumonia which left her in a
very weak state, but without serious results
until one week before her death At this
time some very astonishing incidents oc-
curred which are related by one of her sons
as follows:
	“For some little time,” said he, “mother
had been staying at the house of my aunt,
her sister, in the Seventh ward. On Fri-
day last mother told her sister that she was
going home, as she thought she had visited
long enough. My aunt tried to persuade
her to remain, because she was fond of her
company, but mother came home, and on
Monday told her sister not to think her
action strange. 'I wanted to come home
and die in my own bed,’ explained mother.
	“On Wednesday last we were called to the
bedside and mother bade us all good bye,
wishing us a happy new year. At 12 o’clock
noon, she passed through the throes of
death and the spirit had flown. All the
members of the family were present, as
were a number of friends, and they will
bear out my statement. Mother had been
dead for over fifteen minutes and we were
about to arrange for the proper care of the
remains when mother opened her eyes and
said, ‘O, what a good sleep I have had! I
wish I could tell you all I have seen, but I
can’t. I will say, though, that I have
suffered the pain of death and my spirit
has been separated from my body. I saw
a great many things, but am forbidden to
tell you of them. Your father has not
come for me yet, so I will remain with you


a little, just a little longer, and  when he
does come for me I shall go with him and
shall not return to you. What I saw, I
saw in the spirit, and what I say now I say
in the flesh. 
	“We were very much impressed with
what mother had said, the more so because
of her absolute rationality while making
the strange statement.
	“A similiar occurrence came again on
Thursday at noon, and we are all left in
wonder as to what it all meant. There
are people outside of our family who wit-
nessed the strange and unusual occurrence
and who are as much astonished as we are.
When mother died at 3 o’clock this morn-
ing we thought perhaps it was a repetition
of the two previous incidents, and for that
reason we made no move whatever towards
arrangements for care of the remains until
9 o’clock, six hours after death. A state-
ment made by mother after her first return
to life was proved when death came this
morning. On Wednesday she said ‘I have
suffered the pains of death, but when your
father comes and I leave you, I will go
peacefully and without pain.'
	“And so it was. Death came as an
angel of peace and there was not even a
sigh at dissolution.” 
	Sister Timpson has done a great work,
led the life of a noble woman and we feel
that she has gone to a great reward.
	RACHEL ISAACS, Pres.
