[Column 1]
Stake may have our faith and prayers that
they may be comforted and able to fill their
holy calling.” Sister Annie Wixom said,
"I like to uphold the officers for I know
they need it. I have belonged to the Re-
lief Society from the beginning. I was in-
timately acquainted with Sister Morley,
Aunt Harriet and Sister Widerborg. I
think there never were three better women.
I am pleased to mention their names and
speak of their good works.
	Sister Mary Jansen of the 3rd ward said,
Sister Widerborg has left us, but I think
she has always been trying to be a true,
faithful Latter-day Saint, and her counsel-
ors were true and faithful in their calling.
There is a great deal done in the Relief
Society; we marvel at it.”
	Sister Harper of Calls Fort said, “I hope
I may live so that there may be a place for
me where those who have left us are."
President Susannah P. Booth said, “I have
great sympathy for my sisters from the
settlements trying to come here at ten
o’clock. I know the Lord will not forsake
me if I do my part, and I know He will
help my counselors if we work in unison
and love. There is just as much responsi-
bility on the members as on the officers.
May we again associate with Sister Morley,
Aunt Harriet and Sister Widerborg, those
we have loved and labored with. I wish
those present to stay to luncheon provided
by the 3rd ward.”
	Singing “Now let us rejoice." Benedic-
tion by Bishop Jensen of Bear River City.
	Afternoon session After opening exer-
cises Sister Thorne of Three Mile said, “We
are trying to do all the good we can for the
poor. I ask the Lord to help us live hum-
ble and near to Him.” Sister Sadie Han-
son said, “I feel grateful and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord that I am able to
walk to this stand.” Spoke of her serious
illness and reported Beaver Dam ward.
	Bishop Jensen of Bear Lake City said,
“I feel it quite an honor to represent our
Relief Society. I have labored together
with the sisters for a little more than seven-
teen years. It has been a labor of love,
they have always been on hand voluntarily
to assist in building up the kingdom. We
have a president eighty-two years old."
Reported the ward and said, “These sisters
have not been called by President Clawson
nor President Snow, but directly by the
Lord, and I know it, and  if they will be
faithful they will succeed.”
	President Rudger Clawson said, “I am
not very well and if it was not the first
meeting after your reorganization and other
sundry reasons, I would not have been here
today.” Counseled the Relief Society to
hold short meetings. He then presented
the officers of the Stake Board as follows:
Susannah P. Booth, president; Emilia D.
Madsen and Louisa Peters, counselors;
Annie Wixom, recording secretary; Emilia
D. Madsen, corresponding secretary; Fanny
Graehl, treasurer; Eugenie S. Pierce, assis-
tant secretary. Vote was unanimous.
	President Clawson continued: “Sister
Widerborg was a woman of great faith, she
was always in line with the priesthood, she
was very successful in her labors. The sis-
ters have a little surprise for her counselors,
Sister Wright and Sister Reese, who have
labored so faithfully. We feel to bless
them, the Lord will not forsake them, the
sisters want them to know they are remem-
bered, we will remember them. I feel to
bless them in authority of the holy priest-
hood, in the name of God."

