			SANPETE STAKE. 
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held in Moroni Dec. 9th, 1898. Counselor
A. L. Cox presiding, singing “How firm a
foundation.” Opening prayer by Elder
James Jensen; singing, “Now let us re-
joice” etc. Minutes read and approved.
	Counselor Cox made opening remarks.
Was pleased to meet with the sisters in
conference, but she very much regretted
the absence of our beloved president Sister
M. A. Hyde, who is seriousy ill, hoped the
sisters would all remember her in their
prayers. Roll call showed a fair repre-
sentation considering the severity of the
weather.
	The different branches were represented.
	Counselor A. L. Cox was greatly pleased
and encouraged by the favorable reports
and especially the increased attendance.
Said it was not the destiny of the Latter-
day Saints to stand still and was glad to
hear of the advance made along the lines of
Relief Society work. Was also pleased to
hear of increased diligence in storing grain.
Said before another conference a new year
will be ushered in. Hoped the spirit of im-
provement would continue to be manifest
in all our labors. Conference adjourned
till 2 p. m. Singing “Praise to the Man”
etc. Benediction by Sister Christina
Thompson.
	Afternoon session: Singing “The Spirit
of God” etc. Prayer by Sister Jane Bench,
Singing, “For the strength of the hills”
etc, 
	Counselor A. L. Cox was much gratified 
that so many of the presidents had ex-


pressed their intention of building granaries
for themselves, as it showed a desire to have
their wheat properly taken care of and thus
encourage others to contribute grain for
storing. Made reference to the recently ap-
pointed Annual Day on March 17; urged
the necessity of a general observance of the
day and also the collection of the ten cent
donation. Requested the sisters to sustain
the “Exponent” in a society capacity and
so far as possible, as individuals. Also
spoke on silk, dwelt at some length on the
duties of teachers, and the necessity of
seeking divine aid in their labors.
	Counselor Abagail Shoemaker was much
pleased to hear of the increased diligence
manifested in storing grain. It is a mission
placed upon us which we should strive to
fulfill to the best of our ability. Was
thankful that the Prophet Joseph had been
impressed to organize the Relief Society,
but that we be diligent if we expect to re-
receive the blessings pronounced to the
faithful.
	Sister Shoemaker said that President
McAllister had expressed a wish that the
Relief Society make some carpet for the
Temple, which she was sure would be ac-
complished.
	Sister Cox made closing remarks. Spoke
of the necessity of cultivating the gift of
faith, and of the marvelous escape of the
Utah boys in the battles, at Manila, which
she considered largely due to the prayers of
the Saints in their behalf. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “We thank thee O, God for a
Prophet.” Benediction by A, L. Cox.
