[Column 2]
fully and won the respect of all who knew
her.
	She was buried from the 8th ward meet-
ing house, which was beautifully draped
and trimmed with smilax, on Monday 16.
Her pall-bearers were six of her grandsons.
Every honor was paid her, the meeting
house was filled, the floral offerings were
very beautiful. One from the Relief Soci-
ety was a sheaf of wheat from Philadelphia
and a sickle.
	She was sick for many months and bore
her sufferings uncomplainingly. She knew
she could not recover and gave directions
concerning her funeral. She was a faith-
ful worker in the cause of truth and has
earned a rest from her labors of nearly
eighty-two years. She leaves many near
relatives in the Eastern states, one being a
twin sister.
							E. F.
LOUISA G. HENINGER.
	Sister Louisa G. Heninger was born in
Bland Co, Virginia, September 8, 1836.
She was the daughter of Francis Grose-
close and Mary I. Grosclose, that being her
mother’s maiden name also.
	Sister Louisa was of a gentle, mild and
patient disposition, exhibiting in her tender
years a veneration for God and sacred
things, possessing a prayerful heart and
desire to understand the principles taught
in the Scriptures of divine truth. With
such characteristics she was readily im-
pressed with the truth of the Gospel as re-
vealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in these
last days. Elder Jedediah M. Grant intro-
duced the Gospel into that section in 1839
or 1840, and made many converts to the
truth Among them was Absalom Young
who became a very capable Elder in that
section of Virginia. Sister Louisa with
her father was baptized by Elder Absalom
Young, December 3, 1856, in Holsten river,
Bland Co., Virginia. She promptly secured
the spirit of the Gospel and took pleasure at
all times in hearing its principles expounded
and in doing all in her power to explain it
to others and remove prejudice from the
minds of the misinformed.
	She was married to James Preston Hen-
inger June 15, 1859, who also at an early
date had embraced the Gospel. They re-
mained in Virginia for some years and their
house was always the home of the Elders
from Zion. Sister Louisa and her husband
never felt that they could do enough to
make the servants of the Lord comfortable,
and to assist them in every way to prose-
cute their missionary labors.
	Their home was ever open to public
meetings when more capacious buildings
could not be procured. Many of the good
“Virginia folk” have listened at their
family fireside to the Gospel expounded by
Elders from Utah. Be it said to their credit
also, that they entertained the Baptist, the
Methodist, the Lutheran, and every class of
preacher that came to their neighborhood,
and gave them the best they had of the
comforts of life. By their sojourn in Vir-
ginia a permanent home was made for the
Elders for twenty-six years, during which
time many Elders found a welcome home
and many neighbors were brought to a
knowledge of the truth.
	Sister Heninger with her husband and
eight children and two children of her hus-
band’s by a former wife emigrated to Utah
in the month of November, 1881. They
settled in Eden, Weber Co., where they

[Column 3]
purchased a good farm and made them a
new home. They received their blessings
in the House of the Lord, and have been
constantly faithful to their duties. Brother
Heninger preceded his faithful wife to the
spirit world nine years and two months.
Sister Heninger was confined to her bed
three weeks, feeling sure that her time had
come and so stated to her family. Her only
desire to live was to work in the Temple
for her dead. Her son Harvey is now on a
mission to his native state, and is gathering
genealogical data. During her last illness
she was filled with the calm, quiet influence
of the Holy Spirit. Those who visited her
and administered unto her were all im-
pressed with the heavenly influence which
was with her.
	She passed peacefully to the world be-
yond without the sting of death, dying in
the Lord, November 24, 1898, surrounded
by all her children except one who is on a
mission to the Southern States. She was
the mother of eight children, two sons and
six daughters, every one of whom has em-
braced the Gospel and is living in the faith
thereof.
	At her funeral consoling remarks were
made by Bishop Pitkin of Millville, Cache
Co., and other Elders well acquainted with
the deceased. Her remains were laid quiet-
ly to rest in the Ogden cemetery, Sunday,
November 27, 1898. She died in the Lord,
she rests from her labors and her works do
follow her. Peace to her memory, she has
fought the good fight, kept the faith and
will receive a crown of eternal life. May
her children be worthy to meet her in the
morning of the First Resurrection.
						[COM.]
ELLA OLNEY HYDE.
	Ella Olney Hyde, wife of Ezra Hyde,
died at Hyde Park, Utah, January 10,
1899, after an illness of eight months. She
leaves a husband and one child, a father,
mother and other relatives to mourn her
loss.
						[COM.]


