AN INCIDENT.

	Mrs. S: “Will you perform an errand
for me?”
	Mrs. H: “With pleasure, anything that
lies in my power.”
	Mrs. S: “Well then, I wish you
while in the city to call on Mrs. Wells and
ask her to please discontinue the “Ex-
ponent” to me.”
	I looked at the invalid (for she had been
one for many months) in surprise, as I
knew her to be an earnest worker in the
woman’s cause, and a staunch advocate of
the “Exponent.”
	“I see you are surprised,” she said, “it
is true I will greatly miss the little wo-
man’s friend, but I cannot meet the pay-
ment since my illness and I don’t wish to
add to the great burden the editor already
carries. I fully realize she has much to
contend with.”
	As I gazed upon her pale and much
wasted face I thought with regret how
careless on this little matter many of us
were that are well and able to do. As I
reflected an incident that came under my
notice a few years back came to my mind.
	After having left the “Exponent” office I
met a lady who asked to be directed there,
and then asked if she would be able to find
Mrs. Wells in as she was anxious to get a
copy of the paper, for she dearly loved to
read it.
	In much surprise I ventured to ask her
why she did not become a regular subscrib-
er, for it was easy to be seen she was a lady
of means.
	“I was a subscriber at one time,” she re-
plied, “but now the children are growing
up it seems they must have other reading.
Such as the “Exponent” and the Juvenile
are too dry for them, they must take
the New York Ledger.” She then men-
tioned other periodicals equally as trashy,
ending by saying with a heavy sigh‘ “You
see my expenses are very heavy.”
	I replied I thought they were, but in my
own mind I communed thus: “Horrors!
can it be possible that there are many moth-
ers in Israel in this dire condition?” Since
then, I regret to say, I have found many
just such cases.
	Years may come and go, I don’t think I
shall ever completely efface from my mem-
ory the vision of the sad faced mother as
she stood talking to me that day. And it

