A NEW YEAR'S GREETING.

	To the host of friends here and else-
where we offer our Happy New Year in
love and with best wishes for happiness and
prosperity during the year just entering
upon the threshold of Time. May it bring
with its varied seasons prosperity and peace
to the nation in which we live; may the
dark shadows which still linger in the
horizon of the year just past be quickly
dispersed and war no more like a bird
of ill-omen hoverover our fair land.
	Although the year 1898 opened aus-
piciously and civilization has made great pro-
gress along many lines, yet the war has
made terrible suffering and sorrow in tens of
thousands of homes the country over be-
sides the hardships, wounds and deaths of
the brave volunteers and soldiers them-
selves. Time alone can assauge the devas-
tation the war has occasioned, but even that
will not heal broken-hearted mothers, wives
and sweethearts.
	Utah was more fortunate than most other
states in this respect, and we know that our
boys and men who volunteered went forth
with the prayers and blessings and united
faith of thousands of the Latter-day Saints.
Yet many have returned home weakened
by fever and malaria, still we rejoice that
they are with us yet and hope for their
speedy recovery.
	The women of the Red Cross Society
throughout the land have done bravely and
here in our own state valiant work has been
accomplished; very little has been said or
published of these noble efforts put forth, in
philanthropic charity, bnt we know much
concerning it and how far-reaching it has
been.
	It is a matter of congratulation that
President McKinley mentioned the Red
Cross and its noble President, Clara Barton,
it is the first recognition of woman in the
message of a President of the United States
that we are able to recall. Let us hope that
it is a good omen for woman and that the
day so long looked for and so ardently de-
sired, when woman shall have her rightfnl
place in the annals of the nation, and in all
places and all measures that effect the wel-
fare of the people is not far distant.
	Would it could come to pass in Susan B.
Anthony's time or Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton's whose courage in advancing human
progress has been so marked for more than
half a century?

