MISS ANTHONY’S LETTER.

My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	I have before me your good letters of
Nov. 2nd and 14th, also several others from
women in Utah, all relative to the election
of Mr Roberts. The deed is done—the
women of Utah, as well as the men, voted
their party ticket regardless of the right
action of its Congressional nominee on the
woman suffrage question. Congress will
not reject him because of his disloyalty
to woman’s rights, and it is doubtful if it
will on account of his family relations;
but we shall see what we shall see!!
	If his influence in Washington is against
woman suffrage you must expose him right
along, just hold him to woman suffrage.
	Governor Wells’ word was splendid, give
him my kind regards, and also to each and
all of the Wells family. They are made of
good sterling stuff, and that is the kind of
people this nation most needs. The point
of Mrs. A’s letter was that the Utah Suf-
frage Association ought to publish an earn-
est protest against Mr. Roberts; that you
surely can do. Mrs. S. tells of securing an
expression from Mr. Roberts that he would
not oppose suffrage. Both seem very earn-
est for the honor of the women of the State.
I do hope all women, Mormon or Gentile,
will banish sectarianism or partisanshipism,
and talk and work and vote only for good
officials, regardless of church or party!
There are good and bad men and women in
all churches and all parties, and it is
only the good that should be selected for
official positions.
	Your women must learn from this elec-
tion the vital importance of their presence
in the very first nominations, for after the
nominations are made it is so very difficult
to persuade voters to stand there for any
save their own party nominees. But it will
take time to teach women. Why men have
not learned the lesson with a hundred and
more years of practice, then let us be patient
with women’s mistakes at the first and
second time of voting. What you need in
Salt Lake is a local council of all the differ-
ent societies and clubs; and then for the
officers of the council to make the move for
or against public measures or men, thus
acting for all the women of the city, Mor-
mon or Gentile, Republican or Democratic,
silver or gold—instead of as now, one
<p>arty protesting and all the others silent.


That morning session in Omaha when
the Local Council reported their work was
very impressive to me, and I am working
to get our Rochester women’s clubs and
societies to organize into a local council.
We cannot help suffrage in so speedy a
manner. We want women on the school
board, women on the board of city physi-
cians, etc., etc. For any one of our clubs
to move for the result would amount to
nothing, but for all of your associations
combined in a local association to make the
move would effect the thing desired. Cer-
tainly with you women who hold the ballot
in your hands!! So to combine the forces
of your women into one voice, one action,
is your great need. But it should be stated
by a call for a meeting signed by the presi-
dents of all of the most popular clubs.
Your suffrage society, like ours, should be
one of these, but not the first or leading
one. Here we have an Ethical club of
four or five hundred women, and I shall try
and get its president to lead off for the
council.
	Do you know I really believe if the suf-
frage clubs would quietly get behind the
scenes and work for such local councils we
would do an immense educational work. I
am going to try what it will do in Roches-
ter, that is sure. * * *
Lovingly and loyally yours,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
Dec. 5, 1898


