[Column 2]
Smith and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland that
a vote be taken to know if all present were
satisfied with each person present and will-
ing to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the full privileges of the
institution about to be formed. Vote was
unanimous.
	President Joseph Smith addressed the
meeting to illustrate the objects of the soci-
ety; that the society might provoke the
brethren to good works in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects of
charity etc., to assist by correcting the mor-
als and strengthening the virtues of the
community and save the Elders the trouble
of rebuking, etc. He proposed that the sis-
ters elect a presiding officer to preside over
them and let that presiding officer choose
two counselors; that he would ordain them
and let them preside over the society just as
the Presidency preside over the Church,
and if they needed his instruction, ask him
—he would give it from time to time. “If
any other officers are needed to carry out
the designs of the institution let them be
appointed and set apart. The minutes of
your meetings will be precedents for you to
act upon.” He then suggested the propri-
ety of electing a presidency to continue in
office during good behavior, or so long as
they should fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. E. A. Whitney and
seconded by Mrs. S. Packard that Mrs.
Emma Smith be chosen president; passed
unanimously.
	On suggestion of President Joseph Smith
the president elect made choice of Mrs. Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for counselors.
	The ceremony of ordination was then per-
formed, when President Joseph Smith re-
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,
what order to observe, how to regulate dis-
cussions, etc., etc., and concluded by say-
ing, “Do not injure the character of any
one; if members of the society shall conduct
themselves improperly deal with them and
keep all your doings within your own
bosoms, and hold all characters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. President Emma Smith
took the chair with her counselors.
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith, that the society go into
an investigation respecting what name it
should be called. Motion carried unani-
mously.
	President Joseph Smith and Elders John
Taylor and Willard Richards favored the
name Benevolent Society; Mrs. Cleveland
moved that it be Relief Society, and Mrs.
Emma Smith and Miss Eliza R Snow
argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
The discussion was lengthy and interest-
ing but the decision of the majority was in
favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice, and the
name selected and voted upon was Female
Relief Society.
	(The prefix female was many years ago
discarded by popular vote throughout the
entire organization.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was elected secretary and Miss Phebe M.


Wheeler assistant secretary, and Miss
Elvira A. Cowles treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said, “I now de-
clare this society organized with president
and counselors, according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into this society must be free from
censure and received by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting say-
ing he was much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart re-
joiced when he saw the most distinguished
characters stepping forth in a cause which
was calculated to bring into exercise every
virtue and give scope to the benevolent feel-
ings of the female heart. He rejoiced to
see this institution according to the laws of
heaven; his prayer was that the blessings
of God and the peace of heaven might rest
upon this institution henceforth.
	President Jos. Smith gave a five dollar gold
piece to commence a Relief Society fund
and said, “Whatever I do hereafter for
charity, I shall do through this society.”
	Sarah M. Kimball gave $1.00. Elizabeth
Ann Whitney 50 cts., Emma Smith $1.00,
Sarah M. Cleveland 12½cts., Willard Rich-
ards $1.00, Elder John Taylor $2.00.
	The names of the sisters present at this
meeting were Emma Smith, Martha Knight,
Elvira A. Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland,
Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook,
Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth Jones,
Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia
Robinson, Philanda Herrick, Phebe M. Wheel-
er and Sophia R. Marks.
	After singing “Come let us rejoice in the
day of salvation” prayer was offered and
meeting adjourned for one week.


