GONE TO REST.

	Sister Sarah Ann Sweet and Rawle died Dec.
12th, 1898, the cause of death being general
debili[-]y, she was born in Bristol, England July
20th, 1822. She was the mother of nine children,
three of whom survive her, she leaves a husband
eighty-four years old, one son and five daughters,
thirty-two grand-children and five great grand-
children to mourn her loss She was correspond-
ing secretary of the Morgan Stake Relief Society
twenty years, and secretary of South Morgan
Ward ninteen years; both offices she held at the
same time and filled them with honor. She died
firm in the Gospel with the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
				Your Sister in the Gospel,
							LYDIA RICH.
	MORGAN, Dec. 19th, 1898.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas our Father in Heaven has seen fit in
His Wisdom to call home the spirit of our worthy
and beloved sister Marie Olsen, who was born
August 9th, 1831, in Store, Lima, Veile, Amt. Den-
mark. We feel to give a few items of her life and
labors. Sister Olsen embraced the Gospel in the
old country, and emigrated to Utah in 1853, leav-
ing a good home and pleasant surroundings for
her religion. She passed through the hardships
incident to settlers in Utah at that early date,
settling first in Salt Lake City for a short time,
from there moving to Sanpete Co. where she
resided for many years, until the Castle Valley
Country began to be settled, when h[-]r husband
and herself were called to move to Castle Dale,
Emery Co., where she remained until death re-
lieved her of that dreadful disease, dropsy,
September 5th, 1898. She was President of the
Castle Dale Relief Society about four years.
	Resolved, that we the members of the Castle
Dale Relief Society hold in grateful remembrance
t[-]e aid she exercised in our Relief Society by
service contribution and counsel.
	Resolved, that we strive to hold fast to the
sacred covenants made with the Lord to the end,
and acknowledge his hand in all things as did
Sister Olsen.
	Resolved, that one copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved husband, one be placed on
the Relief Society Record and one be sent to the
“Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
			CAROLINE LARSON, Prest.
