AN APPEAL.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the 
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also 
individual subscribers indebted for the 
paper are urgently requested to settle all 
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the


management of the Deseret Evening News. 
The “Exponent’’ will not be sent to any 
subscriber after January 1899 unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due in 
addition to the printed matter. 
	In consideration of the value of the “Ex-
ponent’’ to the Relief Society, and because 
of the work it has done in the cause of suf-
frage as well as the general educational 
help it has given the women of this inter-
mountain country.it seems scarcely possible
that women should be so careless of their 
own interest as to let the paper languish for 
want of support, yet the fact remains, and 
it is impossible to say what the women will 
do in the matter. 
	With the Relief Society of 30,000 women 
if one tenth of the number would take the 
paper and pay cash down it could be carried 
safely, yet that has been looked for, hoped 
for and waited for in vain. What the “Ex-
ponent has done to keep the society in 
various Stakes and in different parts of the 
world in touch with each other is of more 
value than the few hundred dollars it would 
take to maintain it independently. Appeal
after appeal has been made through the 
columns of the paper and by those who are 
its faithful supporters in public and in pri-
vate, and yet the failure to come forward 
with financial aid. At one dollar per year 
it seems incredible that the sisters who 
have the cause of Zion at heart and know 
as many hundreds do know the generous 
help the “Exponent’’ has given in ways al-
most innumerable, should not immediately 
raise the necessary funds, through large 
numbers of aubscriptions. Besides the 
great need the Relief Society has for an or-
gan of its own, the silk industry needs it
quite as much and both should have its 
support through the liberal patronage of 
the women of Zion.


Lady Warwick among English women is 
an excellent public speaker, fluent, easy 
and pleasing.


