[Column 2]
tempered and a challenge was the immedi-
ate result of the interview. The affair was
to be private and each was to choose a sec-
ond. Naturally Harry chose Ned Dilli-
way and the duke one of his own men. It
was to take place the following day and the
night was spent in secret preparations for
the encounter. Ned Dilliway was reluctant
to serve as second but he yielded, believing
Harry to be so good a lance that he would
come off conquerer and all would be well.
However, he would not consent to its tak-
ing place on English ground, and so they
crossed the Channel. It was not an un-
usual thing for Ned to be away from home,
and neither Penelope nor her father
dreamed of any mischief brewing.
	The duel was fought, the duke escaped
without a scratch, but Harry was wounded
and Ned was obliged to carry home the
wounded man and bear the unwelcome
news to his father, who was so overcome
with rage and disappointment that he died
shortly after in a fit of appoplexy. Penelope
suffered untold agonies, she put her bridal
apparel away, determined never to go into
society again, but retire from the world of
pride and fashion. The duke went abroad
until the affair should blow over. Ned was
constantly with Harry Severn until he re-
covered sufficiently to go away on the con-
tinent, he was obliged to leave the service,
and within three years from that Christmas
eve things had undergone a great change in
the Dilliway house. Ned married Miss
Hester Cushing, Dick’s younger sister,
some years later, Harry Severn was
drowned at sea while crossing on the Medit-
teranean, during his convalescence which
had been slow and tedious. During all 
these years Aunt Dilliway had never seen
him, though her heart was constant and
had he not met an untimely death they
would have married. Duke Osmond came
back to England and fairly persecuted Miss
Dilliway but she sternly refused to see him
and they never met except by accident,
when she would be taking exercise in the
parks or suburbs, and then he was persis-
tent in offering her attentions, which she
obstinately refused when possible. She
sent back his letters unopened, refused gifts
sent anonymously and finally made up her
mind that it was impossible to live in Eng-
land.

	Such was Aunt Dilliway’s love story
told to us with all sorts of embellishments.
And no better object lesson could have
been given to a bevy of thoughtless, roman-
tic girls. It was little wonder that Aunt
Dilliway lived the life of a recluse with
such a past behind her. Ned Dilliway was
Pamela’s grandfather and both her grand-
parents and parents were then quietly sleep-
ing in the Dilliway cemetery. Pamela was
left an orphan when only six years old and
had been sent to her aunt in America who
was also appointed her guardian; but when
she became aware of the escapades and
treachery of Pamela’s governess she was
without doubt seriously alarmed. The
governess had been sent from England, in
care of the little girl and had been trusted
as one of the household. Aunt Dilliway
thought the wisest course would be to send
her into the country to her uncle in whom
she had great confidence. Pamela had been
fondly attached to Belmont, and was very
much grieved at parting from her; previous
however, to her going she had given the
girl sound advice, warning her against and

[Column 3]
sort of deception by telling her incidents in
her own experience.
	Shortly after our ramble among the hills
news came of the sudden decease of Penel-
ope Dilliway and Pamela left for Boston
with her uncle. We never saw her after
but heard of her return to England, and
through the Kingsley’s that her aunt had
left a very peculiar will and a letter ad-
dressed to her grand niece warning her
against the temptations of pride, vanity,
and above all coquetry, and the love of
dress and of admiration, setting forth elo-
quently her own mistakes in early life and
dilating upon her long years of suffering,
repentance and prayers for divine mercy
and forgiveness; imploring Pamela never to
practice deceit of any kind, but to be con-
stant, virtuous truthful and upright in all
things, which was the only safe course to
pursue and the sure road to happiness here
and hereafter.
	This love story briefly told should be a
warning to every vain and self-satisfied
young girl, who longs for attention and
admiration from the opposite sex, or from
the world; many innocent ones fall into
snares and are led astray through vanity
and inordinate pride. If girls could only
realize the untold misery and life-long sor-
row they would bring upon themselves and
their loved ones, they would assuredly pause
in their mad career and never allow their
good name to be tarnished by being called
a flirt.
	“Oh what a tangled web we weave
	When first we venture to deceive.”
							E. B. W.


