[Column 2]
meeting read and approved  The annual
report was read and accepted.
	President M. I. Horne of Salt Lake
Stake spoke words of cheer and comfort to
the sisters and bore a strong testimony to
the truth of the Latter-day work; encour-
aged us also to be diligent in our duties,
look after the poor, comfort the sick, and
for the mothers to watch over their children
and teach them to be pure and virtuous.
Spoke on the signs of the times. Asked
the Lord to bless the sisters.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon urged the
sisters to be faithful in attending their
meetings, said it was both a duty and a
pleasure, and to be punctual in meeting
at the time appointed, that the angels might
be waiting Spoke also upon humility and
kindness, to forgive each other. Said let
us try and bear our trials and be thankful
to the Lord that we have a place with His
people.
	President Pixton of Taylorsville was
glad that she was a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ and asked the Lord to bless
all the Relief Society. Told the sisters to
attend to their meetings and they would
get their reward.
	President Rawlins of the South Cotton-
wood ward Relief Society said she desired
to continue faithful in this great work, and
told the sisters to prepare for an eternal ex-
stence.
	Bishop Joseph S. Rawlins and Brother
Charles Holm thanked the president for in-
viting them to speak. In their remarks
they encouraged the sisters in their good
work, and stated that the Relief Society
was a great aid in assisting them in taking
care of the poor.
	President Carruth spoke of the newness
of the society, knew the sisters were good
and faithful in the society work. Thanked
the brethren and sisters for meeting with us.
	Singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Brother Charles
Holm.
		MARGARET CARRUTH, Pres.
SANDWICH ISLANDS.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Hawaiian mission held in the Laie
meeting house on Saturday morning, Oct.
8, 1898.
	Promptly at 9:30 the Hawaiian sisters,
together with the sisters from Zion, formed
in line and marched to the meeting house.
Meeting commenced at 10 a. m., President
Alice R. Woolley presiding. With her on
the stand were her assistants, Elizabeth C.
Williams, Jennie P. Musser, Ellen C. Cole,
Anna Kaulukou and Kapu Kou. Meeting
opened with singing “Joy to the world.”
Prayer by Luukia Pono. Singing on page
200 of the Hawaiian hymn book. Minutes
of the previous April conference read and
approved.
	President Alice R. Woolley spoke a few
words of welcome and encouragement, and
felt thankful to our Father in heaven for
His great blessings to us, that we were per-
mitted to meet together again under such
favorable circumstances, and hoped the
spirit of the Lord would be with us that we
may be able to receive the necessary instruc-
tions that would be for our best good at the
present time. Felt to rejoice greatly in the
work of God and urged all to be faithful
and seek diligently for the spirit of the
Lord that it may be our constant companion.
	Sister Kapo Kou spoke on the benefits of
the Relief Society and the purpose for
which it was instituted.


