TENDENCIES OF THE AGE.

	There never was a time in any age of the
world when there was such a tendency to
higher education and in every direction to-
wards progress and development along the
lines of activity, practical, mental, scienti-
fic and inventive in many, and indeed in al-
most all parts of the world, as at the present.
One must be very wide awake to keep in-
formed even on the lines that lie most in
one’s own practical way of thinking and
doing.
	There is less awakening in the spiritual
life of the people, the tendency being more
material than otherwise; the money ques-
tion has seemingly swallowed up much of
the religious nature of the world at large.
Wealth more than aught else is fast be-
coming, if it has not already, the most
potent influence in even religious circles.
Indeed money may be called the passion of
the age as well as the ruling power, and
“more’s the pity, and pity ’tis that it is so.”
	To be sure money or some exchange of
value or barter is necessary in this worka-
day world, yet when men and women have
this morbid craving for money, it seems to
absorb every wholesome element in one’s
nature and change the entire character.
	If a restraining influence could be
brought to bear upon character thro’ the
higher thought and education of which we
hear so much, that would tend to modifi-
cation in this direction, what a different
world this would be. Out of all the soci-
eties and organizations for information and
for equalizing conditions there seems no
combined force strong enough as yet to
overthrow the money power. Are the peo-
ple about to succumb to a materialism that
will tend to degrade and despoil the inheri-
tance of virtue and true nobility that has
been the proud boast of American civiliza-
tion?
	To guard against the spirit of extrava-
gance and luxurious living, even though
one has the wherewith to obtain it, is in-
deed commendable, especially if the means
is used to build up industries that will give
employment to the workers who are com-
pelled to live by wages, or salaries as the
case may be.
	Brigham Young’s ideas in this respect-
were almost ideal. To live simply and to
devote means to fostering industries that
would build up the community and lay a
foundation for generations yet to come or the
emigrants from other countries, that all
might have something to do.
	It is appalling to contemplate the future
of young people reared in indolence and
luxury, accustomed to the gratification of
every want, and without thought of any of
the sober realities of life; living for pleas-
ure and vanity. That ever work should be
considered degrading is a mistake. That
all are not adapted to the same sort of work
is true, and parents should not (in our
opinion) compel children to follow a pur-
suit that is particularly distasteful. But if
there could be something of a return to
agricultural pursuits in this Western land
it would be a blessing. Every farmer
might be a gentleman; subduing the earth 
is a commandment and there is yet much to
be done in this direction. What are our
boys to do when they are grown? is a
question often asked and seldom satis-


