[Column 1]
	The Hawaiian society was then represen-
ted by one of its officers. “The Lord is my
light” was sung very nicely by the Misses
Adalade and Madaline Fernandez.
	Sister Kaulukou gave a favorable and in-
teresting report of the work done in com-
pany with Sister Garff on the island of
Maui, and spoke of the Relief Society as or-
ganized by Joseph Smith. An encourag-
ing report of Laie society was given by
Sister Nainoa.
	Sister Kekuku and daughter sang "O,
my Father,” with pleasing effect. Sister
Annie Kou reported her labors in company
with Sister Kapili on the island of Hawaii,
spoke of the great interest that was taken
in some of the branches of that island.
	Sister Jennie Mnsser encouraged all to
remain steadfast in the work of God, and to
appreciate His blessings to us here on earth.
	Alemai was represented by the president
of the branch. Conference adjourned until
one o’clock in the afternoon. Singing from
the Hawaiian hymn book. Benediction by
Sister Nakoi.
	Afternoon session: Singing by the
Hawaiian choir “Truth has risen.” Pray-
er by Sister Kamaka Eleakala. Singing
"Hail to the brightness,” etc. Favorable
reports were given from eight branches of
the society of this and the adjacent islands,
all were in a favorable condition.
	Kekuewa Nakuaau spoke on the restora-
tion of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Sister
Minerva Fernandez gave a biographical
sketch of President Wilford Woodruff.
	Sister Cole said we had met to gain spirit-
ual strength. We all have much work to
perform. Woman’s mission here on earth
is a great one, her influence is great and
therefore all should try and exert an in-
fluence for good. Mothers should teach
their children the Gospel and set worthy
examples before them at all times. Her re-
marks were interpreted by Elder J. B.
Hooper.
	Sister Hattie Davis reported her labors in
connection with Sister Woolley on the is-
land of Kauai, the majority of the branches
of the society on that island were in a favor-
able condition.
	Sister Elizabeth C. Williams expressed
her pleasure in meeting in the Relief Soci-
ety conference, and exhorted all to search
the scriptures for light, for we cannot any
of us be saved in ignorance. Encouraged
the sisters to attend to their duties and put
themselves in a position that they can
claim the blessings that are promised unto
the faithful.
	The general officers of the Relief Society
of Zion and of the Hawaiian mission were
presented and unanimously sustained.
	President Samuel E. Woolley was pleased
with the good instructions that had been
given, and hoped we would make good use
of them in the future. Encouraged all to
continue in the good work.
	President Alice R. Woolley felt very
much gratified with the meetings today,
knew that the spirit of the Lord had been
with us for we had had a time of rejoicing
together. Spoke of her visit to the island
of Kauai, felt encouraged with the pro-
gress the sisters were making there. En-
couraged the young ladies to join the Re-
lief Society and assist in rolling on the
great work of God.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing from the Hawaiian hymn book.
Benediction by Elder Lewis R. Jenkins.

	Thinking perhaps that a few words

