[Column 1]
girl, who was also very delicate; she made
up her mind to send her into the country
for a while to her great uncle on her fath-
er’s side, Judge Kingsley. His wife had
no sympathy with girls who always wore
white muslin, laces and ruffles, and so sent
her to the school with the country girls, and
Pamela was not in the least punished. She
enjoyed it immensely, she knew she was
the best dressed girl in the school and her
city ways were very taking, but most of all
she was fond of telling what she knew in a
fantastic sort of fashion that was ever so
much better than any story book we had
ever read. One Saturday when we were
out in the woods for a ramble and had tired
ourselves climbing, the most romantic girl
in the crowd turned to Pamela and said,
“Do tell us about your Aunt Dilliway when
she was a little girl; you say she was a per-
fect beauty and a great belle in her day.”
	“Well, girls, Aunt Dilliway is so proud
that if she saw me here on the rocks spin-
ning yarns to you girls, she would have me
sent home by the first coach for Boston.
She’s old and grey now but she wears a wig
and paints her cheeks, and there’s a lovely
painting of her upstairs, and she’s even
been written about in books in London
when she was young and beautiful, and she
broke two or three men’s hearts, and then
she got her own broken.”
	“Served her right!” said two or three all
in a breath.”
	“No it didn’t,” said Pamela, “If you
knew what she suffered.”
	“How did you find out about her love
affairs?” inquired the one who had asked
for the story, and who in fact was all her
life getting people to tell her things she
meant some day to put into books.
	“Girls every one of you must promise
never to tell, for Aunt Kingsley wants a pre-
text to send me home, I know it, and if she
could find out about the things I’ve told
you girls, she would bundle me off in
double quick time.”
	Of course we all promised and then we
asked “How about the young men? tell us
about them.”
	“They all married afterwards all but one,
and he got killed, and Aunt Dilliway wears
the ring he gave her—now he’s dead, and
she has her white satin wedding dress all
trimmed with rich lace, hid away in a
cedar chest, and a long lace veil all em-
broidered in a nunnery.”
	“Oh, a nunnery! tell us about the nuns,
if there is anything mysterious we want to
find it out,” said half a dozen at once.
	The whole bevy of girls were wild to
hear about the nuns, but Pamela answered,
“My aunt didn’t know about the nuns, she
isn’t a Catholic, she’s High Church Episco-
pal, and sits every Sunday in King’s chapel
in a great, high pew, and makes me sit by
her, and I daren’t wink but I nearly fall,
asleep, and then she nudges me with her
great feather fan and whispers ‘Miss Pame-
la sit up.” ’
	“Who were your Aunt Dilliway’s beaux,
were they noblemen?”
	“They were gentlemen, one was very
courtly and handsome and brave and a fine
singer, and my aunt played the harp—the
very same one she has now up in the corner
of her boudoir covered with real tapestry.
I asked her about it one day and she said it
was an heirloom.”
	“How did you find out about all these
fine gentlemen and your great aunt’s love
stories, you say she never talks to you?”
	“Why from Belmont, the governess, you

