[Column 2]
	President E. L. S. Udall said, "We have
had a spiritual feast this morning. Confer-
ence will now be adjourned for six months."
	The choir sang and benediction was pro-
nounced by Brother Wm. Gibbons.
MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.
WEBER STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake, held in
the 3rd ward meeting house, Ogden, March
9, 1899, President Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Singing, "Come let us anew." Prayer
by Patriarch Thomas Morley. Continued
by singing "Come O, Thou King of kings."
Minutes of the December conference were
read and accepted.
	President Jane S. Richards hoped the
house would be crowded today, so much so
that all would realize the need of a larger
one, some had remarked that the sisters
were extravagant in wanting a house of
their own. Said she had seen many faces
since last meeting with us, but none were
so dear to her as the Saints of God. Spoke
of her visit to California and her meeting
with the Saints there, and of the holy,
peaceful influence that they enjoy in their
little meetings. It was indeed like a love
feast to drink in the sweet spirit that was
present, and to feel the firm hand shakes
and hear the fervent "God bless you" was
indeed a benediction. Many there who
long since left the fold were coming back to
us, which made her heart rejoice. She had
nothing but praise for the Saints of Cali-
fornia, such a spirit of unity was in their
midst. This same spirit was present with
us this morning, this was what we desired.
Some of the later words of our Lord and
Master were that we should "be one, as He
and His Father were one." Referred to
the Relief Society meeting held in the
Templeton, and the resolutions adopted
there on the observance of the anniversary
of the organization of the Relief Society,
and the annual membership fee to be col-
lected, and the need of the same.
	Brother D. H. Peery was pleased to meet
with the sisters, could endorse what sister
Richards had said in regard to the good in-
fluence that is felt among the missionaries
out in the world. Felt that the mission
of the sisters was great, but that they
would prove themselve equal to the duties;
they were more noble in purpose than were
the brethren. "Peace is almost leaving the
earth, men are losing faith in each other
and a spirit of malice and hatred is taking
the place of love. This is not right, we
should cultivate a spirit of charity and love.
We have come here to be hid in the cham-
bers of the Lord while His judgments are
abroad, and this should be a land of peace.
We are on the eve of the greatest events
that have ever transpired." Thought the
sisters should leave behind them a monu-
ment in the shape of a house.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the
sisters. Said to her the faces of the Saints
were the most beautiful picture she could
look upon. Her desire was to comfort and
bless the sisters. She had never had a
doubt of the divinity of this work, had re-
ceived a testimony when a child, and felt
herself the happiest person in the world.
"The Lord has been so merciful to us and
the Gospel is so grand and so glorious,
there is in it such an inspiration, a power,
a peace that the world knows nothing of.
It is a very foretaste of heaven, a preparing
for that change—the reign of peace—it is
so soul-satisfying that we have no room

[Column 3]
for hard feelings." In looking back to the
days of Kirtland and seeing the prophet and
the Temple, her soul was stirred and she
rejoiced more than ever in this grand and
glorious work. Urged the sisters to read
the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and
Covenants. "Let your children see and
hear you read them and know that you en-
joy them, and you and they will be blessed."
Referred to her own mother and her read-
ing of the Book of Mormon just previous to
her death, and the calm resignation she ex-
hibited when reading the words, "I bid
you all farewell," knowing that it was her
own as well as the prophet's farewell to
earth. Said we should never speak disre-
spectfully of the priesthood, nor allow our
children to. We should feel that we have
no trouble, everything is beauty, grandeur
and harmony, even the peace that passeth
all understanding. The prophet told the
sisters they were to bless each other. "Let
us banish from our hearts everything that
is evil, and just as we prepare ourselves to
receive blessings, so they will increase.
May the Lord grant unto us the spirit of
inspiration, peace, joy and everything
glorious through Jesus."
	Brother Joseph Hall had greatly rejoiced
in the remarks of President Zina D. H.
Young, and knew that upon her rested the
spirit of the prophet and of the living God.
The sentiments she had uttered were grand
and enobling. Gave good instructions and
exhorted all to faithfulness.
	Sister Mary Lightner felt that the spirit
of the Lord was present. "We as Saints
should set good examples, we are as a
light set upon a hill. Men have testified
that there is a power among this people
that they cannot fathom. We should honor
the priesthood of the Lord, remembering
the fate of Aaron and his sister, beware of
our doings, speak no evil, but live to be
worthy of every blessing that the Lord has
in store for us." Told of a recent visit
with a Josephite, who tried to prove that
Joseph was a fallen prophet, how she was
able by the Holy Spirit to refute the same
and prove that he was what we claim, and
that his prophecies were daily being fulfilled.
Bore a powerful testimony to the divinity
of this work.
	Sister Emily Richards believed that in
confessing our faults we gained a blessing
that we could gain in no other way. Re-
ferred to her recent sickness and the time it
had given her for reflection. Wondered
what good deed she had ever done without
some selfish motive. These sick seasons
are precious moments to us, in which we
approach nearer to our Heavenly Father.
While in this mood Sister Zina had visited
her, bringing with her the spirit of health,
which is in her very touch. Knew the
spirit of the prophet rested upon her, and
that she was "blessed above women."
Referred to the reading of the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants, and
the peace and joy such reading brings into
our lives. We should attend Relief Society
meetings and learn from our aged sisters
while they are still with us. Spoke of her
Washington experience and how the Lord
had aided her, that she had been able to
stem the tide of opposition that she had
met; also spoke of our sisters at the Wo-
man's Council, and the good they had
accomplished.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Bishop John Alred.
