RELICS.

“O! what shall we do with all of this stuff,”
	Said fair Estelle one day,
“Right here in this garret there is enough  
To fill one with dismay.
Sure in the new home there’ll be no room 
	For trash and rubbish like this.”
As I glanced around I knew my doom,
	So closed her lips with a kiss.
I smiled and quietly sent her away,
	For what would she think of tears,
That I knew would come while I should survey
	The hoarded treasures of years.
Yes, well may she ask what should be done,
	With dresses my grandmother wore,
Her o’d rocking chair and patchwork begun
	In the leisure hours of yore.

These scrapbags and bundles and old broken
		toys,
	Withered wreaths and baskets of flowers,
And the cradle where slept my girls, and my
		boys,
	Thorugh innocent babyhood hours.
This pile of old letters with histories rife,
	Ah! the burden of love they bear,
With tales of the brightest seasons of life,
	And of days bowed down with care.

This moccasin made for the fair first born,
	This shoe by the second one worn,
This christening robe with laces adorned,
	And bonnets all soiled and torn.
The relics of missions and travels abroad, 
	Books, chests and specimens, too,
Speaking now to my soul in voices aloud,
	Of scenes that have pass’d from my view.

This old fashioned bureau of native wood
		made,
	Is all that is left of the set
He gave me the morn of the day we were
		wed,
	With kisses I ne’er can forget.
Still here in its drawers are ribbons and lace
	Old jewels and gold-tinseled fans, 
That waved at grand balls with exquisite
		grace,
	While held in fair dimpled hands.

The identical waistcoat he wore for my sake,
	And this he wore that fair day—
Along with my gown of old fashioned make,
	Have long lain carefully away.
These precious mementoes of more precious
		days,
	To the flames must all be consigned!
Just so mortal joys will melt from our gaze,
	And souls must needs be resigned.


O, weak human heart we cling to this day,
	Make idols of earth’s fading things,
And follow the phantom that flitteth away,
	And pleasures that travel on wings.
O, help us our Father to took up to Thee,
	Seek joys that ever abide,
Those truths and that faith that never will flee,
	Whatever of ill may betide.
