VISIT TO CALIFORNIA.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	The souls of the Saints, especially the
sisters of the Relief Society throughout this
mission, have been made to rejoice by
reason of the fact that we have received a
visit from Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden.
During the latter part of December Sister
Richards accompanied her son, Hon. C. C.
Richards, and wife who were seeking health
and rest and came to Los Angeles. While
there Sister Richards visited the Relief
Society of the branch of the Saints of that
city and had an opportunity of seeing a lit-
tle how they were getting along, and of in-
structing them along the line of Relief
Society work as it is carried on in Zion.
	We have a good society in Los Angeles.
Sister Woollacott, now visiting her daugh-
ter in Salt Lake City, is the president and
she has a good company of officers and
members considering the size and strength
of the branch. They are devoted to the
work of the Lord and are faithful workers
in the society. The president is a good
leader among women and by her wise and
careful management and the hearty support
rendered by the society they have always
got money in the treasury with which to
assist the needy. Sister Richards did much
to encourage and strengthen them in their
noble work.
	About the 24th of January President
Franklin D. Richards honored us by a
visit to this mission and arrived in San
Diego, Sister Richards having reached there
a few days before. On the 26th they to-
gether attended the Relief Society meeting
which convened in the house of Brother
Charles H. Hoag, the branch president,
and though they were few in number, yet
when President Jewel had conducted the
opening services and Sister Richards pro-
ceeded in that wondrously kind and plea-
sant way so peculiar to her to tell them of
the trials and afflictions through which the
Saints had to pass in the days of the Prophet
Joseph and the early days of Utah, of the
blessings of the Lord that had been show-
ered down upon them as a reward for their
obedience and devotion, and of the present
standard of usefulness they have attained
through their untiring labors in the great
work, the sisters listened with rapt atten-
tion the while, the love of God enkindled
in their hearts, filling their souls with light
and joy and causing a sense of deep appre-
ciation of the Gospel to fill them such as
they had never before experienced. The
spirit of the Almighty accompanied the
words of dear Sister Richards in a most re-
markable way as she dwelt upon the earlier
scenes of the Church. President Richards
spoke words of comfort and blessing to all.
	On the Sabbath besides attending regular
services in the hall Sister Richards met with
the Primary Association at the home of
Sister Gabrelson, and there after the exer-
cises of the little ones, which were indeed
most creditable both to the children and to
Sister Buehorn who has charge of them,
she talked to these little ones until she won
a place in their dear little hearts that she
will retain while they live.
	After spending about ten days in that re-
nowned but greatly over estimated health
resort, San Diego, the party consisting of
President F. D. Richards, Sister Jane S.
Richards and their son Charles and wife re-
turned to Los Angeles, the latter on their
way to Utah, while the president and wife

