		BY IDA HUSTED HARPER.

	The life and work of Susan B. Anthony
is far more than the recital of one woman’s
experience, even though that woman be the
most interesting personality of the  century.


It is a history of the great evolution of the
status of woman, in which Miss Anthony
has been the central figure. It pictures the
struggle to obtain the right for woman to
speak in public; first in behalf of the slave,
then in the interest of temperance, and at
last for her own freedom,for laws to secure to
herself the control of her own property, her
wages, her person and her children. Then
follows the long continued battle for equal
educational advantages and equal industrial
opportunities, and last and longest of all for
the citizen’s right to the franchise.
	The work consists of two large volumes,
copiously illustrated with over fifty portraits
of Miss Anthony and her colaborers, en-
gravings of her different homes, old Quaker
meeting house, and a large number of let-
ters and autographs of distinguished men
and women. The facts and dates of each
chapter have received Miss Anthony’s per-
sonal approval; and this is the only authen-
tic biography of her that ever can be written,
as the letters and documents will not be ac-
cessible to other historians. This work fol-
lows consecutively the history of one of the
greatest woman reformers. The early
chapters describe her ancestry, home, child-
hood and life in a Quaker boarding school,
the last told in her own quaint letters and
diaries. Later chapters depict her experi-
ence as a teacher related in her own charact-
eristic letters, the moving to Rochester by
canal in 1845; evolution from schoolroom
into pupil life,then follow:—Early Laws for
Women; History of the Bloomer Costume;
Canvass of the State of NewYork in Sleigh;
Anti-Slavery Work with Letters from Gar-
rison, Greeley, May, Gerritt, Smith, etc.;
Campaigning with the Garrisonians; The
Mobs; Letters from Phillips, Curtis, Pills-
bury, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, the Fosters and Others; The Marriage
and Divorce Question; The War and the
Woman’s Loyal League;Reconstruction and
Fight over Fourteenth Amendment; Kan-
sas and George Francis Train; Publishing
the Revolution; Fiftieth Birthday Celebra-
tion and Poem by Phoebe Cary; The Mc-
Farland Richardson Case; Victoria Wood-
hull;Arrest and Trial for Voting Under the
Fourteenth Amendment; Beecher-Tilton
Trial; The Woman’s Fourth of July in 1876;
Ten Years on the Lyceum Platform; A
Year in Europe; Appealing to Congress
for Thirty-Three Years; Suffrage Amend-
ment Campaign in Eight States; Practical
vs. Theoretical Religion; Pronounced Opin-
ons on Vital Questions: Thirty Years' Ex-
perience with Political Conv ntions and
Pa ties; Gathering of the Anthony Clans in
1897; Final Triumphs, Honors, Tributes,
etc.


We should always keep a corner of our
minds open and free, that we may make
room for the opinions of our friends. Let
us have heart and mind hospitality.

	Miss Olive Schreiner positively refuses to
see an interviewer. To a young reporter
who approached her on her African farm
she said:
	I heartily condemn the modern interview.
A person is ensnared into a light and
superficial colloquy upon a subject which
demands deep thought and mature reflec-
tion. If a man or a woman has a message
to issue it cannot be uttered forcefully in
one of these "interviews." ‘‘Interviews’’
are abominations which accentuate the per-
 onality at the expense of the principle.


