REORGANIZATION.

	Minutes of a special meeting called to
fill the vacancy made by the death of our
late president, Sarah M. Kimball, held in
the vestry of the ward meeting house,
March 7, 1899.
	There were present Stake President An-
gus M. Cannon, Relief Society Stake Presi-
dent M. I. Horne, and her counselors, An-
nie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon and
others, also Bishop Jos. Morgan and Coun-
selor Nephi Morris.
	Meeting was opened by singing “Oh
say what is truth.” Prayer by Nephi Mor-
ris. Continued by singing “Guide us O,
Thou Great Jehovah.” Sarah A. F. Price
was nominated and sustained to act as secre-
tary for the meeting.
	Bishop Jos. Morgan explained the ob-
ject of calling the meeting, to effect a re-
organization of the 15th ward Relief Soci-
ety, a vacancy being caused by the death of
our late president, Sarah M. Kimball. He de-
sired to be guided by divine power in what
was done today. Spoke of the efficient
assistance given by the Relief Society to
the Bishopric.
	President M. I Horne followed with a
few remarks, Spoke in high terms of the
ability of our late president, Sarah M. Kim-
ball. Referred to the first organization and
the instructions given at that time by the
prophet, Said that it was wonderful the
amount that was gathered in in small sums
contributed by individuals. Desired the
influence of the Holy Ghost to guide us. 
Said every virtuous woman ought to be-
long to the society.
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke of the
help given to the ward, Stake and Church
by the Relief Society organizations. Said
that all members should be virtuous and
that God would reveal sin to those who
were righteous.
	Sister Harriet A. Badger was then nom-
inated and unanimously sustained as presi-
dent of the 15th ward Rellef Society.
	Sister Badger accepted the office, and
said she would do the best she could to dis-
charge her duties faithfully. She chose
for her first and second counselors respective-
ly, Mary E. R. Gray and Janette S. Griggs.
Both were unanimously sustained. Sarah
A. F. Price was nominated for secretary and
Mary W. Gray for treasurer. Both were
unanimously sustained as such.
	The officers were then set apart by Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, Bishop Jos. Mor-
gan and Nephi Morris. Meeting was
closed by singing “Lord dismiss us with
Thy blessing.” Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
