FANNY C. LOVELAND DEAD.

	Many of the friends and acquaintances of
Mrs. Fanny C. Loveland will be sorry to
hear of her death. She died Sunday morn-
ing, November 20, 1898, at Bountiful of
old age and general debility. She had been
confined to her bed about three months and
ailing all last summer. She was Carlos
Loveland’s mother, and sister to Lucina
Sessions, Samantha Willey, Rosoline Dustin,
and stepmother to Emarett Sessions.
	Deceased was born in the state of Ver-
mont on May 11, 1816, thus making her
eighty-two years of age. She was but a
mere girl when her father’s family joined
the Church and moved to Geauga county,
Ohio, to join the Saints there in 1836. At
the age of twenty-one in the year 1837 she
was married to Chester Loveland, who pre-
ceded her to the great beyond by about
fourteen years.
She passed through all the persecutions
of Kirtland, Ohio, Jackson county, Missouri,
and Nauvoo, and endured the hardships en-
countered crossing the plains, and arrived
in Utah with her husband in 1850, and lo-
cated in Bountiful. She buried a son four
years old while on her way across the plains.
	She went with her husband and others
who had been called to settle Carson Valley
where they remained from 1856 to 1857.
After her return she resided most of the
time in Bountiful with the exception of a
few years that she resided at Brigham City
and Calls Fort respectively.
	When the Relief Society was organized
at Brigham City August 28, 1866, she was
chosen second counselor to Sister Lenora
Morley. After Sister Morley’s death she
was appointed first counselor to Harriet
Snow, which position she held until the or-
ganization of Box Elder Stake.
	She was the mother of eight children,


four of whom are still living, three boys
and one girl.
	Funeral services were held at the Sessions
House, Tuesday afternoon at 4 o’clock.
The speakers were Elders C. R. Jones
Madsen, of the Salt Lake Temple, Joseph
L Holbrook, W. W. Willey, D. O. Willey,
Thomas Wadoups, Israel Call, Judson Tol-
man and John A. Waite. The remains were
taken to Calls Fort Wednesday morning,
where funeral services were held for the
benefit of friends and relatives who could
not be present at those held in Bountiful,
and the remains were laid to rest at that
place. Quite a number of relatives and
friends accompanied the remains to Calls Fort
Deceased has been a subscriber for the
“Exponent” from its first publication un-
til her death. She was an earnest worker
for the cause of truth, possessed an excel-
lent character and was especially noted for
being a “peace maker.” Her prepossess-
ing face wore a sweet smile which scattered
sunshine and happiness to all who mingled
with her.
