A CHRISTMAS THOUGHT.
   
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all old
accounts at the earliest date possible. This
becomes an absolute necessity on account
of the change that takes place in the man-
agement of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899 unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due in
addition to the printed matter.

	In consideration of the value of the“Ex-
ponent” to the Relief Society, and because
of the work it has done in the cause of suf-
frage as well as the general educational
help it has given the women of this inter-
mountain country,it seems scarcely possible
that women should be so careless of their
own interest as to let the paper languish for
want of support, yet the fact remains, and
it is impossible to say what the women will
do in the matter.
	With the Relief Society of 30,000 women
if one tenth of the number would take the
paper and pay cash down it could be carried
safely, yet that has been looked for, hoped
for, and waited for in vain What the “Ex-
ponent” has done to keep the society in
various Stakes and in different parts of the
world in touch with each other is of more
value than the few hundred dollars it would
take to maintain it independently. Appeal
after appeal has been made through the
columns of the paper and by those who are
its faithful supporters in public and in
private, and yet the failure to come forward
with financial aid. At one dollar per year
it seems incredible that sisters who have the
cause of Zion at heart and who know as
many hundreds do know, the generous
help the “Exponent” has given in ways al-
most innumerable, should not immediately
raise the necessary funds, through large
numbers of subscription. Beside the great
need the Relief Society has for an organ, of
its own the silk industry needs it quite as
much and both should have its support
through the liberal patronage of the women
of Zion.


There are two things in which we should
thoroughly train onrselves—to be slow in
aking offence, and to be slowed in giving it.


