[Column 2]
bloomed the beautiful flower of love. They
plighted their vows at the altar in 1867,
against much kindly advice from the friends
of both.
	In 1866 while they were dreaming their
love dreams, some of the doctor’s friends
and admirers of the poetess collected and
published a few of her choicest poems, a
copy of which has been read by the writer.
	It was fondly hoped by her friends that
under these new and happy conditions her
songs would soar higher, grander, purer
and be as much more beautiful as heaven is
than earth.
	But alas! for dreams of fame or love!
This brilliant and gifted mind went out
even as a lamp to utter darkness. The
surging, dark river had engulphed it! And
oh, sad is the spectacle of a loved one living
yet dead.
	The sorrowing husband of a year accept-
ed with resignation the blank life stretching
out before him; his brightest hope could find
no fruition this side of the grave. And his
life became like a beautiful poem telling of
devotion, patience, long watching and soli-
tary prayer. All earthly power was brought
to aid in her restoration, but to no avail.
By his side he decided she should remain,
under his own care. So for twenty years,
and even till he was called to cross the
bright river of which she wrote, he was
true to his charge. Some of their dreams
were realized. A wedding trip to Ohio,
then a short visit to California, whose beau-
ties enchanted her and she wrote,

Cheer for the queen of the Western wave!
			California!
Where the sunbeams walk on a golden pave,
And the moonlight hides in a silver cave,
			California!
Where the day that comes to this land of ours.
Finds the brightest gems and the rarest flowers,
Where the lingering day when it must depart,
Leaves the last red pulse of a broken heart,
			California!
	This visit over then to their home his
thoughtful love had provided for her where
she still lives, never knowing that the great
love of a lifetime still burning on its altar
has gone forever from earth, leaving her a
widow who knows not of her great loss.
	His was a grand and noble nature. Lov-
ing little children dearly he made them his
friends, always speaking so kindly to them.
Thus I remember him in the Long Ago.
	One of her friends, Mary V. Young, who
also was my friend and has herself long
since crossed over the river, told me the sad
story, pointing out to me the house where
Miss Carmichael passed her girlhood days.
Often we spoke of her, musing over the
wreck of such a promising life. After her
husband’s death the last poem written by
his gifted wife was found pinned over the
heart whose weary beatings were soothed at
last.
	To know no loss, no pain, no hope, such
is her life. Yea, the ways of God are in-
scrutable and past finding out; but the light
of eternity will reveal the secrets, the de-
signs and the conditions of this life.
	I would that here she might sing a new
song; and I fancy that over on the other
shore she will change the words of the old
poem for new ones and say,

Down by the river,
The bright flowing river,
	That flows to eternity’s sea;
I kneel to the Giver,
To God the Good Giver
	Whose love is ever o’er me.

[Column 3]
Not cold is it, nor dark is it,
But glad as my heart it is—
	Swift flowing river sublime—
Many ships come over it,
Gladly sail over it— 
	This strange, sad river of time.

Now down by the riverside
The golden sand riverside
	Thank God for my life and me!
You have prayed for us, prayed for us
And solemnly said for us
	“God guides them safe over the sea.”

Calm is the rivertide
The bright, golden rivertide
	That shall give my lover to me.

O’er the wide river
The cold rolling river
	That ever flows on to the sea,
I shall greet my fond lover
My true fond lover,
	Who ever is waiting for me.

And over the river
The smooth flowing river
	Where my lover is waiting for me, 
We’ll praise the Good Giver,
Our God the Good Giver
	Through ages unknown of eternity.

	It is to be regretted that her book has
gone out of print. The Stolen Sunbeam,
The Wounded Bird, Faith, President
Lincoln’s Funeral, with California are
among her gems.
			LYDIA D. ALDER.
	December, 1898.


