[Column 1]
THE BOSTON TEA PARTY. 
	It seemed very fitting that the Massa-
chusettes state society, Daughters of the
Revolution, should observe the 125th anni-
versary of the “Tea Party day” at the old
Hancock Tavern in Corn court. For in
the very room where the plot was concocted
so many years ago the multitude of guests
was received by the state regent, Miss Sarah
E. Hunt.
	From 2 to 5 o’clock the narrow passage-
ways, the stairways and rooms were
thronged with people, all filled with the
spirit of ’73,if one could judge by their utter-
ances, and all proud of their revolutionary
ancestry.
	The large apartments of the olden time
have been divided up into smaller ones by
partitions, and in several, of these members
of the various Chapters throughout the
state served tea from tables daintily decor-
ated with yellow chrysanthemums and
lighted by buff candles with blue shades.
They wore their hair powdered and dressed
with high shell combs, and over their
shoulders wore kerchiefs in old time style.
	Souvenirs consisting of tiny boxes of tea
tied with ribbons of the continential buff
and blue were given to all the guests. The
ladies of the committee were Mrs. C. P.
Heath, of Lynn, and Miss Mary C. Sawyer
of Wellesley, who were greatly assisted in
their duties by Capt. Wadsworth of the
tavern.

	The room where the guests were received
is a queer old place, though the ancient
rafters are now hidden behind a ceiling of'
plaster. On one of the walls is the follow-
ing inscription: “In this room the Boston
tea party made their plans and dressed as
Mohawk Indians, and went to Griffin
(now Liverpool) wharf, where the ships
Beavor and Eleanor and Dartmouth lay,
and threw overboard 342 chests of tea, Dec.
16, 1773." On other parts of the wall are
quaint old paintings representing the differ-
ent scenes for which the house is famous.
The most remarkable of these decorations is
the old sign bearing a portrait of John Han-
cock, which for many years swung over the
courtyard. The tavern was called for him
in 1780, when he was made Governor.
This sign was blown down a number of
years ago, and is said to have killed a man
passing through the yard. The picture is
somewhat broken, but otherwise the figure
upon it shows quite plainly.
	History credits the old Hancock Tavern
with having been the temporary abiding
place of all the early statesmen and men of
note in the colony. The original house on
the spot was erected as early as 1631. Be-
sides the older worthies the present house
has sheltered Lafayette, Louis Philippe,
Talleyrand and many others.
	In the eventful years preceding the revo-
lution the tavern was a frequent meeting
place of the patriots. Not only was the
throwing over of the tea planned there,
but many other plots were made to discom-
fort the British and help the cause of the
colonies. At one time not so very long ago

