[Column 2]
Library.” It is one of the best philan-
thropic, educational benefits that could
come to those living in isolated communi-
ties where good books are not obtainable.
All the clubs in the Federation are expected
to contribute their quota of money and of
books. The work is in the hands of a
committee of ladies, of which Mrs. Helen
D. Moore is chairman.
	Woman’s Work, is a Southern monthly
magazine published in Montgomery, Ala-
bama, business manager, Evelyn Fitz-
patrick. The journal aims to disseminate
the best ideas of club women. It is being
ably conducted and promises, if one can
judge from the few numbers that have been
issued, to fill a void in the South, where
few women have as yet entered into the
spirit of club work that is permeating the
whole country. We are grateful to Wo-
man’s Work for mentioning the “Exponent”
and in connection with it the silk industry
in Utah. May Woman’s Work become a
power for good in the land, and the women
of all sections join hands and co-operate for
the good of all, casting aside the geographi-
cal lines of distinction, until by custom they
shall become obliterated in mind.
	Mrs. Hannah J. Bailey of Winthrop
Centre, Maine, is en route to California and
will pay Salt Lake a visit on her return trip
in March. Mrs. Bailey is the treasurer of
the National Council of Women of the
United States, and (of course) one of the
General Board of that great society to
which the National W. R. S. and the Y.L.
N. M. I. A. are connected. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor both
being vice presidents of the council by vir-
tue of their positions as presidents of these
National associations. Mrs Bailey is a wo-
man of great executive ability, and will
find a loving welcome in our city from the 
ladies who have such pleasant remembran-
ces of her genial manner and kindly face.
Mrs. Bailey manages a large manufactur-
ing business in Maine of which her husband
was proprietor previous to his decease a
few years ago; she is also superintendent
of the World’s W. C. T. U. and associated
in other organizations of public interest.
We trust her brief stay among us will be
a pleasant leaf in her wayside notes of her
journey from the coast.


