[Column 1] 
ways at Penelope's disposal and no ques-
tions were asked. Mr Dilliway saw Plymp-
ton come and go often, and thought his
plans were working well; for the Lieut. 
had gone and of the difficulty between the
young men he was totally unaware. Oc-
casionally the old duke came and made
himself officiously familiar and Mr. Dilliway
chaffed Penelope unmercifully about her
old lover; but she kept her own counsel
and took no one into her confidence except
her brother Ned and Honore. And the
winter passed away with only a few house
parties here and there, the Plympton’s and
Dick Cushing would gladly have escorted
Miss Dilliway anywhere, and she had the
entree into the best society, for her beauty
and her voice were almost marvelous;
wherever she went she attracted great at
tention, and the young men in her set were
wild in her praise.
	The old Duke of Osmond died very sud-
denly at last, although his death had been
long talked of, and Charles Plympton the
rightful heir, very soon came into the estate,
assuming the name and title. Mr. Dilli-
way rested secure; to all appearances Charles
was in proud possession of the field, and he
began to urge his daughter to prepare for
marriage settlements, and to purchase
bridal apparel. It was not difficult for Miss
Dilliway to dissemble. Honore thought it
all right and Ned did not object, now that
he felt sure she would be true to Harry,
and Mr. Dilliway spoke of the affair in the
most positive way. The young Duke was
so elated with his newly acquired honors,
and Penelope was so amiable with him,
that he was deceived by appearances into
believing that she was to be his wife though
her manner was always distant and haugh-
ty. He felt he had none of a lover’s privi-
leges, and yet he was so vain and selfish
that he did not take it to heart. There had
really been no courting, but Charles had an
idea it was the proper thing among people
of rank to show no sort of weakness.
	Mr. Dilliway made up his mind the wed-
ding should take place in June and Honore
had given the duke to understand her mis-
tress had consented. And she also added,
“Everything is ready except the legal mat-
ters which can be arranged when the time
comes.”
	Ned was in communication with Harry
and had informed him that his father had
consented to Penelope’s marriage in June
and that he would be ready, and when the
final settlements were to be made Penelope
would be firm in her resolution to marry
none but her own true lover, and his father
tho’ reluctant would certainly consent to
her choice at last and all would be well.
Ned also informed him that Plympton was
sweet on Lady Eliza, eldest daughter of
Duke Weldmore and in fact showed her
marked attention and if he ascertained the
true state of his sisters affection he would
soon console himself by espousing Lady
Eliza, who was really a very proper young
person and had always been accustomed to
wealth and refinement, and would make a
very elegant duchess. 
	Harry Severn was too much in 1ove to
wait until sent for, and hurried up to Lon-
don two or three weeks before he was ex-
pected; when hearing from his old friends
that Penelope Dilliway was engaged to
Plympton became so enraged that he called
upon him at his own place, and proceeded
forthwith to accuse him of winning his
sweetheart’s affection. Both were hot-

