[Column 2]
prospered under his reign, and at his death
was succeeded by his son Corom.
	Corom was a good king all his days, and
he died at a very advanced age, when his
son Kish ascended the throne. Nothing is
known of his character, but at his death
his son Lib succeeded him.
	Lib lived many years, was blessed with
a numerous posterity, and the sacred his-
torian Ether writes: "Never could be a
people more blessed than they, and more
prospered by the Lord.” They greatly ad-
vanced in the arts of civilization, they im-
proved in the manufacture of goods, agri-
culture and mining. When Lib died he
was succeeded by his son Hearthom.
	After Hearthom had reigned twenty-
four years the kingdom was wrested from
him and he was held in captivity the re-
mainder of his life. Nothing is known of
his character. For some time the kingdom
was ruled by usurpers.
	The next rightful heir to the throne was
Aaron, a son of Heth and a grandson of
Hearthom the king. He, with his grand-
father and father Heth and his son Amni-
gaddah, and his son Coriantum also, were
kept in captivity by the usurpers, but in
after years the kingdom was reconquered
and the dynasty restored.
	After a lengthy war Com, the son of
Coriantum, regained possession of the king-
dom. At this time it was divided, one
half being governed by Amghid, but after
a desolating war of years Com gained
power over the whole realm. While he
was king robber bands began to appear and
sought to destroy the kingdom. Com
fought these bands valiantly without suc-
cess, for the people generally were in sym-
pathy with them. Many prophets were
sent of the Lord who foretold the destruc-
tion of the race if they did not repent of
their wickedness. But they heeded not
the voice of warning, their words were re-
jected and the wicked Jaredites sought the
lives of the men of God. The king pro-
tected the prophets and while they were
with him they prophecied many things for
his comfort, and he was blessed of the Lord
the remainder of his days. He lived to a
good old age and was succeeded to the
throne by his son Shiblon.
	(Continued.)


