TRIENNIAL NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	A delegation of ladies will go from Utah
to attend the Triennial of the National
Council of Women to be held in Washing-
ton early this month, and will be there in
time for the preliminary or prefatory meet-
ing to be held Saturday evening, the 11th
of February, at the Arlington Hotel where
the Council will have its headquarters dur-
ing the time of the Triennial.
	On Sunday women ministers of
different denominations who are in attend-
ance at the Council will probably be invited
to speak in some of the churches in the city
as they usually are, or have been in the past.
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
and the Young Ladies National Mutual
Improvement Association are affiliated with
the National Council and will send dele-
gates, or rather, technically speaking, a
proxy for the president and one delegate
from each organization. The president of
each society affiliated is vice-president to
the Council proper, and all business that
pertains to the Council is referred that she
may act in reference to it, either in person
or by correspondence or telegram.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young and Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor are by virtue of the office they
hold vice presidents. The presidents and
delegates are the only ones who have votes
except the general officers of the society,
and in their absence or non-attendance the
president is represented by proxy, and the
delegate by an alternate who vote in their
place.
	Patrons of the Council have no vote,
though they have all other privileges; they
may attend all business meetings, partici-
pate in discussions and have the privilege
of the floor, but cannot vote as they have
no constituency to represent. Annual con-
tributors are admitted to the same privi-
leges as patrons. To become a patron one
must be recommended as a person of influ-
ence and standing in society by some one to
whom she is known and who is herself
known to the Society. The fee for patrons
is one hundred dollars down, and for an-
nual contributors five dollars a year. There
are several ladies in this city who are annual
contributors, though very few patrons.
	The National Council is certainly a most
dignified body of superior women; they
hail from all parts of the United States
and Fraternal Delegates have come from
other countries to the Triennial at each of
its regular sessions and also to its business
session.
	In Washington in 1895, at the second
Triennial, the Countess of Aberdeen and
Lady Henry Somerset were both upon
the platform as speakers with many other
distinguished women writers and orators.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston,
president of the George Washington Mem-
orial Association, made a magnificent
speech at the executive meeting in Omaha
in October at one of the public sessions,
also Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, who repre-
sents the Florence Crittendon [-]ssociation.
It is to be regretted that more Utah women
cannot attend the Triennial, as it is most
educational in many ways.
	It was confidently expected at the session
of 1895 that the next Triennial would meet
in an upper and lower house as the Con-
gress of the United States does, but so
many things have since transpired to hinder
the progress which the Council expected to
make that the idea is given up for the pres-
ent, although not abandoned.


Mrs. Mary A. Dickinson, who was elected
president of the Council in 1895, and who
was certainly well qualified in every respect
for the position, after two years was com-
pelled to resign by order of her physician,
and after much persuasion and entreity
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, the former presi-
dent, was induced to accept the office for
the unexpired term. Mrs. Sewall is, and
was at that time, vice president of the Inter-
national Council, which is composed of
National Councils, as the National Council
is of National Societies or Associations.
Mrs. Sewall has been nominated for the
next president of the International Council,
and will without doubt be elected. The
present incumbent of the office is the
Countess of Aberdeen.
	A new president, therefore, will be elected
at the coming Triennial, and this will be a
very important feature of the Triennial.
Probably no woman in the United States is
better qualified (if as well) to hold such
a high position as Mrs. Sewall, but the ladies
must be content when they know one of
their own country women, an American,
has been sought for and honored with a
higher place, to preside over many collective
National Councils from several different
countries, speaking different languages,
some of them ladies of rank and title, yet
Mrs. Sewall is their acknowledged peer,
nevertheless.
	The members of the Council are proud
of the distinction Mrs. Sewall has justly ob-
tained, and fully appreciate the honor it is
to American women.
	We ardently hope Mrs. May Wright
Sewall will be the representative from the
National Council of Women to the Paris
Exposition, and Congress will be petitioned
to make this appointment, and with a mil-
lion of women one would think Congress
could scarcely refuse to give this organized
work a woman representative.
	Mrs. Bertha M. Palmer will probably be
appointed to represent the work of the wo-
men of the United States. Such an appoint-
ment for her has been applied for—but so
far there is no positive assurance of it, al-
though there is scarcely a doubt with re-
gard to Mrs Palmer’s appointment.
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
will probably be represented by Mrs. E. B.
Wells, proxy for president, and Mrs. Zina
Y. Card delegate, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas,
alternate delegate. The Y. L. N. M. I. A.
by Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, proxy for
president, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow delegate,
and Miss Ann M. Cannon alternate to dele-
gate and member of Resolution Commit-
tee. Mrs Susa Y. Gates as speaker, sub-
ject, “Status of Hawaiian Women.” Mrs.
E.B. Wells’ subject will be “Good Citizen-
ship.”
	It is also expected that Mrs. Lucy B.
Young and Mrs. Elizabeth McCune will go,
as both are patrons of the National Council.


