[Column 2]
	The stormy weather was a hindrance to
the members arriving in time, although
eight of the Utah ladies arrived in time to
attend the business session Saturday eve-
ning, the 11th. The following day there
was a blinding snow storm which kept
pedestrians within doors and very few car-
riages appeared on the streets. The papers
published the names of all the ladies who
attended church, the weather was so in-
clement. Snow continued to fall during
the night and the wind increased in violence
and on Monday morning there were only a
few to attend the opening of the Council.
Business of importance, however, was
transacted and lunch served in the rooms
in the church at a nominal price. The
storm had been continuous thro’ the day
and the wind blew fiercely, and when the
time for adjournment came the query was
how to get to hotels or boarding places.
Carriages with drivers that dared venture
out were taken by those who could get to
them first, and some living only a short dis-
tance ventured to walk at great risk. Such
adventures as were told in the papers after-
wards had never before transpired in Wash-
ington. On the streets men with handker-
chiefs over their faces were buffeting the
snow and wind, their hats flying hither and
thither.
	Some of the subjects considered and
papers read were "Christianity as Related to
Sociology," dealing with the practical side of
religion, by Mary Perkins Davis, Ocean
Park, Maine. “The Possibilities of Wo-
man,” by Martha Horne Tingey of Salt
Lake City, Utah, a paper which showed
earnest thought and advanced ideas of life.
“The Social Conscience, in its Relation to
Industrial Problems,” by Mrs. Maud Nath-
an of New York City. It is one of the vital
questions of the present day and the speak-
er showed earnest feelings in her dealings
with the matter in question, and that she
was thoroughly acquainted with industrial
conditions, and dealt eloquently and heroic-
ally with actual facts. “The Tree of
Knowledge of Good and Evil," by Miss
Sadie American of Chicago was perhaps the
most unique as a whole of any paper pre-
sented. Miss American is very original in
her work and deals mainly with actual facts
in a positive manner. "The Retrogression
in Equal Rights,” by Susan B. Anthony,
who never fails to make strong points in
the most forcible manner, and who is al-
ways in touch with her audience and never
fails to create enthusiasm whatever views
people may entertain as to the subject mat-
ter of her address. “The Beginning of
Literature and Art in America,” by Mrs.
Maria Purdy Peck of Dubuque, Iowa, was
a charming address on a delightful theme.
St. Hilda of Whitby—“How Abbesses
were Educators and Civilizers,” by Mary
Newbury Adams, was one of the most
delightful and soulful papers given, the
speaker herself, a most charming woman;
but one hesitates to particularize where there
were so many capable, cultivated, intellec-
tual women. "Good Citizenship," by Mrs.
E. B. Wells of Utah. “Is the Church
Universal a Hindrance or a Help to the
Development of Womankind?” by Eliza-
beth B. Grannis of New York.
	The papers for discussion were of very
great interest, especially upon vital ques-
tions. One of the subjects was “Is Ex-
pansion for the Best Good of our Country?"
Affirmative, Judith Ellen Foster, District of
Columbia; Negative, Cornelia S. Robinson,
New York. The same evening “The Wo-

[Column 3]
men of Hawaii,” by Susa Young Gates, a
very ably written and exhaustive paper on
the conditions, customs and ethics of the
natives, and some expression of real life by
Hannah Kaepapa, the pretty custom of
the laie was given in an object lesson on
the platform by seven very handsome
wreaths being presented to the ladies of the
general officers by Mrs. Gates and the
native lady. Mrs. Sewall, the president,
Dr. Shaw, the vice president, and the
other officers gracefully acknowledging the
courtesy by wearing them the entire eve-
ning. “Equality, the most Potent Conserv-
ator of Human Rights,” by Ida M. Weaver
of Idaho. "Fraternal Life Benefit Societies
as Social Institutions,” Bina M. West,
Michigan.
	There was also a Symposium on "What
should be the Attitude of the Women of
the United States toward the Peace Confer-
ence proposed by the Czar?" This awak-
ened universal interest and was eloquently
emphasized and elaborated by Rev. Anna
Garlin Spencer of R. I., Carrie Thomas,
Alexander, Ill., Kate Waller Barrett, D.
C., and Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, Penn.
“The Relation Between the Council and
Peace and Arbitration," by Rev. Amanda
Deyo, Penn., was one of the most interest-
ing in the general discussion. “How can
Women Aid in Municipal Reform?”
These discussions were all very educational
and carried on sympathetically, each speak-
er having a certain number of minutes.
	Reports of organizations were also of
great interest and much appreciated, as
they showed the growth and progress of the
various associations during the period since
the last Triennial in 1895. These were
from the following societies: National
Free Baptist Woman’s Missionary Society,
Mary G. Osgood, New Hampshire: Uni-
versal Peace Union, Rev. Amanda Deyo;
Working Woman’s Home Association Dr.
Mary E. Green, Michigan; The Woman’s
National Press Association, Ellen S. Crom-
well, D. C.; Florence Crittenden Missions,
Kate Waller Barrett, D. C.; National Wo-
man’s Relief Society, Zina Young Card,
Utah; Wimodaughsis, Ada G. Dickerson,
D.C.; National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity, Elizabeth
B Grannis, New York; National Woman’s
Christian Temperance Union, Lillian M.
N. Ste ens, Maine; Supreme Hive Ladies of
the Maccabees of the World, Lillian M.
Hollister, Michigan; Rathbone Sisters of
the World, Ida M. Weaver, Idaho; Nation-
al Mutual Improvement Association, Min-
nie J. Snow, Utah; National American
Woman’s Suffrage Association, Rachel
Foster Avery; National Council of Jewish
Women, Hannah G. Solomon, Ill.; Nation-
al Association of Women Stenographers,
Mrs. Maddox; Anti Vivisection Society,
Mrs. Lovell, Quincy, Ill.
	There were reports from local councils
and state councils affiliated, and fraternal
delegates introduced from organizations and
councils not yet affiliated; also reports of
standing committees which were quite as
interesting as those of society work. Com-
mittees on Education in Citizenship, by
Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, New York,
and Press Committee, Susa Young Gates,
Utah. On Social Peace and International
Arbitration, Hannah G. Solomon, Ill.
	The ideas, aims and grasp of knowledge
embodied in these addresses and reports and
the discussious which intervened, the in-
formation and instruction given, and the
educational facilities afforded, are far great-


er than one can possibly imagine who has
not been present in person, with mind and
soul susceptible to the uplifting influences
that flow from high intellectuality and in-
telligence of a superior order. The value
of the National Council cannot be estimated,
the movement of this great body of women
of diverse views and opinions, and a great
variety of dissimilarity of tastes and char-
acteristics coming together on the momen-
tous questions of the day and agreeing to
disagree, is an object lesson for the world.
	The letter of Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson,
the president during this last Triennial un-
til forced by her illness and the protestations
of her physician to resign, was one of the
striking features of the session, in its pathos
speaking heart to heart, and its expressions
of what the Council would have been to
her had she not from force of circumstances
been obliged to withdraw from the position.
	The address of the retiring president Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, bristled with original
ideas and suggestions, as also did her “Rec-
ommendations to the Cabinet.” One might
write columns upon this subject, but as it
will be published in full for circulation
among members of organizations belonging
to the Council, all who wish will have an
opportunity to study its contents.
	The resolutions adopted, which were the
chief work of its committee, and the plans
laid out for the future furtherance of the
Council's work during the next three years
we must leave for the next issue of the
paper, also much that is interesting in mat-
ters not practically essential to the Council
itself, as well as the blockades, blizzards,
delayed trains, and minor items.
	The two living presidents who have filled
terms of office were made Honorary Presi-
dents with a vote. They are Mary Lowe
Dickinson and May Wright Sewall.
	The new officers elected were, Prest.,
Fannie Humphreys of New York City;
Vice Prest., Maria Purdy Peck, Dubu-
que, Iowa; Cor. Sec., Mrs Kate Waller
Barrett, Washington, D. C.; Rec. Sec.,
Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer, R. I.; Asst.
Rec. Sec., Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake
City, Utah; Treasurer, Hannah G. Solo-
mon, Chicago.
	Members of the Cabinet are not yet ap-
pointed, nor any new standing committees.
The idea of grouping the societies under
certain departments has been advanced
and may be acted upon. The next busi-
ness session will be held in November of
the present year at Indianapolis, Indiana.
	Meantime the International Council in
London will hold its Quinquennial, and the
National Council of the United States will
have its quota of representation Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, the late president of the
Council will be installed as president of
the International Council. Miss Susan B.
Anthony and Dr. Anna H. Shaw are the
delegates from the National Council.


