[Column 2]
the Church, numbering in all about thirty
thousand sisters. Sister Richards said Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young who now presides
over the society in all the world, would be
pleased to hear of an organization in Omaha
where they suffered so much years ago.
“Although few in numbers you will not re-
gret being organized or miss the time spent
in the performance of duties. Meet together
as often as possible, once a week or once in
two weeks. Your principal duty will be
to care for the poor and needy, to adminis-
ter to the wants of the sick. Follow the
example of the Savior who cared
for all that were in need. At-
tend to those in need of assistance whether
they are of the house of Israel or not.” A
vote was called showing that all the sisters
present were in favor of being organized.
	Bishop Barton then spoke. He was
pleased to be present on such an occasion
and endorsed the remarks of Sister Rich-
ards. As a Bishop in one of Zion’s wards
he could appreciate the work of the Relief
Society. He said, “The sisters can do
more for the sick than the brethren, and I
have told the sisters in the ward where I
live that we could not get along without
them.” Said he often attended their meet-
ings and rejoiced at seeing the good they
accomplished. Related the saying of James
how faith and works go together. Bless-
ings were pronounced upon the Omaha
sisters by Brother Barton, in taking up
their work as a Relief Society.
	Sister Ellen Barton then added her testi-
mony. She had felt strange in Omaha un-
til meeting with the Saints on Sunday and
enjoying with us the spirit of the Gospel.
She spoke of the love and strength of spirit
it imparted to the sisters to work unitedly,
and the good that could be accomplished by
their doing the will of the Father. Refer-
ence was made to the sewing meetings the
society have at home, and how the poor
were provided with quilts, etc. She asked
the Lord to bless the sisters, and said she
knew they would find the work a pleasure
and of great benefit.
	President Richards said his feelings had
been expressed by the previous speakers. It
was with pleasure and thanksgiving that
he met with the branch of the Church in
Omaha. The object of the organization
about to be effected was to do good in time
of sickness and misfortune. The Church is
not to support us, but we must work to
build up the Church. The Relief Society
was not organized or brought into existence
to make offices for some one to fill, but for
the perfecting of the people and for the re-
lief of the distressed. It is not only a mat-
ter of dimes and dollars, but to administer
with kind words and deeds to the afflicted
of all people, for we are all of one royal
family. If we live up to the covenants we
have made with God He will bless us as
we need and we will realize some benefit of
the spirit. One of the prophets has said we
realize the gifts after trials. Said the next
step would be to select officers. He named
the officers necessary and said we wanted
those whose heart and soul was in the
work, and those who could work unitedly.
A person is not fit to be in office until he is
willing to be a servant. He mentioned the
necessity of keeping strict accounts and rec-
ords of the proceedings. He asked God to
direct in the selection of officers.
	Sister Richards related some of her ex-
perience in regard to office and thought
that had it not been for the work it seemed

[Column 3]
her duty to do in the Relief Society she
would not be alive today. She said we
were not here for our good looks but to be-
come good. The sisters were then given
the privilege of selecting one of their num-
ber for a president. Sister Weeks nomina-
ted Sister Addie Stone but she declined.
Caroline Tromler named Mary M. Miller
for that position. Sister Miller expressed
willingness to do her duty. Mary E. Blixt
made the motion that Sister Miller be sus-
tained as president, which was seconded by
Mary M. Weeks. The question was then
voted upon in the affirmative by all pres-
sent. Sister Miller chose Mary E. Blixt
as her first and Addie S. Stone as her second
counselors these names were put before the
meeting in their proper order and were sus-
tained by unanimous vote Sister Clara M
Fredricksen and Mary M. Weeks were
named for the secretaryship but for accept-
able reasons each declined. Ida A. Peterson
was then nominated for secretary and was
elected by united affirmative vote.
	Caroline C. E. Peterson was chosen and
voted in as treasurer of the society. Annie
K. Gregerson was unanimously sustained
as assistant secretary.
	Sister Richards then made a few remarks,
instructing the officers to go ahead with the
work, the counselors to share the responsi-
bility with the president Thought it
would be a great help to the association to
take the “Exponent.” The teachers of the
society may be selected at the next meet-
ing. Asked the Lord to bless us all. Sis-
ter E. B. Wells regretted that she was not
present at the fore part of the meeting,
but some delay in obtaining directions
caused her to be late. She was pleased to
meet the Saints. Called attention to the
blessing the Omaha sisters enjoyed in hav-
ing an Apostle and a Bishop at this meeting.
She recalled the past when she taught
school here nearly fifty years ago. She
told how helpful the Relief Society had
been to the Church and said its power
would increase.
	The officers of the Omaha society were
then set apart to their respective callings
under the hands of President F. D. Richards,
Bishop Barton and Elder Hatch. All present
then sustained each other as members of
the society. Benediction was pronounced,
by President F. D. Richards.
