[Column 2]
From the tops of the Arc de Triumph one
gets a view of fairyland.
	The Bon (good) Marche (market) is situ-
ated in the old portion of the city, the Latin
quarter, not far from the palace and beauti-
ful gardens of the Luxembourg, and while
there are other fine establishments of the
kind in Paris, the Bon Marche seems to 
hold the power of attracting the masses.
It draws all classes, from the peasant to the
princess of noble blood, and the fact that if
one should purchase under the stress of
strong temptation something which in one’s
cooler moments would prove unsatisfactory
or an unwise extravagance it could be re-
turned and the money refunded, has done
much in building up the enviable reputa-
tion of the house.
	The establishment of the Bon Marche,
specially constructed for a dry goods busi-
ness, is the largest, best organized and best
fitted up in the world. It contains all that
experience can suggest for convenience and
commodity, and is one of the most remark-
able sights of Paris. In 1863 Aristide
Bouciaut became sole proprietor where he
had entered ten years previously as partner.
He was certainly a man of the highest com-
mercial intelligence, but what contributed
to the success and to the immense increase
of his business was his spirit of enterprise,
the rectitude of his character and his great
benevolence. He not only founded a
powerful business house, he founded at the
same time a great humane work, a social
institution. He did not merely content
himself with the realization of profit, he ap-
plied himself above all to merit the confi-
dence of the public by universally acknowl-
edged integrity. He was supported by a
staff of superior employees, chosen with
care, governed paternally and organized
according to a just rule which accords ad-
vancement for services rendered, and per-
mits each one to aspire to the most im-
portant positions.
	The Provident fund founded by Aristide
Boucicaut, the Retiring Pension fund
founded by his wife and the Relief and
Pension fund premit all employees to await
with confidence the days of old age, while
many of them have purchased shares in the
business.
	The moral and intellectual condition has
not been neglected. Free evening classes
comprising the study of the English lan-
guage, vocal and instrumental music and
fencing have been instituted for their bene-
fit. Every year the most assiduous among
the pupils following the English classes are
sent to London at the expense of the house
for a period of six months to perfect them-
selves in the English language. A doctor
is engaged by the house and free consulta-
tions are given every morning at nine
o'clock. Women in confinement are
allowed one hundred francs (twenty dollars)
to defray the expense of a nurse.
	The Provident fund is supported by a
sum deducted annually from the profits of
the business. All employees in the house
five years become participators in its bene-
fits. Each member has an individual ac-
count opened in his or her name and is pro-
vided with a book indicating exactly the
amount to the credit of each one. This
amount is further increased by an annual in-
terest of four per cent on the individual
capital. Any lady clerk contracting mar-
riage, even though she leave the establish-
ment, is entitled to the full amount to her
credit. In 1876 the fund commenced with
a capital of 62,000 francs, which in 1895

[Column 3]
had increased to 2,286,215 francs, not in-
cluding the amount paid out to the various
participators.
	Madame Boucicaut after her husband’s
death, wishing to carry out his idea and to
provide for those who contribute to the suc-
cess of the Bon Marche, instituted the Re-
tiring Pension fund, endowing it with the
modest sum of 5,000,000 francs from her
personal fortune. Two hundred and thirty
old assistants have now actually retired and
are receiving pensions amounting to
216,000 francs per annum. It is a life pen-
sion and varies from 600 to 1500 francs per
annum.
	Employees called on for military service,
if on their return they can show an irre-
proachable military certificate, are re-
installed in their former positions.
	The picture and sculpture gallery is for 
the purpose of enabling artists to exhibit
their work free, thereby assisting many a
worthy person to enter into business re-
lation with the numerous patrons of the
Bon Marche. Copies are not accepted, only
the original works can be admitted. The
Bon Marche submits all offers made to the
artists, and demands neither hanging fee
nor pay of any kind.
	In the reading room (salon de lecture)
the French and leading foreign newspapers
are at the disposal of all visitors, as well as
abundant writing material, and every day
the immense table which extends from one
end of the long room to the other is sur-
rounded. Some are writing letters home,
some reading and others simply resting.
	Yes, and one needs a rest if one has tried
to enter at the main entrance about three
o'clock on a bright afternoon in the spring-
time as I did several times. The crush is
truly something awful. One is simply car-
ried along by a restless, surging tide of
femininity, and the noise, the buzz, the in-
cessant chatter, the per[-]ume, the tropical
garden of hats in a constantly moving pano-
rama, the magnificent display of dry goods
of every color and kind under the sun and
distributed about with a reckless prodigal-
ity that is exasperating to the woman of
limited means who for the time being de-
sires nothing so much as a pocketbook
equal in size to that of the Count of Monte
Cristo, is something to remember. What a
bewildering, artistically arranged mass of
everything calculated to attract, from the
poor working girl up, up to the ultra
fashionable woman, what woman could
leave the silk skirt department where they
are spread out before one by thousands, a
perfect rainbow of colors, beautifully made
and trimmed with ruffles, flounces and lace,
without a pang of regret.
	The entire building is mostly glass, for
the whole four sides are windows and the
roof is glass. Every window is a small
room in size and the goods so attractively
arranged as to be a poem in itself.
	The horses and delivery wagons are oh
the same gorgeous order. The horses are
sleek, fat and well groomed with harnesses
mounted with gold, the wagons red and
gold and black and gold, and there were
thirty-six wagons and about one hundred,
and fifty horses. Every morning about
eight o’clock they passed down the Rue de
Cherche Midi on their way from the stables
and it was a pleasing sight. I used to
watch for them and think how well they
were matched. Of course all did not leave
the stable in the early morning, the rest
were sent for as they were needed through-
out the day.


The Bon Marche differs from our dry
goods houses in that they have no cash girls
or boys. Every separate department has
its own desk and cashier and every time
a lady makes a purchase the clerk waiting on
her accompanies her to the desk where her
parcel is wrapped and she receives her
change, if she be so fortunate as to have
any coming to her.
	The crush in 1900 will doubtless be
greater than ever and the goods distributed
about with a recklessness never seen before,
therefore when we all go over to the Ex-
position let us do as Shakespeare so delight-
fully advises, “put money in our purses,"
for we shall be tempted as we never were
before, not only to purchase the where-
withal to enhance our natural attractiveness,
but in other departments such as bric-a-
brac, pictures, china, carpets and drapery,
table linen and drawn work and a thousand
and one other things too numerous to men-
tion.
	If I am lucky enough to put money into
my purse I’ll meet you all there and pilot
you to the very choicest spots in the whole
building.
S.L.


