DAVIS STAKE.

	Minutes of the Davis Stake Relief Soci-
ety conference held at East Bountiful Jan.
26, 1899, President Susan Grant presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.” Prayer by
Patriarch Judson Tolman. Singing, “How
great the joy that promised day.” Present
from Salt Lake City were Sisters Elizabeth
J. Stevenson and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. 
	President Grant said, “I wish to welcome
President Lizzie Smith and the young ladies.
I am pleased to have them meet with us in
conference. 
	Minutes of forenoon session of previous
conference were read and approved. Re-
ports read and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the meeting.
She fully realized what a great privilege it
was to meet together. We sisters had had
this privilege only since the Prophet Joseph
Smith had organized the Relief Society.
It was the duty of every sister to attend
these meetings and prepare herself for a
higher probation. “When I hear of so 
many going into forbidden paths I wonder
if the mothers have done their duty.  It is
just as necessary for our sons to be virtuous
as for our daughters. We should take an
interest in our sons and daughters, make
home pleasant and provide suitable amuse-
ment for them. The spirit of God cannot
dwell in unholy places.”
	Patriarch John Kynaston said, “I do re-
joice in being here. I feel full of the spirit
of the Lord. What we have heard has
been dictated by the spirit of God. If you
put these things into practice the Lord will
bless you. I say unto these young sisters
you will be blessed in bearing the sons and 
daughters of God. The Lord wants this
people to become one, and prepare the way
for His coming.”
	President Lizzie Smith said, “It affords
me great pleasure to see so many of the
brethren present and to be with you. I
think it is nice to join our societies, as we
all expect to be Relief Society workers at
some time. I was not born when the
Prophet was killed but I think it made an
impression on me. I think children are
influenced very young, even before they
are born. If the mothers would go to the
Lord with their troubles instead of the
neighbors, it would be a great deal better.
My advice is for us to put into practice the
many good things we have heard. I ask the
Lord to bless us all.”
	Bishop Egan said, “I have been pleased
with what I have heard, I think it has
been dictated by the spirit of God. We
have different influences to contend with,
the good and the evil. We should be on
our guard so we will not give way to the
evil influences. It is very necessary and it
is our right, if we live for it, to have the
spirit of discernment.”
	President Susan Grant said, “I have been
very much pleased with the remarks. I am
sorry President Hess was not able to meet
with us, but he sent his blessing.”
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction by Brother Clark.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Praise to the man.” Prayer by Brother
Duarden. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Minutes of previous after-
noon session read and approved.
	President Grant said, “I am pleased to
see so many present, may the blessing of

