HERBERT KITCHENER

	Away in far off Africa is a vast stretch of
country known as “The Soudan.” It lies en-
tirely within the tropics and reaches right
across the continent from the Atlantic Ocean
to the Red Sea. While there are, of course,
imaginary limits north and south, its actual
boundaries so far have not been really fixed.
	A large portion of Africa has come under
the “spheres of influence” of different
European nations. By sphere of influence
is meant that “large areas of land in Africa
are recognized as under the control of
European powers. * * * It designates the
region that may be occupied and developed
by the power for which it is named.”
	This great region of country, the Sou-
dan, is largely inhabited, not only by its
native tribes of the negro race but by wild
tribes of fanatical Arabs. For many years
a civilizing influence was brought to bear
upon this wild country, and at last in 1881
Soudan was under a civilized government.
To be sure there were many imperfections
in the administration of affairs, as of neces-
sity there must be under the circumstances.
But trade flourished. Khartoum, the capi-
tal, occupied an important position at the
junction of the White and the Blue Nile.
It became a business center for European
as well as Egyptian commercial firms.
Trade was facilitated by steamers plying
the river. Communication with the outer
world was maintained by post and by tele-
graph, and just when all seemed going well
a war cloud gathered and burst, ravaging
the country and spreading devastation.
	General Gordon, the famous English
soldier, had been Governor-General of the
Soudan for two years, 1877-1879, and dur-
ing that time he had stamped out the slave
trade. As a consequence the slave dealers
felt oppressed. In 1880 Gordon left the
Soudan to act as adviser of the Chinese
government in its relations with Russia.
It was during his absence the strife broke
out.
	We must now for a moment turn our
attention to Egypt. In 1876 the Khedive
of Egypt who had been working to get his
country conducted on modern principles,
found himself practically a bankrupt. He
had to have help from foreign nations.
French and English capitalists loaned large
sums of money, and England and France
sent experts to try and save something and
help “carry on the country.” In 1878 an
Englishman and a Frenchman were ap-
pointed to high offices in the government.
In April of the same year they were dis-
missed by the Khedive. Two months
later the Khedive was deposed by the

