A VOYAGE OF LIFE.

Once on a time in the days that are olden,
	 “The dear, dead days of the beautiful past,”
When our hearts were light, and our visions
		golden
	Then love seem’d to fill the universe vast.

We sent our ships forth over perilous seas,
	With their precious freight bound for havens
		fair,
And the sails unfurl’d in the tremulous breeze,
	Signals of triumph, to do, and to dare.

Many proud vessels came back heavy laden,
	With cargo of precious jewels full store;
And only a few were with storms o’er take,
	And stranded, or lost on a dang’rous shore.

The pilots were cautious, the vessels built strong
	Storms might rage fierce in midst of t[-]e ocean;
Yet bravely they sailed, tho’ the voyage was long;
	Their trust was in God with faith and devotion

But clouds have since dark’ned the sky that was
		clear,
	And many new dangers threaten the way,
The mariner sailing has much more to fear,
	For treach’rous signals, tempt vessels astray

Yes, the ocean of life has chang’d in its cour[-]e,
	No longer may youth go sailing secure,
They’re met by an enemy, oft with such force
	Their bark must ride fea[-]lessly if they endure!

More beacon lights warn them of drifting ashore,
	More signals, more trumpets sound the alarm
Yet wrecks of life’s voy’gers increase more and
		more,
	How shall we save them from coming to harm?

Can we turn back the tide that’s set in so strong.
	Wrecking the vessels just put out to sea?
O have we been guiltless of error and wrong?
	How shall we answer in worlds yet to be?

O, let us by Faith light a beacon so bright,
	That its rays may shine forth from shore to
		shore,

And the wand’rers bark in a perilous night,
	May find its way safe, tho’ the wild waves roar.

Let Love be the Shibboleth now evermore,
	“Pass the word down the line, ’afar off and near
Truth be our armor, till Life’s voyage is o’er;
	And white wings of Peace, our vessel shall
		steer.
							E. B. W.


Women are to the fore in educational
matters in Colorado. Out of the fifty-nine
counties in the state, twenty seven have
women superintendents of schools and
every school board has one or two women
members.


Snow-flakes are falling, so softly so white,
I fancy they’re whispering to my heart to-night;
So pure and so sweet through the darkness of
	even,
They fall at my feet [-]ike a message from heaven.
I fancy them letters the angels have thrown
From the windows of heaven and watched them
	come down.
And then as they spread their pure folds o’er the
	sod,
They seem like a letter—a message from God.
Put over its surface in sparkles of gold,
His unfailing promise to mortals is told.
That under the fold of this soft, sunny glean
He guards the life-buds of the beautiful Spring.


