[Column 2]
the city, county or state where one resides!
Faith without works when one is surround-
ed with dangers that threaten destruction,
is not likely to be very efficient.
	If a turbulent stream of muddy water
were leaping and raging in one’s onward
way one would not hesitate to strike out
boldly to prevent its further progress, in
whatever manner seemed possible. The
women of today who have agitated the 
rights of the ballot see dark clouds in
the horizon of the future, in fact the turbu-
lent stream of immorality is making tremen-
dous strides, shut one’s eyes to the fact as
one may. And all this work cannot be ac-
complished at the fireside, where the found-
ations are laid. Mothers teach virtue, hon-
esty, integrity and uprightness in the home;
the boy or youth goes out into society and
into the wide, wide world and what hap-
pens? Many broken-hearted mothers
know. It is not perhaps possible to have
an ideal civilization with all the adverse in-
fluences of the age to combat with, but it is
possible that better laws and their enforce-
ment might be beneficial, and certainly the
experiment is worth trying. Women have
ideas of matters in business and domestic
life that are helpful and acceptable to men,
why may they not have practical ideas of
government and law-making? And they
are not asking for the kingdom nor for the
whole commonwealth, only to share in the
struggles for right and partake of its
benefits.
	Women are told by “the lords of crea-
tion” to be domestic and submissive like
their grandmothers in the past, but they
need to be reminded there were women
in the past whose names are handed down
in history as illustrations, who rebelled
against the injustice of the laws and condi-
tions as their descendants do in the present
day.
	Read the early history of New England
and you find many expressions of determined
opposition to the existing laws. The moth-
ers of the country surely have some rights
that should be recognized more than they
have been in the past. Abagail Adams of
revolutionary fame, in writing to her hus-
band upon this subject “even threatened to
foment rebellion unless the rights of her
sex were secured, and declared women
wouid not hold themselves bound to obey
any laws in which they had no voice or rep-
resentation.”
	It is true women have influence in many
directions, and yet the ballot is more potent
still, for it means power. It is not expect-
ed that woman’s ballot alone can revolution-
ze the country, but the exercise of suffrage
in the hands of the best men and best wo-
men must of necessity produce a manifest
difference and a decided change a few gen-
erations hence, or perchance sooner; at any
rate it is pleasant to hope so. But it will
take moral courage to stand for the highest
ideals in government, though one cannot
but believe it helps even to work for better
conditions, though defeat and not success
may often be the result, eventually the
right will triumph if persistent warfare
against wrong doing is waged and main-
tained.
	The women of these intermountain states
are privileged as no other women are, and
appreciating this they should also accept
the responsibilities it implies, and carry the
burden if such it be, hopefully and march
on to victory—the triumph of right over
wrong, light over darkness better, condi-

[Column 3]
tions for the masses and a more enlightened
humanity.


