[Column 2]
	Counselor C. C. Bartlett reported Uintah
Stake, they have a good wheat country,
five branches of the society have each a
good granary and the wheat stored is of a
good quality and in good condition. They
hold conferences twice a year, they try to
impress upon their children that they must
make themselves useful in life. “It is three
years since we were visited in our Stake,
although last year we had Sister Gates, who
came in the interest of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	President Annie R. Duke of Wasatch
Stake said she had only been elected a short
time, their former president, Sister Emma
Brown, having passed away she had been
called to the position of president and hoped
to fill the place with credit, but felt she
knew very little as yet, but would try to do
all in her power. She had visited around
the Stake since her appointment.
	Cassia Stake was reported by Sister Rol-
lins; the president was a very capable wo-
man. In traveling around they had to go
over a mountain to get to the other side
where one part of the sisters lived. Their
president had never yet missed attending
one conference since they were organized.
They were trying to do their part well.
	President Emma J. Bennett said, “We
make our visit among the sisters a pleasure
trip. We have twenty branches, we travel
with the authorities of the Stake and we al-
ways have a good time, our sisters are dili-
gent and united as well as energetic. We
want to do our share and assist the General
Society, we have been talking of a Stake
granary.”
	Star Valley was reported by Sister Sarah
Ann Burton. “We have a good band of
sisters, we do not have the best of grain,
but we have a mill now, which is a great
blessing to the people. We are just begin-
ning in our Stake to save grain, we have
many early frosts but we intend to perse-
vere and do our part in whatever is under-
taken by the General Society. We are
blest in having an abundance of strawber-
ries and small fruits. We have nine wards,
it takes three days to visit those fartherest
off.
	Sister Maggie Hull sang “Glory to God
on High,” the Temple choir joining.
	President Julia P. Lindsay of Bear Lake
Stake made an excellent report of the work
done in the society in that locality, and the
good spirit prevailing in their midst. She
felt the importance of the organization and
the great blessing it had been to the wo-
men of Zion, earnestly urged the sisters to
train their sons and daughters in the ways
of the Lord and exhorted all to good works.
	President Elizabeth Fox of Oneida Stake
was very much pleased with the instruction
given by the leading sisters, spoke par-
ticularly of their efforts in storing grain, in
Franklin they had over a thousand bushels
and a small granary but had concluded it
was best to put their wheat into the grist
mill and the mill pays them interest on the
grain. Sister Fox spoke of the change
made in their Stake so that it had not so
many branches, some wards having been
taken into the new Stake recently organized.
She also urged the sisters to take the “Ex-
ponent’’ and to read it, expressed her own
appreciation of its helpfulness; thought it
wrong not to support our own paper.
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake
referred to the good singing and realized
how much it added to the spirit of the
meeting. In their Stake they always had
good singing and interspersed it between
the speeches at their conferences. Referred


with sympathetic feeling to the death of
President Paxman, he had truly been a
father as well as a leader to them all in
Juab Stake. Sister Pitchforth spoke in a
very interesting manner of the good work
of the society, felt proud of their labors, re-
joiced in the Gospel and felt to press on- 
ward.
	Sister Maria Crosby spoke for Sevier
Stake, thought all were trying to do what
they knew to be right and ministering to
the needy. They had a good, energetic,
capable president.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the mission given her by President Young
to establish silk culture, and entreated the
sisters to put out mulberry trees and raise
cocoons. She thought we were too indiffer-
ent about these things and did not half con-
sider what the Lord had placed on the
daughters of Zion. Realized the brethren
carried heavy loads and so did the sisters.
Sister Zina remembered how Brother Joseph
looked when he plead with the sisters to be
faithful to the society and not commit the
sin of ingratitude, thought his words were
sweeter than honey in the honey comb.
“Do teach the daughters of Zion to do what
is right, to have confidence in their fathers,
and teach them how to get strength in the
hour of trial, and to draw near to the Lord,
it is their only safety.”
	Brother Huff of St. George, read an arti
cle on silk which he had prepared for publi-
cation, after which President Young spoke
upon silk again, her great desire to see it
established and for young women to take
hold of it, and closed her remarks by say-
ing she was thoroughly committed to the
silk industry.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of the
young women, how glad she was to see
some in the conference, to hear Wasatch
reported by Sister Annie Duke who said
she only knew about the Young Ladies
Association when she was called to preside
over the Relief Society of the Stake. She
felt that young mothers needed just the in-
struction they could get in the Relief Soci-
ety, knew it would be good for them to
come and hear the experienced mothers
like Sister Zin[-] and such women as they
had heard today. She rejoiced in days
gone by when she could listen to women
who were wiser and loved to hear them in
their meetings, Sister Eliza and Mother
Whitney and those who were older, there
should be younger women in the society,
we need their help and they need us. Sis
ter Richards spoke of the house for confer-
ences and use of the General Society. Said
if a little was given in from all the settle-
ments it would soon accumulate, we could
have a place and have it dedicated, and it
was just what was needed.
	President M. I Horne spoke about the-
nursing class taught by Dr. Roberts free of
expense, and said that there was still op-
portunity for other students; spoke of the
growth of the society, new wards had been
organized, we had need of a three days
meeting, it would not be too long for all to
have an opportunity to report.
	Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Conference adjourned until April
1899. Dismissed with prayer by President
Susan Grant.
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


