[Column 2]
they chose so divert the water as to ruin
the whole of Egypt, which owes its life to
the periodical overflow and to irrigation.”
	This Fashoda affair threatened strained
relations for a time between England and
France. But the French now disclaim it
as anything but a private exploring party,
that there was no disposition in any quarter
to oppose the further advance of the Eng-
lish. And it is further stated that when
Kitchener arrived at Fashoda he found
Major Marchand there with only seven or
eight white men and a handful of native
Africans.
	It has been estimated that the victory of
the United States over Spain resulted in the
material improvement of 8,000,000 people in
the Phillipines, and 2,000,000 or more in
the West Indies.
	Kitchener’s splendid expedition brought
even greater succor and blessings to the
million of human beings in Eastern Soudan.
The fanatical movement of the Mahdi’s
resulted in the absolute closing up of one of
the most prosperous regions of the whole
African continent, a region at that time oc-
cupied by no less than 12,000,000 people.
This population was reduced to about one
half, agriculture and trade destroyed and
the country desolated. Happier and more
prosperous times may now be looked for.
There seems to be nothing in the Way
now of Cecil Rhodes great project of build-
ing a through railroad from Capetown to
Cairo.
	Kitchener is unmarried and will have no
married officers under him. He is a strict
disciplinarian, of impassive countenance.
And while his manners do not win the love
of his men, he has their profoundest respect
and sincerest admiration. He is described
as quiet but clever, and perhaps his severe
life and strict necessities have made him
apparently cold and stern. At all events
he is a great general and the pride of the
British people.
	After the victory in the Soudan, Kitchen-
er visited England accompanied by some of
his English and Egyptian officers. They
were received with unbounded enthusiasm,
being banqueted and toasted and in a
general way made to feel the great esteem
and appreciation in which they were held.
						E. S. W.


