HOW DO THEY COMPARE?

	Ida H. Harper recently published a very
convincing argument upon equal suffrage,
in which she instituted a comparison be-
tween the personnel of the anti-suffragists
and the suffragists. Alluding to the form-
er she says:
	“Almost without exception the former
appear in print under the husband’s name.
Their own individual names would convey
no meaning to the public. Scarcely one is
known for her own work in literature,
science, education, practical philanthropy,
business enterprise or any active effort
for the benefit of mankind. Opposed to
these place the names of the most promin-
ent of the pronounced advocates of suffrage
for women, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Harriet Martin-
eau, Florence Nightingale, Frances Power
Cobbe, Lady Aberdeen, Lady Henry Somer-
set, Annie Besant, Lucy Stone, Harriet
Beecher Stowe, Louisa M. Alcott, Mary A.
Livermore, Julia Ward Howe, Clara Bar-
ton, Zerelda G. Wallace, Mary L. Booth,
Alice and Phoebe Cary, Mary Clemmer,
May Wright Sewall, Alice Freeman Palmer,
Sarah B. Cooper, Leonora Barry Lake,
Anna Dickinson, Anna L. Diggs, Grace
Greenwood, Harriet Hosmer, Lilian Whit-
ing, Bertha Honore Palmer, Jane L. Stan-
ford, Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, Frances E.
Willard and all the host of W. C. T. U.
leaders, Myra Bradwell and all the women
lawyers, Rev. Anna H. Shaw and all the
women ministers, Dr. Mary Putnam Jacobi,
and practically all the women physicians
and the vast majority of teachers and news-
paper women. 
	The list might be extended almost indifin-
itely and it would include nine-tenths of
the women who have made a name for
themselves and who are distinguished for
their own commanding ability. What a
travesty that a handful of women, eminent
only in social positions, should besiege the
legislatures to withhold the right of repre-
sentation from such as these! How much
worse than a travesty that they should
seek to deprive the wage earning women
of what would be their strongest weapon
for self-protection! All the opposition of
men for the last half century has not caused
so much discouragement to the women who
have fought the battles as this unprecedented
action on the part of their own sex. This
is not that they are retarding the progress
of the suffrage movement, for they are
having the opposite effect, but only that,
after all these years of opportunity, the wo-
men who should be leaders are laggards
and obstructionists.”


