[Column 2]
matter to come unannounced and surprise
his father, who though perhaps nonplussed
at first was too much the gentleman in his
own house to be rude even to an unwelcome
guest. Unfortunately he had "reckoned
without his host." Penelope was in the
gayest of spirits[-] regardless of her protesta-
tions to her brother, she had dressed her-
self with the greatest care in the colors
Plympton preferred, and even wore his
favorite flowers, sent from his own hot
house, and everything in and about the
mansion bespoke a woman’s desire to please
the guest of the occasion.
‘The mistletoe hung in the castle hal[-],
The ho[-]ly branch shone on the old oak wall.'
	Young Dilliway sprang from the cab and
Harry Severn followed him into the great
wide hall amid a perfect blaze of light and
dazzle of brilliancy; beyond was the library,
and the brother thinking to give his sister
the pleasure of a lover’s greeting hurried to
the library with his young friend while he
went himself to call Penelope. The library
opened on the other side from the drawing
room, and while Harry stood waiting ex-
pecting momentarily to see his sweetheart
the heavy tapestry curtains parted, and
beaming with smiles, and radiant as the
sun, in steps Penelope followed by Charles
Plympton. At sight of her lover in mili-
tary cloak and plumes, she paled like death
and would have fainted had she not burst
into tears; the soldier never stirred, he stood
like a statue, a few seconds and the brother
came to the rescue, he took his sister and
led her from the library through the long
hall up the marble staircase to her own
room and there he left her “alone with her
conscience.”
	He was absent a few seconds but in that
time angry and bitter words had passed be-
tween the two young men[-] and a quarrel
seemed inevitable. The brother succeeded
in pacifying them by reminding them it was
Xmas eve, and that “Peace and good will”
had always prevailed at such times in all re-
spectable English homes; that it would be
an unpardonable offense for two gentlemen
to disturb the host, and what would be
gained by giving way to an insane passion
for supremacy in a young girls affection.
“Besides,” he added, “you believe, doubt-
less in the old saying ‘All is fair in love
and war.’ ”
	While her brother was making peace be-
low stairs, Penelope’s sobs and shrieks had
brought her maid Honore to her assistance,
and with the aid of restoratives and condo-
lences, she finally calmed her nerves, pur-
suaded her to change her apparel, and
make herself presentable at dinner, for there
was to be quite a large party of gentlemen
and a few ladies, among them the old duke
who was so enamored of Penelope, that he
made himself ridiculous in the extreme.
	Penelope had at least two good hours in
which to compose herself and her father
and brother were too much engaged in pre-
parations to pay any attention to other
matters; as for Ned he was maneuvering to
keep peace with the two disappointed lov-
ers, and so Penelope had time for reflection.
Her maid consoled her pride and vanity by
saying “she was sure it was no harm for a
pretty young woman to dress to please
visitors, and of course, honey, you were
perfectly innocent, tho’ if you had known
Mr. Severn was coming home you would
have worn moss roses and violets and pale
blue silk instead of that gay figured satin
with the poppies, and I know the Lieut. is
the favorite by your blushes.”

[Column 3]
	Poor Penelope tried in vain to hush the
voluble maid, who simply adored her young
mistress as she had the mother whom she
had served when Penelope was a child, and
who had been dead now some years; and as
trusted servants will she took great liber-
ities in talking, not only to Miss Penelope
but to Miss Penelope’s lovers, whenever
she had an opportunity making each in
turn believe he was the prime favorite
	Finally the dinner gong rung and Penel-
ope pale and trembling dressed demurely in
Quaker gray satin, emerged from her room
and went almost stealthily to the great,
oaken dining hall. Her brother had come
forward and to disguise the awkward
library scene from his father, said, “My
sister, I have a surprise for you, here is our
young Lieut. home on furlough, and Mr.
Plympton and the Duke of Weldmore, Lady
Eliza and Miss Bessie, his daughters,” and
so on through the entire company. Mr.
Dilliway was in such high spirits that he
did not observe the sedate and studied man-
ner of his daughter, nor the black looks in-
terchanged between the three suitors. He
thought only of the grand dinner and the
grander guests, who had come at his invita-
tion to partake his hospitality; for rich as
he was, favored by fortune, he had no
claim to titles and it was something of a
condescension on their part, to have his
table filled with men and women of rank
and title. He had no idea a storm was
brewing there and then that would end in
sorrow and disgrace.
	Dowager Lady Cushing sat at the table
by Miss Dilliway for in those days it was
not proper for unmarried ladies to enter-
tain at dinner, unless they had reached an
uncertain age; and after much feasting and
gay interchange of witty toasting and rep-
artee the ladies retired to the drawing room
and Penelope breathed more freely. Two
or three times Lady Cushing rallied her for
lack of her usual witticisms, she was an ad-
mirer of Penelope’s beauty and would glad-
ly have secured her as a wife for her young-
est son, but he was sensible enough not to
venture into the field with so many rivals,
even at his mother’s earnest solicitation.
Ned Dilliway and Harry Severn excused
themselves soon after the ladies withdrew,
and went into the open air where they
could speak freely. Ned promised Harry if
he would be discreet, he would secure an in-
terview for him with his sister, whom he
was sure loved him best, notwithstanding
appearances to the contrary, and the Lieut.
went away out of sorts leaving his adieux
for Ned to make. In the dining room the
Duke boasted of his diplomacy in courtship
so openly that he angered Charles Plymp-
ton who bandied words with him until Mr.
Dilliway was obliged to interfere and sue
for peace, at least while under his roof at
Xmas time.
	Lady Cushing and the duke’s daughters
took affectionate leave of Miss Dilliway,
when the hour came for going, declaring
the dinner, the music and the entire
affair a perfect entertainment, and when
Lady Cushing kissed her she said, “Poor,
dear Penelope, what a pity you can’t marry
all your beaux. I’m sure you don’t know
which to choose between so many. I wish
my Dick would enter the contest.”
	Penelope half bewildered stammered out
“O don’t, Lady Cushing, spare him any share
of humiliation I am bringing on my-
self.”
	It was the first out break she had made;
(Continued on page 8[-].)


(Continued from page 87.)
but in a sense it was a sort of relief. She
had neither a mother, aunt or sister in whom
to confide.
	A day or two followed in pouring rain
and sleet and it was almost impos-
sible to go outside, no visitors came though
it was holiday week; and the real Christ-
mas, the day after the party was more for
the servants and people employed by them
than for the family. Penelope’s tears were
almost like the downpour of rain and she
begged Ned to make everything right with
Harry, and so he did and planned a meet-
ing which ended in a reconciliation and a
promise of marriage, as soon as the father’s
consent could be obtained. The Lieut. re-
turned to his regiment and Penelope set
about preparations for the bridal trousseau,
as she had independent means of her own,
and was left much to herself in matters of
expenditure, it was an easy thing to do.
London affords great opportunities for shop-
ping, and Honore knew all the best places
and establishments. The carriage was al-


