EDNA SPRAGUE.
	Another of our dear sisters has been called to
leave us, Sister Edna Sprague of this place,
(Junction.) She died Oct. 13, 1898, after an ill-
ness of two weeks.
	Sister Edna was born in the 15th ward, Salt
Lake City, June 2, 1871. Her parents were David
and Esther La Baron. Her mother dying when
she was about four years old Edna came to live
with an older sister, Sister Ella Merrill, who is
the president of our Relief Society, and whose
husband, Brother John Merrill, is our Bishop. 
	Under the loving care of Brother and Sister
Merrill she grew to womanhood, and on Sep. 17,
1891, was married to Edwin E. Sprague. She
leaves four children, two boys and two girls, the
youngest a baby two weeks old.
	While we miss the dear sister who has “gone
before” and sympathize with those who are be-
reft, yet we can but bow in humble, silent sub-
mission to our Father’s decree, and pray for His
grace to strengthen us in all we are called to pass
through.
					ALICE HAYES.
Junction, Nov. 17, 1898.
ELIZABETH EDMONDS GAILEY.
	It is with sorrow we record the death of anoth-
er faithful sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Edmonds Gailey.
She was born July 24, 1854, at Lowstaff, Suffolk
Co., England.
	She was afflicted for a long time with consump-
tion. Her whole life was spent in the work of
God. Before her marriage much of her time was
taken up with the Y. L. M. I. A. in Salt Lake
City. She was a member of the ward choir and
a very useful member in the Relief Society.
	She was married to John Gailey May 21, 1886,
and since that time has been a teacher in the
Kaysville Relief Society and faithfully performed
that duty whenever her health would permit, al-
ways being cheerfnl and happy.
	She leaves a husband and three living children
to mourn her loss. It was hard for her to part
with her loved ones, she clung to life to the very
last. She has gone to rest until resurrection shall
unite them no more to part. ’Tis hard to part
with those we love, but parting comes to all.
CELIA HALL RAYMOND.
	Celia Hall Raymond died at her home October
22, 1898, of dropsy after an illness of nearly three
months.
	Celia, only daughter of Bradley and Elizabeth
Hall, was born at Liberty, Sullivan Co, New
York, April 20, 1825, and was reared in a quiet
home in a country place by a kind and gentle
mother, having lost her father at an early age.
	She was married to Grandison Raymond of the
same place, August 12, 1849. Shortly thereafter
she and her husband were influenced to go West
to investigate the principles of the Gospel. While
at St. Louis they became satisfied of the truth
and were baptized January, 1850. In the spring
that year they moved to Council Bluffs, Iowa, and
a year f[-]om that time went back to their old
home on a visit to settle up their affairs prepara-
tory to gathering with the Saints.
	In the summer of 1852, they removed to Salt
Lake valley with their two small children, the
youngest being but ten days old when the journey
was commenced. They landed in Salt Lake City
and after remaining here for some time moved to
Bountiful where they made their permanent
home. She was the mother of ten children,
seven of whom survive her.
	Sister Raymond was a faithful worker in the
Relief Society as a teacher, in which capacity she
labored for many years. She was most generous
in giving to the poor in a private as well as a pub-
lic way, and in her home circle her kind, forgiving
and self-denying character cannot be too highly
praised
	Funeral services were held on Monday at 1
o’clock in the meeting house. The speakers
were Brothers John Ellison, William [-]eezl[-]y,
Ebenezer Williams T. F. Rouche, John R.
Barnes and John Thornley.
