WOMEN IN THE LEGISLATURE.

	The Legislature of Utah convened in the
City and County Building on Monday,
January 9. Its members are nearly all
Democrats, in fact all who have been elec-
ted from this county. It is a matter of un-
favorable comment here and elsewhere that
only one woman should have been elected
this term. Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon in
the Senate was elected two years ago and
was fortunately “a hold over.”
	It is strange and regrettable that in a
state where there are nearly or quite as
many women voters as men, that so few
were nominated. It proves how strong the
old traditions and prejudices are against wo-
men in public life.
	At any rate women do not congregate up-
on the corners of the streets and other con-
spicuous places to talk politics and bet on
elections or nominations. The two women
who are at present members, are both very
capable, conscientious and well educated,
and know something of Utah and its needs.
They are equal in intelligence to the men;
perhaps some members who have been in
several successive Legislatures may be a
little better versed in technicalities, but
in the opinion of the writer these ladies
know enough of Parliamentary usage to
preside over the House or the Senate and
would give more grace and as much dig-
nity to the office. Meanwhile we shall see
what comes to pass. The selection of a
United States Senator will be a problem
not easily solved where there are so many
candidates; and it maybe a little difficult to
choose from the number, five already and
“a dark horse” in the background, but
women as a rule have quick perception
and are gifted with intuition and will most
likely make as few mistakes as men (Heaven
preserve them from making more.) At
any rate the trial is being made in the suf-
frage states, though hardly a fair beginning
with so small a number. The women who
have the ballot should not hesitate to begin
at the beginning and attend the primary of
their own ward or district in sufficient num-
bers to make themselves a power and do
some of the nominating, and until they
have courage to do this the cause will not
have very great impetus.
	The “eternal womanly” so much praised
deters women from making very rapid
strides towards a reformation in politics.
As if it were not womanly and dignified in
any case to try and better the conditions of

