PERSEVERANCE AT CENTERVILLE.

	The Centerville Relief Society owned
two lots of its own and desired to build, as
they had no place of their own to meet in,
but on inquiring the cost they found it
would be more than they could afford, not
wishing to go into debt too much. On the
adjoining lot from theirs was a school house
which they were advised to purchase if it
could be bought on reasonable terms. A
committee was formed of the brethren to
look after it. They found they could buy
it for five hundred dollars. Through the
perseverance of the committee, and prayers
and help of the brethren and sisters who
responded nobly to the cause, they bought
it, so we now own two thirds of a block.
The school house was cleared and repaired,
its size is thirty by thirty-five feet, it cost
to repair and furnish it one hundred and 
five dollars.
	The hall was dedicated on the 1st of June,
1898. There were present President J.
Hess and Counselors Grant and Clark, of
the Davis Stake; the Bishopric of the ward,
A. B. Porter, Melvin H. Randall and John
J. Smith; Stake Presidency of the Relief 
Society, President Susan Grant and Coun-
selors Clark and Holt and R. S. Stake 
Secretary Phebe Sessions; also Mrs. E. D.
Roundy of Salt Lake City and other visitors
from the different wards. It was decided
that the Relief Society should fast in thank-
fulness to their Heavenly Father for His
goodness unto them.
	The meeting was called to order by
President Margaret Randall. Singing
“The spirit of God.” Prayer by Bishop
Aaron Porter. Singing, Invocation com-
posed by E. D. Roundy, after which Presi-
dent Randall gave a brief sketch of how we
bought our house, and said she knew the
Lord had greatly blessed us in opening our
way to obtain the means to pay for it.
	The dedicatory prayer was then offered
by our beloved president, John W. Hess.
Short addresses were made by the visiting
brethren and sisters, congratulating us up-
on our building and furnishings, and
prophesying that the way would be opened 
whereby we could pay the rest of the in-
debtedness. They also spoke of the magni-
tude of the Relief Society work and its aims
and purposes, and said it gave the sisters
great scope to use their talents and abilities
in relieving suffering humanity, and in
many ways could we do good; we could by
our walk and conversation in our daily life
teach the principles of virtue and truth and 
sow the seeds of faith in the hearts of the
young people, and encourage all to do right
by our own example as well as precept.
Prayed the Lord to ever bless the sisters
with a full realization of their duties and
give them strength to perform the same.
	A poem was then read dedicated to our
beloved president, Margaret Randall, in
which her faithfulness and integrity to the
Gospel and the Relief Society work in
general was portrayed, composed and read
by Mrs. E. D. Roundy, after which the


meeting was adjourned and cake and ice
cream were served to the assembly.
