[Column 2]
Elder Hyde and over which he was Bishop
until his death in 1874.
	The first summer they lived in wagons
and tents. Sister Hyde was very indus-
trious during these labors of settling a new
place and cheerfully adapted herself to the
situation. She was the first president of
the Relief Society in Hyde Park and filled
the position with credit and satisfaction for
a number of years, through her entire ad-
ministration. She brought from her labors
in the factory in Massachusetts over seven-
teen hundred dollars, which was very oppor-
tune for those hard times.
	Brother Hyde purchased a carding mill
in Logan and Sister Abigail being very
anxious to earn something to help herself
to a livelihood, and being the only one in
that section who understood carding, went
to Logan and worked in the mill for a
term of years. Subsequently she went to
work in the Co-operative Store in Hyde
Park, and proved herself in this capacity a
most efficient business woman and  was
scrupulously honest in all her transactions.
She continued in this employment for
several years after the death of her husband,
when the store went into other hands. Be-
ing left without employment she went to
Logan City and again took up her abode
six days in the week in the carding mill.
She continued in this labor several years.
	In the former years of her labors in the
carding mill when the business was so
flush that the mill had to run day and
night, Sister Hyde would run the mill from
midnight until noon, when she would be
released by an able bodied man: and thus
for a long time she did the work which was
laborious enough for a strong man, and
which few women could do.
	She was postmistress of Hyde Park for
twelve years, and while absent working in
the carding mill her cousin Sarah, who
lived in the same house, filled the place as
deputy. Her reports and transactions were
always correct, giving the best of satisfac-
tion to all concerned.
	During this busy life of constant indus-
try and hard labor she bore three children,
two sons and one daughter, all of whom
survive her and are active, faithful Latter-
day Saints. The eldest son is now the
Bishop of Hyde Park.
	During the past few months Sister Hyde
was afflicted with paralysis, and passed
peacefully away without a struggle at 1:35
a. m., Tuesday, January 10, 1899. Her
children were all present at her bedside
during her last moments. She leaves two
sons and a daughter, six grandsons and
three granddaughters to mourn her loss.
	Her funeral was held in Hyde Park at
noon, Saturday 14th inst., and was attended
by the family and many loving friends.
Consoling and instructive remarks were
made by Presidents S. M. Molen, Orson
Smith and Elder Matthias Cowley. The
grave was dedicated by Bishop William
Hyde of the 5th ward of Logan, and thus
was laid to rest the remains of one of the
noblest of women, honest, chaste, benevo-
lent, industrious and faithful to the trust
reposed in her throughout life, from child-
hood to the grave. She fell asleep in the
hope of a glorious resurrection. She will
receive a crown of eternal lives in the
resurrection of the just.
						M. F. C.


If a man has no trials and tribulations he
is unable to appreciate happiness.


