		LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.

	Minutes of Nov. 12, 1898, Counselor
Stevenson presiding in the absence of Presi-
dent Horne. Singing “Lord we come be-
fore Thee now. ” Prayer by Sister Clara
Cannon. Singing “O, ye mountains high.”
	Sister Cannon said she wished each Re-
lief Society to give in a sentiment, they
were to be recorded in a book and given to
Sister Horne for a birthday present and
that a meeting would be held in the Assem-
bly hall next Saturday in honor of her
birthday.
	Minutes read and approved. Counselor
Stevenson said she thought we were blest
beyond those of our sisters who are living
in our surrounding cities and towns, we
were privileged to hear the apostles and
people of God almost every time we went
to meeting.
	President Horne arrive. Sister Jane
James find another sister bore faithful testi-
monies. 
	Sister Zina H. Bull sent in her resigna-
tion, stating that it was impossible for her
to continue her labors. A vote of thanks
was tendered her and Sister Julia S. Wool-
ley was sustained as secretary to fill the
place made vacant by her resignation
	Sister Horne said she felt that this peo-
ple were her people, and where they go she
wanted to go. She knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God, the greatest that ever lived
except Jesus Christ. Said there were so
many false spirits abroad that each one
must have a testimony in her own heart to
resist their power, we must watch that we
be not led astray. Said our Stake secretary
of the Relief Society had resigned and Sis-
ter Augusta W. Grant had been selected to
take her place. She was unanimously sus-
tained in that office.
	Sister Julia Howe said we had received
the priesthood in connection with our hus-
bands and had had the Holy Ghost confer-
red upon us. She thought economy should
be a part of our religion and use what
God blesses us with for building up the
kingdom of God. Exhorted all to sustain
each other, redeem our dead and increase in
faith, and not do as those who are rich and
grow faithless. Let us pray for each other,
especially those who are placed in responsi-
ble positions.
	Sister Morris spoke beautifully to Sister
Jane James. Sister Georgie Young was

[Column 3]
present to announce an entertainment to be
given in the Assembly Hall on Friday night
the 18th for the benefit of the Kindergarten.
	Several other sisters bore strong testi-
monies of the truth of the Gospel and the
goodness of God.
	Sister Derrick related instances of the
fulfillment of prophecy in her behalf. Sis-
ter Paul said she had been blessed in the
Temple and had many promises fulfilled.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said the trials of
life are hard to pass through but God will
bear us up. Several other sisters bore testi-
monies of God’s goodness to them and the
power that had been made manifest in heal-
ing them, as well as giving them spiritual
blessings. 
	President Horne said she would advise
the sisters to all rise on their feet and testi-
fy of God, said Jesus Christ said He would
testify to our Heavenly Father of those who
would testify of Him before man. Said she
always had attended her meetings for she 
needed spiritual food.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
Benediction by Counselor Webb.
