[Column 1]
through her narrative that it is quite im-
possible after half a century to be anything
like accurate in the repetition, so I have de-
cided to tell the story myself as she told it
to us as nearly as I can remember it.
	You must imagine a dozen or more half
grown girls in short dresses with low necks
and wearing frilled pantalettes and low slip-
pers clustered around Miss Pamela, eyes
beaming with delight while she told the
love story of her great Aunt Dilliway.
AUNT DILLIWAY’S LOVE STORY.
	Penelope Dilliway was an only daughter,
and very proud of herself and her belong-
ings, had been taught all sorts of accomplish-
ments such as were considered woman’s
legitimate employment in those days, or
perhaps we should say for “fine ladies."
such as embroidery, singing, dancing and
playing the harp, especially dancing. Miss
Dilliway’s father was determined she should
marry well, and his idea of marriage was
wealth and title, one or both. His daugh-
ter, however, fell desperately in love with
a young lieutenant, a man of brilliant
parts, a fine tenor singer, and a general
favorite in society.
	Miss Dilliway resorted to all sorts of
subterfuges to deceive her irate father; and
her younger brother, (the maternal grand-
father of Miss Pamela) was her accomplice
in many well laid plots of the lovers. The
father introduced into the home the young
and fascinating heir-at-law of a dukedom,
Mr. Charles Plympton, who really had
great influence with Miss Penelope, by his
sophistry and polish, and at first Miss Dilli-
way fancied she was yielding to blind her
father to the true state of her love affairs
with the young lieutenant. But her broth-
er more quickly than herself detected the
fascination; and felt in duty bound to re-
monstrate with her saying, “You cannot
possibly be aware of your own inconstancy,
your desire to please Plympton in the mat-
ter of dress, the choice of flowers and per-
fumery, and above all your great desire to
be an expert horsewoman, all of which is
very apparent to a close observer, reveal per-
ceptibly how the matter stands. Father
speaks of it with great satisfaction at the
dinner table after you are gone, and Plymp-
ton chuckles with delight at the success at-
tending his suit. It is downright coquetry
think of it as you will, sister, I believe you
are innocent, I believe you love Harry
truly, but Plympton’s wiles and artifices
are luring you on to your own destruction.”
	When thus reproved Penelope would
weep, (she had tears for occasion then) and
declared she would never try to please
Plympton again, let him pursuade as he
might, she would give up riding much as
she enjoyed it, and remain away from balls
and pleasure parties, where she would be
likely to meet one who sought her against
her will.
	Meantime Harry Severn was away with
his regiment, but rumors reached him of
Penelope riding in the park with Plympton,
and other like rambles together, of their
dancing together more often than even
lovers were wont in those days. Goaded
beyond endurance by his fellow officers he
obtained leave of absence and hurried to
London.
	Arriving at the time of Xmas festivities
he looked up young Dilliway his true friend
who unconscious of the presence of Plymp-
ton at the hall took Harry Severn home
with him, thinking it would be an easy

