SALT LAKE STAKE. 
	The quarterly Stake conference of the
Relief Society convened December 3, 1898,
in the 14th ward Assembly Hall, at 10 a.
m. Present on the stand were President
M. I. Horne, Counselors Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon, Presidents Zina D.
H. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith of the
General Board;and also of the Stake Board;
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder, aids,
Maria W. Wilcox, corresponding secretary;
Augusta W. Grant, recording secretary.
	Meeting opened by singing “God moves
in a mysterious way.” Prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe. Singing “The resurrec-
tion day,” in remembrance of Sister Sarah
M. Kimball whose death was announced by
Sister Horne. The roll was then called.
	President Horne wished the sisters to re-
member the meeting is held the first Satur-
day in the month each quarter. The name
of Sister Augusta W. Grant was placed be-
fore the conference, and she was sustained
unanimously as Stake secretary.
	Presidents of the country wards were
were called upon to report.
	President Horne was pleased to hear the
reports, From her visits to the different
associations she found them all in good con-
dition. Those who donate will be blessed,
but those who do the spiritual work, which
is very important, will have additional
blessings. Now that winter is coming on
we must look after the worthy poor, they
must be taken care of. Prayed that the
Lord would bless us all and especially those
who have come so far this morning in the
cold. Spoke of the death of Sister Sarah
M. Kimball, and her faithfulness and good
works in life.
	President M. W. Wilcox, 4th ward, Salt
Lake City, spoke of the work of the aged
sisters who try to help themselves. Have
made 150 yards of carpet.
	President Zina D. H. Young said, “This
organization is from the Lord. I am
thankful that I am able to be here today.”
Gave reminiscences of the days of Nauvoo,
and hoped the sisters here would never
have to go through such trials. Spoke of
Sister Kimball’s good works.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith thought
now that Sister Kimball was gone she was
the only one who had been present at the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Wanted to see the Relief Society wide
awake and ready to do their duty. Take
an interest in our neighbors, do good to all
and work in the Temple for the dead.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
President Sarah J. Cannon.
	Afternoon session 2 p. m. Singing, “O,
my Father.” Prayer by Sister E. L.
Webb. Singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.’’ Minutes of the last
quarterly conference read and approved.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt honored to

(Column 2)
see so many of the elderly sisters, those
who had spent their lives in good works. 
Exhibited the album presented to Sister
Horne on her 80th birthday by the Relief
Society, and said it was a very appropriate
and beautiful tribute to one worthy of all
we can do. All of our young people do not
appreciate the work that is done by the sis-
ters and the Relief Society. The presidents
should be alive to their work and not allow
interest to lag. All strive to create an in-
terest, invite some one to come and give
special subjects, a lecture, or what-
ever they can do. They are mother’s class-
es. "Sister Horne wishes me to say that
she feels that the Lord inspired the sisters 
to do what they did for her, to make her
eightieth birthday memorable, and she is
very grateful.” Spoke of Sister Kimball
and said she was the only woman so far as
she knew that had laid the corner stone for 
a building, the Relief Society hall in the
15th ward.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said she felt
very grateful to the Lord that she had been
raised from a bed of severe  sickness. Said
we cannot be grateful enough for His many
blessings, our lives should be such that we
will be living examples to the young peo- 
ple.	 Much depends upon the mothers,
they can teach their children not to associ-
ate or marry those outside of our Church.
The teachers can do much good by drop-
ping a word of counsel when they visit the
families, and mothers should gather their
families together when these teachers visit. 
It is not their only mission to collect con-
tributions for the poor, though that is a
great work; they should be able to expond
the scriptures. We should have something
instructive in all our society meetings,
reading or something besides reports, that
the young people may be attracted to the
meetings.
	Sister Horne raquested that the revela-
tion given to Emma Smith should be read 
by the secretary.	This is the 25th section
in the Doctrine and Covenants. President 
Horne made a few remarks on the same
subject and advised the sisters to read more
of these revelations, and take note of their
meaning, it will be a great benefit to them 
and they can see that the prophecies are be-
ing fulfilled-	The Prophet Joseph Smith
always had great respect and consideration
for the sisters.
	Sister E. Stevenson said when the war
was declared she felt that the way would
be opened and the Gospel carried to many 
people who had not heard it before. We
should be careful of our conversation be-
fore our children, improve our time and in-
form ourselves in the principles of the Gos-
pel. If we are tried remember that "Whom
the Lord loveth He chasteneth.”	Instil
faith into the hearts of your children, appre-
ciate the blessing and privilege of going
into the house of the Lord, and let us live
our religion, give great attention to our
children, the mission of motherhood is the
greatest on the earth.
	Sister L. D. Alder said, "I love the Gos-
pel, and I love all those who love the Gos-
pel.	Those who work and serve the Lord
by devoting themselves to their children are
doing a great work; but those who add to
this work by laboring in the Relief Society
need not neglect these duties." Paid a lov-
ing tribute to the memory of Sister Kimball.
Said let us make our choice of things for a
better world.	There should be no mourn-
ing when we leave this world. Great and


