[Column 2]
to Kirtland, Ohio, soon after the Church
was established there, and were associated
with the Prophet Joseph intimately. Sarah
M., whose maiden name was Granger, at-
tended the Hebrew school in Kirtland, with
Joseph Smith and others who were among
the foremost leaders of the Church in early
days. As a young girl she had excellent
opportunities for advancement and cultiva-
tion, and the knowledge acquired was a
good foundation for her subsequent career
as a teacher and as a leader among women.
Her father and mother were Oliver and
Lydia Dibble Granger and well known in
Church history. ( Of their family only three
grew to man and womanhood. Fayette
Granger, the eldest, was well known in
Utah in the early days as a sort of pioneer,
and spent most of his time on the frontiers.
Farley went to California and settled and is
still residing there.)
	Oliver Granger, the father, is mentioned
in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants,
section 117, in a revelation given to the
Prophet Joseph in Far West, Missouri,
July 8, 1838, (Brother Granger was still in
Kirtland,) and there were many precious
promises made to him at that time. Not
only to Brother Granger but to Sarah were
promises made by the Prophet that were
very sacred and very comforting to her
throughout her life.
	After the Saints gathered to Nauvoo
Miss Granger became acquainted with
Hiram Kimball, who was a resident and
land owner of the town of Commerce, as it
was then called. They were married in
Kirtland, Ohio, but came to dwell in Nau-
voo where they had a lovely home, and
Mr. Kimball figured conspicuously in busi-
ness and was very prosperous.
	Sister Kimball was ambitious in good
works and especially anxious to contribute
towards the Temple which was to be erect-
ed in that city, and her zeal in this respect
was one of the factors in bringing about the
organization of the Relief Society, which
has since become such a large and flourish-
ing institution. She was present at its or-
ganization in the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo
on the 17th day of March, 1842, and in fact
the preliminary meeting was held in Sister
Kimball's own house. There are few wo-
men living who were members of the first
organization and only one, Bathsheba W.
Smith, known to the writer, who was pres-
ent when the organization was effected.
Zina D. H. Young and M. Isabella Horne
were afterwards members, and are the only
ones we can recall that are now living.
	Sister Kimball came with her husband
and family to the valley in 1850 and settled
in this city, where her residence has been
ever since. When the Relief Society was
organized in Utah Sister Kimball was chos-
en to preside in her own ward, the Fifteenth,
this was on the 9th of February, 1857, and
she has been from that time one of the most
able presidents and indefatigable workers in
the cause throughout all Zion. Perhaps
there was no more judicious economizer of
means, yet withal liberal in bestowing to
the needy and unfortunate, than she has
been. Her own ward can testify to her
good works, her unbounded charity and
motherly care of the sick and afflicted, bet-
ter than we who knew her in a wider sense.
Everywhere her works testify of her, and
the younger generation should not pass by
such notable examples as her life affords.
Her name and life should be perpetuated in
the memory of every young man and wo-
man in Zion.

[Column 3]
	Notwithstanding the many public duties
Sister Kimball performed and the positions
she filled her home was never neglected;
she was a model housekeeper and knew the
art of making home attractive; yet there
was no stronger-minded woman in all
Israel than Sister Kimball. She has main-
tained the principle of equality of the sexes
and contended for it with all the advantages
pertaining thereto. She did not believe in
half measures. She stood solidly for the
lar[-]est freedom of opinion and of the press,
without waiting to see what other people
thought. As a public speaker she was con-
cise and to the point, never made long
speeches, but said what she felt forcibly
and always with effect. It was invariably
something to remember. She was specially
gifted in conversation, was well read, had
traveled much and met many celebrated
people; was at one time quite familiar in
Washington society.
	Sister Kimball taught school in this city
for several years, and under very trying 
circumstances, and while thus engaged in
teaching she became even more than ever
convinced of the need of changed conditions
for women engaged in work that came in
competition with men, and determined to
push the matter to the utmost. And she
knew there was no other method that could
be so effectual as the elective franchise.
	She was an ardent admirer and champion
of Susan B. Anthony and since her active
work as president of the Utah Suffrage
Association, her name has been on the Roll
of Honor of the National American Suffrage
Association as Honorary vice-president. 
Sister Kimball was a member of the Utah
Constitutional Convention of 1882, and was 
for some years a member of the Territorial
Committee of the People’s Party. It is im- 
possible to enumerate all this remarkable
woman has done, but suffice it to say she
has been one of the foremost in all pro-
gressive work of elevating, uplifting and
advancing society and humanity.
	After the Relief Society had been organ-
ized throughout Zion in Stakes and branches
a central organization was effected and Sarah
M. Kimball was chosen by Sister Eliza R.
Snow, the president, as secretary, June 19,
1880. October 10, 1892, the society was
incorporated and she was elected one of the
vice presidents, which position she occupied
at the time of her death. Her loss will be
deeply felt by all her co-workers, she was
wise in counsel, and her words were al-
ways fraught with meaning; her judgment
on all subjects was excellent, and she never
failed to give a word in due season and to
sound the rising note.
	We shall miss her in all our assemblies,
her presence was always inspiring if she 
was not able to say but a few words. At
our last General Conference of the Relief
Society in the Assembly Hall, October 5, 
she was not present being afraid of the ex-
posure, but she had been with us in the
meeting of the Board of Directors in the
“Exponent” office the day previous and
spoke impressively upon the subjects under
consideration. She also attended the officers'
meeting in the lecture hall of the Latter-
day Saints Business College on Saturday,
October 8, and spoke twice, a most unusual
thing for her. But we shall hear her voice
no more among us, she has passed on to
a higher life for which she was eminently
fitted, to join the innumerable company of
Saints who had preceded her, her husband,
father, mother and many relatives, whom


she officiated for in the Temples of Zion.
	Sister Kimball left three sons and one
daughter, her sons all have families but
they were just as tenderly attached to their
mother. There are quite a number of grand-
children.
	The relatives and friends of Sister Kim-
ball gathered about nine on Sunday morn-
ing at her residence to take a last look, as
she lay peacefully sleeping in her beautiful
white robes within the white casket and a
holy calm upon her face as if in vision.
When the farewells were over the casket
covered with loving mementoes of floral
offerings was borne to the chapel, followed
by the family and friends and the Relief
Society of which she was the honored and
beloved president. The Fifteenth ward
hall where the funeral services were con-
ducted was exquisitely draped in white and
flowers, and potted plants were artistically
arranged, (her express wish was that there
should be no black.) Bishop John Morgan
presided at the funeral services, the musical
exercises were by the ward choir, which in-
cludes Sister Maggie Hull, one of the
sweetest singers in all Israel.
	The speakers were first Sister Zina D.
H. Young, who had known Sister Kimball
since the days of Kirtland; she was much
affected while speaking, but paid an elo-
quent tribute of love and tenderness to her
departed friend and companion.
	Bishop R. T. Burton spoke of her many
virtues and of her magnificent capabilities,
her motherly attention to all who needed
assistance, whether of the household of faith
or not, and of the great blessing she had
been to all in the ward.
	Apostle H. J. Grant and President An-
gus M. Cannon each spoke in glowing
terms of praise of her lifelong labors. Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne made the closing
speech, which was a loving tribute to her
memory and eulogistic of her long life
and work among the Saints. Apostle John
Henry Smith offered the benediction.
	A long train of carriages followed the re-
mains to the cemetery, where the body was
deposited beside her mother. Sister Lydia
D. Granger, her husband, Elder Hiram
Kimball, having been buried at sea on his
way as a missionary to the Sandwich Is-
lands, more than thirty years ago. Coun-
selor Rodney Badger dedicated the grave,
and the last sad rites were over when the
coffin was covered with the fresh earth and
also profusely with beautiful flowers.


