[Column 2]
the western hemisphere. We read in the
Book of Mormon of a very ancient peo-
ple called the Jaredites, the founder of
which was Jared. He was supposed to be
one of the builders of the Tower of Babel,
and is presumed to be a descendant of Shem.
Little is told in the Book of Ether of the
private character of Jared, but he must
have been a great and good man and also
held the priesthood when God scattered
and confounded the languages of these pre-
sumptuous builders. Jared and his broth-
ers plead with Him that their language and
that of their friends might not be changed.
Their prayer was heard and the Lord
promised to lead them to a new land, choice
above all others, when He would make of
them a great and mighty people, and He
would go before them as their guide.
	In obedience to the command of the Lord
Jared with his brother and their families
and friends gathered their flocks, herds and
seeds of various kinds, and commenced their
journey in the wilderness as the Lord
might lead. They were going to a new
land far away from their eastern home,
across the ocean to a land uninhabited by
mortal man.
	They appear to have collected every
thing that could have been of any use to
them that they could carry. They took
hives of honey bees (known to them by the
name Deseret.)
	The valley into which the Lord first led
them they called Nimrod. Here they tar-
ried for a time, preparing for the long
journey that lay before them. Their wan-
derings were long and tedious, but at last
they reached the great ocean. The place
where they tarried they named Moriancu-
mer. Here they remained for four years,
at the end of which time the Lord visited
the brother of Jared (Mahonry Moriancumer)
in a cloud and chastened him and his breth-
ren, because they had grown careless and
neglected to call upon Him. Repentance
followed this reproof, and their sins were
forgiven them.
	While here the brother of Jared was com-
manded by the Lord to build eight barges.
This command he obeyed with the assis-
tance of the company. The vessels were
small and light in construction. When
they were completed Jared and his people
with their animals and all their belongings
went on board. After a stormy voyage of
three hundred and forty-four days they
reached their destination. It is supposed
they landed on the southern shore of the
Gulf of California.
	How thankful they were that they had
reached their new home! They gave
thanks to God for bringing them safely to
the land of promise.
	Their next duty was to prepare for the
future. They commenced to till the soil
and were greatly blessed in their labors.
They were a righteous people and began to
grow and increase in number and in wealth.
	In course of time Jared and his brother
grew old and died. Before their death the
people wished to be governed by a king
and Orihah, the youngest son of Jared, was
chosen. He reigned in righteousness and
wisdom, instructing the people in the ways
of the Lord. He lived to a very great age
and was succeeded by his son Kib, who in
his old age resigned his kingdom to his son
Shule. At one time during the reign of
Kib he was taken into captivity by his son
Corihor, and kept a prisoner for many years.
	Shule also reigned in righteousness
and was a great and mighty man, yet his


