[Column 2]
know; that’s why she was sent home to
France, and I was packed off up here to
cure me of prying into family secrets; my
aunt says she has ruined me every way,
gave me sweetmeats and all sorts of for-
bidden things, and told me the love stories
of the Dilliway family for generations back,
all of which she got hold of herself by spy-
ing, and getting into old letters in the cab-
net, the Dilliway rosewood cabinet, hun-
dreds of years old made in Switzerland.”
	“Miss Pamela tell us what about the let-
ters we don’t care for the cabinet that hid
them,” said Julia, the most curious girl in
the crowd. “What a wonderful part letters
have played in the lives of men and women
ever since the days of Jeremiah the prophet.
Letters do play the mischief, I shall never
write any myself.”
	“You’ll be the first one to do it undoubt-
edly; but Julia, you must have taken to
reading the Bible lately to know so much
about Jeremiah, but remember in those
days everything was written on parchment
and in rolls, and they were not letters car-
ried by post,” broke in Lottie Brooks.
	“No, but they made a lot of trouble, all
the same, and dreadful things came to pass
that had been written about and then hid-
den away.”
	“Girls let’s not go back to Jeremiah, its
quite enough to go back to Pamela’s Aunt
Dilliway, and if we linger much longer
we’ll have to go home without the love
story, and we all dearly love that kind of a
romance. What was in the letters that so
offended your aunt when you found it out?”
interpolated Nellie. 
	“It was a sort of disconnected history
but Belmont put this and that together, and
told me that my great aunt had to run
away to America because some one fought a
duel about her. You see she was engaged
to two or three young men at once, and
after all it wasn’t her fault, she explained
some of it to me and cried and her lips
were as pale as ashes. I never expected to
see Aunt Dilliway shed a tear, she never
cried when bad news came, not even when
any one died that she had known all her
life. She used to tremble a little and her
lips would quiver, and that was all.”
	“Then she is a real born tory is she?
What did she come here for? Was it true
that tale Belmont told about a duel? Did
your aunt own up to it?” cried the roman-
tic one of the girls.
	“It wasn’t quite true, but Harry Severn
was dead when she came over to America,
and she will never set foot on English soil
again, never.”
	“Then she ought to be an American and
not a tory. Harry Severn, was he an offic-
er of rank, brave and accomplished? I
judge so from what you told us about the
harp.”
	“Yes, he was a distinguished officer, but
Aunt Dilliway’s father made another
match for her, and he wanted to separate
her from Lieut. Severn. The family were
too poor, and he thought his daughter was
good enough to marry a duke, so he select-
ed the eldest son of a relative of a duke,
who was the heir (the duke had no children
and he was getting very old) and he was
soon to come into his inheritance. He paid
his addresses to my aunt and sort of fasci-
nated her with his elegant manners and all
that, but he didn’t touch her heart at all,
Belmont said, and then there was another
lover, a real duke in his own right, old and
had grown up daughters but no sons, and
he fairly persecuted Aunt Dilliway.”

[Column 3]
	“For goodness sake, Pamela, what was
your Aunt Dilliway’s name? She couldn’t
have been called Aunt Dilliway when she
