[Column 2]
the notice with a sketch of her life, but ex-
pect to publish it in the “Exponent.” It
will certainly be of special interest.
	For the benefit of those not acquainted
with the circumstances of the first organiza-
tion and particulars, etc., we republished in
the February 1, 1899, number, the minutes
as prepared by Sister Eliza R. Snow, the
secretary appointed at that time, and who
carefully prepared them from the record
for publication in the first numbers of the
Woman’s Exponent, June 1, and 15, 1872.
We hope most sincerely that the sisters
will preserve these minutes and make them
a part of the record kept of the society in
their respective wards, that hereafter they
may have them for reference. If the sisters
would be more choice of the “Exponent,”
they might have information at hand on
many subjects when occasion came that
items were needed for use. Every society
should have it for the benefit of those who
cannot afford to take it, and every president
should have it for her own use, in order
that she may be posted on general society
matters, and because of any instructions
given through its columns from the presid-
ing board.
	The 17th of March marks an event of
great interest to the sisters and to all wo-
men, and we know why and how it is so
very important an epoch in the history of
the world. Since that time hundreds and
perhaps thousands of women’s organiza-
tions have sprung up on both continents, in
many countries and upon the islands of the
sea: some benevolent like our own, some
for reform, some literary, historical, genalog-
ical, scientific, political and religious.
	All the various associations and societies
have vast influence in the world towards
enlightenment, refinement and culture.
Many great reforms have been wrought
through the efforts of the women along
these lines, and what may we not expect in
the next half century of progressive work.
	Of the Relief Society great things will
certainly be expected, such as promoting
more substantially the silk industry and
other like enterprises, so as to employ a
large number of women and children, that
the young generation may not be allowed
to grow up in idleness, and be a tax upon
the community.
	More houses will be built suitable for
aged women so as to avoid paying rent, for
building material may be obtained even
without much cash, or at any rate with
economy in disposing of articles made at
working meetings; building material may
thus be procured and work on houses paid 
for. This has been done already in
some places where there has been judicious
management by those in charge of affairs.
	If the Relief Society stands, as it should,
first of woman’s organizations, there should
be a bureau of information with suitable
(not extravagant) headquarters where
strangers and women from all parts of the
world might converse with the women of
the society upon such matters as pertain to
the welfare of humanity, and get correct
views and opinions of the work in which
the women of the Latter-day Saints are en-
gaged. May that good time hasten on and
the sisters feel their labors are in the line
of progress, and the society become in real-
ity what has been expected by those who
laid the foundation of this organization, and
worked so faithfully until called to labor
in a higher sphere. In this connection we 
may mention reverently Sisters Eliza R.
Snow, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Phebe

[Column 3]
Woodruff, Sarah M. Kimball, Mercy R.
Thompson, Marinda M. Hyde, Elizabeth
Howard and many others whose names will
stand in golden letters on the Roll of Honor.


