STATE HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.

	The State Historical Society held its
second annual meeting in the lecture hall
of the Templeton building, Jan. 16, Hon.
Franklin D. Richards, president of the soci-
ety presiding. The hall was well filled
and the program was instructive.
	Commencing Mrs. Browning rendered
“Sweet Bird of Spring,” accompanied on
the piano by Spencer Clawson Jr. Prayer
was offered by Hon. O. F. Whitney.
	Governor Wells was not able to be pres-
ent, but in the paper he contributed and
which was read by Hon. O. F. Whitney,
he expressed his sympathy with the work
of the society and pledged his support in
every possible way.
	President Richards delivered his annual
address, in which he reviewed the work of
kindred societies, offered suggestions to
members, and called attention to the great


field of usefulness before the Utah society.
	Dr. J. E. Talmage’s paper, The Material
of History, considered the subject from a
scientific standpoint, and took occasion to
suggest action on the part of the State
against vandalism, which had led to the de-
struction of many important relics of by-
gone ages.
	An address by Mme. Mila Tupper May-
nard upon the Culture Value of History
was able and interesting.
	Don C. Maguire dealt with the Pre-historic
Races of the Southwest, referring to the evi-
dence of such that had come under his per-
sonal observation throughout an area of
country extending from the Gulf of Cali-
fornia on the southwest, to the Snake River
on the north. In it he referred to explor-
ing work done by himself and Professor
Montgomery formerly of the State univer-
sity, among the mounds and caverns at
Paragoonah in Iron county, where they un-
earthed some twenty-five human skeletons,
of persons who undoubtedly had met death
by violence ages ago. Mr. Maguire said the
State was full of such evidence and he re-
garded the Historical Society as having a
great work before it.
	Benediction was pronounced by C. R.
Savage, after which the society elected
officers for the ensuing year, F. D. Richards
being re-elected president; Isabella Cameron
Brown, vice president; J. R. Letcher, re-
cording secretary; J. T. Hammond, cor-
responding secretary, L. S. Hills, treasurer;
Mrs. Antoinette B. Kinney, librarian.


