DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

	At the annual meeting of the State Soci-
ety of the Daughters of the Revolution held
Friday, March 8, at 2 p. m. at the hand-
some residence of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth,
139 E. South Temple St., this city, a
large number of the members were present
and a few invited guests. The parlors were
elaborately draped and decorated for the oc-
casion with red, white and blue in all avail-
able places, and the dear old flag itself was
most conspicuous of all. Everything be-
tokened a gala occasion. The meeting was
held in the library opening out of the par-
lor where flags and colors were abundant.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. George A.
Smith, one of the most distinguished wo-
men in Utah. Piano music, “The Star
Spangled Banner,” by Miss Olea Shipp.
Minutes of meetings were read by the re-
cording secretary, Miss Julia Farnsworth,
also letters from the general secretary by
the corresponding secretary, Lucy W. Smith.
Music by Miss Shipp, “Red White and
Blue March.” A recess was taken and the
ladies repaired to the dining room, which
like the parlors had been draped with the
national colors. On the tables which were
artistically arranged were sweet-scented
flowers, snowy linen and dainty china, all
added to the delicious menu prepared for
the delectation of the guests. Mrs. Farns-
worth as hostess anticipated every wish and
the hour spent at the banquet was most de-
lightfully entertaining. Miss Farnsworth
was a charming toast mistress and displayed
great tactfulness in introducing each toast
and giving something original of the subject.
The veterans of the Revolution were not for-
gotten, nor were the mothers and “Our Flag”
was royally toasted.
	After the banquet, meeting was called to
order for the consideration of other matters
and Miss Shipp favored the company with a
song, La Separazione, (Rossine) prayer by
the chaplain, and an adjournment was taken
to the regular meeting, March 16, at 3 p.m.,
Templeton Building.
	All, both members and guests, expressed
themselves gratified with the success of the
first annual meeting.


