POLITICS.

	Politics! Politics!! Party! Party!! Party
politics, till one’s soul is sick of the words
and all their paltry meanings! The parti-
sans of every party plow the whole field of
history, past, present and to come, for roots
of laudation of their party. According
to them every blessing which ever did,
does now, or ever will, descend like rain on
the just and the unjust, from a famine in
India or the sinking of a hostile fleet, to six-
teen chickens at one hatch, is directly trac-
able to the wisdom, forethought and phil-
anthropy of Our Party; and all the ills of
life from a cyclone or a labor strike to old
Brindle dead in the lucern patch, or a sliver
under your thumb nail, was just as surely 
caused by the ignorance, greed and general
mismanagement of Your Party.
	When one party puts a name at its head
that bristles with as many serpents of men-
ace as the head of Medusa, and you talk of
scratching it off, what an outcry is raised
about “going against the party.”
	When two equally good and efficient men
are named on different tickets for one office,
and you choose to take into consideration
some difference—we will say in physical
strength or financial circumctances, to
favor the less fortunate, you raise another
hullabaloo about “damaging the party!”
I say “To Blazes with party” if it makes
slaves of the voters.
	In the present campaign scarcely a wo-
man’s name appears on any ticket. Since
woman’s citizenship is part of the State
Constitution, and since women are human,
they ought to participate in the privileges
as well as penalties of humanity. Canvas-
sers have been very active in calling at the
homes of the voters to inquire if they were
duly registered, and to recommend either
self of self’s party to your kind considera-
tion.
	You perhaps take the liberty to ask if
there was no woman in that or any other
party who could be trusted to fill that or
any other office. Some professed to be as
much at a loss as the questioner, and some
indulged in wild guesses.
	After carefully sifting the bushel of chaff
you find at the bottom a single grain of—
smut, which says “A woman’s name weak-


