DATE OF MEETING AND TOPICS TO BE
DISCUSSED.
Members and Friends of the National
Council of Women of the United States:
	The Third Triennial of the National
Council will convene in Washington, D. C.,
February 13. The formal opening will be
preceded by a religious service on the
afternoon of February 12. A prefatory
business meeting will be held in the par-
lors of the Arlington Hotel on Satur-
day evening, February 11. Business
meetings will occupy the mornings of Mon-
day, February 13, and Saturday, February
18. The formal opening will occur on the
evening of Monday, February 13. The
mornings of the 14th-17th, inclusive, and
the evenings of the 13th-18th, inclusive,
will be occupied by public sessions. The
formal adjournment, which is fixed for the
evening of Saturday the 18th, will be fol-
lowed on the afternoon of Sunday the 19th
by a religious service. The meetings will be
held in the Universalist Church, corner of
Tenth and G Streets.
	The term now closing, like the one
which closed with the Triennial of 1895,
has covered a period of four years, instead
of three as contemplated by the constitu-
tion. These years have been fraught with
events the significance of which all men
and women, who, actuated by humanitarian
sentiments, are working in any line of re-
form, feel keenly.
	The program of the Triennial will include:
	First. Discussion and action upon inter-
ests and plans relating strictly to council
affairs.
	Second. Resumes of the achievements of
the closing term and presentation of the
work of the immediate future.
	Third. Discussion of great public inter-
ests from woman’s point of view, including
such topics as expansion, imperialism,
peace and international arbitration, the con-
dition of Hawaiian women, etc.
	One of the most interesting features of
the council’s work will be the presentation
of the progress of the council idea abroad,
and of plans now maturing for the second
quinquennial of the International Council
to be convened in London, England, June
27, 1899, where the National Council of
the United States must have an adequate
representation.
	Council headquarters will be the Arling-
ton Hotel. The railroad secretary (elected
by the executive board at Omaha,) Miss
Lucy E. Anthony, may be addressed at
1830 Diamond Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
	It is the earnest hope of the executive

