SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.

	As lofty mountains whose crests ever
glisten with eternal snow hear strange and
weird music not sung by the sleepers in the
valley over whom they tower in grandeur
and majesty, so with the poet who hears
music in the floating wind whisperings in
the forest; to whom the sea tells its wonder-
ful secrets, seeing glory in the sunset, feel-
ing peace in the moonlight and intuitively
understanding the melody of birds.
	Like the chords of a finely strung instru-
ment is his soul. A rough wind jars its
music; an unskilled hand produces discord
which the careless never heed, yet to the
mind so delicately attuned a rude shock is
ever the result. The poet is also a dream-
er. The fleecy clouds piled high up in the
heavens are castles to him, wherein dwell
the children of his fancy. Sometimes they
sail away in waters deep and blue; some-
times climbing the shining hills which but
reflect the glories of the City Golden; some-
times as swans sailing on and on over the
rippling waves of a great sea, till low down
the horizon they are lost to view where all
things seem to end.
	Such a beautiful mind was Sarah E.
Carmichael’s. Born in Long Island, but
early coming to Utah when only a few scat-
tered houses marked the site of its present
principal city. In the lowly walks of life,
education but limited, to her inspired soul
the Bible was an open book, its lore her de-
light, even as the sky so richly painted
with varying sunsets, reflecting over the
Great Salt Lake like the glory of burning
worlds hanging high over the mountains,
the changing panorama fading away, the
gorgeous amber and gold, to paler, softer
tints as the day-god sinks to rest where the
line of water and sky meets. A throb of dis-
appointment falls coldly on the heart that
sight can go no farther. A child of Nature
she read from her wonderful book, under-
standing her secret laws intuitively, know-
ingeven more than she taught her.
	She needed not to go to Switzerland to
see the majesty of God displayed in her
wondrous snow-clad mountains, her wild
scenery, her ravishing sunsets. No! as a
child she accompanied her parents in a pro-
saic way across the wild plains and rugged
mountains, that here her poetical soul might
see and feel the glories so famed in that far
of land. Like an imprisoned bird regaining
its freedom are her bursts of song; deep,
well nigh unutterable her sympathy; and
the spirit of prophecy falls heavy on her
heart, as the clouds of the future, drawn
slightly aside, the stern hand of Fate re-
veals a dark river on whose banks she cries
for a prayer, that her boat may be safely
guided over its broad bosom.
	As her years increased so was she shy
and deeply sensitive. Out of tune with
her surroundings, not harmonious with her
family, to whom she belonged only by
birth, this child of thought sighed for the
companionship that she had never known.
	At the age of eighteen she began sending
some of her verses to the Deseret News for
publication. At first the genuineness was
doubted; people wondered that so gifted a
writer lived among them, yet to them un-
known. Friends began to gather around
her, and she was sometimes spoken of as
the “Lily of the Valley.” Among others
her songs touched the heart of Dr. William-
son who was stationed here as an army sur-
geon, and from a feeling of interest

