[Column 2]
	Sister Martha A. Morris who had just re-
turned from Europe spoke a few moments.
She said she had been to get genealogy,
but she had testified of the Gospel where-
ever opportunity offered. She had borne
her testimony to her relatives forty years
ago and she bore it again to them and told
them she would leave them without excuse.
	Sister Jane James rejoiced in living in
these days. Sister McMaster thanked God
that she had been permitted to come forth
in this generation. Thought it was our
business to secure God for ourselves and
not criticise others.
	Sister Jane A. Albrand spoke of the way
God cares for His children,. He preserves
them on land and sea. Sister Jane Powell
said she had walked many miles to preach
to her relatives but not one of them had
been so favored of the Lord as to accept
the Gospel but herself. Said she and her
daughter had been privileged to go into the
Temple and do the work for over one thou-
sand. 
	Sister Kiddle bore testimony to the power
of prayer and spoke of the great desire she
had to come to Zion, and how thankful she
was to her Heavenly Father she had been
permitted to do so.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of the great
wrong we did in criticising those placed
over us. Said her idea of a Latter-day
Saint was to be kind and not get angry, pay
your tithing, donations and Relief Society
donations, go to your meetings promptly,
be careful of your criticisms, watch and
pray and do good to all. Wished all a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
	Counselor Stevenson said since we had
last met Sister Sarah M. Kimball had passed
away, she was one of the board of these
Saturday meetings. She wished all a Mer-
ry Christmas and a Happy New Year and
invited all to bring friends enough with
them to fill the house next meeting. An
invitation was sent to all the Relief Society
presidents and counselors to attend the
closing exercises of Dr. Robert’s nursing
class.
	Sister Morris and congregation sang “O,
my Father.” Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Benediction, Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
