EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In Tooele County, Utah, a woman re-
corder and collector has been appointed.
In Box Elder County Miss Fanny Graehl,
who served last term as recorder, was again
elected; also in Millard County Mrs. Deli-
lah King Olsen was re-elected for this term.
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates of Provo, editor
of the Young Woman’s Journal, has been
appointed by Mrs. May Wright Sewall
Active Chairman of the Press Committee of
the National Council of Women of the
United States.
	The Utah Legislature is spending most
of its time the last three weeks balloting
for a Senator and making eloquent speeches.
The two women naturally drift into the
same line of action, notwithstanding they
are both strong-minded. The fact is there
should have been more women elected,
then their influence might have turned the
scale and perhaps less time used in making
choice of a suitable Senator.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the
management of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899, unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due, in
addition to tbe printed matter.
	Tuesday, January 31 was the anniversary
of the birthday of President Zina D. H.
Young, familiarly and lovingly known
among the sisters as “Aunt Zina,” and in
commemoration of the time members and
relatives of the Young family were invited
to meet at the residence of Mrs. Phebe Y.
Beatie to spend a few hours of the after-
noon, to pay their loving tribute
to this distinguished Mother in Israel,
whose whole life has been spent in doing
good. Everywhere her works praise her
and her name is spoken of lovingly by
young and old. May her useful and
beautiful life be prolonged until she has
finished all her heart desires to do, and her
name and her works of love and charity
never be forgotten by the generation in
which she has taken such an active part,
but be handed down in the annals of the
Church as one of its noblest heroines.
	On the same day occurs the birthday
anniversary of President Jane S. Richards
who was born two years later. Both
these sisters were born in Jefferson Co ,
New York State, and have been intimately
associated ever since the organization of
the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Mrs. Rich-
ards is at present sojourning for a brief time
it in Los Angelos, California; her husband,
President Franklin D. Richards, has gone
over quite recently for a visit. Their son,
Hon. C. C. Richards and wife are with
them, and no doubt they are enjoying the
happy occasion and celebrating the birth-
day with all due ceremony, gifts and trib-
utes of love in that land of flowers, fruits
and sunshine. The “Exponent” extends
loving congratulations to these famous wo-
men, who have assisted in laying the
foundation of one of the largest societies of
women organized in this country. May it
be their good fortune to see much accom-

