[Column 1]
ens the party ticket, because—because—the
women voters will not vote for a woman.”
	Fellow women, is this contemptible thing
true? or is it only a dingy veil used to
screen the faces of the men voters who will
not vote for a woman?
	If it is true let us begin down at a b c,
and organize little Civil Government classes
and study the Declaration of Independence,
the Constitution of the United States, and
the condition of society and of the country
at the time these documents were framed.
As we advance we might brush up on the
Salic Law the Common Law and give spec-
ial attention to such points, as Marriage
Laws, Guardianship of Minors, Inheritance,
The Widow’s Incumbrance, and many
shining spots where light is to be obtained.
As side studies we might look into some of
the procedures of the Courts of Common
Pleas and learn by eye and ear witness how
the laws materialize in practice; and if, after
completing the course in these branches of
education, we still decline to vote for wo-
men, our case is hopeless; and our masters
should pierce our ears with awls against the
doorposts, that we may remain their ser-
vants forever.
	If it is not true that we prefer in all
cases to vote for men, if the clean sweep of
women’s names from all the tickets is only
a selfish grab of our brothers at the “hon-
ors and emoluments” of public duty, we
should express our displeasure in plain, un-
equivocal terms, and see that it does not
happen another time.
	One canvasser whom I asked concerning
this matter said, “All those men offered
themselves for those places and women did
not. I think that is the way it happened.
People must ask for what they want in this
world.”
	“Is that not branding us a nation of
office seekers?” I asked. “Well, yes, that’s
about the size of it,” he replied.
	Fellow citizens, is this true? Are we a
nation of office seekers? Is there no other
and better way of distributing public trusts
than placing them in the keeping of men or
women who importune for them? Is our
political maxim “To the victor belong the
spoils?” Where then is patriotism? Dead
or only sleeping?
	Oh, that we could be patriots without be-
ing partisans, and that principles of pure
right, not time-serving policy, could be the
mainspring of our actions, private and pub-
lic! Would we could hear more about the
general weal of our whole country, and less
about the East and the West; more about
developing the grand resources, and less
about “Corners and Giant Trusts;” more
about prosperous rural communities, and
less about millionaires.
	Would that the poor might receive such
aid and favor as would lift them out of their
misery, rather than be given additional bur-
dens of taxation and the necessity of paying
“protected” prices for the necessaries of
life. Would that “protection” would pro-
tect the weak as well as the strong, the con-
sumer as well as the producer.
	If protection be the great beneficence we
are told, then give us plenty of it, that our
crying needs may be satisfied. Why should
not timber, water, coal etc., as well as land
belong to the general government as trustee
in trust for the public? They are all mat-
ters of general and urgent necessity, and
monopoly by the few against the many
should be made impossible.
	Why should not railroads, banks and all

