[Column 2]
	She was a teacher in the Sabbath School,
secretary in the Relief Society, second
counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A., and secre-
tary in the Y. M. and Y. L. Improvement
Association; also held the position of school
trustee and postmistress. She was born
April 28, 1873, at Vernon, Tooele Co., Utah.
	On Friday 20, her angel like form was
borne in a beautiful white casket decorated
with wreaths and blooming roses, to the
meeting house where the funeral services
were held. The stand was draped in white
and decorated with flowers, giving the
whole a beautiful appearance. The choir
sang “Guide Me to Thee.” Prayer was
offered by Brother David Bennion. Sing-
ing, “Wanted on the Other Side.” Consol-
ing remarks were made by Stake President
H. S. Gowan and our beloved Bishop J. C.
Sharp. The choir sang “Sister Thou
wert Mild and Lovely.” Benediction by
Neils Fredrickson.
	The remains were conveyed to the ceme-
tery in a light vehicle drawn by white
horses. The dedicatory prayer was offered
by President H. S. Gowan. The choir
sang “There is Sweet Rest in Heaven.”
The body was then carefully sheltered by
mother earth to rest in peace.
							C.
FRISTENCE MAGDALENE ERIKSEN.
	It is our painful duty to announce that
on December 4, 1898, occurred the death of
Sister Fristence Magdalene Eriksen from
heart failure.
	Deceased was born in Otostrup, Wolstrup
Sogn, Denmark, on the 11th of March 1857.
She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1880 and
emigrated to Utah in 1881. She was a
member of the Newton ward, Cache Stake
of Zion. She died in full faith of the Gos-
pel and with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. She was a member of the Relief
Society and always took an active part in it.
	The following resolutions were adopted
by the society in her memory:
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas in the providence of God it
has pleased Him to call away this our be-
loved sister to a higher sphere, and we
reverence Him who holds the destinies of
men and who permits nothing to come to
pass but for a wise and glorious purpose; and
	Whereas at the time of her death she
was an active member of the Relief Society
and was held in high esteem by all who
knew her, for her noble qualities, therefore
be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the
Relief Society of Newton ward tender to
the bereaved family our heartfelt sympathy
and condolence for the sad loss they have
sustained of a faithful wife and a loving
sister; and be it further
	Resolved, That a copy of this preamble
and resolutions be recorded in the minutes
of the Relief Society, and a copy printed in
the Woman’s Exponent.
		ELIZABETH FUNK,
		MARY JENKINS,
		MAGDALENE PETERSON,
						Committee.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT AND 
CONDOLENCE. 
	In loving respect to Sister Anna Lang-
hurst Layne, one of our pioneer women
and a faithful teacher in the Cardston Re-
lief Society, Canada.

[Column 3]
	She was born February 22, 1849, at
Stow on the Woods, Glostershire, England.
Died December 23, 1898, in Cardston after
an illness of two days, leaving a husband
and ten children to mourn her departure.
	Sister Layne came to Cardston with her
husband and family in the year 1887. She
was true to her religion and her covenants,
having embraced the higher order of mar-
riage for eternity she has now a claim to a
higher celestial glory. She was always an
energetic and faithful worker in the Relief
Society, a sympathetic and faithful nurse,
ever ready to assist the sick and the poor
and to cheer up the downcast; a loving
wife, a devoted mother, looking after her
children with a love unceasing. We feel
that her wise counsel will be heeded by her
children, (the youngest of whom is eight
years of age) that they will profit by her
worthy example.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His
infinite wisdom has seen fit to call home
our beloved sister, Anna Layne,
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister
Layne we are deprived of the society of a
loving sister and a dear friend, one who
was always alive to her duties and will be
greatly missed; so willing in the hour of
need, many sad hearts have been brightened
by her cheerful words of encouragement;
therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize
with those who are bereft and are bound by
the nearest and dearest ties, and we share
with them the hope of a happy reunion in
the bright hereafter. We pray that heaven’s
choicest blessings may attend the bereaved
family, and the spirit of the Lord be with
them to comfort and cheer them.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the bereaved family, one placed
on record and one sent to the Woman’s
Exponent for publication.
			SARAH B. DAINES, Pres.
			C. ELNORA WIGHT, Sec.
