was young.”
	“No, but she never will be called any-
thing but Miss Dilliway by people, and all
her letters come addressed to Miss Dilliway,
and I never knew she had another name
till Belmont said to me one day ‘Penelope
Dilliway,’ and I turned on her and said
‘who’s Penelope Dilliway please?’ ‘Penelope
she’s your great aunt herself.’ Before that
I had never thought about her having any
other name.”
	“Now do tell us about the three suitors
and how it all happened and she never
married either one of them. And, besides,
one day you said when your Aunt Dilliway
was a young girl they used to have gay
times at Christmas in England,” chimed in
the romantic young Miss who first asked
for the story.
	“And so they did, and I’ve heard of their
great doings and Belmont has told me
about Xmas in France, too.”
	“Well we haven’t time to go over all the
countries, finish this one story.”
	“So I will if you’ll let me, now keep
quiet. You understand there were three
men all in love with Aunt Dilliway. First
there was Harry Severn, then the young
heir-at-law, then the real duke. Two were
poor and one was rich, but Charles Plymp-
ton had ‘great expectations,’ and the Duke
of Weldmore he wanted a young wife hop-
ing to have a son.”
	“Did your aunt tell you that or did you
read it in the letters?”
	“No, Belmont told me. My aunt would
be wild with rage if she suspected I had
ever heard of it.”
	“It strikes me that your French gover-
ness ought to be sent to Halifax, but it
serves people right who set themselves up
like that, as if their children were so much
better than other peoples. I suppose that’s
toryism, but it isn’t American,” said Julia.
	“On the same principle,” said Gratia, a
very demure, little girl, “we are all sent to
this select school for girls, and simply be-
cause we are not to go with all the other
girls in the villiage, I tell you girls, its a
question of money. I heard my mother
say, ‘I shall send Gratia to a girls’ select
school as we can’t afford a governess.’ ”
	“So you are a little tory, too, are you?”
said Julia.
	“Now girls,” put in Pamela, “if you
are going to dispute about politics I shall
never finish this story and you’ll all dream
about it, and tomorrow will be Sunday, and
my aunt will make me read the Bible and
sing hymns all day, she’s a Puritan, there’s
no denying that, but she can’t take me to
meeting with her, that’s part of the bar-
gain, and uncle never goes any way. Now
where did I leave off, if you say much more
I shall not know whether I’m a tory or a
rebel.”
	“They’re both the same,” echoed two
or three at once.”
	“I am sure I don’t know where I left
off.”
	“You left off about Xmas time,” said
Jane Willis, “and that’s what we all want
to know about, I don’t care which of the three
men your aunt was in love wtth, if you
would only tell us about an English Christ-
mas in one of those great stone castles, or
large old-fashioned mansions, of which we
have so often heard yet know so little.”
	The girls were so inquisitive and inter-
rupted Pamela with questions all the way


