		CAROLINE HARRIS POULTON.

	Died at her residence on Sunday, November 6,
1898, Caroline Harris Poulton,wife of James Poul-
ton, after a severe a d lingering illness, which
she bore with patience and fortitude. Deceased


was born at Straford on Avon, February 4, 1829.
	She received the Gospel in early childhood,
being baptized without the knowledge of her
father, her mother being a faithful Latter-day 
Saint She was married to Elder James Poulton
October 14, 1852. She with her husband set sail
on the vessel Amazon for Salt Lake City, June 4,
1863. They crossed the plains with ox teams and
arrived in Salt Lake City, October 4, of the same
year. They have resided in the 6th ward from
that time, her husband being the leader of that
choir since the fall of 1864, and Sister Poulton
being an active singer for many years in the same.
	She was a faithful worker in the Relief Society,
being a teacher which labor she performed for 
many years, as long as her health would permit.
She held this position unti the day of her depart-
ure from this life. She was also one of the
wheat committee.
	She ever proved a faithful wife and loving
mother. She was blessed with twelve children,
seven sons a[-]d five daughters, four of whom have
passed away She leaves six sons and two
daughters and thirty-four living grandchildren to
mourn her loss. One of her sons has recently re-
turned from filling a fai[-]hful mission.
	Her life was an eventful one, she enduring all
the hardships incident to early days. Her health
had been failing for some time. After undergo-
ing an operation twelve months ago she seemed
to rally, but three months previous to her demise
she was taken with another severe attack, but her
faith was strong in the Lor[-] and His ordinances, 
she being desirous of receiving with her husband
all the blessings that can be obtained in the
House of the Lord. The brethren, and the sis-
ters of the Relief Society rallied around her and
exercised such faith and unremitting kindness,
and through t[-]e administration of the Gospel she
was once more restored, the physicians having
given her up. [-]hrough the mercy of the Lord
she was able to go to the Salt Lake Temple and
there with [-]er husband received all the blessings
that can be obtained in the house of the Lord.
Her work being completed it pleased the Lord to
call her home, and she passed peacefully away.
	The funeral services were held in the 6th ward
assem[-]l  hall on the 8th inst. Many timely re-
marks were made by President Joseph E. Taylor,
Bishop James C. Watson, Brother Green and
others The coffin was beautifully covered with
flowers from loving friends,and to those who were
there it seemed that Sister Poulton was not dead 
but sleeping.

