GOLDEN WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.

 “Marriage is the life-long miracle.
The self begetting wonder daily fresh.”

	On Friday evening, Dec. 30, 1898, a
grand programme and picnic party was
given in the ward hall to do honor to
Brother Richard R. and Jane C. Birkbeck
on the fiftieth anniversary of their wedding
day. It was an impromptu affair, but,
however, a great number of guests assem-
bled to enjoy themselves with the aged and
highly respected couple. Numerous selec-
tions were rendered, both musical and
otherwise, and after all had feasted sumptu-
ously a great deal was gathered up and dis-
tributed to the poor the next day. All
who took part proclaimed it one of the best
parties of the kind ever given in Cedar City.
Grandma Birkbeck, as she is known by all
the young people, although in her seventy-
seventh year was on nearly every floor, and
seemed to dance as sprightly as many a
woman scores of years her junior. During
the festivities a purse was made up and
something over twenty dollars was presen-
ted to the honored couple with the compli-
ments and best wishes of all present.
	Though never having enjoyed the great
and glorious blessing of children, yet they
are loved and respected by all who know
them and have caused many a ray of sun-
shine to penetrate where all seemed dark-
ness, and made hearts beat with renewed
hope and gladness where sadness reigned
supreme. Many are the homes that have
been made happy by their visits to the sick
room.
	Sister Birkbeck has filled various positions


in the Relief Society, and at present holds
the office of Stake treasurer.
Respectfully, 
	VIOLET URIE,
		R. S. Sec., Cedar City.

“O, the music and beauty oft lose their worth,
When one heart only joys in their smile;
But the union of hearts gives that pleasure its
	birth,
Which beams on the darkest and coldest of
	earth
Like the sun on her own chosen isle;
It gives to the fireside of winter, the light,
The glow and the glitter of spring—
O, sweet are the hours when the fond hearts
	unite,
As softly the years in their innocent flight
Glide away on a motionless wing.”

	The “Exponent” adds hearty congratu-
lations, and ardent wishes for the eternal
future of such a union. May all that truest
love could ask for this venerable couple be
theirs, of health, happiness, prosperity and
an abundance of love in this world, and
these with the hope in their souls of a
glorious resurrection of lives throughout
the endless ages of eternity is the desire of
the writer.—E. B. W.


