U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. met in the "Ex-
ponent” office in the Templeton, January
31, 1899, President Ella W. Hyde in the
chair. Opening prayer was offered by Dr.
E. R. Shipp. Roll call responded to by
sentiments from George Crabbe.
	Under new business the subject of the
traveling library came up for consideration.
On motion of Mrs. E. B. Wells the club
voted to pay the annual dollar for the
library. President Hyde stated that any
book given by club members would be
gladly received by the library committee,
Mrs. Moore chairman.
	An interesting and charming paper on
the Bon Marche was given by Mrs. Lawler,
giving a life like account of that great
institution in the gay city of Paris. Anec-
dotes by some of the ladies and some dis-
cussion followed. An original poem,
Night Winds, by Mrs. L. D. Alder, was
next read. It was intensely suitable for
the wild and boisterous night. A very
meritorious paper on the Khartoum and
Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener, the famous
Sidar of the Egyptian army, was read
with pleasing effect by Mrs. Lizzie S. Wil-
cox
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, president of the
National Woman’s Relief Society, and an
honorary member of the club, celebrates
her 78th birthday today. This is also the
76th birthday of Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
vice president of the N. W.. R. S., who is,
now visiting in Los Angelos. The club
extends best wishes to theso two veterans
in the cause of women, and wishes them
fair sailing over life’s uncertain sea.
	After some discussion an adjournment
was taken for one month. Dismissed by
Mrs. Doolan.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec, pro tem.


AMERICAN SILK. Commenting on the 
conditions governing the trade, the Silk
Association of America through its secre-
tary, has this to say: “Rising prices in the
raw-silk markets of the world have pro-
duced a decided rise in the prices of raw
silk in this market during the last thirty
days. This naturally necessitates a rise in
all silk products, and some of the branches
of the trade have formaly agreed in an
advance of prices. In this country at pres-
ent there are 27,000 power looms for broad
silk weaving,and 6,000 for ribbon weaving.
During the year there have been a number
of additional plants established in this
country by foreign firms and naturally
there has been some extension of facilities
by our older manufacturers. While addi-
tional facilities of manufacture is a gratify-
ing omen, it also carries with it an appre-
hension of facilities unduly increased. It
is hardly necessary to say that overpro-
duction is about as bad as a sluggish mar-
ket; in fact it conduces to it. The raw silk
supply on which our manufacturers depend
is indicated in the following figures.

