[Column 2]
	Brother Clawson could not stop blessing
Sister Wright and Sister Reese. Sister
Mary Wright and Sister Zilla Reese were
each presented with a handsome rocking
chair as a present from the sisters of Box
Elder in acknowlegement of their labors.
	Sister Mary E. Wright said, “This sur-
prise touches a tender cord, my sisters. I
feel well in the Gospel, we have enjoyed a
feast today, the spirit of the Lord has been
here. It is well with Sister Widerborg, al-
though I miss her.” Sister Zilla Reese
said, “My brethren and sisters I feel to ap-
preciate the kindness you have shown us to-
day. I do miss Sister Widerborg because
she was so kind to me. I feel to continue
in our good labor, and pray the Lord to
bless us each and everyone.”
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen was the next
speaker. She gave vent to her appreciation
of the Relief Society. Counselor Louisa
Peters said, “When I reflect on the sisters I
am called to succeed I feel to pray that I
may follow in their footsteps.
	President Kelley said, “I believe there is
a feeling of kindness in every heart. I be-
lieve you all endorse that which has been
done here, all who do raise your hand.”
(Unanimous) “I do not feel capable of ex-
pressing my feelings. I was acquainted
with Aunt Lenora Snow Morley[-] as noble
and sweet a woman as ever lived. Then
Aunt Harriet was so energetic and interest-
ed in the Relief Society, always working
for it. Then the Lord raised up another
in Olivia Widerborg, who was just as good
as the others. Now we have a new presi-
dency and I have no doubt that they are
just as able to carry out this labor. I am-
pleased that you have honored the former
counselors, that their labors are appreciated
and their hearts are made glad, their hus-
bands’ hearts are made glad in the spirit
world, Brother Wright, Brother Reese and
Brother Harvey Pierce are rejoicing to see
their wives honored.”
	President Watkins said, “I realize the
spirit of God is here, there is a feeling of
affection and love.” Spoke of the labors
of the Relief Society, holding up the hands
of the priesthood, storing up wheat for the
time of scarcity. "What a glorious work
you are engaged in my sisters! Who can
tell the result? In your labors of love seek
the counsel of those who are placed over
you and be ready to assist these new officers
as they are ready to assist the priesthood."
	Bishop Jensen said, “I have known these
sisters who have been elected for a long
time. This is a good association and a
great blessing to us, no one knows this bet-
ter than the Bishops. I was much pleased
to see what was done for the sisters, I ap-
preciate them, I know they have earned it.
I am glad we have so many good sisters.
May we be united in doing good.”
	President S. P. Booth said, “I do not
feel capable to represent the Stake, I hope
in the spring we will be able to visit all the
settlements. I think we cannot do too
much for those who have labored so long
and so faithfully. I know the Lord will
not forsake me if I do my part. I pray the
Lord to bless you all, my sisters, with the
spirit of your calling.”
	Congregation arose and sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Brother Crawford.
