ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
======================================================================

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City. 
4. CRISMON & NICHOLS, 229-231 So. West Temple, Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City. 
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. CUTLER BROS. CO., 36 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
19. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
20. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City. F. J. NICHOLS  C. C. CRISMON COLD TESTS Melted, Assayed, Purchased Cyanide, Concentration, Amalgamation CRISMON & NICHOLS ASSAYERS and CHEMISTS Office and Laboratory 229 & 231 So. West Temple St. Wasatch 2.393. P. O. Box 78 Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EIVSBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 3^ears in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah modern methods complete equipment efficient service SPECIAL NOTICE SONS & DAUGHTERS of the UTAH PIONEERS -THE L D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE was established by your FATHERS for YOU. OPEN ALL THE YEAR. Day and Evening Sessions. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 
Vol. I. May, 1914. No. 5 Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents' Copy Entered as second-class matter on February IS, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MEMORIES. The seventeenth of March has come to be recognized as a day set apart for special significance to commemorate the day; and occasion when the first woman's society of any great importance was organized, and more especially to emphasize the fact that the organization was effected under the Priesthood and by the authority of the same. It is my idea that this society of women was established previous to any such organization of women in the world. We know that the Prophet Joseph Smith at that time turned the key of knowledge for women, and the record of this edict, if it can be so called, is on the pages of history and the fulfillment thereof is apparent. Since that time woman everywhere among civilized nations has been struggling for greater freedom from the conditions that had existed previously, and very much greater liberty has been brought about towards the elevation of womanhood, until greater progress and a higher civilization for all has been attained. This fact has been proclaimed and reiterated until it has become established in the minds of all our own people, and many others have been convinced of its validity. We need not now dwell especially upon this matter in its broad sense, but we do desire that our sisters in the Church should realize the great importance of this Society and appreciate its benefits, not only in a temporal service, giving relief to the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted; but also in its educational development spiritually, to those who come 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN within its influence. Humility brings down the blessings of heaven upon all who really and truly seek to know the will of the Lord, and to observe the rule, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." While perhaps none of us in this mortal state can quite fulfill this commandment, we can at least come nearer to this condition by constantly improving our minds and following the example of the Master. Kind words are like healing balm to those in sorrow or in trouble. Smiles and a cheerful countenance are helpful. In the seventy-two years since this organization was established thousands have been thus benefited but those who have ministered to the needy, the sick and the suffering have received even greater blessing in their own hearts and souls than have those to whom they have ministered. We hold that the best education for women and girls is that which they gain through charity and benevolence; one cannot too deeply appreciate the benefits and results of mingling together in these works of love and usefulness. To enter into any dissertation that would give even a faint idea of the work itself as a whole, would require pages of manuscript; "the half can never be told." But as a Society we are trying to gain from time to time more details of this work and to establish facts that will strengthen the faith of the younger generation and lead them to follow in the footsteps of those who laid the foundation upon which they may build more effectively in the future. The first woman's jubilee that we have knowledge of was held in the great Tabernacle in this city March 17, 1892, when Zina D. H. Young presided and made the opening address. Her counselors, Sisters Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith, each spoke eloquently upon the beneficial work in which they were engaged and in the organizing of which they had traveled so extensively. Some of us who were younger wrote papers that were read by Apostle Abraham H. Cannon. Previous to this letters had been sent to all parts of the world where the Relief Society had been organized, asking that the seventeenth of March be celebrated as a Jubilee day at the same time that we observed the day here in the United States. We may truly say, therefore, that this Jubilee encircled the world. There were present at the great meeting in this city and participating in the exercises. President Joseph F. Smith, who offered prayer at high noon Apostles John Henry Smith, ; Abraham H. Cannon, James E. Talmage and President Angus M. Cannon, who also offered prayer. There were many other notable men and women present. BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 In three years from now will be another Jubilee, the seventy-fifth anniversary; and perhaps the event will be celebrated with greater magnificence than even the first jubilee. Many of those who participated in that memorable occasion in 1892, even among the younger ones, have joined the innumerable company on the other side. But we who are living should continue to testify and prove ourselves diligent in encouraging the generation of younger women, who have all the advantages of this wonderful age, to hold steadfast to the truths revealed through the great prophet, seer and revelator Joseph Smith. Our 3'ounger women should be valiant in proclaiming the truths which have been revealed, in defending the faith and bearing record of those who laid the foundation of the principles for which we stand today. It is a notable fact that as a people Mormon women have  always voted in a Church capacity the same as men whereas at that early time when the Church was in its infancy, no other people except the Quakers enjoyed that privilege. Looking forward into the future years, with the larger opportunities and the enlightenment of the people, what may not be expected of those who are living today? "When one looks at the many activities in which Mormon women of the  present day are taking part social, political, intellectual and  religious one is compelled to believe that no agency has done more towards correcting the morals and awakening latent thought and promoting self-helpfulness than the Relief Society of "Mormon Women." Being among the first, if not the very first of its kind, it has rendered signal service from its inception seventy-two years ago. Its founders an^ first members  have long since passed away not one now remains but the: writer of this brief paper has heard the story often repeated by those who were present at the time of the organization and were active in performing the works of charity and benevolence enjoined during the early stages of the work. Perhaps there is no one now living more familiar with the work in the beginning than the writer; and it is her strongest desire that our young women of today be made to comprehend the work of the early members who, without the facilities of the present time, comforted the sad and distressed, visited the widow and fatherless, and were like ministering angels going hither and thither on their errands of mercy and compassion. The Lord must have been very near to the women at that early period and braced them up for the new duty which had been given them of such great value to humanity. Nauvoo the beautiful, on the bank of the Mississippi, was a swampy country. Steamboats coming from New Orleans 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN brought the foreign emigrants, many of whom were sick when they landed and required constant care and special attention. But great faith was exercised not only by the converts, but also by those who ministered among them; instances of the power of God were shown. To be sure, the Prophet Joseph Smith assisted and advised the women workers, as did other great men of that day; and they officiated according to the pattern given them by the leaders of the Church. In the light of the twentieth century it is difficult to realize what these heroines had to encounter; but the recollection of their experiences and a comparison with the advantages of the present should appeal to the better nature and higher aspirations of all now engaged in the glorious work, and fill them with determination to render even more active service working; heart and soul and without thought of ceasing for the betterment of the race. "Till the war-drums throb no longer, and the battle-flags are furled In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world." Emmeline B. Wells. EDITORIAL. PEACE. The month of May, with its world-wide celebrations of peace, suggests the beauty and the value of this ideal condition, while it also brings to mind the dangers and difficulties of its counterfeit. What is peace? It is a condition of mind, it may be ours in the midst of sorrow and affliction, of poverty and alleged disgrace. It may also, however, take its flight in the midst of prosperity, health and congenial surroundings. Too many people fail to weigh their emotions in the balance of good judgment, and are swayed solely by their feelings and impulses. Latter-day Saints, if they but stop to consider, can easily define the quality of peace, and describe the persons who possess it. Peace is the harmony of the human soul with the Infinite will, I have seen mothers weeping over their children, wives desolate in their fresh widowhood, yet deep in their hearts lay the perfect peace that passeth understanding; for peace and joy are not necessarily close companions. The mother's heart may be torn with sorrow over the death of her beautiful babe, but there may be no quality in that sorrow which disturbs the RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 5 deep foundation of her perfect peace. If that mother stands helpless and distraught while her son or her daughter glides over the precipice of personal virtue, or apostasy, peace cannot be hers, for her heart is torn with the bitterness of a second death. If peace is ours when we are in harmony with Infinite law, how are we dispossessed of that exquisite quality? The answer is obvious. If we are out of harmony with our neighbors, with our husbands or wives, with those who are over us in the Relief Society or in the Church, there is no possibility of peace in our souls. We may be unconscious of the source of the constant misery which gnaws at our vitals, but a spirit of disturbance or rebellion against constituted authority in this Church, whether in the home, or in the broader fields of Church activity, will poison the very springs of our peace. But when we have conquered our stubborn pride, or shall have bowed in submission to the proper authority, then comes peace, heavenly peace. It is amusing, if not distracting, to listen to foolish people who see things only from surface indications, talking about the glories of peace. Such people would set aside the discipline of the home, the state, and the nation. They would have us believe that peace is only gained when the child, the youth, the man, or the nation pursues the foolish path of personal and national self-will. It is impossible for each child, or for each individual, to have his own way completely, and not thereby interfere with the rights and privileges of others. There must be a constant submission of one will to another, in order to have peace in a household, in a state, or in a nation. To give and to take is the universal law. Especially is this true in religious matters. He who spake as no man ever spake has told us that He came not to bring peace, but a sword; and He gave the one and only law by which we may achieve in the fullest degree that peace which we so ardently crave. Love thy neighbor as thyself, was his perfect counsel. In other words, seek the welfare of others, in preference to your own, or at least, with equal ardor and justice. Yet, in that consummation comes the point of the sword into our own hearts and into every discussion and problem, both in the home and in the nation. Discipline must necessarily precede peace. Do not forget that, you mothers, and grandmothers, if you would have peace in your homes, in your society, and in your community. Discipline your children and yourselves, before asking for the priceless boon of perfect peace. 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN May