[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: in Israel Mothers in Israel Mary A. S. Winters]

Mothers in Israel. Mary Ann Stearns Winters. DEPARTURE FROM COMMERCE. [We give in this number another of the vivid sketches written by that gifted pioneer mother, Mrs. Winters. These articles began in our last volume, and are given exactly as prepared by the author. No historical connecting links have been supplied, as our Church teems with such material. These sketches, fragmentary as they are, cast a food of light on those past, stormy days.  Editor.] On August 29, 1839, we left Commerce in a covered wagon with two horses, and traveled across the country toward the great lakes. Besides Brother Pratt and my mother there were the two little boys, Parley and Nathan, and myself; and also accompanying us were Brother Orson Pratt and Hyrum Clark, but they soon left us and went preaching through the country as they passed along. The first days of the journey I enjoyed very much as we were traveling over flower-decked prairies, and through beautiful groves. Best of all, we were again free and happy  not afraid of mobs and violence  in a land of friendliness, meeting sympathy on every hand. Brother Pratt was again at liberty  our protector was with us  he had started on a mission and was preaching wherever we stopped, the Saints received us joyfully and with open arms and hearts, asking innumerable questions of our trials and troubles in Missouri, and we little children who had been in the prison received no small share of their attention. love and sympathy. And the little Parley, the child of promise, was caressed and with tearful eyes hugged to the hearts of the motherly sisters who entertained us. And these people were all settled in comfortable homes with plenty around them  and after all that we had suffered and passed through, this journey seemed to me like a triumphal march through the land of promise. In a few days I took the ague and was very sick. When the fever came on, I suffered greatly with the jolting of the wagon, and thought I could not possibly endure it; but mother would encourage and comfort me, and as the hours rolled on, my fever would get lower and by the time we came to a stopping place, I would be able to get up and join with the other children. In about two weeks the chills left me, and by the time we arrived at Brother Anson Pratt's at Detroit, Michigan, I had fully recovered my health and could enjoy the company of Brother Pratt's children. The friendships then formed between us have continued through all our lives. Sister Pratt was a kind, motherly woman. 
 and gained the love and respect of her acquaintances; but I never saw her after, and when I again met my little friends they were motherless. After our happy visit with them for two or three weeks, we took a boat to cross the lake, and while on the boat a little incident occurred that made a lasting impression on my mind. Mother had bought some candy before starting  had given some to us children, and we were not to have any more for the present, but the hand-bag was in plain sight, and my love for candy overcame my obedience. I reached and took out a very few pieces. They were coriander seeds coated with sugar, about the size of a pill, and very rough. I walked away a few steps to eat my forbidden fruit, feeling very guilty, then gave a little hop to ease my conscience, when one of the pieces went the wrong way and I choked very badly and thought I would surely die, but someone caught me and began pounding me on the back when out came the candy and rolled across the floor, and I was relieve;! both in body and mind, for now mother knew about it, and I would not have to worry under a hidden guilt. When all was quiet again, mother drew me to her and talked very seriously to me about the sin of disobedience, and that -there was always a penalty for wrong-doing, and that this act of mine might have cost me my life  that things done in secret were always brought to light, and in some cases were to be proclaimed upon the housetop. All this made a very deep impression on my mind, for I felt that I had been very severely punished for what I had done; and in all the long years since then, I have seen her words verified in thousands of incidents. Nothing of importance occurred to me during the remainder of the journey, and we arrived in New York to find a large branch of the Church enjoying the faith of the gospel, and the meeting was a joyous one with the friends we had left two years before, as also with the new converts that flocked to meet us. We soon took up our abode in Mott street. and Sister Eliza Nelson provided the furniture to furnish the house and came to live with us. Oh, what more holy than a mother's love, That which endures all other ties above? That love which falters not when others fail, A lamp in life, a lamp o'er death's own vale! Though to the world we naked are and poor, Yet there a temple where we dwell secure. There is the sacred lamp, which burns for aye, Most steadfast love that dwells in mortal clay. There is the gift all pure of selfish aim, The mother's love, the one exhaustless flame! In mother's love, whatever else our lot, Oh, there the love which gives and wearies not! If life's one hope becomes but hope that's been, Yet on a