[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in February. THE ABRAHAMIC AGE. According to Taine, a noted French critic, there are three different things which produce the "elementary moral state" of a people: race, surroundings, and epoch. By race he means the "internal structure" of a people, that inherent nature and disposition "which man brings with him into the world," and which makes the different kinds of men we see all around us. "There is a natural variety of men, as of oxen and horses, some brave and intelligent, some timid and dependent, some capable of superior conceptions and creations, some reduced to rudimentary ideas and inventions." By surroundings Taine means whatever goes to influence a people from without. "The profound differences which are manifest between the German races, on the one side, and the Latin and the Greek, on the other side, arise for the most part from the differences between the countries in which they are settled: some in cold, moist lands, deep in rugged, marshy forests or on the shores of a wild ocean, beset by melancholy or violent sensations, prone to drunkenness and gluttony, bent on a fighting, blood-spilling life; others, again, within the loveliest landscapes, on a bright and pleasant sea-coast, enticed to navigation and commerce, exempt from gross cravings of the stomach, inclined from the beginning to social ways, to a settled organization of the state, to feelings and dispositions such as develop the art of oratory, the talent for enjoyment, the inventions, letters, arts." By epochs he means whatever happens to a race in its environment. Now, in Abraham and Sarah the Lord chose a man and a woman through whom to begin a new people or nation. Abraham, we are told, was one of "the noble and great ones," among the pre-existent intelligences; and, no doubt. Sarah was a fit helpmate for such a man. The Hebrew race had therefore the "inherent' structure" necessary for a great people. But the Lord did more than choose a worthy foundation for a great people. He took Abraham and Sarah out of their native 
 home and established them in a new land, a land favorable to the development of their descendants along the lines marked out for them by Jehovah. Palestine is a tract of extremely fertile land, about four hundred miles long, and from seventy to one hundred miles wide, lying between the Arabian Desert and the eastern coast of the Lavant. "Syria," says Professor George Adam Smith, (in which is Palestine), "lies between two continents  Asia and Africa: between two primeval homes of men  the valley of the Euphrates and the Nile; between two great centers of empire  Western Asia and Egypt; between all these, representing the Eastern and ancient world, and the Mediterranean, which is the gateway to the Western and modern world." In this central location Palestine became not only the "battle ground of empires," but also and particularly the "highway of nations." In the former respect it resembled the Belgium of modern history, and in the latter respect it was much like our own Salt Lake City, through which people pass from the East to the Pacific coast. By reason of its peculiar position, therefore, the Holy Land was isolated from the other nations, enjoying the consequent opportunity for development along the lines of its own racial possibilities. At the same time there was deposited on its national soil the sediment of civilization of the upper and lower peoples of the ancient world. Besides all this, Palestine is one of the richest countries of the world in its natural resources. Palestine "reproduces climates and zones which, in other countries, are separated by many hundred miles." "Within the extent of a single landscape, there is every climate, from the cold of northern Europe to the heat of India. The oak, the pine, the walnut, the maple, the juniper, the alder, the poplar, the willow, the ash, the ivy, and the hawthorn, grow luxuriously on the heights of Hermon, Basham, and Galilee. Hence the traveler from the more northerly temperate lands finds himself in some parts, surrounded by the trees and vegetation of his own country. ***** The traveler from the more southern countries is no less at home; for from whatever part he come, be it sunny Spain or Western India, he will recognize well known forms in one or the other of such a list as the carob, the oleander and willow, skirting the streams and water-courses; the sycamore, the fig, the olive, the date-palm, the pride of India, the pistachio, the tamerick, the acacia, and the tall tropical grasses and reeds, or in such fruits as the date, the pomegranate, the vine, the orange, the shaddock, the lime, the banana, the almond, and the prickly pear." Palestine, at the time of Abraham, was occupied by Caananitish tribes, barbaric peoples. Abraham and Sarah had come thither, obeying a command of God, from Chaldea. The people in their old home were idolators and offered up human beings as sacrifices, men, women, and children. In the Book of Abraham v/e are told that the priest was about to offer up the young man Abraham on the altar. In their new home the chosen pair dwelt from the call to the end of their lives, with the exception of short residences in Egypt. Whenever we think of Abraham and Sarah in Palestine we must not think of them as we sometimes do, in the midst of modern conditions. They did not live in a vast and wealthy kingdom. The "kings" mentioned in Genesis were but chiefs of tribes. Abraham with his "trained men born in his house, three hundred and eighteen," is represented as pursuing a number of these rebellious kings "as far as Dan," smiting them and their followers right and left. "And he brought back all the goods (which they had stolen from Lot, his brother's son), and also brought again his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people." In those days a man's wealth was measured by the things which he possessed. Pharaoh "had sheep, and oxen, and he-asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she-asses, and camels." Abraham too "was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold." Lot "had flocks, and herds, and tents." Sarah's household duties, if we may use the term "house" at Vil, were confine d to the tent. For when the angel appeared to Abraham just before the destruction of the wicked cities, the patriarch was sitting "in his tent door in the heat of the day," under "the oaks of Mamre." Moreover, they did more or less wandering from place to place, after the manner of herdsmen in those remote days. Abraham and Sarah lived a more or less nomadic life. In this wonderful land, under these conditions, the Hebrew race began its long and splendid career. We shall see in later articles how it was that this environment was used and modified to suit their growing needs. QUESTIONS. What has environment to do with the development of a race? Of an individual? Show that Palestine is so situated and is of such a character as to contribute to the isolation and development of the Jews. What may have been the Lord's purposes in establishing Israelites in the Palestine? Describe Palestine. Describe customs in the days of Abraham. What differences do you find in religion, in occupations, and in general manners then and now? Prove your statements. 
 Either before or after reading this lesson, study carefully the account of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah in Genesis, chapters 18 and 19. HOME BIBLE READING FOR FEBRUARY. "They received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the Scriptures daily." 1. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 1. 2. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 2. 3. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 3. 4. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 4. 5. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 5. 6. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 11. 7. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 12. 8. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 13. 9. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 14. 10. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 15. 11. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 16. 12. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 17. 13. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 18. 14. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 19. 15. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 20. 16. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 21. 17. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 22. 18. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 23. 19. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 24. 20. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 25. 21. Bible, Hebrews, Chapter 11. 22. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 1. 23. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 2. 24. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 3. 25. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 4. 26. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 5. 27. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 6. 28. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 7. BOOKS