[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Sorensen]
Recipes From Brazil Submitted by Asael T. Sorensen Canja (BRraAzILiAN CHICKEN Soup) 1 large fowl 1 sprig parsley 1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 leek salt to taste - Chives 1 tablespoon butter 2 carrots Clean the chicken and cut it in pieces. Saute the onion in the butter; add the chicken and simmer without letting it get too dark. Cover with water, add salt, parsley, carrots, chives, and leek. Cook until the chicken is tender, strain the broth through a sieve; remove bones and skin from chicken and cut it in 2-inch pieces. To about three and a half pints of broth, add 1 cup of well-washed rice. Let it cook, and, when nearly done, add the pieces of chicken and some salt, if necessary. 'The soup should be yellow and not too thick. Remove fat, if there is too much. The rice cooks quickly. For more color, add one large tomato. SHRIMPS a BAHIANA pounds shrimps 6 small tomatoes 1 tablespoon fat (preferably oil) "2 tablespoon flour 1 chopped onion "2 tablespoon butter parsley - 2 small hot peppers Peel and clean the shrimps. Saute onion, tomatoes, and parsley in the fat; add shrimps and simmer. Melt the butter and flour; add I cup of water and pour this mixture over the shrimps. Boil for a few. Minutes. This dish is even better when the milk of one coconut is added instead of water. If you like it hot, add the two small hot peppers. Serve with rice. Fe1yoapA CompPLeta (Brazitian Disu or Biack BEAns) - The day before the "Feijoada" wash several times in lukewarm water: 2 pounds of salt pork ) 150 grams bacon 2 pounds of dried meat (carne seca) 1 salted tongue 2 pounds of seasoned Brazilian pork pork ears, tails, ete. Sausage (linguica) (For a good "Feijoada" about 15 kinds of meat should be used.) Leave all meat covered with water overnight. Also wash 2 or more pounds of black beans, having picked out all empty shells or little stones that might be between them. Cover with water and let stand overnight. On the morning of the "Feijoada'"' put all the well-drained meat and the black beans in a big kettle and cover with the water they were standing in overnight; add two pounds of fresh pork meat and two pounds of fresh beef (neck). Let everything boil slowly for several hours, adding warm water to it occasionally until the black beans are well cooked. Melt two tablespoons of fat in a frying pan, add chopped onions, parsley, some Page 178 RECIPES FROM BRAZIL I, 179 tomatoes, 1 bay leaf, and two cloves of garlic, well mashed; take a small portion of the black beans with the skimmer-spoon and add them to this mixture. Saute everything, mash it with a rammer, and return it to the big kettle. Let it thicken, but be careful that it does not burn at the bottom of the pan. When ready to serve, carefully lift the meat out of the pan, carve it and arrange it on a big platter, the tongue in the middle, the dried and salted meat on one side, the fresh beef on the other. Serve the black beans in a soup tureen. Serve with rice, and small hot pepper sauce. Have peeled and sliced oranges on the table to go with the "Feijoada." To cook the rice: Pick the rice over and wash it. Brown 1 chopped onion, 1 clove of garlic, and from 1 to 6 tomatoes (according to size) in 3 tablespoons lard. Add the rice and stir it until it browns. Add boiling water (for 2 Ibs. Of rice about 8 cups of water) and let it boil on a slow fire for about % hour. When it is almost dry, cover the saucepan and let it boil a little longer. 'Take it off the fire. I « > Comforter Catherine B. Bowles The quilt my Grandma gave to me— Gay patchwork made of tiny squares, Each block delightful to behold; Each held a story often told; Some patches were not made quite true, Uneven stitches, here and there. The hand was shaky, wrinkled, old, But the love she stitched cannot be told. Sometimes my searching mind Seems almost like the patchwork quilt. Some parts are made of love and cheer, With darker ones of doubt and fear; Some streaked with mildew from my tears Heartache and anguish through the years. Each day has left a silent trace, So clearly mirrored in my face. But the soul my Father gave to me Will live throughout eternity.