[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Arnold]
The preparation and serving of food to large numbers are often undertaken by the members of the Relief Society. Feeding large numbers of people presents problems never encountered in feeding a family. Even the best of cafes and restaurants must be continually alert for a breakdown in standards of cleanliness and sanitation. Precautions can usually be incorporated into food planning without additional expense. Whether the food is prepared in the home, in the ward kitchen, or elsewhere, certain safeguards should be taken. Proper refrigeration is a must for safe food. Many cases of food poisoning and related diseases are directly traceable to improper refrigeration. Harmful bacteria or germs grow very rapidly at room temperature. They have a special liking for foods that are commonly served at social meals—chicken and _ turkey C HURCH dinners and picnics salads, a variety of ham dishes, dairy products, creamed foods, and custard desserts. 'These foods should be kept at temperatures under 50 degrees F. Never let such foods stand at room temperature more than an hour. Dishes and utensils must be clean and free from germs. Every dish, every glass, and every utensil should be washed and disinfected. If possible, dishwashing should begin as soon as the first course is completed. Silver, glasses, and dishes should be separated at the serving tables or in the dishwashing area. All dishes should be scraped before being passed to dishwashers. Plenty of soap or detergent should be used. Water should be hot as the hands can stand. It should be changed frequently. After washing, all dishes should be rinsed in hot water at 180 degrees. 'This is hotter than the hand can stand, therefore, a wire tray or other container should be used for immersing the dishes. A second and equally satisfactory method of killing bacteria involves the use of chemical disinfectants such as the common household bleaches and other chlorine products. These substances can be added in small quantities to the warm rinse water. Dishes should be free of soap before being immersed in the chemical rinse. One tablespoon of household bleach in each gallon of rinse water will be Page 183 184 sufficient. 'Ten gallons of water require approximately one teacup of sanitizing solution. F space and facilities permit, dishes should be allowed to air dry; otherwise, care must be taken to use plenty of dry, clean towels. Paper service may often solve your clean-up problems. Paper cups, dishes, plates, containers of all types, paper tablecloths, and napkins are obtainable in a wide variety of sizes and patterns. All food stored or displayed should be protected from dirt particles. Dishes, glasses, and utensils must also be protected from dust, insects, and other contamination between periods of use. If possible, they should be stored on covered shelves or in cupboards.. With doors. If they are stored for long periods they should be rinsed before use. Personal cleanliness is an important factor in preventing the spread of disease by food. Clean hands are essential. Pick up spoons, knives, forks and cups by their handles; dishes by their rims; and glasses by the base. Never let your fingers touch milk, water, soup, butter, ice, meat, or dessert. Hair should be covered with a hairnet, a cap, or other restraining devices. White aprons or uniforms may be a worthwhile investment for the ward kitchen. Persons who have a cold or other catching diseases should not be allowed to prepare or serve food. All foods served must be clean and wholesome. Miulk should be pasteurized. Meat should be from inspected sources. Vegetables and fruit must be clean. Bakery prodRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 ucts should never be stale. Care must be taken that the water used is clean and pure. Foods should be _ thoroughly cooked. Intense heat destroys bacteria and other parasites. This is especially important with pork products. After the food is cooked, hot foods should be kept hot until served. If you use a steam table, do not let the temperature drop below 145 degrees F. I Floor surfaces should be cleaned regularly. 'The good, old-fashioned broom is still best for sweeping and for chasing the dirt out of the corners. 'The use of a sweeping compound, or water lightly sprinkled on areas to be swept, will keep dust down to a minimum. Refuse and waste of all kinds should be disposed of properly. Refuse, especially garbage, which is allowed to accumulate may soon constitute a fly or rodent nuisance. The method of disposal may vary from grinding by mechanical disposals to burying in the case of some outdoor picnics. Be prompt and be thorough in waste removal. The condition inside a kitchen may often be reflected by the conditions outside and around the kitchen. All garbage containers should be covered with tight-fitting lids. HE fundamentals of clean food service should be applied wherever food is prepared, stored, or served. Apply these principles to your everyday activities to insure more healthful living for the entire family, and apply them when you are called to assist in the food service of your ward or stake. PREPARATION AND SERVING OF FOOD FOR LARGE GATHERINGS 185 TIPS AND SUGGESTIONS FOR MORE SUCCESSFUL MEATS These hints for simplifying and speeding planning, preparation, and service have been gathered from authorities in the field of large-scale food service. Many are based on engineering and efficiency studies conducted by institutions and restaurants. You will find that if you follow these suggestions all your tasks will be easier and, more than probably, your meal will be a success. 1. Plan, buy, and delegate duties well ahead of entertainment date. A NS Keep number of committee members to the mimimum necessary to get the job done. Too many "cooks" can spoil results. Make careful Preparation and Service Schedules and be sure all your workers understand them. Be business-like. Plan menu and calculate food costs and profits carefully. Select a menu suitable to the skills of your workers and the equipment available to you. Assume 3 or 4 kitchen workers for each fifty guests. Assume that each waitress can handle 8 to 10 people for a sit-down meal. Arrange kitchen so you have a center for each type of work—preparing vegetables, salads, desserts, beverages, etc. Put all foods, pans, spoons, ladles, serving dishes required for the task at each center. Reduce long reaches at work centers wherever possible by bringing materials and supplies close into working area.. Try to have work surfaces of convenient heights so that neither stooping nor stretching will be necessary.. Try to have the best equipment, such as good knives, scoops, chopping boards, slicing machines, etc.. Make certain pots and pans used for cooking are large enough.. Don't crowd roasting pans or fill cooking pots over three-fourths full.. Keep all perishables in refrigerator until the last moment before serving.. Do as much preparation work as possible in advance.