[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Leitner]
[POETRY Kindness— Frontispiece Jane B. Wunderlich 145 Contemplation Evelyn Fjeldsted 150 Cryptic Tokens Eva W. Wangsgaard 157 Desert Yearnings Annie Atkin Tanner 162 Temple Square Leone E. McCune 173 Comforter Catherine B. Bowles 179 First Herald Linnie F. Robinson 182 Honeymoon Salad Francelia Goddard 185 Where Sweets Are Maryhale Woolsey 194 Comfort Ida Isaacson 205 Return Christie Lund Coles 207 Helping Hands Delia Adams Leitner]
Refuse  and  waste  of  all  kinds 
should  be  disposed  of  properly. 
Refuse,  especially  garbage,  which  is 
allowed  to  accumulate  may  soon 
constitute  a  fly  or  rodent  nuisance. 
The  method  of  disposal  may  vary 
from  grinding  by  mechanical  dis- 
posals to  burying  in  the  case  of 
some  outdoor  picnics.  Be  prompt 
and  be  thorough  in  waste  removal. 
The  condition  inside  a  kitchen  may 
often  be  reflected  by  the  conditions 
outside  and  around  the  kitchen.  All 
garbage  containers  should  be  cov- 
ered with  tight-fitting  lids. 
HpHE  fundamentals  of  clean  food 
service  should  be  applied  wher- 
ever food  is  prepared,  stored,  or 
served.  Apply  these  principles  to 
your  everyday  activities  to  insure 
more  healthful  living  for  the  entire 
family,  and  apply  them  when  you 
are  called  to  assist  in  the  food  serv- 
ice of  your  ward  or  stake.

PREPARATION  AND  SERVING  OF  FOOD  FOR  LARGE  GATHERINGS  185 
TIPS  AND  SUGGESTIONS  FOR  MORE  SUCCESSFUL  MEATS 
These  hints  for  simplifying  and  speeding  planning,  preparation,  and  service  have 
been  gathered  from  authorities  in  the  field  of  large-scale  food  service.  Many  are  based 
on  engineering  and  efficiency  studies  conducted  by  institutions  and  restaurants.  You 
will  find  that  if  you  follow  these  suggestions  all  your  tasks  will  be  easier  and,  more  than 
probably,  your  meal  will  be  a  success. 
1.  Plan,  buy,  and  delegate  duties  well  ahead  of  entertainment  date. 
2.  Keep  number  of  committee  members  to  the  minimum  necessary  to  get  the  job 
done.     Too  many  "cooks"  can  spoil  results. 
3.  Make  careful  Preparation  and  Service  Schedules  and  be  sure  all  your  workers 
understand  them. 
4.  Be  business-like.    Plan  menu  and  calculate  food  costs  and  profits  carefully. 
5.  Select  a  menu  suitable  to  the  skills  of  your  workers  and  the  equipment  available 
to  you. 
6.  Assume  3  or  4  kitchen  workers  for  each  fifty  guests. 
7.  Assume  that  each  waitress  can  handle  8  to  10  people  for  a  sit-down  meal. 
8.  Arrange  kitchen  so  you  have  a  center  for  each  type  of  work — preparing  vegetables, 
salads,  desserts,  beverages,  etc.  Put  all  foods,  pans,  spoons,  ladles,  serving  dishes 
required  for  the  task  at  each  center. 
9.  Reduce  long  reaches  at  work  centers  wherever  possible  by  bringing  materials  and 
supplies  close  into  working  area. 
10.  Try  to  have  work  surfaces  of  convenient  heights  so  that  neither  stooping  nor 
stretching  will  be  necessary. 
11.  Try  to  have  the  best  equipment,  such  as  good  knives,  scoops,  chopping  boards, 
slicing  machines,  etc. 
12.  Make  certain  pots  and  pans  used  for  cooking  are  large  enough. 
13.  Don't  crowd  roasting  pans  or  fill  cooking  pots  over  three-fourths  full. 
14.  Keep  all  perishables  in  refrigerator  until  the  last  moment  before  serving. 
15.  Do  as  much  preparation  work  as  possible  in  advance. 
16.  If  possible,  serve  through  service  windows  or  across  a  Dutch  door  to  keep  wait- 
resses out  of  the  kitchen.  One  method  is  to  put  a  table  across  the  door  between 
the  kitchen  and  dining  room  and  have  kitchen  workers  place  food  on  it  to  be 
picked  up  by  servers. 
dioneifmoori  Salad 
Francelia  Goddaid 
A  salad  whets  the  appetite, 
It's  also  quite  nutritious. 
The  little  bride  can  manage  this 
And  thinks  it  looks  delicious. 
She  blends  the  golden  mayonnaise 
With  purple  cabbage  shredded, 
And  love  takes  up  where  skill  leaves  off 
To  please  her  newly-wedded.

Let's  Have  Fish 
Winnified  C.  Jar  dine 
Food  Editor,  Deseiet  News  and  Telegram 
SOME  of  the  best  eating  ever 
to  be  had  is  from  fish.  De- 
licious of  flavor,  tender  of 
eating,  simple  of  cooking,  fish 
should  be  included  often  in  any 
meal  plans. 
And  not  only  is  fish  good  to  eat, 
but  it  is  nutritious  also.  Fish  is  a 
high-quality  protein,  easy  to  digest. 
And  most  fish  contains  generous 
supplies  of  vitamins  A  and  D;  all 
fish  are  an  excellent  source  of 
iodine. 
Fish  should  be  purchased  only 
from  markets  where  it  is  kept  well 
refrigerated,  even  while  on  display. 
Buy  only  the  amount  needed,  and 
buy  it  as  near  the  time  of  use  as  pos- 
sible. 
After  bringing  fresh  fish  home, 
wrap  it  in  waxed  paper,  and  store  it 
in  the  coldest  part  of  the  refrigera- 
tor until  cooking  time.  Handle 
fresh  fish  as  little  as  possible; 
handling  bruises  the  flesh. 
Store  frozen  fish  in  the  freezing 
compartment  of  the  refrigerator  un- 
til ready  to  prepare.  Thaw  frozen 
fish  before  cooking,  either  by  keep- 
ing in  the  refrigerator,  but  out  of 
the  freezer  unit  for  twenty-four 
hours,  or  by  leaving  it  at  room 
temperature  for  about  two  hours. 
Be  sure  to  cook  fish  as  soon  as  it  is 
thawed. 
If  possible,  keep  all  fish  from  di- 
rect contact  with  ice;  if  it  must  be 
placed  on  ice,  wrap  fish  carefully  in 
waterproof  paper. 
There  are  only  a  few  basic  ways 
of  cooking  fish  —  baking,  broiling, 
Page  186 
frying,  and  "boiling"  or  poaching. 
Around  these  can  be  made  many  de- 
lightful variations.  The  important 
thing  is  to  cook  fish  until  tender  and 
thoroughly  done,  yet  not  over- 
cooked. Fried  fish  should  be  crispy 
and  brown,  but  not  greasy.  Baked 
fish  should  remain  shapely. 
Extra  care  must  be  used  in  plan- 
ning menus  around  fish.  Rich 
sauces  should  be  used  with  lean  fish, 
and  acid  or  spicy  sauces  with  fat 
fish.  Mild-flavored  vegetables  should 
be  combined  with  strong-flavored 
fish,  well-flavored  vegetables  with 
mild  fish. 
Watch  textures  in  fish  meals. 
Serve  something  crusty  and 
browned,  such  as  French  fries;  and 
include  something  raw  and  crunchy, 
such  as  cabbage  slaw. 
And  remember  that  most  fish  is 
bland  in  color,  therefore  serve 
bright-colored  foods  along  with  it, 
such  as  broccoli  and  carrots. 
And  now  for  the  cooking! 
To  Bake  Whole  Fish 
Rub  fish  generously  inside  and 
out  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  lightly 
with  any  simple  stuffing,  sew  up 
with  string,  and  place  on  rack  in 
baking  pan.  If  desired,  lay  fish  on 
a  piece  of  cheesecloth  or  oiled  parch- 
ment paper,  so  that  it  may  be  lifted 
and  transferred  to  a  hot  platter  more 
easily  without  breaking. 
Bake  uncovered  at  45o°F.,  allow- 
ing ten  to  fifteen  minutes  per 
pound.  Baste  occasionally  with 
melted  butter  or  salad  oil.     If  de-
