[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: There | Author: Stewart]
[There Is Still Time— Chapter 2 Margery S. Stewart]

But after a day's work on the yard — 'Tim always went at anything twice as hard as he ought — he'd want something really substantial, along with something nice for dessert. Tim was a meat and dessert man. The things in between didn't interest him much. A quick glance through the rooms said 'Tim wasn't in from the yard yet. Dumping my hat and my few purchases on the bed in the far bedroom, I hurried out back. "Tm home, darling," I called. Tim turned a red, weary face to me from the far side of the garden. "That's good." "Hungry?" He tried to smile. That sandwich " "I know," I said guiltily. "And I'll bet you haven't stopped a minute all day. Ill hurry and get dinner." That morning, standing by my kitchen sink there at the front of the house, I'd noticed a couple of strange cars in the Carter driveway. Joan's folks from the northern part of the state, I had thought. The cars were still there, I saw. Joan will be busy, I thought, and I imagined her hurrying through the small rooms (ours were so large), her hazel eyes smiling, her short dark hair smooth and neat. Joan was such a pretty woman! I hurried to the icebox to see "Famished. THE ICE-CREAM PIE what I could find for Tim's dinner. Leftover lamb roast from two days ago. A salad. I could open a can of brown beans to go with it. But what for dessert? 'Tim simply didn't consider he'd eaten without dessert! More from habit than from hope, I opened the freezing compartment. At best I expected to find nothing better than a can of frozen orange juice, a taste of half-melted sherbet At first, I literally couldn't believe my eyes. I blinked and looked again. On the lower shelf of the freezing compartment, basking in a luscious pale brown crumb crust, was the most delectable lime-green ice-cream pie I'd ever seen! I swallowed and looked a third time. The vision didn't change. My heart beating fast, I hurried out back again. "Tim, oh, Tim!" I called softly. "Who sent the beautiful pie?" IM, with his face deep in the bushes, his back toward me, didn't answer. I went back inside, opened the ice box again, this time just to stare. Who had sent the pie? Which of my new neighbors? I hurried to the window. The solution of Tim's dessert problem and my little guilty feeling at leaving him, wasting my afternoon, had brought with it another problem. Which one of my neighbors — the fragility of the pie indicated it must have come from close by — which one, had done this kindly, this most timely deed? Betty Jennings, there on the east, I mused. Betty called desserts "goop." Across from her, the Morrisons. Mrs. Morrison would be 165 too busy with her own brood, her ailing father, to spend the time on such a work of art as this! 'The old doctor's wife directly across from us! As if in answer to that Mrs. Walton's ice-blue car, with her at the wheel, coasted in to their wide driveway. On the west of us, the new people, the Fentons? But just this morning Tim had told me they were in Portland. Joan Carter, then! Joan Carter, the one I so hoped and wanted it to be! There just wasn't any other answer. While I had been downtown with my old friends, shopping and wasting my day, Joan had — along with her house guests — found the time, and the desire, to make this wonderful lime-green ice cream pie! My heart sang. All my problems, my self-doubts, I felt were answered. Joan still wanted to be friends. Whatever had happened there at first, it didn't matter now. Joan and I were friends! I'd never doubt her again! I'd never doubt myself! And in the future ['d never forget it. No matter what happened, no matter the slights and the coldness, I'd have this to go by. The knowledge of her kindness would stay in my mind and my heart forever. I began to plan the things we'd do together, Joan borrowing from me, me calling across to her, 'Tim and her husband friends. Her children, maybe, calling me Aunt Sally. The lamb roast, the fresh green salad, even the canned ovenbrowned beans took on a different aspect as, calling to 'Tim again that dinner was ready, I set them on the table there in our small dining room, just off the kitchen. And 166 then to please Tim's eye, to make the occasion even more special, while he was washing in the bathroom just off the patio, I lifted the ice-cream pie from its shelf. Cutting two generous wedges, I slid them carefully onto two of my Minton plates. "It's ready, dear; dinner's ready," I sang out, just as 'Tim appeared through the door of the utility room. Tim, weary as he was, didn't seem to notice. He drew back his chair, sank into it. "Whew, what a day!" I could restrain myself no longer. "You saw the pie," I said, my glance indicating the creamy, ice-cool wedges. "Wasn't it nice of Joan to send it?" I was so sure it was Joan. I could speak with such sureness. 66 GEND us the pie!" Tim exploded. At last he was seeing the creamy wedges. "Joan didn't give it to us! She's got guests. Her icebox was full. She just wanted to store it in ours." The bottom seemed to fall out of my day. "Just store it?" I stammered. It was as though I were begging him to say differently. Tim nodded. "And you've cut it!" 'There was blame and censure in his voice, his manner. "Oh, I'm sorry! I called to you but you didn't hear me. I'll have to put it back." "Well, I'll say," Tim said. He was helping himself to the leftover roast, the canned beans. As best I could I slid the delicate pieces into place, put the pie back in the freezer, turned up the controls. But already the pieces had begun to melt. The pie would nevRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 er look the same again. And I'd never feel the same again. "You're not eating," 'Tim said a few minutes later. "Tm. Just not hungry, I guess." JI murmured something about my afternoon downtown. My neighbor had been thinking of me. She had turned to me to store her pie and now we'd never be friends. In the morning, however, I prepared 'Tim's and my own bacon and eggs, new strawberries, and buttered toast, and I ate mine with relish. "What are you going to do today?" 'Tim asked his usual question, as, dressed in his neat tan suit, his lips touched my cheek at the door. "I''ve really got a busy day," I said smiling. "I'm going to make you something nice for dessert tonight. Besides that, 'm going to bake something for the neighbors." "The neighbors?" 'Tim raised his eyebrows in mock consternation. "All of them?" "Well, some of them. Mrs. Morrison; her girls would like some cookies, I'm sure. And maybe her old father... He'd like a custard. And Betty, next door. I'll bet I can find some kind of dessert she won't call 'goop.'"" I hesitated a moment. "But most of all I want to bake something for Joan. Most especially, Joan." Tim's face lit up in the most beatific smile. "Well, that's more like it," he said. And I knew suddenly that if I had been worried about myself, he had been worried about me, too. And now neither of us was worried. "That's my girl," he said. And bending over me again, he kissed me on the mouth. Getting New Subscriptions and Renewals for She Relief Society Mlagazine Lucy Horman Magazine Representative, Highland Stake (Utah) [Discussion Presented in the Magazine Department Meeting, Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1955] constantly asked to perform tasks for which they have little or no training. This is particularly true of the Magazine representatives. They often come to us with misgivings. I have heard them say, "I haven't had any experience in selling, but our president combed the ward and was unable to find anyone to fill this position, so I have decided to help her out." We have learned from experience that it isn't how much they know that matters, but how willing they are to learn. M constant of our Church are A Planned Reading Program If we are to be successful, we must increase our knowledge of selling. To gain knowledge of selling, we would do well to study the technique of outstanding salesmen who make their living in this field. Gaining knowledge is dependent on the persistent effort we put forth. To increase knowledge, some _professional salesmen advise a planned reading program. 'Thirty minutes each day is suggested. Part of our reading should be done aloud, so we can hear our voices and improve any undesirable qualities that we may discover. Words have been called the tools with which we express our thoughts. 'Therefore, it is suggested that we improve our vocabularies by spending a few minutes each day with the dictionary. We should persist in using these new words until they become natural to us. We must also develop our ability to think clearly and express our thoughts fluently, for we want to give the impression that we know what we are talking about. 'The ability to say the right word at the right time is often the difference between success and failure. A Positive Attitude A positive attitude is vital to success. Any negative expression may defeat our cause. 'This brings to mind an incident of my youth. A neighbor girl came to our home and said to my mother, "Mrs. Smith, I'm selling pins. I knew you wouldn't buy any, but I thought I'd come anyway." After she had gone, mother said with a grin, "There is a young lady who is destined to rise to the heights in the field of selling!" A popular song of a few years ago suggested that we emphasize the positive and eliminate the negative, and that is what we want to do and we can do it by choosing our words carefully. A Magazine representative in my stake discovered that she was saying Page 167 168 the wrong thing when she asked for renewals. It had been her habit to say, "Would you like to renew your subscription to The Relief Society Magazine?"