[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Put on | Author: Graham]
[Put on Your Gay Sunbonnet Jennie E. Graham]

Never let such foods stand at room temperature more than an hour. Dishes and utensils must be clean and free from germs. Every dish, every glass, and every utensil should be washed and disinfected. If possible, dishwashing should begin as soon as the first course is completed. Silver, glasses, and dishes should be separated at the serving tables or in the dishwashing area. All dishes should be scraped before being passed to dishwashers. Plenty of soap or detergent should be used. Water should be hot as the hands can stand. It should be changed frequently. After washing, all dishes should be rinsed in hot water at 180 degrees. 'This is hotter than the hand can stand, therefore, a wire tray or other container should be used for immersing the dishes. A second and equally satisfactory method of killing bacteria involves the use of chemical disinfectants such as the common household bleaches and other chlorine products. These substances can be added in small quantities to the warm rinse water. Dishes should be free of soap before being immersed in the chemical rinse. One tablespoon of household bleach in each gallon of rinse water will be Page 183 184 sufficient. 'Ten gallons of water require approximately one teacup of sanitizing solution. F space and facilities permit, dishes should be allowed to air dry; otherwise, care must be taken to use plenty of dry, clean towels. Paper service may often solve your clean-up problems. Paper cups, dishes, plates, containers of all types, paper tablecloths, and napkins are obtainable in a wide variety of sizes and patterns. All food stored or displayed should be protected from dirt particles. Dishes, glasses, and utensils must also be protected from dust, insects, and other contamination between periods of use. If possible, they should be stored on covered shelves or in cupboards.. With doors. If they are stored for long periods they should be rinsed before use. Personal cleanliness is an important factor in preventing the spread of disease by food. Clean hands are essential. Pick up spoons, knives, forks and cups by their handles; dishes by their rims; and glasses by the base. Never let your fingers touch milk, water, soup, butter, ice, meat, or dessert. Hair should be covered with a hairnet, a cap, or other restraining devices. White aprons or uniforms may be a worthwhile investment for the ward kitchen. Persons who have a cold or other catching diseases should not be allowed to prepare or serve food. All foods served must be clean and wholesome. Miulk should be pasteurized. Meat should be from inspected sources. Vegetables and fruit must be clean. Bakery prodRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 ucts should never be stale. Care must be taken that the water used is clean and pure. Foods should be _ thoroughly cooked. Intense heat destroys bacteria and other parasites. This is especially important with pork products. After the food is cooked, hot foods should be kept hot until served. If you use a steam table, do not let the temperature drop below 145 degrees F. I Floor surfaces should be cleaned regularly. 'The good, old-fashioned broom is still best for sweeping and for chasing the dirt out of the corners. 'The use of a sweeping compound, or water lightly sprinkled on areas to be swept, will keep dust down to a minimum. Refuse and waste of all kinds should be disposed of properly. Refuse, especially garbage, which is allowed to accumulate may soon constitute a fly or rodent nuisance. The method of disposal may vary from grinding by mechanical disposals to burying in the case of some outdoor picnics. Be prompt and be thorough in waste removal. The condition inside a kitchen may often be reflected by the conditions outside and around the kitchen. All garbage containers should be covered with tight-fitting lids. HE fundamentals of clean food service should be applied wherever food is prepared, stored, or served. Apply these principles to your everyday activities to insure more healthful living for the entire family, and apply them when you are called to assist in the food service of your ward or stake. PREPARATION AND SERVING OF FOOD FOR LARGE GATHERINGS 185 TIPS AND SUGGESTIONS FOR MORE SUCCESSFUL MEATS These hints for simplifying and speeding planning, preparation, and service have been gathered from authorities in the field of large-scale food service. Many are based on engineering and efficiency studies conducted by institutions and restaurants. You will find that if you follow these suggestions all your tasks will be easier and, more than probably, your meal will be a success. 1. Plan, buy, and delegate duties well ahead of entertainment date. A NS Keep number of committee members to the mimimum necessary to get the job done. Too many "cooks" can spoil results. Make careful Preparation and Service Schedules and be sure all your workers understand them. Be business-like. Plan menu and calculate food costs and profits carefully. Select a menu suitable to the skills of your workers and the equipment available to you. Assume 3 or 4 kitchen workers for each fifty guests. Assume that each waitress can handle 8 to 10 people for a sit-down meal. Arrange kitchen so you have a center for each type of work—preparing vegetables, salads, desserts, beverages, etc. Put all foods, pans, spoons, ladles, serving dishes required for the task at each center. Reduce long reaches at work centers wherever possible by bringing materials and supplies close into working area.. Try to have work surfaces of convenient heights so that neither stooping nor stretching will be necessary.. Try to have the best equipment, such as good knives, scoops, chopping boards, slicing machines, etc.. Make certain pots and pans used for cooking are large enough.. Don't crowd roasting pans or fill cooking pots over three-fourths full.. Keep all perishables in refrigerator until the last moment before serving.. Do as much preparation work as possible in advance. If possible, serve through service windows or across a Dutch door to keep waitresses out of the kitchen. One method is to put a table across the door between the kitchen and dining room and have kitchen workers place food on it to be picked up by servers. Honeymoon Salad Francelia Goddard A salad whets the appetite, It's also quite nutritious. The little bride can manage this And thinks it looks delicious. She blends the golden mayonnaise With purple cabbage shredded, And love takes up where skill leaves off To please her newly-wedded, Let's Have Fish Winnifred C. Jardine Food Editor, Deseret News and Telegram OME of the best eating ever S to be had is from fish. Delicious of flavor, tender of eating, simple of cooking, fish should be included often in any meal plans. And not only is fish good to eat, but it is nutritious also. Fish is a high-quality protein, easy to digest. And most fish contains generous supplies of vitamins A and D; all fish are an excellent source of iodine. Fish should be purchased only from markets where it is kept well refrigerated, even while on display. Buy only the amount needed, and buy it as near the time of use as possible. After bringing fresh fish home, wrap it in waxed paper, and store it in the coldest part of the refrigerator until cooking time. Handle fresh fish as little as possible; handling bruises the flesh. Store frozen fish in the freezing compartment of the refrigerator until ready to prepare. 'Thaw frozen fish before cooking, either by keeping in the refrigerator, but out of the freezer unit for twenty-four hours, or by leaving it at room temperature for about two hours. Be sure to cook fish as soon as it ls thawed. If possible, keep all fish from direct contact with ice; if it must be placed on ice, wrap fish carefully in waterproof paper. There are only a few basic ways of cooking fish — baking, broiling, Page 186 frying, and "boiling" or poaching. Around these can be made many delightful variations. 'The important thing is to cook fish until tender and thoroughly done, yet not overcooked. Fried fish should be crispy and brown, but not greasy. Baked fish should remain shapely. Extra care must be used in planning menus around fish. Rich sauces should be used with lean fish, and acid or spicy sauces with fat fish. Mild-flavored vegetables should be combined with strong-flavored fish, well-flavored vegetables with mild fish. Watch textures in fish meals. Serve something crusty and browned, such as French fries; and include something raw and crunchy, such as cabbage slaw. And remember that most fish is bland in color, therefore serve bright-colored foods along with it, such as broccoli and carrots. And now for the cooking! To Bake Whole Fish Rub fish generously inside and out with salt and pepper. Fill lightly with any simple stuffing, sew up with string, and place on rack in baking pan. If desired, lay fish on a piece of cheesecloth or oiled parchment paper, so that it may be lifted and transferred to a hot platter more easily without breaking. Bake uncovered at 450°F., allowing ten to fifteen minutes per pound. Baste occasionally with melted butter or salad oil. If de- LET'S HAVE FISH 187 Courtesy American Institute of Baking STUFFED HALIBUT STEAKS sired, protect the tail from burning by wrapping in waxed paper during baking pro

cess. How to Bake Fish Slices Arrange fish slices in greased baking pan, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and dot with butter or margarine. Bake uncovered at 400°F', for 20 to 30 minutes, or until tender. How to Broil Fish Clean fish and wipe dry. Broil small fish without splitting. Split medium-sized fish down back and remove bones. Cut large fish into fillets or steaks. Brush fish with melted butter or salad oil, sprinkle with salt and pepper, then lay on a greased broil-andserve platter, or on a greased shallow broiler pan. Turn over to broil and preheat 10 minutes. Place broiler pan 2 inches below source of heat and broil fish until golden brown and well done. Do not try to turn fish for broiling the second side — it is too easily broken. If fish is not thoroughly cooked by the time it is brown, place the rack in a low position in the oven and finish cooking slowly. How to Pan-Fry Fish Clean and wipe dry whole small fish or slices or fillets of larger ones. Roll in flour that has been seasoned with salt and pepper; cook in a small amount of shortening in a heavy frying pan until brown on both sides, turning carefully with a 188 spatula. Fish is done when it flakes from bone easily when tested with a fork. How to Oven-Fry Fish Clean pieces of fish and wipe. Dip into milk which has been salted, then into fine dry bread crumbs or finely crushed cornflakes. Arrange in well-greased shallow baking pan. Spoon a little melted butter or cooking oil over the pieces, then bake at 500°F. For 10 to 15 minutes, or until well browned and done. Serve immediately. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 How to Poach or "Boil" Fish Poached fish is cooked in liquid that is definitely below the boiling point until tender—about 10 minutes per pound. The liquid used may be water with 1 teaspoon salt and 1 tablespoon lemon juice or vinegar added for each quart, or it may be half milk and half water. When the fish is done, some of this tichly flavored broth is used for part or all of the liquid in making egg sauce or Other sauce to serve with the fish. BakEeD CREAMED F'sH FILLETS 2 pounds fish fillets (cod, sole, halibut, haddock, or other) % tsp. Salt dash pepper "4 tsp. Paprika juice of 1 lemon 2 tbsp. Butter or margarine 2 tbsp. Flour salt and pepper 2 tsp. Dry mustard 1 c. Light cream or top milk % c. Chopped pimiento, if desired % c. Buttered bread crumbs 1 tbsp. Minced parsley Cut fillets in serving pieces. Place in greased, shallow baking dish; sprinkle with salt, pepper, paprika, and lemon juice. Make white sauce of butter, flour, seasoning and milk; stir in pimiento. Pour over fillets. Sprinkle with crumbs and parsley. 350°F. For 35 minutes. Makes 6 servings. Bake at Crispy FriED PIKE 6 serving-size pike fillets sour milk salt biscuit mix 2 tbsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Shortening Place pike fillets in a shallow pan or dish. Pour enough sour milk over fillets to cover. Allow 1 tsp. Salt for each pound of fish. Let stand 20 to 45 minutes. Drain. Dip each fillet in dry biscuit mix. Melt butter and shortening in heavy skillet. Cook fish in shortening until well browned and slightly crisp on one side, turn, and repeat on second side. Makes 6 servings. BroiLeD FILLETS AU GRATIN 2 packages frozen or 3 Ibs. 2 fresh brocoli 2 1% to 2 lbs. Thawed quick-frozen or fresh cod or haddock fillets tsp. Lemon juice tbsp. Butter or margarine "* ¢. Milk "' \b. Processed American cheddar cheese, grated (2 c.) LET'S HAVE FISH 189 Preheat broiler 10 minutes. Cook broccoli until just tender. Arrange fillets side by side in greased shallow baking pan. Sprinkle with lemon juice and dot with butter. Broil 2 inches below heat, without turning, 8 to 10 minutes or until easily flaked with fork but still moist. Meanwhile, in double boiler, heat milk with grated cheese until smooth sauce is formed. 'Transfer fish to 12x8-inch baking dish. Arrange broccoli over fish; pour sauce over all. Place low in broiler and broil until golden. Makes 6 servings. JELLIED SaLmon Loar 2 tbsp. (2 packages) 1 ¢. Mayonnaise unflavored gelatin "2 tsp. Salt "2 c. Cold water "% tsp. Pepper % c. Boiling water 2 tbsp. Catsup 2 c. Cooked or canned salmon 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 2 tbsp. Vinegar or lemon juice 12 sliced stuffed olives Soak gelatin in cold water. Add boiling water and stir until gelatin is dissolved. Combine with remaining ingredients and pour into loaf pan or individual salad molds. Chill until firm. Unmold and slice or serve on lettuce leaves. Serve with lemon wedges. Makes 6 to 8 servings. MarYLAND DEVILED CRAB 1 tbsp. Butter % tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Flour few grains pepper % c. Light cream or top milk 1 tsp. Finely chopped onion 1 beaten egg yolk 1 tbsp. Finely chopped green pepper 1 c. Crab meat 1 tsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce % c. Buttered bread crumbs "2 tsp. Prepared mustard Melt butter, stir in flour. Add cream and cook until thick, stirring constantly. Add small amount of hot liquid to egg yolk, then stir egg into remaining hot mixture. Add crab meat and seasonings. Cook 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Add onion, green pepper, and lemon juice. Fill greased shells or ramekins with hot mixture. Top with but tered crumbs and sprinkle with paprika. Bake at 4oo°F'. Until crumbs are brown, about 10 minutes. Makes 4 servings. Double recipe for baking in casserole. STUFFED HALisuT STEAKS 2 halibut steaks, 1-inch thick Y%, c. Melted butter 2 c. Dry bread crumbs 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley 1 tsp. Salt 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 2 tablespoons onion juice 2 cans vegetable soup Wipe steaks clean. Combine bread crumbs, salt, onion juice, butter, parsley, and lemon juice and rind. Spread the dressing between steaks, then place stuffed steaks in a greased pan. Pour undiluted vegetable soup over steaks and bake at 350°F. For about 30 minutes. DeE. Icious TARTAR SAUCE "2 ¢. Mayonnaise "4 tsp. Tabasco " tsp. Dry mustard 1 tsp. Vinegar generous sprinkle of garlic and 4 or 5 minced medium stuffed olives onion salts 1 minced gherkin 1 tbsp. Catsup 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley Combine all ingredients and serve with fried, broiled, or baked fish. Makes enough sauce for 3 or 4 servings.