[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 28 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
Srom Near and Sar As the year is soon coming to a close, I want to thank you for the lovely Magazine for 1955, with a wish for continued success in 1956. —Margaret A. Anderson Richmond, Utah I have found so much enjoyment in The Relief Society Magazine every month since I have been receiving it. I read it from cover to cover, and I am so thankful to my good daughter-in-law, Mrs. Laura Huffman, E] Paso, Texas, for sending it to me for my birthday. —Mrs. Alva Huffman Hotchkiss, Colorado' Although the Magazine is a woman's book, I wish to congratulate you on its splendid contents. Whenever I have a spare moment and there is a Relief Society Magazine near, I relax and read it and enjoy the wonderful stories. I have never been disappointed in them. —Elder J. Elhott St. Michaels, Arizona I wish to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. We have enjoyed reading it each month from cover to cover. When I read the From Near and Far messages, it is very interesting to know what the Magazine means to everyone. It is a Magazine with perfect reading material for every L. D. S. Family, and for all non-members, as well. The Magazine has been a long-time reading companion in my home, as I joined the Relief Society about 1930. I have enjoyed the faith-promoting stories, the inspinng editorials, and the lessons have been an everyday education in rearing my children. —Ruth Marriott Roberts, Idaho I do enjoy the Magazine very much— the stories, poems, and lesson material. Sometimes it seems that the Magazine is a direct answer to my problems. It gives me so much to think about when I am doing the housework or driving the tractor. —Mrs. Mildred Jensen Johnson Rexburg, Idaho Page 146 We three (Mrs. Joan Cannon, Mrs. Mary Glidwell, and Mrs. Lillie Newton) are the membership of our Relief Society. We have our lesson each Tuesday, and occasionally we enjoy a visitor. We enjoy such a sweet spirit in our meetings. Sister Cannon has been a member of the Church about ten years, and my sister and I have been members thirteen and a half months. We hope this year, through our welfare work, to inspire an interest in Relief Society, as well as giving us a chance to tell people about the Church. Thank you for such a wonderful inspirational Magazine. —Mrs. Lillie Newton Milan, Missouri The response we receive to the Magazine is tremendous. I just received a letter from the Rio Cuarto Relief Society requesting a copy each month, because they are sure that one of the sisters reads enough English so that she can translate the contents for the other sisters. We receive enough copies each month so that we can distribute. Them throughout the mission, and the sisters enjoy them very much. During every visit I make someone is sure to comment on something she has read in the Magazine. —Amy Y. Valentine President Argentine Mission Relief Society Buenos Aires, Argentina I have been taking The Relief Society Magazine for about a year and a half and do enjoy it very much. I can't get to Relief Society meetings, as I have to work, but I can keep up with the lessons and feel more a part of it through the Magazine. —Margaret Kearney Idaho Falls, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine brings much joy into our home each month. I feel it is the means by which hundreds of women throughout the Church can give expression to their thoughts and talents. —Ruth W. Heiner Heyburn, Idaho