[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
[The Brazilian Mission Preston R. Nibley]

Comforting indeed are the words of the Savior, recorded in Matthew: Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is ight (Mt. 11:28-30). Brother Bryant S. Hinckley has said: These words have solaced the troubled hearts of the world and given hope and cheer to those who are heavy laden as no 149 other words ever have done. They carry the spirit and beauty of the glorious message of the Redeemer of the world (Not By Bread Alone, Bryant S. Hinckley, page 34). The words of the Scriptures are so valuable in our lives, let us read them, study them, and live by them. Valuable, too, in building a happy life are the words of the great writers and poets — men and women who through words express the beauty and worthwhileness of life. Never shall I forget the words of Thomas Carlyle. Words taught to me when just a child. 'These words have stayed with me all my life and many times with the beginning of a new day I find them running through my mind: So here hath been dawning Another blue Day: Think, wilt thou let it Slip useless away? Out of Eternity This new Day is born. Into Eternity, At night, will return, Behold it afore time No eye ever did: So soon it for-ever From all eyes is hid. Here hath been dawning Another blue Day: Think, wilt thou let it Slip useless away? These words help us to realize more fully the value of time and the need to make the most of each precious moment. It was Benjamin Franklin who said: Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time for that is the stuff life is made of. In closing, may I remind you of 150 the words of Alma, words which we have all read and loved when reading The Book of Mormon. Truly words to live by: And now I would that ye should be humble, and be submissive and_ gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in keeping the commandments of God at all times; asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, 'RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive. And see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and then ye will always abound in good works (Alma 7:23-24). May the Lord grant unto us strength to live by his word, and may there be reflected in us the beauty and truth which we gain by applying all things good into our lives. Contemplation Evelyn Fjeldsted How good life seems to be — how swift Is measured time when one must leave The things one cares so deeply for. How quietly the hours weave The warp and weft of earthly scenes— Memories, renditions of the past; And swifter than the weaver's shuttle were The endless dramas that were cast. How strangely old familiar paths Loom in silent unreality, How kindly is the night's intent To hide a sorrow's clarity. In earth's harbor one would ever stay Where thought is anchored to the known. Like ships adrift, those who embark Must sail the unexplored alone. But once to live, is this not proof That everything — that even hope Can live again? Believing this, One sees beyond the present scope. A new life is revealed when seas are crossed And reassurance brings repose. The stillness of the deepening night Brings contemplation to a close, And this is gained — this new-found thought— That death may give what life could not. — Shird Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Room for Nancy Edith Larson DDING her "Amen" to the A others, Mary raised her head and looked around the breakfast table. Usually it warmed her heart to see her family together. I Richard, with graying hair making him more distinguished looking than ever, was turning his attention to his bacon and eggs. Susan was dressed for her office job, and the twins Joy and Jay wore the garb of the high school crowd. Seven-yearold Dickie was scrubbed and shining as far as his ears, but his hair stood on. End, bed-tousled, and _ his neck and arms still bore the dirt of last night's play. Only Nancy was missing, and she might arrive with baby Larry any minute now. Arrive, expecting a welcome that wasn't there. Mary's heart twisted at the thought. "Have you moved your things back into Joy's room?" she asked Susan. "Yes, Mother,' Susan answered without raising her eyes. Mary suppressed a sigh. It was only natural that Susan should be reluctant to give up the room that had been hers for just one short year. "My room?" Joy exclaimed, making no effort to hide her bitterness. "When Susan and I bunked together before, it was Susan's room." "This is only temporary, dear," Mary assured her. Ht et EDITH LARSON "Two years doesn't sound very temporary to me," Joy muttered. "Joy, that will do," her father said in the tone all of the children respected. Yet Mary knew that even he was not happy about Nancy's return. He would welcome her, of course; but just last night, in the privacy of their bedroom, he had spoken wistfully of that extra bedroom they had never been able to afford. And he had mentioned Nancy's scornful attitude toward young couples who went home to the folks at the first crisis in their marriage. Mary had pointed out to Richard that this was hardly the type of Page 15] 152 crisis Nancy had meant. Her husband Lowell was going on a mission. Both families wanted him to go, but it would be impractical to finance him and keep up a separate home for Nancy and the baby. Having Nancy rent their little house and bring the baby home was the obvious solution. It had seemed such a natural solution to Mary that she still could not understand the attitude of the other children. How would Nancy feel when she sensed their reluctance to make room for her? Sensitive Nancy, who was so quick to freeze up on the inside at the least slight. Inwardly Mary was seething—and hurt. How little one actually knew one's own children! She had always believed that she was rearing hers to face facts and make night decisions. Where had she failed? "Two years is a lifetime,' Susan dropped into the silence. Poor Susan, thought Mary. She had more excuse than the others. Since Bert had convinced her that they should wait until his Navy enlistment was over before being married, time had stood still for Susan. Having Nancy here with her baby would make waiting all the harder. Susan's hunger for children of her own was a constant ache in Mary's heart, but still she wished that Susan could see Nancy's problem as clearly as her own. 6 HAVING Nancy here with the baby will make the time go faster for you," Richard suggested. "Oh, I'm sure it will be nice to have Nancy home, but I'm _ not looking forward to seeing her enRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 joy a baby when I can't have one myself." "Who's going to enjoy a little monster?" Dickie asked. "Dickie!" exclaimed his mother. "Your little nephew Larry is not a monster, and I don't want to hear you call him that again." "All babies are monsters," Dickie asserted. "Where did you son?" Richard asked. "That's what Billy calls their baby all the time. And he's disgusted because his mother is going to have another little monster almost any day now." Dickie paused in his task of spooning oatmeal just long enough to explode this bombshell.