[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Christmas | Author: Crawford]
Christmas in the Home el holidays are of long-lasting significance in the family pattern. Marked by family love and unity, they also set the pattern throughout the generations of those who have shared in the joy of the home, and who have carried its ideals in a design for affection and unity in the many new homes that are the branches of the family tree. Some small remembrance given in love, some gift requiring forethought and sacrifice, some handmade memento, may carry a long-continued aura of affection. 'There are many now grown old, and others at various stations along the lifetime progression, who recall a picture of father standing in the open door carrying in his arms the needle-boughed Christmas tree. And there are those who will not forget the blessed occasion of the exchange of gifts, with mother seated in the midst of the little ones. It is from the home that there must come the true and everlasting meaning of Christmas. It is there that children learn the difference between the symbol and the substance, the tinsel and the testament. The Wise Men, the shepherds, the star, the evergreen trees, the various customs in many lands — they are not Christmas — but they are symbols of Christmas. Such long-established and beloved symbols may help to impart the everlasting significance of the Christmas star and the birth of the Savior and this a small child can understand. Some children, even those who have not yet been to school, will listen to a few lines from the New Testament, wherein Luke speaks of the shepherds "abiding in the fields" and their journey to the manger. The children must be told that through the long centuries the people had looked for the coming of a King through the royal lineage of David — a King who would bring a message of salvation "from everlasting to everlasting." The children, seeing a star at the top of the Christmas tree, can be told of the new star that lighted the darkness of Bethlehem and shone above the place where the young Child lay. 'They may not understand the unlimited vastness of space and the innumerable suns and planets of the universe, but they can hear the story of a new light that came to illuminate the pathway for all children and for all people everywhere in every land, and through all the generations. And the Wise Men, journeying by the light of the star, coming from a far land, in search of a promised King — let the children hear for themselves the words of the Bible: "Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east." How quickly the Christmas Eve comes — how soon the Christmas Day departs — how soon the family is grown and the members scattered... How soon earth life is done. Let us cherish each moment with the children that the story of the first Christmas may become the reality of reverence and rejoicing. —V. P. C. 908 Color Transparency by Hal Rumel E have established a tradition in the family of having Christmas Eve dinner together in one of our homes. It is one of the few times during the year when all of us, my mother, brother, sisters, and children gather together, and we all look forward to it with keen anticipation. To me, it is the highlight of the Christmas season. It was our turn last year to have the party at my home, and what 910 fun it was to plan! From the first moment of their arrival, with everyone attired in his holiday best, the little ones scrubbed and combed, and wearing excited expressions, to the climax of the evening, when remembrances from Santa Claus were passed around, it was a truly happy occasion. The soft candlelight, the smell of pine, the warmth of the glowing fire and the gaily lighted Christmas tree combined to cast a magic spell. And the aroma of roasting turkey and freshly baked goodies added the finishing touch. The fireplace is the focal point in our living room, and the decoration I chose to hang on the wall last year dictated the color scheme for our table decorations. An old, worn violin was wired to large sprays of deep green pine. Attached to this were clusters of artificial fruits. Tables were set up in this room for the teenagers, and the tables were covered in cloths made from inexpensive drip-dry cotton in the bright colors of the fruits and greens. Centering each table were wicker sleds, sprayed with gold paint, trimmed with leftover bits of felt and velvet. Gold braid and paper decorations were glued on, and tiny bunches of fruit attached to both sides. These were filled with wrapped, homemade caramels. For place card holders, I sprayed pine cones gold, and tucked a tiny bunch of fruit in each one. In our television room, we set up a larger table for the younger children in the family. This was bright and gay, and especially interesting to them. Vivid red was used for the cloth, here, again in the cotton material. At each place was a candy cane with Santa Claus heads for the boys' places, and little girls' heads marking the girls' places. In the center of the table was a white candolier with white candles. Hanging from the branches of the candolier, in amusing positions, were wired pixie dolls, dressed in red, green, and white felt. At the base were fresh greens and white styrofoam balls. The dolls in their various positions caused a great deal of merriment for those little children. The grownups' table was in the dining room, and here, again, a bright color scheme was used. This table was more formal, but very festive by candlelight. I used a Bristol blue linen cloth which I trimmed in lime green fringe. The linen napkins were alternating blue and green. Tall blue tapers were used in the silver candelabra and glass hurricanes. Clusters of balls in assorted sizes, in blue, green, and silver completed the centerpiece. These were decorations that anyone could put together; but it was the use of many bright colors which were, nevertheless, complimentary to each other, against the simple beige background of my home, that made them warm and appealing. The candy filled sleds were given to each family as favors, and the children took home gaily wrapped trinkets from Santa Claus. No Christmas party would be complete without the singing of carols. And from the harmonies of the older members to the precious voices of the little ones, it was a heart-warming experience. We all had a prayer of thanksgiving in our hearts for our bounteous blessings, and I believe each one went to bed that night feeling that the real spirit of Christmas — gratitude for our Savior and love, one for another — was truly felt by all. 911 FARLY In the new year, Mother begins to plan and work on her decorations and gifts for the Christmas season. Her Christmas wreaths are beautiful to behold especially the ones which utilize the materials nature provides, If you wish to make a wreath of nuts and pine cones like the one pictured here, these are the things you will need: A styrofoam circle, which can be purchased at your florist or display house, or a substitute circle made of chicken wire stuffed with moss. Green plastic ribbon to wrap the circle or green or brown paint to Spray it. Hand, use the drill to bore a hole through the shell. Dip end of 2% inch piece of wire into the glue and Insert the same end into hole in nut. Set aside to dry. If you are adept with a jigsaw, cut pine cones into two-inch sections. Otherwise, ask your husband or butcher to do this, as there is no place on the wreath for a sawed-off thumb. Using the drill again, bore hole in back of pine cone, insert wire dipped in glue, and dry. Only the roses, Or tops of the pine cones, were used in the pictured wreath, but the other sections may be used. Now you are ready to form your wreath.