[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Trutton]
[The Breath of Life — National Tuberculosis Association James E. Perkins 903 nCTION Christmas With Auntie Helen H. Trutton]

ne Law and Church Government" was featured in the presentation "For God So Loved the World." The presentation ""I'oward Ideal Womanhood" based on the life of Mary Fielding Smith emphasized an application of eternal principles contained in the visiting teaching messages for the new season. Elder Frank W. Asper was at the console at both sessions in the 'Tabernacle on 'Thursday. Elder Marion G. Romney of The Council of The Twelve addressed the 1:30 P. M. Session on Thursday telling of the function of Relief Society to administer to the spiritual and physical needs of people and of the great service that has been given by the sisters in "supplying clothing, preserving of foodstuffs, nursing the sick, and all that relates to the care of the poor." Separate departmental — sessions were held in the afternoon for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, work meeting leaders, choristers and organists, Magazine representatives, and theology, literature, and social science class leaders. 889 ristmas with "Auntie Helen H. RIVING alone the fifty miles from my apartment in Council City to Uncle Ben's and Aunt Sarah's farm in Willow County, gave me time to reminisce about the happy holidays I had spent with them in former years. Five, to be exact, and every one filled with the spirit of true Christmas meaning. This one would be just as glorious as all the rest. It had to be, because it would be my last one with them before Gary returned from _ his Church mission in Scotland, and I wanted to carry a lasting memory of an old-fashioned Christmas, free of expensive gifts, debts, and worldly frivolities that seemed so prevalent in the world. I wanted their way to be a pattern for Gary and me and our future family. Auntie's invitation to spend the holidays with them lay beside me on 890 Trutton the car seat, but every time I thought about it, my enthusiasm took a sudden nosedive. Usually, she wrote pages of bubbling, exciting plans and news, even though she would be seeing me in a few days, but this year, the sparkle just wasn't in her words. Maybe she was busier than usual, or tired, but, again, she might not be well, or perhaps Uncle Ben was sick? 'There was nothing to do but wait. I tried to relax a little in my driving, traffic was very light, and I visualized Auntie at about this moment. Likely, she was hurrying about the kitchen, dressed in a crisp cotton frock with an immaculate gay apron tied around her slightly chubby waist, taking care of last minute details. When she would spot my car coming up the driveway, she would rush out the kitchen CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE. Door, still clutching whatever object she was working with at the moment, whether it be rolling pin, bread pan, or maybe a cookie cutter. "Camille, darling, I thought you'd never get here," she would greet me with open arms. "We should see you more often." Then she would look down at her usually doughy hands and apologize. "I should be finished with all this, but I had a few last minute chores." I laughed aloud. Aunt Sarah purposely left the cookie and bread making until late afternoon so the delicious aroma of fresh baking filled the room and encouraged appetites, or so I suspected. Fruit cakes and plum puddings had been prepared several weeks ago and stacked away in the basement until tonight when Uncle would bring them upstairs, and after supper, they would be delivered to neighbors in Willow County. There would be a cake and a knit shawl for Widow Marsh, as everyone called her; the Kennedy family — they had six children and he wasn't always able to find steady work — so they would find special little gifts in their box, like gay red mittens and warm socks, soft rag dolls and stuffed animals, plus the small gifts I had brought for them, and, of course, several loaves of fresh, light bread. The elderly Brother Barnes would get a basket of Auntie's goodies, a warm knit scarf, and an invitation to spend Christmas with us; the Wilsons, Carsons, and others I couldn't remember would receive a gift cake or a pudding. Naturally, Miss Emily Green, Aunt Sarah's best friend, would spend Christmas with us. She always did. 891 UDDENLY big snowflakes came swirling down from the gray skies, spreading a fresh blanket of white over the countryside as I came near the farm. If only Gary could spend Christmas with us, I breathed, as I drank in the beauty and peacefulness of the picturesque setting. But that wasn't possible, for he would not finish his mission until August, and was accepting a position in the East immediately. We would be married in the temple upon his return and leave for Philadelphia within the week. Glancing down at Auntie's note again, I repeated aloud her exact words: "We're looking forward to your visit as usual." Surely, she would have said something if she or Uncle were ill. I had been imagining things, been too overanxious with this being my last Christmas with them. Or was I? Her note had included only a few other sentences. 'Telephone lines had been down in Willow County, I couldn't call. As I came around the last bend in the road, I caught sight of their neat white farmhouse nestled against the foothills, looking like a frosty painting on a Christmas card. A large glittering tree, decorated with brightly sequined lights, twinkled out its cheery welcome through the front window, and old Britt, the family dog, lazily got up from the porch and trotted out to meet me. Other than that, the place remained as quiet as a tomb after I stopped the car. Quickly gathering an armload of packages from the back seat, I passed loyal old Britt without even a pat as I hurried up the steps and knocked. There was a shuffling sound in- 892 side and the door opened. Auntie looked at me in astonishment. "Why I can't believe you could drive up without my seeing you. I must have really been preoccupied. Come in, Camille darling," and she hugged me closely to her as my packages tumbled to the floor. "Aunt Sarah, are you all right?" I asked when she gave me a chance to speak. "Of course, dear." "And Uncle Ben?" - "Same as ever." He came forward, kissing me on the cheek. "Sarah and I were just talking about how we're going to miss you next year." He picked up my packages from the floor and loaded my arms again. "We're mighty happy for you, though." "He's a_ lucky one." Auntie squeezed my hand. "Here, let me help you with those packages. I hope you haven't spent money on us." "Not much. Most of them I made. You taught me that," I said as we walked into the living room and placed the gifts under the tree. And then I noticed Emily Green was missing. Ae HERE'S Emily?" W Aunt Sarah turned away, but not before I saw the hurt look in her eyes. "She isn't spending Christmas with us this year." "Why?" I asked, astonished. "Ts she ill?" "No. Well, she's just not spending Christmas with us, that's all. Now, if you'll excuse me, dear, I'll finish up in the kitchen," and she hurried out of the room. "Why?" I repeated, turning to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 Uncle Ben. "Emily is always here. She doesn't have any near relatives." "IT know, but things are different this. Year," he said, looking to make sure Aunt Sarah was out of hearing before he sat down beside me. "You see, they had a misunderstanding. Emily likely wouldn't come even if Sarah asked her." "They've been friends since they were children. Besides, it just isn't like Auntie to hold a grudge." "Sarah is miserable," Uncle Ben sighed. "Do you mind telling me about it?" He ran his hand through his thick gray hair before speaking. "It's ridiculous. Last fall, just before the county fair," he hesitated a moment, "Emily raises dahlias, you know." "Yes, I know." "She had a rare beauty. Sarah went up to see it a few days before the fair, and, well, Britt tagged along. That's not unusual," he looked quickly at me. "He often does." "Go on." "I don't know what got into that dog. He saw a mole digging, of all places, right by that prize dahlia, and before Sarah or Emily could do anything, he dug the plant up, trying to get the blame rodent. Emily was furious." "IT suppose she would be disappointed, but she must have known it wasn't Auntie's fault." "She should have. Sarah apologized and offered to pay for it. She even offered to give Emily her best dahlia." Uncle shook his head sadly. "Sarah didn't even enter her dahlias in the fair out of respect for Emily's bad luck." "Tf Auntie apologized, even offered CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE restitution, what more could she have done?" "I don't know, Camille. Sarah thinks it's up to Emily to speak up mipsee." "I hoped Sarah would try again, but she has not." "I'm sorry, Uncle Ben." UNTIE came back into the room and sat down opposite us. "Is Gary still happy on his mission?" she asked.