[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: [Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Unknown | Title: V49_12_00_CONTENTS]]
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  December  1902 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
CHRISTMAS  THOUGHTS:  It  is  but  a  small  thing  to  give  of  one's  substance, 
but  how  great  comparatively  to  receive  the  compensation  of  the  soul  that  comes 
through  reaction  to  the  giver.  The  joy  one  feels  but  does  not  quite  comprehend, 
which  invariably  comes  afterwards  to  those  whose  hearts  are  attuned  to  harmony  and 
love  for  all  mankind.  .  .  .  The  Christmas  spirit  is  one  of  forgiveness,  it  partakes  of  the 
charity  that  forgives  seventy  times  seven,  delighting  in  doing  good  to  suffering  hu- 
manity. ...  —  Editorial 
CHRISTMAS  CAROL 
The  wise  men  journey  from  afar, 
And  follow  close  His  guiding  star; 
It  stands  o'er  Bethlehem  tonight. 
Imposing,  wondrous,  is  the  sight. 
O,  hear  the  angels  sing  again, 
"On  earth  dawns  peace,  good  will  to  men." 
He  lowly  in  the  manger's  laid. 
No  room  for  him  can  else  be  made.  .  .  . 
—  Lydia  D.  Alder 
TESTIMONIAL  TO  SISTER  M.  I.  HORNE:  The  anniversary  of  Sister  M.  I. 
Home's  eighty-fourth  birthday  was  celebrated  by  the  officers  and  members  of  the 
Relief  Society  of  Salt  Lake  Stake.  .  .  .  President  Angus  M.  Cannon  addressed  the  sisters: 
I  am  very  glad  to  be  honored  and  privileged  to  meet  with  Sister  Home  and  the  rest  of 
the  sisters.  ...  I  have  been  acquainted  with  her  for  fifty-eight  years.  ...  I  thought 
while  sitting  here  of  the  experience  this  "woman  has  obtained  in  gaining  a  testimony 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  in  associating  with  the  wives  and  brethren  of  some 
of  the  twelve  apostles.  .  .  .  She  was  acquainted  with  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  with  his 
brother  Hyrum,  and  with  his  sisters  and  with  his  other  brothers.  .  ,  .  When  I  have 
thought  of  a  happy  home  and  of  the  dignity  of  a  woman,  a  woman  of  gentle  and 
queenly  dignity,  I  have  thought  of  Joseph  Home,  Sister  Home,  their  children,  and  the 
government  of  their  family.  ...        —  News  Note 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  WOODRUFF  STAKE:  Sister  Steven- 
son and  Sister  Badger,  visitors  from  Salt  Lake  City,  were  on  the  stand  ,  .  .  Sister 
Stevenson  said  the  Relief  Society  work  is  a  self-denying  work  .  ,  .  spoke  of  the  love  and 
unity  that  should  be  in  the  family  circle,  teach  our  daughters  how  to  be  good  wives 
and  our  sons  to  seek  a  wife  by  inspiration;  said  the  duties  of  a  Relief  Society  teacher 
were  very  sacred  and  they  were  the  backbone  of  Relief  Society.  .  .  .  Let  us  not  forget 
the  dead  or  neglect  the  wonderful  work  for  them.  .  .  .  We  are  to  be  judged  out  of 
the  books,  and  I  believe  one  of  these  is  the  Relief  Society  books.  We  don't  want  to 
be  at  ease  in  Zion,  we  want  to  set  an  example  that  our  lives  will  be  acceptable  to  the 
Lord.  ...  —  Katie  H.  Eppich,  Stake  Sec. 
NOTES  AND  NEWS:  Mrs.  Kipling,  the  mother  of  Rudyard  Kipling,  has  just 
published,  with  her  daughter,  Mrs.  Fleming,  a  little  book  of  poems  entitled  "Hand 
in  Hand." 
904