[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 41 | Category: Lesson | Title: Theology — The Waters and the Land | Author: Roy W. Doxey]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 kind. 'The house of Israel was comparatively small, but through this small but choice group the Savior' of mankind, the Son of the living God was to come. Moses and the Wilderness As a Training Ground Moses, divinely chosen and miraculously preserved for the leadership of Israel, was taken out of Egypt and trained under the direction of the Lord for the task of returning Istael to the promised land. Moses received the Priesthood from Jethro and a special commission from God himself. He led Israel from Egypt to the wilderness and for forty years trained them in the divine law. The influence of the Pharaohs was strong upon the children of Israel. The law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth was the type of direction they understood. The Ten Commandments were to be understood in terms of daily behavior. Moses taught with patience and diligence, praying for their response in righteousness. 'The golden calf, an idol, was made while Moses talked with God. Instructions written by the finger of God on stone tablets were broken to bits when Moses saw the children of Israel worshiping the idol. 'They were not ready for the new instructions. But Moses pleaded for his people and continued to teach the law pertaining to every human relationship, the responsibility for conduct and proper recognition for the Priesthood. The people were slow to respond. Finally, God took Moses and the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood out of their midst. 'The Aaronic Priesthood was left for their official direction until the coming of Christ. LESSON DEPARTMENT Fulfilling the Law The dispensation of Christ is referred to as the meridian of time. All the prophets from Adam on taught the mission of Jesus Christ and that he would be crucified for the sins of the world. They pointed out that faith in his atoning sacrifice is the key to the blessing of salvation and exaltation. That Jesus, the Son of God, would be born into the world was the testimony of every true prophet. He alone could overcome death and make certain the resurrection. He fulfilled the law, justified the prophets, and testified to the reality of God, the Eternal Father. His teachings graphically express the meaning of the divine law revealed to Adam. Jesus was the personification of the first great commandment, love of God, and of the second, love of fellow men. The importance of human behavior in relation to exaltation is expressed in the Beatitudes presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Christ's life is an example of the effectiveness of divine law in producing perfection in human behavior. In spite of the heralding of angels at his birth; the identification of Jesus as the Son of God as revealed by the Father at the time of Christ's baptism; his ministry of miracles; the organization and functioning of his Church upon the earth; and his resurrection, his chosen people did not accept him. Acceptance required faith in the fact of his divine origin. 'They could not believe. Consequently, the Priesthood and his Church were taken from the earth. 947