[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Parker]
Of the General Board at a beautiful reception in the Relief Society Building. The second day of the conference Courtesy the Deseret News THE OPENING SESSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE, 1962 President Belle S. Spafford stands at the pulpit addressing the audience. Seated at President Spafford's right, First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, and at her left, Second Counselor Louise W. Madsen. Seated at the right: Elder Mark E. Petersen of The Council of The Twelve, and President Joseph Fielding Smith, President of The Council of The Twelve, advisors to Relief Society; Sister Jessie Evans Smith. Members of the General Board of Relief Society are seated in front, and the Singing Mothers are seen in the background, with their conductor, Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society, seated at the right. Was devoted to impressive presentations in the Tabernacle featuring the various courses of study for the 1962- 63 season, and to specific instructions for stake and mission officers in separate departmental sessions. The presentation "An Eye Single to My Glory" introduced the theology course, the sixth year of the study of The Doctrine and Covenants. A glimpse into some of the writings of the authors to be studied in the fifth year of the course on American literature was given in the dramatization "Stairway of Surprise," and a new social science course on "Divine Law and Church Government" was featured in the presentation "For God So Loved the World." The presentation ""I'oward Ideal Womanhood" based on the life of Mary Fielding Smith emphasized an application of eternal principles contained in the visiting teaching messages for the new season. Elder Frank W. Asper was at the console at both sessions in the 'Tabernacle on 'Thursday. Elder Marion G. Romney of The Council of The Twelve addressed the 1:30 P. M. Session on Thursday telling of the function of Relief Society to administer to the spiritual and physical needs of people and of the great service that has been given by the sisters in "supplying clothing, preserving of foodstuffs, nursing the sick, and all that relates to the care of the poor." Separate departmental — sessions were held in the afternoon for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, work meeting leaders, choristers and organists, Magazine representatives, and theology, literature, and social science class leaders. 889 ristmas with "Auntie Helen H. RIVING alone the fifty miles from my apartment in Council City to Uncle Ben's and Aunt Sarah's farm in Willow County, gave me time to reminisce about the happy holidays I had spent with them in former years. Five, to be exact, and every one filled with the spirit of true Christmas meaning. This one would be just as glorious as all the rest. It had to be, because it would be my last one with them before Gary returned from _ his Church mission in Scotland, and I wanted to carry a lasting memory of an old-fashioned Christmas, free of expensive gifts, debts, and worldly frivolities that seemed so prevalent in the world. I wanted their way to be a pattern for Gary and me and our future family. Auntie's invitation to spend the holidays with them lay beside me on 890 Trutton the car seat, but every time I thought about it, my enthusiasm took a sudden nosedive. Usually, she wrote pages of bubbling, exciting plans and news, even though she would be seeing me in a few days, but this year, the sparkle just wasn't in her words. Maybe she was busier than usual, or tired, but, again, she might not be well, or perhaps Uncle Ben was sick? 'There was nothing to do but wait. I tried to relax a little in my driving, traffic was very light, and I visualized Auntie at about this moment. Likely, she was hurrying about the kitchen, dressed in a crisp cotton frock with an immaculate gay apron tied around her slightly chubby waist, taking care of last minute details. When she would spot my car coming up the driveway, she would rush out the kitchen CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE. Door, still clutching whatever object she was working with at the moment, whether it be rolling pin, bread pan, or maybe a cookie cutter. "Camille, darling, I thought you'd never get here," she would greet me with open arms. "We should see you more often." Then she would look down at her usually doughy hands and apologize. "I should be finished with all this, but I had a few last minute chores." I laughed aloud. Aunt Sarah purposely left the cookie and bread making until late afternoon so the delicious aroma of fresh baking filled the room and encouraged appetites, or so I suspected. Fruit cakes and plum puddings had been prepared several weeks ago and stacked away in the basement until tonight when Uncle would bring them upstairs, and after supper, they would be delivered to neighbors in Willow County. There would be a cake and a knit shawl for Widow Marsh, as everyone called her; the Kennedy family — they had six children and he wasn't always able to find steady work — so they would find special little gifts in their box, like gay red mittens and warm socks, soft rag dolls and stuffed animals, plus the small gifts I had brought for them, and, of course, several loaves of fresh, light bread. The elderly Brother Barnes would get a basket of Auntie's goodies, a warm knit scarf, and an invitation to spend Christmas with us; the Wilsons, Carsons, and others I couldn't remember would receive a gift cake or a pudding. Naturally, Miss Emily Green, Aunt Sarah's best friend, would spend Christmas with us. She always did. 891 UDDENLY big snowflakes came swirling down from the gray skies, spreading a fresh blanket of white over the countryside as I came near the farm. If only Gary could spend Christmas with us, I breathed, as I drank in the beauty and peacefulness of the picturesque setting. But that wasn't possible, for he would not finish his mission until August, and was accepting a position in the East immediately. We would be married in the temple upon his return and leave for Philadelphia within the week. Glancing down at Auntie's note again, I repeated aloud her exact words: "We're looking forward to your visit as usual." Surely, she would have said something if she or Uncle were ill. I had been imagining things, been too overanxious with this being my last Christmas with them. Or was I? Her note had included only a few other sentences. 'Telephone lines had been down in Willow County, I couldn't call. As I came around the last bend in the road, I caught sight of their neat white farmhouse nestled against the foothills, looking like a frosty painting on a Christmas card. A large glittering tree, decorated with brightly sequined lights, twinkled out its cheery welcome through the front window, and old Britt, the family dog, lazily got up from the porch and trotted out to meet me. Other than that, the place remained as quiet as a tomb after I stopped the car. Quickly gathering an armload of packages from the back seat, I passed loyal old Britt without even a pat as I hurried up the steps and knocked. There was a shuffling sound in- 892 side and the door opened. Auntie looked at me in astonishment. "Why I can't believe you could drive up without my seeing you. I must have really been preoccupied. Come in, Camille darling," and she hugged me closely to her as my packages tumbled to the floor. "Aunt Sarah, are you all right?"