[Vol49 | December 1962 | Sequence: 40 | Category: Fiction | Title: Out of the Wilderness | Author: Shirley Thulin]
Out of the Wilderness
CHAPTER 6
Shirley Thulin

Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come to Montana to supervise assessment work on the mining property owned by the family. They encounter many difficulties, and they mistrust Jake Hadley, the owner of a neighboring mine, who has made protestations of friendship. While Marian and the older boys are repairing the roof on the cabin, three-year-old Jill wanders away and becomes lost in the wilderness.

ARIAN and Jim hurried along M toward the road that led to the Silver Bear mine to get help. Jim's long, anxious strides made it difficult for Marian to keep up with him as they picked their way over roots and rocks. Daylight was slipping away, and Jill was out there somewhere in the wilderness alone, frightened.... "Jim, there's not much time left, is there?" Marian was talking more to herself than to him. "Hurry, Mother, just hurry." His words were so sharp that Marian knew something other than worry was mixed with them. "Jim, wait." As he turned, she could see there was something besides fright in his eyes, and there were lines of pain around his mouth. "Jim, what is it?" "Nothing, let's just hurry." "Oh, Jim, your wrist!" Marian saw that he was holding his right arm with his left hand. "Let me see it, son." "We haven't time. Every minute counts. "But." more. He strode out ahead of her and thereby dismissed further conversation. 'They were almost running now, but running where? Marian knew that Jill could be clear over the opposite mountain by now. But even as she thought this, something compelled her feet to move quickly in the direction of the mine. They hurried along in silence. Then Marian turned around to see where the sun was. It was setting on a ridge between two towering peaks, reluctant to go behind the mountain. It seemed to know how much its light meant to them. "Jim, will the men at the Silver Bear have something to light our way? 'Torches, maybe, or...?" "They have carbide lamps. They use them for light in the mines." "Oh, yes, I remember the carbide lamps." "I didn't think to bring ours. They're back in the shed. Come on, Mother, please hurry." They were coming to a clearing She could say no 921 922 now, and even after so many years, Marian recognized the woodenframed hole in the face of the mountain. It was their mine, the "Silver Star." "Jim.' Marian's feet were heavy, her body weary. She leaned against a tree and put her hand up to her pounding chest. "What's the matter?" he came back to her, a mixture of anxiety and annoyance in his face. "Ym I'm out of breath. [ll have to rest a minute... Just a minute." Jim wiped his forehead with the back of his left arm, and Marian saw the swelling in his nght wrist as he let go of it. She didn't say anything. She knew they must find Jill. 'There was no time for swollen wrists, or for being tired. She straightened up and tried to make her feet take her where she knew they must. Jim looked at the lowering sun, and then at the path that now began its steep climb over the hill to the other mine. "Mother, I think you had better go back to the cabin. I can go faster by myself." "No, Jim. I can't." "Then wait here. I'll go for the men and when we come back, you'll be rested." "No! I've got to go with you." "Mother, please. We are losing too much time." There was a new note in his voice. It was a note that hung somewhere between tolerance and anger. Marian knew he was right. She knew she must not slow him down, but how could she stay here alone? How could she just sit here on a rock and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 do nothing toward finding Jill? Finally her words came. Slowly she told him she would stay, but as he started to run up the path, she called him, called his name as though she were grabbing a floating log in the sea of bewilderment that swirled around her. Even as her words formed his name, she was sorry — ashamed. He stopped and turned. She lifted her hand and waved him on. He smiled briefly and waved in silent acknowledgment of what he must have known she felt, then went swiftly on his way, up the trail and out of sight in the underbrush. OR a long time Marian watched the place where he had vanished from her view. 'Too heartsick to think, too weary to move, she leaned there against the tree. 'Then realization began to take hold of her. She should have told Jim she would go back to the cabin. At least she could do something worthwhile there, get something for the other children to eat and comfort them. Here she could do nothing. It was too late to go now. She had said she would wait here. Why did she always make such poor choices, she wondered? Why did she seem to be so short-sighted? She looked around her. The last flickers of sunlight struck the mine entrance at an odd angle, and lighted part of the way inside. The rail was rusty from idleness, and partly covered with dirt. The old brown boards that outlined the mouth of the mine looked rotted as though a push would send them crashing to the ground. Marian's gaze was about to move on, when something caught her OUT OF THE WILDERNESS eye. Something peculiar about the ground where the dampness had settled just outside the mine. "Tt can't be!" she said aloud. Running to the spot which now revealed itself as truly the little girl's footprints in the wet earth, she knelt down. 'There were many prints in all directions, and she was sure they were made by fill. For a moment her thoughts came and went in almost hysterical unrealities. Then fear gripped her anew. Jill's in the mine, she told herself. And though she had been terrified when she first knew her baby was somewhere in the woods, she was even more so now. The mine, to Marian, held even worse danger than the trees and underbrush. From her honeymoon days she remembered the mine. David had coaxed so hard to get her to put on a pair of his coveralls and the heavy helmet with the light attached.