Guide Lessons for October
LESSON I (First Week in October)
Theology and Testimony
THE ABRAHAMIC DISPENSATION, CONTINUED
PART III?JACOB
A. JACOB, "A NOBLE SPIRIT."
1. Jacob, like Isaac, was a child of promise. The leadership qualities of his spirit were indicated to his mother, by the Lord when he answered her inquiry. See Genesis 25:22-23.
2. Jacob's spiritual heirship to the major blessing was clearly pointed to by the predictions made upon his head by Isaac under the inspiration of the Lord. (See Gen. 27:28, 29, 33, 37.)
B. SPECIAL BLESSINGS RECEIVED BY JACOB.
1. The blessing of leadership by Isaac. (See Gen. 27:28, 29, 33, 37.)
2. The blessing of posterity and possession by Isaac. (See Gen. 28:1-6.)
3. The blessing by the Lord himself followed by Jacob's covenant to pay tithing. (See Gen. 28:11-22.)
4. The blessing wrestled all night for. (Gen. 32:24-30.)
5. The Blessing of a new name and the possessing of the land of Promise repeated by the Lord at Bethel, the place of Jacob's covenant two years before. (Gen. 35:7-15.)
6. The blessing with a promise to make Israel a great nation. (Gen. 46:1-4.) The promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob before this was that of the nations of the earth being blessed through them; but now the blessing of nationality was pronounced. Israel as a nation was to begin in Egypt in fulfilment of Divine promise.
C. BLESSINGS GIVEN BY JACOB IN EGYPT.
1. To Pharaoh: (a) When he first met the king. (Gen. 47:7.) (b) When he left Pharaoh. (Gen. 47:10.)
2. To Joseph's sons Ephraim and Manasseh. (Gen. 48:8-20.)
3. To each of his twelve sons. (Gen. 49:1-27.)
It is important to note the superiority of Judah and Joseph in
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 441
the posterity of Jacob. The history of Israel is full of evidence that Jacob was possessed of the spirit of prophecy when he blessed his posterity. Joseph was surely a fruitful bough whose branches ran over the wall. His posterity people America the land "choice above all other lands."
D. SOME SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF JACOB.
1. He valued spiritual blessings.
2. He called upon the Lord for help in hours of adversity, and acknowledged God as the source of his prosperity. Gen. 31:42; 32:9, 10, 11.)
3. He lived with idolators peacefully and prosperously but never became one of them. (Gen. 35:1, 2, 3, 4.)
4. He was obedient to the Lord and his parents.
5. He was guided by the spirit of inspiration rather than by the wishes of men.
6. Come what would, he never complained against the Lord.
7. He believed in divine promises, did his best for their fulfilment, and trusted in the Lord for the rest.
8. He severely penalized unchastity and the shedding of blood. (Gen. 48:5.)
9. His life, like Adam's ended with blessing his posterity.
E. SOME CONCLUSIONS FOR STUDY.
1. Jacob's early-life nature was an admixture of selfishness, strength, and spirituality. The name "Jacob" means one who takes by the heel or seeks to trip or supplant another. His strength of purpose, and power to achieve gave stability to his nature. His spirituality struggled against selfishness for his strength and prevailed. And the elements of his nature were crystalized into a character to whom God gave the name of Israel?"God persists." The great lesson to be learned from the life of Jacob is that the spiritual life in which God is a source of reference and reverence will so modify and adjust our mixed natures that each will become crystalized character of which it may be said: "More precious than the gold of Ophir." Our part in the process of crystalization must not be just yielding, it must be of the Jacob type?doing and trusting.
2. There was some considerable difference between the "Jacob" bartering for his brother's birth-right and the "Israel" blessing a Pharaoh of Egypt.
F. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. Relate the circumstance through which Jacob became a child of promise.
2. Prove Jacob's obedience to his parents. (Gen. 27:41-46; 28:1-10.)
3. Tell about Jacob's tithing contract with the Lord.


4. Give Laban's testimony concerning the source of his prosperity under Jacob's management. (Gen. 30:25-27.)
5. Give Jacob's own testimony to his wives concerning the secret of his prosperity and protection from injury and their reply. (Gen. 31:1-7, 16.)
6. What was the origin and meaning of the name of Israel and what does it stand for today?
7. What was the significance of the burying all of the pagan relics or souvenirs by Israel (Jacob)?
8. What new feature of theological government did the Lord provide for in giving Jacob twelve sons?
9. What special promise from the Lord was made to Jacob (Israel) just before he went down to Egypt.
10. Tell of Jacob's (Israel's) blessing (a). Pharaoh, (b) Ephraim and Manasseh and his twelve sons, and what is the greatest point in Judah's blessing?
11. Wherein is Joseph's blessing most glorious?
12. What is to be learned concerning a woman's theological privileges by Genesis 25:22, 23?
13. Discuss Jacob's respect for his wives in counseling with them and the ideal confidence of Leah and Rachel in their husband. (Gen. 31:4-7 and 14, 15, 16.)
LESSON II (Second Week in October)
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER A Better and Saner Hallowe'en
Importance of directing instead of repressing the children's activities.
Need of: (a) Understanding a child's idea of right and wrong. (b) Good, wholesome fun.
Parents should know where their children are and what they are doing. Are they destroying their neighbors' property? Do they know the origin and purpose of Hallowe'en? When little ones use jack-o-lanterns make sure they are safe. Serious accidents have happened from the use of paper and pasteboard ones.
If parents would join in the frolics of the night. Children would enjoy it better.
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 443
LESSON III (Third Week in October)
Literature
EDWIN MARKHAM
Edwin Markham is a western poet. He was born in Oregon City, Oregon, April 23, 1853, and reared in the state of California. His father was Samuel Markham, and his mother Elizabeth Winchell Markham. His childhood days were spent on his mother's rancho, near Suisun, California, as the family moved to California when the boy was five years of age. During his boyhood days, he worked at farming, blacksmithing, and at herding sheep and cattle. He attended the San Jose Normal School where he specialized in ancient and modern languages. Later, he continued his studies in other institutions of the west. He married Anna Catherine Murphy, in 1897. For many years he devoted himself to teaching and educational work. He was principal and superintendent of schools in California until 1889, at which time he resigned to devote himself to literary work. He has been a contributor to the newspapers of California and the magazines of the United States since his early boyhood. In his most famous collection "The Man with the Hoe and Other Poems," he states that many of the poems contained therein appeared in Scribners, The Century, The Atlantic and the San Francisco Examiner.


It was our good fortune to hear Edwin Markham in a lecture, in 1915. His full face and white hair made him resemble the poet Longfellow. And his complexion brought to mind the well known lines of Dr. Holmes, "And his cheeks were like a rose in the snow." To the great delight of his audience, he made several references, during the evening, to the Man with the Hoe, which is undoubtedly one of the greatest of American poems. Edwin Markham did not ignore the natural beauty about him; he has paid many tributes to the flowers, trees, and birds of his home state, having immortalized the well known California poppy. Yet Edwin Markham has not been interested primarily in nature. His great heart has gone out, above all else, to man, who was given dominion over God's other creations. Among the best known of French painters is Jean Francois Millet. Before Millet, no painter in France had dared to portray the homely life of the peasant on canvas. Millet startled his contemporaries by painting, The Angelus, The Gleaners, Feeding the Birds, and The Man with the Hoe. Then the day came when painter and poet met. Edwin Markham looked into the face of Millet's peasant and the meaning of it all bore in upon his soul with such tremendous force, and stirred the life within him to such depths, that he gave us "The Man with the Hoe," a poem that has been translated into practically every well known European language and also Japanese:
God made man in His own image, in the image of God made He him.?Genesis.
Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground, The emptiness of ages in his face, And on his back the burden of the world. Who made him dead to rapture and despair, A thing that grieves not and that never hopes, Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox? Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw? Whose was the hand that slanted back this brow? Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
Is this the thing the Lord God made and gave To have dominion over sea and land; To trace the stars and search the heavens for power; To feel the passion of Eternity?
Is this the Dream He dreamed who shaped the suns And marked their ways upon the ancient deep? Down all the stretch of hill to its last grief There is no shape more terrible than this? More tongued with censure of the world's blind greed? More filled with signs and portents for the soul? More fraught with danger to the universe.
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 445
What gulfs between him and the seraphim! Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades? What the long reaches of the peaks of song, The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look; Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop; Through this dread shape humanity betrayed, Plundered, profaned, and disinherited, Cries protest to the Judges of the World, A protest that is also prophecy.
O masters, lords and rulers in all lands, Is this the handiwork you give to God, This monstrous thing distorted and soul-quenched? How will you ever straighten up this shape; Touch it again with immortality; Give back the upward looking and the light; Rebuild in it the music and the dream; Make right the unmemorial infamies, Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes?
O, masters, lords and rulers in all lands, How will the Future reckon with this Man? How answer his brute question in that hour When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world? How will it be with kingdoms and with kings? With those who shaped him to the thing he is? When this dumb Terror shall reply to God After the silence of the centuries?
America has in the main been proud of the sterling character of her poets. Mr. Markham deserves to stand beside Longfellow, Lowell, and Bryant, for his poems breathe the same high purpose, the same trust in God, and the same purity of soul as do theirs. As evidence of these characteristics, we include the poem entitled "A Prayer."
Teach me, Father, how to go Softly as the grasses grow; Hush my soul to meet the shock Of the wild world as a rock; But my spirit prop with power, Make as simple as a flower. Let the dry heart fill its cup, Like a poppy looking up; Let life lightly wear her crown, Like a poppy looking down When its heart is filled with dew, And its life begins anew.
Teach me, Father, how to be Kind and patient as a tree, Joyfully the crickets croon Under shady oak at noon; Beetle on his mission bent Tarries in that cooling tent,


Let me, also, cheer a spot, Hidden field or garden grot? Place where passing souls can rest On the way and be their best.
The character and work of Abraham Lincoln has always tempted the poet as well as the writer of fiction. Many tributes have been paid the martyred President in verse, but none are nobler, and in none does the verse move with more rhythemic majesty, than in the tribute of Edwin Markham. We can not publish the entire poem in this lesson, we shall include only a few of the choicest lines but should be glad to have the members of the class read the poem in its entirety if they have access to it:
"A man that matched the mountains and compelled The stars to look our way and honor us."

"And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down As when a kingly cedar, green with boughs, Goes down with a great shout upon the hills, And leaves a lonesome place against the sky."
Howard Willard Cook says, "Mr. Markham has never been a prolific writer as poets today go, but his verse has attained a distinction and fineness that some of our younger writers might do well to pattern from." California, like Indiana, saw fit to honor her chief poet by inaugurating a Markham Evening. April 30 has been set aside as Markham Evening.
Markham has the voice and the soul of the poet. This voice speaks through such poems as, The Poet, Joy of Morning and The Joy of the Hills. Because of the freedom and joy breathed through the lines in The Joy of the Hills, we conclude our lesson with it:
I ride on the mountain tops, I ride, I have found my life and am satisfied, Onward I ride in the blowing oats, Checking the field-larks' rippling notes? Lightly I sweep From steep to steep: Over my head through the branches high Come glimpses of a rushing sky; The tall oats brush my horse's flanks; Wild poppies crowd on the sunny banks; A bee booms