out of the scented grass; A jay laughs with me as I pass.
I ride on the hills, I forgive, I forget Life's hoard of regret? All the terror and pain Of the chafing chain. Grind on, O cities, grind;
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 447
I leave you a blur behind, I am lifted, elate?the skies expand; Here the world's heaped gold in a pile of sand. Let them weary and work in their narrow walls; I ride with the voices of waterfalls! I swing on as one in a dream, I swing Down the airy hollows, I shout, I sing; The world is gone like an empty word; My body's a bough in the wind, my heart a bird!
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. It is very evident that "The Man with the Hoe" is a protest poem; against what, in the main, is the protest hurled?
2. What has the poet reference to when he speaks of "The light within this brain."
3. Explain as best you can these verses, "What gulfs between him and the Seraphim!" "Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him are Plato and the swing of Pleiades?" "What the long reaches of the peaks of song, The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?"
4. The class teacher should be careful to look up the meaning of any words in the poem that may not be understood.
5. Discuss the joy of contact with the hills. Do you feel much as the poet feels when you are in the hills?
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in October)
Social Service
THE CARE OF THE AGED
As the individual passes through the different periods of life?infancy, childhood, youth, maturity and old age?he must adapt himself to the new situations and the new requirements made of him. During the years of maturity, he realizes his full powers, and gains a measure of stability and security. During this period the individual's earning capacity is at its height and at this time, too, he usually establishes a home and achieves some of the other goals to which he has been striving. He perhaps meets some failures and disappointments but with his mental and physical energies at their best, he is usually able to transcend these defeats and sorrows. It is difficult for men and women to realize that the strength and ability of maturity are not permanent powers. Before many years, the most active intelligence loses some of its alertness; the strongest physique becomes weakened and less vigorous; the skilled musician and the gifted writer both lose some of their genius as they pass from maturity to old age.


The transition from the period of strength and power to a less strenuous and a less active career is a difficult one to make. It is often an unhappy moment when an individual realizes that he must relinquish his place in the affairs of the world and resign himself to comparative idleness and inactivity. Perhaps the most difficult adjustment that life requires in the career of each individual is the adjustment to old age and its accompanying infirmities. It is often a difficult matter for younger people to understand the problems of their elders. Elderly people frequently present some sort of problem both within the home circle and to social workers. It is probable that the main source of these difficulties lies in the fact that the younger generation does not understand the outlook and the emotions of the elderly persons. In order to keep the person in declining years from feeling defeated and futile, it is necessary to find for him some interest and some expression which will compensate him for the place he has lost in affairs of home and business. It may be some light work, reading, or some activity in the community or church. It must be remembered that elderly people, as in the case of children and adults, must be considered individually. Each individual has his particular interests, his particular friends, and his own ideas as to how to spend his time. It is often quite a mistake to plan for an elderly person without consulting his ideas and his desires. More attention must be given to physical care as old age approaches. Suitable living quarters and adequate food, and necessary medical and nursing care, should be a minimum standard that the community sets for the care of its aged. It is not uncommon to find a lone elderly man or woman, living in a comfortless room, receiving no care and attention. It is true that it is often difficult to persuade an elderly person, accustomed to a particular environment, to move. But usually, if an opportunity to live in more comfortable circumstances is offered, and the arguments in favor of the prospective change are tactfully presented, the hesitancy and unwillingness are overcome. Because of the impaired health and decreasing activity, elderly people sometimes have serious economic problems to meet. Even when an elderly person has savings, he is reluctant to spend all he has, for he never wishes to become entirely dependent. He is therefore often very reticent, even to his family and closest friends, about his finances. Neighbors and social agencies sometimes care for an elderly person for years, without knowing that the person may have a substantial bank account or valuable property. Considering that the aged need proper physical and adequate financial care, and that they should be associated as pleasantly as possible with their main lifelong interests?their business,
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 449
old friends, and their family?it is evident that it is important to understand each individual person and his problems. Elderly persons have a deep affection for their home. "Home," as one of our contemporary poets says, "is where you bring your children up." The house and the neighborhood where the busiest, happiest years were spent, have a strong hold on the interests and emotions of the aged, and it is usually a sorrowful day when it is necessary to break away from the old surroundings. It is perhaps better for an elderly couple, or an elderly person, to remain in the old environment, if practical from a financial standpoint, and if the proper physical care can be provided. If it is not feasible nor desirable for elderly persons to live in the old home or neighborhood, perhaps the next best plan is to have them live with grown sons or daughters. It is regrettable that such a plan is not always successful, largely because the children fail to understand and respect the position of their parents. It should be unnecessary to mention that the elderly person should not be made to feel dependent and unwelcome. The responsibility children owe their parents is too obvious to need discussion, and children should be as willing and eager to care for parents in their declining years, as the parents were to struggle and sacrifice for the children. When it is not possible to maintain an elderly person either in his own home or with his own people, it may be advisable to find a pleasant boarding house for him. A boarding home usually provides the necessary physical care and besides gives the person a feeling of belonging to a home. He receives a friendly interest that does much to make his days agreeable. Many of our elderly people are cared for in private or public institutions. Institutional care is oftentimes necessary and many elderly people enjoy the comforts of such group life and the company of their associates. Those who are familiar with institutional life know that visits or letters from old acquaintances and friends are events of importance to them. Elderly relatives or friends deserve any attention and kindness that can be extended them. Reference: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 175-192. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Why is it difficult to adjust to old age? Ae Why do elderly people like to remain in their fo surroundings? 3. When is it advisable for elderly people to remain in old environment? When is it advisable to have them move? 4. Why should children assume the financial responsibility for the care of their parents? 5. Why are parents sometimes unhappy living with their married children? ELECTRIC COOKING No Ashes?No Soot?No Smoke? No Fumes COSTS LESS UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service (? The BEST You've Tasted! Surprise the family by serving Pierce's Pork and Beans. Tender, golden beans, in steaming hot, savory tomato sauce made from Utah's choicest tomatoes. UTAH CANNING CO. "Ogden Since 1888" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine And several other good comics. KATHLEEN KAYE And the Heartitorium department. DOROTHY DIX The world's most widely read newspaper writer. These and many other services and features appear only in Are You a Subscriber? A Dividend of 10% to all paid in advance subscribers. Send your order today. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PHONE WAS. 550 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful Hose for wear Per Bair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs................$5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair ?$1.50 Box of Three Pairs..............$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair...... $1.50 Box of Three Pairs............$4.25  Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned very durable. All colors. Per Pair $1.00 Box of  Three Pairs.........$2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Snowcroft?s Blue Pine Extracts Spices, The Pick of the Season Full  o Flavor Shelled Walnuts VACUUM SEALED The Pick of the Season When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE